Here are the top 10 comments of the week on our digital platforms, as selected by our readers and the journalists who moderate nearly every comment. 1. I’ve been lucky to see many great sports moments in my life (Dave Wottle’s 1972 Olympic   victory might still be number one) including the Super Bowl two years ago. But, this is in the top three somewhere. The poise, the coaching, the team spirit and personal achievement that lets a comeback like this happen without really any one big sensational long td play (although Edelman’s catch  —   one of the greatest ever) or unfair call in their favor, cannot be touched in the    history of the SB. Without slighting any of the amazing players on their team, I couldn’t be prouder today to be a [Tom] Brady and [Bill] Belichick fan. It is about remarkable character, organization and discipline.  —   David H. Eisenberg in Smithtown, N. Y. reacting to an article about Super Bowl LI, won in overtime by the New England Patriots   over the Atlanta Falcons.  2. Anyone who knows Lady Gaga’s music knows it’s socially conscious, drilling the point home about love and acceptance. Pepsi knew this when they asked her to perform. So who is really sending the message? Bravo, Pepsi for not being afraid.  —   Rebecca Rutigliano Davis on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about Lady Gaga’s performance at the Super Bowl halftime show.  3. Buckle up, Mitch: Hell hath no fury like a woman warned.  —   J. Burkett in Austin, Tex. reacting to an article about Republican senators, led by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, who voted to silence Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, on the eve of Senator Jeff Sessions’ confirmation vote. This comment received more than 4, 500 reader recommendations. 4. It was appropriate that Senator Warren should take her seat after she continued reading an inflammatory, unproven information. We need a return to reason. I am glad to see that the Senate is still functioning amid such hysteria. Senator Warren is championing a hysterical and inflammatory approach toward moving forward. She is convinced of her own righteousness, and is unfit for office, as she and others like her are the bigots, filled with hate and unwilling to hear nor consider opposing points of view.  —   Let’s Be Grown Ups in Louisiana. 5. Do we really want judges making national security decisions? I think the Constitution and the statutes do give presidents broad powers over immigration. We liked that during President Obama’s term. I believe the ban is vulnerable on religious discrimination grounds, but it seems to me that people outside the U. S. do not have any Constitutional rights (unless they have visas or green cards which do give them some rights).  —   JT NC in North Carolina, reacting to an article about a federal appeals panel unanimously rejecting President Trump’s efforts to reinstate a ban on travelers entering the United States from seven largely Muslim countries. 6. I am currently 14 hours into labor with my first child, and this is all the pain relief I need.  —   Anne in San Jose, Calif. This comment received more than 3, 700 reader recommendations. 7. My husband and I still pay the rent for our daughters, one of whom is in culinary school, the other a college student. Yes they have jobs. Yes they pay some of their own bills, but they don’t make enough money to pay rent and we live too far from their schools for them to commute. They will eventually be in a position to be on their own, but for now, we are guaranteeing that they have the chance to succeed.  —   Dena Kendig on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about the nearly half of urbanites in their early 20s whose parents provide them assistance with their housing costs.  This comment received more than 340 likes.  8. Part of being an adult is living within your means  —   not within you and your parents’ means. I feel like the younger generation has missed out on that lesson.  —   Jesse in Houston. This comment received more than 170 reader recommendations. 9. If theaters are going to sell wine and special mixed drinks in souvenir cups, they must have potty parity.  —   Clio in Michigan, reacting to an article about the paucity of bathrooms in many old Broadway theaters and the ensuing long lines at intermission. 10. Mr. Darcy was more ballet dancer than beefcake. Nevertheless, she persisted.  —   Heather Bahniuk Martin on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about a study by British literature professors positing that Mr. Darcy, the romantic hero of “Pride and Prejudice,” would not have been as romantically appealing to modern eyes as Colin Firth, the actor who portrayed him in BBC’s 1995 adaptation. This comment received more than 270 likes. 