Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) commended   Donald Trump’s choices for his Cabinet thus far on Wednesday, calling Trump’s picks a team of conservative “all stars. ”[“I have been really pleased and very impressed with the Cabinet nominations of   Trump,” Cruz said, speaking to host Larry O’Connor of the Larry O’Connor Show on Washington, D. C.  WMAL.   “This is a serious cabinet, a cabinet of highly qualified individuals, it is a cabinet of strong conservatives. The   should be commended for bringing together a team of all stars, and I think that bodes really well, I hope, for the commitment to carry through on promises we made. ” Cruz and Trump had been fierce and bitter rivals in the Republican primary, and Cruz had declined to endorse Trump in his keynote address at the Republican National Convention. However, they later mended fences somewhat. Cruz also slammed the outgoing Obama administration’s moves against Israel at the United Nations, accusing lame duck President Barack Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry of “incredible animosity for Israel. ” He said that Obama, Kerry, and Vice President Joe Biden had taken a “disgraceful” parting shot at Israel. In response, Cruz said, he expected Congress to pass legislation reaffirming its earlier commitment to move the U. S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. He also reported that he had introduced legislation to cut funds to the Palestinian Authority, and that he and Sen. Lindsey Graham ( ) had introduced a bill to cut off funds to the United Nations until it rescinded UN Security Council Resolution 2334. UNSC Res 2334 declared Israel’s entire presence in the West Bank  —   which many Israelis call Judea and Samaria, and which Israel controlled after a defensive war in 1967  —   illegal, including the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem and Jewish religious and historical sites where Jews had lived for millennia. Cruz also spoke about his support for a constitutional amendment to create term limits for Congress. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. He was named one of the “most influential” people in news media in 2016. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.