Facebook will stop “fake news” using a similar algorithm as the platform’s one against “” according to CEO Mark Zuckerberg. [“In Zuckerberg’s view, according to Fast Company, tackling click bait required a rejiggering of the site’s algorithms, as assisted by users’ input,” reports Fortune. “The solution is similar to the approach the site is now taking to improve the situation around ‘information diversity or misinformation or building common ground’ —  euphemisms for the more popular conceptions of ‘filter bubbles,’ ‘fake news,’ and ‘echo chambers. ’”  “Now it’s not gone a hundred percent but it’s a much smaller problem than it used to be,” said Zuckerberg on the issue of  . “It’s not like they are problems that exist because there’s some kind of underlying, nefarious motivation. ” Last month, The Daily Mail reported that Facebook, which has become notorious for banning conservative and   users, as well as harmless comedy pages, has started to roll out  “fake news” features, which are run by partisan   services led by The Poynter Institute. “Users have reported seeing a   window when they attempted to share articles that were deemed inaccurate by   ” reported The Daily Mail. “Facebook itself will not decide what is real and what is considered fake. Instead, it is enlisting The Poynter Institute, a Florida journalism school, to sift through content. The Poynter Institute is the host of the International Fact Checking Network which bills itself as a ‘global alliance of fact checkers’. Its members include ABC News, Politico, The Associated Press, Snopes. com and The Washington Post. ” Facebook has also started placing “how to spot false news”   on user timelines. pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Nash (@MrNashington) April 12, 2017,  The term “fake news” has often been used to smear independent conservative news sources, such as Breitbart News, despite the fact that several news outlets have been exposed by Breitbart for publishing their own “fake news,” including the Independent, the Daily Beast, CNN (numerous times) the Atlantic, The New York Times, and The Washington Post. As previously reported, “Snopes   Arturo R. Garcia openly labels himself as a ‘progressive,’ attempted to compare Trump supporters to racists on Twitter, misattributed a quote about him to Breitbart News, and acts as the editor of ‘Racialicious’  —   ‘A blog about the intersection of race and culture’. ” Fellow Snopes   Bethania Palmer attempted to link Trump to the KKK, defended a racist professor, wrote numerous   articles for Raw Story  —   including two attempting to associate former Breitbart News executive chairman Stephen K. Bannon to domestic violence and white supremacy  —   and acts as a contributor for the “progressive”   Truthout. David Emery, another   and staff writer at Snopes, openly asked on Twitter whether there were “any   Trump supporters. ” Despite their clear political biases, all three were tasked with   political candidates over the 2016 presidential election under the guise of a neutral service. In February, Apple CEO Tim Cook, who financially supported Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton during the 2016 U. S. presidential election, called on tech companies to filter out “fake news,” while Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg also penned a plan to tackle “fake news” last month, highlighting his intention to roll out the   feature. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.