ATLANTA  —   It is 3 in the afternoon, and Anthony Palmer, 62, is behind the wheel of the   retrofitted and rebranded bread truck that is Anthony’s Rolling Store. Today his wares include vegetable oil, cornstarch,   oatmeal pies, ramen noodles, ice cream, Slim Jims, doughnuts, ChapStick, Dial soap, little cigars, chips, fruit punch and Saltine crackers. He has a sign declaring that he accepts food stamps. He has the program from his wife’s funeral in 2015 taped above his seat. The photograph on the cover shows Elizabeth Palmer on the edge of a   smile, as though acknowledging that life is not all drudgery and pain. Mr. Palmer pulls up in front of a Boys  Girls Club, close to where Techwood Homes, the nation’s first housing project, stood before it was demolished ahead of the 1996 Olympic Games. “Kids,” a woman cries, “the rolling store’s here!” The little ones come out in their school uniforms, twirling braids, choosing carefully from the bags of salty junk on display, hands reaching up to put their money up on the ledge of the little window by the back wheels. The teenagers are tall enough to lean into the window almost conspiratorially. They look like penitents at confession. Mr. Palmer, half obscured in the truck’s interior, calls each of them sir or ma’am. He teaches respect by respecting them first. A teenage boy asks for blunts. “No, sir,” the proprietor said. Mr. Palmer’s truck is among the last of a small and dying tradition in this section of black Atlanta, just west and northwest of downtown. In the 1970s and ’80s, there were rolling stores all over neighborhoods like English Avenue and Vine City, stocked with all of the fixings for a real supper, recalled Greg Morgan, the owner of a    convenience store in a notoriously rough area called the Bluff. “Fatback, hog maw, pig knuckles,” he said. “It was a thriving thing, and it was a moneymaking thing. ” Mr. Morgan has a number of theories as to why the rolling stores are disappearing, including   regulation from city officials and a hunch that home cooking is yet another dying tradition around here. More broadly, the disappearance of the rolling stores may simply be a result of the relentless and multifarious pace of change in Atlanta, one of those American cities that move and morph at the pace of the nation itself. It is a reality Mr. Palmer has embraced. He didn’t have much choice. But then again, who does? “When times change,” he said, “you’ve got to change with the times. ” He grew up in Herndon Homes, another public housing complex nearby, in a neighborhood that had gone from white to black by midcentury. His father was a barber, and when he died, Mr. Palmer, who had never learned to cut hair, opened his first convenience store in the old barbershop, across the street from the projects. Before that, Mr. Palmer had done menial labor on the nearby campus of Georgia Tech, earning a pittance. In his first weeks in retail, he said, “I was making almost $2, 500 a week  —   like, $1, 200 in food stamps and $1, 200 in cash. “I couldn’t believe it,” he continued. “I thought those times were going to last. ” They didn’t. He was forced to move the store to a less advantageous location. The competition grew stiff. He quit the store and opened a game room, set among the project’s apartments. Then the city bought out the game room and all of Herndon Homes in anticipation of tearing it all down. It was part of a larger project, now nearly fully realized, to replace the city’s traditional public housing. Many housing units have been replaced with communities that mix   and subsidized units, in an attempt to break up what many saw as concentrated warrens of dysfunction and poverty. In 2006, Mr. Palmer took the money the city had paid him for the game room and paid $5, 000 for the old bread truck. He bought a generator and a refrigerator, and stocked it with perishables  —   milk, eggs, bread, meat. He took the truck through Herndon Homes, before they were knocked down, and rolled daily among the new apartments  —   clean, brick, rectilinear, blandly handsome  —   where Techwood Homes used to be. It beat working behind a traditional counter, where he and his wife would have to stand from 7 a. m. to 11 p. m. every day. With the truck, he said, “I could go move around, make $200, $300 in a day, and then go lay down at home. ” In 2010, the Atlanta Housing Authority demolished Herndon Homes. Since then, the project has been a big empty lot, though there are plans to turn it into a new “urban community” with a fitness center and retail. Today, Anthony’s Rolling Store mostly moves around where the old Techwood project used to be. Some of the old families moved back to the subsidized homes. It seems that nearly everybody has his cell number. Mr. Anthony they call him. Mr. Anthony, my mother wants you to come by, they say. Mr. Anthony, do you have any   drinks? At his approach, they run down the stairs with their dollars. Derrick Butler, 42, who lives in the suburbs now, was outside one such building. His mother, who raised him in Techwood, just died. He ordered Nutty Buddies, a Big Dipper, a strawberry shortcake ice cream bar and oatmeal pies. To Mr. Butler, the rolling store is a reminder of the informal ways in the old Techwood: how somebody would be evicted and the kids would use the abandoned mattresses for wrestling matches. How his mother would go down to the community center and cook ribs, chicken and fish. It was by no means perfect, he said. “But it was family. My mother knew every drug dealer, every gang member and every police officer. ” They knew she would not abide them roping her son into trouble. Mr. Palmer drove away and said Mr. Butler’s mother was an exceptionally good woman, one of the few people he had extended credit to. A few minutes later, a young man was short $1. 25, and Mr. Palmer let it ride. “He usually pays me back,” he said. “He’s pretty good. ” The truck rolled on. These days, Mr. Palmer’s energy is waning. His generator broke, the refrigerator is out, and he no longer keeps milk and eggs. He talks, somewhat fancifully, about turning over the truck to a nephew and monitoring the business from home with an internet camera. He still grieves for his wife. She kept the books, and they loved each other. “She used to tell me all the time, ‘I don’t know what I’d do if you died first,’” he said. “I used to pay it no attention. Now that she’s gone, I know what she was talking about. ” His son, Anthony Jr. 30, is autistic, and Mr. Palmer spends most of his time looking after him. “There are a lot of stories about black men not taking care of their children,” he said. “But they don’t tell the stories about the good men taking care of their children. ” The truck does not roll as much as it used to  —   just a few hours a week. The Atlanta Falcons are building their new football stadium just down the road. It looks like a cut diamond, or like some futuristic building on Mars. Everyone is talking about neighborhood revitalization. Mr. Palmer can envision the day when the threadbare old houses like his are replaced by condos with fitness centers. It bothers him some. But sometimes he talks as though change in the city is a force too powerful to be judged, but rather something at which to marvel, like a storm. “Man, I done seen children grow up and have babies, and come back, and I don’t even know who they was,” he said. “They’ll say, ‘You know, I used to buy honey buns off your truck. ’”