Actress Emma Watson fired back at her online critics this week after coming under fire for a racy photoshoot in the latest issue of Vanity Fair. [The    Beauty and the Beast star featured on the April cover of the culture magazine, but a photograph inside caught the Internet’s attention the shot featured Watson looking right at the camera while posing in a crocheted white top with nothing on underneath.   Maturing from Hermione to Belle in @beautyandthebeast is a true    story for @EmmaWatson: ”I couldn’t care less if I won an Oscar or not if the movie didn’t say something that I felt was important for people to hear.” Read the full cover story at the link in bio. Photograph by Tim Walker. A post shared by Vanity Fair (@vanityfair) on Feb 28, 2017 at 10:02am PST,  On social media, critics demanded to know how Watson  —   a   feminist and a U. N. Goodwill Ambassador  —   could post for a photograph they claimed objectified her body. “Emma Watson: Feminism, feminism . . . gender wage gap . . . why oh why am I not taken seriously . . . feminism . . . oh, and here are my t*ts!” British journalist Julia   tweeted in what was one of several similar negative responses to the star’s photo. Other Twitter users called the actress a “hypocrite” and “not a real feminist. ” In an interview with Reuters, Watson said the being a feminist doesn’t mean that women can never pose topless. “Feminism is about giving women choice. Feminism is not a stick with which to beat other women with,” Watson told Reuters. “It’s about freedom. It’s about liberation. It’s about equality. I really don’t know what my t*ts have to do with it. It’s very confusing. I’m confused. Most people are confused. ” For her part, Watson said she was pleased with how the photoshoot came out. “The shot itself, I was honestly slightly taken aback by it,” she said. “We had been doing so many crazy things on that shoot, but it had really felt incredibly sort of artistic. I had been so kind of like creatively involved and engaged with Tim and I was so thrilled with how interesting and beautiful the photographs were. But yeah, people have asked, and I’ve gone, ‘Is there a controversy about this? ’” Watson stars in Disney’s upcoming   remake of Beauty and the Beast, due out in theaters this month.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum