President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night elicited strong responses, and not a small measure of surprise. The New York Times spoke with a few voters who were watching from either side of the partisan divide. Here are excerpts from their immediate reactions. Rolando Valdes, 63, in sales and marketing for an international logistics company Home: Miami Voted: for Mr. Trump. Thinks he is: becoming a “  statesman. ” I think it’s the first time he acted presidential, but he has to concentrate on a few items. There are too many things at one time. He will lose the Republican Senate and the House with too many things. With Obamacare and with the tax cuts  —   that should be enough for the first four years. The best thing I liked is when he said we have to take care of the United States first before we do things for other people. The United States has been trying to be all things to all people. In the meantime, we have left our own people behind. I am pumped up. I hope he can do it. There is way too much politics in all of this. And this guy, whether we like him or we don’t, he is the only guy who is an outsider, and today he acted like a politician. It’s a good thing, because we need to get these things done. _____ Susy   54, criminal defense lawyer Home: Miami Voted: against Mr. Trump. Thinks he is: unrealistic and a ball of contradictions. Who was that unmasked man? I think it sounded great, like a utopia. I don’t think it’s that simple. He’s saying he’s going to do all these wonderful things  —   cut taxes, raise the defense budget. He talks about a great health care system and covering   conditions, and also talks about the disaster of Obamacare. And he talks about saving the jobs of the coal miners, but also increasing natural gas production. It’s one or the other. I think it’s oversimplified. I don’t know that he believes what he is saying. It can’t all be true. It’s simplistic and unrealistic. I did not at all like that there is going to be a victims fund specially for people who are the victims of crime by illegal aliens. Victims of crime are victims of crime no matter how or who. I think that Trump thinks he is a lot greater than he actually is. _____ Hollie Gaudette, 31, real estate agent Home: Manchester, N. H. Voted: for Mr. Trump. Thinks he is: “a problem solver. ” I got goose bumps through a lot of it, but I think the last woman  —   I can’t recall her name, but who lost her husband just a couple weeks ago  —   you see her pain, you can see her pain that was probably a very challenging and emotional moment for her to be there. And at that moment, that whole room came together, and there was support from both sides. That was wonderful to see. That’s what we want to see. The reality is that the   goal is that everyone comes together to move forward and to make progress and improve the quality of life for Americans across the board. It doesn’t matter whether you’re left or right, he’s saying, “I’m here for all Americans, it doesn’t matter what color, race, any of that. ” Even the whole part about immigration, he’s saying we’re going to have a merit system, and we want everyone and anyone to come here and succeed. _____ Charles Lovett, 72, retired administrator in the federal Department of Education Home: Franconia, N. H. Voted: against Mr. Trump. Thinks he is: “a problem. ” I think it was a pretty good speech for him. He didn’t rage about anything. He didn’t go off message. And so it came across as a coherent speech and it’s intended to be a   agenda. And I think he achieved that. But I think his policies are mistaken in many regards, and I think it comes across in some of the language he used. For example, he said we intend to fight terrorism and win. And there’s an underlying trope or assumption there that one can win militarily, which I don’t think is possible, and I don’t think the military thinks is possible. He spoke of people that were ignored by the media or silenced by special interests, and then he pulled up a bunch of people whose relations have been killed by immigrant felons, and it was to me, I found it a kind of grotesque mischaracterization of the way the country is. I found the seeming rationality and conventionality of the agenda to be disturbing, because I think the underlying beliefs, which I believe are mistaken, will lead to taking apart things and breaking things  —   like alliances, like health care  —   that are easy to take apart but very difficult to put back together. _____ Sandra Wright, 68, retail merchandiser Home: Waterloo, Iowa Voted: for Mr. Trump. Thinks he is: a “total patriot. ” I was very, very impressed with how well he presented himself. I thought he acted and spoke as presidentially as I’ve seen him so far. I was very impressed with what a   speech he had. I think it was very authentic. I think the man’s a true patriot for our country. I liked it very much. I particularly liked his closing remarks. And I was able to reinforce my reasons for voting for him. He didn’t fall into trying to fight back against all the attacks that have been against him and everything. He talked about our country, and he talked about the important issues facing our country. And I think that’s what his job’s all about, and I think he thinks that, too. His job is to represent the U. S. in the world and to protect us and defend us according to our Constitution, and uphold our laws. And I think he’s doing a great job of it, just like I always have. So I loved it. I particularly liked his remarks  —   and his statement, his campaign speeches, his promises to us  —   to preserve our Constitution, to enforce the rule of law as it pertains to illegal immigration, regardless. We have to follow our rules of law in the United States. I’m very impressed with how he realizes that this country is in financial crisis and the only way for us to get back from that is to go back to our American dream times, and work hard and bring manufacturing and those things back to the United States  —   what this country was built on. _____ Liza Kate Boisineau, 38, musician and waitress Home: Richmond, Va. Voted: against Mr. Trump. Thinks he is: arrogant, smug and stubborn. I don’t even know where to start. It was really hard to watch. It started out sounding like he cared a bit. It almost felt a little bit hopeful. I was almost impressed. He maintained a calmness and an air of wanting to bring people together. He did talk a lot about the need for peace and how there should be less conflict. I didn’t understand how he could talk so much about that while wanting to increase military funding so much. Then he talked about a wall and buy American and hire American. It just seemed hypocritical. As soon as he turned to this movement starting in 2016 and him becoming president, that turned me off. It turned me off because that’s just what he’s been spouting for so long now. What is so great about him having been elected? I don’t think he could ever see himself as being wrong, which bothers me.