Risking his popularity with millions of Republicans and Trump supporters, action star and former wrestler Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson is on the warpath against Under Armour CEO, Kevin Plank, over his recent comments in support of President Donald J. Trump. [Plank recently drew the ire of liberals with his comments praising Trump in an interview on CNBC. The sports wear CEO said that Trump was “bold” and “decisive” and is a “real asset for the country. ”  Now the actor, who is also a spokesman for Under Armour’s “The Rock Line” of products, is moving to “distance himself” from CEO Plank’s comments. In a recent statement posted to Instagram, Johnson said he “welcomes” comments from fans who both support Trump and oppose him, but he felt that Plank was “divisive” in his comments. “Kevin Plank’s words on CNBC, but these are neither my words, nor my beliefs. His words were divisive and lacking in perspective,” Johnson claimed despite that all Plank did was praise Trump’s   policies. “The Rock” went on to say he feels that Plank put UA employees in a “situation. ” “Inadvertently creating a situation where the personal political opinions of UA’s partners and its employees were overshadowed by the comments of its CEO. A good company is not solely defined by its CEO. A good company is not defined by the athlete or celebrity who partners with them. A good company is not a single person. A good company is a team  …    ” Johnson wrote according to a Fox News report. Johnson said that the UA work force is “a diverse group” of people and he feels his responsibility and loyalty should be to the workers, not the company’s CEO. “Debate is healthy,” Johnson wrote. “But in a time of widespread disagreement, so is loyalty. I feel an obligation to stand with this diverse team, the American and global workers, who are the beating heart and soul of Under Armour and the reason I chose to partner with them. ” I appreciate and welcome the feedback from people who disagree (and agree) with Kevin Plank’s words on CNBC, but these are neither my words, nor my beliefs. His words were divisive and lacking in perspective. Inadvertently creating a situation where the personal political opinions of UA’s partners and its employees were overshadowed by the comments of its CEO. A good company is not solely defined by its CEO. A good company is not defined by the athlete or celebrity who partners with them. A good company is not a single person. A good company is a team, a group of brothers and sisters committed to working together each and every day to provide for their families and one another and the clients they serve. We don’t partner with a brand casually. I partner with brands I trust and with people who share my same values. That means a commitment to diversity, inclusion, community,   and some serious hard work. But it doesn’t mean that I or my team will always agree with the opinion of everyone who works there, including its executives. Great leaders inspire and galvanize the masses during turbulent times, they don’t cause people to divide and disband. My responsibility here is not only to the global audience we serve, but also to the thousands of workers who pour blood, sweat, and tears into making Under Armour strong. A diverse group of hardworking men and women who possess integrity, respect and compassion for one another and the world they live in. Debate is healthy. But in a time of widespread disagreement, so is loyalty. I feel an obligation to stand with this diverse team, the American and global workers, who are the beating heart and soul of Under Armour and the reason I chose to partner with them. My commitment is as real as my sweat and callouses that thicken daily. #CommittedToThePeople, A photo posted by therock (@therock) on Feb 9, 2017 at 10:36am PST, Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.