YORK, England  —   Having disclosed his “sin” of masturbation, Mark Stibbe, age 17, was ordered to strip naked and lean over a wooden chair in the garden shed of a lavish Hampshire mansion on the southern coast of England. Then came the first blow from a cane, its impact so ferocious that it sent the boy into a state of paralysis that lasted through at least 30 more strokes that left him collapsed on the floor, blood oozing down his legs. “I remember being so appalled by how vicious the first lash was that I couldn’t scream,” Mr. Stibbe, now 56 and an acclaimed Christian author, recalled on a recent afternoon in his Yorkshire home. “You’re in this tiny shed full of canes with this man. I felt utterly powerless. ” Until that day in the late 1970s, the man he says beat him, John Smyth, was known to Mr. Stibbe and his friends as a charismatic lawyer and influential evangelical Christian leader who regularly attended the Christian forum of their nearby boarding school, Winchester College, the oldest in Britain. Now, Mr. Smyth, 75 and keeping a low profile in South Africa, stands at the center of a widening scandal of sadistic abuse of dozens of boys over three decades that has ensnared the leader of the Anglican Church, the Most Rev. Justin Welby, archbishop of Canterbury, though only peripherally. The accusations against Mr. Smyth, which were first reported in February as part of a Channel 4 news investigation, are the latest in a string of   child abuse and sex scandals that have embroiled British institutions in recent months, exposing a long history of denial and  . The Hampshire police have begun an investigation into Mr. Smyth’s conduct, and more victims are speaking out in the hope that he will come forth in South Africa and face justice. The most recent account was from the bishop of Guildford, Andrew Watson, who said in a statement that he, too, had received a beating in the infamous garden shed that was “violent, excruciating and shocking. ” Mr. Stibbe said, “The sin that seemed to preoccupy him more than anything was masturbation, and he managed to persuade me that I needed to purge my body of that sin. ” Mr. Smyth would explain to the boys why they needed to be punished so severely. “He quoted from the Bible and told me I had to bleed for Jesus,” said another victim, who attempted suicide on his 21st birthday, after Mr. Smyth promised him “a special kind of beating” for the occasion. “When he was done, he would lean in towards me and put his face on my neck telling me how proud he was of me,” said the man, who asked that his name not be used because of the deeply personal nature of his remarks. The scale and severity of the abuses Mr. Smyth is accused of first surfaced in 1982, after the suicide attempt, which prompted an internal investigation by the Iwerne Trust, a Christian charity headed by Mr. Smyth that ran summer camps. He is said to have used his position at camps to win the trust of the boys he was to abuse. Five of the 13 victims who came forward in 1982 told investigators for the trust that they had received 12 beatings and about 650 strokes. The other eight said they had each been hit about 14, 000 times over a period of years. Some of the victims received up to 100 strokes at a time for masturbating, having indecent thoughts or looking at pornography  —   beatings that caused some to faint or bleed for up to three weeks, the trust found. The trust’s report concluded that all the cases were technically criminal offenses, and yet none were reported to the police. Instead, Mr. Smyth was removed from the trust in 1984 and sent to Zimbabwe, where he set up similar Christian summer camps for privately educated boys, the South African news media have reported. In 1997, Zimbabwe’s prosecuting attorney arrested Mr. Smyth on a charge of culpable homicide in the death of Guide Nyachuru, a    boy who was found dead at the bottom of the swimming pool of one of Mr. Smyth’s camps in Zimbabwe. Mr. Smyth denied any involvement in the drowning, calling it a tragic accident, and a year later all charges against him were dropped. In court documents in the case, he was accused of brutally beating five other boys at the camps there. “He would strip us naked and hit us with wooden bats to purge us of sin,” said one of the victims in Zimbabwe, who asked to remain anonymous for fear of reprisal by Mr. Smyth. In 2002, Mr. Smyth moved to South Africa, where new accusations of abuse have surfaced in news outlets in recent weeks. Last month, he was removed from the    in Cape Town, where there were claims of inappropriate behavior but not proof of criminal acts, the church said in a statement. In Britain, the claims against Mr. Smyth have struck at the heart of the Church of England after Archbishop Welby acknowledged that he had worked at the elite Christian holiday camps run by the Iwerne Trust where Mr. Smyth groomed the boys. The archbishop promptly issued an “unreserved and unequivocal” apology on behalf of the church, saying it should have done more to investigate the accusations that he said he had not been aware of until 2013. But several of the victims who spoke to The New York Times have accused members of the church and boarding school of covering up the scandal. They said the institutions had wanted to protect their reputation and some of their senior members, who had supported some of Mr. Smyth’s theological interpretations that the victims say led to the practice of violent atonement. The victims, now mostly in their 50s, described a pattern in which Mr. Smyth drew them into what seemed at first to be a warm and welcoming inner circle. They said he would select a small group of the brightest and handsomest teenage boys to join him at his nearby mansion for a traditional Sunday roast beef dinner, complete with roast potatoes, peas and gravy. When the meal was over, he allowed them to play games in his garden and swim in his private pool, creating a family environment that had been absent from the boys’ lives since they had been sent away to boarding school at the age of 7 or 8. He spent the summers befriending them in elite Christian camps, training them in his ultraliteralistic interpretation of the Bible and guiding them toward careers in the military and the church. But once he had won their trust and established a bond that many of them said had been akin to a    relationship, the nature of the meetings took a sinister turn. The victims said they had fallen so deeply under Mr. Smyth’s thrall that they hadn’t even dared to talk to one another about the horrors they had been subjected to in the shed. Many of them felt deep shame and said they had been resigned to the culture of abuse, which in their minds was a fact of life in the British education system at the time. None of the victims said they had been sexually assaulted, but one of them said Mr. Smyth had occasionally stripped naked and groaned in “spiritual ecstasy” during the lashings. The Smyth case has led other victims of vicious boarding school thrashings to reveal the abuse they endured. “The church’s reaction has been to paint Smyth like a   single incident, but it’s not,” said Giles Fraser, a priest and journalist, who recently wrote a column about the beatings he endured at boarding school. “It’s about a   that allows this to happen. This sort of muscular Christianity enforced by theology, education and the cane that dominated the public education system and produced your caricature Englishman  —   strong, emotionally incapable in some ways, reserved and superior,” he added. “I think the idea that this is just about Smyth is in itself a ” Mr. Fraser said, “and it’s because the church is desperate for people not to say how all of this grows out of theology. ”