Welcome to Breitbart News’s daily live updates of the 2016 horse race.[ —    All times eastern. 1:31: Sanders wins Utah: BREAKING: Bernie Sanders wins the Democratic caucuses in Utah. @AP race call at 1:30  a. m. EDT. #Election2016 #APracecall,  —   AP Politics (@AP_Politics) March 23, 2016,  1:30: With 3% reporting in Utah: #NEW 3% reporting in #Utah #GOP #caucus. @tedcruz 59% @JohnKasich 22% @realDonaldTrump 19%. Cruz may take all 40 delegates there. @CBSDFW,  —   Jack Fink (@cbs11jack) March 23, 2016,  12:41: Club for Growth endorses Cruz. Trump has said the group is out to get him because he wouldn’t donate to them. Club for Growth   trying to extort $1, 000, 000. 00 from me. Remember, I   NO! pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2016,  12:30: Tough road ahead for Cruz: Assuming Cruz wins UT by &gt50% he still needs to win 83. 33% of remaining delegates to hit 1, 237 (which he still claims he’’ll do)  —   Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) March 23, 2016,  12:25: Trump hopes GOP can unite for the Supreme Court: Hopefully the Republican Party can come together and have a big WIN in November, paving the way for many great Supreme Court Justices!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016,  12:04: Clinton says it was exciting to see the results come in from Arizona. She says this is a contest between “fundamentally different views” of “our country, our values, our future. ” She says the Brussels attacks should remind everyone how high the stakes are. She repeats her “smart, strong, and steady” leadership line. She says the last thing we need is “leaders who incite more fear. ” She says “in the face of terror, America doesn’t panic” and doesn’t build walls. She says what Trump, Cruz are suggesting is “wrong” and “dangerous. ” 12:02: In Seattle, Hillary Clinton gives a shout out to Rainier Beach’s (alums include Nate Robinson, Jamal Crawford, Doug Christie, et al.) basketball team. She says her campaign is about “growing and sharing” the promise of America. 11:52: They are from the same pool of people in the professional   class: The Stop Trump effort seems to be about as effective as Jeb’s campaign was.  —   Craig Robinson (@IowaGOPer) March 23, 2016,  11:50: Lots of voting problems in Utah: Trouble with online voting here in Utah tonight. https:  .  #UtahCaucus,  —   Jacob Soboroff (@jacobsoboroff) March 23, 2016,  11:45: Trump slams “incompetent Hillary. ” Incompetent Hillary, despite the horrible attack in Brussels today, wants borders to be weak and   let the Muslims flow in.  No way!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016,  11:40: In San Diego, Sanders says he has won ten primaries and caucuses ten months after the entered the campaign. He predicts he will win “a couple more” tonight. Sanders says there are   turnouts in Arizona, Utah, Idaho. He says “this campaign is doing as well as it is generating the kind of energy, excitement we’re seeing in San Diego and all over this country  …     because we are doing something very unusual in modern American politics —  we are telling the truth. ” Sanders says the truth is not always pleasant but “we cannot go forward as a nation unless we are prepared to confront the real issues facing our country. ” Convention Center says 8, 800 people in main room, 6, 000 in overflow room for @BernieSanders https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   KPBS News (@KPBSnews) March 23, 2016,  11:30: Trump guaranteed to win most delegates tonight: Trump gets all 58 Arizona delegates. He’s 498 delegates short, with 984 still unallocated. If he gets 51% of those, he’s the nominee.  —   Matt Viser (@mviser) March 23, 2016,  Trump win in AZ guarantees that he wins the most delegates tonight,  —   Shane Goldmacher (@ShaneGoldmacher) March 23, 2016,  11:25: Clinton projected to win Arizona: #BREAKING Hillary Clinton wins Arizona Democratic primary, the Associated Press and Washington Post report https:  .   —   USA TODAY (@USATODAY) March 23, 2016,  11:20: Trump Projected to win Arizona and all of the state’s 58 delegates. BREAKING: Donald Trump is the projected winner in the Arizona GOP primary. More: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   NBC News (@NBCNews) March 23, 2016,  Much bigger win than anticipated in Arizona. Thank you, I will never forget!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016,  11:13: ARIZONA (38% reporting): Trump: 45. 4, Cruz: 20. 2, Kasich: 10. 8, 10:41: NYPD attacks Cruz: Hey, @tedcruz are our nearly 1k Muslim officers a ”threat” too? It’s hard to imagine a more incendiary, foolish statement,  —   J. Peter Donald (@JPeterDonald) March 23, 2016,  10:37: What hasn’t backfired on the myopic professional     plodders? They are showing how incompetent they are this election cycle. Judging by response I’ve seen from Mormons on   this ad seems to be backfiring  …     https:  .   —   McKay Coppins (@mckaycoppins) March 22, 2016,  10:25: Long lines in Arizona: RT @AP_Politics: The Latest in #Election2016: Some voters in AZ wait as long as two hours to cast ballots. https:  .  https:    …      —   The Associated Press (@AP) March 23, 2016,  10:15: Like Boise State’s blue turf, Boise is an island of blue in a sea of Idaho red: Back in Boise Centre, it’s standing room only on the Bernie Sanders side. pic. twitter.   —   Bonnie Shelton (@BonnieKTVB) March 23, 2016,  9:59: Trump warns “Lyin’ Ted. ” Lyin’ Ted Cruz just used a picture of Melania from a G. Q. shoot in his ad. Be careful, Lyin’ Ted, or I will spill the beans on your wife!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016,  Cruz responds: Pic of your wife not from us. Donald, if you try to attack Heidi, you’re more of a coward than I thought. #classless https:  .   —   Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) March 23, 2016,  9:45: ACU Chair thinks Romney was auditioning to be the establishment’s pick at a potential convention and asks conservatives to fight against him: Mitt Romney is putting himself in play for the cleveland convention. Tonight at nrcc dinner he was auditioning. Conservatives fight this!  —   Matt Schlapp (@mschlapp) March 23, 2016,  9:43: Romney at NRCC dinner: Romney at NRCC dinner went on to say Donald Trump’s wives are foreign and there really are some jobs Americans just won’t do, per attendee,  —   Alex Moe (@AlexNBCNews) March 23, 2016,  Mitt Romney speaking at NRCC dinner to House Rs on Trump ? ing if actually Mormon jokes to ask his wives (says Ann will be upset   answer)  —   Alex Moe (@AlexNBCNews) March 23, 2016,  Mitt Romney tells House Rs at NRCC dinner the Republican nomination is still open and notes the GOP nominee will have a big impact #2016,  —   Alex Moe (@AlexNBCNews) March 23, 2016,  9:30: Cruz continues to complain about Kasich: ”We would’ve won Illinois without John Kasich,” Ted Cruz says.  —   Teddy Schleifer (@teddyschleifer) March 23, 2016,  9:15: New Yorker profiles Trump supporter who is of Mexican descent: Juan, John’s father, was born in Tijuana and, in 1963, immigrated to the United States with his parents and his brother. He was barely five years old. The family moved to Los Angeles, where John’s grandfather, Manuel, who had been a miner in Mexico, worked as a gardener. John’s grandmother, Carmen, put in long hours as a seamstress at a sweatshop. John’s father grew up to work “odd jobs,” until he settled as a bus driver for the local transit authority. He married his   sweetheart, a Latina from Los Angeles. After graduating from Cathedral, Castillo went to boot camp in San Diego: he joined the Marine Corps in 1996 and remained on active duty for five years, mostly working as a truck driver, carrying artillery. He served in Japan and Singapore, and left a few months before  . He felt at home with the Marines. There were “un montón” (a bunch) of Hispanics, he says now: “perhaps more than half. ” Castillo remembers the thrill of “loud, powerful, and motivating” weaponry. A tattoo on his right forearm reads “USMC. ” After the Marines, Castillo moved back to California and went to work for U. P. S. He’s now an inspector for an aerospace company. He was once a Democrat but is now a conservative and a Republican. The transition happened in the Marines. “The way they scream at you, it hardens you,” he says. “It makes you understand the importance of respecting the law. ” He also thinks travel helped him get rid of a “naïve” point of view that he associates with liberal politics. He believes in the importance of the Second Amendment. At   years old, Castillo speaks softly, wears   glasses, and has the build you’d expect from someone who once carried   shells for a living but now sits inside a cubicle. When we last met, in Eagle Rock, in northeast Los Angeles, he seemed concerned about crime in the area. “If you were allowed to carry a concealed weapon here, you could protect yourself,” he says. His Twitter bio reads “devout Catholic” and “lifelong pro wrestling fan. ” He’s also a fan of   radio, and he retweets Pope Francis and the W. W. E. with equal enthusiasm. And he is also a passionate supporter of Donald Trump.   9:14: Cruz challenges Trump to debate on O’Reilly’s show: . @tedcruz: Why don’t you ask Donald Trump to come here and defend himself pic. twitter.   —   POLITICO (@politico) March 23, 2016,  9:12: Enthusiasm for Trump in Arizona: 1 man tells me this is longest line he’s seen in his 27 yrs voting @ precinct in Scottsdale, chalks it up to Trump. pic. twitter.   —   Jacqueline Alemany (@JaxAlemany) March 22, 2016,  9:10: Sanders in Hollywood: Backstage at #Kimmel  —   NEW show tonight with Senator Bernie Sanders @SenSanders 11:35|10:35c #ABC pic. twitter.   —   Jimmy Kimmel Live (@JimmyKimmelLive) March 23, 2016,  And then @BernieSanders walked along Hollywood Boulevard that one time. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) March 22, 2016,  9:05: Cruz slamming Trump on his home turf of New York: Cruz: ”New Yorkers know Donald Trump. It’s a real advantage.   …     There’s a lot of conservatives in this state who want a real conservative.”  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 23, 2016,  7:00: Trump: Obama should leave Cuba: Pres. Obama should leave the baseball game in Cuba immediately  get home to   where a #POTUS, under a serious emergency belongs!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 22, 2016,  6:13: Piers Morgan: Time to Start Listening to Trump on Islamic Terrorism. Trump told me countries must tighten their borders in light of these terror attacks, especially to anyone related to an ISIS fighter in Syria. Is he so wrong? He told me he wants   Muslims to root out the extremists in their midst, expressing his bafflement and anger that someone like Abdeslam was able to hide for so long in the very part of Brussels he had previously lived. Is he so wrong? He told me America must make it far harder for illegal immigrants to enter the U. S. and thinks European countries should follow suit. Is he so wrong? He told me he believes there are now areas of many major European cities which have become poisonous breeding grounds for radicalized Islamic terror. Is he so wrong? I didn’t feel I was talking to a lunatic, as many seem to view Trump. I saw a guy, a   unfettered by PC language restraints, who is genuinely furious at the devastation which ISIS is wreaking, and seriously concerned for the security of his fellow Americans and indeed, the citizens of Europe. 6:05: Clinton to deliver counterterrorism speech at Stanford tomorrow: Just because:Sanders’ FP speech yesterday at a Salt Lake City high school Clinton’s FP speech will be at @Stanford https:  .   —   Kylie Atwood (@kylieatwood) March 22, 2016,  Hillary Clinton will have more to say about ISIS and he attack in Brussels tomorrow at Stanford pic. twitter.   —   Chris Megerian (@ChrisMegerian) March 22, 2016,  5:45: Trump says we have a “radical Islamic terrorism” problem like we’ve never had before. He says radical Islamic terrorists look at America’s leaders as “weak” and “stupid people. ” 5:39: Trump says “we can be nice about it” or “we can be politically correct about it” but we “are being absolute fools. ” Trump says we have to be “very vigilant” and “very strong” or “we’re not going to have a country left either. ” Trump blasts the “eggheads” who wrote international laws. Trump says Belgium attack was both a.) planned by Paris mastermind and b.) was in response to Paris mastermind being captured.  —   Phil Elliott (@Philip_Elliott) March 22, 2016,  Trump: ”They can blow people up in shopping centers.   …     Yet we have rulesregulations that we can’t w’board because it’s on the tough side”  —   Phil Elliott (@Philip_Elliott) March 22, 2016,  5:37: Cruz again slams Obama: Cruz: ”tragic that the president of Egypt shows more courage confronting radical Islamic terrorism than does” Obama https:  .   —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 22, 2016,  5:36: When asked if he still favors a temporary ban on Muslim immigration, Trump tells CNN’s Wolf Blitzer, “we have no choice. ” He blasts “disastrous” NYC Mayor de Blasio for doing a “terrible job” and says America right now is “impotent. ” 5:05: Trump’s  numbers continue to improve among Republicans. He can do the same thing in a general election with the general election electorate like Reagan in 1980: Trump’s Image Among Republicans Continues to Tilt Positive  …     https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   GallupNews (@GallupNews) March 22, 2016,  4:50: Speaking to Anderson Cooper on CNN, Cruz says today “underscores the need for a    who is focused” on keeping America safe. He blasts Obama for being politically correct. When pressed on his “policing” Muslim neighborhoods comment, Cruz says we have seen for seven years that being afraid to name the threat of “radical Islamic terrorism” has made us vulnerable. Cruz says that does not mean targeting Muslims. It means targeting radical Islamic terrorists before they carry out acts of terrorism. He cites Bloomberg’s efforts in New York and says de Blasio was “foolish” for ending it. Cruz says we have to target neighborhoods where radicalism festers like you would a neighborhood with a high level of gang activity. When Cooper asks Cruz if he can name a neighborhood he would like to see policed for radicalism, Cruz cites Bloomberg’s program in New York. When Cooper asks how he would identify communities that need patrolling, Cruz gives a vague answer of focusing on communities where there are increased “incidents of radical Islamic terrorism. ” 4:35: CNN Poll: 60% of Republicans believe the candidate with the most support in the   should get the nomination if no candidate has the majority of delegates after the first round of voting. 4:30: Will some GOP delegates be for sale at a potential contested convention? ’Enormous pressure’: Could GOP delegates be bought, wooed? https:  .  @AdamShawNY,  —   Fox News Politics (@foxnewspolitics) March 22, 2016,  4:25: Clinton attacking Sanders more aggressively on trade and   bank: Hillary Clinton says Bernie Sanders ”joined arms” with the Tea Party on the   Bank. Full comment: pic. twitter.   —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) March 22, 2016,  Clinton criticizing Sanders on trade policies. ”We are not living in a world where we are alone  …     I want us to compete and win.”  —   Chris Megerian (@ChrisMegerian) March 22, 2016,  4:05: Clinton says she’s not the flavor of the month: ”I am not the latest flavor of the month,” Clinton says on union advocacy in WA. ”I have been doing this work day in and day out for years.”  —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) March 22, 2016,  3:39: Trump campaign manager might sue BuzzFeed: Lewandowski might sue Buzzfeed over @mckaycoppins and @RosieGray piece https:  .   —   Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) March 22, 2016,  3:30: Debbie   calls Cruz a “disgrace. ” . @DWStweets issues a statement on Cruz calling for police patrols of Muslim neighborhoods: ”Ted Cruz is a disgrace.” pic. twitter.   —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 22, 2016, Cruz clarifies comments: JUST IN: The Cruz campaign clarifies comments on law enforcement in Muslim neighborhoods  —   pic. twitter.   —   Betsy Klein (@betsy_klein) March 22, 2016,  3:25: Sanders at Northern Arizona: Class is out at Northern Arizona U  …     Pandemonium ensues #CNNElection pic. twitter.   —   Elizabeth Landers (@ElizLanders) March 22, 2016,  3:15: Trump vows to stop Islamic terrorism: My heart  prayers go out to all of the victims of the terrible #Brussels tragedy. This madness must be stopped, and I will stop it.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 22, 2016,  3:01: Kasich campaign courting donors like Meg Whitman in California: Looking forward to being in Los Angeles for @johnkasich,  —   John Weaver (@JWGOP) March 22, 2016,  2:59: Obama talks terror attacks on ESPN: Obama invokes ISIL when asked question about Brussels attack on ESPN, reiterates vow to support Belgium,  —   Justin Sink (@justinsink) March 22, 2016,  Obama talking terror attacks now @ESPN pic. twitter.   —   Rick Klein (@rickklein) March 22, 2016,  Obama doing interview on ESPN it appears pic. twitter.   —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) March 22, 2016,  Jeter greets President Obama Video  —   via @ESPN App https:  .   —   Reimillan (@Reimillan) March 22, 2016,  2:30: In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, Gary Johnson predicts Republican candidates who try to win the Libertarian nomination will get crushed. Gary Johnson has a message for Republicans flirting with the idea of taking over the Libertarian Party to run an   candidate for president: Bring it on. Mr. Johnson, the former New Mexico governor who won 1. 3 million votes as the Libertarian presidential nominee in 2012 and is running again this year, said in an interview that he’d welcome an intraparty challenge from a Republican, and predicted he’d wipe the floor with whatever outsider tries to infiltrate his party. “Not to say that that person doesn’t have a chance, but they’re going to be running as a Republican in the Libertarian primary,” Mr. Johnson said in a Monday interview at The Wall Street Journal’s Washington bureau. “I think they get shoveled out the door. But, you know, it would be great to have somebody really high profile show up and run for the Libertarian nomination. That would be terrific. ” 2:10: Hillary: Closing Borders Not Option in Fighting Terrorism: . @HillaryClinton on options to fight terrorism: ”Closing our borders is not one of them.” pic. twitter.   —   MSNBC (@MSNBC) March 22, 2016,  2:05: New results from the Virgin Islands: Virgin Islands GOP releases new caucus results: —   Rubio: 2 delegates —   Uncommitted: 2 —   Cruz: 1 —   Trump: 1,  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 22, 2016,  Yob responds! ””The Chairman is not a dictator and can not unilaterally break the USVI GOP rules” pic. twitter.   —   Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) March 22, 2016,  The USVI GOP statement: pic. twitter.   —   Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) March 22, 2016,  2:00: Cruz tells Beck we don’t need “pep talks” from Trump: . @TedCruz to @GlennBeck, on Trump response to #Brussels: ”We don’t need a pep talk. What we need is serious leadership that keeps us safe.”  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 22, 2016,  Flashback: Glenn Beck on Cruz: “It was like conservative erotica coming out of his mouth. ” Here’s Glenn Beck, earlier today in Utah, describing how it was like ”conservative erotica” when he first met Cruz: pic. twitter.   —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 19, 2016,  1:55: Sanders taking the   route: Sanders on Cruz: We are fighting a terrorist organization, a barbaric org that is killing innocent people. We are not fighting a religion,  —   Katy Tur (@KatyTurNBC) March 22, 2016,  1:52:   career tacticians whose gravy trains will end need a reason to con donors out of more money this election cycle and send press releases (or get on television) to mainstream media journalists whose   they crave about all else: Rep Lou Barletta: I am discouraged that certain members of the GOP have spent more time trying to figure out how to stop Donald Trump,  —   Chad Pergram (@ChadPergram) March 22, 2016,  1:45: Yawn. Career creature of the Beltway will give another uninspiring speech where he reads meaningless paragraphs (all approved by focus groups) and sounds like a career staffer. Only the myopic “Smart Set” folks who cheered when Rubio started hurling insults at Trump —  and did not realize he was torpedoing his campaign —  will cheer. What have the stale     Council for a New America dweebs done to win over voters? Not much. Interesting add for @SpeakerRyan tomorrow   …     Only going to continue to fuel #2016 speculation  …     pic. twitter.   —   Alex Moe (@AlexNBCNews) March 22, 2016,  1:39: Clinton: ‘Wrong and Dangerous’ to say ‘Radical Islamic Terrorism’ On CNN, Clinton refers to Islamic terrorism as “radical Jihadist terrorism” that is “clearly rooted in Islamic thinking. ” She says it “hast to be contested” by Muslims but says it is a “mistake” to “do anything that implies we are at war with an entire religion. ” Clinton says it is “wrong and dangerous” to say “radical Islamic terrorism. ” She says the “debate about semantics misses the point. ” Clinton, when asked about Trump’s claim that she lacks stamina, says she doesn’t want to respond to Trump’s “absurd” and “constant stream of insults. ” She says the next president must have “steady, strong, smart minds and hands. ”     1:14: Kasich takes a   swipe at Cruz’s response to Brussels: ”We are not at war with Islam, we are at war with radical Islam.”  —  @JohnKasich on @tedcruz’s comments on patrolling Muslim neighborhoods,  —   Alex Romano (@alexromano) March 22, 2016,  12:47:   : Rudy Giuliani says he’ll probably endorse Donald Trump https:  .   —   Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) March 22, 2016,  12:36: Endorsement: Rep. Lou Barletta,   has endorsed Donald Trump for president. Second PA House Republican, after Tom Marino, to do so.  —   Ben Siegel (@benyc) March 22, 2016,  12:30: AIPAC admonishes Trump for criticizing Obama during his speech: Less than a day after Donald Trump drew enthusiastic applause and standing ovations from the crowd at the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the group’s leadership took to the same stage Tuesday morning to deliver a strong rebuke of his disparaging remarks on the man he hopes to follow into the White House. “We say unequivocally that we do not countenance ad hominem attacks, and we take great offense to those that are levied at the president of the United States of America from our stage,” AIPAC president Lillian Pinkus said. “While we may have policy differences, we deeply respect the office of the president of the United States and our president, Barack Obama. We are disappointed that so many people applauded a sentiment that we neither agree with nor condone. ” 12:17: Trump flashes back to his Fox Biz interview about Brussels:  Watch this clip from earlier this year. Time and time   I have been right about terrorism. It’s time to get tough! A video posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on Mar 22, 2016 at 9:12am PDT,  12:14: Ben Carson will still be on some primary ballots in Washington state. Paperwork wasn’t filed in time to take Carson’s name off #Spokane ballots. Kasich, Cruz and Trump will also be on the ballots.  —   Kip Hill (@kiphillreporter) March 22, 2016,  12:10: Via the Associated Press  —   11:50: Hillary reinforcing sexist stereotypes  —   uses Brussels to scold via subtweet. We can be strong and smart without advocating torture or bigotry. We will not let fear dictate our foreign policy.  —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) March 22, 2016,  11:41: Trump claims vindication, as his remarks on Brussels being a hotbed of terror were once mocked by the media “pros. ” I have proven to be far more correct about terrorism than   and it’s not even close. Hopefully AZ and UT will be voting for me today!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 22, 2016,  His remarks in January: 11:31: Cruz attacks Trump’s NATO stance in light of Brussels. Via CNN: 11:14: Trump is not a fan of Obama’s Cuba speech. President Obama looks and sounds so ridiculous making his speech in Cuba, especially in the shadows of Brussels. He is being treated badly!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 22, 2016,  11:10: Rep. Mia Love endorses Cruz in Utah. Today we welcome Utah’s superstar Congresswoman @MiaBLove to the #CruzCrew with her endorsement of @tedcruz. #onlycruz,  —   Ron Nehring (@RonNehring) March 22, 2016, 