A driver in California who claimed to control the steering of his car with   powers told police he crashed into a vehicle being driven by an Afghanistan war veteran in the name of Allah, reports Fox 26 News. [Scott Alcala, the veteran, declared that the collision amounts to a terrorist act and wants the driver, Ameer Abbaf Fakhraldin, off the streets.  “He was just trying to target as many people as he could,” he explained. “He was just trying to cause a pile up. It wasn’t me personally. It was as if someone were to throw a bomb in the middle of downtown, it’s no different, it’s the same thinking. ” “Coming back from Afghanistan, thinking I’m on home soil I’m safe now  …     just shouldn’t have to worry about something like that, you know,” he also said. In explaining why he crashed into the veteran’s automobile, Fakhraldin also cited what he described as Republican Presidential Nominee Donald Trump’s mistreatment of minorities. Alcala was on his way from Fresno to San Jose to play golf with his father when the disturbed driver slammed into him. “I saw the Suburban coming right at me about to   right into the driver door and I thought that was it. A second later I turned my head and just smashed into the barrier,” said the Veteran. Fox News reports: Alcala said that when an   police officer went to talk to Fakhraldin, he said that he caused the collision in the name of Allah. He also cited Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s treatment of minorities for why he caused the crash. Fakhraldin told an officer at the scene that he estimated his own speed to be 200 mph and that he caused the crash using   powers to control the steering. The officer said Fakhraldin showed no remorse, Fox 26 reported, citing the police report. Jihadi groups such as al Qaeda and its rival the Islamic State ( ) have urged supporters to target military personnel. Various “kill lists” containing personal information about U. S. service members, government employees, and civilians have been published online by jihadists. It remains unclear how the Fakhraldin chose Alcala as a target or if he was affiliated with any specific Islamic extremist group. In July, a jihadist in France plowed a   truck down Nice’s Promenade des Anglais and into a crowd assembled for a July 14 fireworks display, killing 86 and wounding more than 200. His victims include children. The carnage ended when police killed the armed truck driver, Tunisian Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, after he drove onto a sidewalk for more than a mile. Bouhlel is believed to have been inspired by ISIS, which claimed responsibility for the attack. Both   and ISIS have urged jihadists to carry out vehicular assaults against Western countries in the absence of more conventional weapons.