A report claims that Islamic State ( ) terrorists have impregnated 31, 000 women and girls inside their Caliphate. [The Quilliam Foundation, a UK think tank, released its Children of Islamic State report on Monday.  “That 31, 000 women are pregnant in the ‘caliphate’ is very worrying indeed,” stated senior researcher Nikita Malik. “It is imperative that the international community takes a proactive rather than a reactive approach when focusing on these children. ” The Islamic State has used social media to recruit women to help it populate its Caliphate since invading Syria and Iraq in the summer of 2014. Many of the women come from the UK, Australia, and the United States. “ISIS is recruiting these women in order to be baby factories,” Mia Bloom of the Center for Terrorism and Security Studies at the University of Massachusetts Lowell said in September 2014. “They are seeing the establishment of an Islamic state and now they need to populate the state. ” Other women openly volunteer to engage in jihad   or sexual jihad, with the ISIS fighters. The terrorists assure the women that premarital sex is acceptable because sexual jihad is a legitimate form of holy war. Malaysian authorities believe more than 50 Malaysians are with ISIS, many women. “These women are believed to have offered themselves in sexual comfort roles to Isis fighters who are attempting to establish Islamic rule in the Middle East,” said one source in Malaysia, adding, “This concept may seem controversial but it has arisen as certain Muslim women here are showing sympathy for the Isis struggle. ” In Raqqa, Syria, the terrorists created a marriage center where women register to become a wife for a jihadist. The jihadists also force women in the conquered towns into these positions against their will. Jihadists kidnap married and unmarried women and force them into sex slavery. The terrorists then use the resulting children in their efforts to spread terror and murder. They place the children in front during public executions, including stonings, crucifixions, and beheadings. “Children not only get desensitised to violence, but they also deem these practices as normal, and eventually defend them,” continues the report. “Children have been seen accompanying prisoners to their death and, in one example, distributing knives to adults before a mass beheading. ” ISIS terrorists have released pictures of their children in the past. One image published online showed a baby surrounded by grenades and Kalashnikov rifles. Another displayed a    with a Kalashnikov rifle in his lap. “Firstly, children are a completely blank slate and so don’t have the cognitive abilities or the adult   processes, so they can be manipulated because they are vulnerable to do all kinds of things,” said Malik. “The families play a key role in doing this as well. Mothers play a key role: they read story books on martyrdom to their children at night. The families are teaching them what is right and wrong. This purity angle is very interesting. ” The Islamic State then enrolls these children, some as young as six, into training camps. One video, titled “School of Jihad,” shows children learning how to behead and torture “infidels” and handle weapons. The group also released a video in August 2014 with Omar   a prominent Chechen leader in the Islamic State. One of the oldest kids shows his ability to quickly take apart the gun, reattach it, and load the ammunition. After that, the kids hide behind a wall and perform a mock military exercise for  .