A group of companies and   advocates say Facebook is “actively suppressing their posts,” thereby diminishing their visibility in Americans’ social media networks. [“Content that would normally reach our nearly one million followers has steadily dropped to a fraction of what it once was, despite our page’s continual growth of new followers,” said a statement from Rob Russo, the social media manager for Alien Gear Holsters, one of the companies now pushing back against Facebook.  “We have over 700, 000 likes on our Facebook page and tremendous reader response to our material,” said Concealed Nation publisher Brandon Curtis. “We didn’t change a thing about the way we post [but] in February our Facebook traffic fell off a cliff,” he said. “It sank by nearly 50 percent in that first month. ” Curtis said he contacted Facebook and was told his company’s page was “suppressed” due to “too much commercial content. ” USA Carry’s Luke McCoy saw his traffic take a sharp fall as well. McCoy said he “emailed the same [Facebook] account manager” and was told “people were claiming [USA Carry’s] content was overly promotional. ” Curtis has reached out to Facebook repeatedly over the problem and has made clear that many of the gun groups that have been singled out have Facebook content that is “purely editorial. ” Yet the coalition says the suppression continues. Breitbart News previously reported that Facebook shut down author Brandon Maddox’s account because of the use of the word “firearms. ” Maddox was selling a book that provides instructions for getting a Federal Firearms License (FFL) a phrase that includes the word “firearms. ” His post was not an for firearms sales, but his account was shut down under Facebook’s policy against gun sales. Other groups and outlets pushing back against Facebook include Gun Owners of Americas and The Truth About Guns. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.