A freight train slammed into a charter bus full of people on their way to a casino on Tuesday afternoon in Biloxi, Miss. killing at least four onboard and injuring many more, the authorities said. The bus, which was near its destination in Biloxi on a trip from Austin, Tex. appeared to have gotten stuck on the tracks at a railroad crossing, the Biloxi Police Department said. About 50 people, including many members of a senior center in Texas, were on the bus when the crash occurred, around 2:10 p. m. and almost every passenger appeared to have some injuries, said the police chief, John Miller. “It’s a terrible tragedy,” Chief Miller said at a news conference, adding that the accident was the worst of its kind that he could recall in Biloxi. “It is a terrible, chaotic scene right now, but we have it under control. ” A witness who called 911 and ran to the accident scene described a horrific sight: the locomotive, still running, tearing into the driver’s side of the bus and knocking people out of their seats. “I went out there, and I started hearing sirens,” said Bradley Raye, a manager at Hammett’s Auto Electric, about 200 feet from where the accident occurred. Passengers on the bus, which was operated by the   company Echo Transportation, said they were traveling from Austin, Chief Miller said. One passenger, Jim DeLaCruz, said the bus got stuck trying to cross the tracks, and the driver yelled for everyone to exit as the train barreled toward them. “We were trying to get off ourselves,” Mr. DeLaCruz said in a video interview with The Sun Herald in Biloxi. He escaped uninjured, but his wife appeared to have a leg injury and walked away from the accident with a firefighter tending her. “The train just kept coming and kept coming,” he said. Many of the passengers were from the Bastrop Senior Center, about 30 miles southeast of Austin. They had departed on Sunday morning for a   trip along the Gulf Coast, said Barbara Adkins, the center’s president. On Tuesday afternoon, the group was heading to a casino in Biloxi before stopping in New Orleans. Ms. Adkins said it appeared that some of the passengers were relatives traveling with members of the senior center, which hosts music, entertainment and art events for its members during the week. Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas and his wife, Cecilia, said they were upset by the crash. “Cecilia and I are deeply saddened by the loss of life in this tragic accident, and we extend our prayers to the families who lost loved ones and to all those affected by this tragedy,” they said in a statement. John Ferrari, the chief executive of the TBL Group, which operates Echo Transportation, said he was still gathering information about the crash. Echo, which has a fleet of 113 vehicles, mostly buses and vans, says on its website that it provides travel for schools, tour groups and corporations. Its vehicles have been involved in six crashes in the past two years, but only one resulted in injuries, federal records show. The freight train, which was operated by CSX, was en route to Mobile, Ala. from New Orleans and had three locomotives and 52 cars, the company said. No one on the train was injured. “Our thoughts are with all involved,” the company said in a statement. The CSX rail line originates in New Orleans and runs along the Gulf of Mexico into Mississippi before turning north in Alabama toward Mobile. In Biloxi, the railroad cuts through the southern part of the city, near homes, an industrial area and several casinos. The speed limit for trains there is 45 miles per hour. The crossing at Main Street, which has two gate arms with flashing lights, has been the site of several crashes in recent years, according to federal records. In 2014, a train barreled into a   that had gotten stuck on the tracks, injuring a person on the train. Two months ago, the driver of a Pepsi delivery truck jumped out of the cab when his truck was stuck in the way of a train. A spokesman for CSX said the company would know more about the accident, including the speed of the train at the time of the crash, after its event recorder was reviewed.