Just weeks before the outrageous mass sexual assault attacks on New Year’s Eve against women in Cologne and Hamburg by what witnesses described as men of North African and Middle Eastern descent, Germany’s interior minister issued a sunny report about crime and the massive influx of over million refugees into Germany in 2015. [It’s another example of how feckless response by Western officials to the African and Middle Eastern refugee crisis has led to a lack of security for the citizens of countries taking in Muslim migrants.  In October 2015, German Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière ordered a report to “dispel rumors about an increase in criminal acts in Germany. ” When the report was released in   de Maizière commented: “The majority (of refugees) do not come here with the intention of committing crimes. They come to Germany to find protection and peace. ” Just seven weeks after that report was issued, police in Cologne, Germany say a mob of over 1, 000 drunk and aggressive North African and Arab men between the ages of 15 and 35 years old went on a sexual assault and robbery rampage against German women at the city’s Central Station. Over 120 complaints were issued, where women say that they were groped, molested, or even raped by the men. German women in the cities of Hamburg and Stuttgart were also targeted on New Year’s Eve for robbery and sexual assault by gangs of African and Arab immigrants. News of the attacks took days to surface and have caused outrage and protests in Germany. German Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere’s response to the Cologne sex attacks was to criticise the police. A report on BBC News says that Mr. de Maiziere —  who had assured Germany just weeks earlier that immigrants did not pose a crime threat —  said “The police shouldn’t work like this. ” German police, however, responded with the Cologne police chief Wolfgang Albers describing what happened as “a completely new dimension of crime”. Police Union Chief Rainer Wendt blamed a lack of resources  —   a serious problem in a post migrant invasion Germany  —   which meant that the Cologne force had been unable to clear the square properly. Mr Wendt was critical of the Berlin government, arguing that federal officers who had the task of policing the station itself had been deployed in recent months to strengthen border security in Bavaria. As Breitbart News has reported, at the same time women were sexually assaulted by Muslim immigrants across Germany, German Chancellor Angela Merkel used her New Year’s address (now subtitled in Arabic) to urge “solidarity” with the migrants. Mrs. Merkel has expressed “disgust” over the Cologne attacks. Similar sex attacks have been reported to have been carried out by Muslim immigrants in countries such as Denmark, Sweden and Norway. As the New York Times reported in a story that came up prior to New Year’s Eve attacks: Fearful of stigmatizing migrants as potential rapists and playing into the hands of   politicians, most European countries have avoided addressing the question of whether men arriving from more conservative societies might get the wrong idea once they move to places where it can seem as if anything goes. But, with more than a million asylum seekers arriving in Europe this year, an increasing number of politicians and also some migrant activists now favor offering coaching in European sexual norms and social codes. The “coaching” consists of classes explaining to Muslim immigrants, some of whom have never seen a woman outside of a hijab, helpful lessons such as “To force someone into sex is not permitted in Norway, even when you are married to that person. ” Following the New Year’s Eve attacks, Cologne Mayor Henriette Reker said a “better explanation” was needed to explain to migrants that they should not rob, molested and rape women. The Independent quotes the mayor as saying: “We need to prevent confusion about what constitutes happy behavior and what is utterly separate from openness, especially in sexual behavior. ” President Obama has aggressively advocated bringing more Middle Eastern and African refugees into the United States, while pressure groups funded by   activists like George Soros continue to pile pressure on European governments to do the same.