Ann Coulter sat down with Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos for an episode of The Milo Yiannopoulos Show to discuss Donald Trump, the size of the Republican candidate’s genitalia, and why the Republican establishment is full of “pussies. ”[  Speaking about Donald Trump, Coulter was critical of the GOP frontrunner’s recent social media behavior, specifically his recent retweet of a    comparison of his wife and Sen. Ted Cruz’s wife, Heidi. “It’s like constantly having to bailout your    son from prison,” Coulter said. “I’m a little testy with our man right now,” Coulter continued. “Our candidate is mental, do you realize our candidate is mental?”  “A presidential candidate, and not just a presidential candidate but someone who’s probably going to get the nomination is saying ‘your wife’s ugly and my wife’s hot,’” Yiannopoulos responded. “I think that’s amazing. ” Coulter claimed that the Heidi Cruz retweet was the   sin committed by Trump so far during the campaign, after he mocked Sen. John McCain for being a prisoner of war in July 2015. Yiannopoulos held that Donald Trump’s trashiness is part of his appeal: “The trashier [Trump] gets, the more I love him. ” Coulter didn’t refrain from harsh criticisms of the Republican establishment, accusing the party of “forcing their candidates to take suicidal positions” because “their default position is groveling. ” She suggested that the party’s leaders were “pussies” for refusing to embrace Donald Trump despite his successes in the primaries. Coulter and Yiannopoulos also playfully made guesses about the size of the GOP candidates’ penises (Trump  —   “massive” Rubio  —   “tiny” Kasich  —   “medium but curvy”) as well as the role that each of them might play in a Trump White House. While Coulter would handle immigration, Yiannopoulos would return to the White House Press Briefing Room as Press Secretary. Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or on Facebook. 