Monday on his radio show, conservative talk show host Rush Limbaugh reacted to a report based on data highlighted in the Breitbart editor at large Peter Schweizer’s documentary “Clinton Cash,” which is based on his 2015 book “Clinton Cash,” showing Democratic presidential   Hillary Clinton has pulled in $21 million for speeches over the past two years.  According to Limbaugh, the report is “devastating” for her presidential bid given how some Democratic base voters will react to the perception that she been “bought” by foreign governments, Wall Street and corporate America. Partial transcript as follows: There’s something devastating. I  …     Folks, this is one of those things that the   are not gonna make a big deal of it, by design, but it’s gonna get out there.  And this is gonna be one of these things that if Hillary loses, this is gonna be one of the reasons that people will eventually learn was a reason,  .  They’re kind of ignoring it now, but if she loses, and they’re doing the postmortems, they’re gonna go back to stories like this. Do you realize that this woman, in the last two years, has made $21 million delivering speeches, mostly to banks?    mil!  I don’t think there’s a speech for less than $225, 000 on the list, and they’re all listed.  Some of them are as high as $400, 000, but it’s generally in that range of 225, 250, up to $400, 000.  It’s every bank you’ve ever heard of )and then some) and every hedge fund that you’ve ever heard of (and then some).  Every investment house that you’ve ever heard of. It’s $21 million in two years, speeches alone. Not Bill.  This is Hillary.  So what’s the big deal?  Well, most of these speeches are delivered before Wall Street firms.  Read: Banks.  Who do Bernie Sanders supporters despise?  Banks.  Corporate America.  Hillary Clinton is owned by corporate America.  Hillary Clinton’s presidency, if it ever happens, has already been bought by corporate America, and who knows what the foreign donors are and how many there are. But that’s a $100 million that has been given to the Clinton Crime Family Foundation. The Clinton presidency has already been bought  —   meaning policies, initiatives, what have you, have already been bought  —   by foreign governments, foreign entities, and United States corporate entities and banks.  And this is the kind of thing that your average   Democrat voter is going to learn.  There are enough Democrat websites out there ticked off at Hillary over this they’re gonna report it.  The   won’t. They won’t make a big deal of it, but some of the other   blogs will. Democrat voters are gonna hear about it, and it’s gonna tick ’em off. Follow Breitbart. tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideo