  internet personality BakedAlaska, real name Timothy Treadstone, has finally received approval to release Build the Wall: The Game on iOS. [The game encourages players to stack bricks and build the biggest border wall possible, all while trying to stop illegal immigrants from climbing over before a timer runs out.  It also includes various extras, such as Trump Steaks (which attract bald eagles to swoop down and carry the illegal immigrants away) and an array of   personalities such as Mike Cernovich, Alex Jones, and Treadstone himself.  While the Android version of the game also includes Pepe the Frog, Treadstone was forced to remove the Internet meme after two unsuccessful attempts to submit the game to the Apple App Store with Pepe in it. “Everyone loves the app! It’s a great app, unless you’re an easily triggered leftist,” claimed Treadstone to Breitbart Tech. “I’ve been called disgusting, racist, and xenophobic over this game. But you can be the judge, I don’t sympathize with people who are offended by cartoon frogs in video games. ” “Your app includes content that many users would find objectionable and offensive,” claimed Apple in their rejection letter of the game last month. “Specifically, your app includes Pepe the Frog character. ” Apple rejected the game for a second time after Treadstone left in Pepe’s silhouette, and only accepted the game after the popular internet meme had been removed altogether. “The hypocrisy of it is there’s dozens of Pepe the Frog apps already out on the App Store, and these are Pepe the   apps where Pepe is the icon. We merely had a cameo of Pepe,” Treadstone explained. “We get banned because it’s a   app, but you can have an app only about Pepe and that’s not offensive. ” Build the Wall: The Game is available now for iOS on the Apple App Store and for Android at Google Play. Disclaimer: Timothy Treadstone was previously Milo Yiannopoulos’ tour manager. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.