FALFURRIAS, Texas  —   A    girl is fighting to survive after a cartel human smuggler abandoned her and her    sister in the brush area. The teens were left to die and spent five days in the dangerous brush without water. [The rescue took place on Tuesday near at a ranch in Brooks County, information released to Breitbart Texas by U. S. Border Patrol revealed. Additional sources from the area revealed that the girls were left behind near Laborcitas Creek.  Brooks County is located about 80 miles north of the Mexican border and has become well known for the large numbers of deaths of illegal immigrants who are abandoned by their smugglers because they become injured or too weak to keep up. The rescue began when the Brooks County Sheriff’s Office received a 911 call from the human smuggler who said he had left the girls behind and they had not had water for five days. Authorities began a search of the area. A ranch hand eventually found the girls shortly before authorities arrived.  Because of the    girl’s poor medical condition authorities called in a helicopter in orderto rush her to a hospital in Corpus Christi. Initially, the girl was listed in grave condition. She has since been transferred to a children’s hospital also in Corpus Christi because her condition continued to worsen.  The girl’s    sister gave agents false identification cards. Authorities were eventually able to confirm their nationality and ages with the Mexican Consulate, “These heartless criminals take ruthless steps to exploit the multitude of poor immigrants from Mexico and Central America trying to reach the United States at any cost and the problem is getting worse,” said Chief Patrol Agent Manuel Padilla, Jr.  “No one wants to see their loved ones being violated or abandoned in this manner. ”    The rescue of the two girls comes just one day after Mexican cartel human smugglers abandoned a    girl from El Salvador on the banks of the Rio Grande moments after crossing before returning back to Mexico.  Earlier this week, Breitbart Texas Managing Director Brandon Darby and Associate Editor Bob Price reported about these specific kinds of horror faced by these illegal immigrants because of the open border policies of the federal government. Rape, abuse, abandonment and death are often the treatment these people receive from their human smugglers who are often connected to Mexican cartels. Efforts by the Brooks County Sheriff’s Office, the Border Patrol, Texas Department of Public Safety Troopers, Texas Rangers and members of the Texas State Guard have ramped up efforts find people like these two young girls and rescue them before they die. “Fortunately, because of the efforts of our deputies, the Border Patrol’s presence, help from the State of Texas with Texas Rangers, Department of Public Safety Troopers, and members of the Texas State Guard, the number of deaths this year is lower,” Brooks County Chief Deputy Benny Martinez told Breitbart Texas in an interview this week. “We have worked hard to do as much as we can with the limited resources we have and have pushed state officials to send us help. The lives saved as a result speaks to how well our people are doing. ” Ildefonso Ortiz is an award winning journalist with Breitbart Texas you can follow him on Twitter and on Facebook.