Liberal documentary filmaker Michael Moore is encouraging Americans to take to the streets to protest the inauguration of   Donald Trump. [“Disrupt the Inauguration. The Majority have spoken  —   by nearly 2. 7 million votes counting! Silence is not an option,” Moore tweeted Wednesday morning to his three million Twitter followers.  Disrupt the Inauguration. The Majority have spoken  —   by nearly 2. 7 million votes counting! Silence is not an option https:  .   —   Michael Moore (@MMFlint) December 7, 2016,  Moore’s tweet linked to a webpage for DisruptJ20, a social justice campaign calling for “a bold mobilization against the inauguration of Donald Trump on January 20, 2017. ” “We call on all people of good conscience to join in disrupting the ceremonies,” the website reads. “If Trump is to be inaugurated at all, let it happen behind closed doors, showing the true face of the security state Trump will preside over. It must be made clear to the whole world that the vast majority of people in the United States do not support his presidency or consent to his rule. ” The organization is planning protests on inauguration day in D. C. but insists that “If you can’t make it to Washington, DC on January 20, take to the streets wherever you are. ” There’s also a worldwide call to action: “If you are living outside the US, you can take action at US embassies, borders, or other symbols of neocolonial power. Our allegiance is not to “making America great again,” but to all of humanity and the planet. #DisruptJ20” Moore sent the aforementioned tweet hours after his appearance at a CNN town hall where he called the   a “malignant narcissist” to audible groans from the crowd. Michael Moore: Trump is a “malignant narcissist” who “is only about himself” https:  .  #TheMessyTruth https:  .   —   CNN (@CNN) December 7, 2016,  “It is the responsibility of this minority of Democrats in Congress to block, obstruct, disrupt, and do whatever they can to prevent the onslaught that is going to happen with Donald Trump, that the American people do not support,” Moore said Tuesday. Moore, a Clinton supporter and a committed   activist, predicted Trump’s victory. Days after Trump defeated Hillary Clinton, Moore showed up at Trump Tower in New York City seeking a    meeting with the  . He was turned away by Secret Service.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson