Leaked documents with sensitive FBI data exclusively obtained by Breitbart Texas reveal that 7, 712 terrorist encounters occurred within the United States in one year and that many of those encounters occurred near the U. S.  border. The incidents are characterized as “Known or Suspected Terrorist Encounters. ” Some of the encounters occurred near the U. S.  border at    and some occurred in between, indicating that persons known or reasonably suspected of being terrorists attempted to sneak into the U. S. across the border. In all, the encounters occurred in higher numbers in border states. [Some of the documents pertain to the entire U. S. while others focus specifically on the state of Arizona. The documents are labeled, “  ENFORCEMENT SENSITIVE” and contain data from the   Terrorist Screening Center, the organization maintaining the Terrorist Screening Database, also known as the “Terror Watch List. ”  The leaked FBI data are contained in a fusion center’s educational materials, specifically the Arizona Counter Terrorism Information Center’s (ACTIC) “Known or Suspected Terrorist (KST) Encounters Briefing” covering from July 20 2015 through July 20 2016. The leaked documents are composed of 10 individual pages, but Breitbart Texas chose to release only nine of them due to page 10 containing contact information for ACTIC. Page Two of the documents contains a map of the entire U. S. with the numbers of encounters per state. The states with the highest encounters are all border states. Texas, California, and Arizona —  all states with a shared border with Mexico —  rank high in encounters. Page Three shows a map of where the encounters occurred in the state of Arizona. The majority from this map occurred in Phoenix, a major destination point for people who illegally cross the U. S.  border. The map also shows that encounters occurred at    likely from persons either walking up and asking for asylum or from Sinaloa cartel attempts to smuggle them into the U. S. in vehicles. Most significantly, the map shows that many of the encounters occurred near the border outside of    indicating that persons were attempting to sneak into the U. S. Page Six shows a pie chart indicating that the majority of encounters in Arizona were with Islamic known or suspected terrorists, both Sunni and Shi’a.   encounters were Sunni, 56 were Shi’a, 70 were “Other International Terrorist Groups or Affiliates,” and only 52 were with “Domestic Terrorism. ” Page 7 contains definitions to help understand the maps. Breitbart Texas provides the leaked documents and data below: Brandon Darby is managing director and    of Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter and Facebook. Page 1 of 9 by Brandon Darby on Scribd,  Page 2 of 9 by Brandon Darby on Scribd,  Page 3 of 9 by Brandon Darby on Scribd,  Page 4 of 9 by Brandon Darby on Scribd,  Page 5 of 9 by Brandon Darby on Scribd,  Page 6 of 9 by Brandon Darby on Scribd,  Page 7 of 9 by Brandon Darby on Scribd,  Page 8 of 9 by Brandon Darby on Scribd,  Page 9 of 10 by Brandon Darby on Scribd, 