The latest USC   Angeles Times tracking poll puts Republican nominee Donald Trump up nearly 7 points over Democratic rival Hillary Clinton as of Sunday morning  —   and over 20% among black voters[Trump led Clinton, 47. 7% to 41. 0%  —   his highest overall support in the poll, and the largest gap since Trump led by 7. 3% during the party conventions in July.  The poll was conducted among 2, 507 respondents, including over 400 who are polled every day. In addition to increasing his lead overall, Trump continued to improve among black voters. While media outlets have tried to assure readers that Donald Trump’s trip to a black church in Flint, Michigan was a disaster, Trump’s support among   immediately skyrocketed above 19% in the poll and has stayed there for four days, hitting an   high of 20. 1% in the poll released after midnight Sunday morning. While the Times daily tracker, which experiments with allowing voters to give their honest opinions anonymously, has always shown Trump with more support than other polls, it has still indicated he was in the low single digits among black voters almost every day until his visit to Flint. Trump’s visited a predominently   church, among other stops. Media and liberal entertainers circulated the photo of a nervous young   girl, “Little Miss Flint,” appearing nervous as she stood by Trump, as supposed evidence black voters should reject Trump’s appeal. The Huffington Post went so far as to run a subhead that read, ‘This little girl wishes she was somewhere less scary, like in a dark room with a clown holding a machete.’ Local news reported the actual words from the girl herself and her mother: “I was scared Secret Service would tackle me for touching him and there was a lot of people around yelling. ” On Facebook, her mother posted: Ok ya’ll, that pic is being BLOWN way out of proportion. Mari was not terrified of that man, she still wants to ask him her question. We had to get through the crowd twice to get his attention since he walked out the opposite way he came in (which had her a bit overwhelmed) then with people yelling at him, and add the secret service to the mix, well think how you would feel? Their whole interaction was ten seconds tops. Yes she did ask to be there and meet him and was all smiles before hand but she feeds off the energy of people around her. To those saying she is traumatized for life  …    . .seriously people? !?! Including a photo of her about an hour after that pic so you can see how traumatized for life she was . Apparently black voters, who Trump argues are the most hurt in the job market by illegal immigrants, appreciated the Trump outreach and not being taken for granted. This weekend, President Obama said he would be insulted if black voters did not turn out and vote, according to Real Clear Politics.