Radio host Dana Loesch is not backing down after a monologue criticizing “ ” Trump supporter and CNN analyst Kayleigh McEnany resulted in backlash from conservatives. [After it was reported that McEnany is undergoing mastectomy surgery due to having the cancerous gene BRCA1, Loesch  —   once the editor of Breitbart’s Big Journalism  —   wrote on her personal blog that she did not cross a line, and her critics should feel “shame  …     for such a ridiculous deflection. ”  This election cycle the most fervent Trump supporters have excused, defended, even cheered a candidate that has mocked a disabled reporter, the appearance of   Carly Fiorina (sadly, this gene also runs in my family which has been ravaged by cancer) and women in general.   …     In fact, this most fervent group’s behavior is the epitome of Social Justice Warrior Political Correctness. I pointed this out in my monologue (also here and here) regarding a Trump surrogate who had the audacity to play bouncer of the conservative movement by personally attacking and smearing conservatives I know and claiming that you can’t be a true conservative unless you   support Donald Trump. Her statement was asinine and my observation, delivered in the stated style of Donald Trump, was absolutely valid. That I chose this rhetorical device (I even predicted the outrage and literally mocked it   in the video) served the purpose of highlighting the hypocrisy of these most fervent supporters, and they didn’t disappoint with their hypocritical reaction. As she promoted the article on Twitter, Loesch claimed at least eight times that she has the same gene in her family, but she hasn’t taken preventative measures like McEnany. She acknowledged seeing its effects firsthand, writing: “I’ve watched every woman in my family die a horrible death from it. ” @JoePrich @ksanton63 I have the same gene in my family. Stop using progressive tactics to deflect. https:  .   —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) May 11, 2016,  @fayingegneri I do. My family has the same gene. Stop using progressive tactics https:  .  @petersthoughts,  —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) May 11, 2016,  @KayeMarcy Thanks is for wishing me dead! My family has the gene and I lost my grandmothers to it. https:  .   —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) May 11, 2016,  @fayingegneri I’m no different. I haven’t elected any preventative work. https:  .  @petersthoughts,  —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) May 11, 2016,  @KayeMarcy I have the same condition. It’s a made up deflection because my point on the political issue was valid. https:  .   —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) May 11, 2016,  Shame on those fabricating a story about a condition my family shares to deflect from valid point on political issue https:  .   —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) May 11, 2016,  @fayingegneri You don’t need to remind me. I’ve watched every woman in my family die a horrible death from it, thanks.  —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) May 11, 2016,  Considering my family has the gene you may get your death wish on me. Also: https:  .  https:  .   —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) May 11, 2016,  Loesch, of Glenn Beck’s The Blaze cable network, first criticized McEnany on Monday afternoon, referring to her as “” which sparked the backlash.  After this monologue came to light in a cheering post from RedState  —   where Loesch also criticized McEnany’s blonde hair and teeth  —   it was reported that McEnany started the process of undergoing a preventative mastectomy after she found out she was BRCA1 positive. The Daily Caller’s Betsy Rothstein said Loesch “may want to bury her head in sand for a day or two. ” Independent Journal said that the oversight on McEnany’s life story is “a valuable life lesson” for Loesch. A post on The Daily Wire said Loesch “lost her   mind” during the monologue. A blog on Patheos, shared on Twitter by actress Stacey Dash, chastised Loesch for presenting a poor example of her professed Christian faith: Yes, this is where we are in the 2016 Presidential race.  The Christian conservative #NeverTrumps who hate the Donald for  —   among other things  —   making fun of women, choose to mock his supporters for being women who just aren’t as pretty as they should be. Being BRCA1 positive means an individual has a particular gene that causes on average a 65 percent chance of developing certain types of cancer. McEnany is BRCA1 positive and eight of her aunts have each had breast cancer. “I had implants put in,” McEnany previously explained, saying her next step will be to remove the breast tissue and then later, her ovaries. “I’m terrified every time I get an MRI   …     It’s haunting. ”