Yossi Dagan, chair of Israel’s Shomron Regional Council, has released an open letter to incoming White House Chief Strategist and Senior Counselor Stephen K. Bannon, offering his support and congratulations. [Bannon is also on leave as Executive Chairman of Breitbart News.  Dagan was elected in 2015 to lead the most prominent Israeli municipal body in Samaria, in the northern West Bank. He is also a key player in the central committee of the Likud Party, the party of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. During the U. S. presidential campaign, Dagan attended the opening of a campaign office for Donald Trump in the West Bank. Supporters of both Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump attempted to encourage Americans living in Israel to vote. The letter, provided to Breitbart News, follows. Dear Stephen Bannon, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on the amazing election results for   Donald Trump and the United States of America. I would also like congratulate you personally on being appointed as Chief Strategist. We know that you are a strong supporter of Israel and a true friend to the Jewish people and we look forward to your leadership in the White House. It saddened me to hear about the uncalled for smear campaign against you by political opponents who refuse to accept the reality of losing a fair and democratic election. I am pleased that we in the Shomron, were first to openly support Donald Trump’s campaign and also opened a campaign headquarters here. I, as leader of the second largest group   Israel’s Likud party central committee and Chairman of the Shomron Regional Council, am glad that after 8 hard years we now have decent minded people like yourself, coming to power in Washington DC. Again, I would like to send my sincerest wishes to you and the American people. Please consider me a friend and resource for all of your Israel related interaction, and I look forward to meeting with you soon. Blessing from the people and Land of Israel, Yossi DaganChairmanShomron Regional Council, Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.