TEL AVIV  —   During a radio interview broadcast on Sunday, comic legend Jackie Mason, who refers to himself as the “Ultimate Jew,” slammed Sen. Bernie Sanders as a “schmuck” for repeatedly criticizing the Jewish state. [Mason contended that Sanders’ numerous attacks on Israel stem from what Mason claimed was the politician’s   at being Jewish.  Mason was speaking during his regular segment on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” the popular weekend talk radio program broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM in Philadelphia. Klein doubles as Breitbart’s senior investigative reporter and Jerusalem bureau chief. Sanders has repeatedly stated that Israel’s actions during the 2014   War were “disproportionate. ”  He also vastly inflated the numbers of civilian deaths during the conflict, surpassing even Hamas’s fraudulent nubers, and wrongly claimed that Israel bombed “hospitals” during the war. “This is the phoniest, lowest kind of a thing anybody ever said,” Mason told Klein in response. Continued Mason: Here’s a Jew from Brooklyn who never even saw a gentile till he was 28. Obviously, this man has a very, very big sickness. There’s something about being Jewish that makes him   and nervous. And he has to prove to himself and to the country that he doesn’t favor Israel in any way. He’s so determined that he’ll tell any lie about Israel that he can think of to say to you: ‘Do you see that? This is proof that I don’t pay for Israel. The fact that I want every Israeli to drop dead for me to prove a point doesn’t matter. If they all get wiped out, it’s not my business.  The main thing is that I’m not favoring Israel.’ Mason labeled Sanders a “schmuck,” and jested that the politician would love Israel if only the country ceased to exist while fighting climate change. A schmuck like Bernie Sanders pops out who doesn’t even know what’s going on and doesn’t care. Because to him Israel getting wiped out is no problem. Climate change is the only problem. To him, the most important thing in the world is climate change. If Israel gave up their country but they fought for climate change, he would love Israel. In ten minutes, they would be his favourite country. Responding specifically to Sanders’ statements about the “disproportionate” use of force in Gaza, Mason stated:  If they were bombing his house every day, would he say, ‘Don’t do anything to them? Don’t disturb them.   …    So what if they are bombing my house? That doesn’t mean that I should start hurting them’  …     Could you picture him saying don’t disturb them if their only purpose is to keep bombing your house until they destroy you and your whole family?  And they never stop. Does that mean that you should do anything about it? Try to control yourself. Don’t be disproportionate. Don’t bomb them back. Call them names. Make an announcement that you resent it. Klein himself previously responded to Sanders’ “disproportionate” criticism against Israel. Klein wrote at Breitbart: First, let’s not forget why the Gaza War was launched in the first place. Hamas repeatedly violated a truce by firing scores of rockets from Gaza into Israeli civilian population zones. In one day alone, July 8, Hamas launched 40 rockets into Israel, prompting Israeli retaliation and the start of the conflict. What nation on earth would allow a terrorist army to amass a rocket infrastructure in a neighboring territory and use that land  —   which Israel evacuated in hope of peace  —   as a staging ground for constant terrorist rocket attacks? And by calling Israel’s   “disproportionate,” what exactly is Sanders advocating? That instead of acting to minimize the terrorist threat against its civilians, Israel should respond to every act of Palestinian terrorism with an equivalent act? So if Hamas fires a rocket into a Jewish city, Israel should therefore respond by indiscriminately launching a terror rocket into a Palestinian city with the intent of killing civilians? That the next time a Palestinian stabs an Israeli, the Jewish state should send one of its own into Ramallah to stab a Palestinian civilian? Sanders’s statement is preposterous, nonsensical, and negates Israel’s ability to defend itself and degrade Hamas’s terrorist infrastructure.