Planned Parenthood CEO Cecile Richards says she doesn’t know when a baby receives constitutional rights.[  “Well, I don’t really, actually  —   I don’t know that there’s an exact answer for that,” Richards replied to a question by Doug Wagner of WHO Newsradio. She then dismissed the issue, adding: I think it really, honestly that’s not the problem we are facing in America. What we are facing in America is the fact that women in many states have fewer rights to access basic health care. And again, I think it’s really important that we be honest here about birth control. In February, Richards told Clinton supporters in Nevada that, because of Obamacare, 55 million women in the United States are obtaining birth control for free. Richards said “until a pregnancy is viable” women have the right to abort their babies. As CNSNews. com reports, on Tuesday Richards was campaigning for Hillary Clinton in Iowa and was asked to comment by Wagner about Clinton’s statement that unborn children have no constitutional rights. In April, Clinton responded to The View   Paula Faris when asked about her comments that an unborn child has no constitutional rights: Under our law that is the case, Paula. I support Roe v. Wade because I think it is an important  —   an important statement about the importance of a woman making this most difficult decision with consultation by whom she chooses: her doctor, her faith, her family. And under the law and under certainly that decision, that is the way we structure it. Planned Parenthood and its political allies claim abortion is a woman’s right up until the baby’s due date, and they consistently fight state and federal restrictions on   abortions. Although some states have restricted   abortions,   organization Live Action observes all states allow abortion into the ninth month for certain exceptions, and eight states allow abortion until birth for any reason (Colorado, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Washington State). “While the abortion industry claims that   abortions are an insignificant number of abortions and they’re only done because of a disability the baby has or to protect the life of the mother, the evidence says just the opposite,” says Lila Rose, Live Action’s president and founder. Noting the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) report in 2012 that 1. 3 percent of abortions were committed at 21 weeks’ gestation and later, Rose adds, “With nearly one million abortions annually in the U. S. abortionists are killing close to 13, 000 children every year who are often fully developed and can survive outside the womb. ” Research published by the Guttmacher Institute also finds that most   abortions were not done for medical reasons  —   as the abortion lobby often states. Fetal abnormalities “make up a small minority” of   abortions, and those for saving the life of the mother are even less. According to the study: Most women seeking later abortion fit at least one of five profiles: They were raising children alone, were depressed or using illicit substances, were in conflict with a male partner or experiencing domestic violence, had trouble deciding and then had access problems, or were young and nulliparous [never given birth]. “The abortion industry denies the science of fetal development and continues to advocate for aborting fully developed, viable children who can feel the pain of the abortionist’s needle that’s used to kill them,” Rose asserts. Planned Parenthood has been under congressional investigation for the past year following an undercover investigation that alleged its practice of harvesting the body parts of aborted babies for profit.