Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager Robby Mook acknowledged Thursday that rival Sen. Bernie Sanders ( ) raised more donations is January. [“He outraised us in January,” Mook said at a Bloomberg Politics breakfast, according to CBS News. “We’ve been very candid with our online supporters that Senator Sanders’ online supporters have given more often  —   a higher proportion of his list contributes. ”  BIG: @HillaryClinton just announced she was outraised by @SenSanders in $ in January. He raised $20m, she raised $15m   …      —   Ed Henry (@edhenry) February 4, 2016, Sanders’ campaign announced on Sunday that the Vermont senator raked in more than $20 million in January. Clinton raised $15 million. In contrast to Clinton’s fewer but bigger donations, contributions to Sanders’ campaign in January almost entirely consisted of online payments, averaging $27 a person. CBS notes that there were more than 770, 000 individual contributions, bringing the total number of individual donations for his campaign to $3. 25 million. Clinton’s campaign reportedly said 95 percent of its donations in January were given in $100 increments or less. This is the first time that Sanders outraised Clinton in one quarter. Sanders reportedly came close in the    quarter, raising $25. 5 million, finishing just $3 million behind Clinton’s campaign. The numbers indicate a dramatic rise in Sanders’ fundraising haul over the past three months. He finished in a virtual tie with Clinton during this week’s Iowa Caucus where Clinton declared a victory despite the very small margin between the two candidates a statistic indicating deep divisions within the Democratic Party itself among its voting class. Clinton was also the winner of six coin tosses which awarded her six precincts that were deemed a deadlock tie during Monday’s caucus. While Clinton enjoys the support of an older demographic, Sanders has been championed as the candidate of the millennials. Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz.