Fallout over the abuse allegations against Johnny Depp made by his wife, actress Amber Heard, has spread to Depp’s music career as social media users posting the hashtag #ImWithAmber have called for a boycott of the actor’s concert Monday in Sweden at Stockholm’s Gröna Lund theme park. [Heard file for a restraining order against Depp Friday, presenting photos to a judge of her bruised face as evidence. The    actress was subsequently granted a temporary restraining order.  The Pirates of the Caribbean star, who married Heard in 2015, has vehemently denied all allegations of abuse. Depp’s rock band, The Hollywood Vampires, which features rock legends Alice Cooper and Aerosmith’s Joe Perry, played at the Rock in Rio music festival in Lisbon, Portugal on Friday. Fans of Heard posted messages on Gröna Lund’s Facebook event page promising to boycott Depp’s upcoming concert amid the abuse allegations. Using the hashtag #ImWithAmber, one Facebook user said “I was planning on going to the concert but I will boycott it,” according to Swedish paper The Local. “Are you taking a stand against this, Gröna Lund?” wrote another. “I hope that as many as possible do the right thing and boycott this. ” Gröna Lund’s Instagram account was also inundated with posts from commenters upset that the park had opted to host Depp’s band. “Johnny Depp is a woman abuser so how about setting up their concert?” asked one user. “Doesn’t make any sense,” another user replied. In response to the backlash, a Gröna Lund spokeswoman told The Local: “Of course we renounce all violence. However, it is just as important not to judge people beforehand and that you are innocent until proven guilty. ” Coming to Depp’s defense was his girlfriend of 14 years and the mother of his two children, French model Vanessa Paradis, and Lori Anne Allison, to whom Depp was married from 1983 to 1986. Both women released separate statements over the weekend saying Depp had never physically assaulted them throughout their relationships. Calls to boycott Depp’s concert in Sweden came on the same weekend that his latest film, Alice Through the Looking Glass, tanked at the box office. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson