That mass migration is adding enormous pressure to public services has been confirmed by German dental professionals, who have warned the teeth of many immigrants are so bad they require significant work, which will cost the tax payer billions of Euros. [Describing the teeth of migrants who are coming to German dentists for work as “catastrophic” and often requiring total replacement,   dentists’ association chief Knuth Wolf said: “For the majority of refugees there is a need for a comprehensive dental treatment, or even dentures. There are corresponding costs with this”.  There are presently no official government estimates for the cost of healthcare to migrants by the German state. Operating the oldest national healthcare system in the world and   Britain’s National Health Service (NHS) by 50 years, the vast majority of Germans pay into private health insurance schemes and visit independent hospitals. Lacking this insurance, asylum seekers to Germany are only entitled to emergency treatment, yet the costs of dental care is mounting. In cities like Hamburg, the city government has ordered the private insurance schemes to accept migrants onto their books, passing on the cost to local tax payers instead. And once asylum applications are accepted migrants receive the same insurance as other Germans alongside unemployment benefits automatically, if they are unable to find work. With the costs of each dental treatment breaching €10, 000, the estimated cost for the migrant invasion in teeth alone could be many billions of Euros, reports the Stuttgarter Nachrichten. In fact, if just 10 per cent of Germany’s total number of migrants claim for dental work, the bill would easily exceed €1bn. Dental care is not the only public health area in which the migrant crisis is putting practitioners and facilities under unprecedented strain. As reported by Breitbart London last year, a Gatestone Institute account of the healthcare situation in Germany found clinics and emergency rooms “filled to capacity” and previously exterminated diseased making comebacks. “German public health officials are now on the lookout for Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever, diphtheria, Ebola, hepatitis,   malaria, measles, meningitis, mumps, polio, scabies, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhus and whooping cough. As refugee shelters fill to overflowing, doctors are also on high alert for mass outbreaks of influenza and Norovirus” says the report.