  rapper Boosie Badazz says contemporary television programing promotes gay characters in an attempt to make children gay, all for “monetary gain. ”[“They trying to make everyone all f**king gay. That’s what I think,” Boosie told DJ Vlad in the interview posted to YouTube on June 30. “They’re putting it on our culture, they’re putting it everywhere. ”  The rapper suggests that “gay stuff is everywhere, and I think they’re just trying to do it to make monetary gain. They’re not doing it for the gays. ” The    rapper went on a   Instagram rant last November accusing television programs including Fox’s Empire and VH1’s Love  Hip Hop of excessively producing homosexual material. Boosie said he didn’t see male cartoon characters kissing male characters on animated shows like The Flintstones and The Jetsons when he was younger. “It wasn’t like that when I was coming up,” he said. “The Ninja Turtles wasn’t kissing. They didn’t have two men on The Flintstones kissing. The Jetsons wasn’t kissing. ” “I say in 10 years, you’re going to have damn near half the population gay because of what they put on TV,” he added.  Boosie was locked up in the Louisiana State Penitentiary from   on murder charges and conspiracy. “Since I’ve came home every time I turn on the TV some gay sh*t on,” he reportedly wrote last year. “Walked n on a cartoon doing gay sh*t a f**kin cartoon kids watch tv. ” Boosie, a father of seven, was asked what he would do if one of his sons revealed that he was gay. “First, I’m gonna try to slap his ass back straight. I’m gonna kick his ass, and maybe he’ll realize that he’s not gay,” the rapper replied. “But if I can’t stop him from being gay, I’m not going to ban my son from my life,” he added. “I’ll just have to find some   way to deal with it. ” GLAAD’s annual study of television characters for the   season concluded that 35 of the 881 regular characters on broadcast television shows were LGBT characters. The study found that 84 LGBT characters were found on cable.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson