(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. President Trump has produced an “America First” fiscal plan that is not even earning much praise from his own allies in Congress. His $1. 1 trillion spending plan does not reduce the deficit. It sharply increases military spending while cutting the budgets of federal agencies and programs, including the Environmental Protection Agency, the State Department and the National Endowment for the Arts. It is a gamble for a politician whose supporters include   workers who rely on many of the programs he proposes to reduce, including grants that feed hungry children and help local law enforcement. “This will be a heavy lift for the House, and for the Senate, a lot of this will be nonstarters,” said former Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, who chaired the Budget Committee. Here are the winners and losers in the budget, broken down by agency. _____ 2. House Republicans took another step toward repealing the Affordable Care Act. After the Budget Committee approved the new health care bill over the objections of three Republicans, it goes now to the full House. Party leaders acknowledge that they don’t have the votes yet to ensure it will pass. To appease conservatives, the White House is looking at accelerating cuts to Medicaid. Above, Mick Mulvaney, the White House budget director. _____ 3. Who undercut Mr. Trump’s travel ban? You might say Mr. Trump himself did  —   as a candidate. The two federal judges who blocked his revamped travel ban cited his own campaign rhetoric as evidence of his unconstitutional aim of barring Muslims from entering the country. The White House says it will appeal the rulings. We took a look at the long and extensive visa process to enter the U. S. It can take months, or even a year, and often ends in denial. And we tagged along on a trip to the airport, as one family caught up in the travel ban was reunited. _____ 4. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson began his first major foreign trip in Japan, warning that the United States needs a “different approach” to North Korea’s escalating nuclear threat. He faced questions (from preselected reporters) about the 29 percent cuts to the State Department in Mr. Trump’s budget plan. He called current spending “simply not sustainable” and said that the department could “do a lot with fewer dollars. ” He heads to South Korea and China next. _____ 5. European leaders cheered the record turnout  —   and results  —   in the Dutch elections on Wednesday. Voters denied Geert Wilders’s   party a victory in an election that was seen as a barometer of the far right’s appeal on the Continent. The   party of Prime Minister Mark Rutte won the most votes, offering a milder version of Mr. Wilders’s   platform, and remains the largest bloc in Parliament. “The Netherlands, after Brexit, after the American elections, said ‘Whoa’ to the wrong kind of populism,” Mr. Rutte said in his victory speech. _____ 6. Federal and state prosecutors closed their yearlong investigation into the   practices of Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York City. While they faulted the mayor and his aides, saying he had failed to abide by the “intent and spirit” of the law, they said they would not press charges. _____  7. While scolding Mr. Trump, the Mexican government is quietly trying to gut basic legal protections for its citizens at home. Experts fear a bill submitted by a close ally of President Enrique Peña Nieto to overhaul the legal system would set human rights in Mexico back decades, while another bill would legalize the military’s domestic security role. _____ 8. Ivanka Trump and Nikki Haley, the ambassador to the United Nations, were among the 600 guests that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada took to a new Broadway musical. Mr. Trudeau sent a clear message with his choice of show  —   “Come From Away,” which is about a Canadian town that hosted thousands of air travelers from around the world when North American airspace was closed after Sept. 11. The musical celebrates generosity toward foreigners in need. Mr. Trudeau, whose policy of welcoming refugees has been at odds with the harsher stance of the Trump administration, was greeted with a standing ovation. _____ 9. The first games in the N. C. A. A. men’s basketball tournament were tight. Here’s the full March Madness schedule, plus how to watch. South Carolina is allowed to host for the first time in 15 years, after it took down the Confederate flag from the State Capitol. Now it’s North Carolina that is banned, because of a law that curbs   protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. _____ 10. Finally, some updates from  .   comedians were unimpressed with Rachel Maddow’s Trump tax return scoop. “Is this news or a reality show?” asked Stephen Colbert. “I don’t want to watch ‘America’s Got 1040s. ’” Netflix is adding more foreign programming. Our critic likes “Fauda” from Israel, above, and “Nobel” from Norway. If you haven’t bought a television in the last two years, it might be a good time to upgrade. Here’s a guide on what to look for. Have a great night. _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.