A Texas BBQ restaurant has made their transgender bathroom policy abundantly clear  —   “No Men Allowed in Women’s Bathroom. ” A   cowboy truck driver has been   trouble in the Texas BBQ joint. The trucker likes to come in dressed in a skirt or hot pants and a blouse and   stilettos. [The sign in the small Texas town restaurant now politely warns, “No men allowed in the women’s bathroom please. ” The restaurant shares the building with a Texaco service station.  The establishment in Cresson, Texas, was forced to put up the sign in response to the trucker who has come to the restaurant over the last     . The North Texas town, population 761 according to a 2013 census report, is located about 20 miles southwest of Fort Worth. John Sanford, the owner of BBQ on the Brazos told the Fort Worth   “Before this gender thing got started, there’s a truck driver who comes in here who occasionally has on jeans and boots or occasionally has on a skirt and   stilettos. ” Sanford added, “He’s a pickup man for rodeos. The furthest thing from my mind was to see him in hot pants, a blouse and   heels. ”   men help riders at a rodeo after they have been thrown. He said he placed the sign on the women’s restroom after female employees and other females who frequent the restaurant asked him to. “Everybody got together and said, we can’t have this guy going into the ladies’ restroom,” Sanford said. “I don’t care if he has on a dress or not. ” Sanford said the sign has nothing to do with President Obama’s new policy mandating that transgender students, or those who are identifying with a particular gender on a given day, use the restroom or shower facilities that they are more comfortable with. The sign has been on the door before “gender fluidity” became a big issue. Sandford added if those who visit his restaurant to get some brisket think the sign was placed to protest Obama’s new policy, the 1, 000 residents of the town would probably be just fine with that.   Fort Worth Independent School District announced a transgender policy just days before the White House issued its “guidance letter” on May 13. Breitbart Texas reported that parents have protested the new policy. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton joined parents to protest Superintendent Dr. Kent Paredes Scribner’s edict, and has sued the federal government over the policy, as reported by Breitbart Texas. Governor Greg Abbott responded to the White House’s announcement saying that Texas will fight the policy. He tweeted, “Obama can’t rewrite the Civil Rights Act. He’s not a King. ”