In July of 2015, an illegal alien allegedly broke into the home a    Air Force veteran Marilyn Pharis while she was asleep in her bedroom. [Using a claw hammer, the illegal alien and his accomplice began savagely beating the elderly woman, according to police. Authorities say they shattered her eye sockets, strangled her, broke her neck bone, raped her, and left her for dead.  Pharis, described by her family as a “gentle” woman, desperately tried to fight back as she was pinned down in her own bed under the heavy weight of her assailant as he was crushing the bones in her face with his hammer, according to police. Pharis died a few days later in the hospital. The illegal alien accused of assaulting Pharis had been arrested six times in just the 15 months leading up to her rape and murder, but he was never removed from the country. There is no public record that House Speaker Paul Ryan has ever spoken out about Pharis’ sexual assault. Instead, five months after Pharis’ sexual assault, Speaker Ryan voted to grant federal funding to continue the sanctuary policies which local authorities say were responsible for Pharis’ death. In 2014, when Pharis’ assailant had been arrested on prior felony drug and sexual assault charges, ICE issued a detainer for the illegal alien, “but the Santa Maria’s sheriff’s office declined to honor [ICE’s detainer] because of a local sanctuary policy,” wrote Senator Chuck Grassley’s office. Instead the illegal alien with prior sexual assault charges was allowed to remain in the U. S. —   eventually going on to brutally rape and kill Pharis, according to police. Local authorities said that the nation’s federal immigration policies were to blame for her assault. “I am not remiss to say that from Washington, D. C. to Sacramento, there’s a blood trail into the bedroom of Marilyn Pharis,” said Santa Maria Police Chief Ralph Martin. Yet late last year, when Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions tried to put forward a proposal that would have included language in the   omnibus spending bill to end Sanctuary Cities, Ryan failed to include the language in the bill. As a result, Ryan’s omnibus allowed the lawless sanctuary cities policies and the victimization of innocent American women to continue. According to a 2011 report from the Government Accountability Office, there are 70, 000 sexual offenses attached to the incarcerated criminal alien population. Ryan has remained passive and quiet as criminal aliens have assaulted tens of thousands of American women, but when an    audio tape emerged of Donald Trump caught on a hot mic discussing women in crass terms, Ryan declared himself “sickened” and spoke out. “I am sickened by what I heard today,” Ryan said in a statement, referring to Trump’s lewd private   style banter with Billy Bush. “Women are to be championed and revered, not objectified,” he declared. “I hope Mr. Trump treats this situation with the seriousness it deserves and works to demonstrate to the country that he has greater respect for women than this clip suggests. ” The day after Paul Ryan was “sickened” by Trump’s   comments, police say a    illegal immigrant from El Salvador broke into the home of a Texas family in the middle of the night, kidnapped the family’s    daughter while her parents were asleep, took the girl to a park, and raped her. Police said that they were only able to find the child because someone had heard the little girl’s screams. When the authorities found her, she immediately ran towards the police officers and was visibly “very scared. ” There is no public record of Speaker Ryan speaking out against the alleged sexual assault of this    girl, nor did Ryan seem to feel the need to take immediate actions that would prevent future assaults of this nature. Ryan’s statement  —   describing Trump’s comments as “sickening”  —   came the same night that WikiLeaks revealed that Hillary Clinton had privately told a group of foreign bankers that her “dream” was to enact “open trade and open borders. ” Speaker Ryan’s record of open borders advocacy syncs up with Clinton’s “dream,” as well as the agendas of wealthy Republican donors like the Koch brothers. The overwhelming similarities between the goals of establishment leaders in both political parties and the goals of their wealthy corporate donors recently prompted Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein to denounce Hillary Clinton as a corporatist and the face of “#TheNewRepublicanParty. ” “Both Democrats and Republicans are funded by big corporate interests,” Stein wrote, noting that these members of Washington’s “uniparty” are united in their shared desire to advance the goals of their wealthy donors rather than the desires of the people. Indeed, several reports have documented how Ryan would likely accomplish more of his and the Republican Party’s donor class legislative goals on foreign trade, foreign migration, and foreign wars if Hillary Clinton were in the White House than if Donald Trump were president. Throughout the election, several conservatives have argued that many of Ryan’s statements and actions have seemed designed to undermine Trump and the Republican Party’s chances of electoral success. Trump himself called out Ryan’s lack of support on Twitter: Despite winning the second debate in a landslide (every poll) it is hard to do well when Paul Ryan and others give zero support!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 11, 2016,  Our very weak and ineffective leader, Paul Ryan, had a bad conference call where his members went wild at his disloyalty.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 11, 2016,  Paul Ryan should spend more time on balancing the budget, jobs and illegal immigration and not waste his time on fighting Republican nominee,  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 10, 2016,  The day after Trump’s strong debate performance against Clinton, Ryan made headlines by telling GOP House members that he would not defend their party’s nominee, who was overwhelmingly selected by the Republican voters whom Ryan is supposed to represent. At the same time, former Ryan adviser Dan Senor urged members of corporate media not to talk about Trump’s success at the debate, but to instead focus on the   leaked audio recording of Trump and Billy Bush. “Note to media: if interviewing Trump surrogates today, focus q’s on tape. Besides Rudy, these surrogates were all hiding over the weekend,” Senor tweeted. “Now Trump surrogates magically appear   debate wasn’t a disaster. You shld intv them abt the tape, as though the debate never occurred. ” Ryan’s office did not respond to a request for comment.