Hollywood actor George Clooney described Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump as a “xenophobic fascist” during a recent interview. [In a   interview ahead of the British release of his most recent stateside flop Hail, Caesar! with The Guardian that was published on Wednesday Mar. 3, Clooney launched into an   assault on Trump’s candidacy.  “He’s just an opportunist. Now he’s a fascist a xenophobic fascist,” Clooney told the paper of the GOP frontrunner. “You can count on Americans to do the right thing after they’ve exhausted all the other possibilities. ” Clooney added: The truth of the matter is, in election season, things go crazy, and the loudest voices are the furthest and most extreme. So you hear a massively stupid idea, like we’re going to ban Muslims from the country. Now, we’re not ever going to do that. It says in the Statue of Liberty, bring us your huddled masses. It’s not what’s going to happen. Clooney also recalled once meeting Trump, and complained about the real estate tycoon later describing him as “short. ” “I met Donald once. I was sitting in a booth and we talked for a while,” he told Guardian. “Then he did Larry King, and he said I was very short. And I was like: ‘I was sitting down the whole time, Donald!” Clooney was referring to a 2007 interview in which Trump told CNN’s Larry King he was surprised by Clooney’s smaller physical stature, as he expected him to be larger in person. “One of the perceptions I had of George Clooney was he was this big, strong guy. And he was very little when I met him. It’s OK. Nothing wrong with it. He’s doing just fine,” Trump told King. “But the perception is this, you know, different kind of a guy. And when I met him, I was very surprised. ” Trump made the comments during a conversation regarding the perception of others in business and life. Clooney also explained his support for Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton to Guardian and shared his esteem for democratic socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders. “I am a Hillary supporter. I am doing a fundraiser for her,” the actor said. He added: “I really love Bernie Sanders, and am really glad he is in the debate. He is forcing the conversation to things that never get talked about in U. S. politics: disparity between the rich and the poor, which is getting worse and worse every day. ” Clooney concluded the interview saying, “No one is talking about the Syrian refugee thing in the US,” and said Americans should be “more involved. ” Clooney, who is an advocate for open borders, is known for going to great lengths to keep unwanted parties from coming on or near his private properties. The actor once described Trump’s immigration and national security proposals as both “intolerant” and “idiotic. ” As Breitbart News has previously reported, Roberto Pozzi, the mayor of Lake Como in northern Italy, imposed a $600 fine for anyone found to be trespassing on or near Clooney’s luxurious private estate last year, in an effort to ensure Clooney and his wife Amal have privacy and security. Read Clooney’s full Guardian interview here.