Comedian and prolific tweeter Patton Oswalt defended Hillary Clinton over concerns about her health on Sunday, calling it “badass” that the Democratic presidential candidate is campaigning “as hard as she is” after being diagnosed with pneumonia on Friday. [“Wait, so Hillary has PNEUMONIA and she’s still campaigning as hard as she is? You realize how badass that is, right?” the    King of Queens star tweeted.  Wait, so Hillary has PNEUMONIA and she’s still campaigning as hard as she is? You realize how badass that is, right?  —   Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) September 11, 2016,  “Psychotic, dissociative narcissism with lack of empathy &gt pneumonia,” the comedian followed up, adding the hashtag “#ImWithHer. ” Psychotic, dissociative narcissism with lack of empathy &gt pneumonia. #ImWithHer,  —   Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) September 11, 2016,  Concerns about the candidate’s health received renewed attention Sunday after Clinton left a September 11 memorial event in New York City early, and, in a video later posted online, stumbled and appeared to require help from aides while getting into her motorcade van. Clinton’s campaign issued a statement saying that the candidate had felt “overheated,” before Clinton’s doctor, Dr. Lisa Bardack, said in a statement later Sunday that she had been diagnosed with pneumonia on Friday. Earlier this month, FBI documents concerning the investigation into Clinton’s private email server released by the agency revealed that the former Secretary of State told investigators she could not recall every State Department briefing she received about handling sensitive material due to a concussion she had sustained in 2012. Clinton cancelled her scheduled trip to California this week, where she had been set to attend fundraisers in Los Angeles and San Francisco on Monday and Tuesday, including at the homes of Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane and billionaire businessman Barry Diller. Oswalt has frequently defended Clinton and attacked her rival, Republican Donald Trump, to his more than 2. 8 million followers on Twitter in recent months. Guys, let Trump’s campaign run with the #BasketOfDeplorables thing while they can. They’ve only got so much time before Trump’s next gaffe.  —   Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) September 11, 2016,  Trump’s turned everyone with an IQ over 100 into the crazy old man at the beginning FRIDAY THE 13th. ”It’s got a DEATH CURSE!”  —   Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) September 10, 2016,  I’m NOT trying to get #TrumpCantSwim trending. I don’t believe that #TrumpCantSwim. #TrumpCantSwim? Get real. https:  .   —   Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) September 5, 2016,  ”In MY America, it’ll be the kids luring clowns into woods! Believe me.”  —   @realDonaldTrump  sometime in October.  —   Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) September 2, 2016,  Still, not all of Clinton’s   supporters praised the candidate for campaigning with pneumonia. On Sunday, liberal documentary filmmaker Michael Moore urged Clinton to take a week to rest, calling the pneumonia diagnosis “serious. ” Well, pneumonia. That’s serious. Campaign kept it hidden   . No wonder the crazies get traction. Dems are pros at losing elections.  —   Michael Moore (@MMFlint) September 11, 2016,  Hillary: U need to REST. Take the wk off. Take 2. Let the rest of us pull the weight. Every1 can do a little. Who’s   me? Tweet #IWorkHRest,  —   Michael Moore (@MMFlint) September 11, 2016,    Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum