It’s no secret that I endorse Ted Cruz for President, because he best represents conservative ideals. And yes, I was highly critical of Donald Trump’s attack on the First Amendment in the wake of the thwarted jihad mass shooting at our American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) free speech event in Garland, Texas last May. [This was because if someone doesn’t have a fundamental understanding of the importance of the First Amendment, he is disqualified to be President. But the war that has been declared within our own ranks against Donald Trump is repulsive in the extreme, and getting worse by the day.   National Review dedicated an entire issue to attacking Trump, with the cover featuring a list of the heavy hitters on the Right who were lining up to bash Trump. They have no right to be heavy hitters on the Right. Whether you like Trump or not, it is wonderful that our tent is so genuinely diverse intellectually that he could be the front runner. It is to our credit. In the wake of that outrageous National Review issue dedicated to attacking, defaming, and destroying Donald Trump, the Weekly Standard, like the good little goose steppers they are, followed with an even more vicious attack on the Republican front runner. The Weekly Standard’s hit piece was illustrated with a photo of Trump as King Kong, as Weekly Standard editor William Kristol tweeted smug and silly apologies to King Kong: “Of course unfair to King Kong, who’s a noble and tragic figure. ” The Standard may depict Trump as King Kong, but they’re acting like Godzilla. Who died and made William Kristol king of the Right? He is following the dictum of Walter Ulbricht, General Secretary of the East German Communist Party: if the people don’t vote the way you want, “Change the people. ”  And the jihad against Trump continues. The irony is that what the GOP establishment is accusing Trump of doing is exactly what they themselves are doing. How imperial and autocratic of the establishment Right to dictate to the people who they can and cannot support. Their contempt for the people is anathema to who we are: Ronald Reagan always stood fast and insisted that we don’t eat our own. Remember his Eleventh Commandment: Thou shalt not speak ill of a fellow Republican. So what are the establishment Republicans doing? They talk about the Right imploding  —   they’re the ones who are setting off the suicide bombs. How often have conservatives swallowed that jagged little pill and supported the clown that the establishment put up? I have permanent dent marks in my nostrils from holding my nose to support John McCain for President. That was painful. And so was Romney, a   candidate in a   fight. But we did it, because that was who the Party picked. But now the people are picking.  Fox News is the only game in town for the Right, and yet Fox and the Republican establishment are more vicious and divisive than the Left. And the Left, not surprisingly, is loving it: the New York Times crowed that “Trump’s war on Fox News isn’t just a media spat. It’s part of a war for control against the power structure of the G. O. P.  —   whose appeals to cultural anxieties he has hijacked and dialed up to 11  —   and thus against Fox as an extension of it. (The   possibility of a Fox News at odds with the Republican nominee, should Mr. Trump win, would be one more weird twist in a campaign full of them. )” Trump’s war on Fox? What about Fox’s war on Trump? They’re supposed to be a news organization holding a debate. Yet their press release attacking Trump was snarky, baiting, adolescent  —   unworthy of what they claim to be. In reality, Fox News and Trump’s bête noire Megyn Kelly have jumped the shark. The love fest Tuesday night between Kelly and Michael Moore pulled back the curtain on the RINO news network. It was jarring. My tweet referring to the “love affair” between Kelly and Moore and adding that Fox News “hates Trump more than it loves its own integrity” was retweeted hundreds of times. Megyn has Michael Moore on her show? By way of comparison, Megyn Kelly has never once had me on  —   even in the wake of the assassination attempt in Garland, Texas and the Boston jihad plot to behead me for my “blasphemy. ” On the show, Moore gushed over Kelly: “You have to play ball with this network. Donald Trump today said ‘I’m not playing ball with this network.’ That’s a historic moment! [  …    ] You’ve made this happen. You’ve caused a crisis upstairs. ” He added: “God bless you, Megyn Kelly!”  My take? Megyn Kelly is angling to be the next evening news anchor on one of the big three networks. She aspires to be the next Diane Sawyer (the new haircut is a dead giveaway). As if that wasn’t bad enough, it came out soon afterward that Fox News plans to give an   Muslim supremacist a platform for her hatred. Nabeela Noor has smeared Trump as a bigot and likened him to Adolf Hitler. Fox needs to feature an Islamic supremacist in a debate? Really? Why not Ibn Warraq or Robert Spencer? Why not, finally, have a true scholar on jihadic doctrine instead of a soldier for Islamic supremacism? All this shows the bottom line: Trump was right to pull out of the debate. The GOP is imploding. If the GOP establishment and the RINOs had gone after the Democrats the way they’re going after Donald Trump, we would have been on a winning streak this past decade. They have done this for years to my colleagues and me. But when they try it with Trump, this is a target too big to ignore. The curtain has been pulled back: average Republicans now see what the GOP establishment has been doing to them for decades. Maybe this is what is needed, so as to expose Fox definitively and bring down the clueless, corrupt and compromised Republican establishment. Conservatives and the principled right have no media outlet  —   none. Is there not a conservative billionaire who can buy HLN or some failing liberal news outlet and relieve our abject misery? And while yes, I endorse Cruz, you can rest assured that if Donald Trump gets the nomination, I will vigorously support his candidacy with everything I have. Because that’s what we do. That’s who we are. And these men  —   Roger Ailes, William Kristol, Glenn Beck, Erick Erickson, Andrew McCarthy, John Podhoretz, and the rest  —   are yesterday’s men, as you will see as history steamrolls over the failed, weak, and corrupt Republican Party they represent.