Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton claimed ignorance when asked about her private email scandal at Monday night’s CNN town hall. [“Yes, I think that’s a fair criticism,” Clinton said of the Des Moines Register’s point that she should have apologized for the scandal sooner. “I have no intention of doing anything other than find a convenient way” to communicate, Clinton said. “It turned out not to be so convenient. ”  Clinton refused to call it an error in judgment. “Maybe being faster, trying to figure out what all of this means,” Clinton said, when asked what she could have done differently, suggesting that she did not know what she was doing was wrong and potentially illegal. “When you’re facing something like that, you’ve got to get the facts. And it takes time to get the facts,” Clinton said of her delayed response to the scandal. “Some of them are frankly a little embarrassing,” Clinton said of her released emails. “You find out sometimes that maybe I’m not the best at technology, things like that. ” Despite Clinton’s appeals to ignorance, the FBI investigation into her email scandal is heating up. The case hinges on whether Clinton violated a provision of the Espionage Act of 1913. The law (18 U. S. Code  793 subsection f) makes clear that anyone who has materials “relating to the national defense” cannot lose or give them away. The law is broken if “through gross negligence permits [materials] to be removed from its proper place of custody or delivered to anyone in violation of his trust, or to be lost, stolen, abstracted, or destroyed. ” The penalty? A fine, a prison term of up to ten years, or “both. ” Since the FBI seized Clinton’s emails in August, the scandal has haunted her campaign. Senior White House adviser Valerie Jarrett threw Clinton under the bus, saying that the White House provided guidance to the State Department, telling employees to use official government email accounts. Breitbart News first reported, based on   government sources, that of seven emails originally being analyzed by investigators to determine their classification status, two were deemed “Top Secret” and at least two were already classified when they were sent. Meaning, Clinton was sending and receiving classified information that she knew to be classified. The classifications were made by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Our exclusive report galvanized our readers and other media outlets, quickly picking up more than 12, 000 social media shares and 5, 000 comments. The Clinton campaign could not find a suitable talking point on the issue. The campaign tried to claim that Clinton did not send emails that were classified “when originated. ” But Intelligence Community Inspector General I. Charles McCollough, now under attack by Team Clinton, confirmed, “IC classification officials reviewed two additional emails and judged that they contained classified State Department information when originated. ” The inspector general went on to make a comprehensive report, filed earlier this month. He found that “several dozen” emails had classified information in them. “These declarations cover several dozen emails containing classified information determined  …     to be at the confidential, secret and top   levels,” McCollough wrote in a letter to Congress. That’s right. A “sap” level is an even higher classification status than “top secret. ” Clinton’s server was highly vulnerable to attack, like the kind that occurred to multiple of her email contractors and could have happened to her when she opened a   email from her friend. Breitbart News reported that Clinton’s server was operating on the same email network, and was housed in the same exact physical space, as the server for the Clinton Foundation, indicating that they were sharing a server. Additionally, that space was in New York City, not in the basement of Clinton’s Chappaqua, New York, home, as she claimed. Daughter Chelsea Clinton’s office was also using the email network. Numerous Clinton Foundation employees used the clintonemail. com server for their own email addresses, which means that they were using email accounts that, if hacked, would have given any hacker complete access to Hillary Clinton’s State Department emails, as well. Clinton’s server had an open webmail portal that gave potential hackers unrestricted access to Clinton’s personal information. In fact, Clinton’s server went down at least three times during her tenure as Secretary of State, including weeks after the Benghazi terrorist attack. Clinton never even told her own IT Help Desk at the State Department that she was using a private server, keeping them in the dark about her secret activities. Clinton even went so far as to hide the identity of the people running her private server, paying a company called Perfect Privacy, LLC. That company, based in Jacksonville, enters its own meaningless contact information into official Internet databases so that its clients’ identities will not be exposed.