A young Swedish woman employed at an asylum centre has died following an attack by a migrant at the centre, the Swedish news agency TT has reported. [The victim, 22   Alexandra Mezher, was rushed to a nearby hospital after being stabbed repeatedly, but later died.  Swedish police have refused to comment on the identity of the man whois suspected of murdered her but have stated that he is under arrest and will be charged with murder or manslaughter and that he was a resident of the centre. The centre in Mölndal is primarily for unaccompanied minors aged  . The motive for the attack remains unknown and police have not commented to media extensively about the case. Police spokesman Christer Fuxborg did tell Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet, “the woman who was taken to Sahlgrenska Hospital this morning died because of the injuries she received in connection with the altercation, relatives are informed. ” In Germany the violence toward LGBT people has grown so out of control that the city of Berlin has built special asylum centres just for them. The Lesbian and Gay association of   had at least 95 accusations of violence toward homosexual and transsexual refugees in the Berlin area from August to December of 2015 which occurred mostly in asylum centres.  Christians are another group that has been singled out by Muslim migrants for violence, leading an Orthodox Christian priest, Hegumen Daniil, to comment, “Christian Refugees from Syria, Eritrea, and other countries are exposed to humiliation, manhunt and brutal harassment at the camps for refugees by Muslim neighbours. ”  The sexual crimes of migrants made world headlines in the wake of the Cologne New Year’s attacks at the Cologne train station, but the frequency and severity of sex attacks within migrant camps is also a growing concern. A worker in a camp in Hamburg spoke out about the violence saying that at least 90 percent of the migrants were “unpleasant. ”  The social worker went on to talk about how the migrants view women saying, “they simply do not respect women at all,” and described how she had to dress more modestly to escape the sexual harassment from the migrants and even avoid, “going where lots of these single men are staying. ”  While there is a continuing trend of violence within the asylum centres, the murder of this young woman in Sweden might mark the first instance of a worker being killed by migrants.  Swedish police are currently being quiet about the case, which comes at a time they are under incredible pressure due to a report that accused police, government and media of covering up migrant crimes for years.