Hollywood writer and director Paul Schrader has called for violence following Donald Trump’s election as president of the United States. [Schrader, writer of cinematic classics such as Taxi Driver and Raging Bull, posted to his Facebook page Saturday night that Donald Trump’s election is a “call to violence,” claiming that he had heard a similar call in the 60s.  “I have spent the last five days meditating on Trump’s election,” wrote Schrader. “Upon consideration, I believe this is a call to violence. I felt the call to violence in the 60’s and I feel it now again. This attack on liberty and tolerance will not be solved by appeasement. ” “We should finance those who support violence resistance. We should be willing to take arms,” Schrader continued. “Like Old John Brown, I am willing to battle with my children. Alt right nut jobs swagger violence. It’s time to actualize that violence, Like by [sic] Civil War Michigan predecessors I choose to stand with the black, the brown and the oppressed. ” Many commenters on Schrader’s Facebook page disagreed with him, with one saying, “Paul Schrader is a rich fat old man who would do nothing to jeopardize his comfortable lifestyle. He will fantasize about being Travis Bickle (who he, himself, has said was no hero) while calling young people to fight his war for him. ” Travis Bickle, the main character of Schrader’s film Taxi Driver portrayed by actor Robert DeNiro, at one point attempts to assassinate a presidential candidate. Some celebrities seem to agree with Schrader, however, that Donald Trump cannot be allowed to act as president. Director Joss Whedon tweeted that Donald Trump, “CANNOT be allowed a term in office. ” This is simple: Trump cannot CANNOT be allowed a term in office. It’s not about 2018. It’s about RIGHT NOW,  —   Joss Whedon (@joss) November 14, 2016,  Conversely, other celebrities such as Oprah and Dave Chappelle have had much more calm and collected responses to Donald Trump’s victory. Everybody take a deep breath!  #HopeLives! pic. twitter.   —   Oprah Winfrey (@Oprah) November 10, 2016,  Violent protests continue across America in the wake of the presidential election. **UPDATE** Paul Schrader appears to have deleted his post, but an archived version of it can still be viewed here. Lucas Nolan is a reporter for Breitbart Tech covering issues of free speech and online censorship. Follow him on Twitter @LucasNolan_ or email him at lnolan@breitbart. com