Breitbart News shattered company traffic records in October, generating over 240 million pageviews and 37 million unique visitors. [“While several publishers have enjoyed an uptick in traffic due to election coverage, we are proud to have built a massive and   community that will remain long after the election cycle fades,” said Breitbart News CEO and President Larry Solov.  The conservative news giant’s explosive October growth was powered by a host of newly launched initiatives, as well as its #1 in the world political Twitter and Facebook page that generated a monthly Facebook reach of over 287 million. In the first half of the month, Breitbart launched its official Breitbart store featuring 31 original products. Two weeks after the store’s launch, the news company debuted the launch of Breitbart Deals by offering complimentary Clinton Cash DVDs for the price of shipping and handling. “We spent over a year developing the Breitbart store,” said Breitbart News COO Jon Kahn. “Our vision was to go beyond just products to create a lifestyle brand and aesthetic worthy of our 37 million person community. ” October also saw the expansion of Breitbart News’ growing radio and podcast offerings. Two new podcasts feature the   talents of two of Breitbart’s most   journalists,   Second Amendment reporter Dr. AWR Hawkins and Breitbart London’s always popular James Delingpole. Both shows are available on PodcastOne and iTunes. Former ESPN broadcaster and   World Series Champion, MVP, Major League Baseball superstar Curt Schilling also joined Breitbart News Network as host of the Network’s first online radio show, Whatever It Takes. The program airs Monday through Friday, 9:00 to 11:00 AM ET. Beyond radio, Breitbart also launched its wildly popular   feature during the third presidential debate in October. “Offering   debate   helped propel Breitbart to the #1 most shared Facebook content in the world on debate day,” said Breitbart News Managing Editor and Social Media Director Wynton Hall. “Our Facebook fans bested number two by over 150, 000 Facebook shares. ”  Despite the explosive October metrics, Breitbart News    Alex Marlow says it’s one more benchmark in a traffic trajectory that continues to climb.  “When we relaunched the website in 2012, we were doing about 12 million pageviews a month,” said Marlow. “To do exactly 20 times that figure last month feels pretty good. But we’re just getting warmed up and can’t wait to unveil some   initiatives in 2017. ”