With the media frantically hiding the content of Donald Trump’s terrorism speech from last week, he should respond to every question with the central point of that speech: How does this kind of immigration make our country better? How does it make the country safer? [Media: Show us your tax returns!  Trump: Show me how our immigration policies are good for the people who already live here. Media: Tell us why you fired Corey Lewandowski! Trump: Tell me how our immigration policies are making the country safer for the people who already live here. Media: How are you going to match Hillary’s corporate fundraising? Trump: How are our immigration policies helping the people who already live here? Sooner or later people will say, “That’s a good question  —   why is this necessary?” When the Third World immigrants admitted under Sen. Teddy Kennedy’s 1965 Immigration Act  —   as well as their children  —   commit mass murder, the government and media tell us it’s a gun problem. Or it’s “our” culture. Or it’s “homophobia. ” Or we have to keep admitting millions of Muslims because otherwise the ones already here will REALLY hate us. Isn’t that extortion? We’ve already admitted millions of Muslim immigrants, but if we don’t take in millions more, the ones we’ve admitted will go on killing sprees? How did we get in the position where we’re screwed if we’re not in the good graces of the Muslim community? Maybe we should stop doing that. As any competent health professional will tell you, prevention is always better than a cure. No one says, Go ahead and have sex with that syphilitic whore  —   we’ve got a cure! You don’t need to worry about a leaky roof  —   we’ve got mops! They know that’s not a good argument, which is why the media refuse to tell you what Trump actually said in his terrorism speech. Like defendants with a losing case being forced to cough up bits of discovery, it took the FBI a week to release a redacted transcript of the Orlando shooter’s 911 call pledging allegiance to ISIS. Even then, the first version came from George Orwell’s Ministry of Truth: “I pledge allegiance to (omitted) may God protect him (in Arabic) on behalf of (omitted). ” That was too much even for Speaker Paul “That’s Not Who We Are” Ryan, prompting the FBI to produce the full version of at least one of Omar’s calls. (It turns out, he wasn’t pledging allegiance to Wayne LaPierre or Phyllis Schlafly.) To hide the epidemic of immigrant mass murders, all the lists have to include massacres from a time when there weren’t many immigrants here  —   before Kennedy’s Immigration Act had fully kicked in and overwhelmed our country with the Third World. Fox News ran a chart compiled by Mother Jones magazine that includes mass shootings from the 1980s. Why not the 1960s? Why not include Bonnie and Clyde? Could we look at mass murders from the last decade? Those include: 2016: Orlando, Florida,   Afghan immigrant Omar Mateen  —   49 dead, 2015: San Bernardino, California,   and   Pakistani immigrants Tashfeen Malik and Syed Farook  —   14 dead, 2015: Chattanooga, Tennessee, Kuwaiti immigrant Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez  —   5 dead, 2014: Isla Vista, California,   immigrant from England, Elliot Rodger  —   6 dead, 2013: The Boston Marathon, Chechen immigrants Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev  —   4 dead, 2009: Fort Hood, Texas, Palestinian   immigrant Nidal Hasan  —   13 dead, 2009: Binghamton, New York, Vietnamese immigrant Jiverly Wong  —   13 dead, 2007: Virginia Tech, South Korean immigrant   Cho  —   32 dead. In the same time period, about a   mass murders were committed by American white men in their own country, where  —   despite Teddy Kennedy’s best efforts  —   they far outnumber Vietnamese, Pakistanis and Afghans. All the American shooters were visible nut cases, who never should have been let out of a  . Their psychotic episodes wouldn’t even count as mass shootings if committed by immigrants. Pakistani Naveed Haq’s 2006 mass shooting at the Seattle Jewish Federation, for example, isn’t generally included on lists of terrorist attacks because, according to his parents, he had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder and was on lithium. Why do we need this? How are our current immigration policies helping the people who already live here? How are they making our country better, stronger, safer? The operation to remake our country began with lies and has been sustained with lies ever since. Teddy Kennedy swore up and down that his 1965 Immigration Act would preserve America’s traditional “ethnic mix” and would not “inundate” our country with people from “deprived nations. ” In fact, his law brought in the poorest of the poor, from the most dysfunctional cultures in the world, and effected the most dramatic demographic transformation of any nation in all of human history. But today, you’re Hitler if you support Teddy Kennedy’s original claims about his own bill. COPYRIGHT 2016 ANN COULTER DISTRIBUTED BY UNIVERSAL UCLICK