Illegal aliens and supporters for a sanctuary city stood out in the rain in front of the city’s administration building on Thursday chanting, “Not on our watch,” and “One city, one fight. ” They want protection for illegal aliens, Muslims, and the LGBT community. [The Merced Sun Star reported about the gathering and press conference in Merced, California, a city located in Merced County in the Central Valley of Northern California. The population of the city is just a little over 80, 000 people.  A group called the Merced Organizing Project were reported to be thinking about asking city and county officials for solutions in becoming a “regional sanctuary” for illegal aliens. The report said supporters of the idea began talking about the idea after the election of Donald Trump. Members of the group, and another group called Faith in the Valley PICO partners, were said to be urging President Barack Obama to protect illegal aliens, and to give clemency for nonviolent drug offenders who are in jail. The PICO group are from five counties in California  —   Fresno, Kern, Merced, San Joaquin and Stanislaus. The call for a sanctuary city for illegal aliens in California is just the latest in the move by open border activists and Democrats to dig their heels in for sanctuary city protection. As reported by Breitbart Texas in   after the presidential election, the mayors of New York City, Seattle, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Chicago, and Providence showed great defiance at any suggestion of an   city law that would apply nationwide. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel said after the November 8th election, “Chicago always will be a sanctuary city,” NPR reported.  “To all those who are, after Tuesday’s election, very nervous and filled with anxiety   …     you are safe in Chicago, you are secure in Chicago and you are supported in Chicago. ” Chicago has some of the highest crime and murder rates of any city in the nation. This year, as Breitbart News reported in October, homicides had reached almost 600 in the   city. Breitbart Texas reported on Wednesday that there are forty sanctuary cities that are   on their commitment to open border,   sanctuary city immigration policies. Austin in Texas, and Berkeley, Los Angeles, Oakland, Richmond, and San Francisco in California are among the cities. New York, New York, Boston, Denver, Detroit, Jersey City, New Haven, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Portland, Syracuse, St. Paul and Tuscon are some of the cities among those listed. Texas is moving forward with legislation to block sanctuary city policies in the Lone Star State. State Senator Charles Perry ( ) introduced legislation in   to ban sanctuary cities in Texas, Breitbart Texas reported. The murderer of Kathryn Steinle, as reported by Breitbart California, said during an interview that he came to San Francisco because he knew he would not be deported. Juan Francisco   had been deported five times and was a   convicted felon. Mary Ann Mendoza, the mother of a police officer who was killed by a drunk illegal alien told Breitbart Texas: “When elected officials start taking actions to protect illegal criminals and as some have stated, using taxpayer money to offer legal assistance, you have to wonder what place Americans who have been affected by illegal crime have in this big picture. We are now becoming the group in the shadows, ignored by local politicians, shunned by mainstream media and standing on the sidelines watching illegal criminals getting more benefits and protection then our loved ones ever got. This insanity and the power hungry politicians using these issues for votes (from illegal aliens) to stay in office sickens me. Americans matter, Americans need protection and Americans should come first, after all, we do live in America, right?” Ms. Mendoza lost her son, Mesa Police Sergeant Brandon Mendoza, to an intoxicated criminal illegal alien. The    police officer from Mesa, Arizona, was killed when the drunk illegal alien drove down the wrong way on a highway. Mendoza said her son’s killer had previously been charged with burglary, assault of a peace officer, and fraud. He never appeared in court and was on the run for 12 years. He was caught at the border and they took him to Colorado where he was shown leniency and released. Ms. Mendoza said that “Donald Trump is the change this country needs,” Breitbart Texas reported in June. Breitbart News reported in late May that Sabine Durden, whose    son Dominic was murdered by an illegal alien, said she “lost it” when Donald Trump kissed her son’s poster. A video in the article captured Trump’s interaction with mothers who had lost their children to violence by criminal illegal aliens. Durden said that Dominic’s killer had committed two felonies but pleaded them down to one. He was deported and illegally returned and committed two DUI offenses for which he received probation. During the first DUI probation she said, he was caught again, and received probation. Three weeks later the criminal illegal alien killed her son by running into Dominic on his motorcycle with his truck. He was just under the legal limit for DUI. She said that despite what he had done, the criminal illegal alien only received a misdemeanor without gross negligence and a nine   years probation sentence. He only served 35 days. Durden told Breitbart Texas: “As a legal immigrant and now citizen, I take great offense to their action. It’s a slap in the face of every citizen, immigrant, and those going through the legal process of becoming citizens. We are a country of laws and those officials who think they are above the law need to be removed from office and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. The money and time spent on people that are here illegally comes out of the pocket of taxpayers and needs to be used on citizens and their needs. I can’t just walk into the mayor’s home with my family and demand he now has to take care of me because I don’t like where I live. ” The grieving mother asked, “Where is a sanctuary place for us victims to get away from the pain and grief caused by an illegal alien?” Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.