There I was playing Jack from “Jack and the Beanstalk,” pretending to climb a rope. Suddenly  —   boom!  —   the giant comes out, and several castmates and I erupt in a synchronized breakdance, mirroring one another’s moves. The crowd screams with a mixture of joy and fear, trying to make Jack hip to the fact that he’s about to be captured. This was all in a day’s work, as I was trying to be an actor and the only gig I could get was a diverse children’s theater troupe that was hiring my flavor. I joined Off Center Theater, a troupe that was mostly Latin and black, when I was 19. It was the  ’80s, and   and oversized clothes were the styles of the moment. We traveled around the city performing for kids in public schools. Spanish Harlem, East New York, my old neighborhood in Jackson Heights  —   all over. And I understood these kids because I used to be one of them myself. We actors knew they would rather be somewhere else, but we loved the challenge. It was my first hostile audience! (Well, after my family.) But we learned that once we started changing the plays up so they could relate, these audiences weren’t hostile at all  —   they actually loved it. I saw firsthand how hungry my young Latin people were to be entertained by their own. At the time, I was taking serious acting classes at HB Studio and the Lee Strasberg Institute. I was the only Latin kid in the room, and the plays we studied were written by white dudes. Still, I loved studying with the masters of acting. I was living in my brother’s dorm at Columbia University. I didn’t have enough to cover room and board, so I had to find work. So that’s how I ended up at Off Center. What seemed at first like a mere moneymaking thing turned into a   adventure. It was really   for me, bouncing between my brother’s room at Columbia and this rarefied world of privilege and opportunity, and then performing at public schools where there was never enough funding and the children and their families were struggling to get by. These were separate worlds in the same city. Sometimes it got me down  —   I felt like these kids didn’t have a chance. But it also showed me how kids in poverty learn to find joy in the little things that life has to offer. They have to make do. Look, I’m not saying you should put your children in poverty to make them happy. But growing up poor gives you a special perspective, and there’s a lot of value and strength in that. At the schools, we would update the classics. We did “Little Red Riding Hood,” where she was a fine black girl and all of a sudden the Big Bad Wolf would start  . We added slang, Spanglish and  . We did impressions of Michael Jackson and Stevie Wonder. One time we did Frankenstein’s monster as a breakdancer. We told jokes: “We were so poor my mother would take Polaroids of other kids playing with toys for Christmas. ” Things like that. Once a kid came up after a show and asked why he didn’t know that Jack from “Jack and the Beanstalk” was Latin. He said he was going to ask his mom why she never told him. Man, to see those kids squealing and jumping up from their seats was the biggest highlight of my life. I realized how important it was for them to see themselves and their culture reflected back to them, something the media of the time rarely attempted. Seeing their lingo, mannerisms and pop culture references onstage was a way of being validated. We may have been the first ones to really show them that who they were was important and cool. Especially in my Manhattan. But the biggest service being provided was what the kids gave me. They showed me that there was an audience of people who grew up just like me, hungry for material they could relate to. I figured if these Latin kids were into what I was doing, then Latin adults might be, too. I had never thought that before. No one ever told me. So eventually I was inspired to try to connect with new audiences. I performed at these downtown performance art venues that had more of a white   crowd. I saw that even though I was talking about Latin life, they, too, were hungry for an understanding of this sister culture to their own. I was testing the waters of what I could and couldn’t be, how far I could push the boundaries. But I soon saw that the boundaries were mostly in my own head. What I saw on TV and in movies and books did not apply to the real world. I found that the real world, once I gave it a chance, was pretty open and tolerant and curious.