Like many habits, the pursuit of good sushi can get expensive. At the extreme end, the cost includes airfare to Tokyo and bribes to hotel concierges. Even for New Yorkers who stick close to home, the price of keeping up to date on sushi is high and climbing.   sushi nuts have already had the $145 omakase and been served on both sides of the counter by the profoundly courtly employees of Kosaka tried Sushi Zo’s $200 omakase, the rice almost invisible under very long and very soft and unadorned ribbons of fish sat down to Ichimura’s $300 sonata of fish cured and seasoned in an emphatic style that descends from the days before refrigeration and handed over as much as $400 to  Sushi Ginza Onodera for nigiri and other dishes that are as minutely detailed as the interior is soaringly grand. For sushi chasers whose bank accounts are not   this all gets kind of depressing. Or consider the novice fan, who has begun to realize that there are realms of pleasure out there beyond tuna rolls from Duane Reade. What’s next? Sugarfish by Sushi Nozawa would like to be the answer. It’s not, but enough people believe it is, or want to believe, that getting inside this    restaurant on East 20th Street can be a test of patience. Sugarfish arrived with an    pedigree. Its branches around Los Angeles have an ardent following, and one of the chain’s founders, Kazunori Nozawa, was among the first sushi chefs to bring to that city a rigorously autocratic style. Specializing in omakase, he was known to yell at those foolish enough to stir wasabi into their soy sauce. Nobody yelled at me at Sugarfish, but the staff didn’t seem all that eager to feed me, either. I made my first assault on the host stand just after 6:30 one weeknight. (The place doesn’t do reservations.) I was alone and willing to wait even if it took until closing time  —   11 that night. What an optimist I was in those days. “We’re not taking any more names tonight,” a host announced. Later, I learned to stage my raids between 2 and 4 in the afternoon, not hours when I typically crave raw fish. One lucky day, I was in within 30 minutes and out before sunset. One can order sushi by the piece, but the servers and the printed menu heavily push the three “Trust Me” meals. This is a variant on omakase, which roughly means “I trust the chef,” but a Trust Me is not an omakase meal. It is, essentially, a set menu served in waves. All three start with chilled edamame and slices of tuna in ponzu, move on to several small courses of nigiri and end with a hand roll or two. The simplest, Trust Me Lite, is $27 and includes four pieces of nigiri the most expensive is the Nozawa Trust Me, with 12 pieces of sushi and two hand rolls at a price of $51. Each course zooms out of a window in the kitchen where sushi is made with unusual speed. Efficiency lets Sugarfish keep prices low, the volume high and the rice warm  —   a hallmark of what the critic Jonathan Gold has termed the School of Nozawa. The rice is not only warm. It’s seasoned with so much vinegar that it’s almost pickled. This makes it appealingly energetic, a quality that sets it apart from the rest of the food. The fish is uniformly soft and pretty, but none of it tastes much like fish. Sweet shrimp and sea scallops were both exactly as they should be. But there was no heft to the tuna, no depth to the salmon, and anybody who happens to like     species like mackerel or sardines is in the wrong restaurant. The menu and website make much of Mr. Nozawa’s connections among elite fishmongers, but the selection at Sugarfish rarely rises above entry level. The menu lists certain specials “when available. ” Sea urchin is one the last time I went, there wasn’t any. This has to be the only sushi restaurant in New York that can’t get its hands on sea urchin. Fresh wasabi may be too much to ask at Sugarfish’s prices, but there is no wasabi at all under the fish. This is weird. Where sushi is concerned, wasabi isn’t just a condiment. It’s the air in the tires. Sugarfish lets you apply your own from some concentric bloops of stuff that tastes like watery horseradish and looks like a green version of the poop emoji, without the smile. By the end of my third meal, I was desperate for some break in the monotony. If Mr. Nozawa had suddenly materialized to yell at me, I would have given him flowers.