Actor Viggo Mortensen, an early supporter of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign, has revealed he will not vote for the Democrats’ presumptive nominee, Hillary Clinton, in November and will instead cast his vote for Green Party candidate Jill Stein. [“If you want a woman then vote for Jill Stein,” the    Lord of the Rings star told the Daily Beast in an interview published Saturday. “If you really want a woman president  —   if that’s what you want  —   vote for Jill Stein. ”  Mortensen went on to add that he trusts Clinton “about as much” as he trusts presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump. “I think she’s dishonest, I don’t think she has the interests of working people at heart, and I think she’s shown that time and again,” he told the Beast. “All the things that Bernie Sanders said about her I agree with. ” While Mortensen won’t vote for Clinton, he certainly won’t cast a vote for Trump, who is expected to formally accept the Republican presidential nomination at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland this week. The actor told the Beast of Trump: “He’s only saying in cruder terms what really started with Reagan, but then took flight with Gingrich in ’94: the polarizing,   rhetoric of the Republican Party for the last several decades is coming home to roost. Trump is the logical conclusion. He’s not very nuanced in his diatribes, but he’s not saying anything very different than what [Paul] Ryan, [John] Boehner, [Dick] Cheney, and [Mitch] McConnell are saying. All of these guys have been engaging in the same divisive, racist politics. ” Mortensen, who stars in this month’s Captain Fantastic, formally endorsed Sanders in a November interview with Democracy Now. Sanders effectively dropped out of the presidential race by endorsing Clinton during a New Hampshire campaign stop earlier this month. “I wish that Bernie Sanders would be president, for many reasons,” Mortensen told the outlet then. “I think in many ways he speaks truth to power. ” Read Mortensen’s full interview with the Daily Beast here.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum