Kathleen Willey, one of the women who famously accused Bill Clinton of sexual assault, and has said she suffered acts of intimidation to silence her, used a radio interview on Sunday to broadcast a message to other possible female victims of Bill Clinton. [Stated Willey:  I would just like to encourage any woman who has suffered at the hands of Bill Clinton to please try to find the courage and bravery to come forth. Because it’s okay now. Nobody can hurt you now. It’s as simple as that. Nobody can touch you now. The word is out. You will be okay but you will be doing the right thing for all the right reasons and you will be helping your fellow sisters. Speaking on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” the popular Sunday talk radio program, Willey demanded that Hillary Clinton submit to a lie detector test to answer questions about whether she engaged in campaigns to silence or intimidate her husband’s female accusers. Klein doubles as Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief. Willey also telegraphed a message of encouragement for Donald Trump, who helped to skyrocket the issue of Clinton’s sex accusers to   status when the GOP frontrunner complained about the former president’s “terrible record of women abuse. ” Trump was responding to Hillary’s claim that the billionaire exhibited a “penchant for sexism. ” “If Hillary thinks she can unleash her husband, with his terrible record of women abuse, while playing the women’s card on me, she’s wrong!” tweeted Trump. Willey chimed in: “Thank you very much, Mr. Trump, for asking the right question at the right time. And please keep asking more. ” When Klein petitioned Willey to list the questions that Trump should ask, she replied: I think the next question he should ask Hillary is: “Mrs. Clinton, is it okay with you that your husband flies around in private jets with a convicted pedophile to a private island called ‘Orgy Island’ and be entertained by underage girls? The real word for that is pedophilia and human trafficking. Is that okay with you?” Willey was referring to Clinton’s association with billionaire Jeffrey Epstein, who served eighteen months in prison after being convicted of soliciting an underage girl for prostitution. The Daily Mail reported in May —  and MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough predicted this past Friday —  that Epstein could become an issue for Hillary Clinton’s campaign: Epstein’s reemergence in public view  —   he was last photographed in February 2011  —   will cause new headaches for Hillary Clinton’s   presidential campaign, and give her critics another opening to tar and feather her with scandal. Her husband, former US president Bill Clinton, has been associated with Epstein in the past  —   even traveling with him 10 times aboard his private aircraft, dubbed the “Lolita Express. ” Some of those trips included stops at Epstein’s private Caribbean compound that later became known as “orgy island. ” Since Clinton announced her presidential campaign in April, Willey has spoken out in numerous exclusive interviews on Klein’s show. In her latest interview on Sunday, Willey explained why she is motivated to talk publicly. My mission here is to educate. What I would like to be able to do is talk to college students who don’t know about what happened. Explain it to them. And make them understand what exactly happened back then. And then let them know all of the horrible, horrific, terrorizing details of what his wife did to his victims. That’s the story here. That’s the story  …     Instead of using that whole thing and feeling betrayed by it, she used it all as a political opportunity. You try to explain to people the consequences of what happens to these women when Hillary Clinton goes on the attack. It’s another woman who claims to be a woman’s advocate attacking these women. I mean, this woman absolutely terrified me. And I don’t get afraid easily. I’m pretty independent. Click below to listen to Klein’s interview with Willey.   ‘Campaign of intimidation’ Willey detailed numerous instances of what she says was a campaign aimed at intimidating her into silence before she could give a deposition in the Paula Jones sexual harassment lawsuit that threatened Bill Clinton’s presidency. But I mean, cats went missing. My wonderful German Shepherd —  big girl, never left my side. Disappeared into clear air for three days. I mean, I was absolutely panicked trying to find her  …     and three days later she just reappears  …     I came home and found a beautiful,   old healthy cat dead on the deck of my house, and the only way to get to my deck of my house is through my house. It has no access to the yard. I mean, I found a man in the middle of the night at the door of my walkout basement. I opened my car door, my tires were all slashed. Somebody found the car, found me, and flattened three tires with a nail gun. I opened up my car door one day and there was an unidentified, strange cell phone sitting right in the driver’s seat. Willey has also said that she received threats against herself and against her children by name. She recalled that late English author Christopher Hitchens filed an affidavit against his former longtime friend, Clinton aide Sidney Blumenthal, detailing the contents of a lunch conversation in which Blumenthal indicated there was a campaign afoot to smear Willey. Hitchens wrote about that lunch talk and his affidavit in an April 30, 1999 Vanity Fair article titled, “I’ll Never Eat Lunch in this Town Again. ” Hitchens related his conversation with Blumenthal and why he came to believe Willey’s allegations of intimidation. He recounted that the meal took place right after Willey had gone public on 60 Minutes with her sexual assault accusation against Clinton. Hitchens wrote: And what impressed me most at the time, and depressed me, too, was the tone of voice Sidney used in discussing this. “Yeah, her poll numbers are high now, but they’ll be down by the end of the week. You’ll see. ” There was a sort of “We’ll take care of her” tone that I didn’t like, and Carol and I couldn’t look at each other. However, as time went by, the significance of the conversation metamorphosed. I became convinced that, a few weeks before the lunch, Kathleen Willey had been threatened in person, had received threats against her children by name, and earlier had had her car brutally vandalized. I discovered that, within days of the lunch, she received a telephone call from a private detective named Jared Stern. Hired to invigilate her, he had sickened of his work and decided to give her an anonymous call warning her that she had influential enemies. It also appeared that Ms. Willey had been subjected to pressure by a politically connected tycoon named Nathan Landow, whom I knew by reputation as one of the less decorative members of Clinton’s   world. (Asked by the grand jury whether he spoke to Ms. Willey about her testimony in the Paula Jones lawsuit on his own behalf or on the president’s, Mr. Landow has taken the Fifth Amendment.) I refuse to believe for a second that Sidney knew anything about this, but in the week that we talked, the White House “found” and released Ms. Willey’s correspondence with Clinton. I say “found” because when these same letters had been subpoenaed in the Jones case in January 1998, they couldn’t be located anywhere. Just another day in Clinton’s Washington. Speaking to Klein, Willey demanded that Hillary Clinton take a lie detector test to answer for what she says the former First Lady did to her and other women. “I would like to challenge Hillary Clinton to take a lie detector test,” stated Willey. “And I would also like to challenge her to stand before her daughter and her granddaughter and explain why she will or will not take a lie detector test. “And I would also like to add that I took one. And I volunteered to take one. I drove to Washington and it was administered by the top polygraph expert in the country at the FBI Headquarters and I passed it. ” Breitbart’s Klein has been spotlighted by the news media in recent days for exclusively interviewing Bill Clinton’s famous sex accusers, including Juanita Broaddrick, Paula Jones, and Willey. Gennifer Flowers, who had consensual relations with Clinton, also warned about a Hillary presidency on Klein’s show. The interviews helped to spark the current debate about Bill’s alleged female victims, a topic that has engulfed Hillary’s frontrunning campaign. The Washington Post on Thursday cited a Breitbart article in which Klein described how his radio program had become “a support center of sorts” for Bill Clinton’s female accusers  —   “a   for these women to sound off about the way they were allegedly treated by both Bill and Hillary. ”