Muslims living in America need to alert the government when they see “hatred,” Donald Trump told a Muslim woman invited to the second presidential debate to ask a question about “Islamophobia” among Americans. [“Whether we like it or not, and we could be very politically correct, but whether we like it or not, there is a problem,” Trump told the woman. “And we have to be sure that Muslims come in and report when they see something going on. When they see hatred going on, they have to report it,” Trump said.  The questioner did not refer to Americans being killed in terror attacks, but suggested that Muslims are indirect victims of the jihad attacks. “With Islamophobia on the rise, how will you help people like me deal with the consequences of being labeled as a threat to the country after the election is over?” the questioner said.  There were no warnings about numerous pending Islamic attacks, including the Boston bombings, the 2015 San Bernardino attack and the recent bombings in New Jersey, despite evidence of extensive preparations. In his response to the question, Trump cited the San Bernardino attack: In San Bernardino, many people saw the bombs all over the apartment of the two people that killed 14 and wounded many, many people. Horribly wounded. They’ll never be the same. Muslims have to report the problems when they see them. In her response to the same question, Hillary Clinton criticized Trump for his insistence on greater cooperation from Muslims, and she downplayed the question of whether Muslims should do more to alert police when fellow Muslims are preparing to killed Americans.  It’s also very   and even dangerous to be engaging in the kind of demagogic rhetoric that Donald has about Muslims,” she said.   We need American Muslims to be part of our eyes and ears on our front lines. I’ve worked with a lot of different Muslim groups around America. I’ve met with a lot of them, and I’ve heard how important it is for them to feel that they are wanted and included and part of our country, part of our homeland security, and that’s what I want to see.  Clinton also insisted there’s no conflict between Islam and the   West, despite the statements by Islamic attackers that they’re motivated by Islam.  We are not at war with Islam. And it is a mistake and it plays into the hands of the terrorists to act as though we are. So I want a country where citizens like you and your family are just as welcome as anyone else. Under President Barack Obama, various Islamic political groups have opposed bipartisan demands for cooperation, and have successfully lobbied for restrictions on FBI investigations. These groups have also successfully pushed the establishment media to use the term, “Islamophobia” which suggests that Americans’ reaction to terror attacks is excessive.      