Joe Concha writes at Mediaite about Dana Loesch of Glenn Beck’s TheBlaze lashing out at Trump supporter and CNN contributor Kayleigh McEnany. Below is an excerpt of Concha’s article (emphasis in the original). [When we look back on the 2016 presidential race, here’s one word that won’t come to mind: Maturity. Oh, we can all do the easy thing here and point the finger at one Donald J. Trump, but we were all professionals before this race began and will be again after it ends. Using Trump as an excuse to jump into the rhetoric swamp is the stuff of elementary school  …     the kind of   that usually ends with, “But, but  …     HE started it. ” Exhibit A today comes courtesy of The Blaze’s Dana Loesch, who elevated the conversation from elementary school to about 8th grade when attacking one Kayleigh McEnany, a Trump supporter and CNN contributor. Attacks are fine if the argument is based on the merits, of course, that’s all part of the contract. But Losche decided to bring McEnany’s bra size into the equation during her radio show  —   calling her “ ” in an attempt to be, like, provocative and stuff. And in doing so, walked right into quicksand after it was revealed via the Daily Caller’s Betsy Rothstein that McEnany appears the way she does because of a   she had performed a few years ago because she is what’s called   positive. Note also courtesy of Rothstein: McEnany had eight aunts who were diagnosed with breast cancer, hence the preventive approach. “Where were you several years ago?” Loesch asked, apparently unaware that new pundit players come into the cable news fold every election cycle. “Because I surely didn’t see you to my right or to my left. ” To answer Loesch’s question, here’s an answer where McEnany has been via her bio: “She has an extensive history in academia, studying both law and politics at Harvard Law School. She graduated from Georgetown University, School of Foreign Service with a BSFS in International Politics. She also studied politics at Oxford University, St. Edmund Hall. ” “Baby cakes, this was more than just going on television and flashing your pearly whites and your flat chest, red dress,   bleach blond hair while you sit and preach all this stuff about who is or isn’t a conservative?” Loesch continued. “You like Trump  —   let me act like him for a minute. I bet you love me now. ” Yup  …     just another dumb blonde on TV who happened to study at Georgetown, Oxford and Harvard Law. Now  …     let’s be fair here: Loesch had no idea her target underwent such surgery. But this is where the mature part  …     the part where an adult emerges and ego is put aside  …     comes in: Instead of apologizing for the remark, instead of swearing she had no idea and shouldn’t have gone there anyway, the host regresses from 8th to 2nd grade and doubles down with a “Trump started it” excuse around the insults he’s made  …     or something. So on DanaPlanet, that means his supporters are allowed to be attacked in the same fashion. TheBlaze. com loves it all, of course, even featuring the rant on its popular page. Asked why she got so personal, Loesch’s explanation defies logic  …     Read the rest here.  Below is the video that sparked this controversy: 