In the wake of Hillary Clinton’s health scare during the September 11 commemoration event Sunday morning and her campaign’s belated admission that she had been diagnosed with pneumonia, filmmaker Michael Moore has urged the Democratic presidential candidate to take a break from the campaign trail. [“Hillary: U need to REST. Take the wk off. Take 2. Let the rest of us pull the weight. Every1 can do a little. Who’s   me? Tweet *IWorkHRest,” Moore tweeted on Sunday.  Hillary: U need to REST. Take the wk off. Take 2. Let the rest of us pull the weight. Every1 can do a little. Who’s   me? Tweet #IWorkHRest,  —   Michael Moore (@MMFlint) September 11, 2016,  Responding to videos appearing to show Clinton requiring help from several aides in getting into her motorcade van, Moore criticized her staff for not “helping her. ” Feel so sorry for Hillary. Watch the video of her at van. Hardly any1 helping her. Just 1 woman on her arm at 1st. Men just standing around.  —   Michael Moore (@MMFlint) September 11, 2016,  No husband, no Huma, SS looking like keystone cops  pathetic campaign hacks more concerned about blocking view of cameras than helping her.  —   Michael Moore (@MMFlint) September 11, 2016,  Clinton’s campaign announced on Sunday that the candidate had been diagnosed with pneumonia on Friday. “Secretary Clinton has been experience a cough related to allergies. On Friday, during follow up evaluation of her prolonged cough, she was diagnosed with pneumonia. She was put on antibiotics, and advised to rest and modify her schedule. While at this morning’s event, she became overheated and dehydrated,” Clinton’s doctor, Dr. Lisa Bardack, said in a statement. Moore supports Clinton’s candidacy but has derided the Democrat as “Wall Street’s paid candidate. ” The   ripped Clinton’s campaign for keeping her pneumonia diagnosis “hidden” from the public for three days. Well, pneumonia. That’s serious. Campaign kept it hidden   . No wonder the crazies get traction. Dems are pros at losing elections.  —   Michael Moore (@MMFlint) September 11, 2016,  Republican presidential contender Donald Trump has questioned Clinton’s strength and stamina in recent weeks. However, Trump said Monday that he finds “no satisfaction” in Clinton’s health woes. “It was quite sad, to be honest with you,” Trump said on CNBC’s Squawk Box “I hope she gets well soon. She was coughing very, very badly a week ago. This wasn’t the first time. I want her to get better, I want her to get out there. I look forward to seeing her in the debate. ” During a special edition of HBO’s Real Time with Bill Maher in July, Moore predicted: “Trump is going to win. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson