Video footage has emerged documenting the outrage and desperation of 1, 400 American workers as they are informed that their company will be sending their jobs to Mexico.[  As Mediaite reports: “A cell phone video taken at Carrier Air Conditioner in Indianapolis shows the exact moment that the plant and union workers were told that the company had decided to shift production south of the border. ‘The best way to stay competitive and protect the business for longterm is to move production from our facility in Indianapolis to Monterrey, Mexico,’ says the company representative at the microphone. ” “Let’s quiet down,” the company representative says as the American workers of different races and ethnicities begin to shout out after being told that they will soon be out of a job. Although the establishment media seems loath to report it, globalist trade deals and the   of American jobs have become a central focus of the 2016 race —   as earlier this month President Obama’s signed what could arguably be one of the impactful trade agreements in modern history, the   Partnership. The Economic Policy Institute has documented that “Between 1993 (before NAFTA took effect) and 2013, the U. S. trade deficit with Mexico and Canada increased from $17. 0 billion to $177. 2 billion, displacing more than 850, 000 U. S. jobs. ” “More than 5 million U. S. manufacturing jobs were lost between 1997 and 2014, and most of those job losses were due to growing trade deficits with countries that have negotiated trade and investment deals with the United States,” the report states. Mexico is a member country of the TPP. The Economic Policy Institute notes, “the United States already has a large and growing trade deficit with the 11 other countries in the proposed TPP, which reached $265. 1 billion in 2014. In contrast, the United States had a small trade surplus with Mexico in 1993, before NAFTA took effect. In other words, outsourcing to the TPP countries is a potentially much greater threat than it was under NAFTA with Mexico. ” Donald Trump has made his opposition to the   Partnership a focal point of his campaign. To date, he is the only candidate to respond to Jeff Sessions’ candidate questionnaire, which addresses the critical issue of trade. Marco Rubio previously endorsed the TPP, although he now says he will not tell voters how he will vote on the deal until most of the primaries are over. While Cruz now says he will not support the TPP “in its current form,” Cruz had previously supported Obama’s trade agenda. Cruz had even   an   with Paul Ryan in the Wall Street Journal in favor of   TPP. On May 22nd, Cruz voted for   TPP, before he eventually reversed his support for   citing specific concerns about the deal’s provisions regarding immigration law and the   bank. Throughout his campaign, Trump has repeatedly pledged to crack down on the offshoring of American jobs. This has been a central platform of Trump’s campaign since the day he began his bid for the Presidency. As he declared when he first announced his candidacy over half a year ago, “Ford announced a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2. 5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico. $2. 5 billion, it’s going to be one of the largest in the world. Ford. ” And guess what? No problem. They’re going to build in Mexico. They’re going to take away thousands of jobs. It’s very bad for us. So under President Trump, here’s what would happen: the head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news  …     And he’ll say, ‘Please, please, please.’ He’ll beg for a little while, and I’ll say, ‘No interest.’ Then he’ll call all sorts of political people, and I’ll say, “Sorry, fellas. No interest,” because I don’t need anybody’s money  …     I don’t need anybody’s money. I’m using my own money. I’m not using the lobbyists. I’m not using donors. I don’t care.