UPDATES:[Photos, videos, and new developments:  Someone fired shots at Milwaukee Police Department headquarters today. . @MilwaukeePolice have covered the windows at District 7. MPD: shots were fired at the building today. #Milwaukee pic. twitter.   —   Theo Keith (@TheoKeith) August 14, 2016,  Revealed: the name of the man fatally shot before the riots  —   and the ethnicity of the officer. UPDATE: #Milwaukee chief says the police officer who fatally shot a black man is also blackhttps:  .  pic. twitter.   —   10News WTSP (@10NewsWTSP) August 14, 2016,  Governor Scott Walker declares a State of Emergency in Milwaukee County and deploys the National Guard.   Milwauke Police Association strongly rejects a Black Lives   angle in their response to last night’s chaos. “Our ranks are broad and diverse derived from all God’s children  …     Leadership must denounce riotous behavior!” Milwaukee Police Association with a   statement on overnight violence: pic. twitter.   —   Evan McMurry (@evanmcmurry) August 14, 2016,  Sheriff Clarke requests National Guard mobilization. Sheriff David Clarke requests National Guard mobilization in Milwaukee: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   TODAY’S TMJ4 (@tmj4) August 14, 2016,  Trump will campaign in the area Tuesday. Breitbart’s Neil McCabe reports: Donald J. Trump rallies supporters in the Milwaukee suburb of West Bend, Wisconsin Tuesday, two days after protesters unleashed a wave of angry mobs, gunfire and arson upon the state’s largest city, which sits 90 miles due north from Chicago on Lake Michigan’s west coast. This video of a young man explaining the cause has been making the rounds: They always find ”this dude” to put on camera  #milwaukee pic. twitter.   —   ITSBIZKIT (@itsbizkit) August 14, 2016,  A bystander offers some colorful commentary at a business being looted (NSFW language): People are breaking into gas station after 23 year old male was shot and killed by #mpd officer. 😔  #milwaukee pic. twitter.   —   ITSBIZKIT (@itsbizkit) August 14, 2016,  More footage from #Milwaukee tonight. A gas station was burned down in response to the execution of another Blk man pic. twitter.   —   Tariq Nasheed (@tariqnasheed) August 14, 2016,  Gas station at Sherman and Burleigh set on fire. MFD cannot extinguish fire as gunshots are being fired.  —   Milwaukee Police (@MilwaukeePolice) August 14, 2016,  Police stand by as car burns. Was told it’s not safe for firefighters due 2     https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Mike De Sisti (@mdesisti) August 14, 2016,  Our reporters were chased, one was thrown to the ground and beaten, but they’re all out and safe. Our coverage: https:  .   —   Journal Sentinel (@journalsentinel) August 14, 2016,  Shots fired right in front of our car. Gunman ran by us while shooting. We’re ok. Sherman and Burleigh is mayhem, no control @WISN12News,  —   Ben Hutchison (@BennyHutch) August 14, 2016,  Crowd breaks widows of unoccupied squad near Sherman and Auer. Other squad set afire and broken windows on another. pic. twitter.   —   Milwaukee Police (@MilwaukeePolice) August 14, 2016,  Violence erupts after   shooting https:  .  via @journalsentinel @aluthern #milwaukee pic. twitter.   —   Mark Hoffman (@MJSphotog) August 14, 2016,  *** Late on Saturday afternoon police in Milwaukee, Wisconsin shot an armed suspect fleeing from a car on the city’s North Side. Not long after the shooting a large group of residents initiated a confrontation with police that included at least one squad car being burned. A gas station and other autos were also torched. The   shooting occurred at around 3:30 PM and involved two MPD officers who had stopped a car near the 3200 block of N. 44th Street. The two suspects inside fled on foot with the officers giving chase. In short order one of the suspects pointed a   pistol at the officers and was killed, according to CBS. In the hours after the shooting groups of residents in the mostly   neighborhood gathered near the crime scene and soon began taunting police officers investigating the incident. The taunting continued for some time and then turned violent, with police cars being swarmed and pelted with bricks and rocks as a   riot broke out. Some 100 protesters engaged in a standoff with police, some of whom had responded in riot gear. As the riot grew in intensity cop cars were stoned and one set aflame. The conflagration grew from there with other cars being set on fire. A local gas station also became engulfed in flames. The MPD said that someone in the crowd began firing shots, perhaps in the air, according to the Milwaukee Sentinel. There have yet to be reports of anyone being hit by gunfire. Police also reported on Twitter that Milwaukee fire fighters were kept from extinguishing the flames because shots were being fired by some of the rioters. Gas station at Sherman and Burleigh set on fire. MFD cannot extinguish fire as gunshots are being fired.  —   Milwaukee Police (@MilwaukeePolice) August 14, 2016, Officials added that thus far one officer was injured by a brick thrown through the windshield of his squad car. MPD officer undergoing treatment at local hospital after brick thrown through squad window, striking officer in the head.  —   Milwaukee Police (@MilwaukeePolice) August 14, 2016, Milwaukee Police Assistant Chief Bill Jessup told the media on Saturday evening that the    man shot earlier in the day had a lengthy police record. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.