  Clint Eastwood believes that Donald Trump is benefitting from a trend in American culture by saying what he believes, despite criticism from all sides. [“He’s onto something, because secretly everybody’s getting tired of political correctness, kissing up,” Clint Eastwood said in an interview with Esquire. “That’s the   generation we’re in right now. We’re really in a pussy generation. Everybody’s walking on eggshells. ”  Eastwood specifically cited Trump’s comments criticizing a judge who was born to Mexican parents, but indicated he was tired of the media fueled controversy, “He’s said a lot of dumb things. So have all of them. Both sides,” he said “But everybody  —  the press and everybody’s going, ‘Oh, well, that’s racist,’ and they’re making a big hoodoo out of it. Just fucking get over it. It’s a sad time in history. ” Eastwood said that he hadn’t spoken to Trump about an endorsement, and hadn’t endorsed anyone for president. He clarified that he didn’t agree with everything that Trump said, but indicated that it was refreshing to see an unfiltered politician. “He’s just saying what’s on his mind and sometimes it’s not so good,” he said. “And sometimes it’s   …     I mean, I can understand where he’s coming from, but I don’t always agree with it. ” But given the choice between Trump or Clinton, Eastwood suggested that he would probably vote for Trump because Clinton represented more of what Obama did to the country. “I’d have to go for Trump   …     you know, ’cause she’s declared that she’s gonna follow in Obama’s footsteps,” he said, calling Clinton “a tough voice to listen to for four years. ” Eastwood criticized political figures who were using their position to make money, citing “too much funny business on both sides of the aisle. ” “She’s made a lot of dough out of being a politician,” he said, referring to Clinton. Overall, however, Eastwood seemed dissatisfied with both Trump and Clinton. “Everybody is boring everybody. It’s boring to listen to all this shit. It’s boring to listen to these candidates,” he said. He added that an ideal candidate should more understanding instead of trying to insult his way to victory. “[G]et in there and get it done,” he advised, citing his father. “Kick ass and take names. ”