For her wedding, Hannah Spinrad welcomed 250 guests to Greensboro, N. C. her hometown, on Memorial Day weekend last year. The guests stayed at the   Grandover Resort and enjoyed a stream of activities, from a golf tournament to snacking in the hospitality suite. The bride was always there to ensure that details were executed flawlessly and that guests were mingling and happy. For a few hours on that Saturday, however, Mrs. Spinrad, 30, who now lives in Atlanta with her husband, Kyle Spinrad, took a break from playing the perfect host to go on a   run with her father. Escaping her guests to exercise may have seemed odd since she was already inundated with activities and wanted to be there for everyone. But this was her tradition with her dad, something she always did when she was home, and it was a chance for them to connect and relax. In retrospect, it was one of the best decisions she made. Before the run, she felt stressed, worrying about how everything was going. Afterward, she had a clear head and a new perspective. “Much of that weekend was a blur to me, but I actually remember that run,” she said. “It was a sense of normalcy, a chance to say, ‘Everyone is here, everyone is happy, and we’re O. K.’ It was my relaxing moment. ” She didn’t get upset even when she had to move the ceremony inside because of rain. Most brides and grooms feel jittery, said Allison   a psychotherapist based in     Mass. who specializes in counseling   . Couples have the logistical stress of pulling off a wedding and dealing with all of the people and perspectives involved. They are also going through an emotional transformation. “You are making this profound identity change, and you are doing it in public, and you don’t know how you are going to react,” Ms.   said. “It’s overwhelming, and that’s O. K. It should be. ” Instead of being caught off guard by that tension, some brides and grooms are taking creative steps to calm themselves on the big weekend, some not all that far removed from having their teddy bears accompany them down the aisle. Some, like Mrs. Spinrad, are reserving time to exercise. Ben Oberman, 32, a doctor in Durham, N. C. was particularly nervous about his wedding because some relatives disapproved of his fiancée, now his wife, Jacquelyn Scott Oberman. “I knew part of my family wasn’t going to be there,” he said. “I thought, was I alienating my family? Was everything going to be fine?” Dr. Oberman and his best man took off on a hike in a petrified forest near the wedding site in Sonoma County, Calif. He shared his fears, rehearsed his vows and took in the natural beauty around him. By the end of the trail, he was ready to get married. “It was a soothing environment, and I was with someone I could trust and who would be there for me no matter what,” he said. Rachael Babington, a Manhattan yoga instructor, has received so many requests from women who wanted to attend a class before their weddings that she started the company Brides Love Yoga. In the busy summer, she has two clients a day. She arrives at sites with a yoga mat and shows brides poses that help to open their hearts and focus their minds. Mrs. Spinrad said it could be strange to do something restorative on your wedding day. “It’s already a   experience that is already supposed to be all about you, so you don’t necessarily think you need to take time for yourself,” she said. “But that means you have to do things to keep your perspective even more, because everything else seems like the biggest deal. ” Before leaving for her rehearsal diner at the Atlantic Golf Club in Bridgehampton, N. Y. last September, Claudia Davidson, 28, who works for UberEats in Washington, packed her clutch. Alongside her wallet and lip balm she put in a piece of her childhood blanket, which her late grandmother made. “It’s sort of something I take with me when I feel like I need backup,” she said. “I knew I was going to be overwhelmed being in the center of attention, so it was nice to have a little sentimental keepsake in my purse just in case. ” She turned to it during her rehearsal dinner, but felt confident enough to forgo it on her wedding day. Ms.   said: “I’ll call that a transitional object. Bringing along something that brings you comfort, why not? You are feeling vulnerable. ” Laurie Mehlman, 31, of Marietta, Ga. let her mother slip a red ribbon, an item that Jewish tradition says wards off evil, into her shoe before her wedding ceremony. “I had just started getting nervous, and having that little connection calmed me down,” she said. Her husband, Ross Mehlman, 30, had his own batch of nerves. “I think it was the   and everyone looking at you and you have to make a speech and everyone wants to talk to you that night,” he said. He dealt with his another way: He and his groomsmen watched his college team play football on television. “It quickly morphed from me sitting in a temple in a conference room waiting for my wedding to me and my best friends sitting around chilling out,” he said. Some people ask mental health professionals to help them with their anxiety. Hillary Evans, a hypnotherapist in Charleston, S. C. has brides come to her many reasons: They want to lose weight and can’t, they are fighting with relatives or friends, they are obsessing over details or they are terrified of giving their speeches. She uses traditional hypnosis to give them new perspectives. She teaches them how to visualize their success and slow down moments so they don’t get out of control and can be savored. Ellyn Gamberg, a psychotherapist in New York, encourages clients to see weddings as rehearsals for real life. “How you navigate what you do in preparing for the wedding and the actual wedding day will be the exact same issues, the same concerns, the same fears, the same dynamics with people and within your self that you will have to struggle with for the rest of your life,” she said. “So I say, ‘Get them right during the process so you get them right for life. ’” She spends months, even years, helping clients figure out the roots of their anxieties. But sometimes even that is not enough. Every year she attends many ceremonies, just to be there for clients in case they panic. “People bring things to weddings, their baby blanket, their pet, their lucky charm,” Dr. Gamberg said. “And some people bring their therapist. It makes them feel better. ”