Hillary Clinton rubbed elbows with Hollywood   Monday night at an intimate, $33, 000   “dinner and conversation” fundraiser at the New York City home of   producer Harvey Weinstein. [Leonardo DiCaprio, Jennifer Lopez, Matthew Broderick and his wife Sarah Jessica Parker   the event at Weinstein’s apartment. The dinner was attended by about 50 people and brought in a whopping $1. 8 million for Clinton’s campaign in just two hours, Deadline reported.  Other celebrities at the fundraiser included Candice Bergen, Bethenny Frankel and fashion designers Vera Wang and Tory Burch. The menu reportedly included chicken and lobster, according to the New York Post‘s Page Six. The celebrities were also reportedly warned not to tweet or take pictures once inside, as there was a strict “no social media” policy instituted at the event. The Monday night event  —   with proceeds going to the Hillary Victory Fund joint fundraising committee  —   adds to Clinton’s comfortable cash lead over presumptive GOP nominee and her chief rival, Donald Trump. According to an FEC report filed Monday, Clinton’s campaign had $42 million    as of May 31, and the   Super PAC Priorities USA had another $52 million. Trump’s campaign had just $1. 3 million in the bank as of May 31, according to CNN. Clinton has dominated Trump in Hollywood fundraising, where she has raised more than $12 million from entertainment industry hotshots including Steven Spielberg, Jeffrey Katezenberg, Haim Saban, J. J. Abrams, Tom Hanks, Barbra Streisand and Morgan Freeman. The presumptive Democrat nominee also counts the support of several   Hollywood bundlers like Howie Mandel (not the TV star) and CAA agent Michael Kives. Trump, meanwhile, has raised just $156, 000 from the entertainment industry, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. However, the GOP nominee began hosting fundraisers in Los Angeles last month and counts the support of a small but influential group of Hollywood conservatives, including actor Jon Voight.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  