Last week over 500 people gathered in Cleveland at the LGBTrump party. Guests included prominent gay Republicans Milo Yiannopoulos, columnist and frequent Fox News guest Chris Barron, and Jim Hoft (aka Gateway Pundit) as well as LGBT allies such as Pamela Geller, Geert Wilders, and myself. [Thanks to the Trump campaign, the LGBTrump party was the first to receive newly printed Trump Pence 2016 posters. In addition to campaign signs, one of the most popular items of the night was posters of the party invite that was designed and drawn by the team behind the forthcoming hit, Clinton Cash: A Graphic Novel.  Soon  …    . @Nero pic. twitter.   —   Lisa De Pasquale (@LisaDeP) July 19, 2016, Of course, the event was a hit thanks to sponsors Breitbart News and Gateway Pundit, an enthusiastic crowd, gracious speakers, and, most importantly, thorough and dedicated FBI agents and police officers. The party was followed by a historic moment when entrepreneur Peter Thiel proclaimed on the final day of the conference and in primetime, “Every American has a unique identity. I am proud to be gay. I am proud to be a Republican, but most of all I am proud to be an American. ” The crowd of GOP stalwarts, donors, and delegates gave Thiel a standing ovation, which must have confused the people who have been listening to media calling us bigots and homophobes. In fact, I’m surprised the media didn’t try to report it as an “attempted  . ” Needless to say, Democrats and their cohorts in the media are running scared. Prior to the LGBTrump party, I saw many mainstream members of the media begging to gain access to the party. Organizers were happy to do so because they wanted to show the diversity  —   in ideology and identity  —   of Trump supporters. The next day the media coverage was predictable. Apparently new to how   events work, they pounced at the fact that certain people they deem “white nationalists” attended the event. Under their silly standards, I should probably be worried that people might think I knowingly attended an event with Joan Walsh from The Nation and MSNBC. I swear I didn’t know she would be there! Ironically, you know the media coverage was laughably bad when one of the most accurate stories of the event was put out by Rolling Stone. (One correction: The Trump coloring books, as well as Milo’s Dangerous Faggot Tour   were free to attendees.) LGBTrump founder and party organizer Chris Barron told me: The attacks on our party by the   press are not surprising.  The ideological plantation masters of the left are terrified that Donald Trump is freeing LGBT people from the Democratic Party. The liberal press could have written about how many   conservatives were there to show support for the LGBT people  —   instead they showed up with an ideological axe to grind. The good news is that our event and the Trump campaign on a larger scale is bypassing the mainstream media and taking the message directly to LGBT Americans. After Wikileaks released nearly 20, 000 of emails from   staffers at the Democratic National Committee, it has become even more apparent that the stronghold Democrats have on the   “gay vote” might be crumbling. After searching through the emails, I found this gem: DNC on what constitutes a “good gay”. ” pic. twitter.   —   Lisa De Pasquale (@LisaDeP) July 22, 2016, While the email message of a “good gay” might be in good fun, it underscores how the left divides every group  —   women, gays, blacks, Hispanics  —   into good and bad based on their loyalty. Good ones are liberal and bad ones are conservative. While some pretended that the email about what constitutes a “good gay” was harmless, celebrity blogger Perez Hilton cleared it up for everyone: @DrSheikha_ @LisaDeP @PerezHilton I see zero wrong. Scott’s a good gay. Just like Milo is a bad gay. xoxo,  —   Perez (@ThePerezHilton) July 23, 2016, At last week’s party there were a handful of Westboro Baptist   followers who protested the event. This election is exposing the truth about liberals like Perez Hilton, the media and the DNC who now find themselves on the same side of the protest line as the contemptible “God Hates Fags” crowd.