Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon and Aaron Klein, the website’s Jerusalem bureau chief, discussed how the new media has successfully bypassed mainstream outlets to break major stories on Bill and Hillary Clinton’s alleged war on female sex assault accusers. [The comments were made on Breitbart News Daily, the morning radio program. Klein was discussing his exclusive interview Sunday with Kathleen Willey, one of the women who famously accused Bill Clinton of sexual assault, and has said she suffered acts of intimidation to silence her. You can hear the entire exchange below:   During the interview, Willey asked other possible female victims of Bill Clinton to speak out. She stated: “Nobody can touch you now. The word is out. You will be okay, but you will be doing the right thing for all the right reasons and you will be helping your fellow sisters. ” Speaking to Breitbart News Daily host Bannon, Klein explained, “It’s not like the ’90s. It’s not like 2000. The environment has changed” regarding societal attitudes toward sex assault accusers. Bannon chimed in: The attitude has changed. The environment has changed. And also there’s now new media. There is Aaron Klein and he has got a massive global platform called Breitbart and Breitbart News Daily. You’ve   the ability of the New York Times, the Washington Post. For Sidney Blumenthal to go in there and put pressure on these media organizations and have them play ball. The biggest change is now you’ve got full access and she can have access every day of the week on a massive news site and in a massive radio show. Klein replied: Now, actually, in spite of the news media, and because of Breitbart and others, now Hillary is being asked about this. Bill is going out in public, and NBC and others are asking him about the interviews you see at Breitbart. It is absolutely amazing. Last week, Clinton was caught on video avoiding reporters’ questions about Juanita Broaddrick, who previously accused Clinton of raping her and spoke out on Klein’s radio show in November. Last week, Broaddrick tweeted about the rape, generating a new flurry of news media activity. This after Hillary Clinton was repeatedly heckled about Broaddrick at a town hall event in Derry, New Hampshire by Katherine Prudhomme O’Brien, a GOP state representative from Rockingham. Donald Trump  helped to skyrocket the issue of Clinton’s sex accusers to   status when the GOP frontrunner complained about the former president’s “terrible record of women abuse. ” Trump was responding to Hillary’s claim that the billionaire exhibited a “penchant for sexism. ” “If Hillary thinks she can unleash her husband, with his terrible record of women abuse, while playing the women’s card on me, she’s wrong!” tweeted Trump. Breitbart’s Klein has been spotlighted by the news media in recent days for exclusively interviewing Bill Clinton’s famous sex accusers, including Broaddrick, Paula Jones, and Willey. Gennifer Flowers, who had consensual relations with Clinton, also warned about a Hillary presidency on Klein’s show. The interviews helped spark the current debate about Bill’s alleged female victims, a topic that has engulfed Hillary’s frontrunning campaign. The Washington Post on Thursday cited a Breitbart article in which Klein described how his radio program had become “a support center of sorts” for Bill Clinton’s female accusers  —   “a   for these women to sound off about the way they were allegedly treated by both Bill and Hillary. ”