Lionsgate has picked up DVD distribution for Dinesh D’Souza’s Hillary’s America: The Secret History of the Democratic Party, Breitbart News learned exclusively on Monday. [The third feature documentary from the conservative filmmaker will be released on DVD,   Digital HD and on demand on October 11.  “This is the third film in which we partnered with Lionsgate to distribute our DVD and I appreciate the working relationship we have built over the years,” D’Souza told Breitbart News in a statement. “This film is in the very center of the election debate and I urge people, whatever your politics, to go and see it and make up your own mind. ” Hillary’s America traces the history of the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton’s current position atop it. D’Souza traces the early days of Clinton’s political career, from her meetings with radical community organizer Saul Alinsky to her early relationship with Bill Clinton and on to more recent scandals including her role in the attack on the diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, her private email server and allegations of corruption at the Clinton Foundation.  Hillary’s America was   in 400 theaters over Labor Day weekend due to popular demand from moviegoers. The film  —   already the   documentary of 2016  —   crossed the $13 million mark at the box office on Monday. The Hillary’s America DVD will include several deleted and extended scenes as well as extended interviews with some of the subjects featured in the film, including Vanderbilt University professor Carol Swain, National Review senior editor Jonah Goldberg and Clinton Cash author and Breitbart Senior    Peter Schweizer. The DVD will also include a featurette on the film’s visual effects. Regnery Publishing will team with Lionsgate to promote the DVD release by offering a rebate for the Hillary’s America book along with the film. “Truth trumps fiction,”   producer Gerald R. Molen told Breitbart News in a statement. “The DVD of Hillary’s America provides proof that fantasy can be overcome when facts are revealed. ” Breitbart attended the premiere of Hillary’s America in Los Angeles in July, where D’Souza said that if every American could see his film, it would be “impossible for Hillary Clinton to get elected. ” “At the end of the day, we want this film not only to help mobilize and rally and unify Republicans, but we also want the film to reach     guys and Independents and the kind of people who will probably decide this election,” D’Souza said at the film’s premiere.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum