WASHINGTON  —   Even on Fox News, Representative Devin Nunes, the beleaguered Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, could not escape the venom from his left. Mr. Nunes, the California lawmaker, stood inside the Capitol’s Statuary Hall on Thursday evening, assuming a familiar set of positions: in front of a camera, giving cover to President Trump and defending himself. The subject this time was his decision on Wednesday to brief Mr. Trump, whose campaign his committee is investigating, about possible “incidental” surveillance of the president or his associates. “I still think it’s the right call,” Mr. Nunes said of his decision not to tell members of his committee about his trip to the White House. But as he spoke inside the Capitol, a committee colleague, Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut, peered into a different camera, belonging to CNN, a few feet to the left. “It is almost inconceivable,” Mr. Himes said of his chairman’s behavior, more than loud enough to hear nearby. “Lo and behold, a couple of hours later, Donald Trump gets to put the barest of fig leaves on the outrageous tweet about Barack Obama wiretapping him. ” Since Mr. Trump took office, Mr. Nunes has proved an eager purveyor of executive fig leaves. As the leader of an investigation involving the campaign of a man he cheered vocally and served directly as a transition team official, the congressman has often appeared almost incurious about the chief subject of the inquiry. Of greater concern in the intelligence sphere is his recent burst of media exposure, with a public speaking style that can at times seem cavalier while discussing sensitive information. This has led to misgivings about sharing national security details with him, a senior American intelligence official said. Many lawmakers crave attention, racing to microphones and pounding lecterns in search of cable news glory. But Mr. Nunes, who can seem by turns earnest and reticent in person, is something different: After over a decade in the House, he has appeared to lurch haphazardly into the spotlight, like Kramer entering a room on “Seinfeld,” straining to keep his balance as a human shield in Washington’s daily Trump wars. Mr. Nunes said on Fox News that he felt he “had a duty and obligation” to tell Mr. Trump about the possible surveillance. “Because as you know, he’s taking a lot of heat in the news media. ” Now the president has company in that regard: Mr. Nunes, a former dairy farmer, elected to Congress in 2002 at age 29, from a   section of a   state. The Democratic National Committee has even adopted a new label for him: “White House stooge. ” It was not always thus. Mr. Nunes was 23 when he was first elected to public office, as a board member of a local community college where he had started his higher education. Eyeing his first campaign, Mr. Nunes sought advice from Representative Jim Costa, a Democrat who is also from the Central Valley in California and was serving in the State Legislature at the time. Both belonged to the area’s   Portuguese community. Mr. Costa said he recognized a familiar drive. “We all show that kind of interest when we’re in our 20s and 30s, and we want to try to get an opportunity to see if we can make a difference,” Mr. Costa said. Until recently, Mr. Nunes’s most memorable flourish in the House was his blistering assessment in 2013 of Republicans who were willing to shut down the federal government over President Obama’s health law: “lemmings with suicide vests. ” Now, he has largely retained the support of his colleagues, despite complaints from Republicans like Senator John McCain of Arizona over his committee stewardship, amplifying calls for an independent commission to investigate Mr. Trump’s connections to Russia. On Friday, Mr. Nunes summoned reporters once more to relay information that Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman with questionable ties to Russia, had volunteered to appear before the committee. Mr. Nunes also announced the cancellation of a public meeting with former intelligence and law enforcement leaders, citing a desire to bring in James B. Comey, the F. B. I. director, and Michael S. Rogers, the head of the National Security Agency, for a closed session instead. Both testified before the committee this week. Representative Adam Schiff of California, the committee’s top Democrat, suggested that once again the chairman had acted unilaterally, this time to scuttle the hearing. And in a sign of how far their relationship has fallen, Mr. Schiff  —   who for weeks stood by Mr. Nunes’s side before reporters and defended him  —   accused him of taking that action because the White House had told him to. This was the capper to an eventful few days for Mr. Nunes. Presiding over a committee hearing on Monday  —   when Mr. Comey took the extraordinary step of announcing the agency’s investigation into whether the Trump campaign had colluded with Russia to influence the 2016 election  —   Mr. Nunes mustered deeper alarm over anonymous sources revealing an inquiry’s details to journalists than over the contents of the investigation. On Wednesday, he told reporters he had received information that Mr. Trump or members of his team may have been “incidentally” swept up in foreign surveillance by American spy agencies. Pressed on whether the White House had provided him the information to produce a “feedback loop” that might aid the president, Mr. Nunes has declined to reveal his sources, saying he does not want to discourage others from coming forward  —   a rationale analogous to reporters’ arguments for protecting anonymous sources. It has also not always been entirely clear what Mr. Nunes is talking about. “Was the president also part of that incidental collection, his communications?” one reporter asked on Wednesday. “Yes,” Mr. Nunes said, after glancing at the floor for a moment. Heads snapped up from their phones and notepads. “Excuse me, let me just clarify,” another reporter began. “The president of the United States’ personal communications were intercepted as an incidental part of intelligence gathering  —  ” Mr. Nunes appeared to reconsider. “When we talk about intelligence products here, we’ve got to be very careful,” he said. By Thursday evening, he still did not seem certain about the contents of what he had divulged. He has said he could decipher the identities of Trump associates from reading reports about intercepted communications that were shared among Obama administration officials with top security clearances. But he has stressed that he did not have evidence to support Mr. Trump’s claim of being personally wiretapped. Regardless, the president and some allies have seized on the comments as validation. “I mean, look, my guess is there’s probably a lot more than what I was able to see,” Mr. Nunes said, when asked if Mr. Trump was indeed vindicated. “And then he’ll have to make up his own mind. ” Democrats have said that Mr. Nunes apologized for leaving them out of the loop. Mr. Nunes, who said he would not do anything differently if given the chance, said he understood why some were upset. But he chafed at discussions of his private conversations. “That stuff,” he said, “is not supposed to leak out. ”