TEL AVIV  —   The New York Times reports Democratic groups supporting Hillary Clinton are preparing a   plan to defeat Donald Trump’s presidential ambitions. [The Daily Mail adds detail, citing a “  plan” that reportedly includes portraying Trump “as a loose cannon who could not lead the country. ”  The Times reports the plan “has three major thrusts: Portray Mr. Trump as a heartless businessman  …    broadcast the degrading comments he has made against women . .and highlight his brash, explosive temper to show he is unsuited to be commander in chief. ” The concept of Clinton utilizing   plans may have been laid out in a September 14, 2009 email sent to Clinton by Neera Tanden, president of the highly influential Center for American Progress, or CAP. The correspondence was contained in Monday’s batch of roughly 3, 900 pages said to be the last of Clinton’s   emails. The emails are being reviewed in full by this reporter. The dispatch, titled “Media Attention,” was sent directly by Tanden to Clinton’s private email address, evidencing the close relationship between Clinton and the CAP. Tanden complains that many political reporters “have very little understanding of international relations and foreign policy. ”  To rectify the supposed problem and ensure positive coverage, Tanden recommends that Clinton “overwhelm people with solutions: 5 point plans 10 point plans. ” Tanden writes: You are the object of continuing media interest  —   not just by reporters who have an expertise in foreign affairs, but also general political reporters who, unfortunately, have very little understanding of international relations and foreign policy. At the same time, it strikes me that foreign policy is a particularly difficult area to generate substantive news. So much of foreign policy comes across as positioning rather than concrete proposals  …    .   …    While foreign policy reporters may understand the nuances of positioning (e. g, our position on talks with Iran, our position on   talks, etc) such nuances are probably lost on most political reporters who are not paying close, daily attention to these matters, Another problem is that while foreign policy reporters may grasp the true meaning of thematic speeches, political reporters may often miss their import and meaning. Tanden recommends “solutions communicated in a way so that all reporters, even the laziest, would understand them. ” She continues: Therefore, in order to reach those political reporters and others, an approach to this problem could be to overwhelm people with solutions: 5 point plans 10 point plans (You came up with “point plan” approach on our campaign, and I didn’t at first understand its merit, but soon saw it  —   it shorthanded the solutions so that even when reporters couldn’t go through all the details, they would at least write that you had a 5 point plan to solve the problem.) Tanden helpfully provided a list of numerous   plans in “areas in which there could be domestic interest in your ideas:”   point plan to combat international pandemics,   point plan to combat sex trafficking,   point plan to stop the spread of terrorism to newer locations like Africa and Asia through the work of smart power (this may be repackaging a series of ideas you have already discussed)   point plan to improve girls’ education as a way to defeat terrorism,   point plan to strengthen   efforts to combat global warming (there was a great story on NPR about   batteries to run cell phones and lights in the developing world) During her tenure as secretary of state and beyond, Clinton would go on to enumerate numerous   plans. Just last month, Clinton outlined a   plan to combat the Islamic State. Speaking at the Brookings Institute last September, Clinton presented a   plan regarding U. S. strategy toward Iran. The plan maintains the current nuclear deal while increasing sanctions targeting the Tehran regime. The CAP, meanwhile, is financed in part by billionaire George Soros.  It was founded by John Podesta, who served as Bill Clinton’s chief of staff and was   of Obama’s White House transition team in 2009. Podesta is currently chairman of Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.