NEW YORK CITY, New York  —   The revolution continues, even though its original leader may have sold out. [Just a few days before the general election, Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Rodham Clinton and her running mate Sen. Tim Kaine ( ) still can’t unite her party. Supporters of Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, her Democratic primary rival, are disrupting her campaign’s efforts to take on GOP nominee Donald J. Trump, and in Iowa on Saturday one prominent Sanders backer was actually escorted out of a Clinton campaign event for urging those present not to vote for Clinton —  for which he was cheered by the crowd.  Kaleb Vanfosson, the president of Iowa State University’s Students for Bernie chapter, bashed Hillary Clinton and told   at her own campaign event not to vote for her. He was cheered. He opened his remarks by bashing Donald Trump on student loan debt, but then surprisingly turned to bashing Hillary Clinton from her own stage. “Unfortunately, Hillary doesn’t really care about this issue either,” Vanfosson said. “The only thing she cares about is pleasing her donors, the billionaires who fund her campaign. The only people that really trust Hillary are Goldman Sachs, CitiGroup can trust Hillary, the military industrial complex can trust Hillary. Her good friend Henry Kissinger can trust Hillary. ” The crowd at the   event erupted in applause. “She is so trapped in the world of the elite that she has completely lost grip on what it’s like to be an average person,” Vanfosson continued. “She doesn’t care. Voting for another lesser of two evils, there’s no point. ” At that point, a Clinton staffer rushed on stage and grabbed the young man by the arm to escort him off the stage and out of the event. WATCH BERNIE SANDERS SUPPORTER BASHING HILLARY CLINTON AT HER OWN RALLY,  According to a student newspaper account, Vanfosson claims he was “basically assaulted” by the Clinton staffer on the way out. “Vanfosson told the Iowa State Daily that while being escorted out he was ‘basically assaulted,’” Iowa State Daily’s Shannon McCarty wrote. “Vanfosson said he does have footage of the incident. ” After this whole incident, Sanders himself came out to give his own speech in support of Clinton. But that came as, via Twitter, Sanders defended the majority of Trump supporters. I do not believe that most of the people who are thinking about voting for Mr. Trump are racist or sexist.  —   Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) November 5, 2016,  Some are, but I think most are people who are hurting, they’re worried about their kids, they’re working longer hours for lower wages.  —   Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) November 5, 2016,  Our job is to reach out to Trump voters to tell them that we’re going to create an economy that works for all of us, not just a few.  —   Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) November 5, 2016,  WikiLeaks has published internal emails from the account of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta showing that not only did the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and the Clinton campaign collude to crush the Sanders campaign, but that Sanders and Clinton seemed to have some kind of pact by which they would not criticize each other too much. Sanders had   pact with Clinton who had ”leverage” to enforce it Robby Mook (”re47”) email reveals https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) November 5, 2016,  Podesta on Bernie Sanders: ”I agree.. Where should we stick the knife in?” https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) November 3, 2016,  ”Bernie needs to be ground to a pulp  …     Crush him as hard as you can.” Joel Johnson, Clinton insider, DC lobbyist https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) November 1, 2016,  Trump has repeatedly offered the Bernie Sanders supporters who were left behind as Sanders sold out to endorse Hillary Clinton a seat at the table on his team. “To all of those Bernie Sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a rigged system of super delegates, we welcome you with open arms,” Trump said over the summer, for instance. In fact, many Sanders supporters have made their way to backing Trump. Trumpocrats PAC executive director Christian Rickers, who was previously a Sanders supporter and a 2012 delegate for Barack Obama to the Democratic National Convention, has called on Sanders to rescind his Clinton endorsement in response to the open borders revelations about Clinton in the WikiLeaks dumps. Rickers is now an ardent Trump supporter. “We now know that she’s been hiding her advocacy for open borders and open trade  …     positions that would put an end to our Republic,” Rickers previously told Breitbart News. “We call on Bernie Sanders to immediately retract his endorsement of Lying Globalist Hillary Clinton. ”