Although the classified information scandal surrounding Hillary Clinton’s   email server blew   Friday afternoon, NBC News, the   outlet that attempted to rescue Clinton from this inexcusable behavior last year, jumped back into the tank Monday morning. During a   appearance on “The Today Show,” the former Secretary of State was not asked a single question about the disturbing new revelations.  Naturally, although she is running for nothing, this very same “Today Show” sandbagged Sarah Palin with a personal question about her children. Here are the questions Matt Lauer and Savannah Guthrie believed were the most important on the morning of the Iowa Caucuses: Did you wake up this morning excited? Why won’t you come out and say that Bernie Sanders cannot win a general election? Why is Bernie Sanders wrong that President Obama’s 8 years are “disappointing?” Meanwhile, on “Morning Joe,” longtime Hillary supporter Andrea Mitchell was caught spinning like a top for Clinton. On the day of the Iowa Caucus, Mitchell seemed desperate to reassure   that Clinton was in no legal jeopardy. Mitchell, who has never been above embarrassing herself for Hillary, said, “Honestly, from my sources, and they go pretty high up including  —   including some of the people who are doing the review for the  —   inside the intelligence community, I don’t think there is the legal culpability here. ” Throughout much of last year, NBC News geared up to ensure Hillary Clinton’s White House victory. In the   to the 2016 election, the Peacock Network has poured more than a   dollars into   sites Vox and Buzzfeed. The year prior, NBC News paid Hillary’s daughter Chelsea a whopping $600, 000 to pretty much do nothing. Morever, after Hillary’s testimony before the House Select Committee on Benghazi late last year, NBC News ran to the  ’s rescue with a series of   public relations appearances. Clinton flipped pancakes on the “Today Show,” enjoyed a softball townhall appearance on the “Today Show,” was treated to a humanizing appearance on “Saturday Night Live,” and numerous appearances on MSNBC where her Benghazi testimony was hailed as a triumph. According to CNN, there was a    arrangement between NBC News and Clinton.  OO. ready( function()  ) })