As the judicial secretary in a court devoted to   cases in Nicaragua, I transcribe everything said in our hearings. So I remember the day this one couple came in. They arrived at the courthouse well dressed. The husband was large and stocky, and the wife was in slacks and a blouse, thin and   with curly hair and a delicate face. She looked frightened. I typed as the prosecutor laid out the details of the case. They were each  . They owned a farm outside town. The wife had gone to church without her husband’s permission. When the husband found out, he went to the church and dragged her out by the hair. He took her home, forced her onto their bed, hit her and began to squeeze her neck. Luckily one of their children showed up at the house just then and interrupted him. He might have choked her to death. Then it was time for the wife to speak. “It was my fault, your honor,” she said. “I didn’t ask his permission to go to church. ” That’s when I said to myself: This poor woman is exactly how I used to be. When I was in high school, I met and fell in love with a schoolmate. He was religious and hardworking. He didn’t drink, and he belonged to a good family. Even though my mother didn’t approve  —   she scolded me for going out to see him  —   I left school and moved in with him. We married and had three children very quickly. Then, when I was 21, after my youngest was born, I wanted to go back to high school. I didn’t want to keep washing dishes and doing housework forever. Married women were allowed to go only to night classes, but I wanted to study during the day with the regular students. O. K. the teacher said, but you have to wear the uniform. It’s a pleated blue skirt with a white shirt tucked in, the blue and white for the flag of Nicaragua, with these long white socks up to the knee. My youngest was only 3 months old, and I was still nursing. Sometimes my breasts filled up and leaked through my uniform. I didn’t care. But my husband did. He didn’t want me to go back to school. He said that married women were supposed to stay home, taking care of the children and doing house chores, and that the ones who wanted to study were sluts  —   what they do is look for men. He was no longer the person I met now he cursed and went out drinking. He began to treat me badly. But I couldn’t leave. By then my mother was barely getting by, and there was no one else  —   no friends or family members  —   to help support me or my kids. Too bad, I told myself. I’ll just have to endure it. My husband tried to stop me from studying any way he could. One day he showed up at school to spy on me. Other times he got my uniform dirty or tore up my notebooks. I would buy new ones and copy my assignments all over again. He would tear them up again, and I’d copy them again. He got bored of it before I did. Finally I finished high school, and I wanted to go to university. My husband refused to give me the money, even for a notebook. I heard that the courthouse was looking for someone to mop the floors and clean the shutters. I wasn’t even an official employee. The judges paid me 300 córdobas a month (about $20 at the time) out of their own salaries. My husband was furious about it. In calmer moments, he would try to reason with me: “Why do you need to work when I provide everything you need? The rice, the beans, everything?” “But I don’t want to be a housewife,” I told him. “I want to be something. ” With the money I earned cleaning, I got my bachelor’s degree in social studies. Then I began to clean a second courthouse, so that was 600 córdobas a month. When the two courts eventually merged, they hired me as the custodian officially. Some time later, my boss, a woman, encouraged me to study law. It was only after I became a lawyer several years ago that I started earning enough money to support myself and my kids on my own. Finally I didn’t have to put up with this man anymore. So I divorced him. Now, in the hearing, I looked at this wife. The judge, who was a woman, said to her: “You have to ask permission to go to church?” “Yes,” the wife said. “No, ma’am,” the judge said. “We don’t have to ask for permission. We’re not the property of anybody. ” But I knew how hard it would be for the woman to learn what, after so long, I finally understood.