The search by police in Houston, Texas, for a    middle school English teacher who became impregnated by a    student has ended, as the woman  turned herself in Wednesday. [Alexandria Vera, 24, a teacher at Thomas J. Stovall Middle School of the Aldine School District in Houston, told authorities she met the    boy last summer during a summer school session and struck up a relationship with him in the ensuing months.  The suspect said she even became friendly with the boy’s parents and was thought of as the boy’s girlfriend. Vera also told authorities that when she became pregnant, the child’s family expressed joy at the impending birth. Vera, however, told police she got an abortion and terminated the pregnancy once Child Protective Services (CPS) caught wind of the relationship and began to ask questions. During questioning in February, Vera told CPS officials there was no relationship between the two. But school officials had other ideas. After an internal investigation into the relationship, the school placed the teacher on leave last April and has already begun the process to fire her. During its most recent investigation, police discovered a wealth of evidence on the suspect’s phone concerning the relationship. Students told several media outlets that Vera was a “cool teacher” because she let them use cell phones in her classroom, but many were under the impression she was having a sexual relationship with the boy. KHOU TV reports that court documents allege the teacher had sex with the boy “almost daily for months. ” Vera’s neighbors also report that the woman allowed kids to drink alcohol at her home. “She was having a lot of kids in her home,” a neighbor reported. “There was drinking in the front. We always found beer bottles and beer cans on her side of the lawn and half of the (teens) did not look older than high school, maybe. ” So far, police are ready to charge Vera with at least one count of continuous sexual abuse of a child. Meet Alexandria Vera, the Astros   who was impregnated by 8th grade student https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Busted Coverage (@bustedcoverage) June 1, 2016, Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.