WASHINGTON  —   President Trump’s Saturday started with a trip to the Trump National Golf Club in Sterling, Va. By Saturday night, on one of the few weekends since the inauguration that Mr. Trump remained in Washington, the president was dining at the Trump International Hotel a few blocks from the White House. He was greeted by   as he entered and exited the hotel’s steakhouse restaurant, BLT Prime by David Burke, with his daughter and   . On Sunday morning, Mr. Trump was once again at the family’s Virginia golf course. For Mr. Trump, it was just another weekend with a   spotlight on his family’s business outlets, a pattern that started during his transition when he drew international attention to the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N. J. by interviewing potential cabinet picks there. Saturday’s stops marked the eighth weekend in a row  —   out of the 10 weekends he has been in office  —   that Mr. Trump has visited a   property, including his    resort in Palm Beach. White House officials have said Mr. Trump goes to his clubs and restaurants because he is comfortable there, but critics increasingly argue that the visits are priceless advertising and that Mr. Trump and his family are using the presidency as a way to enrich themselves. “It is normal for presidents to get out  —   and it can be a boost for small businesses across the city and the country,” said Robert Weissman, the president of Public Citizen, a liberal nonprofit group. “But with President Trump, he spends his down time as a walking advertisement for his businesses. It is a major departure from historic norm and degradation of the office. ” Eric Trump, in an interview this month, disputed any suggestion that his father’s visits to family properties represented a conflict of interest. But he agreed that the Trump Organization’s assets  —   from    where interest in memberships has surged, to its golf courses  —   were doing well. “The stars have all aligned,” said Eric Trump, during a recent news conference in Washington to promote the upcoming Senior PGA Championship tournament at the Trump National Golf Course in Sterling, Va. Memorial Day weekend. (He did not mention his father by name.) As executive vice president of the Trump Organization, he oversees its 16 owned or operated golf courses around the world. “I think our brand is the hottest it has ever been. ” The president has now made three visits to the Trump National Golf Club. . Tickets to the event are being sold as Mr. Trump is pushing the golf course into the spotlight, with reporters and photographers in tow on Saturday for a daylong visit. On Sunday shortly after 11 a. m. with reporters placed at the complex’s indoor tennis center, Mr. Trump made a quick visit to the club for what White House officials said were three meetings. By noon Mr. Trump was headed back to Washington. Photos of Mr. Trump surfaced on social media on Saturday and Sunday that appeared to show him in golf shoes and out on the golf course on Saturday, and then sitting at the golf club, during his short visit Sunday, watching a game of golf on television. The New York Times confirmed, via   tools, that the items were posted Sunday from the Trump National Golf Club. But the White House officials did not respond when asked about the photographs, and would not confirm whether Mr. Trump played golf. The warm welcome Mr. Trump received Saturday night at the Trump hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue offered a hint of why Mr. Trump may visit his family’s establishments so often: He is almost guaranteed the kind of enthusiastic crowd he would never find at Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland’s Catoctin Mountains. “Keep up the good work!” one man shouted after Mr. Trump wrapped up his dinner at the hotel on Saturday. “Thank you, Donald! Thank you, Trump!” another man yelled. Mr. Trump arrived shortly after 9 p. m.  —   a reporter from The Times was already having dinner at the hotel’s only restaurant  —   and walked through the lobby’s expansive atrium and into the restaurant, BLT Prime.   guests turned to one another in disbelief. A man shouting Mr. Trump’s name had to be quieted by hotel security. Mr. Trump, his daughter Ivanka Trump and his    Jared Kushner, were led to the   mezzanine, which looks out onto the vast lobby. Hotel guests leaned over the railings of the upper floors to gawk at the president sitting down for a family dinner. Mr. Trump has a particular preference for steaks, well done and with ketchup, although the restaurant would not confirm what he dined on Saturday night. The meal went on for more than two hours, even as guests had stopped eating and had turned around simply to watch Mr. Trump. One diner sitting a few feet from the Trump party said the president had interrupted his meal several times to allow   to greet him. Members of the Secret Service took over a table on the first floor and ordered drinks while waiting for the president to conclude his meal. Right above them, Mr. Trump’s personal security guard, Keith Schiller, patrolled the mezzanine level while chatting and joking with guests. “We ate slowly,” said John Nix, who was having dinner at BLT Prime with his wife and three children on their final night at the hotel, which he said they had found on TripAdvisor. The family was visiting Washington from Columbus, Ga. to see sights and visit colleges, and had made a reservation for the restaurant a month before. As the two hours passed, hotel guests who had been at the bar and waiting in the lobby formed a long line, hoping to meet the president as he left. Mr. Trump happily obliged. Around 11:30 p. m. he and Ms. Trump worked the crowd, which included a teenager in a red “Make America Great Again” hat and a young girl asleep on the shoulders of her parents. Screams then gave way to dozens of people chanting “U. S. A.! U. S. A. !” A few minutes later, Mr. Trump disappeared into his motorcade for the short ride home.