Comedian and former presidential candidate Roseanne Barr blasted “Jew hater” Hillary Clinton and her “filthy Nazi” advisors on social media this week, arguing that if Clinton were to win the presidency in November, it would mean the “death of Israel. ”[In a series of Twitter posts, the    Roseanne star blasted Clinton for surrounding herself with “ ” advisers including Huma Abedin and Sidney Blumenthal.  “[H]illary Clinton is surrounded by jew haters who make fun of the holocaust  jewish suffering yet her mkultra supporters call Trump a bigot!” Barr tweeted. hillary clinton is surrounded by jew haters who make fun of the holocaust  jewish suffering yet her mkultra supporters call Trump a bigot!  —   Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) August 26, 2016,  The comedian also suggested that a Clinton presidency would mean “the death of Israel” and said the Democratic candidate would sell nuclear weapons to Hamas if the “price is right. ” Hillary will be the absolute death of   will sell #nukes2 Hamas next if price is right.  She listens 2 SID PAUL AND MAX BLUMENTHAL!  —   Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) August 24, 2016,  Barr also went after top Clinton aide Huma Abedin over her apparent connection to the   Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs, for which she served as an assistant editor for more than a decade. “Huma is a Nazi  Hillary loves Nazis,” she tweeted in a post that appears to have since been deleted but was captured by the Jerusalem Post. The comedian later sarcastically apologized for calling Abedin a “filthy whore,” saying it was “politically incorrect” to do so. I should not have called Hillary’s aide Huma Weiner a filthy whore. I apologize for that.  —   Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) August 27, 2016,  I should not call any woman a ’filthy whore’ even if she parrots jew hating fascist lies. It’s politically incorrect, and I do apologize4 it,  —   Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) August 27, 2016,  It was wrong of me2 call #HumaWeiner a ’filthy whore.’ It’s politically incorrect  I no longer dare 2 exercise freedom of speech. #Democrat,  —   Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) August 27, 2016,  Barr has been an outspoken supporter of Israel and a fierce critic of Hillary Clinton. The sitcom star has previously referred to Clinton as the “same old sh*t,” and blasted supporters of the   Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement as “naked bigots. ” Barr has also defended Republican candidate Donald Trump, including in a pair of tweets on Saturday. Hillary’s commercials offer 0 ideas, just attacks on the intelligence of half th US population backing Trump. She thinks we r all #AlexJones,  —   Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) August 27, 2016,  ppl think Trump saying ’vet’ immigrants from   anti semitic patriarchal rape cultures is worse than sending our troops in2 harms way.  —   Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) August 27, 2016,  The comedian has previously said that America would be “so lucky” if Trump were elected president, because “then it wouldn’t be Hillary. ” Still, Barr later said that she had not endorsed Trump and would be writing in her own name on ballots every year until she wins.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum