During an interview today, Bill Clinton’s rape accuser Juanita Broaddrick suggested the New York Times spend the same amount of energy investigating claims of sexual assault against Bill Clinton that the newspaper put into probing Donald Trump’s alleged past treatment of women. [Broaddrick said she believes there is a whole generation of Millennials who are unfamiliar with Clinton’s history with women. She further slammed Hillary Clinton as an “enabler” who has allowed her husband to “continue on the same path that he did back in the 70’s and 80’s and 90’s. ”  Click below to listen to the audio of the interview.  Asked if the Times contacted her for an interview about her past with Clinton, Broaddrick replied, “No they haven’t, Aaron. ” Broaddrick continued: I wish that they would use the same amount of energy to interview the hundreds of women that Bill Clinton has probably spoken bad words about and the many women that he has assaulted. I think a person’s own actions and what they do to women speaks much louder than a person’s hearsay and words. She said there is a whole generation of Americans who “haven’t heard about what Bill Clinton did to the women back in that time that they need to know. ” “Just like on Twitter I had these young Millennials coming on, saying, ‘Is this is true? Did it really happen?’ Well, yes. It did happen to me,” she added. Broaddrick was asked to comment on the statements made by Trump at a campaign stop earlier this month, where the presidential candidate slammed Hillary Clinton as “unbelievably nasty, mean enabler” who “destroyed” the lives of her husband’s mistresses and alleged victims. Broaddrick replied: “I feel like she has been the enabler behind him in allowing him to continue on the same path that he did back in the ’70s and ’80s and ’90s. He has absolutely no morals when it comes to women. ” Broaddrick was speaking in a joint interview with Breitbart News and a special podcast edition of this reporter’s weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” On Saturday, the Times published an extensive piece titled “Crossing the Line: How Donald Trump Behaved With Women in Private. ” The article reported that the newspaper’s journalists interviewed “dozens of women who had worked with or for Mr. Trump over the past four decades, in the worlds of real estate, modeling, and pageants women who had dated him or interacted with him socially and women and men who had closely observed his conduct since his adolescence. ” “In all, more than 50 interviews were conducted over the course of six weeks,” continued the Times. The interviews, the newspaper reports, revealed “unwelcome romantic advances, unending commentary on the female form, a shrewd reliance on ambitious women, and unsettling workplace conduct. ” Rowanne Brewer Lane, a model who was one of several women cited in the Times article, stated on Monday morning that her quotes alleging Trump disrespected her were taken out of context and she found it “very upsetting” that the newspaper took her statements and “put a negative connotation on it. ” Broaddrick says Clinton raped her at a hotel when she was a nursing home administrator volunteering for   Attorney General Bill Clinton’s 1978 gubernatorial bid. In January, Broaddrick dropped new details in an interview on this reporter’s weekend talk radio show. Broaddrick said that within a few weeks after Clinton allegedly raped her, he started to call her repeatedly with the aim of meeting again. The phone calls went on for about six months, she stated. “I was shocked to say the least that he would have the audacity to call me after what he did to me,” Broaddrick said. Speaking publicly for the first time in nearly a decade, Broaddrick in November told this reporter that Hillary approached her at a fundraising event three weeks after the alleged rape, and Broaddrick says Hillary implied that Broaddrick should stay quiet about the incident. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.