NBC News has its own interview with Marcel Lehel Lazar, aka “Guccifer”  —   the hacker who raided Hillary Clinton’s henchman Sidney Blumenthal, and who now claims he penetrated her illicit email server stuffed with classified documents. [It appears NBC’s interview is older than the one Fox News broke yesterday, because it was conducted in a prison in Bucharest, while Fox spoke with Lazar after he was extradited to Virginia. NBC sat on their interview until after Fox News dropped its bombshell, ostensibly because they wanted it to be part of the debut of reporter Cynthia McFadden’s new series “On Assignment. ”  That was a risky move, because NBC had no way of ensuring that Guccifer wouldn’t give other interviews, allowing rival networks to scoop them. He was extradited from Romania at the end of March, making his first appearance in a Virginia courtroom on April 1, so NBC has been sitting on this interview for over a month, knowing full well that it could have a significant impact on the Democratic primary race. Strange things happen when a media establishment largely composed of her friends, donors, and former employees says it is reporting on Hillary. NBC’s interview might be even more quotable than the Fox News interview. Perhaps Lazar was a little more guarded with Fox, because he’d already spoken to NBC and was worried he said too much. For example, Lazar colorfully says Clinton’s homebrew email server was “like an open orchid on the Internet. ” “There were hundreds of folders,” he recalled, describing Clinton’s machine as “completely unsecured. ” That’s all you get from NBC for now, until the rest of the interview is aired on the new “On Assignment” show Sunday night. However, the Peacock Network gives copious space to the rebuttal Team Clinton hastily drafted, after the Fox News story detonated on Wednesday: When pressed by NBC News, Lazar, 44, could provide no documentation to back up his claims, nor did he ever release anything online supporting his allegations, as he had frequently done with past hacks. The FBI’s review of the Clinton server logs showed no sign of hacking, according to a source familiar with the case. Brian Fallon, national press secretary for Clinton’s presidential campaign, said Guccifer’s claims were baseless. “There is absolutely no basis to believe the claims made by this criminal from his prison cell,” said Fallon. “In addition to the fact that he offers no proof to support his claims, his descriptions of Secretary Clinton’s server are inaccurate. It is unfathomable that he would have gained access to her emails and not leaked them the way he did to his other victims. “We have received no indication from any government agency to support these claims, nor are they reflected in the range of charges that Guccifer already faces and that prompted his extradition in the first place,” Fallon added. “And it has been reported that security logs from Secretary Clinton’s email server do not show any evidence of foreign hacking. ” There’s absolutely no reason to believe anything Hillary Clinton says about her mail server, either, since she’s been caught lying so many times since the absurd press conference she gave at the beginning of the scandal. (Remember when she supposedly launched this gigantic    scheme, which required several aides to manually copy classified documents from secure servers, because it was easier for her than carrying two smartphones?) We won’t have to rely on anyone’s word for very long, because the FBI wouldn’t have hundreds of agents working the Clinton case if they were inclined to accept the boasts of either hackers or politicians at face value. Whether any of it matters will ultimately be up to the Obama Justice Department, the Clinton media  —   and American voters.