NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.  —   A bitter legal war between the bond investor William H. Gross and Pimco, the company he built into one of the biggest asset managers in the world, is over. A lawyer representing Mr. Gross filed a request in California state court on Monday to dismiss the investor’s lawsuit over his 2014 ouster. The terms of the settlement were not disclosed, although both sides noted in a joint statement that “any proceeds from the suit will be donated to charity. ” People briefed on the matter said that Pimco would pay more than $80 million to the William and Sue Gross Family Foundation. Mr. Gross, who helped found the firm in 1971, will add from his own fortunes to make the contribution total more than $100 million, some of these people said. Pimco did say that it would dedicate a room in his headquarters here to its founders and that Mr. Gross would be named a “director emeritus. ” “Bill Gross has always been larger than life,” Dan Ivascyn, Pimco’s chief investment officer, said in the statement. “Bill has had an enormous influence on Pimco and the careers of many who have passed through its halls,” he added. In the joint statement, Mr. Gross said: “Pimco has always been family to me, and, like any family, sometimes there are disagreements. I’m glad that we have had the opportunity to work through those. ” Those cordial words stand in stark contrast to the invectives that were lobbed at each after Mr. Gross sued the firm in October 2015, accusing it of breach of contract and breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Yet the litigation had been a frustrating distraction for Pimco as it sought to recover from the damage done by Mr. Gross’s departure. Since his exit in September 2014, Pimco’s assets have slid to $1. 47 trillion, from more than $2 trillion at the peak. For Mr. Gross, the settlement comes as he seeks to refurbish his image and start again at a competitor, Janus Capital Group. Details that emerged on his split with Pimco portrayed him as erratic and authoritarian before and after he was forced out. The settlement may also provide some sort of resolution psychologically for the investor, who has said he closely monitors his performance against Pimco and is “fixated” on proving it was wrong to force him out. In his lawsuit, Mr. Gross had claimed that he was wrongfully pushed out as the chief investment officer by a “cabal” of greedy partners among the company’s top executives. The colorfully worded lawsuit took particular aim at Mohamed   the firm’s former chief executive, and Mr. Ivascyn. “Driven by a lust for power, greed, and a desire to improve their own financial position and reputation at the expense of investors and decency, a cabal of Pimco managing directors plotted to drive founder Bill Gross out of Pimco in order to take, without compensation, Gross’s percentage ownership in the profitability of Pimco,” the complaint said. Pimco executives’ “improper, dishonest, and unethical behavior must now be exposed. ” Pimco had called the suit “legally groundless” and asked for its dismissal. “Pimco has moved forward since Mr. Gross’s resignation,” the firm said in 2015. “It is time for him to do the same. ” Pacific Investment Management Company, or Pimco, has also been working to distance itself from the events of 2014. With diminished money under management generating fees, the asset manager, based in Newport Beach, Calif. has trimmed its work force to 2, 200 from about 2, 400 in 2014. It has also closed some funds to decrease costs. Emmanuel Roman, the former chief of the British hedge fund manager Man Group, started as chief executive in November. He took over for Douglas Hodge, the former chief operating officer who was tapped to lead the company after Mr.  ’s departure. In the three years that Mr. Roman led Man Group, he helped stabilize its business and made multiple acquisitions as it aimed to push into the United States markets and expand its global reach to institutional clients. He joined Pimco at a critical time for the money manager, as it tried to assure investors that a   manager could weather a downturn in   markets, as interest rates rose. Clients began to pull money from the Pimco Total Return fund in 2013, while Mr. Gross was still at the helm, as the Federal Reserve signaled it would end its stimulus programs, roiling bond markets. The firm’s flagship total return fund underperformed most peers that year and the next, data from Morningstar show. The departures of Mr.   and Mr. Gross within the span of seven months accelerated client withdrawals. That year, investors pulled more than $100 billion from Total Return, once the world’s biggest mutual fund. Withdrawals have since slowed as performance steadied, and assets now stand at $74. 2 billion. In its first full year without Mr. Gross, returns surged to rank 15th among comparable funds, according to Morningstar, but fell below the middle of the pack last year. This year it has ranked in the top decile of comparable funds, Morningstar data show. The Pimco Income Fund, managed by Mr. Ivascyn, tells a different story. For the past five years, its performance has beaten benchmarks and most comparable funds, and as a result, clients have poured money into it. This year, it surpassed Pimco Total Return as the company’s biggest fund. At Janus, Mr. Gross started an “unconstrained” fund, which has attracted just under $2 billion. Performance in the new fund fared better than most of its peers in 2015 and 2016, including the similar fund at Pimco,   by Mr. Ivascyn. This year it has trailed competitors. Mr. Gross’s complaint took aim at those in line to succeed him, including Mr. Ivascyn, who the suit claimed threatened to resign if Mr. Gross was not forced out, and Mr.  . Mr.   has served as chief economic adviser to Pimco’s parent company, the German insurer Allianz, since he left in March 2014. The complaint portrays Mr. Gross as a defender of   investment products, Pimco’s traditional focus, while Mr.   and Mr. Ivascyn pushed to take on more risk in   products in the interest of bigger bonuses. The suit also said that top Pimco executives were motivated to unseat Mr. Gross for his 20 percent cut of the bonus pool, which in 2013 alone was $300 million. Pimco recently resolved other outstanding litigation from the same time period, paying $20 million to settle with the Securities and Exchange Commission over claims it did not properly value securities in its   fund version of Total Return. The company did not admit any wrongdoing, and it will retain an independent compliance consultant as part of the agreement.