New Age guru and alternative medicine activist Dr. Deepak Chopra attacked Donald Trump Tuesday in an interview on Fox News’ The Alan Colmes Show, during which he called the presumptive GOP presidential nominee both “emotionally” and “mentally retarded. ”[Chopra, 68, said that Trump epitomizes, among other things, the “darkest demons” of America’s “collective psyche. ”  “I would never say this unless I believed it was 100% true, but he represents the racist, the bigot, the one who’s prejudiced, the one who is full of fear and hatred, the one who represents emotional retardation of a   old,” Chopra said of Trump. “And yet he’s so popular because he’s given permission to our collective psyche to express their darkest demons. ” Radio host Colmes asked Chopra if Trump is himself a racist and bigot, or whether he just represents those ideologies to his supporters. “I think he is,” Chopra said, adding: “I think he’s racist, he’s bigoted, he’s prejudiced. He’s full of fear. He is angry. He has a lot of hatred. He pouts, he’s belligerent, he’s emotionally retarded. ” WATCH:  Later in the interview, Chopra doubled down on the notion that Trump suffers from retardation. “Maybe I was too kind when I said he was emotionally retarded, maybe he’s mentally retarded too,” he said. This is hardly the first time that Chopra has harshly criticized the GOP presidential nominee. In March, Chopra told Fox Business that Trump resonates with the “dark side” of America: “He represents a state of collective consciousness of fear that has dormant prejudice and hatred,” he said. On Monday, the Super Genes author penned a blog post for the Huffington Post entitled, “America’s Shadow: The Real Secret of Donald J. Trump. ” In his essay, Chopra writes that Trump “stands for” the “secret side of human nature   …     the shadow   …    ” which “compounds all the dark impulses —  hatred, aggression, sadism, selfishness, jealousy, resentment, sexual transgression —  that are hidden out of sight. ” In his radio interview on Tuesday, the alternative medicine pioneer repeated his written claims from the day before, saying Trump is taking America to “the abyss. ” “This is taking us to the valley of death. This is taking us to the darkest place that humanity can go,” he said.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson