Within one hour of news breaking that Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia died in his sleep, progressives on Twitter put politics before basic human decency —  both celebrating and mocking his death.  All tweets here come from users deemed consequential enough for a “Verified” account: Scalia was a monster and no one’s job entitles them to respect. https:  .   —   Tomás Ríos (@TheTomasRios) February 13, 2016,  Don’t even try to enforce the inapplicable don’      ”rule” for the highly polarizing, deeply consequential Antonin Scalia,  —   Glenn Greenwald (@ggreenwald) February 13, 2016,  Charles Manning is “Senior Style Editor for Cosmopolitan. com. ” The devil is back in Hell! Yay! https:  .   —   Charles Manning (@CharlesEManning) February 13, 2016,  Hope Scalia is in a place as fucked up as he tried to make our country.  —   2HAYNEZ (@imandyhaynes) February 13, 2016,  Adam Mansbach is author of the bestselling children’s book Go the F*** to Sleep. I’m glad Scalia lived long enough to see gay marriage become the law of the land.  —   Adam Mansbach (@adammansbach) February 13, 2016,    …     and I hope that in his death throes, Scalia was cognizant enough to realize that Obama was going to be the one to replace him.  —   Adam Mansbach (@adammansbach) February 13, 2016,  Funny. I actually support Scalia on this one.  —   Anthony Jeselnik (@anthonyjeselnik) February 13, 2016,  I hope Scalia died from gay sex,  —   Jensen Karp (@JensenClan88) February 13, 2016,  Jarry Lee is Deputy Books Editor at BuzzFeed: saying that a racist bigot is a racist bigot isn’t ”speaking ill” just facts tbh,  —   Jarry (@jarry) February 13, 2016,  Lee’s sentiment (now deleted) echoes the site’s    Ben Smith, who told employees that it is all right to call Donald Trump a “mendacious racist” as it is considered a factual statement within the company. One of Lee’s colleagues, Rachel Zarrell —  who earlier got into hot water over a Twitter outburst on gun control —  seemingly celebrated the news of Scalia’s death with a partying emoji. Here’s the   tweet where a @BuzzFeedNews employee seemingly celebrates Scalia’s death pic. twitter.   —   Oliver Darcy (@oliverdarcy) February 13, 2016,  Jess Dweck is a writer for the Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon: Now Scalia will know what it’s like to have the government own his body.  —   Jess Dweck (@TheDweck) February 13, 2016,  Many others in the comedy world had hot takes: If Anton Scalia had been merely an entertainer I wouldn’t have any hate for him.  —   Kurt Metzger (@kurtmetzger) February 13, 2016,  Just to make sure I understand your argument: you want me to show respect for the death of a hateful man who disrespected so many lives?  —   Moshe Kasher (@moshekasher) February 13, 2016,  This editor at Digg gives a snapshot of how Brooklyn is reacting: I can hear a neighbor dancing and singing that Scalia is dead,  —   David Weiner (@daweiner) February 13, 2016,  While not Verified, these accounts are also prominent figures in media: Silvia Killingsworth is managing editor of The New Yorker. Wish I could be a fly on the wall for Scalia’s chat with the Devil,  —   Silvia Killingsworth (@silviakillings) February 13, 2016,  Died in a ranch in Texas, God bless America,  —   Silvia Killingsworth (@silviakillings) February 13, 2016,  Mike Montero is a web designer, author, and public speaker: Please make sure to separate Scalia’s head from his body before burial.  —   Mike Monteiro (@monteiro) February 13, 2016,  Charles Finch is the author of a series of mystery novels and writes about books for several national publications. I mean, if you don’t want your death politicized, don’t lead a repugnant and profoundly influential political life.  —   Charles Finch (@CharlesFinch) February 13, 2016,  Randi Mayem Singer is a screenwriter and producer for several family films, including Mrs. Doubtfire. What will Scalia think when he gets to heaven and there are no corporations there?  —   Randi Mayem Singer (@rmayemsinger) February 13, 2016,  Connor Kilpatrick is an editor for the openly socialist Jacobin magazine.   confirms Scalia’s death: ”I felt a great disturbance in the Force, as if millions of voices suddenly cried out in orgiastic joy  …    ”  —   Connor Kilpatrick (@ckilpatrick) February 13, 2016, 