Next Sunday Pope Francis will declare Mother Teresa a saint, the very woman who fought Hillary Clinton tooth and nail for her abortion advocacy. [Before some 3, 000 people at the National Prayer Breakfast at the Washington DC Hilton Hotel in 1994 —  including   Bill and Hillary Clinton, and Al and Tipper Gore —  Mother Teresa spoke passionately about abortion, calling it the “greatest destroyer of peace today,” a “war against the child,” and “murder by the mother herself. ”  “And if we accept that a mother can kill even her own child, how can we tell other people not to kill one another?” the nun continued. “By abortion, the mother does not learn to love, but kills even her own child to solve her problems,” she said. “Any country that accepts abortion is not teaching its people to love, but to use any violence to get what they want. This is why the greatest destroyer of love and peace is abortion. ” The swelling applause swept across the room, erupting into a standing ovation that lasted some five or six minutes. The room was awash with clapping, with one conspicuous exception. At the head table, a few feet away from Mother Teresa, the Clintons and the Gores sat in stony silence, not clapping, not standing. If only she had kept her mouth shut about abortion and stuck to a politically correct script condemning poverty and urging greater government involvement in social assistance, all would have been fine. But Teresa was convinced that the unborn child was truly the poorest of the poor, and deserved protection against those who would seek to destroy it. One year earlier, Hillary had urged her husband Bill on the very first day of his presidency to sign five executive orders authorizing federal funding for abortion, galvanizing the U. S. government’s sordid partnership with Planned Parenthood. And seven months after the Prayer Breakfast, Hillary Clinton sent a virulent   delegation to work against Mother Teresa at the Cairo Conference on Population and Development, attempting to coerce the world into accepting abortion as a basic human right. America’s largest abortion provider Planned Parenthood, who earlier this year made an unprecedented $20 million donation to Hillary Clinton’s campaign, nursed a special hatred toward the Albanian nun for her vocal condemnation of abortion. In a 1986 article titled “Mother Teresa, the Woman of My Nightmares,” a West Germany affiliate of the abortion giant laid into the diminutive nun and her   legacy. “This very successful old and withered person, who doesn’t look in the least like a woman, especially when she raises her clenched fists in prayer, and who, for us, is a very suspect holder of the Nobel Prize,” they wrote in an official publication, Sexualpedagogik, “has become for us the symbol of all that is bad in motherhood and womanhood, an image with which we do not wish to be associated. ” “You, you nightmare of women! You unliberated, enslaved wives, mothers, nuns and aunts, what do you want from us, who have finally decided that we are going to take control of our bodies, our children, and our destiny into our own hands?” the Planned Parenthood essay ran. On Sunday the world will once again be reminded of the life of a woman who gave her entire life in selfless service of the poor and vulnerable. As Pope Francis canonizes Mother Teresa, we will also be reminded that the most vulnerable among us are the voiceless unborn children who can be legally eliminated at any moment, whom Teresa fought valiantly to defend and whom Hillary is committed to forgetting. Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter: @tdwilliamsrome