Gaga, Rihanna, Ariana  …     Bruce. [Transgender reality TV personality Bruce Jenner was introduced as the new face of MAC Cosmetics on Friday, officially making the Olympian gold medalist the first transgender model to secure a beauty contract with a major makeup retailer.  According to Page Six, Jenner inked a deal with MAC that is rumored to be worth at least seven figures and gives him his own signature lipstick. The deal will also assist the Estée   company in becoming more involved with the transgender community, as all profits from Jenner’s “Finally Free” lipstick will benefit the M•A•C AIDS Fund Transgender Initiative, per the company’s website. Jenner took to Instagram on Friday to share details of the agreement with his followers.  I’m finally free to announce my partnership with @MACcosmetics! All sales of our lipstick shade, Finally Free, go toward improving transgender communities. Look for it in April! #MACCaitlynJenner (Link in bio) A photo posted by Caitlyn Jenner (@caitlynjenner) on Feb 26, 2016 at 1:00pm PST,  “I’m finally free to announce my partnership with @MACcosmetics,” wrote Jenner. “All sales of our lipstick shade, Finally Free, go toward improving transgender communities. ” The company shared additional details of the partnership on its website: Today, M•A•C is proud to announce a partnership with Caitlyn Jenner that begins with the April 7 launch, exclusively on maccosmetics. com, of a   Lipstick created by Caitlyn. One hundred percent of the sales from her signature shade, Finally Free, will benefit the M•A•C AIDS Fund Transgender Initiative to expand its support of much needed grants to organizations and programs dedicated to improving transgender lives. Here, we speak with her about the transformative power of beauty and what it means to be Finally Free. Page Six reported last summer Jenner was in talks with the company for an endorsement deal, however, MAC denied the report. The company instead released a statement praising Jenner and affirming its stance as a strong supporter of LGBT issues. “M·A·C Cosmetics is a brand that embraces ALL AGES, ALL RACES and ALL SEXES and is a longstanding supporter of the LGBT community,” the company said. “We are inspired by Caitlyn Jenner, her personal journey and we admire her courage and beauty. ” In a feature of Jenner for the deal, MAC compared the 1976 Associated Press Male Athlete of the Year to a “superhero. ” “She’s   beautiful. She is on a mission to do good. And at 6’1” (6’5” in heels) one gets the distinct impression that she could leap a tall building in a single bound, if she wanted to,” wrote the company. Jenner’s    daughter Kendall currently models for Estée Lauder. Ever wonder how to make a video go viral? @KendallJenner’s got some tips: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Estée Lauder (@EsteeLauder) January 20, 2016, 