Presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump responded to the terrorist attack in Orlando, Florida on Sunday and renewed his call to ban Muslims from entering the United States until a proper vetting system is put into place. [“Last night, our nation was attacked by a radical Islamic terrorist,” Trump stated in a press release after previously calling for President Obama to resign for not using the words “radical Islamic terrorism. ” “It was the worst terrorist attack on our soil since   and the second of its kind in 6 months. My deepest sympathy and support goes out to the victims, the wounded, and their families. ”  In his remarks today, President Obama disgracefully refused to even say the words ‘Radical Islam’. For that reason alone, he should step down. If Hillary Clinton, after this attack, still cannot say the two words ‘Radical Islam’ she should get out of this race for the Presidency. If we do not get tough and smart real fast, we are not going to have a country anymore. Because our leaders are weak, I said this was going to happen  —   and it is only going to get worse. I am trying to save lives and prevent the next terrorist attack. We can’t afford to be politically correct anymore. Trump included in his press release that Omar Mateen, the terrorist, is a son of an Afghan immigrant “who openly published his support for the Afghanistani Taliban and even tried to run for President of Afghanistan. According to Pew, 99% of people in Afghanistan support oppressive Sharia Law. ” Trump’s press release continued: We admit more than 100, 000 lifetime migrants from the Middle East each year. Since   hundreds of migrants and their children have been implicated in terrorism in the United States. Hillary Clinton wants to dramatically increase admissions from the Middle East, bringing in many hundreds of thousands during a first term  —   and we will have no way to screen them, pay for them, or prevent the second generation from radicalizing. We need to protect all Americans, of all backgrounds and all beliefs, from Radical Islamic Terrorism  —   which has no place in an open and tolerant society. Radical Islam advocates hate for women, gays, Jews, Christians and all Americans. I am going to be a President for all Americans, and I am going to protect and defend all Americans. We are going to make America safe again and great again for everyone. Trump tweeted about the terrorist attack all day on Sunday, reaffirming his ban on Muslims entering the United States until a proper vetting system is put into place. “What has happened in Orlando is just the beginning. Our leadership is weak and ineffective. I called it and asked for the ban. Must be tough,” Trump posted on Twitter. He also tweeted, “Reporting that Orlando killer shouted “Allah hu Akbar!” as he slaughtered clubgoers. 2nd man arrested in LA with rifles near Gay parade. ”