In an interview with Breitbart National Security Editor Dr. Sebastian Gorka, Fox News host Sean Hannity showed a video compilation of President Obama’s staunch defense and praise of Islam over the years contrasted with his critical comments about Christianity. [Hannity introduced the video clip during a discussion of Obama’s refusal to use the term “radical Islam” to identify the enemy  —   a refusal which he doubled down on in a speech on Tuesday that Gorka described as “petulant” and “outrageous. ”  “[Obama] said that, ‘What difference does it make what we call it?’ Well, what if you went to a doctor’s clinic with a serious illness, you had tuberculosis, and the doctor says, ‘I’m going to call what you have the flu or a common cold. Here’s a couple of aspirins. Go home,’” Gorka explained. Watch the video above. Below is a partial transcript: SEAN HANNITY: Here with reaction, author of Defeating Jihad: The Winnable War, the distinguished chair of military theory at Marine Corps University, Dr. Sebastian Gorka. Let’s look at this attack. Let’s look at it from a law enforcement standpoint. Here they had all the information about this guy. He said he was part of al Qaeda. He said he was part of Hezbollah, cheered on   all these indicators, on a watch list, taken off a watch list. Big mistake? SEBASTIAN GORKA: Well, clearly, it is a big mistake because this man has killed 49 Americans. Yes, we don’t know exactly how the decision was made. I work with members of the FBI, and they’re good people. They’re patriots. Most of the big problems we’ve seen in the last seven years come out of the DOJ. It’s the DOJ that puts the political correctness matrix on top of the FBI. HANNITY: OK. If the FBI, the DOJ, Homeland Security  —   if they knew about the Orlando terrorist, they ultimately did nothing. They didn’t follow up on the guy. You know, are we supposed to believe that the Syrian refugees that the president wants to bring into the country and Hillary Clinton wants to bring into the country that they say they can vet properly, even though our intelligence officials say ISIS will infiltrate  —   how dangerous is that? GORKA: Hugely dangerous. ISIS has stated in their English language publications, Sean, that they will and they are using the refugee streams. We saw in Europe, we saw people using false Syrian passports exploiting the refugee streams to execute the attacks that were just like the attack in Orlando. So we don’t have to hypothesize. It’s happened already, and they say they want to do more. HANNITY: One of the things I like about your book is you say we can defeat jihad. OK, we have Chattanooga, we have Boston, we have San Bernardino, now we have Orlando. We had Belgium. We had Paris. We don’t seem to be winning this war, and a president that is   and passionately today saying he doesn’t have to say or identify radical Islam for what it is. GORKA: But passionate in his petulance. That speech was outrageous! HANNITY: That’s a great line. He was petulant today. GORKA: Totally! He said that, “What difference does it make what we call it?” Well, what if you went to a doctor’s clinic with a serious illness, you had tuberculosis, and the doctor says, “I’m going to call what you have the flu or a common cold. Here’s a couple of aspirins. Go home. ” HANNITY: What if in World War II, we didn’t identify Nazism for what it is or imperial Japan for the enemy that they are? GORKA: This is  —   this is  …     HANNITY: Or Reagan saying the evil empire! GORKA: Right. This is when you have to bring Americans together. Those people weren’t gay people, they were Americans! HANNITY: By the way, under sharia, radical Islamists, if it was a group of women dancing  …     GORKA: Right! HANNITY:   …     they would feel justified in doing this. GORKA: Right, listening to music. HANNITY: Listening to music. GORKA: The Taliban banned music in Afghanistan! HANNITY: All right, I’m trying to understand, it’s pathological at this point to me, the president, Hillary Clinton and the Democrats  …     GORKA: It is. HANNITY: It’s inexplicable. It’s  —   you know, I don’t understand this mysterious reluctance and resistance to identify an enemy. I want to play some things for you. Let’s first go to The New York Times’s Nicholas Kristof and they talked about Obama when he was in a Muslim school. He said, “He recalled”  —   in a first rate accent, by the way  —   “the opening lines of the Arabic call to prayer, reciting them with a first rate accent in a remark that seemed delightfully uncalculated, and it’ll give Alabama voters a heart attack, but Mr. Obama described the call to Muslim prayer as one of the prettiest sounds on earth at sunset. ” Now, I’m going to play for you back to back his comments about Islam and his comments about Christianity, and I want you to respond. Let’s roll the tape. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The United States is not and will never be at war with Islam. And I’m also proud to carry with me the goodwill of the American people and a greeting of peace from Muslim communities in my country, As Salaam Aleikum. Islam is not part of the problem in combating violent extremism, it is an important part of promoting peace. Our enemies respect no religious freedom. Al Qaeda’s cause is not Islam. It’s a gross distortion of Islam. The future must not belong to those who slander the prophet of Islam. ISIL is not Islamic. No religion condones the killing of innocents, and the vast majority of ISIL’s victims have been Muslim. We’ve reaffirmed again and again the United States is not and never will be at war with Islam. Islam teaches peace. Remember that during the Crusades and the Inquisition, people committed terrible deeds in the name of Christ. Slavery and Jim Crow all too often was justified in the name of Christ. On Easter, I do reflect on the fact that as a Christian, I am supposed to love, and I have to say that sometimes, when I listen to less than loving expressions by Christians, I get concerned. (END VIDEO CLIP) HANNITY: He won’t say “radical Islam. ” You heard his comments about Islam, terrible deeds in the name of Christ. GORKA: Horrific! What nation are we? Who were the Founding Fathers? What Creator are they referring to in our founding documents? Are they referring to Allah or some nameless blob? No. They’re referring to the God of the New Testament. HANNITY:   values. GORKA: Absolutely! Why is the sympathy always for the other? Why is America the problem, Sean? HANNITY: OK, now let’s add to this an Iranian deal where you give the number one state sponsor of terror $150 billion. Let’s add to that American bloodshed for Ramadi and Mosul and Fallujah and Tikrit. Let’s add to that Muhammad Morsi, former head of the Muslim Brotherhood, a terrorist organization, becomes the head, the president of Egypt, and he gives them tanks,   and $1   a guy that referred to the Israelis as descendants of apes and pigs. He’s on the wrong side all of the time! GORKA: And when a man comes along who’s a Muslim who says, I’m not letting the [Muslim] Brotherhood steal my country  —   I’ve met President Sisi. What do we do? We reject him! HANNITY: President Sisi had has more courage to stand up to radicalism than the president of the United States! GORKA: He’s on the front lines. HANNITY: But here’s my question. Why? What is it? GORKA: Look, let’s leave conspiracy theories to the side. HANNITY: It’s not a conspiracy! It’s inexplicable to me! GORKA: I’ll give you the explanation. This man comes from a certain ideological background, OK? His buddy was Bill Ayers. He grew up with a certain  …     HANNITY: Bernadine Dohrn  …     GORKA: Right! HANNITY:   …     Reverend Wright  …     GORKA: Right. HANNITY:   …     ACORN, Alinsky  …     GORKA: Right. HANNITY:   …     Frank Marshall Davis. GORKA: And what’s the common denominator? America is the problem. Whatever the issue is, we are the problem. And as a result, he’s always going to sympathize with who? The bad guys. This idea that this guy had a twisted sexual identity in Orlando, he was suffering  —   we’re going to make the perpetrator out to be the victim eventually! It’s unconscionable, Sean! HANNITY: I don’t think anybody else in the media will put that together, what we just did. GORKA: No. And I’m glad you did it. That’s powerful. HANNITY: Sebastian, good to see you. Thank you. GORKA: Thank you, Sean.