Even as Obama Administration officials fall all over themselves in a mad dash to label Orlando jihadi Omar Mateen “” more information about the people who helped him   is coming to light. [Fox News reported that Mateen was enrolled in the online “Fundamental Islamic Knowledge Seminary,” recently renamed the Timbuktu Seminary, which is run by a   cleric named Abu Taubah, a. k. a. Marcus Dwayne Robertson.  Robertson was just released from prison last year, despite “warnings from prosecutors that he would recruit people to carry out violent acts. ” He was in prison for weapons and tax fraud charges. Part of his tax fraud scheme involved illegally obtaining a tax refund to finance sending one of his students abroad for terrorist training. “He was considered so dangerous that he was kept shackled with his own security detail away from other inmates,” the UK Daily Mail writes. “Whenever he was transported to court, authorities had a   caravan of armed federal marshals escort him. He was eventually moved to solitary confinement after prison officials discovered that he was trying to radicalize his fellow inmates. ” He was, in fact, successful in radicalizing at least 36 of those inmates. Before his prison stint, he was an undercover FBI informant on the terrorism beat, until he got bounced for “allegedly attacking his CIA handler. ” Before that, Robertson, a former U. S. Marine, worked as a bodyguard for “Blind Sheikh” Omar Abdel Rahman, mastermind of the first World Trade Center bombing, and ran a   operation that was dubbed “Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves. ” CounterJihad offers a taste of what online video instruction at Abu Taubah’s Fundamental Islamic Knowledge Seminary is like: In the videos —  which date from 2008 and feature almost 17, 000 views —  Robertson argues strongly for separation from  . His strict opposition to western culture is not the result of an upbringing abroad, or “Internet radicalization” Robertson is, himself, a Muslim convert from New York. It is, instead, a reflection of his adherence to strict Islamic doctrine which holds homosexuality sinful, illegal, and ultimately, worthy of the death penalty, a position held not just by relatively small time internet preachers like Robertson, but even mainstream clerics with massive followings and deemed “moderate” by many. In the first video, Robertson invokes the Quranic story of Lut (Lot) and Allah’s destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, before telling his audience (which consists of adult men and young boys) that the Muslim community has been “too weak and not ready” to address the issue of homosexuality “in a proper manner”. (Part 1, 8:16) Robertson criticizes the Muslim community for being “afraid” to deal with the issue, for fear of upsetting the American majority. Robertson goes on to criticize American Muslims for providing their children with clothing and toys which he describes using the slur “f**got. ” In particular, he denounces Nickelodeon cartoon character Spongebob Square Pants as “gay,” warning that it was “put into this society” to promote homosexuality. At one point Robertson puts the question to the audience: “Are you raising Muslims? Or are you raising f**gots?” (Part 2, 2:21) Robertson also accuses public schools of promoting homosexuality, and urges parents to send children to Islamic schools, and for the community to create new Islamic schools. Robertson goes on to blame homosexuality on the American ideals of freedom, saying, “The concept of America is that you are God: you do what you want to do you follow your desires” (Part 2: 8:29) He also thinks 80% of American men were sexually molested as children, and believes overfeeding and spoiling children makes them gay. And yet, every official in the Obama Administration, and President Obama himself, is chanting in unison that Omar Mateen was “ . ”