After repeated body blows to her life over the last several months, Hillary Clinton’s top aide, Huma Abedin, was seen openly weeping as she walked alone on the streets of Brooklyn in the days after Election Day. [Photos of Clinton’s top aide were taken as she walked to the Clinton campaign office on Friday, three days after Secretary of State Clinton lost her second bid to become President of the United States, according to the Daily Mail.  The images reveal Abedin with a sad countenance, a quivering lip, and at one point, she was seen pushing back her sunglasses, seemingly to wipe tears away. It would be no wonder with the vicious, but ultimately losing, campaign she helped lead. In a campaign marred by constant revelations of criminal activity by the candidate, repeated federal investigations, and a tough loss, Abedin herself also experienced constant personal crisis. At the end of October, news broke that Huma’s husband, disgraced former New York Congressman Anthony Weiner, came under scrutiny for yet another illicit sexual relationship. But this time, Weiner, with whom Abedin has a child, was accused of sexually exploiting a minor. It was not long before authorities announced that charges would be filed against the former congressman. Then, just prior to the election, it was revealed that the FBI had found an additional cache of upwards to 650, 000 new Hillary Clinton emails on the various electronic devices owned jointly by Abedin and Weiner. The discovery caused the FBI to   the investigation into Clinton’s illicit emails only 11 days before Election Day, casting new light on Abedin and her role in the scandal. Worse for the   political aide, a dark cloud is still hanging over her life not only with the FBI investigation into her husband’s sexual misconduct, but the ongoing investigation into her own actions connected with Clinton’s illicit secret email server used during her tenure as Obama’s secretary of state. By many accounts, Abedin lied to the FBI during a previous investigation into Clinton’s violation of America’s national security laws. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.