Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 horse race.   —   All times eastern. 10:05: Karl Rove suggests a “fresh face” should be nominated at a contested convention in an interview with Hugh  Hewitt: . @KarlRove told @hughhewitt today, ”A fresh face might be the thing that could give [GOP] a chance to win in November against Hillary.”  —   Jake Browatzke (@jakebrowatzke) April 1, 2016,  9:59: Dolores Huerta uses Cesar Chavez day to praise Clinton: Remember Cesar Chavez today! We have fought for the rights of farmworkers for many years. Our struggle continues. Hillary is always with us!  —   Dolores Huerta (@DoloresHuerta) March 31, 2016,  9:52: MSNBC responds to Trump’s claims that his “convoluted” conversation with Matthews may have been edited. MSNBC aired the full exchange. Trump may have been referring to the   that other networks may have played: MSNBC issues statement on Trump’s claim on Fox that MSNBC edited down abortion exchange: pic. twitter.   —   Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) April 1, 2016,  9:36: When Maddow asks what Ginsburg was doing at RNC headquarters today, he says it had “nothing to do with” Trump’s meeting. He says he was at the building because he had a meeting with his friends and clients at the National Republican Congressional Committee two floors down. 9:35: Ben Ginsburg, the establishment Republican super lawyer who is the convention rules master, tells Rachel Maddow that there is not a rule in place for the 2016 convention until the delegates, who are not yet chosen for the most part, decide what the rules should be in Cleveland when asked about rule 40 (candidate must get a majority of the delegates from eight states to win the nomination). Ginsburg said in 2008, the rule was five states with a plurality and he suspects the rule will change in Cleveland again. 9:31: Maddow says there is a suspicion that Cruz is being “used like a mule” to get to a contested convention. 9:30: Booker stumps for Clinton in Wisconsin and claims on MSNBC that Clinton is transparent: Sen. @CoryBooker says @HillaryClinton has been ”very transparent” in email scandal: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   MSNBC (@MSNBC) March 31, 2016,  New Jersey US Senator Cory Booker stomps for Hillary Clinton in Waukesha and Milwaukee pic. twitter.   —   Mike Anderson (@MAndersonWISN) March 31, 2016,  9:25: D. C. Dems say Sanders will be on ballot: D. C. Dems: Bernie will end up on ballot https:  .  | Getty pic. twitter.   —   POLITICO (@politico) April 1, 2016,  8:50: Rosario Dawson: “Shame on you, Hillary. ” But she says she has to watch her “tone” because she wants another debate. Rosario Dawson: ”Shame on you #Hillary!  Oh sorry, hold on, let me watch my tone.” :) #BernieSanders #SouthBronx #NY pic. twitter.   —   #ForThePeople (@BernieVolunteer) March 31, 2016,  8:45: Sanders campaign blasts Clinton for bad favorability ratings in New York and fossil fuels: Tad Devine: ”When I am describing a weak   it’s somebody who has a net unfavorable in her home state.” https:  .   —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) April 1, 2016,  The @BernieSanders campaign jumps on Clinton’s remarks to a Greenpeace activist on fossil fuel industry donations. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) April 1, 2016,  8:30: Trump delivers ratings for even MSNBC: RATINGS: MSNBC primetime was #1 in the demo and beat CNN in total viewers last night. More: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Erika Masonhall (@ErikaMasonhall) March 31, 2016,  8:25: Trump’s surrogates and others —  like Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee —  have urged Cruz to sue the National Enquirer to the put the story to rest. It sounds like Cruz is hesitant to do so: ( ) lawsuit is it just keeps the garbage in the headlines over and over again. It’s what the Trump folks want.”  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) April 1, 2016,  ( ) On Los Angeles radio, @TedCruz is asked if he’ll sue over the National Enquirer story. His response: “The problem with filing a,  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) April 1, 2016,  8:20: Spike Lee introduced Sanders: . @SpikeLee: ”Bernie has to win NY!” #FeelTheBern #WFP4Bernie #NYforBernie #BernieInTheBronx pic. twitter.   —   NY Working Families (@NYWFP) March 31, 2016,  8:15: Crowd at Sanders rally chanting “Release the Transcripts. ” As @BernieSanders gets to the Clinton Wall Street speeches part, crowd members now shout ”Release the transcripts!” pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) April 1, 2016,  8:09: Trump says he had an “amazing” meeting with his foreign policy team and they agreed with him that other countries need to pay their fair share for NATO. He says other countries are benefit and “we’re paying the tab. ” Trump says he doesn’t want to disband NATO and he never said that. But he says he doesn’t want to pay for “a vast majority” of the costs. He says America is not being treated fairly worldwide. 8:07: Trump says he’s the last person who would play the nuclear card but  you can’t take any cards off of the table. 8:06: Trump says Matthews abortion question was “a long, convoluted question. ” He claims he has had the same stance on abortion as Ronald Reagan. He says it could be that he misspoke but it was a long “convoluted” discussion. 8:05: Trump says he didn’t address whether the “1237” number could be changed at a potential contested convention. Trump says he doesn’t believe anyone will want to play around with that number and he says he thinks he will get 1, 237 delegates before the convention. 8:04: Cruz against Building New Chargers Stadium with Tax Hikes: On San Diego radio, @TedCruz says he would vote no on a proposal to build a new Chargers stadium with new tax hikes.  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 31, 2016,  8:02: On Fox News, Trump says the RNC wanted to discuss “unity” during today’s meeting. Trump says his life has been about “unity” and he gets along with people very well. He tells Eric Bolling that the meeting was “mutually called. ” 8:00: Sanders proud to have been born in New York: ”I am very proud that I was born here in New York City!” begins @BernieSanders in the Bronx tonight. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) March 31, 2016,  7:55: On MSNBC, Chris Matthews wonders why Trump doesn’t have a murder board that gets him ready for questions he knows the media will ask. Simple preparation would have prevented most of Trump’s unforced errors this election cycle. 7:20: Cruz Leads Trump in Fox Business Network’s Wisconsin poll: Cruz: 42% Trump: 32% Kasich: 19% 7:15: Sanders leads Clinton in Fox Business Network’s Wisconsin Poll: Fox Business Network Poll:  Sanders tops Clinton by five in Wisconsin  https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) March 31, 2016,  7:10: Clinton campaign responds to Sanders on fossil fuels: Clinton spox @NickMerrill’s statement on oil and gas donations following Greenpeace confrontation pic. twitter.   —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) March 31, 2016,  7:05: GRETA blasts the 16 “conservative” female   writers who demanded Trump campaign fire Lewandowski: “Each of these women has now show herself in the foot  …     by taking sides in such a public way. ” icymi pic. twitter.   —   Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) March 30, 2016,  6:45: Sanders campaign responds to Clinton’s outburst: Sanders camp: ”Clinton has fundraised heavily from lobbyists working 4 oil, gas industry”   2 Greenpeace research https:  .   —   MaryAlice Parks (@maryaliceparks) March 31, 2016,  6:20: Progressives lining up to see Sanders in New York. And may reportedly are refusing to support Clinton: Amazing. Alot of  people are awaiting Bernie Sanders in the south bronx. Say they WON’T back hillary.  #BernieSanders pic. twitter.   —   Dominic Carter (@DominicTV) March 31, 2016,  The line to see @BernieSanders in #NYC is thousands of people 10 blocks in every direction #Feelthebern https:  .   —   JamesFromTheInternet (@JamesFTInternet) March 31, 2016,  Overheard outside Bernie’s South Bronx rally: ”Follow all the white people. They are all going in there.”  —   Annie Linskey (@AnnieLinskey) March 31, 2016,  5:50: Kasich also says Trump voters are more like to be Kasich voters than Cruz voters. Kasich says he is in a dead heat with Trump in PA. Says he believes there will be a contested convention pic. twitter.   —   Ines de La Cuetara (@InesdLC) March 31, 2016,  5:40: Voters Still Don’t Like Mitt. Romney’s favorability rating worse than Trump’s. Romney more unpopular among, 5:30:   local Wisconsin radio host Charlie Sykes goes on MSNBC to get his low blow in on Fox News’s Sean Hannity. He accuses Hannity of being a Trump “fan boy. ” 5:20: Hillary Snaps at Greenpeace Activist When Asked Challenged on Donations from Fossil Fuels Industry. She says she is “so sick” of Sanders’s campaign lying about her: 5:15: Jindal says he is not going to endorse between Cruz and Kasich. He says he endorsed himself first and then Rubio and his endorsement doesn’t mean much this election cycle. He says he wouldn’t feel comfortable serving in a Trump administration and says Trump would not ask him. He says he doesn’t have respect for him as a conservative. 5:12: Jindal says he is comfortable with Republicans doing whatever it takes, “in a fair way,” to stop Trump. 5:10: On MSNBC’s MTP Daily, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal says hopefully this is the week that Trump “jumps the shark. ” He says he is not a fan of Trump and there is still time to beat him but he is going to support his party’s nominee because the country can’t afford to have Clinton in the White House. Jindal asks Trump to convince conservatives that he will surround himself with strong conservatives in his administration.   5:00: Cruz’s nose keeps growing and growing in Kasich Super PAC’s Ad Slamming ‘Lyin’ Ted.’ 4:58: Carly Fiorina, Heidi Cruz, Mike Lee to Campaign for Cruz in Wisconsin Tomorrow. 4:55: Kasich slams Trump: No ‘ ’ in White House, “As a commander in chief and leader of the free world, you don’t get ” he said. “You need to be able to get it right the first time. ” 4:45: Clinton Campaign Already Cuts Ad Featuring Trump’s Abortion Remarks:   4:20: RNC Spokeswoman on Trump Meeting: RNC releases statement on ”productive conversation” between Trump and Reince Priebus: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) March 31, 2016,  RNC’s @LWalters ”The Chairman and Mr. Trump had a productive conversation about the state of the race.”  —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) March 31, 2016,  4:15: Trump Has Won Electability Vote in Every State Except for Ohio since March 1: Since March 1st, Trump has won the “electability” vote in all but Ohio: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CookPoliticalReport (@CookPolitical) March 31, 2016,  4:13: Clinton Campaign Chair Says Sanders Should Be on D. C. Ballot: An administrative error should not keep a candidate off the ballot. Let’s get @BernieSanders on the ballot in DC.  —   John Podesta (@johnpodesta) March 31, 2016,  4:10: GOP risks bad optics if Trump heads into convention with most delegates and loses nomination: Even if rules allow it, stopping Trump at the convention if he’s ahead risks looking like a cabal of elites overturning the will of voters.  —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) March 31, 2016,  4:08: Will Trump’s pledge cost him delegates in South Carolina?     South Carolina GOP Chair responds: Regarding delegate questions today: to be clear, no one is seeking to unbind ANY of South Carolina’s national delegates.  —   Matt Moore (@MattMooreSC) March 31, 2016,  4:05: Karen Giorno of the Trump campaign says everyone should be “offended” by Ted Cruz’s joke about wanting to run over Donald Trump. 3:55: Trump meets with RNC to talk about the convention, delegates. Trump waves at media while leaving RNC meeting in DC pic. twitter.   —   Jesse Byrnes (@jessebyrnes) March 31, 2016,  ”Main purpose” of   mtg ”was to talk about the convention, delegates  …    ”  —   @JohnJHarwood citing Trump aide, now with @tvkatesnow,  —   Ari Melber (@AriMelber) March 31, 2016,  Just had a very nice meeting with @Reince Priebus and the @GOP. Looking forward to bringing the Party together  —   and it will happen!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 31, 2016, 