SEOUL, South Korea  —   South Korea’s recently impeached president, Park   was arrested on Friday, becoming the first South Korean leader to be put behind bars since the mid 1990s, when two former military dictators were imprisoned on corruption and mutiny charges. Ms. Park’s dramatic downfall capped months of turmoil and intrigue, as huge crowds took to the streets to protest a sprawling corruption scandal that shook the interlocking worlds of government and business  —   including the leadership of Samsung, the nation’s largest conglomerate. A judge at the Seoul Central District Court issued the warrant early Friday morning, warning that if Ms. Park were not taken into custody quickly she might “destroy evidence. ” The charges against her include bribery, extortion and abuse of power. In December, the National Assembly voted overwhelmingly to impeach Ms. Park, and she was formally removed from office on March 10. Her removal rattled the delicate balance of relationships across Asia at a tense moment. Ms. Park’s conservatives, in power for four years, had joined the United States in pressing for a hard line against North Korea’s nuclear program. She had accepted Washington’s deployment of an advanced missile defense system that has angered China, which is fearful of an arms race in the region. Moon   the liberal opposition leader considered most likely to win the May 9 election to select a new president, has vowed to review that decision, as well as an unpopular deal she struck with Japan over the   comfort women, or Korean sex slaves, used by Japan’s army during World War II. Mr. Moon is also viewed as less confrontational toward North Korea and China, and has advocated dialogue to halt the North’s nuclear and missile threats. Ms. Park had spent the night in the prosecutor’s office waiting to learn if she would be placed under arrest. Shortly after 3 a. m. Judge Kang   issued the warrant and Ms. Park was taken to a jail outside Seoul, the South Korean capital. Prosecutors had already said that they would indict the former president on 13 criminal charges regardless of whether the judge issued an arrest warrant. Once her trial begins in the coming weeks, Ms. Park will commute from her cell to a Seoul courthouse. Ms. Park was accused of conspiring with a longtime confidante, Choi   to collect tens of millions of dollars from big businesses, including more than $38 million in bribes from Samsung. Both Ms. Choi and Samsung’s top executive, Lee   have previously been arrested and are standing trial on charges including bribery. On Thursday, hundreds of emotional supporters were gathered near her   red brick house in southern Seoul as her motorcade pulled out for the hearing. Some tried to push past police officers lining the road. “We can’t let you go!” they shouted, some of them trying to hurl themselves onto the road. Protesters also threw yellow plastic police fences at uniformed officers who tried to push them back. The   ride was nationally televised, with a fleet of television crews following her car. If she is convicted of bribery, Ms. Park, 65, could face between 10 years and life in prison, although her successor has the power to free her with a special presidential pardon. Ms. Park’s arrest added another tragic chapter to the story of her family, which has mirrored the country’s tumultuous modern history. Her father, Park   who ruled South Korea from 1961 to 1979, was considered the initiator of the country’s dramatic economic growth but was also vilified as a dictator who used martial law and torture to silence dissidents. In 1974, her mother, Yuk   was fatally shot by a   Korean assassin who had targeted her husband. Ms. Park’s father was assassinated five years later by his spy chief. After leaving the presidential Blue House, Ms. Park lived in seclusion, unmarried and without children. In the succeeding decades, while the country moved toward democracy, her family drew little attention. Then in the late 1990s, as the economy faltered in the financial spasms that engulfed Asia, and South Koreans began yearning for the kind of charismatic and stern leadership her father represented, Ms. Park was catapulted into political stardom. She seized the opportunity and won a parliamentary seat in 1998, casting herself as a faithful daughter on a mission to rebuild the nation and restore the honor of her father and his generation, whom she credited with fighting Communism and creating a vibrant,   economy from the ashes of the   Korean War. In 2013, she returned to the Blue House, her childhood home, after winning the presidential election. She was the first child of a former president to win the presidency. Older South Koreans were among her most fervent supporters, while critics warned that she was trying to take the country back to its authoritarian past. Four years later, her career ended in disgrace. In a speech last November, as the growing scandal paralyzed her government, she tearfully confided that she regretted ever becoming president. While a majority of South Koreans believe her ouster was merited, Ms. Park’s fall from grace has been hard to accept for many older, conservative South Koreans who still worshiped her father and family as Koreans once did their ancient kings. “Your highness, I am so sorry that I am powerless to protect you,” an old woman recently wailed on the pavement in front of Ms. Park’s home. “Please forgive me, your highness. ” Since she returned to her home on March 12, hundreds of supporters holding South Korean flags have been rallying daily outside the house to protest her impeachment and oppose her arrest. Ms. Park, who has never accepted the Constitutional Court ruling that ended her presidency, did not answer questions shouted from reporters as she walked into the courthouse on Thursday. But she had earlier denied any legal wrongdoing. Last fall, local news media and former associates of Ms. Choi’s began exposing lurid details of Ms. Park’s alleged conspiracy to abuse her presidential authority to help Ms. Choi, one of her few friends, to collect bribes or extort large “donations” from big businesses. With the economy slowing and youth unemployment rising, the allegations convinced people that Ms. Park had inherited the worst traits of her father: an authoritarian streak and corrupt ties with the business elite. They took to the streets in central Seoul, up to two million at a time, marching peacefully to demand her resignation. When she refused to step down, the National Assembly voted overwhelmingly to impeach her on Dec. 9, and she was formally removed from office on March 10. Ms. Park was the first South Korean leader to be forced from office in response to popular pressure since the country’s founding president, Syngman Rhee, fled into exile in Hawaii in 1960 after protests against his corrupt, authoritarian rule. Two former presidents  —   the military dictators Chun   and Roh    —   were arrested in 1995 on charges of each collecting hundreds of millions of dollars in bribes. The two men, former army generals, also faced sedition and mutiny charges for their roles in the 1979 military coup that brought them to power and in the 1980 massacre of antigovernment demonstrators in the southwestern city of Gwangju. Mr. Chun was sentenced to life in prison while Mr. Roh was sentenced to 17 years. Both were pardoned and released in December 1997.