The year 2015 has been one of great gains for America’s newest generation of professional   Black Lives Matter, and their allies in the elite media. [It has also been a year of wanton death and destruction for black people in   cities. That devastation has been brought about with much more consistency at the hands of other blacks, than by bad cops.  But with the help of some senseless slogans —  ”Hands up! Don’t Shoot! —  2015 was the year that fallacy replaced fact. Any meaningful discourse on the main motivator of death for black Americans was shoved aside and replaced by cable TV economics. Nevermind that “white police officers killing unarmed black men represented less than 4 percent of fatal police shootings,” according to a Washington Post study. Americans were repeatedly beaten over the head with a   hebdomadal lie that black people should live under constant fear of being shot by a   cop. Sitting through this year’s seemingly endless stream of “White Cop Kills Unarmed Black Teen” news updates felt like I was trapped in a horrific dream, being tortured to death by Freddy Krueger. During the last Democratic debate, Hillary Clinton proclaimed “systemic racism and injustice and inequities” as “one of the most important challenges facing not just our next president but our country. ” Bernie Sanders said, “I think we need to make wage a major effort, to come together as a country and end institutional racism. ” Martin O’Malley mused about how he, as mayor of Baltimore, promised to improve ways to “police the police. ” The Democratic Party’s best and brightest blame racism for black America’s ills. But that logic is as absurd as it is asinine. Through 2015, nearly 80 percent of those murdered in Chicago have been black people. In Baltimore, there have been hundreds of killings and most of the victims are black. The same can be said about Philadelphia —  also known as “Killadelphia. ” Detroit clocked 295 killings in 2015, down 5 from the previous year. The most menacing murder came just days ago after a    girl was gunned down while playing with her Christmas presents. The last Republican mayor of Detroit was elected when Dwight Eisenhower was president. Murders in Cleveland are up for the third straight year. Murders in Atlanta saw a similar increase. Atlanta is a Democratic Party monopoly from top to bottom. Cleveland hasn’t had a Republican mayor in more than 25 years. Again, white supremacy is not to blame for this carnage. Nor is it   or a lack of gun laws. Hello! It’s the    violence, stupid! Black people are slaughtered in   cities —  year in and year out —  but no one wants to talk about that. About 95 percent of the black people killed in 2015 were killed by other black people. Their deaths came in cities run almost exclusively by Democrats. Note to Black Lives Matter: Democratic politicians have created the hellhole communities of crime from which you want to toss police officers. Reforms should be enacted immediately, wherever there are instances of corruption and  . But let’s not kid ourselves, folks. Black America’s prevailing problem is not bad cops killing us. It’s us killing us. So how do we fix this mess? The majority of America looks on at this   carnage and wonders: Where is the equal outrage over all the black people killing each other? It’s a fair question. Sadly, though, for professional race hustlers, results —  or racial harmony —  is not good for business. The “White Cop Killed Unarmed Black Man” news narrative legitimizes a Black Lives Matter movement that wants to weaken America’s police departments. That headline emboldens a Democratic Party that needs to divide America as a means to win elections. And the     news package is gold for a     Complex desperate for content. Thusly, this iron triangle is ceaselessly committed to a progressive ideology on race in America that it must protect and promote, at all costs, as a means to secure each respective goal. So simply talking about the persistent problem of    violence, or solving it, would disrupt the agenda of America’s insidious   hydra. What’s next? For the elite liberal media, Black Lives Matter will be the racist gift that keeps on giving. For you, the 99 percent of Americans who are not racists and are fed up, in the words of Obama: “Voting’s the best revenge. ” In the meantime, we will all suffer together, walk toward the fire, onward, under the tattered banner of Obamaism. And with that said, Happy New Year! Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson.