Hadas Gold of Politico has published the transcript of an audio recording of the moment when Breitbart News reporter Michelle Fields was grabbed at a Donald Trump campaign event. [Washington Post reporter Ben Terris identified Corey Lewandowski, Trump’s campaign manager, as the man who pulled her away from the candidate, bruising her arm. Lewandowski has denied any responsibility in the incident.   From Politico: *** Din of people talking, clanking of glasses, snippets of conversation, reporters telling one another to ‘move up a little’ greeting each other, saying ‘good to see you’ saying ‘OK good quote then’ then clearly action picks up as cameras start clicking. Fields: “Mr. Trump, you went after the late Scalia for affirmative action, do you  —   are you still against affirmative action?” Voice (allegedly Corey Lewandowski): “Excuse me, thank you. ” A few moments later (noise of the room can be heard)  …     Terris: “You OK?” Fields: “Holy sh*t. ” Terris: “Yea he just threw you down. ” Fields: “I can’t believe he just did that that was so hard. Was that Corey?” Terris: “Yeah, like, what threat were you?” Fields: “That was insane. You should have felt how hard he grabbed me. That’s insane. I’ve never had anyone do that to me from a campaign. ” Terris: “Can I put that in my story?” Fields: “Yeah, go for it  —   that was really awful. That’s so unprofessional. ” Terris: “He really just almost threw you down on the ground. ” Fields: “He literally went like this and was grabbing me down. I don’t even what to do [about] what he just did to me. Oh my God, that really spooked me that someone would do that. ” Terris: “What threat were you?” Fields: “Nothing. I was asking about affirmative action. ” Terris: “And he probably knows you, right?” Fields: “Yeah, I don’t understand. That looks horrible. You’re going after a Breitbart reporter, the people who are nicest to you?” Terris: “I know, I’m going to put it in my story. ” The two stop talking.   of people talking, glasses clinking continue through end of the recording. *** Read the rest of the story here.