New polling data shows that it would be virtually impossible for Hillary Clinton to win the general election if the Republican nominee were able to frame the immigration issue in populist terms that emphasize reducing the overall amount of immigration into the country and protecting jobs, incomes, and benefits for the domestic population.  The poll was conducted by Gravis Marketing, a nonpartisan research firm, in conjunction with Breitbart News Network, and surveyed a random selection of 2, 010 registered voters throughout the nation. “The poll shows that instead of dividing Americans, immigration is an issue where Americans have reached the consensus that it is a problem, maybe the problem,” said Doug Kaplan, the managing partner of Gravis Marketing. The polling data suggests that the Republican Party could see overwhelming electoral success if it were able to portray Clinton’s immigration policy as a corporatist attempt to flood the labor supply with foreign workers in order to drive down wages and incomes for American workers. As the polling data confirms, the most potent framing of the immigration issue is to focus on the numbers and scale of total immigration into the country, and to present the American people with the choice between more immigration and less immigration. Whereas the media and Democrats try to frame the immigration issue as pitting   Americans against   Americans, the polling reveals that Republicans should offer a completely different framing of the issue —   one which focuses on the interests of the domestic American population —   and all of its members (i. e.     etc.) —  versus the interests of the world’s seven billion people that live outside the United States. In other words, the media understands the words “ ” not in the context of helping actual immigrants (i. e. people living inside the United States, who were born elsewhere). Rather the media and Democrat politicians uses the term “ ” in a completely alien way —   i. e. in a way which focuses on trying to help foreign nationals who do not live in America. The new polling information underscores the importance for Republicans to reclaim the historically correct understanding of “ ” —   as meaning defending U. S. residents who have already immigrated to the country against competition for jobs and resources from foreign nationals residing outside of the country. Below are some of the poll’s findings:  —   By a nearly 6 to 1 margin, U. S. voters believe immigration should be decreased rather than increased. Every three years, the U. S. admits a population of new immigrants the size of Los Angeles. Sixty three percent of voters said that this figure is too high, whereas only a minuscule 11 percent of voters said that number is not high enough. Only 13 percent of Democrats and Independents —   and only 7 percent of Republicans —   said immigration should be increased.  —   By a    margin, voters believe that unemployed American workers should get preference for a U. S. job rather than a foreign worker brought in from another country. Seventy five percent of voters believe American workers should get U. S. jobs, whereas only 3 percent of voters believe foreign workers should be imported to fill U. S. jobs. Democrats agreed with this sentiment by a margin of roughly    (69. 8 percent who think jobs should go to unemployed Americans whereas only 2. 3 percent think foreign labor should be imported). African Americans agree with this sentiment by a margin of    (78. 5 percent who think unemployed Americans should get the jobs versus 1. 2 percent who think foreign workers should be brought in). Hispanics agree with this sentiment by a margin of    (59. 1 percent versus 2. 0 percent). There are roughly 94 million Americans operating outside the labor market today. Yet every year the U. S. admits one million plus foreign nationals on green cards, one million guest workers, dependents, and refugees, and half a million foreign students.  —   Sixty one percent of voters believe that any politician, “who would rather import foreign workers to take jobs rather than give them to current U. S. residents, is unfit to hold office. ” Yet politicians on both sides of the aisle, such as Hillary Clinton and House Speaker Paul Ryan, have pushed policies that would do just that. Clinton supported a 2013 immigration expansion bill, which would have doubled the number of foreign workers admitted to the country at a time when millions of Americans are not working. Speaker Ryan has a two decade long history of pushing for open borders. Ryan has called for enacting an immigration system that would allow foreign nationals from all over the globe to freely and legally enter the country and take any U. S. job. Speaker Ryan has explained that he believes foreign labor is necessary to help corporations keep wages low.  —   Three out of four voters believe the nation needs “an immigration system that puts American workers first, not an immigration system that serves the demands of donors seeking to reduce labor costs. ”  More than seven out of ten African Americans agreed with the sentiment that the nation’s immigration system should prioritize needs of American workers above donors who want to reduce labor costs.  —   A majority of U. S. voters (53%) believe “record amounts of immigration into the U. S. have strained school resources and disadvantaged U. S. children. ”  —   A majority of voters (55%) disagree with Hillary Clinton’s call to release illegal immigrants arriving at the border into the United States and give them a chance to apply for asylum.  A majority of women (51. 6 percent) opposed Clinton’s proposal to release illegal immigrants into the interior and allow them to apply for asylum.  —   Roughly three out of four voters —   including nearly three out of four Democrat voters —   believe that “instead of giving jobs and healthcare to millions of refugees from around the world, we should rebuild our inner cities and put Americans back to work. ”  African Americans agreed with this sentiment by a 10 to 1 margin (86. 3 percent agree versus 8. 5 percent disagree). Hispanics agreed by a margin of 5 to 1 (68. 9 percent agreed versus 12. 6 percent disagreed). The number of immigrants in the U. S. is currently at a record high of 42. 4 million. In 1970, fewer than one in 21 Americans were  . Today, as a result of the federal government’s    green card gusher championed by Ted Kennedy, nearly one in seven U. S. residents was born in a foreign country. If immigration levels remain at the same rapid pace —   without any expansions —   within seven years, the   share of the U. S. population will reach an   high. In the 1920s, the last time the   share of the population reached a record high,   Calvin Coolidge hit the pause button for roughly fifty years, producing an era of explosive wage growth and allowing immigrants already in the country to assimilate. As the polling data suggests, a majority of U. S. voters would be supportive of similar measures to reduce immigration and improve jobs, wages and benefits for the domestic population.