TEL AVIV  —   In the newly filed lawsuit on behalf of the families of the Benghazi attack victims, Hillary Clinton does not have diplomatic immunity and she is “totally exposed” to legal ramifications, according to the lawyer for the   case. [Larry Klayman, founder of Freedom Watch USA, had the lawsuit served to Clinton last week on behalf of Patricia Smith and Charles Woods, the parents of Sean Smith and Tyrone Woods respectively, both of whom were murdered in the September 11, 2012 attacks.  Klayman spoke Sunday night during an interview on this reporter’s talk radio program, Aaron Klein Investigative Radio, broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and News Talk 990 AM in Philadelphia. Part of the lawsuit charges that Clinton defamed the victims’ families and was responsible for “intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress” by “directly brand[ing] Plaintiffs as liars. ” She did so, the complaint alleges, when she contradicted the families over allegations that the Benghazi attacks were the result of a terrorist onslaught and not a protest over an   video. Regarding that section of the lawsuit, Klayman stated on the radio Sunday: She has no immunity. Some people have said without looking at the law that there is immunity or there is not. When you violate criminal statutes, Aaron, and as you know, which she did. And Rudy Giuliani, former mayor of New York, former deputy   and myself and others have pointed out the statutes that she violated.  Even the FBI director admitted, although he didn’t have the guts to recommend prosecution, you lose your immunity. There are Supreme Court cases on that. And the defamatory statements, several of them were made while Mrs. Clinton was no longer Secretary of State. They were made as a private person running for the presidency. So she has no immunity. She is totally exposed to this. And we are looking for justice. This is not a question of money. But she should lose the ranch there. Klayman charged that Clinton deliberately distorted the cause of the Benghazi attacks to further her own political ambitions: They were branded as liars and all of this was to protect Hillary Clinton’s reputation and have everything swept under the carpet during her presidential run. Now on top of that they were inflicted with emotional distress by Mrs. Clinton. She wanted to shut them up. So that’s why she did it. And they went through a lot of emotional trauma over the whole thing. And they struck back. And consequently they filed a lawsuit against her directly. A Freedom Watch press release regarding the lawsuit states: Hillary Clinton told the plaintiffs that their sons were killed as the result of a video mocking the Islamic prophet Mohammed when she knew that they were murdered by Muslim terrorists. When the families exposed her lies, she called them liars to protect her reputation and to further her own presidential ambitions. She thus defamed the parents of fallen heroes Tyrone Woods and Sean Smith, as well as committed other wrongful acts, as alleged in the complaint. Another part of the lawsuit alleges that Clinton exposed the staff at the Benghazi facility to danger by sending repeated emails related to the compound through her vulnerable private email server. The press release states: “Having used a secret private email server that we now know was used to communicate with Ambassador Christopher Stevens with confidential and classified government information, and which we also now know was likely hacked by hostile adversaries such as Iran, Russia, China and North Korea aligning with terrorist groups, it is clear that Hillary Clinton allegedly negligently and recklessly gave up the classified location of the plaintiffs’ sons, resulting in a deadly terrorist attack that took their lives. It is no coincidence that covert State   operations were being run out of Benghazi. ” Sean Smith worked in the Benghazi mission as an information management officer while Tyrone Woods was a CIA contractor. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.