Breitbart Senior Editor Milo Yiannopoulos will premiere original artwork at Lucian Wintrich’s   New York art show, #DaddyWillSaveUs on October 8th along with a host of other prominent conservative figures. [The show, which is currently selling tickets on IndieGoGo to raise the necessary funds to pay for the event, will feature Wintrich’s iconic “Twinks4Trump” photoshoot, as well as a series of new installations.  Milo is a featured artist at the event, and will submit an original piece of artwork to the show. Conservative commentator and Vice   Gavin McInnes and pharmaceutical entrepreneur and leftist folk villain Martin Shkreli will also submit pieces. Additional contributors include Martin Shkreli, James O’Keefe, the Godesky Brothers, Jon Proby, Sebastian Sommer, and more. “I think this exhibition will fight the dogma of a single accepted political ideology among artists and the creative class as a whole,” said Wintrich, the New York City resident behind Twinks4Trump. “I lost my job, received copious death threats, and to add insult to injury, close to a hundred people unfriended me on Facebook. Folks can’t handle that I’m a Trump supporter with immaculate taste. ” Wintrich will be auctioning off art pieces at the event, with 30% of the proceeds going towards the American Military Partner Association. “Who knew that the way to be on the cutting edge of controversy in the art world would be to support Donald Trump?” said Breitbart’s Milo Yiannopoulos on the event. “The LBGT community’s response to Lucian and his fellow artists is embarrassing. How can a movement dedicated to expression, pride and diversity be so dead set against diversity of opinion?” “Art is one of those areas of culture that has been dominated by the left for decades, because the left used to represent the rebellious and the  . Now, of course, it represents the establishment, and its conservatives and Trump supporters who are the new renegades. ” “I am proud to lend my artistic talents to Lucian’s project along with many others in a personal statement of support for Donald Trump and making America great again. ” You can purchase tickets for Wintrich’s #DaddyWillSaveUs event at IndieGoGo here, and you can check out the other special guests and more information about the event here. The full press release is copied below:          