Planned Parenthood tweeted a link to a Daily Beast column that claims “Trans Suicide Hotline Calls Double” after North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory signed a bill into law that affirms the   public expectation that men should use men’s bathrooms, and women should use women’s bathrooms. [.@PatMcCroryNC, pay attention! After   bill passed, calls to trans suicide hotlines doubled. https:  .  #WeAreNotThis,  —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) April 22, 2016,   According to the Beast,   “  bathroom laws like North Carolina’s HB 2 are not just inconvenient for transgender people. They may also be  . ” The report continues: Greta Gustava Martela,   of Trans Lifeline, a crisis hotline for transgender people, told The Daily Beast that their call volume has “nearly doubled” since North Carolina restricted the use of public bathrooms based on birth certificate gender markers. However, Martela also said that “suicide prevalence” among “trans” is usually in upswing mode in spring anyway. The Beast states though that the “steepness of this increase is ‘indicative of some event happening, rather than the normal season fluctuations,’” according to Martela. Between April 8 and April 16, the hotline reportedly had seen two days below 200 incoming calls, while on April 13 the call center received an “unprecedented” 357 calls. McCrory signed the bill into law on March 23. “If I had to guess what’s being impacted I think [it’s] probably people’s hope for the future,” Martela said, adding that the Republican National Committee has been supportive of legislative attacks on transgender people. 10 Myths We Must Debunk About Transgender Love, by @ConsultCatalina, leader of @YP4.   https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) April 24, 2016,  McCrory signed the privacy and public safety bill into law after an ordinance in Charlotte was passed that allowed men who simply identify as a woman to use women’s restrooms. The ordinance was pushed forward by registered sex offender Chad Sevearance. “To deny someone the ability to use a public restroom is an attempt to deny that person basic dignity,” Dr. Kristie L. Seelman, an assistant professor in the School of Social Work at Georgia State University, told the Beast. “Such a situation has a profound impact on   including mental health. ” Seelman, who conducts research on the association between “bathroom barriers” and “trans suicidality,” added, “What I’ve heard from transgender people in my past research is that not having access to a bathroom heightens their anxiety and stress, leading them to try to plan their daily lives around when and where they can find a bathroom, sometimes even getting to a point of dehydration or social isolation. ” These Photos Show Trans And Gender Diverse Kids As They Want To Be Seenhttps:  .  @lanesainty pic. twitter.   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) April 21, 2016,  Planned Parenthood is an advocate for the LGBT agenda. Some Planned Parenthood facilities are now offering hormone treatments for trans women and men. “We serve transgender people and people at various places on the spectrum of gender identity and expression,” says Planned Parenthood of the Southern Finger Lakes in New York State. “We are committed to improving the way transgender people receive health care in our region and we proudly work together with our transgender community to lead the way in eliminating barriers to care. ” Last November, the nation’s largest abortion provider tweeted that the number of “transgender murders” was at the level of a “national crisis. ” Certainly a national crisis: Transgender murders increase 84% this year. https:  .  #TDoR2015,  —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) November 22, 2015,  As Breitbart News has previously reported, according to UCLA ‘s Williams Institute  —   which also supports the transgender agenda  —   less than   of one percent of the US population identifies as “trans. ” A review of 2010 census data shows that only 1 in every 2, 400 adults want to live as members of the other sex.