 A 1994 illegal immigrant has been picked by Google and Fox to deliver a question to the GOP 2016 candidates in Thursday’s Iowa debate. [ The choice was likely intended to hit Donald Trump, whose proposed immigration reform is opposed by many company executives, including executives in Google and Fox. But any question on immigration will also hit the other GOP candidates, who are trying to balance the competing demands of business donors for more   legal and illegal immigration, versus the voters’ overwhelming demand for increased wages and salaries.    The questioner, Dulce Candy, is a young,   attractive and successful Latino who provides advice about   to young women on YouTube in exchange for payments from advertisers.  In a 2013 video, she says she was born in Mexico but crossed the U. S.  border  —   through a river and over a fence  —  with her mother and siblings in 1994, when she was six. Her father was an agricultural laborer working for Californian companies.  “We jumped fences  …     there was a guy helping us out, and we were just staring at the fence  …     some random guys trying help us cross the border, but we also crossed a river in the middle of the night  …    . some guy would carry us on his shoulder to the other side,” she said.  Her video did not explain if, or how, Candy won residency and citizenship. She did join the U. S. Army in 2006, and served for 15 months in Iraq as a mechanic and driver. The 2013 revelation that Candy came into the country illegally spurred some criticism among her peers. “It’s not fair that they all get to break the law repetitively for free while Americans get punished when we commit crimes,” according to a comment from Kimberly West, a commenter on LipstickAlley. com. Jackie Cavanagh, a spokeswoman for YouTube at MPRM Communications in Los Angeles, did not respond to an email from Breitbart. However, on Tuesday, a person told Breitbart that the “YouTube creators were selected in collaboration with Fox based on things such as audience size and their ability to bring a new, fresh perspective to the most important issues of our time. Fox informed the   of the format. ” Allison Moore, a press secretary for the RNC, told Breitbart that “We had nothing to do” with the choice of another YouTube questioner for the same debate. But neither she, nor Irena Briganti, a spokeswoman for Fox, responded when asked about the selection of the 1994 illegal immigrant.  The choice of a Latino   questioner was made by Google and Fox, whose top executives support increased   and   migration into the United States. In March 2015, for example, Google chairman Eric Schmidt told an audience in Washington D. C. that the U. S. government should import more customers to offset the slow growth of the population in the United States.  In Japan, the population is expected to drop from 120 million to 80 million, Schmidt said. “Most stock markets assume modest [population] growth  …     so how are you over a couple of decades to deal with the fact that one third of your customers [in Japan] are going to go away? Well, one [way] is produce more customers through immigration,” he said. Each year, roughly 4 million young Americans begin looking for jobs. But the federal government also imports roughly 1 million legal immigrants, plus roughly 700, 000 temporary   and     workers, and it does little to stop new illegal migrants, or to repatriate the resident population of roughly 11 million illegal migrants. The extra annual inflow of labor has helped keep Americans’ income flat for many years. The value of immigrants’   to companies is greatly boosted by   from American taxpayers. Thus   immigration reduces Americans’ income and increases their taxes, while also increasing companies’ profits and  .  Schmidt did acknowledge two other alternatives to   into the United States, saying his future   can be fixed by “more children  …     [or] you can export” to foreign customers. But “I’m one of these people who think we are better off having more immigration than less,” he said.  Schmidt, a close advisor to President Barack Obama, did not address immigration’s impact on federal   or on Americans’ wages or on American politics.  Schmidt also called for a greater inflow of   into U. S. workplaces via the controversial   visa program. In private, ”everyone [in Washington] actually agrees there ought to be more    …     everyone agrees, in both parties,” he declared. Currently, roughly 650, 000   foreign professionals are holding jobs in the United States, and are competing down wages for Americans’   professionals.  The owner of Fox News, Rupert Murdoch, also wants more immigrants to serve as customers and   workers, especially for   jobs where American professionals can still earn a good living. In a June 2014 article in the Wall Street Journal, Murdoch called for an unlimited inflow of foreign professionals. We need to do away with the cap on   visas, which is arbitrary and results in U. S. companies struggling to find the   workers they need to continue growing. We already know that most of the applications for these visas are for computer programmers and engineers, where there is a shortage of qualified American candidates.  In contrast, Trump has said migrants should be sent home, and he has also called for a reform of the   program that would reduce the inflow of foreign graduates by forcing companies to pay a   to foreign workers.  Raising the prevailing wage paid to   will force companies to give these coveted   jobs to the existing domestic pool of unemployed native and immigrant workers in the U. S. instead of flying in cheaper workers from overseas. This will improve the number of black, Hispanic and female workers in Silicon Valley who have been passed over in favor of the   program. One of the other YouTube personalities picked by Fox and Google is an Islamic advocate.  The   advocate, Nebela Noor, used a video to argue that Donald Trump, a New York   developer, is in agreement with Adolf Hitler, the   dictator of Germany who started World World 2, and killed roughly 50 million people, including 6 million Jews and roughly 25 million Russians. Read more about Noor here.  Follow Neil Munro on Twitter @neilmunrodc.