HOUSTON, Texas —   A “Houston Against Trump” protest is getting trolled by a hacker that keeps changing the time of the event. [Quite a few watching the cyber trolling are getting some laughs out of it. Organizers are trying to coordinate an event for Sunday, November 20, but now there is talk of taking the Facebook event down.  Someone keeps hacking the   event page for Houston  changing the time. They’re losing their minds. pic. twitter.   —   Ken Webster Jr (@ProducerKen) November 11, 2016,  The event is being organized on a Facebook page branded by the same name. The event organizers keep   the time for the event is 2 p. m. to 6 p. m. One organizer said the event was once changed to 1 a. m. David Michael Smith, who also shared Houston Socialist Movement’s post before the election, wrote in a post on the event page, “This FB Event page is under attack from Trump supporters, other   and even a few  . For technical reasons, not all of their posts can be deleted from this page. ” He added, “So Jeremy and I have decided to take down this page down [sic]. ” He urges, “The November 20 event is not being cancelled, of course. ” He assures, “We expect to have a large, spirited crowd and a wonderful action. ” Smith says “A new event page will be created by Houston Socialist Movement within a couple of hours. Please check it out and share it then. Thanks to all!” One social media troll responded to Smith’s post” “#tearsofalibertastegood #trump2016 #youneedacounselor?” Facebook event followers begged in comments, “Dont delete that’s what they want. Identify who they are and. Delete and block” Colby Jack commented, “Free speech works both ways. Don’t let the negative outweigh the positive. ” Another asked, “so we have to protest under the umbrella of socialism?” Another commented on the Facebook post, “In the end we are in texas, too many deer hunting rednecks outside the major cities. ” Cindy Marabito had a solution, she commented “Please send all your supporters to my page I HATE TRUMP! I can handle the haters!”   protests in Texas after the election failed to amass the numbers and violence of demonstrations in other cities, as reported by Breitbart Texas. It remains to be seen if those who said they were interested in going to the “Houston Against Trump” November 20 Facebook event (“3. 4K interested”) will actually bring out the 1. 3K that said they were going. Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2. Ken Webster, Jr. also contributed to this story. He is a talk radio producer  personality from Houston Tx.  He is the host of Pursuit of Happiness Radio weeknights on KPRC.  Follow him on Twitter:@ProducerKen, Like him on Faceboook: Ken Webster Jr  