(THE UNITED WEST) The United West investigative team uncovered a story so disturbing Field Sutton of Channel 9 news in Orlando, FL broke the story on their newscast.  The Husseini Islamic Center of Sanford, FL invited Sheikh Farrokh Sekaleshfar to speak at their Mosque. Dr. Sekaleshfar says the killing of homosexuals is the compassionate thing to do. In a 2013 speech Sheikh Sekaleshfar said this regarding gays, “Death is the sentence.  We know there’s nothing to be embarrassed about this, death is the sentence   …     We have to have that compassion for people, with homosexuals, it’s the same, out of compassion, let’s get rid of them now. ” When Sheikh Sekaleshfar calls for the death of all homosexuals based on the tenets of Islam it can not be ignored, he is an expert on Shariah Islamiyya or Islamic Law. Islamic Law also mandates a death sentence for blasphemers and apostates, does Sheikh Sekaleshfar and the Husseini Islamic Center Mosque advocate those legal rulings as well? Also disturbing to some was the response to this call for killing gays from Rev. Bryan Fulwider of the Interfaith Council of Central Florida. Rev. Fulwider said, “These issues around homosexuality and the decrying of it or denouncing of it by religion takes away, often, from our really important task of helping our community to be a better community   …     and wishes congregations would focus more on helping the homeless, poor  and abused instead of persecuting a group that can take care of itself. ” This tepid response from Rev. Fulwider is problematic because he refuses to denounce the Husseini Islamic Center Mosque for promoting a speaker who calls for the murder of homosexuals.  Rev. Fulwider can’t even say that calling for the murder of gays is wrong.  Fulwider concludes by adding insult to injury,  saying don’t worry about the gays they can take care of themselves. Equally as troubling is the leadership at the Husseini Islamic Center Mosque never condemn or disagree with the words spoken by their speaker about the killing of gays  —   silence is consent. Follow The United West on Twitter @TheUnitedWest