British TV personality Noel Edmonds has attracted the ire of establishment figures after expressing his frustration with Britain’s creaking transport infrastructure this morning. The former host of Noel Edmonds’ House Party, which introduced Britain to cult figures such as Mr. Blobby. [The Deal Or No Deal UK host vented on his verified Twitter account this morning: “Just tried to get somewhere. Allowed loads of time but abandoned journey. Am I alone in feeling Britain is full?”  Just tried to get somewhere. Allowed loads of time but abandoned journey. Am I alone in feeling Britain is full?  —   Noel Ernest Edmonds (@NoelEdmonds) January 13, 2016, His comments will bring to mind the frustrations of the UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage who was once widely condemned for suggesting that mass migration into Britain had resulted in longer car journeys  —   specifically with regards to the M4 motorway. While Mr. Farage’s comments after he was late for an event were made partly in jest, the topic of Britain being “full” is one that has attracted a considerable amount of support from    figures for over a decade. Britain’s population has skyrocketed in recent years, up from 58 million in the   to at least 65 million in 2013. The numbers are likely to be higher given that they do not take into account illegal immigration into the country. But Mr. Edmonds was met with derision from establishment figures, such as journalist at The Times newspaper Kaya Burgess, who seemed to suggest that Britain concrete over its countryside to deal with the unprecedented population growth: Yup, @NoelEdmonds is right. As these pictures show, we Brits are basically crammed in     …     pic. twitter.   —   Kaya Burgess (@kayaburgess) January 13, 2016, He took the responses from pro mass migration activists in his stride though, seemingly enjoying the attention, and presenting a reasonable response to his critics, including the Telegraph’s Comment Editor Luke McGee: It’s just an interesting thought isn’t it? Surely there’s a finite capacity for everything? https:  .   —   Noel Ernest Edmonds (@NoelEdmonds) January 13, 2016, And Mr. Edmonds indeed appeared not to be alone, with TV’s famous “Dragon” Duncan Bannatyne replying: “No you are not alone Noel”: No you are not alone Noel https:  .   —   Duncan Bannatyne (@DuncanBannatyne) January 13, 2016, Primary schools in Britain are “near breaking point” due to overpopulation and overcrowding. You can chime into the debate here.  