Joel Christie and Wills Robinson report in the Daily Mail:[The parents of a Maryland teenager have launched a lawsuit against their daughter’s public high school, claiming the district forced the    to take classes that promote Islam over Christianity and Judaism. John Wood, a former Marine, and his wife Melissa Wood, have filed a civil rights complaint against La Plata High School, alleging their daughter  —   identified only as C. W.  —   spent one day in a modern history class studying Christianity, followed by two weeks immersed in Islam. According to court documents obtained by The Daily Mail Online, the 11th grader ‘had to profess the Shahada by claiming ”There is no god but Allah and Muhammad is the messenger of Allah. ”’ ‘Such discriminatory treatment of Christianity is an unconstitutional promotion of one religion over another,’ President and Chief Counsel of the Thomas More Law Center Richard Thompson said. Thompson claims that, for   reciting such a statement is the equivalent of converting to Islam. He also said the school failed to clearly make known to students and their families that a study of Islam was to be part of the world history curriculum. Students were also required to memorize and recite the Five Pillars of Islam and were subjected to disparaging teachings about Christianity, the Woods claim. ‘The course also taught false statements such as Allah is the same God worshiped by Christians and Islam is a ”’religion of peace”,’ Thompson said in the filings. ‘A school cannot achieve diversity by punishing and alienating students who hold   beliefs, while bolstering the doctrines and teachings of other religions. ‘Parents must be ever vigilant to the Islamic indoctrination of their children under the guise of teaching history and multiculturalism. ‘This is happening in public schools across the country. And they must take action to stop it.’ Additionally, the suit claims that Mr Wood was banned from the school grounds after complaining about the curriculum. Read the rest here.