I went on my first Easter egg hunt a couple of years ago, hand in hand with my then    son, Max. I’ve got 44 years on him, but it was a first for both of us. In Jerusalem, where I grew up, the world of the Easter bunny, hot cross buns, roast lamb and simnel cake just did not exist for me. If someone had described an Easter egg hunt to me  —   “kids rush around collecting chocolate eggs that have been hidden by a rabbit”  —   I would have thought it strange. The concept of Easter was something distant, miles away from our own tradition of Pesach, or Passover. Without a doubt, though, our Seder in Israel would have seemed equally strange to the children tucking into their Easter lunch in Britain, where I live now. Why is a story  —   the Haggadah  —   told, and what does it mean? Why is the dining plate compartmentalized? What does one even do with lettuce leaves and radishes dipped in salty water? Most important, where’s the chocolate? The traditions of Easter and Passover seemed worlds apart to me until that    moment with Max. We had been invited by friends to have lunch on Easter Sunday. At the end of the meal came the unqualified highlight: the big hunt for the little coveted eggs. My moment of connection came as I was delving around in the compost heap at the end of the garden. As I uncovered a gold   egg with Max, my own childhood memories of finding the afikoman  —   hidden earlier in the evening, inevitably, behind the sofa  —   came flooding back. Back then we were hunting for half a matzo, but the thrill was the same and there it was. At both Easter and Passover, the meal is more than just food. It is the bridge between generations and the signifier of a story. At Easter, the simnel cake is decorated with 11 balls of marzipan to represent all the apostles minus Judas. The lamb represents Abraham’s sacrifice of his son, and Christ’s sacrifice of his own life. At Passover, flat matzo, rather than regular leavened bread, recalls how the Jews were forced to leave Egypt in such a hurry that there was no time to wait for their bread to rise. Bitter herbs stand for suffering. My own favorite as a child was my Italian grandmother’s haroseth. Hers was made of dates with a little bit of orange, dusted with cinnamon and dotted all over with long pine nuts, which made it look like a hedgehog. Tucking into a slice of simnel cake at that Easter lunch  —   as rich and dense with dried fruit and nuts as my grandmother’s hedgehog haroseth  —   was a powerful madeleine moment. Whichever traditions we might be putting into practice over Easter weekend, or the eight days of Passover, they’ll be serving two purposes. On the one hand, they are symbolic, providing a platform for all of us to connect with a shared story. On the other hand, these same traditions allow us to connect personally with the history we are making within our own family and circle of friends, last year and the year before that and the year before that, when the kids were very young. We haven’t yet done a proper Seder meal for our children in London.   though the celebration is, I know our boys would be in deep slumber well before any haroseth is spread over a piece of matzo. When we do, though, we will be seating the Easter bunny alongside the hedgehog. Such is my story and the story of my family: In order to live on, traditions need to be braided together to become something new. I offer two recipes to those baking, then, that are very different from each other. The casatiello is an Easter bread steeped in Neapolitan tradition. My grandmother may have been Italian, but she certainly wouldn’t have been baking with flour for her Seder meal, nor serving pork products (at any time of the year). Casatiello is made the day after the big Easter feast in Italy, when there is leftover meat and cheese. Heading out for an Easter Monday picnic is also something of a ritual in Naples, so again, this bread makes sense: All of the fillings, baked as they are into the dough, are safely tucked in and won’t fall out. Intended more for the Passover table, then, is the   walnut cake. The necessity for unleavened cakes is the mother of great invention in so many of my favorite cakes, ground nuts replace the typical flour. The tendency of these nuts to dry out then calls for a   drenching with a floral or citrus sugar syrup or, as here, a nutty liqueur like amaretto. The resulting cake is moist enough for the icing to be omitted (or replaced with a   substitute) for those wanting to serve the cake after the Seder meal. One of the great joys of baking is that the result always gets shared. That sharing is the essence of any celebration: coming together to honor traditions and, quite possibly, give rise to new ones. Recipes: Neapolitan Easter Bread (Casatiello) | Walnut Cake Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.