As controversy surrounding an old audio recording continues to swirl around Donald Trump, actor Jon Voight is calling on Republican voters to let the Republican presidential candidate know they are “completely behind him. ”[“Let Donald Trump know we are completely behind him, and may God give him the strength to continue his calling,” the Oscar winning actor tweeted Saturday night.  “I am calling for all Trump supporters to express their outrage and anger against De Niro and all of the Republican turncoats against Trump,” Voight said, apparently referencing actor Robert De Niro’s  attack on Trump in a celebrity voter registration PSA, in which he called the White House hopeful “blatantly stupid. ” “He’s a punk, he’s a dog, he’s a pig, he’s a con, he’s a bullsh*t artist, a mutt who doesn’t know what he’s talking about, doesn’t do his homework, doesn’t care, thinks he’s gaming society, doesn’t pay his taxes,” De Niro said, adding, “I’d like to punch him in the face. ” “If any Republican said words like Robert DeNiro used  —   against Hilary Clinton or Barack Obama? All hell would break loose,” Voight tweeted. Trump came under fire on Friday for, as he described it, “locker room“  jokes about women he made in a    conversation in 2005 with former Access Hollywood anchor Billy Bush. Voight’s “Republican turncoats” dig was apparently aimed at Trump supporters who have since disavowed the candidate, including conservative talk show host Hugh Hewitt, who has demanded Trump quit the race, and Arizona Senator John McCain, who withdrew his support for Trump. Other leading Republicans publicly condemning Trump include former Republican presidential candidates Mitt Romney, Jeb Bush, and Carly Fiorina, and former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. Actor and NBC’s The Apprentice host Arnold Schwarzenegger said “for the first time since I became a citizen in 1983, I will not vote for the Republican candidate for president. ” Joining Voight in showing steadfast support for the Republican candidate was actor and vocal Trump supporter Scott Baio. Reference the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi and Hillary Clinton’s email scandal, Baio tweeted, “locker room banter doesn’t compromise national security nor did it kill 4 Americans. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson