As Bernie Sanders vows to stay in the race until the last votes are cast, Donald Trump has taken the lead over Hillary Clinton in two national polls. Stay tuned to Breitbart News for live updates of the 2016 horse race.   —   All times eastern.  9:05:   Super PAC rehashing failed “ ” attacks from GOP primary: 9:00: Top Trump campaign staffers reportedly caught in screaming match on NY street, 8:35: Clinton slams Trump on Twitter: If you cite supporting torture and hosting pageants as foreign policy ”qualifications,” your definition needs work. https:  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 20, 2016,  7:34: Trump says the Border Patrol Agents told him they absolutely need the wall. As the crowd chants “build the wall,” Trump says he will build a wall so “if they ever get up,” they’ll wonder how they are going to get down. He also vows to rebuild our military because it is being decimated. He cites fighter jets going to junkyards. 7:24: Trump also vows to do well with   and Hispanics because he will bring back jobs and not make America the “stupid country. ” 7:17: Trump vows to win Michigan. “Watch what happens,” he says. 7:15: Trump says the   forces “gave up” after Indiana. He then talks about how he will make great trade deals. He says he saw places in New York and Pennsylvania that used to be “vibrant” and now you can buy shuttered factories for $2. He blasts Clinton for vowing to put miners out of business. 7:08: Trump rips Clinton for her “bad judgment” on her email scandal. Trump says it is an “absolute disgrace” that Clinton is allowed to run for president after her email scandal. 7:07: Trump says “you’re 100% wrong” if you don’t think the Egypt Air plane got “blown out of the sky. ” Trump doesn’t know if the country can ever recover if Clinton gets into the White House. 7:05: Trump says he would love to debate Clinton. And he agrees with Sanders that Clinton is not qualified to be president because of her bad judgment. He slams Clinton for using “radical Islamic terrorism. ” Trump suggests Clinton is not using the term because she is being nice to Obama and Trump wonders why the Clintons, who hated Obama, are being so nice to Obama now. ”Boy, do I look forward to debating Hillary,” Trump says at the top of his New Jersey rally.  https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) May 19, 2016,  7:01: Trump says Christie paid off his entire campaign debt tonight. 7:00: Slamming Hillary, Chris Christie, at a rally with Trump, says we don’t want someone in the White House who is more worried about being charged than the interests of the American people. 6:50: Rabid   at Trump rally: Watch: Protesters break through police barricade, rush toward   event as Trump helicopter arrives. pic. twitter.   —   Jacob Rascon (@Jacobnbc) May 19, 2016,  6:35: Speaker at Trump rally suggests sending   President Vicente Fox some soap: Speaker at Trump rally: Instead sending Carrier air conditioners to Mexico we should send soap to clean out Vincente Fox’s mouth,  —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) May 19, 2016,  6:25: Fox News Poll: Voters trust Trump over Clinton on economy (+12) terrorism (+12) telling the truth to the American people (+15) managing your tax dollars (+14) restoring trust in government (+8). More voters think Clinton is more corrupt than Trump (49% %). Majorities also believe Trump will build a wall, institute a temporary Muslim ban, and nominate a conservative to the Supreme Court. 5:50: Sanders campaign manager hoping super delegates do not “  the   count” and “take another look” at Sanders. “When they get to the convention,” Weaver continued, “nobody has the delegates to win with pledged delegates, it’s going to be the superdelegates who are going to have to decide this. ” [  …    ] “Now we can argue about the merits of having superdelegates,” Weaver continued, “but we do have them. And if their role is just to rubber stamp the   count then they really aren’t needed. They’re supposed to exercise independent judgement about who they think can lead the party forward to victory. ” Weaver added that superdelegates don’t vote until they actually go to the convention, and he considers their allegiances as movable as poll numbers. If by the convention Sanders has “substantial momentum” and has substantially “closed the gap” in pledged delegates, Weaver said, “I think there’s a strong argument to be made to superdelegates that they should take another look. ” 5:45: Trump slowly uniting Republicans, receives highest Gallup favorability rating among GOP voters to date: As a number of Republican Party leaders express dissatisfaction with Donald Trump being their party’s presumptive nominee,    Republicans have become more positive about the billionaire businessman. Over the last seven days, Trump’s favorable rating among Republicans and   independents has reached 66% the highest since Gallup began tracking him nine months ago. His unfavorable rating is at 30%. 5:41: Sanders: We expect voters in remaining primary states to disagree with Clinton’s assertion that she will be the Dem. nominee and the race is over. The latest from the @BernieSanders campaign on his off day in Palm Springs, CA. Reacting to Clinton comments today. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) May 19, 2016,  5:35: Scene outside of   fundraiser: Some protestors are chanting ”Dump Christie! Dump Trump!” outside the #DonaldTrump rally in Lawrenceville. pic. twitter.   —   Brent Johnson (@johnsb01) May 19, 2016,  People are beginning to file into #DonaldTrump’s rally in Lawrenceville. Many red Make America Great Again hats. pic. twitter.   —   Brent Johnson (@johnsb01) May 19, 2016,  Protestors across the street at #DonaldTrump’s rally in Lawrenceville. pic. twitter.   —   Brent Johnson (@johnsb01) May 19, 2016,  Wait chris Christie doesn’t get down with bears? pic. twitter.   —   john r stanton (@dcbigjohn) May 19, 2016,  #Trump = #Nazi at #Lawrenceville, NJ protest #Christie pic. twitter.   —   Chris Rieth (@riethc) May 19, 2016,  5:25: Trump campaign denies   BuzzFeed media credentials for event with Christie: Covering the   event from outside the gate: @dcbigjohn (Trump Camp doesn’t give @BuzzFeed credentials): pic. twitter.   —   Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) May 19, 2016,  5:01: More evidence of Trumps crossover appeal: United Auto Workers Union poll found 28% of its members support Trump. In recent polling, the UAW found about 28% of its members support Mr. Trump, who has taken a tough stance opposing the North American Free Trade Agreement and pushed for a tax on American companies moving factory work to Mexico. 4:45:   protesters outside   fundraiser: Happening now outside   fundraiser in NJ. pic. twitter.   —   Ali Vitali (@alivitali) May 19, 2016,  Flying over the   rally in Lawrenceville pic. twitter.   —   Dustin Racioppi (@dracioppi) May 19, 2016,  Flying over the venue for this   fundraiser in NJ: Sign saying MAKE NJ GREAT AGAIN: #DUMPCHRISTIETRUMP pic. twitter.   —   Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) May 19, 2016,  4:20: Interesting finding in YouGov poll: While 25% of Republicans say that they understand why someone would vote for Hillary Clinton, 30% of Democrats can understand why someone would vote for Donald Trump. Independents are more likely to understand a vote for Trump (49% to 39%) but slightly more likely to not understand a vote for Clinton (45% to 41%). A vote for #Trump more understandable to the other side than a vote for #Clinton https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   YouGovUS (@YouGovUS) May 19, 2016,  3:59: Dem. Senators warn Sanders that he may lose clout if he doesn’t rally behind Clinton, worried that the Nevada convention discord could spill into U. S. Senate and divide party. 3:51: Trump campaign: We’re “definitely going to be a lot more aggressive” attacking Clinton on every kind of attack. Miller says the campaign will ramp up its attacks because Clinton will be a “dangerous person to put in the White House. ” 3:50: Trump campaign’s Miller slams Clinton for wanting to put Bill in charge of the economy. He mentions that Clinton signed NAFTA that destroyed the middle class and allowed China into the WTO. He says the Clinton legacy is outsourcing and foreign wars. 3:45: On CNN, Stephen Miller, one of Trump’s top policy advisers, says he feels sorry for Sanders supporters because the party is on the verge of nominating the most   and   Street candidate in the party’s history. Miller says that’s not the right fit for the party or the country. Miller agrees with Sanders that Clinton is not qualified to be president. Miller cites Clinton’s judgment, citing her decision to go to war in Iraq and Libya policies that unleashed ISIS. He says Clinton wants to start wars in the Middle East and then admit refugees without knowing who they are. “That is a recipe for disaster,” he says. 3:35: Hillary even called a  : HILLARY THE ’ENABLER’? Women accuse Clinton of abetting Bill’s sexual affairs | https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) May 19, 2016,  2:45: Sanders super delegate continues to insists Nev. convention unfair to Sanders: Sanders superdelegate: Nevada convention was unfair https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Hill (@thehill) May 19, 2016,  2:35: Polish community furious at Clinton’s for Bill’s comments about Polish people wanting a “ ” dictatorship” because “democracy is too much trouble. ” Members of Polish community protest HRC’s fundraiser in IL, chant ”no more Clintons!” (bc of what WJC said this wk) pic. twitter.   —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) May 19, 2016,  2:23: Manafort (not Trump?) is now Trump’s chief strategist. Paul Manafort named Trump Campaign Chairman and Chief Strategist, Trump officials confirm.  —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 19, 2016,  2:20: Clinton press secretary very happy with her CNN interview: If this is not the best interview @HillaryClinton has done this cycle, it is damn close.  —   Brian Fallon (@brianefallon) May 19, 2016,  2:10: Clinton says most of what Trump says about America is “negative. ” 2:08: Clinton: I don’t feel compelled to defend my husband’s honor: When asked if Clinton ever feels compelled to defend the honor of her husband, Clinton says “no. ” She says she’s not going to be responding because that’s what Trump is fishing for. [Interesting answer: Americans don’t like candidates who won’t defend their significant other when   is attacked. There is no   that Trump would defend his wife’s honor.] 2:05: Cuomo says Trump has adopted the “go ugly” mentality without mentioning all of the mud Clinton’s allies will throw at Trump. She asked if Trump’s attacks will be more powerful if she ignores them like her fellow wonkish technocrat Jeb!. She says she is very confident that her “record of accomplishment” and “vision for the future” will counteract Trump’s attacks (a very   answer). She says if you pick a fight with a bully, you go down to their level as Cuomo does his best to frame Trump as a bully. Clinton insists she has “very thick skin. ” 2:02: When asked if she should reach out to Sanders to unify the party, Clinton again gives a roundabout answer. She says Sanders has to do his part. She punts when asked if she will make the first move in reaching out to Sanders. She refuses to answer whether Sanders is even on her short list of potential running mates. 2:00: Clinton is asked about the Nevada mayhem and she says she was very “disturbed” with what went on there and says she has “every confidence that we’re going to be unified. ” She says she won 9 out of the last 12 contests against Obama in 2008 and knows the “intense feelings that arise” as the nomination contest closes. 1:59: “I will be the nominee of my party,” Clinton says. “That is already done. ” 1:57: Clinton again focus on Trump’s proposed temporary Muslim ban and says he is now being a “recruiter” for more terrorists to join the terrorist cause. Clinton says she knows how hard the job of being president is and has concluded that Trump is not qualified. 1:56: “No, I do not,” Clinton says when Chris Cuomo asks if Trump is qualified to be president. Hillary Clinton: Donald Trump is not qualified to be president https:  .  https:  .   —   CNN (@CNN) May 19, 2016,  1:53: Clinton says Trump says a lot of things that are “provocative” that makes defeating terrorism more difficult. She uses the opportunity, as she did on Quora, to again slam Trump’s proposed temporary Muslim ban. Clinton says it is a sign of “disrespect. ” She says the “whole approach is incredibly provocative and  . ” 1:52: All of a sudden, Clinton seems concerned about terrorists coming back from Syria. She tells CNN’s Chris Cuomo that we have to “pay attention to” the “literally thousands of people who have left Europe” and went to Syria and or Iraq and are connected to ISIS. 1:49: Deval Patrick doesn’t seem enthusiastic about potentially being Clinton’s running mate: Fmr. Governor Deval Patrick seems uninterested in being Hillary Clinton’s VP: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   World News Tonight (@ABCWorldNews) May 19, 2016,  1:47: In an interview with CNN, Hillary Clinton says it does appear that the missing Egypt Air flight was an “act of terrorism. ” 1:40: Koch source denies reports the Koch brothers will finance a   candidate: ”Reports that we are supporting or considering supporting any 3rd party presidential candidate are false”  —   Koch source to @LACaldwellDC:  —   Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) May 19, 2016,  1:30: One of her many homes: Hillary Clinton headlines a big fundraiser in her hometown of Park Ridge, Illinois. Marquee reads: ”Welcome home” pic. twitter.   —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) May 19, 2016,  1:10: “Bernie or Bust. ” Clinton will have a tough time winning over Sanders supporters. Will the mainstream media gleefully highlight the disunity on the left like they did with the divisions on the right? Clinton’s numbers have gotten *bad* among Bernie Sanders supporters. 60% have an unfavorable view of her. https:  .   —   Nate Silver (@NateSilver538) May 19, 2016,  1:05: Trump’s Manafort meeting with Senate Republican chiefs of staff. 1:00: Bad Blood: Sanders’s top policy adviser donating to Wasserman Schultz’s opponent: The    of convenience btwn Sanders and the Dems is in trble, and he’s threatening to take the kids. https:  .   —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) May 19, 2016, 