A man from the San Antonio, Texas area was arrested over the Memorial Day weekend and charged with receiving child pornography. He told authorities that he had a   fetish. [FBI agents discovered soiled diapers when they raided the home of Vicente Rodriquez Hinojos III.  The     man gave the fetish explanation for why he had the dirty diapers in his home, reported the San Antonio  . Hinojos was charged with receiving child pornography after agents conducted an online investigation. The agents had received information from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.  The affidavit compiled by FBI agents stated that there were 159 photographic photos of two men sexually assaulting a toddler. The images were contained in a Dropbox folder. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children notified Dropbox to take the information down and the FBI began their investigation. The Dropbox account was traced to Hinojos. The man who is from Selma, a small city within the metropolitan area of San Antonio, admitted to trading child pornography. He would use his Dropbox account as well as chat programs and other services. He would download the photos into his Dropbox account whenever he received a new image. The FBI affidavit stated that the San Antonio area man viewed child pornography on two cell phones and a laptop. It was also reported that the affidavit stated Hinojos molested two children when they were 2 years old. Authorities said the abuse began in 2012, and in 2014, but was continuous. The affidavit was reported to state that he stopped abusing these children only recently. “The search team at the residence found numerous soiled diapers in Hinojos’ room,” the affidavit said. “Hinojos advised that he has a soiled diaper fetish and that the diapers found in his room belonged to him and were not associated with any child. ” Hinojos is being held without bond but is scheduled for a bail hearing according to the  . Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2