On Thursday’s broadcast of the Fox News Channel’s “On the Record,” while reacting to the attacks in Nice, France, presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump stated “when I come out with my   correct statements, that a lot of people love, and some people are so terrible, and then you have attacks like this and so many other attacks. ” And that “I would not allow people to come in from terrorist nations. I would do extreme vetting. I would call it extreme vetting, too. ”  Trump said, “[I]t sounds like here we go again. It’s going to be a whole different world. We’re living in a whole different world. There is no respect for law and order. There is no respect for anything or anybody. And this has to be dealt with very harshly. And, when I come out with my   correct statements, that a lot of people love, and some people are so terrible, and then you have attacks like this and so many other attacks. I mean, let’s see what happens with this one. It’s early to tell. But I would think that perhaps you’re not wrong the way you started this question. We have to get awfully tough and we have to get very, very smart and vigilant, and if we don’t, we’re just not going to have a society. We’re not going going to have a world anymore. This is crazy what’s going on. ” He added, “I’d be making it very, very hard for people to come into our country, for one thing, from terrorist areas. I would be so extreme in terms of documentation. We have people that  —   Hillary Clinton wants to allow 550% more than Obama, and Obama’s allowing a lot of people to come in. We have no idea. They are from Syria, maybe, but they have no paperwork many times. They don’t have documentation proper. I would make it  —   I would not allow people to come in from terrorist nations. I would do extreme vetting. I would call it extreme vetting, too. And, you know, our country has tremendous problems. We don’t need any more of the problems. Right now we have more investigations of this kind going on than we’ve ever had in the history of our country. And we’re going to allow thousands and tens of thousands of more people coming in. And then you see a situation like in Nice, France, it’s a horrible thing. And we better get awfully tough. ” Although, he later said, when asked about prospective VP pick Indiana Governor Mike Pence (R) saying he disagrees with a Muslim ban, “I’m not going to agree with anybody. ” Trump further stated, “We’re trying to be so nice. We’re trying to be so civil. We’re so weak. the world has got to strengthen up. And we have to be very tight with our borders. It’s now a different world, Greta. This isn’t 40 years ago and 80 years ago. This is a different world. We’re trying to be so politically correct, and we’re making such big mistakes. ” Trump added that if the attack is a radical Islamic attack, President Obama should “say it”s radical, if it is, and it may not be.   …      And then not let people into our country, Greta. ” He concluded, “Look, somebody said it, the other day, Trump is the law and order candidate. I’m the border candidate. I’m the great trade candidate, we’ll make great trade deals. But I am indeed the law and order candidate. And Hillary is weak and ineffective. She’s been  —   she created ISIS with her stupid policies. So, if this turns out to be yet another attack from radical Islam, then we’re going to have to take  —   our president is going to have to finally admit, and do something about it. ” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett