Liberal Democrats who care about American exceptionalism, Israel, the Middle East, and America’s role in the world will have a “problem” and those who champion such issues will always be in a state of conflict, declared Alan Dershowitz, a staunch Democrat and emeritus law professor at Harvard University. [Dershowitz was speaking in an interview on this reporter’s Sunday night talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and Philadelphia’s NewsTalk 990 AM,  The famed lawyer was asked for his opinion on the Obama administration’s abject refusal to use the term “radical Islam,” and its initial scrubbing of Omar Mateen’s declaration of loyalty to the Islamic State in the transcript of the Orlando terrorist shooter’s    phone call. “Well it’s completely wrong and I don’t support the administration on its approach to that issue,” Dershowitz replied. He continued: Look as a liberal Democrat, I have a problem. As all liberal Democrats do. We support the Obama administration on who he is going to put on the Supreme Court, on healthcare, on immigration, on a range of other issues. But we fundamentally disagree with him on his approach to foreign policy, particularly in regard to the Middle East. You know, if you are a staunch Republican supporter of Israel, you have no problem.  If you are a staunch Democrat who doesn’t care about Israel, you have no problem. But if you are a liberal Democrat who cares deeply about Israel, the Middle East, world peace, American exceptionalism, America’s role in the world, you have a problem. Dershowitz stated he believes Hillary Clinton will be better on those issues then President Obama has been. “But,” he asserted, “you know, anybody who has my views on domestic and foreign policies will always be in a state of conflict. And my job is to make sure the Democratic Party remains committed to Israel remains committed to a   solution remains committed to Israel’s right to defend itself and remains committed to a muscular foreign policy. ” Regarding Clinton, Dershowitz added, “I think Hillary Clinton is in favor of a muscular foreign policy, slightly more than Obama was. So I’m comfortable voting for her. I have never been 100 percent comfortable voting for any candidate for president. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.