Australian pop star Iggy Azalea blasted Beyoncé’s “Becky’s with the good hair” lyric, from her album, Lemonade, as a racist attack on white women. [Azalea is no stranger to controversy. She is constantly taunted by black rappers and derided by music industry critics for lacking the lyrical flair of her contemporaries. So it was no surprise when the    singer, with the assistance of some of her six million Twitter followers, called out Beyoncé for using the racially “stereotypical name” “Becky. ”  @iggys_bitch dont ever call me a becky.  —   IGGY AZALEA (@IGGYAZALEA) April 25, 2016,  @phagmob @iggys_bitch it was used as a play on brain and brian. you would not be down if i started calling all black men ”deshawns”  —   IGGY AZALEA (@IGGYAZALEA) April 25, 2016,  @phagmob generalizing ANY race by calling them one sterotypical name for said race. i personally dont think is very cool, the end.  —   IGGY AZALEA (@IGGYAZALEA) April 25, 2016,  Azalea goes on to note that she is a fan of Beyoncé and her Lemonade album, but does not appreciate being negatively generalized because she looks a certain way. @phagmob @iggys_bitch and by the way, this is not bey shade. i love her and the album. but my name is iggy, and you will all call me that.  —   IGGY AZALEA (@IGGYAZALEA) April 25, 2016,  @rNicaRo the whole becky thing ”give me that becky” comes from white womens supposed love for blow jobs. so excuse me but, i dont want,  —   IGGY AZALEA (@IGGYAZALEA) April 26, 2016,  Indeed, perhaps the most famous Becky is the   white women prominently featured in Sir    Lot’s “Baby Got Back” music video. However, a quick Urban Dictionary search of the name “Becky” reveals the sordid usage of the name that has Iggy Azalea protesting its use by Beyoncé. One definition of “Becky” refers to white women, as Azalea notes above, giving fellatio. Coincidentally enough, Iggy Azalea uses the name “Becky” in her 2012 song I Think She Ready. But the singer maintains, currently, at least, that Beyoncé’s use of that name in this context disparages white women. What’s more, Beyoncé’s Lemonade lyrics about “Becky with the good hair” are meant to explain the singer’s feelings about her unfaithful husband  . “Sources said ‘Becky’ is a composite of women Jay Z was rumored to have had liaisons with earlier in their relationship,” the New York Post reports. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson