Welcome to the Dangerous Faggot Tour! I am JUDGE MILO, the most fabulous supreme justice on the Internet.[  Friends and foes simply call me MILO  —   and that’s not because they can’t pronounce my last name. It’s because I’m famous. Liberals are afraid to say many hard last names, because if they say it wrong it’s racist, and if they say it correctly it’s cultural appropriation. But I’m a European, so they don’t have any of those problems with me. Today is Yom Kippur, the Jewish day of atonement. Jews everywhere are apologizing for their sins. I’m blessed to only be   because God doesn’t have time to listen to my full list. I was raised as a Catholic, of course. To be honest I only mentioned Yom Kippur to make the faggots on Stormfront froth at the mouth. They love to hate me! I’m convinced Stormfront is a creation of the CIA, you know. It’s too hilarious to be written by real white supremacists. I’m having a great tour of the south, although I’m starting to wonder if country music is a Clinton plot to have me commit suicide. Sorry, that shit just doesn’t travel outside the US. I’m having huge turnouts and massive viewership of my talks on YouTube. I think some of the viewers watch to see if I will crash and burn. It’s the reason southerners watch NASCAR but also Hillary Clinton speeches. But I’m sorry to disappoint, I’m having a ton of fun on tour and everything is going great. I’m staying healthy, safe and happy. I even have my own security detail. Unlike Hillary’s, none of them are seizure doctors in disguise. Anyway. Let’s grab the subject at hand right by the pussy. We are officially less than thirty days out from the presidential election. We’ve already seen over the weekend how the Clinton Campaign along with their unofficial campaign wing, the Republican Party, have tried to smear daddy. The tape they released didn’t affect the polls in any meaningful way. The only people shocked that Donald Trump talks like a blue collar guy were apparently his fellow Republicans, who rushed to cover the ears of their wife’s boyfriend’s children. A lot of you are on edge. You’re asking yourself, “what’s next?” What will the next tape hold? And what kind of damage will it do? We have to be realistic: there probably are more tapes of Daddy. He worked in TV for many years, and let’s face it, Daddy likes to banter! For some Trump supporters, especially young people who haven’t experienced many dirty elections, this is a shaky time. Our candidate has an unholy coalition against him. The Clintons and their smear machine, the mainstream media, Silicon Valley, and the Republican establishment are all out to stop Trump. We now know from Wikileaks that The New York Times gave Bill Clinton interview questions in advance. The same paper employs Maggie Haberman, formerly of Politico, who was described by Clinton staffers as a “friendly journalist” who has “teed up” stories for them in the past and “never disappointed. ” And the Washington Post was giving friendly   to Clinton people when their name was going to appear in a story. In other words: the American media are corrupt, mendacious idiots and they deserve to burn. You cannot trust anything they write! On Trump’s side we have the   and the basket of deplorables, the dissident media like Breitbart, the few Bernie Bros smart enough to realize that their socialist idol sold them out for a $600, 000 house and the use of an airplane and of course me, the dangerous faggot. So my goal here tonight is to pull us all back together, and focus on the single most important issue of this election. The Supreme Court. That is: keeping the supreme court out of the ugly,   and tyrannical clutches of Hillary Clinton and the enemies of America, both foreign and domestic, that have bought her presidency lock, stock and barrel. I’m sure some of you are protesting right now. “But we need a wall! Paid for by Mexico!” or “We need tax reform, so companies like Apple don’t keep 160 billion dollars offshore!” or “We need to fix trade with CHINA” Those are all important issues, and Trump has energized the country and turned out massive crowds who support them. But the supreme court is a much more pressing matter that will affect this country for decades. Even if you’re uncomfortable with some of Trump’s other policies, his rhetoric, and even his comments on the female reproductive system, this issue is the one that trumps all the others. If Hillary is elected, she could appoint up to four new supreme court justices. Any   conservative who recognizes this, and still won’t vote for Trump   …     Well, I don’t think we can call them conservatives, can we? These beltway conservatives don’t care about America. They care about their jobs, their influence, and everything else that comes with establishment power. Trump poses an existential threat to their cosy status quo, and that’s why they oppose him. They don’t care about the supreme court. They don’t care about conservatism. They only care about themselves. And here’s what they want for the supreme court. Here they are folks, the Supreme court, the most powerful people in America. That’s Ruth   having a nap during the state of the union, such a dear! I hope it was a pleasant one  —   perhaps she was dreaming about an   America where the second amendment never existed. Speaking of the second amendment   …     TRIGGER WARNING! I’m going to talk for a second about the founding fathers for a second. The founders of this country never believed it would be ruled by nannies in black robes. The Federalist Papers, which were written to explain the constitution, call the judicial branch the “least dangerous” branch of government. Alexander Hamilton in Federalist 78 wrote “The judiciary has no influence over either the sword or the purse no direction either of the strength or of the wealth of the society and can take no active resolution whatever. It may truly be said to have neither FORCE nor WILL, but merely judgment. ” Hamilton imagines that judges will be objective, that they will be rational, exercising reasonable judgment on what the words of the Constitution and laws mean. It’s a world away from what leftist activist judges want the Supreme Court to be. You don’t hear anything about “relativism” and “diversity,” which claim to be the mothers of social peace and loving kindness, but in our day mean ramming boys on college campuses into kangaroo courts where they’re presumed guilty if a girl screams “rape!” or a black person screams “racist!” And you don’t hear anything from Hamilton about twisting Title IX into a club with which to beat down boys’ wrestling teams or break down the door to the girls’ locker room for grown men in dresses. Of course not every judge or government official has exercised objective, unbiased judgment. But at least the West aspires to that noble goal. But the Left, especially the lesbianic feminist Left, stomps up and down with its sensible shoes on the idea that the goal of unbiased judges is to be ruled by the law, not the latest social justice fad. As far as I’m concerned, if the goal is to have good judges with clear judgment, the first question should be “Are you, or have you ever been, a feminist?” Alas, Hamilton’s writings in the Federalist papers don’t reflect the reality of the court today, or any time in recent memory. The supreme court we know today is best described by the dearly departed Justice Antonin Scalia, who said: “This practice of constitutional revision by an unelected commit tee of nine, always accompanied by extrav agant praise of liberty, robs the People of the most im portant liberty they asserted in the Declaration of Independence and won in the Revolution of 1776: the freedom to govern themselves. ” Scalia was a national treasure, and one of my favorite American political figures along with Reagan and of course now Daddy. He was an originalist, which means he believed the constitution said what it says, and does not go out of its way to address the petty whims of trannies, homos, bronies, and whatever other special interest group is trending on Twitter this week. As Scalia himself said, “It’s not up to the courts to invent new minorities that get special protections”. It’s like he’s my spirit animal! Of course Scalia wasn’t a dangerous faggot  —   he had 9 kids and was a much better Catholic than I could ever be. Justice Scalia was a great man, and his loss will be sorely felt by America for a long time. Scalia’s quote about the unelected committee of nine brings me to a central message:The Left seeks power at all times. It despises you. It despises the idea that you should be left alone to be responsible for your own lives, something that the constitution and the Supreme Court was designed to protect. The Left has contempt for the old Western ideas that we should all play by the same rules. To Hell with your    lies about “the rules,” the Left says. Social progress is more important! And to achieve social progress, they have to control what you can do, what you can say, and what you can think. Pesky constitutions only get in the way. They also, of course, want to control what you can shoot. So they’re going to toss aside the original, plain meaning of the Constitution and impose whatever they feel like on you. And don’t complain if it’s one policy today and a contradictory policy tomorrow, or if there’s one policy for one of their favored victim groups and a completely different policy for one of their despised groups. Logic and fairness can’t stand in the way of progress. Reason and consistency don’t mean a thing to the Left. They’ll yell at you to stop oppressing them with your logic even while their boots are grinding into your face. Justice Sonia Sotomayor famously said “”I would hope that a wise Latina woman with the richness of her experiences would, more often than not, reach a better conclusion. ” That is what we can look forward to if Hillary is elected. Wacky,   identity politics in the highest court of the land. The supreme court has had a conservative advantage since Nixon appointed 4 justices to the court. I’m really warming to Nixon, whom my friend Roger Stone deeply admires. He set up a long running conservative court, and frankly, Watergate doesn’t make a blip on the radar compared to the crimes of the Clintons. The reason the supreme court is the central issue of this election is that the next president is likely to select quite a few justices  —   probably four, and perhaps even more than that. And that will shape the court for decades, just like it did for Nixon. There are currently 8 justices, and they often deadlock   on cases, which means the lower court ruling stands and no precedent is set. The 4 liberals on the court are predictably almost always in lockstep. The conservatives, being more independent, don’t all vote together. Justice Kennedy, like Hillary Clinton, swings both ways, and has voted with the liberals a number of times. But the thing about the supreme court is that it is OLD. Older than the average age of a Fox News viewer, if you can believe that. See what I mean? [SLIDE] Ruth   83Anthony Kennedy 80Stephen Breyer 78Clarence Thomas 68Samuel Alito 66Sonia Sotomayor 62John Roberts 61Elena Kagan 56, The average retirement age for a supreme court justice is about 79. By that metric Ruth   Anthony Kennedy, and Stephen Breyer are likely to leave the court over the next few years. Clarence Thomas could leave the court too, and anything is possible for the others. No matter how you slice it, the next president will probably choose four supreme court justices  —   maybe at a minimum. If Clinton is elected, we could be looking at a    or even a    leftist majority on the supreme court. It’s terrifying. But there is an alternative. [SLIDE: SAVIOR DONALD TRUMP] Donald Trump has released a list of the supreme court nominees he would put forward. And just like everything else Trump has built, it’s awesome. They are solid judges and other defenders of the constitution. Hillary, ever the paragon of transparency and openness, has not put out such a list. Who would be on it? Obama? Not likely, they don’t really get along. Bill Clinton? Well, poor Ruth is a little older than he generally prefers. It’s hard to be specific about names. But we do know that her picks will come from the regressive left. Militant feminist   and Black Lives Matter racists. [SLIDE: Hillary Clinton in Front of Burning Court] Hillary Clinton’s court would trample over the constitution and your rights. Let’s talk about some of the key ways this would happen. Because if you think forcing schools to allow grown men into little girl’s bathrooms is bad, you ain’t seen nothing yet. Since Halloween is coming soon I thought I’d sketch out some even scarier scenarios for you. First Amendment, Your first amendment rights will be curtailed by a Clinton court. This will happen in a few ways: First, the   “fairness doctrine. ” Political speech will have to be fair, as defined by liberals. Expect conservative talk radio to include liberal counterprogramming. Of course, Clinton appointees in the FCC or some other branch of the government will be the ones who decide what’s fair or not. So it’s   conservative media. Perhaps the biggest change will be in the realm of   hate speech. Remember when the supreme court considered Obscenity and pornography, Justice Potter Stewart famously said “I know it when I see it”. Well the left, as we know, sees hate speech, racism, and sexism EVERYWHERE. Expect a leftist supreme court to give such a broad definition of hate speech that even the United Nations will be jealous. Next, religious freedoms. Any hope of religious groups to be free will be snuffed out by a liberal court. They will be required to comply with federal programs like Obamacare. They will have to marry whatever tranny orgy stumbles into the chapel at 3AM. And make pizza for them too. In short, every religion will suffer under this court. Except of course for Islam, which the left bends over backwards to pander to, and this court will be no exception. Second Amendment, The second amendment is a liberal’s most hated part of the constitution and bill of rights, which says a lot because they despise the whole document. This liberal court will strive to weaken the second amendment with the eventual goal of removing it all together. Expect previous,   decisions to be overturned, and the federal government and liberal state governments to work closely to hamper gun ownership. The second amendment is what safeguards the first amendment, so liberals have to get rid of it one way or another. Fourth AmendmentThe fourth amendment protects you from illegal search and seizure. Under a liberal court, this amendment is toast. As affirmative consent laws show, leftists want to be inside bedrooms as well as boardrooms these days. Under a president that doesn’t think twice about spying on his own citizens, do you really think private property will be a concern? Fifth AmendmentThe fifth amendment protects you from incriminating yourself. Plenty of Clinton folks have taken the fifth, like her IT guy. The identity politics of the court will come into play with the fifth amendment. You don’t have to incriminate yourself when your guilt is presumed  —   for example you are a white male at college charged with sexual assault. Don’t forget the government will be invasively searching and seizing  …    . So what does it matter if you plead the fifth when they have your computer records? Any changes to the fourth or fifth amendment won’t affect Hillary Clinton or her pals. As we’ve learned in this election, there’s one set of laws for Hillary and her cronies, and another for the rest of America. Sixth Amendment, The sixth amendment promises a speedy and fair trial. So not at all like the Title IX hearings you have on campus. But the campus justice system is what liberals would like to see throughout the nation. A system based on feelings and fighting systemic oppression instead of due process. It is scary to imagine gulags of political prisoners who aren’t even aware of what they are charged with. It may seem farfetched, but you are a fool if you don’t think it could happen here, as it has happened in so many places around the world. Ninth  Tenth Amendment, The Ninth  Tenth amendments preserve freedoms for the states and the citizens of the United States. Does that sound compatible with the liberal vision of America? Globalism requires strong federal powers, so states can’t do pesky things like protect religious freedom. The South has a keener understanding of the importance of State’s rights than any other area of the country. It goes without saying that anything that gives the federal government more power is a huge negative for basically anyone sane. The GOP establishment, and especially the NEVER TRUMP movement, believes that Hillary could be elected and America will be in good shape. They believe congress can fight her legislation, and defend America’s values via votes. This is the Congress that couldn’t defund Obamacare. But even if that were the case, the real threat of a Hillary Clinton White House is her supreme court picks, which will affect America for decades to come. It is an open and shut case. There is no way anyone can argue that Hillary will not make 4 or more supreme court choices if elected, turning the Supreme Court into a leftist playground for generations. America as you know it will be gone, replaced by just another declining western nation, no better, stronger or freer than Germany or France. So beyond all of Trump’s policies, which you may or may not favor, and beyond his personality, which you may find obnoxious, consider the court. Donald Trump has put his list of potential nominees together, and they will be good justices who will not erode the rights of American citizens. So if you’re wondering how to persuade your friends, family and parents, that’s the way to go. It doesn’t matter what kind of language Donald Trump used ten years ago or even what shows up in new Wikileaks dumps. The future of your country is at stake  —   and with it, the rest of the world. I urge you as a European to do the right thing, stay strong, and stay free. Thank you. Based on prepared remarks.