The victim of a brutal mob in Chicago is explaining how he was caught up in Democrats’ anger over their huge defeat on election day. [“What’s happening to America?” said David Wilcox, as he showed his wounds inflicted by the mob. “You’re supposed to be able to vote in peace! It’s supposed to be part of our democracy. And what happened is, I vote for somebody, and I get beaten, robbed, and my car stolen, and I have no way of getting my wife to and from work safe anymore,” he told the Chicago Tribune’s news crew.  The attack came as Democrats lashed out at Americans for their surprise defeat on Nov. 8. For example, retiring Nevada Democratic Sen. Harry Reid said Friday that Trump has “emboldened the forces of hate and bigotry” and “has directed crowds of thousands to intimidate reporters and assault  . ” Wilcox, 49, said the shocking attack happened after a black Sedan scraped the side of his vehicle on Wednesday. “What’s your reaction as you watch this?” a Chicago Tribune reporter asks Wilcox as he’s shown the   video of the attack. “I was scared,” Wilcox said. “The car pulled up next to me. We   each other. But they hit my car,” he continued. “I put the car in park. The light was red. I got out of the car. ” That’s when Wilcox says he was targeted for the violent beating and carjacking. “One of the guys, an African American at the bus stop, said: ‘Yeah, that’s one of those white boy Trump supporters,’” he said. “And I said: ‘What does that have to do with this accident? I just want to exchange insurance. ’” “Next thing I know, the guy said, ‘Don’t worry about it, we’re gonna beat his ass!’ And then punches were thrown, and the next thing I know, I have five people on me. And I fell to the ground I was kicked in the head. They were in my car, stealing all my stuff,” he said. “I tried to go to the car. I got hit some more. I tried to get into a defensive stance to ward off them off a little bit, hold them back, and then another guy said, ‘Get the car! Get the car! ’” Wilcox continued. “And then when he started up the car, my driver’s window and my childproof back window was open, and I put my arm around it. The guy took off —  he took off and he was doing 70 or 80 [miles per hour] down Roosevelt [Road] swerving. ” “He was trying to get me to fall off, and I knew if I somehow let go, I was gonna die. ” Wilcox said. When the car slowed, Wilcox let go, and rolled into oncoming traffic several times. He was stunned that he was profiled and targeted for what the mob assumed was his private decision in the voting booth. “It’s a predominantly African American neighborhood,” he continued. They started yelling things like, ‘Oh, there’s one of those Trump white boys.’ And then, I did make a comment and say, ‘What does that have to do with it? So what if I support Trump?’  You know, he might not speak perfect —  I didn’t say that to them, but he might not speak perfectly politically correct, but he’s the best man for the job. He’s the one that’s going to bring back jobs, the trade, get the people that are here illegally out, bring back jobs for people that deserve the jobs that have been there their whole lives, that might not have a full education and can’t get a job. Breitbart News has previously reported how the press has portrayed Trump and his supporters as racist, sexist, Islamaphobic, a demagogue, Hitler, subconsciously Hitler, and not Hitler but Mussolini. Meanwhile, even conservative sites attack his working class white supporters, saying “deserve to die,”  and “deserve to be beaten. ” The press scoffed at the countless death threats made at Trump, gave generous airtime to   assassins, in one instance calling an illegal alien who stole a cop’s gun to take a shot at Trump “a good guy with a gun. ” Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton denigrated Trump’s supporters on the campaign trail, calling one half of them “racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic, you name it,” who belong in what she calls “the basket of deplorables. ” Some of his American supporters are “irredeemable” and “not America,” she added.  