President Barack Obama joined Jerry Seinfeld on his hit web series Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee on Wednesday. [“This is a sweet car” Obama says of Jerry’s 1963 Corvette Stingray on the first episode of the show’s seventh season.  “I thought: the coolest car, American made, for the coolest guy ever to hold this office,” says Seinfeld. “You are winning a lot of points with me right now,” Obama responds. After Seinfeld is denied permission to take the president out for coffee by the Secret Service, the two instead drive around the south lawn of the White House for a few moments. After the Seinfeld star comments that most children grow up loving the president, Obama says he does “really well” with the     demographic. “Yeah, they love me,” he says. “Partly because they think my ears are big, and so I look a little like a cartoon character. ” Later, the president shows Seinfeld the presidential limousine, which he refers to as “the Beast. ” “It’s a Caddy, basically on a tank frame,” he says. From inside the limo, Obama says, “I could call a nuclear submarine right here from this  …     It’s a cool feature. ” “I always wanted to be in a show about nothing and here I am,” Obama tells Seinfeld, referencing the comedian’s smash NBC hit sitcom. “There’s nothing more nothing than this,” Seinfeld says. “Nothing. ” The president also longs for the days when his “anonymity” was still intact. After describing himself as a “cool president,” he shares his thoughts on President Teddy Roosevelt, who he feels was a “cool character. ” “Teddy Roosevelt would go up to Yellowstone Park for, like, a month, and nobody knew where he was. Nobody could get in touch with him. Could you imagine that?” he says. Later, Seinfeld asks how many of the world’s leaders are completely “out of their minds?” “A pretty sizable percentage,” Obama says. The Crackle series features Seinfeld driving around different cities and stopping to pick up other comedians for coffee and conversation. On Monday of this week, before Obama’s appearance on Seinfeld’s show, comedian David Spade criticized the president and First Lady Michelle Obama for their   appearances on reality and talk shows. “A President should have a little more dignity,” Spade said of Obama’s recent appearance on NBC’s Running Wild with Bear Grylls. “He’s on GQ? I’m like, ‘Leave that to Bradley Cooper.’ You’re above all of us, you’re above the stars, above everything,” Spade said. “When he’s trying to get in the mix like, ‘I want to present at the MTV Awards,’ it’s like, ‘Alright guy, relax. ’” Watch the full segment of Obama’s coffee run with Seinfeld here. The White House Twitter account also shared an excerpt of the episode: . @JerrySeinfeld ✓@POTUS ✓1963 Corvette Stingray ✓And a cup of coffee ✓Here’s what happened next. https:  .   —   The White House (@WhiteHouse) December 31, 2015, 