A humanities course at the University of Colorado, Colorado Springs, asks students to reconsider the way that they think about their country by arguing that the Founding Fathers were ‘terrorists’ and that wealthy CEOs should be in prison. [A report by The College Fix revealed that two professors at a public Colorado university are indoctrinating students with a heavy dose of Marxist revisionism. The course, which is entitled “Resistance and Revolution,” is   by two professors, history lecturer Jared Benson and sociology instructor Nicholas Lee, who collaborated together on the course. In the course, Benson and Lee argue that ideals upon which America was founded were “merely a fabrication for a social movement. ”   Lee argues that they participated in tarring and feathering in effigy, thus qualifying them as a “terrorist organization. ” Despite their claims, there is little to no evidence that the Founding Fathers participated in such activities. “They were an organization of guys that went out and did stuff, tarring and feathering in effigy, and sometimes it wasn’t in effigy,” Lee said. “As Jared pointed out, by any modern definition, they were a terrorist organization. I don’t say that to be hyperbolic, literally an organization that uses terror to accomplish what they want, that’s exactly what they were doing, right? So all these people who were our Founding Fathers —  well it’s all relative at the time —  were using violence and terror. ” Because only the wealthy were affected by taxes, Benson and Lee argue that the Revolutionary War had very little to do with freedom. Rather, they believe that the rich manipulated the downtrodden into fighting the war for them, exclusively to the benefit of those at the top. “Wealthy colonists needed to work to manufacture discontent,” Lee said. “They used slave rhetoric when the great hypocrisy was that they themselves owned slaves. ” “The wealthy led the colonists to believe they were suffering as a result of the British even though the quality of living was actually very high in the colonies for the people at the time —  higher than London for the average person. ” Benson provided a   comparison between Thomas Paine and Donald Trump, arguing that Paine’s famous work, Common Sense, used fear and hatred to rile up the masses. “He caters to the lowest common denominator —  people who are scared —  scared of things that are different —  of different stories, of different narratives. This should sound very similar in 2016. Appeal to the masses by giving them people to fear and hate. ” The two scholars frequently brought Marxist and socialist themes into the course. Lee argued for the end of extreme corporate profits by pondering why “corporation’s profits [aren’t] being reduced in an equivalent amount [instead of increasing the cost of goods]?” Lee also argues that wealthy CEOs should be put into “moral prisons” for failing to to uphold their “human responsibility. ” Tom Ciccotta is a libertarian who writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com