GOP frontrunner Donald Trump is going after Sen. Ted Cruz, calling the Texan “an absolute disgusting liar” during his town hall in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina on Monday afternoon. [“He’s taken so much money from so many different people,” Trump alleged of Cruz, saying he’s “totally controlled” by special interests and lobbyists. “Bush, the same thing,” Trump said, referencing former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and then Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) “Rubio, the same thing. ”  “They will be totally controlled,” Trump declared. “Ted Cruz is the most dishonest guy I think I’ve ever met in politics,” Trump said, responding to recent attacks by Cruz that Trump is   while Trump vows he is  . Trump also said Cruz has attacked him on health care, but that Trump has vowed to repeal and replace Obamacare. “The Second Amendment is my whole thing,” Trump added, saying Cruz alleged that he didn’t support the Second Amendment. Trump also stated that Cruz is an “unstable person” and “nuts. ” “He’s a really bad liar. It’s something I hope you’re going to watch out for,” Trump warned voters. “They lie, lie, lie then they apologize,” Trump said of politicians, adding that he wants to get his response out to the inaccurate attacks. “If Iowa had any guts  —   the people from the Republican party,” Trump challenged, “They should disqualify him” from winning the Iowa caucus over the controversy with Dr. Ben Carson. “We have to give the power back to Christianity,” Trump said when talking about religious freedom. He said he wants to remove the threat that churches would lose tax exempt status if religious leaders spoke out on political issues, saying he could “do that easily. ” “I think it’s very important,” he declared. UPDATE: In a news release, Trump warns about Ted Cruz: “One of the ways I can fight back is to bring a lawsuit against him relative to the fact that he was born in Canada and therefore cannot be President. If he doesn’t take down his false ads and retract his lies, I will do so immediately. ”