An illegal alien with multiple criminal charges including murder and illegal   was captured in New Mexico after illegally   the U. S.[U. S. Border Patrol agents working near Columbus, New Mexico, were alerted to the presence of possible illegal aliens in their patrol area. After responding to the alert, the agents picked up the trail of four people, information obtained by Breitbart Texas from U. S. Customs and Border Protection revealed.  The agents followed the trail and eventually caught up with the four individuals. The men admitted to having crossed the border illegally, the statement confirmed, and were taken into custody. The four illegal aliens were taken to the Deming, New Mexico, Border Patrol Station where they were processed. A background check uncovered that one of the men, Arturo Solano Ramos, a Mexican national, had a long and violent criminal history. Ramos’ charges included a 1st Degree Murder in Albuquerque from 1989, possession of cocaine and marijuana, transporting illegal aliens, and multiple counts of   after Deportation. After the discovery of his extensive criminal history, Ramos was transported to the Luna County Detention Center where he is expected to, yet again, face charges of illegal  . Cases like this continue to illustrate how our nation’s open border policies continue to put American lives at risk by allowing violent criminals, sex offenders and child molesters to   the country at will after being deported. Just last week, in Houston, Texas, a previously deported illegal alien allegedly killed a teenage girl and critically injured her date while they were returning home from their high school prom, Breitbart Texas reported. The driver was allegedly fleeing from police who believed he was driving drunk at the time. Edin   27, is a Guatemalan citizen who was deported from the U. S. in 2013. Breitbart Texas appears to be the only major news outlet to report the alleged assailant’s status as a previously deported illegal alien. In April, another previously deported illegal alien crashed his van   into a vehicle being driven by an East Texas fire captain, Breitbart Texas’ Lana Shadwick reported. Captain Peter Hacking and two of his seven children were killed in the crash. KRLD reporter L. P. Phillips first reported the illegal status of Margarito Quintero who had been deported in 2008. Another illegal alien who had been deported multiple times because of his violent criminal history is now ready to stand trial for the alleged murders of five American citizens in Kansas and Missouri, Breitbart Texas also reported. Breitbart has reported extensively on the crimes committed by previously deported illegal aliens. American citizens are not the only victims of our nation’s open border policy. On Wednesday, Breitbart Texas reported on the deaths of three illegal immigrants who were being smuggled around a Border Patrol checkpoint in South Texas, 80 miles north of the   border. Human smuggling coyotes will regularly abandon their customers in this dangerous area when they become injured or too weak to keep up with the group. Heat and lack of water eventually lead to the victims death. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.