On “Fox News Sunday,” Republican presidential   Donald Trump explained all of the things that were fair game if Democratic presidential   Hillary Clinton made charges of sexism, most of which were about how Clinton handled her husband Bill Clinton’s indiscretions while she was first lady.  Trump said, “You’re talking about many. I mean, if you read the book, the book has other ones that were really horrible. You have one being  —   accusing him of rape, and other things. Hey, look, he was impeached. He lost his law license, couldn’t practice law. He had to pay a massive fine or a massive amount of money to  —   whether it’s Paula Jones, or whoever. And this was all done in the White House. A lot of this was done in the White House. Not a good situation. Now, had she not mentioned about penchant for sexism, to me, penchant  —   I have a penchant for sexism. I have more respect for women than Hillary Clinton has. I have more respect than Hillary Clinton, OK? I will take care of this country far better than Hillary. So, I thought it was appropriate. I mean, to be honest, I thought it was appropriate. He’s campaigning for the wife. She said I had a penchant for sexism, which I don’t. But, that’s what she said. She made the statement. ” Host Chris Wallace went on to say there are some questioning Trump’s strategy and that it could backfire, to which Trump added that she wasn’t a victim, but an enabler. Exchange as follows: WALLACE: Now, a lot of Republican officials, including a lot of Republican women say that’s going to backfire. That, you’re going to make her more popular. Once again, she’s the victim, that it’s going to turn a lot of  …     TRUMP: No, no. She’s not a victim. She was an enabler  —   she, WALLACE: She was an enabler? TRUMP: She worked  —   yes, she worked with him. I mean, she was  —   some of the women have been totally destroyed. Some of these women have been destroyed, and Hillary worked with him. I mean, there’s no  —   there’s no feeling sorry for Hillary in this situation. And, all you have to do is look at some of the facts, and look at some of the settlements. There’s no feeling sorry for her. Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN