Donald Trump’s latest sex accuser has launched her own online store to sell adult videos, toys, and sexual equipment. She announced the opening of the store one day before going public with her Trump allegations. [Jessica Drake, an adult film actress, appeared with feminist attorney Gloria Allred Saturday at a press conference, alleging that Trump tried to sleep with her after allegedly touching her. Variety reported:  She said that she met Trump ten years ago at a golf tournament in Lake Tahoe, Calif. She said Trump invited her to his suite after the tournament, and she went with some women friends. When they arrived, she said, he grabbed each of them tightly and kissed them. After they left him, one of his representatives called to invite her to his room alone, but she said she declined. Then Trump himself called and asked, “What do you want? How much?” After she declined his invite, he eventually offered her $10, 000, she said. Drake said that she “may be called a liar or opportunist,” but her motives are pure. She offered a photograph of herself, clothed, beside Trump, at the golf event in question as evidence that she met him. But Drake is launching her own online sex store, according to a press release Friday, one day before her press conference with Allred. According to the   release on xbiz. com: LOS ANGELES  —   Wicked Pictures contract performer and adult star jessica drake is launching the official online store for her instructional series “jessica drake’s Guide to Wicked Sex” and “ ” sexual wellness tools. The new store located at GuideToWickedSex. empirestores.  will give visitors the opportunity to collect the entire   series which is written, produced, directed and hosted by the acclaimed performer and sexual wellness expert, as well as products which reflect “jessica’s core values, are jessica tested, and jessica approved. ” “I am thrilled to create a   shop for everything about ‘Guide to Wicked Sex,’ including all of the amazing products that will enhance your sex life and bring you and your partner closer together,” drake said. “We have your favorite jessica drake videos, toys, novelties, and, thanks to Wicked Sensual Care, we have an amazing variety of products, including luxurious vegan,   lubes, creams and lotions for him and her!”  …       …    Fans will also have a chance to peruse drake’s adult films such as the futuristic sex drama“DNA,” directed by Brad Armstrong, starring drake and Asa Akira. Other titles include“Aftermath,”“Wanted,” and “Underworld,” among others. Visitors to the store will also be able to purchase a variety of sex toys, such as wands, vibrators, dildos, butt plugs, sex sleeves as well as items such as   cuffs and restraints, sex position pillows and more. Drake was interviewed about orgasm and other topics at the 2014 AVN adult film awards, where she has received many nominations and has won the Best Actress category in the past. “I’ve done fellatio positions, anal, uh,   female ejaculation, female masturbation, anal play for men,   . And I’ve done them based on questions and feedback that I’ve gotten from women and couples during the seminars that I’m giving,” Drake said on the topic of her Guide To Wicked Sex series of educational DVD’s, an anthology of her sexual expertise. “It’s an incredible thing,” she said of the Real Doll that has been created and sold in her likeness. “It’s very flattering for me to know that somebody wants me bad enough that they are actually going to get a whole me shipped to them all over the world. I mean, there are people with Jessicas all over the world. ” Drake noted that she keeps in email contact with the customers of her Real Doll, and sends them care packages. According to AVN. com: On Jan. 13, 2007, her career reached yet another pinnacle of success, as she supplemented her duties as the host of the 2007 AVN Awards by taking home trophies for Best Actress  —   Film (for Armstrong’s Manhunters) and Best   Sex Scene (for FUCK). Her 2008 AVN Nominations included Best Actress for Raven’s Delilah, Best Supporting Actress for Love Always (for which she also penned the screenplay) and three sex scene noms for her work in The Craving. According to the Trump campaign, “This story is totally false and ridiculous. The picture is one of thousands taken out of respect for people asking to have their picture taken with Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump does not know this person, does not remember this person and would have no interest in ever knowing her. This is just another attempt by the Clinton campaign to defame a candidate who just today is number one in three different polls. Anyone who would pay thugs to incite violence at a rally against American citizens, as was released on video, will stop at nothing. Just another example of the Clinton campaign trying to rig the election. ”