Democrats are “absolutely freaking out” about losing Michigan as blue collar workers defect to vote Trump on Election Day, according to Donald Trump’s senior communications adviser Jason Miller. [“Here’s where we’re playing offense big league, as Mr. Trump would say it: Michigan. Mr. Trump has been in Michigan today. He’s in Michigan tomorrow,” Miller tells SiriusXM host Matthew Boyle.  “Matt, if you and I were talking two weeks ago, or a month ago, or a month ago  …     If one of us said Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, and President Obama would all be in Michigan the day before the election, the other person would have said, you’re nuts. You’re absolutely insane. But that is the reality. Bill, Hillary, Obama, and I’m sure all sorts of other cast of characters will be in Michigan” on Monday, Miller said. “Because they’re absolutely freaking out. ” “We believe we’re going to win Michigan,” Miller continued. “All the energy is there. The Democrats are going to have to spend more money on TV, so they’re clearly freaking out. That’s where I think Mr. Trump can win. ” Miller added that the Trump campaign will be making stops in Pennsylvania even into Election Day. “Pennsylvania, we’re in striking distance. Virginia, we’re in striking distance. Same thing with Wisconsin, and even Minnesota. And the one other state I’d say is in play —  we’re probably right about tied right now —  but that’s New Mexico,” he said. “The reason you’re seeing these blue states come online is because as voters are dialing in with Election Day approaching, they see this economic change message. We see all these states that have been so   by the loss of American manufacturing jobs. Where voters are saying: We want to go in a different direction, and the Clintons having abandoned any sort of pretext of positive messaging, have no response to the fact that they were the ones behind all of those terrible trade deals that sent away American jobs,” Miller continued. “So we’re feeling very good about the race. There are a lot of new pathways, and even the most hardened of media skeptics who are out there have to acknowledge now, Trump’s got a real shot,” he said. Breitbart News Sunday airs from 7 PM to 10 PM EST every Sunday on SiriusXM Patriot 125. LISTEN:  