Retailer Macy’s is confirming to corporate watchdog 2ndVote that it is no longer donating to Planned Parenthood. [In October, Breitbart News reported that Macy’s was one of 37 companies that 2ndVote found were direct donors to the abortion chain.  2ndVote reports: You may remember how four companies (ATT,   Ford, and Xerox) publicly distanced themselves from Planned Parenthood last year after our research exposed   companies with direct financial ties to the abortion giant. At that time, another company on our list, Macy’s, was making donations to Planned Parenthood. However, Macy’s confirmed with 2ndVote last week that the company no longer gives and no longer matches donations to Planned Parenthood. You can see the updated Macy’s scorepage here. We wanted to share this great news with you because the credit is due to our 2ndVote members who have engaged these companies for their position on the Life issue. It’s because of your decisions and conversations with these companies that the funnels of corporate dollars to liberal organizations are starting to close. The group called Macy’s decision to halt donations to Planned Parenthood “another Miracle on 34th Street,” a reference to the iconic Christmas movie in which a young attorney wins his case of proving the New York City Macy’s department store Santa is the real Santa Claus. ForAmerica, a conservative   group that has encouraged its nine   social media audience to boycott corporations that fund Planned Parenthood, has supported 2nd Vote’s campaign. “It is a Christmas miracle indeed to see one less corporate donor to the abortion mill that is Planned Parenthood,” said ForAmerica president David Bozell in a statement about the successful campaign. “This is a great victory for the   grassroots movement and the millions of innocent babies at risk of being lost to abortion. ” “Congratulations to 2ndVote, an organization keeping the grassroots informed on causes that corporations support, and   activists across the country who voted with their wallet to ultimately persuade Macy’s to end their donations,” Bozell added. “Now the time has come for the Federal Government to follow suit. If Macy’s can turn off their funding for Planned Parenthood, so can Uncle Sam. ” Planned Parenthood receives more than a half   dollars annually. The abortion chain has been under congressional investigation for the past year following the release of videos that alleged Planned Parenthood harvests the body parts of babies aborted in its clinics and sells them for a profit. 2ndVote’s scorepage on Macy’s observes the retailer does put its support behind other progressive causes. The store chain, for example, has a score of 100 on the Corporate Equality Index of the Human Rights Campaign (HRC)  —   which is the major supporter of gay rights and   marriage in the country. Macy’s is an HRC corporate partner. It notes that Macy’s, Inc. operates Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s with 840 stores in 45 states plus the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and Dubai.