On Friday, the Kardashian sisters —  Kim, Kourtney, and Khloe —  met with family members of gun violence victims at an event organized by Moms Demand Action and Everytown for Gun Safety, both funded by Michael Bloomberg. [According to The Hollywood Gossip, Kim commented on the meeting, saying, “Having lunch with the families of loved ones who were killed by gun violence. I learned a lot from listening to their stories. ” She added, “Life is so precious! What will it take for this to stop?” She also gave a   to “Everytown” and “Moms Demand. ”  On July 1, 2015, Breitbart News reported that Kim admitted she was “not really a gun person,” but she pushed for more gun control nonetheless. Her push came in the wake of the attack on Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. She argued that the U. S. needs “stricter legislation to prevent mass shootings,” although the alleged gunman behind that incident, Dylan Roof, passed a background check to acquire his firearm. On August 12, 2015, Gossip Cop reported that Kim, who was still not “a gun person,” pushed gun control again. This time, she was responding to the actions of David Conley, who reportedly confessed to killing his   and her children in Houston, including one child of his own. The New York Daily News reported that Conley “allegedly killed the children and [his  ’s] husband while [his  ] was still alive, handcuffed to the bed. ” Conley’s criminal record was extensive. It included “aggravated assault” and claims that he held a knife to the throat of one girlfriend and allegedly assaulted another. The Daily Mail reported that he “was sentenced to five years in prison for retaliation. ” But instead of focusing on the need to keep dangerous people like Conley out of society, Kim responded to his heinous actions by calling for more gun control for   citizens. Moms Demand Action called Kim “tough” for calling for more gun control. Following the June 12, 2016, terror attack in Orlando, Kim once again called for added gun control, tweeting: Under current federal law people on terror watch lists can legally buy guns  —   this is called the Terror Gap,  —   Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) June 12, 2016,  What Kim ignored is the fact that gunman Omar Mateen was not on a terror watch list, so the new gun controls she pushed would not have prevented him from acquiring a firearm. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.