Donald Trump has launched a social media campaign to help supporters keep the media honest for the next presidential debate with the hashtag #BigLeagueTruth, where supporters can act as a quick response team to debunk false accusations by the Clinton campaign or the moderators and the media. [Supporters can go to the #BigLeagueTruth Team website and sign up to receive and   messages from the Trump campaign to counter the   narrative of both the media and the Clinton campaign.  “We cannot count on the rigged MSM to bring the truth to the American people,” the message at the website informs visitors. “I need you to help me speak directly to the   Americans who want to take our country back,” it continues. “Join the Big League Truth Team and help fact check Crooked Hillary LIVE during the debates,” the message concludes. Breitbart spoke to a campaign digital staffer with knowledge of the operation, and he noted that #BigLeagueTruth was a great success with its maiden run during the vice presidential debate. “It is obvious that we can’t rely on the media to tell the truth, so we have recruited over 30, 000 Americans, now, to basically be our own press secretaries to get the truth out,” the staffer told Breitbart News. “We have a system where we text and email our supporters in real time during the debates and they can tweet it or share it on Facebook or otherwise forward it to their contacts and friends. That way we can go around the biased media and get the truth directly to the voters. “With our maiden run on this during the vice presidential debate we saw a 360 percent lift on the tweets we sent out versus the ones we sent out during the first presidential debate before we had started the program. So, basically 20 million people saw the tweets we sent out during the VP debate. So far it has been a great success,” the staffer concluded. Trump supporters who would like to join the effort can go to the #BigLeagueTruth Team website and sign up for free in order to help Trump get the truth out ahead of the upcoming presidential debate. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.