While the recent floods have brought death and devastation to my beloved home state of Louisiana, predictably the Democrat powers that be are playing politics. [One would think that even the Democrats would find little to criticize about Donald Trump helping to unload an   of supplies to bring some   relief to the people of Louisiana. You would hope that the Democrats would abandon partisan gamesmanship for just a few days in the interest of the people.  Unfortunately, I know the Democrats better than that. You see, for most of my life I was a Democrat. Like many of my brothers and sisters, I bought into the lie that the Democrats were the party that cared about the lives of black people. A few years ago, I could no longer turn a blind eye to the results of the Democrat’s decades of failure. I could no longer pretend not to see what the Democrats had done to the people, to the state and to our great nation. I had an awakening about the real threat that the Democrats like Hillary Clinton pose to this country. I realized it was time for me to step up. In this sense, I view Donald Trump as something of a kindred spirit. I announced I was switching parties, and I became the first black Republican State Senator in the great state of Louisiana since Reconstruction. I have not looked back since. Despite the protestations of Louisiana’s Democrat Governor John Bel Edwards, Donald Trump’s actions helping the people of Louisiana were entirely appropriate. The citizens who warmly greeted Donald Trump and Mike Pence certainly knew help when they saw it. Trump and Pence brought both supplies and a   focus to America’s largest natural disaster in the past few years. But long after the floodwaters here recede, Louisiana’s other problems will remain. I believe Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence will provide help there, as well. Louisiana needs good, quality jobs. This is true for all its citizens, and especially true for the black community that the Democrats have left out of the American dream. Mr. Trump has shown that he understands the hopelessness and despair that affect people who can’t find honest work. He understands that a sense of genuine pride and   goes    with productivity. Mr. Trump properly wants to unite the United States. And the Democrats like Gov. Edwards and Hillary Clinton? They just want what they’ve always wanted: dependency, despair and ultimately, destruction. It’s for those who have simply voted Democrat in the past to have their own awakening. The insanity of voting the same way over and over again simply has failed. I would like to invite Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence to return to Louisiana soon. I would ask them to bring their solutions and to bring the good news about the greatness of America with them. Louisiana has shown time and again that we can weather great adversity. We have suffered through more than our share of catastrophes, racial division, and government corruption. I believe Mr. Trump has shown he wants to make Louisiana great again. Many of my fellow citizens are ready to chip in and do their part. Listen to Elbert Guillory on Breitbart News Sunday, SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125: 