Welcome to Breitbart News’s daily live updates of the 2016 horse race. [It’s moving day today, especially for Republicans, as the South Carolina primary will reshuffle the GOP field (polls close at 7 pm EST). Democrats caucus in Nevada (doors open at 2 pm EST) in what is essentially a very early rubber match in the early series of nominating contests.    —   8:43: Sen. Ted Cruz aims at Donald Trump. Ted Cruz: Trump Sees Me as ’Only Real Threat’ https:  .   —   David Brody (@TheBrodyFile) February 22, 2016,  8. 14: Donald Trump does some gloating. ”@mikeliberation: This is the best reaction shot I’ve ever seen lol #Trump2016” pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 21, 2016,  7. 50 Sen. Marco Rubio is described as a boy by his friends. Rubio super PAC compares him to Harry Potter https:  .  | AP Photo pic. twitter.   —   POLITICO (@politico) February 22, 2016,  7. 00: Donald Trump’s Atlanta rally. THANK YOU Atlanta, Georgia! Leaving for Nevada now. Lets MAKE AMERICA SAFE AND GREAT AGAIN! https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 22, 2016,  2. 00: Sen. Marco Rubio in Arkansas. Pic sent from #TeamMarco vol @austinmharrison at the Little Rock event. #Marcomentum is alive and well in Arkansas! pic. twitter.   —   Jordan Russell (@jlrussell31) February 22, 2016,  10:34: As it gets later at night,   media reveal inconvenient truths. CNN’s Van Jones says that “people of color” have been telling him that they support Trump, so he says the media should not dismiss Trump’s chances of winning over some minorities. Flashback:  Jamelle Bouie: ‘Not a Bad Play’ for Trump to Court Black Voters with  . S. Worker Immigration Plan, 10:28: New York Post on Trump: Tomorrow’s front page on Trump’s yuuge South Carolina win https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   New York Post (@nypost) February 21, 2016,  10:25: Trump Tweets: What a great night. Thank you South Carolina, a special place with truly amazing people! LOVE,  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 21, 2016,  10:23: Ben Carson: Carson statement for the ages! he ”received as many delegates in South Carolina as all other candidates but the winner”  —   Jonathan Martin (@jmartNYT) February 21, 2016,  10:20: Newsweek’s Matthew Cooper: ‘Trump has no lane. He’s a Hummer doing 90. weaving in and out of traffic. He is dominating all elements of the GOP demographic coalition not just those who are angry’: Donald Trump’s victory in the South Carolina primary demonstrated his strength among Republican voters of all stripes and even helped force Jeb Bush, once considered the likely frontrunner in the GOP presidential contest, to suspend his campaign —  a sign of how the real estate mogul has upended politics. Despite his   with Pope Francis, the state’s governor endorsing his rival and the appearance in the state of George W. Bush to help his brother, Trump won big in South Carolina. According to exit polls, he carried veterans and older voters, virtually tied Ted Cruz for the evangelical vote and dominated among voters with no college, some college and college degrees. He won moderates and conservatives. His only weaknesses were among   “very conservative” voters, the more affluent and voters with graduate degrees. None of this means that Trump is unstoppable. But he’s also won secular New Hampshire, where less than a quarter of the state’s Republican primary voters were evangelical. (In South Carolina, it’s 69 percent.) He came in second in the Iowa Caucuses. The southern states that dominate the March 1 and March 15 primary dates also seem like very fertile ground for the real estate mogul. “Let’s put this thing away,” said a very competant Trump as he declared victory and looked forward to the upcoming contests. [  …    ] It’s become cliche in the presidential campaign to talk about candidates having different lanes —  an outsider lane, an establishmient lane, etc. But Trump has no lane. He’s a Hummer doing 90. weaving in and out of traffic. He is dominating all elements of the GOP demographic coalition not just those who are angry. At this point here is no certainty, as Washington insisders had once hoped, that as the field narrowed Trump would be stopped either because voters somehow came to their senses or because the party would coalesce around a less controversial alternative. But that seems less likely. The thinning field has actually strengthened Trump and while it’s possible that in a    race Cruz or Rubio could beat Trump but so far, with the exception of one outlier poll, the evidence suggests that Trump could beat them. 10:15: Kasich thinks it’s a   race: Kasich: once there were 8 governors running for President and now there is only one.  —   Heather Haddon (@heatherhaddon) February 21, 2016,  10:12: Eric Cantor, ladies and gentlemen: Proud to be a @JebBush supporter  …     he’s a great American.  —   Eric Cantor (@EricCantor) February 21, 2016,  10:10: Record turnout in South Carolina: Now more than 711, 000 votes counted with 97% in. Outside   window SC GOP chair set earlier this week,  —   Greg Giroux (@greggiroux) February 21, 2016,  SC GOP primary turnout record, as expected: 638, 850 votes counted so far per AP (91% precincts in) vs previous high of 603, 770 in 2012,  —   Greg Giroux (@greggiroux) February 21, 2016,  10:05: Brownstein on South Carolina exit polls: In exits in IA, NH, SC, opposite problems 4 @SenTedCruz  @marcorubio vs @realDonaldTrump :  Cruz coalition too narrow, Rubio’s too shallow,  —   Ronald Brownstein (@RonBrownstein) February 21, 2016,  10:01: Wonder if they are proud of him, arguably this cycle’s biggest loser. Have no worries, the mainstream media will continue to let him give advice and not realize it is like having Andre Drummond and DeAndre Jordan instruct basketball players how to make free throws: Very proud of Jeb Bush and what he stood for. Proud to fight his corner, proud of our @r2rusa staff and all their hard work.  —   mike murphy (@murphymike) February 21, 2016,  9:58: Interesting: Big Q: Does @georgepbush now endorse @tedcruz, whom he once called the future of the GOP? #txlege,  —   Evan Smith (@evanasmith) February 21, 2016,  9:54: Erick Erickson praises Van Jones for calling Donald Trump “classless”: Amen, @VanJones68. Amen. https:  .   —   Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) February 21, 2016,  9:52: Especially when the   establishment thought his candidacy was a joke and were praying for “close”   win so they could write that Trump underperformed expectations: Trump winning by   more significant than outcome of   photo finish for 2nd,  —   John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) February 21, 2016,  9:50: She’s right [Tony Lee: As I’ve always said, Trump can win the primary by winging it but he can’t beat the    media machine (of which    York Times are a part] by winging it in the general election when the klieg lights get brighter and brighter and when the media scrutinize every movement, utterance. It’s the same scenario Palin would have faced had she run]: Here’s the next challenge should Trump win TX   Fla  —   someone trying to convince him he needs a   campaign,  —   Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) February 21, 2016,  9:40: Cruz, who worked in George W. Bush’s administration and wanted to be a bigger part of the Bush administration, praises Jeb! for not going into the gutter. He praises Bush for his “remarkable campaign. ” Cruz thanks his South Carolina team. Cruz says “we are effectively tied for second place” [Tony Lee: decimal points matter —  ask Hillary Clinton after Iowa 2008] but the has defied expectations each time. He says the Washington Cartel is terrified that the conservative grassroots is rising up. Cruz asks for a moment of silence of Justice Antonin Scalia. He says “Washington power brokers” will not decide Scalia’s appointment. “It will be decided be We the People. ” Cruz says he is the only campaign that has beaten and can beat Donald Trump. “That’s why Donald relentlessly attacks us and ignores the other candidates,” Cruz says. 9:35: Ted congratulates Jeb!: I congratulate @JebBush on a   campaign and wish him and his wonderful family all the best. https:  .   —   Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) February 21, 2016,  9:32: AP writer repeats talking point that GOP establishment is peddling (see how this works? ): . @realDonaldTrump wins, but so far 67% of the #SCPrimary vote was against him. Will the #GOP rally around one alternative? Time will tell.  —   Meg Kinnard (@MegKinnardAP) February 21, 2016,  9:30: Lame establishment talking points: 80% voted against Rubio. 80% voted against Cruz. 92% voted against Bush. Keep in mind: 67% of South Carolina GOP primary voters cast ballots against Trump.  —   Matt Mackowiak (@MattMackowiak) February 21, 2016,  9:15: Rubio trying to look optimistic with his 2nd or 3rd place finish even after his advisers touted that he would win South Carolina. He congratulates Messrs. Bush and Trump. He praises Jeb! as the “greatest governor in the history of Florida. ” Rubio says the “children of the Reagan revolution are ready to assume the mantle of leadership. ” He says they are ready to do for the next generation “what Ronald Reagan did to us. ” Rubio talks about 21st century conservatism and and talks up Sen. Tim Scott’s story, Haley’s story, and his story. Rubio says conservatives will fight for single moms, fathers who work two jobs to give kids opportunities they never had, high school students who go to schools across towns to better their lots in life. “We will fight for you because we come from where you are now, we live the way you are living now,” Rubio says. He says the race “practically speaking” is down to three men and asks people to join his campaign because he gives the GOP the best chance to unite the party and the country. Rubio says he will always remember South Carolina as the place of “new beginnings” and “fresh start. ” [Rubio’s speech would have been a lot better had he won South Carolina like his advisers had predicted and with all of the major endorsements that he received. It seems like he is trying too hard to look like a “winner” and the speech seems like it would be better as a   act at the convention given that he hasn’t won a state yet.] 9:05: Trump: “let’s put this thing away. ” 9:02: We love our military and “We love our police. They’re not being treated properly. ” Trump says we are going to build our military so big, so powerful that “nobody is going to mess with us, folks. ” Trump says we’ll get the equipment that the general needs and not want lawmakers in Congress who are controlled by special interests tell them that they need. Trump says he is   his campaign. Trump says we’re going to take care of our vets. Crowd chants “USA! USA! USA!” after Trump says his supporters make up an “incredible movement. ” Trump says “Make America Great Again” is maybe the “greatest of all time. ” [Tony Lee: Trump is getting better with his   speeches but it has to be better, tighter. For what it’s worth, though, this is only Trump’s third   speech ever. So it is a work in progress.] 9:00: Coulter fired up: TRUMP: ”We’re going to do the wall.  And who’s going to pay for the wall?”  MEXICO! !!!! !!  —   Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 21, 2016,  8:59: Rubio supporters cheer Jeb! ’s suspension of his campaign: Raucous cheers at Marco Rubio headquarters after Jeb Bush announces he is suspending his campaign.  —   Cassie Cope (@cassielcope) February 21, 2016,  Raucous cheers at Marco Rubio headquarters after Jeb Bush announces he is suspending his campaign.  —   Cassie Cope (@cassielcope) February 21, 2016,  8:52: Trump begins by thanking the people of South Carolina. He says the Palmetto State is a “special state. ” Trump thanks his family. He says there is a hospital ready just in case she goes in labor. Trump thanks Henry McMaster for backing him earlier in the process. He says he will take him over Gov. Haley anytime because “we won. ” Melania congratulates South Carolina and says Trump will be the “best president. ” Ivanka says Trump is an “incredibly hard worker” and “together we’ll make America Great Again. ” Trump says  he will get the support of a lot of the other candidates as they drop out. Trump says there is nothing easy running for president —  tough, nasty.. but “beautiful” when you win. “We’re going to start winning for our country,” he says. Trump says America doesn’t win on trade. Crowd yells that Mexico is going to pay for the wall. “They love me, I love them,” Trump says of Hispanics. 8:51: Trump takes the stage with his family. Crowd chanting “USA! USA! USA!” 8:50: Boos for   at Trump’s victory party: A big ’boo’ from @realDonaldTrump crowd for @GrahamBlog and @JebBush. @wis10 #Decision2016 #sctweets #scprimary pic. twitter.   —   Chad K. Mills (@ChadKMills) February 21, 2016,  8:45: Chuck Todd (Mike Murphy is arguably one of the biggest losers in this election cycle): The underwritten story of the night: the end of the Bush dynasty.  —   Chuck Todd (@chucktodd) February 21, 2016,  8:40: CNN report: Jeb Bush to suspend his campaign: Jeb! tells supporters that the presidency is bigger than any one person. He says he is proud of the campaign he has run to unify the country. But he says that the people of Iowa, New Hampshire, and South Carolina have spoken and he respect their decision. Jeb gets choked up and says “and tonight, I am suspending my campaign. ” Jeb congratulates his competitors who are “remaining on the island. ” . @realDonaldTrump supporters ROAR with cheers  applause as @JebBush says: ”Tonight I am suspending my campaign.”  —   Jeremy Diamond (@JDiamond1) February 21, 2016,  Tears in the room as Bush speaks,  —   Ed O’Keefe (@edatpost) February 21, 2016,  8:39: Google Trends: Trump was most searched on Google in South Carolina: How @Google searches broke down for the #SouthCarolina candidates todayhttps:  .  pic. twitter.   —   GoogleTrends (@GoogleTrends) February 21, 2016,  8:35: Ben Carson tells supporters he’s not dropping out. 8:33: Trump has the broadest support: In #SCPrimary @SenTedCruz draws just 13%   after 18% IA, 8% NH. Not much better than Santorum ’12: 11 SC, 14 IA, 6 NH,  —   Ronald Brownstein (@RonBrownstein) February 21, 2016,  8:30: GOP establishment working hard to spin mainstream media reporters  …     more are not buying their   guzzling the establishment’s  : If Trump beats Cruz in Texas and Rubio in Florida, where is all this stopping happening?  —   Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) February 21, 2016,  The general denial I’m still getting from GOP elites about the strong position Trump is in to be their nominee is pretty amazing,  —   Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) February 21, 2016,  8:28: Republicans caucus in Nevada on Tuesday: . @RalstonReports now on MSNBC: Data he has seen, both public and private, indicate a 25% to 30% lead for Trump in Nevada. Vote is Tuesday.  —   Taniel (@Taniel) February 21, 2016,  8:25: Good news for Cruz: Our models seem to give Cruz the edge in the fight for second place  https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Nate Cohn (@Nate_Cohn) February 21, 2016,  8:22: Potentially a monster night: At this rate, Donald Trump is likely to win *ALL 50* of South Carolina’s GOP delegates.  —   Dave Wasserman (@Redistrict) February 21, 2016,  8:19: Not good for Cruz: CNN reports that @marcorubio has won Greenville, home of Bob Jones University, which was supposed to go big for @tedcruz.  —   Jamie Johnson (@JamieJohnsonUSA) February 21, 2016,  8:10: Coulter asks  …     Has anyone in U. S. history ever had the financial support, party support,  media support  —    lost 1st three states as Marco Rubio has?  —   Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 21, 2016,  8:05: Kasich has moved ahead of Jeb! into fourth despite barely having campaigned in the State. His staff also did a good job lowering his expectations in the Palmetto State. (Bush back in fourth) 8:03: CNN’s John King: Republican voters in South Carolina said tonight that “we’ve moved on from the Bush family. ” 8:00: No TV at Jeb! ’s campaign: No TV on at Jeb Bush campaign, don’t think I’ve ever seen that on Election NIght gathering.  —   Beth Reinhard (@bethreinhard) February 21, 2016,  7:55: Tony Lee: The   establishment not coronating Trump after tonight actually benefits him —  he can play the    card all the way to the convention. The argument that 60% of voters are not for Trump also does not carry that much water  …     pundits never say, for instance, that 80% of the voters are against Rubio. It will be interesting to see if the    media on the right hold Rubio’s campaign to account for setting their    marker. Rubio didn’t get 2nd in New Hampshire. And he did not win South Carolina.   winners don’t appear on Wheaties boxes. 7:52: Matt Drudge: Bring On Trump v. Hillary: Clinton vs. Trump is the race America deserves.  EPIC. WILD. NASTY. FUN.  #SCPrimary,  —   MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) February 21, 2016,  7:48: Entrance polls may have been wrong about Sanders’s support among Latinos: Contrary to entrance polls, @HillaryClinton won #latino precincts by more than 20% #NVDemsCaucus pic. twitter.   —   Andres Ramirez (@andresramirezlv) February 20, 2016,  7:45: Politico profiles the “Stump for Trump” sisters: 7:40: On CNN, Dana Bash says we have to all pause and just accept the reality that Donald Trump convincingly won South Carolina. She seems flabbergasted like the rest of the   establishment (The Washington Post‘s resident dunce Jennifer Rubin doubted that Trump would get  % in the polls after his announcement speech in which Trump made illegal immigration the centerpiece of his campaign. ). Give CNN’s David Chalian some credit for not   the GOP establishment   that his GOP establishment sources try to force him to guzzle. He says that Trump is best positioned to win the GOP nomination and people need to come to grips with that. 7:37: Fox News spinning hard for establishment favorite Rubio: FOX now trying to praise Rubio as outsider candidate!   …      —   Mickey Kaus (@kausmickey) February 21, 2016,  7:35: Trump 34, Cruz 21, Rubio 21. 3% reporting. 7:30: From Fox News: BREAKING NEWS: Fox News projects @realDonaldTrump as the winner of the Republican South Carolina Primary. pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) February 21, 2016,  7:28: NBC News projects Donald Trump will win the South Carolina primary. 7:02: RNC on Clinton’s Nevada win: Hillary Clinton’s surprising underperformance in a state she should have won handily is another blow for her struggling campaign,  —   Reince Priebus (@Reince) February 20, 2016,  7:00: Polls close in South Carolina. Networks say it’s a   race (  ). Fox News’s says it is a “close race” in South Carolina and “too early” to project a winner. 6:52: Chair of Party with No Minority Presidential Candidates Slams Republicans for Not Being More Like the “Rainbow that Looks Like America’ Though Democrats do not have any minorities running for president, DNC Chair Wasserman Schultz says Democrats represent the “rainbow that looks like America” while Republicans put “a little bit of the rainbow in the front row” at their convention. 6:47: DNC Chair Wasserman Shultz tries her best to spin her party’s “ ” selection process. She says the media need to report in a different way and not add the pledged super delegates at the end of every contest because the super delegates can change their mind. On MSNBC, Maddow acknowledges that many    Dems are rightfully upset at the “VIP votes. ” 6:46: Sanders predicts “one of the greatest political upsets in the history of the United States” at the Democratic convention. 6:45:   angry at Sanders’s supporters: Dear @BernieSanders:You must address this. Asap.  https:  .   —   Jose Antonio Vargas (@joseiswriting) February 20, 2016,  @BernieSanders Shame on your supporters for depriving Spanish speaking caucus goers of info they need for full participation! #NVcaucus,  —   Dolores Huerta (@DoloresHuerta) February 20, 2016,  I offered to translate  Bernie supporters chanted English only! We fought too long  hard to be silenced Si Se Puede! #ImwithHer #NVcaucus,  —   Dolores Huerta (@DoloresHuerta) February 20, 2016,    6:43: Sanders believes he has an “excellent” chance to win many Super Tuesday states. He says his campaign is up against a powerful Super PAC that receives money from Wall Street and special interests before Super Tuesday. He asks for small donations to help him combat Clinton’s Super PAC. 6:38: Bernie Sanders is taking the stage in Nevada. He mentions that he was 25 points behind five weeks ago and made progress. Sanders says Clinton ran an “aggressive” and “effective” campaign and he applauds the Clinton campaign for its efforts. Sanders says his campaign is about bringing more people into he political process and again blasts the corrupt campaign finance system that is undermining democracy. He will not let billionaires and Super PACs by elections. He says the American people are catching on that we have a “rigged economy. ” He also slams the country’s broken criminal justice system. Wall Street executives whose illegal behavior destroys the economy do not get criminal records, Sanders says. His says “our job is to bring justice back to the criminal justice system. ” 6:30: Brian Williams does his best to downplay Clinton’s health concerns. He says Clinton has been trying to suppress a cough all week and her unusual coughing fit was the subject of certain websites last week. 6:22: Clinton now speaks about “systemic racism” and reforming criminal   systems. Clinton always sounds like she is lecturing when speechifying before large crowd, as if she doesn’t realize how she sounds when she tries to compete with crowd noise. Clinton says she knows what young people are up against and says it has to be about “what we’re going to build together” and not just what we give to you. Clinton says she will propose new ways for more Americans to get involved in national service. Appealing directly to minority voters: Clinton says imagine a tomorrow where “no child grows up in the shadow of discrimination and under the specter of deportation. ” [This was Clinton’s first “victory” speech without an asterisk and her husband seems just as —  if not more —  relieved than Clinton] 6:20: Taking a    shot at Sanders, Clinton says “we’re not a   country. ” 6:16: An exuberant Hillary Clinton thanks Nevada supporters. She says she is “so thrilled” and “grateful” to all of her supporters. “This one’s for you,” she says. She said her supporters turned out in every corner of the state. She said hotel and casino workers never wavered and “students with too much debt” and “small business owners who never go off the clock” all supported her. She says this is “your campaign” and it is a “campaign to break down every barrier that holds you back. ” “We hear you, we see you, we’re incredibly grateful to you,” Clinton says. Clinton says there is so much that is wrong in this country (but doesn’t mention much of what she is speaking about has occurred under Obama’s presidency). Clinton pivots to South Carolina and talks about “crumbling classrooms. ” She talks about Flint’s “poison water” that residents were forced to drink because the governor wanted to save money. She says Americans have a right to be angry and talks about wanting to get secret, unaccountable money out of politics (Clinton always says this with a straight face). She says Wall Street should not be able to threaten Main Street after saying that the next Supreme Court Justice shouldn’t let corporations buy elections. 6:15: She was for it before she was against TPP, though: Union support key to Clinton’s huge win in Nevada. Her decision to reject Obama’s TPP trade deal definitely helped.  —   Bob Cusack (@BobCusack) February 20, 2016,  6:13: Bernie claims he has the wind at his back: Proud that we brought many working and young people into the political process. We have the wind at our back as we head into Super Tuesday.  —   Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) February 20, 2016,  I am very proud of the campaign we ran. Five weeks ago we were 25 points behind and we ended up in a very close election.  —   Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) February 20, 2016,  6:11: Like in   Hampshire, there seems to be an enthusiasm gap: I’m hearing state Dems estimating turnout at 80, 000. It was almost 120, 000 in ’08.  —   Jon Ralston (@RalstonReports) February 20, 2016,  6:08: Bernie concedes Nevada to Hillary. 6:07: Nevada reporters giving Harry Reid a lot of credit for helping out the Clinton machine in Nevada. 6:05: Huge voter turnout in South Carolina: At 9:30am at this polling place in Columbia, SC, 16% of the precinct has already voted either in person or by absentee ballot. #Decision2016,  —   Frank Thorp V (@frankthorpNBC) February 20, 2016,  BREAKING Spartanburg County election office: Already near 40 percent turnout  —   previous years 18 to 20 percent! Our coverage starts at 6pm!  —   WSPA 7News (@WSPA7) February 20, 2016,  5:57: Scene at Hillary’s Nevada victory party before she gives her speech. Funny how Texas can wait a few hours after favorable Nevada results: CNN on monitors here calls race for @HillaryClinton, crowd erupts with applause. pic. twitter.   —   Megan Messerly (@meganmesserly) February 20, 2016,  5:53: Observe how the network anchors and reporters “report” on Hillary Clinton’s Nevada win vs. how they “report” on South Carolina’s GOP primary. It is pretty obvious which person is the home team to the “homer”  . Nobody is going to mistake any of them for the political equivalent of Vin Scully to say the least. 5:47: More exit polling from South Carolina, per CBS. Terrorism top concern 40% ‘angry,’ Only 7% happy with federal government: 5:43: Ten points &gt than NH:   of SC Voters Support Trump’s Temporary Muslim Ban  —   Breitbart https:  .  via @BreitbartNews,  —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) February 20, 2016,  5:40: Nate Cohn doesn’t think Sanders will end up winning the Hispanic vote in Nevada: In the end, Clinton probably stretches this out to a 6 point lead. pic. twitter.   —   Nate Cohn (@Nate_Cohn) February 20, 2016,  Based on the results in Clark, the precincts in ELV, and the overall entrance poll error, I do not believe Sanders won the Hispanic vote.  —   Nate Cohn (@Nate_Cohn) February 20, 2016,  And as a general rule, I have big reservations about the ability of exit polls to measure a group like Hispanic voters, let alone w small n,  —   Nate Cohn (@Nate_Cohn) February 20, 2016,  5:37: Wow! Sanders supporters reportedly changed “English only” to Dolores Huerta as she tried to provide Spanish translations to  : regarding @AmericaFerrera tweet from earlier: I have confirmed that it happened from a source knowledgable,  —   E   (@EvanMcSan) February 20, 2016,  https:  .  https:  .   —   E   (@EvanMcSan) February 20, 2016,  5:33: Rep. Jim Clyburn ( ) who endorsed Clinton last week, said on MSNBC that Clinton will “win comfortably” in South Carolina and that she will get the “lion’s share” of the votes in the Palmetto State next week. 5:30: Hillary Clinton is ecstatic. Paul Begala is right in this case —  there are no spreads in politics. A big win for Clinton before South Carolina’s primary. Curiously, South Carolina’s primary is positioned to help Clinton potentially get some more momentum: To everyone who turned out in every corner of Nevada with determination and heart: This is your win. Thank you.    —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 20, 2016,  The feeling is mutual, Nevada. pic. twitter.   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 20, 2016,  5:12  —   Trump campaign manager on SC: “It’s gonna be close.“ “I think Trump brings new people to the table. I think we’re expecting record turnout. We saw record turnout in Iowa, we saw record turnout in New Hampshire. I hope that a record number of people turn out tomorrow because if they do, I think Mr. Trump’s going to have a good day,” campaign manager Corey Lewandowski told reporters. “I think it’s going to be close. ” 5:05  —   Fox News, unsurprisingly, calls Nevada for Hillary Clinton  …      —   BREAKING NEWS: Fox News projects @HillaryClinton as the winner of the Democratic Nevada Caucus. #NVDemsCaucus pic. twitter.   —   johnny dollar (@johnnydollar01) February 20, 2016,   —   5:00  —   With 76% reporting in Nevada, Hillary Clinton leads by +4 points, 52% to 48%. The narrative, however, is not good for Hillary. Bernie is proving he can compete in a state that is not  . What we’re hearing a lot of from the pundits is that Hillary is in for a long campaign. 4:42  —   From coin tosses to   Hillary Clinton cannot stop beating Bernie Sanders when luck takes the place of voters. To break tied precincts in Iowa, Hillary won every coin toss  —   6 out of 6  —   the odds of which are less than 2%. In Nevada today, Democrats play a game of   card to determine a tie and   Hillary just won with an ace to Bernie’s 6 in the precinct of Pahrump, NV. Hillary is now 7 for 7 in the game of chance against Bernie. 4:29: Clinton 51. 4, Sanders 48. 5. 24% reporting. 4:28: Sanders wining Latinos and Whites per entrance polls: Sanders winning Latinos and Whites. pic. twitter.   —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) February 20, 2016,  4:25: From Breitbart’s Michelle Moons in Nevada: Harry Reid’s precinct overwhelmingly supported Clinton, two Bernie supporters (of three) had family members on the Clinton side which took 22 votes. Reid did not take a side, 4:22: Hillary’s Ace beats Bernie’s 6? Pahrump precinct chair Peggy Rhoads with the cards drawn in tied Precinct 10. Hillary’s ace beat Bernie’s six. pic. twitter.   —   Reid J. Epstein (@reidepstein) February 20, 2016,  4:20: Photo may say it all: Older voters for Hillary, Younger voters for Sanders: 73 at my precinct. Hillary crowd (top) looks larger, trends older. Bernie crowd (below) younger, smaller pic. twitter.   —   Michelle Rindels (@RindelsAP) February 20, 2016,  4:15: Sanders 50. 3, Clinton 49. 4. 14% reporting. 4:12: With 13% reporting, Clinton and Sanders are in a dead heat, 4:05: Priceless reaction: Look at Hillary’s numbers on trustworthiness. pic. twitter.   —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) February 20, 2016,  4:02: Facebook conversations: 1. Bernie Sanders (69%) 2. Hillary Clinton (31%) Candidates in South Carolina: 1. Donald Trump (56%) 2. Marco Rubio (22%) 3. Ted Cruz (17%) 4. John Kasich (2%) 5. Jeb Bush (1%) 6. Ben Carson (1%) Top Issues in Nevada: 1. Government Ethics 2. Citizens United and SuperPACs 3. Education 4. Racial Issues 5. Immigration, Top Issues in South Carolina: 1. Pope Francis 2. Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants 3. The Affordable Care Act 4. Islam and Muslims 5. Racism and discrimination, 3:55: From Breitbart’s Michelle Moons in Nevada:  (Photos: Michelle   News) 3:50: From Breitbart’s Adelle Nazarian in Nevada: “Left to right: Richard Perkins, former speaker of the state assembly and former chief of police in Henderson Nevada, former Nevada Governor Robert Miller ( ). Both are Hillary supporters: (photo: Adelle   News) Hillary supporters: (Photo: Adelle   News) 3:40: Nearly 68% of   say they made up their minds more than a month ago.   even among those voters. 3:35: Sanders walloping Clinton with voters who want a candidate who “cares about people like me” and is “honest and trustworthy. ” Clinton leading among voters who value electability and experience: Can win in November (19%) Clinton: 77% Sanders: 17%   Cares about people like me (28%) Clinton: 19% Sanders: 79%   Honest and trustworthy (25%) Clinton: 11% Sanders: 85%   Has the right experience (25%) Clinton: 92% Sanders: 7%   3:33: Entrance Polls have Sanders beating Clinton among Hispanics (18% of voters) by 11 points (54% %) 3:30:    Inequality big issues for Nevada’s   (CBS’s entrance poll): Early   in Nevada say that the two most important issue facing the country are the economy (34 percent) and income inequality (29 percent). This is followed by health care at 21 percent. Only 9 percent of Democratic   so far have suggested that terrorism is the most important issue facing the nation today. 3:27:   GOP donors still scared to go after Trump (or they don’t trust the hacks who only care about getting candidates and donors to pay them big dollars who are trying to get these   efforts up and running): 3:26: Only 20% of Nevada’s Dem caucus goers care about electability, GOP big $ still seems scared to go after Trump:   super PAC @MakeUSAAwesome raised all of $98, 640 in Jan. https:  .   —   Kenneth P. Vogel (@kenvogel) February 20, 2016,  3:25: Voters citing honesty as their top issue are for Sanders. 3:20: More analysis of entrance polls from ABC:   caucusing for first time,   “very liberal,”  …     half say next president should continue Obama’s policies: Among caucus goers under age 45,   in preliminary entrance poll results support Sanders for the nomination among those 45 and older, Clinton easily prevails. There’s also a wave of newcomers in the caucuses:   say it’s their first time attending a Nevada Democratic presidential caucus. Sanders does better in this group, while Clinton pushes back strongly among repeat attenders. A remarkable seven in 10 caucus goers describe themselves as liberals, including a third “very” liberal  —   far higher than their share in the 2008 Nevada caucuses, 45 and 18 percent, respectively. Liberals are a better group for Sanders, moderates for Clinton. [  …    ] At the same time, about half of caucus goers say the next president should generally continue Obama’s policies, a very strong group for Clinton about four in 10 prefer more liberal policies, an overwhelmingly   group. (There was a   percent split on this question in Iowa, where Clinton narrowly won, compared with   percent in in New Hampshire, where Sanders romped.) 3:15: Entrance polls: Clinton only has   lead among   voters in Nevada, According to preliminary entrance polls  (voters can change their mind at the caucus sites so they aren’t that reliable) the Nevada caucus electorate is 64% white, 12% black, 17% Hispanic. Clinton has a   lead among   voters, according to entrance polls. Clinton leads with white college graduates (50% %) while Sanders leads with white   graduates (52% %). 3:05: Backlash already expected from Sanders supporters: No matter what happens today, Clinton likely to win dels when supers added  —   expect Sanders supporter backlash if he  .  —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) February 20, 2016,  2:57: Si Se Puede vs. Feel the Bern: As vocal Clinton supporters wait in line chanting ”si se puede” a nurse for Bernie walks by quietly mouthing ”feel the Bern” to herself.  —   Megan Messerly (@meganmesserly) February 20, 2016,  ”Hillary 2016” and ”Feel the Bern” chanting in unison. pic. twitter.   —   Megan Messerly (@meganmesserly) February 20, 2016,  2:50: “Madam President” v. “Madam Liar” Difficulty of caucus. Two older black men Sanders supporters one says he’s leaving because this takes too long.  —   Adrian Carrasquillo (@Carrasquillo) February 20, 2016,  So about that Dem party coming together in unity. HRC people chanting ”Madam President!” Bernie precinct captain calls yells ”Madam Liar!”  —   Adrian Carrasquillo (@Carrasquillo) February 20, 2016,  2:45: Cruz mailer slams Rubio: How they do it in SC. Here’s @tedcruz mailer on @marcorubio pic. twitter.   —   Michael Isikoff (@Isikoff) February 20, 2016,  2:30: Scenes from Nevada: Campaign volunteer to  : ”You’re not going to let a plate of nachos influence your vote, are you?” #Nevadacaucus,  —   Chris Kudialis (@kudialisLVSun) February 20, 2016,  Volunteers from @HillaryClinton  @BernieSanders campaigns giving away everything from stickerssigns to plates of food @ Rancho High School,  —   Chris Kudialis (@kudialisLVSun) February 20, 2016,  Congressman Tony Cardenas, endorsing Hillary Clinton, is met with ”Bernie” chants at Rancho High School #Nevadacaucus pic. twitter.   —   Chris Kudialis (@kudialisLVSun) February 20, 2016,  At the official @nvdems results reporting center.  One hour 27 minutes to go @lasvegassun pic. twitter.   —   Ricardo Torres (@rickytwrites) February 20, 2016,  Bill clinton at Caesars Palace caucus site. pic. twitter.   —   Peter Nicholas (@PeterNicholas3) February 20, 2016,  Group of extremely vocal @HillaryClinton supporters just arrived. pic. twitter.   —   Megan Messerly (@meganmesserly) February 20, 2016,  Clinton asked every Harrah’s employee she met to caucus for her today: ”11 o’clock in the showroom! I need you!” pic. twitter.   —   Monica Alba (@AlbaMonica) February 20, 2016,  Sanders greets a few hundred union workers at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) February 20, 2016,  Brian Sherrett, who rarely votes, is backing @BernieSanders. ”Bernie is for the middle class. Hillary is the elite.” pic. twitter.   —   Kate Linthicum (@katelinthicum) February 20, 2016,  ”¡Vota por el cambio! ”yells Sanders backer. ”When I say Madame, you say President,” Clinton supporters fire back. pic. twitter.   —   Kate Linthicum (@katelinthicum) February 20, 2016,  2:15: NBC’s Kristen Welker says the Clinton campaign has been surprised by the level of support Clinton is receiving among Hispanics, and that is why her campaign is doubling down on   voters. Sanders has put DREAMers like Erika Andiola in top positions in his campaign. Interestingly, Hillary Clinton first made waves by hiring illegal immigrant DREAMer Lorella Praeli to work on her campaign but the Sanders campaign has been much better at showcasing its Latino activist staffers: The right way to make Latinos part of a pres. campaign. #NVcaucus @ErikaAndiola @DREAMerJ_D https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   John R Gagain Jr (@jgagain) February 20, 2016,  2:10: Breitbart News’s Julia Hahn’s story (Exclusive: On Eve of South Carolina Vote, Nation’s ICE Officers Detail How Marco Rubio Betrayed Them) seems to have rattled Rubio. Doesn’t bode well for a candidate who is trying to avoid being perceived as someone who talks out of both sides of his mouth, especially on amnesty, with   “words that work” that   D. C. consultants have crafted for him: Don’t miss this great @marcorubio   for Breitbart News published on Wednesday https:  .   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) February 20, 2016,  Oh hey, it’s my @marcorubio credential from December pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) February 20, 2016,  Filed this story this morning after talking with @marcorubio earlier this week  …      https:  .   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) February 20, 2016,  Not sure what @marcorubio is talking about. I interviewed him this week  —   credentialed for multiple events. https:  .   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) February 20, 2016,  2:00: Hillary flips Will Ferrell (former Sanders supporter): Will Ferrell has a message for you, Nevada: Caucus for Hillary today at 11AM. Your location: https:  . :  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 20, 2016,  1:57: And Kasich is in  …     Vermont: Thank you for the enthusiastic welcome, Vermont! https:  .   —   John Kasich (@JohnKasich) February 20, 2016,  1:53: Rubio camp making more accusations: Rubio accuses @tedcruz of making false calls  —   without a single shred of evidence. Put up or shut up, Marco.  —   toddstarnes (@toddstarnes) February 20, 2016,  1:50: Trump slams Rubio on amnesty: Remember that Marco Rubio is very weak on illegal immigration. South Carolina needs strength as illegals and Syrians pour in. Don’t allow it,  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 20, 2016,  1:45: Rubio campaign engaging in dirty tricks? Made up. In fact we have reports of Rubio campaign spreading lies about Jeb  Kasich at precincts on the coast.  https:  .   —   Tim Miller (@Timodc) February 20, 2016,  1:40: Hillary Clinton shirts ready for caucus goers. I don’t see any similar collection for team Sanders. pic. twitter.   —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) February 20, 2016,  Calm before the caucus at New York New York. pic. twitter.   —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) February 20, 2016,  1:30: After attending Justice Scalia’s funeral, Ted Cruz says Scalia’s passing underscores the stakes of this election because the Court hangs in the balance. He praises Scalia’s  “extraordinary legacy” and for being a “lion of the law”  the importance of the   meaning of the Constitution. Cruz says Scalia “changed the course of American legal history” by ferociously defending the Bill of Rights, and he says his daughters’s liberties are more secure because of Scalia. 1:28  —   Earlier today, Trump blasted Cruz over robocalls:  —   Lying #Ted Cruz just (on election day) came out with a sneak and sleazy Robocall. He holds up the Bible but in fact is a true lowlife pol!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 20, 2016,  —   1:21  —   Robocalls hit Trump over comments about Confederate Flag, gay rights: NPR: A superPAC supporting Ted Cruz is hitting Donald Trump in South Carolina radio ads and robo calls for his support of the removal of the Confederate battle flag from the State Capitol grounds. Another robo call out Friday night is also hitting Trump for appearing to be supportive of “forward motion” on LGBT equality. You can listen to the calls here.  —   1:13 pm  —   Cruz camp hits CNN with RT over the   network’s handling of robocall rumors (see below):  —   @RealBPhil @CNN CNN reports accurate Carson story and attack Cruz for sharing it. CNN reports false Rubio claims and they cuddle Rubio #tcot,  —   SeanB (@The_Sean_B) February 20, 2016,   —   1:09 pm  —   It appears as though the Cruz camp is denying the complaints from the Rubio camp about robocalls.  —   Rubio camp spreading false rumors to deflect from Rubio’s record of supporting amnesty, not showing up, etc https:  .   —   Brian Phillips (@RealBPhil) February 20, 2016,   —   1:06 pm  —   There are reports that the Rubio camp is complaining about robocalls coming from the Cruz camp telling voters Rubio is dropping out: Here we are: @marcorubio‘s campaign is asking @tedcruz to repudiate robocalls that allegedly suggest Rubio is dropping out.  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) February 20, 2016,   —   12:55 Chief strategist for the Kasich campaign says Jeb Bush is toast after South Carolina  …    . The chief strategist for John Kasich’s presidential campaign on Saturday predicted that Jeb Bush’s campaign would come to an end after the South Carolina primary.  —   12:21  —   NBC News: Clinton Lead Over Sanders Among Latino Voters Rapidly Narrowing, Yet among Hispanic voters, what had been a    or better Clinton lead for the past six months has narrowed dramatically in the two weeks following the Iowa Caucuses. Where our surveys had shown Clinton leading by 20 percentages points or better during December and January, her advantage had reduced to just three percentage points (46 to 43 percent) on our most recent week of tracking (from February   14).  —   11:42 am  —   Trump asks if Obama would have attended Justice Antonin Scalia’s funeral if it were held at a mosque:  —   I wonder if President Obama would have attended the funeral of Justice Scalia if it were held in a Mosque? Very sad that he did not go!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 20, 2016,   —   11:00 am  —   Final polls out of Nevada, per the Real Clear Politics polls of polls out of Nevada, shows a squeaker Hillary is just +2. 5  points ahead of Bernie.  —   10:58 am  —   Final polls out of South Carolina, per the Real Clear Politics poll of polls, shows Trump ahead by +13. Trump 32% Rubio 19% Cruz 18. 5% Bush 11% Kasich, 9% Carson 7%.  —   10:51 am  —   Consequential day today for both political parties. If Trump can win in South Carolina, he will be hard to stop. If Sanders can win or come close in Nevada, Bernie Sanders will prove he can win in a state that is not all white. Polls close tonight.