Rapper 50 Cent is accused of bullying an apparently disabled teen, whom he alleged, in a video he posted on Instagram Sunday, of being high on drugs. [The rapper, who is legally named Curtis Jackson, shared a video of an encounter he had with a teen janitor at the   Kentucky International Airport over the weekend.  After the teen reportedly did not respond to him, the rapper started filming the encounter on his phone. “The new generation is crazy,” 5o Cent said on the video, which shows a young man pushing a cart of cleaning supplies. “What’s your name?” 50 asked the teen. “Look at him, what kind of s —  t you think he took before he got to work today? He high as a motherf —  ker right here in the airport. Pupils dilated, everything.   …     The new generation is f —  king crazy. ” Watch the video: An Instagram user quickly identified the young man in the video as Andrew Farrell, 19, according to cincinnati. com. “I went to school with him,” wrote rusty_stone9. “He has extreme social difficulties just to let you know. He has a hard enough time getting through life without jackasses like you making fun of him. I hope you feel good about yourself. You just lost a huge fan. ” Farrell’s mother, Amanda Kramer, told the outlet her son has overcome numerous challenges, and despite suffering from severe social anxiety disorder, a form of autism, and a hearing impairment, he obtained the job on his own and shows up for work every day. “Why would you attack my kid like that?” Kramer said. “It doesn’t say much about his character when he has to attack a kid he doesn’t even know. ” Kramer added, “Everything he said about him is not true. He gets up. He goes to work. He does his job. He goes home. He doesn’t bother anybody.   …     He doesn’t talk to people very often. He’s got a social anxiety disorder. He also has a hearing impairment. ” Farrell told the outlet he was “just starting work” and minding his own business when 50 Cent approached him. “I want people to know that he’s a good kid. He doesn’t get in trouble. He’s not a drug addict,” said Amanda Kramer, who also requested an apology from the rapper. 50 Cent has deleted the video and has not commented on the incident. At least one Cincinnati bar is now boycotting 50 Cent’s Effin Vodka brand.