Comedian and actress Amy Schumer is upset at Glamour magazine for including her in a list of   stars. [Schumer, 34, took to Instagram on Monday to complain after she was mentioned on the cover of a “Chic At Any Size” special edition of the magazine alongside actress Melissa McCarthy, British singer Adele, and   model Ashley Graham.  The leftwing feminist’s chief complaint was that by labeling her as “” the publication was sending the wrong message to “young girls. ”  I think there’s nothing wrong with being plus size. Beautiful healthy women. Plus size is considered size 16 in America. I go between a size 6 and an 8. @glamourmag put me in their plus size only issue without asking or letting me know and it doesn’t feel right to me. Young girls seeing my body type thinking that is plus size? What are your thoughts? Mine are not cool glamour not glamourous, A photo posted by @amyschumer on Apr 5, 2016 at 8:18am PDT,  “I think there’s nothing wrong with being plus size. Beautiful healthy women. Plus size is considered size 16 in America. I go between a size 6 and an 8. @glamourmag put me in their plus size only issue without asking or letting me know and it doesn’t feel right to me,” she wrote on Instagram. Schumer added: “Young girls seeing my body type thinking that is plus size? What are your thoughts? Mine are not cool glamour not glamourous. ” After Elite Daily tweeted an article that declared Schumer is “definitely not ” the comedian responded: “Thanks @EliteDaily ! Just a little odd an unfair not to be told. ” Thanks @EliteDaily ! Just a little odd an unfair not to be told.  https:  .   —   Amy Schumer (@amyschumer) April 5, 2016,  Last October, Schumer described her lifelong struggle with her weight. “Some nights I just didn’t even want to go on stage because I couldn’t find an outfit I looked good in,” she said at a at a Goodwill of California event. She later told Today: “It’s been a struggle for me my whole life. ” Hours before she complained about being included in Glamour‘s   list on Monday night, the Inside Amy Schumer star took to Instagram to complain about being excluded from a list of “Bad Celebrity Chins. ”  Pretty pissed I wasn’t mentioned, A photo posted by @amyschumer on Apr 4, 2016 at 8:13pm PDT,  That list included Lady Gaga, Miley Cyrus, and Matthew Perry.