TEL AVIV  —     Donald Trump announced in a statement on Thursday that will nominate attorney and advisor David Friedman as U. S. ambassador to Israel. [Friedman responded by making clear he supports moving the U. S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.  “The bond between Israel and the United States runs deep, and I will ensure there is no daylight between us when I’m President,” Trump said in the statement. “As the United States’ Ambassador to Israel, David Friedman will maintain the special relationship between our two countries. He has been a   friend and trusted advisor to me. His strong relationships in Israel will form the foundation of his diplomatic mission and be a tremendous asset to our country as we strengthen the ties with our allies and strive for peace in the Middle East. Nothing is more critical than protecting the security of our citizens at home and abroad. ” “I am deeply honored and humbled by the confidence placed in me by   Trump to represent the United States as its Ambassador to Israel,” Friedman said in response to the announcement. “I intend to work tirelessly to strengthen the unbreakable bond between our two countries and advance the cause of peace within the region, and look forward to doing this from the U. S. embassy in Israel’s eternal capital, Jerusalem. ” During the 2016 presidential campaign, Friedman served as Trump’s main advisor on issues related to Israel. A press release put out by Trump’s transition team stated that under Friedman’s leadership “the   relationship will be a model of cooperation and respect. ” The transition statement further said that the incoming Trump administration anticipates “extraordinary strategic, technological, military and intelligence cooperation” between the U. S. and Israel. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.