ST. LOUIS  —   At first, the funeral for the rock ’n’ roll pioneer Chuck Berry followed a traditional   format. There were prayers and readings of formal condolences from officeholders and congregations. A pianist played “Sweet Hour of Prayer,” and the soprano Marlissa Hudson, a St. Louis native, sang “Ave Maria. ” Then Billy Peek pulled out his guitar and belted “Johnny B. Goode. ” Mr. Peek, a local blues musician who played alongside Mr. Berry for decades, earned loud cheers from the roughly 1, 000 mourners. Many rose to their feet and danced as he mimicked Mr. Berry’s   strut, known as the duck walk. Mr. Berry died on March 18 of natural causes at age 90 in his home near Wentzville, an outer suburb of St. Louis. The   funeral on Sunday afternoon honored a musician who helped forge rock ’n’ roll but never moved away from his hometown and continued faithfully playing gigs there until he was in his late 80s. The service took place at the Pageant, a music hall in the city’s west end less than three miles from the family home where Mr. Berry was born. Many appreciative fans paid their respects during a   viewing before the funeral. Mr. Berry was laid out in a polished mahogany coffin and dressed in a vintage glittery purple shirt, white jacket and  ’s hat. His red Gibson guitar rested on the white inner lining of the coffin lid. Two funeral directors in white gloves stood guard,  . A row of floral displays included an arrangement of white blooms shaped like a guitar. “Thanks for the inspiration,” read the accompanying card, from the Rolling Stones. The service included laudatory letters from Paul McCartney (“As you know, Chuck was a huge influence on me and my companions”) Little Richard the Smithsonian Institution and the Rock  Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, which included Mr. Berry in its first class of honorees. Representative William Lacy Clay, Democrat of Missouri, read a statement from former President Bill Clinton that praised the musician as a uniter: “He drew from many different traditions yet his music was innovative in spirit, and he spoke of the joy, hopes, and dreams we all have in common. ” Gene Simmons of Kiss, who was in St. Louis for a   convention, attended the service and took the stage for impromptu remarks. Mr. Simmons said he was riveted by Mr. Berry’s music when he was an    newcomer to America from Israel. “He changed more little white boys’ and girls’ lives than all the politicians by making them move like this,” Mr. Simmons said as he gyrated at the podium. “Rock ’n’ roll was started by a guy who just wanted to make people feel better. ” After the service, the family departed for a private burial as a local New   brass band outside played mournful renditions of the “St. Louis Blues” and “Just a Closer Walk With Thee. ” The Pageant is part of a revived entertainment strip on Delmar Boulevard, known simply as the Loop from streetcar days. Three blocks to its west is Blueberry Hill, a tavern that was Mr. Berry’s main venue for 18 years, until 2014. He played monthly there in the Duck Room, named in his honor. Joe Edwards, a longtime friend of Mr. Berry, owns Blueberry Hill and founded the St. Louis Walk of Fame, a line of bronze stars in the Delmar sidewalk that honors St. Louisans, including the poet T. S. Eliot, the dancer Josephine Baker, the singer Tina Turner, the actor John Goodman and the Cardinals’ baseball greats Stan Musial and Ozzie Smith. Mr. Berry’s star, the first to be installed, is near the tavern’s front door. On the night before the funeral, Mr. Edwards and about 120 fans gathered there to toast Mr. Berry with Johnny Rivers, one of the musician’s contemporaries. Mr. Edwards led the crowd in a countdown to 10 p. m. the usual start time for Mr. Berry’s shows. Mr. Edwards called for a moment of silence, which was drowned by cheering and shouted lines from Mr. Berry’s hits  —   exuberance that testifies to Mr. Berry’s staying power in his hometown. “He was proud of this city and we were proud of him for sticking around,” said Ralph Morse, 66, who said he had attended 91 Berry concerts. “He kept on playing for us. You could sit down and talk with him after a show, and he’d say, ‘Thank you. ’” Mr. Edwards said Mr. Berry’s commitment solidified his legacy. “He could have gone to the East or West Coasts, but he was determined to do it on his own terms,” he said. “That is very meaningful to the musicians and people of St. Louis. And he could have stopped playing years ago, but he loved that connection with the audience. ” Ethel Peebles, 63, whose parents grew up with Mr. Berry, said she had enjoyed his music since she childhood: “When you are down and out, the music will lift you up. ” Most of the people who attended the events were teenagers when Mr. Berry started releasing records in the late 1950s. Then there was Amanda Weinstein, 19, a Floridian who attends Washington University south of the Loop. “I completely grew up on classic rock, the Stones and the Beatles,” Ms. Weinstein said. “I came to understand that it all started with Chuck Berry. So I had to be here. ”