(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The White House accused Russia of trying to cover up the Syrian government’s role in last week’s chemical attack. Officials released a declassified report that details the American intelligence on the attack, asserting that the Syrian government was responsible and accusing Russia of using disinformation to obscure the facts. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson struck a harsh tone at a Group of 7 meeting in Italy, saying that President Bashar  ’s reign was “coming to an end. ” Now he’s in Moscow, above, for what will be a closely watched meeting with Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov. The White House spokesman, Sean Spicer, caused outrage when he contrasted Mr. Assad with Hitler and said incorrectly that Hitler didn’t use chemical weapons. Our podcast “The Daily” explores how Mr. Assad went from   ophthalmology student to brutal ruler. _____ 2. President Trump aimed his Twitter feed at Beijing, which he said would get a better trade deal if it solved “the North Korean problem. ” Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China met last week at Mr. Trump’s    estate in Florida, but there was no announcement about their talks on the North Korean nuclear threat. Above, directing traffic in Pyongyang. In South Korea, conjecture about a   American strike on the North is spreading fast. The government tried to tamp down concern, saying there would be no such attack without its consent. In the latest “Right and Left: Partisan Writing You Shouldn’t Miss,” we look at foreign policy doctrine, whether California will secede and whether “humanitarian wars” exist. _____ 3. The White House faces another big test this weekend: pulling off the annual Easter Egg Roll. With key staff positions unfilled and no   first lady, the White House is scrambling to organize the most elaborate public event of the year. Last year’s drew 37, 000 people. “This thing is all hands on deck,” said Melinda Bates, who organized eight of them under President Bill Clinton. _____ 4. United Airlines apologized for the forcible removal of a passenger from an overbooked flight after video of the episode caused widespread outrage. Oscar Munoz, the company’s chief executive, said in a statement that United would take “full responsibility” for the situation and that “no one should ever be mistreated this way. ” The company’s stock price had fallen before his statement. The video, in which the passenger is screaming and bloodied as he’s dragged off by security officers, cast a sharp focus on airline overbooking policies. And it was widely shared in China, with many people accusing United of racism (the passenger was Asian). _____ 5. Agents with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives used a secret,    bank account to rent a $21, 000 suite at a Nascar race, travel to Las Vegas and donate to the school of one of the agents’ children, according to records and interviews. The Justice Department is investigating the secret account, which was also used to finance undercover operations around the country. The Times revealed the existence of the bank account, which was connected to an investigation into cigarette smuggling, in February. _____ 6. London, the metropolis that globalization created, may well be the capital of the world. But after the “Brexit” referendum, its future as an international crossroads is far from certain. In a series of stunning photographs and an accompanying essay, we see the city’s iconic locales, and scenes of daily life, through the lens of its current limbo. _____ 7. What looks like an epidemic of vitamin D deficiency may be a product of overuse of a test and misreading of its results. As a consequence, millions of healthy people think they have a deficiency, and some are taking supplemental doses so high they can cause poor appetite, nausea and vomiting. _____ 8. After a long search, a comedian has agreed to perform at this year’s White House Correspondents’ Dinner, normally the glittering jewel of Washington’s social calendar. Hasan Minhaj of “The Daily Show” will step up to the plate during a tense year marked by conflict between the new administration and the news media. Mr. Trump is skipping the festivities, the first president to do so since the 1970s, and Vanity Fair and Bloomberg canceled their famed  . _____ 9. Finally, in the best of   TV: On “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” John Stamos and Bob Saget, the former stars of “Full House,” remembered Don Rickles, the famed insult comedian who died last week. And we looked at how Stephen Colbert has made the “The Late Show” great again. Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.