Five women were sexually assaulted by a gang of asylum seekers in Germany as police say the migrants threatened to beat the women with beer and champagne bottles. [The attack occurred in the early morning on Saturday in the German city of Hildesheim as the trio of migrants approached at least five different women, trying to kiss them, grope them and have sex with them. Police say that the attackers were 16 and    and live at a nearby hotel that has been turned into an asylum accommodation, reports local paper Hildesheimer Allgemeine Zeitung.  Police say that the victims of the attack, all between 18 and    were walking down the streets of the city at around 2:40 am when they were approached by the trio of migrants. The migrants spoke to the women in English and attempted to corner them and kiss them. The victims say that the gang made various physical gestures that made it clear they were after sex. When the women resisted the migrants by telling them to go away and using body language to ensure the migrants understood they weren’t interested, the migrants became irate. The men followed the women and then set upon them, striking the women in the face and grabbing their buttocks. One migrant kicked one of the women in the stomach. After the beating the migrants once again tried to engage the women and this time threatened to smash several glass bottles of beer and champagne over the heads of the women if they didn’t comply with the demands of the migrants. Three men on the street noticed the altercation and alerted police before confronting the migrants. The unnamed men was also attacked by the trio before police arrived on the scene. Police arrested two of the three migrants, a    Afghani and a    Iranian. the third attacker managed to flee and police say they are still looking for him. According to the authorities the    was visibly drunk and his partner passed out during the interrogation process due to circulatory issues, likely caused by alcohol. Migrant sex assaults during the summer are becoming increasingly common in Germany and other countries that have taken in large amounts of migrants like Austria and Sweden. In Sweden police have even claimed that the sexual assaults are not the fault of the migrants but rather the European “drinking culture. ” This weekend also saw massive sexual assaults at a festival in the German city of Essen where at least 10 German women were sexually assaulted by men of a migrant origin.