  New York Times bestselling author Ann Coulter told Breitbart News exclusively on Wednesday that there’s no way a new report from New York City think tank the Center for Migration Studies estimating there are now less than 11 million illegal aliens in America is correct. [Coulter told Breitbart News in response to the bogus study, which was hyped by the Washington Post:  Any   knows that the government hasn’t the first idea how many illegal aliens are in the country,” Coulter told Breitbart News in response to the bogus study, which was hyped by the Washington Post. “Not the the foggiest notion. Government officials can’t even tell us how many illegal aliens are in the government’s own custody in prison  —   and they show surprisingly little interest in finding out. Suspicions ought to be piqued by the fact that all official sources assure us that there have been exactly 11 million illegal aliens in the country for more than a decade now. In promoting the study, the Post’s Jerry Markon wrote that there is somehow a “nearly   decline” in illegal immigration “that has the potential to reshape the debate over reforming the nation’s immigration system. ”  Markon went on: The total undocumented immigrant population of 10. 9 million is the lowest since 2003, says the report from the Center for Migration Studies, a New York think tank. The number of undocumented immigrants has fallen each year since 2008, the report says, driven primarily by a steady decline in illegal migrants from Mexico. Sharper declines from South America and Europe have contributed to the overall numbers, the report says, even as illegal immigration from Central America  —   where families with children have flocked across the southwest border in recent months  —   is on the rise. But Coulter has debunked this type of narrative promoted by the left and media before. As Coulter says in Adios America, her latest bestselling book on immigration which came out right before Donald Trump’s rise to prominence in the 2016 GOP presidential primaries last summer, the government estimates the number of illegal aliens based on census surveys. But, as she says: “People who have left their families, paid huge sums of money to smugglers, trekked thousands of miles, and broken American law to enter this country don’t have much incentive to fill out questionnaires from the U. S. government. ” Demonstrating the government’s usual brilliance, Coulter’s Adios America notes that the census “tried to account for the reluctance of illegal aliens to answer government surveys by adding 10 percent to their population estimate. Guess where they got 10 percent? From another survey of illegals. In 2001, the University of California asked   residents of Los Angeles if they had taken the recent census. Ten percent said ‘no.’ But almost 40 percent refused to take that survey. ” Meanwhile, as far back as 1990, Coulter writes, anthropologist Maxine Margolis found “that the Brazilian consulate counted 100, 000 Brazilians living in New York City, while the Brazilian foreign office put the number at 230, 000. That same year, the 1990 census reported that only 9, 200 Brazilians lived in New York City. ” The efforts by the leftist Center for Migration Studies —  and the complicit Washington Post —  couldn’t be clearer. Markon himself wrote in the Post that the effort here seems to be to undermine Donald Trump ahead of the primaries. Markon wrote: With its release as voting nears in the 2016 presidential primaries, the   document could impact the fiery debate over immigration unfolding on the campaign trail. Republican candidates, led by Donald Trump, have portrayed the border as overwhelmed by illegal immigrants who must be kept out by a massive wall the New York developer proposes to build. President Obama and Democratic candidates say the border has never been more secure and call for comprehensive immigration reform to naturalize immigrants already here. This all comes on the heels of a new bombshell report from the Department of Homeland Security that shows there are nearly half a million illegal aliens inside America who overstayed visas for temporary work matters or for tourism.