Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg  —   who was appointed to the court by President Bill Clinton  —   issued a statement on Thursday saying she regrets her “ ” remarks about presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump. [“On reflection, my recent remarks in response to press inquiries were   and I regret making them,” Ginsburg stated on Thursday. “Judges should avoid commenting on a candidate for public office. In the future I will be more circumspect. ”  Ginsburg had called Trump “a faker,” among other things. “He has no consistency about him,” the    previously stated about Trump. “He says whatever comes into his head at the moment. He really has an ego.   …     How has he gotten away with not turning over his tax returns? The press seems to be very gentle with him on that. ” “I can’t imagine what this place would be  —   I can’t imagine what the country would be  —   with Donald Trump as our president,” she stated in an interview with the New York Times on Monday. Trump reacted to Ginsburg’s statement on Twitter Wednesday morning, saying, “Justice Ginsburg of the U. S. Supreme Court has embarrassed all by making very dumb political statements about me. Her mind is shot  —   resign!” Trump continued throughout the day: Is Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg going to apologize to me for her misconduct? Big mistake by an incompetent judge!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 13, 2016,  Even the @NYTimes and @WashingtonPost Editorial Boards condemned Justice Ginsburg for her ethical and legal breach. What was she thinking?  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 13, 2016,  Legal experts criticized Ginsburg’s comments to the media. Breitbart News’ Joel Pollak noted that Ginsburg would likely have to recuse herself in any case involving Donald Trump’s presidential campaign. In a hypothetical repeat of Bush v. Gore, Ginsburg’s comments would mean a   majority for Trump  —   assuming, as liberals did in 2000, that the justices simply vote to help the party whose president nominated them. (The Scalia seat remains vacant.)  