MONTGOMERY, Ala.  —   As governor, Robert Bentley would quote the Bible before the Alabama Legislature and say that God had elevated him to the State Capitol. In his dermatology practice, in the city where he was a Baptist deacon, he sometimes witnessed to patients. And when he was a   candidate for statewide office, his campaign headquarters were often filled with volunteers from local churches. This is a state that knows well how mixing faith and politics can lead to disappointment. When Mr. Bentley on Monday resigned from office and pleaded guilty to two misdemeanors in the wake of the sex scandal that ended his   marriage, his downfall reflected both enduring and contemporary challenges for evangelical voters. To many of the conservative Christians who unexpectedly propelled Mr. Bentley, a Republican, into power, his demise was a dispiriting setback in an age when they feel their values are under siege. “We’re sorry for him and his family, but at the same time, he made his choices and did what he did,” said the Rev. Joe Godfrey, the executive director of the Alabama Citizens Action Program, a   group that holds substantial influence in the Legislature. “I don’t know that people feel had I think they feel disappointed. Here was a man who had a chance to accomplish great things, and he failed. ” But others said it had become clear that for conservative Christians, the cultural and political issues that define modern conservative politics mattered at least as much as moral piety. That was why, they suggested, Mr. Bentley was able to cling to his job for nearly 13 months after his reputation as a paragon of probity came under fire. “The idea that moral hypocrisy hurts you among evangelical voters is not true, if you’re sound on all of the fundamentals,” said Wayne Flynt, an ordained Baptist minister and one of Alabama’s   historians. “Being sound on the fundamentals depends on what the evangelical community has decided the fundamentals have become. At this time, what is fundamental is hating liberals, hating Obama, hating abortion and hating   marriage. ” When Mr. Bentley ran for governor in 2010, Christian voters saw extraordinary promise in the obscure lawmaker from Tuscaloosa who liked to tell people about how Bear Bryant, the revered University of Alabama football coach, had been one of his patients. He seemed oddly ordinary, the politician who was thought to be   for a state increasingly frustrated by decades of corruption in Montgomery. “People were looking for something that was more grandfatherly, something that was more wise and trustworthy and less politically slick,” said Angi Stalnaker, who was Mr. Bentley’s campaign manager. “They wanted someone that they could see themselves having Sunday dinner with, and, of the candidates in 2010, Robert Bentley was the one you could see inviting over for fried chicken and cornbread. ” He won that election, and then another in 2014. But Dianne Bentley filed for divorce the next year. Months later, an ousted state official accused Mr. Bentley of having an affair with Rebekah Caldwell Mason, a top aide and former beauty pageant contestant whom he had taught in Sunday school in Tuscaloosa. Lurid audio recordings became public, and on Friday, a special counsel concluded that the governor had committed an array of misdeeds to try to cover up the “inappropriate relationship” that had led to Mr. Bentley and Ms. Mason leaving their congregation. Ms. Mason declined to comment, and the governor quit hours after impeachment hearings began. His abrupt exit  —   he failed to mention to reporters that his resignation was a condition of his plea agreement  —   spurred a new round of pain for Christians who had spent years supporting him. “I think he’s just like all of us: He’s made of flesh and bone, and he’s temptable,” said the Rev. John Killian, a former president of the Alabama Baptist State Convention. “I believe it was the devil, and I believe the devil knew he was bagging big game. ” Mr. Bentley’s public demise, Mr. Killian said, held lessons. “There is nothing Governor Bentley’s done that any of us couldn’t do if we’re not on guard,” he said. “People always saw him as a godly man. They’re disappointed, yes, but honest people need to realize we’re all susceptible. ” Some evangelical voters, who are part of one of Alabama’s most powerful voting blocs, have already begun considering whether they should change how they scrutinize candidates after a governor they regard as a bitter letdown. “I would hope they’d be more cautious,” said Roy S. Moore, who was suspended as chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court for his resistance to   marriage. “Sometimes, politicians take advantages of that attention to morality and they will profess things they don’t actually stand for. ” Mr. Moore, who was one of Mr. Bentley’s rivals in 2010 and is considering another run for governor, said that voters were willing to look beyond indiscretions that happened before politicians took office. Once in power, though, the standards shifted, he said. “Once you get into office, they’ll judge you,” said Mr. Moore, who draws much of his popularity from evangelical Christians. In Decatur, Bob Allen, a doctor, said he would be looking for candidates to take actions effectively proving their religious convictions. “Those issues are important to me, but their record and character and integrity over time are more important than what they say,” said Dr. Allen, who twice voted for Mr. Bentley and said he hoped the former governor would repent. “Things like this are going to happen because people are imperfect,” he said. Even before Mr. Bentley’s resignation, there was a budding movement among religious conservatives here to combat malfeasance in state government that has extended well beyond the governor’s office. Mr. Bentley’s departure could strengthen that effort, Mr. Flynt said, even as he noted that he was startled by the   response of evangelicals to the governor’s troubles. “Secular culture is eroding evangelicalism to the point where it takes us one full year to get rid of the governor because of all of these conflicting pressures,” he said. “He would have been out the door in an hour in the 1940s. ”