Liberal filmmaker Michael Moore and the Reverend Jesse Jackson will host a     rally in support of Hillary Clinton in Flint, Michigan Monday night, with less than 24 hours remaining until polls open on Election Day. [Moore wrote on his Twitter account Sunday that he and Jackson would appear at Flint’s Whiting Auditorium at 7 p. m. Monday night for a rally, which will include a screening of the filmmaker’s latest   Trump project, Michael Moore in TrumpLand.  “The fact that Donald Trump is within striking distance of winning the state of Michigan is a   call to all decent people,” the documentarian said in a statement announcing the rally. “We must have a significant turnout on Tuesday for Hillary in order to repudiate the hate from the Trump campaign and move Flint and the country forward. ” Moore added that he hopes thousands of area residents will show up to the rally, and said the city of Flint was a prime example of “what happens when Republican policies are set in motion to harm people. ” “[Hillary Clinton] has repeatedly made it clear that Flint and its people will be at the top of her agenda,” the filmmaker added. Moore released his TrumpLand film last month with almost no advance warning, to middling reviews. The film is based on a   play about the election that the progressive activist performed over the course of two nights at a small theater in a heavily Republican corner of Ohio. Shortly after the film premiered, a clip in which Moore discusses Donald Trump’s appeal to   Americans went viral online, helped in part by Trump himself, leading some to believe the the filmmaker was backing the Republican candidate for the presidency. Moore has repeatedly predicted that Trump will win the election. Meanwhile, Jackson spoke in support of Clinton at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia in July, and has previously accused Trump of using racist campaign tactics. “I am honored to join Michael Moore and return to Flint, a city that has gripped the conscience of a nation on more than one occasion,” Jackson said in a statement. “No one must stay home this Tuesday. To do so would dishonor all who have come before us. ” The   rally comes as the Clinton campaign has hosted a flurry of   rallies featuring celebrities from the entertainment world, including Jay Z and Beyoncé, Jennifer Lopez, Katy Perry and Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James. Clinton is set to appear at an   rally Monday night alongside veteran rockers Bruce Springsteen and Jon Bon Jovi at Philadelphia’s Independence Hall.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum