A    college student in Michigan has been charged with hazing, accused of smearing peanut butter on the face of a friend who had a serious peanut allergy, the student’s lawyer said on Wednesday. The student, Dale Merza, turned himself in to the authorities after a warrant was issued last week. He pleaded not guilty in Isabella County District Court on Friday, his lawyer, Bruce Leach, said in a telephone interview. The charge, a misdemeanor that can carry a   jail sentence, was reported in the Detroit Free Press and other news outlets this week. Mr. Merza, who was released on a personal recognizance bond, is a student at Central Michigan University, Mr. Leach said. He was charged in connection with the incident that took place in October at an   party. There a fellow student, Andrew Seely, who was 19 at the time, passed out, he said. He woke up with peanut butter on his face and a severe reaction that his mother said  could have been deadly. Mr. Leach said no one at the party knew that Mr. Seely had a peanut allergy. He gave no further explanation of what happened that night. “This is a total misunderstanding,” he said. “It was only learned the day after the incident that he had an allergy. I don’t think this had anything to do with hazing. ” “It was a big misunderstanding that has been blown out of proportion,” he added. The episode came to light in March, when the police in Mount Pleasant, a city of about 26, 000 people two and half hours northwest of Detroit, said they were investigating the encounter involving   members of the Alpha Chi Rho fraternity. Mr. Seely’s mother, Teresa Seely, contacted the police after her son told his family what happened, and she posted a photograph of his distorted face on Facebook. “He could have been killed,” she wrote, adding that he carried medicine to counteract accidental exposure to peanuts. Ms. Seely wrote in the post that her son had passed out at the party. When he came to, he discovered that his eyes, nose and lips had ballooned because peanut butter had been rubbed on his face, she wrote. He was treated at a campus clinic. Mr. Seely’s father, Paul Seely, told CBS News last month that it could have been fatal had the peanut butter gotten into his mouth. The national headquarters of Alpha Chi Rho said in a statement last month that it had revoked the chapter’s charter in 2011 because of hazing, adding that those involved in Mr. Seely’s case “were not members” of the fraternity and “acted independently. ” Citing privacy rules, Heather L. Smith, a spokeswoman for the university, said on Wednesday she could not comment on a possible university investigation into violations of the student code of conduct. Peanut allergy is one of the most common causes of severe allergic attacks, according to the Mayo Clinic. The allergy can cause a potentially   condition in which the blood pressure drops and airways narrow, blocking breathing.