In just three hours, more than 170, 000 viewers tuned in to watch the global premiere of Clinton Cash, the motion picture adaptation of the New York Times   book Clinton Cash, authored by Government Accountability Institute President and Breitbart Senior    Peter Schweizer. [The film, directed by M. A. Taylor and produced by Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon, was promoted  —   and praised  —   by both sides of the political stratum. Veterans for Bernie Sanders, a group with over 50, 000 likes, took to its Facebook page to encouraged its followers to watch and share the film.   Reaction to the Clinton Cash movie poured in swiftly. Viewers from multiple social media platforms praised the film and urged their followers to watch it. Many Facebook users expressed a mixture of fury and disbelief at the facts laid out in the   film. Here’s what committed Sanders supporters had to say:   “Clinton Cash feature documentary” was trending on Facebook at the time of publication as reaction to the film continued to accelerate on the platform on Saturday. One commenter said Clinton Cash “shows the cesspool of corruption that the Clinton Foundation is. ” Another commenter fumed, “Dear God. I thought I was done being shocked by the Clinton darkness. Thank you. Keep speaking out. Please. ”   After its global premiere, reaction to Clinton Cash had skyrocketed on Twitter. Gotta say #DNCLeaks are nothing compared with the #ClintonCash movie, now published in full on @YouTube https:  .  #DNCLeak,  —   BerningBoomer (@boomer4bernie) July 24, 2016,  140 characters is not enough to describe the emotions I felt watching this movie. It’s going to haunt me for a long time #ClintonCash,  —   Chris Bothma (@bothma_chris) July 24, 2016,  Clinton Cash movie on youtube lays out theft by Clintons, who we trusted to act for America. Now we need to make it right. Put em away. #MAGA,  —   Chris Schey (@ScheyChris) July 24, 2016,  #clintoncash movie, if 10% is true, is utterly shocking and heartbreaking our leaders could be so morally bankrupt #DNCleak #berniemustdisavow,  —   Shizzrock (@Shizzrockula) July 24, 2016,  #ClintonCash great book now the movie is out please get educated then get active ‼️‼️‼️‼️‼️‼️ pic. twitter.   —   clickclick718 (@AAGMONEY1) July 24, 2016,  after the movie 13 Hours, the documentary Clinton Cash, and the DNC emails leaked, how could anyone vote for Hillary,  —   Gianni Riga (@griga_20) July 24, 2016,  That’s just tip of the iceberg re: Clinton Foundation! See movie ”Clinton Cash” ! Most corrupt couple in History🐉Ǵ🕷👎 https:  .   —   WineGuy (@WineGuyVenice) July 24, 2016,  . @BreitbartNews THANK YOU for airing #ClintonCash  movie this weekend.  HUGE   that everyone in the US should watch, ASAP.  —   Sandra (@LittleTigerOne) July 24, 2016,  CLINTON CASH OFFICIAL DOCUMENTARY MOVIE ( FULL ) https:  .  Anyone who supports Hillary Clinton has no moral compass.  —   Freedom Speaks (@Freedom_Speaks_) July 24, 2016,  https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Rustam Nizamov (@NizamovRus) July 24, 2016,  Clinton Cash exposes the disturbing pattern of   speaking fees to Bill Clinton and donations to the Clinton Foundation from foreign contributors, which conspicuously coincided with favors for those closest to the Clintons and their foundation donors while Hillary Clinton served as Secretary of State. The Clinton Cash movie will air again on Sunday, July 24 at 2:00 pm (EST) and again at 8:00 pm (EST).   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson