Consider the chicken. Consider each part of the chicken. Consider eating each part of the chicken, one after another, grilled over charcoal at a yakitori restaurant called Torishin. Dark neck meat first, gathered in a ruffle around a bamboo skewer. When stuck to its long root of bone, the neck is picky business to eat, but it is full of flavor when it is pared away and the outer bits are singed over charcoal and the fat starts to spill over the rest. Now the tenderloin. Many tenderloins come to an ignominious end as “tenders,” encased in bread crumbs in the   fingers of a toddler. But grilled lightly, so they firm up without scorching, they run with delicate pink juices. Livers, of course, are seared very fast so they don’t get leathery. The rich, red insides are as soft as yogurt. They take well to a few grains of ground sansho pepper, enough to spark a slow buzz on the tongue. So do the hearts, done   like steak. On the bird’s back, above the tail feathers, are the oysters. At Torishin they go under their French name,  ’   —   “a fool leaves it. ” They are grilled with their skin, which puckers and hisses and goes from creamy blue to gold. For all I know the first yakitori chefs in Japan had nothing but efficiency in mind when they speared each anatomical bit on its own skewer.   livers can be pulled from the grill to make space, while other pieces take their time. In the hands of the attentive chefs at Torishin, this technique produces something beyond convenience. Cooked separately, each part has a different pleasure to offer. Some you chew, and some you crackle. Some have cerebral appeal, others call to instinct. The house style is sensitive to timing, averse to charring and careful with seasoning. The chicken is salted, brushed with a sauce called tare, which is less sweet at Torishin than at some other yakitori specialists, and grilled about an inch above   sticks of binchotan, a Japanese charcoal. The cooks wave bamboo fans at the fire when it needs a boost. Sitting on the tables and counters are vaguely humanoid gourds filled with sansho and the spice blend shichimi, as well as pitchers of soy sauce. “Which skewers are good with soy?” I asked Atsushi Kono, the chef, one night when he was tending the coals. His head bobbed noncommittally before he said, “It’s there for people who think they want it. ” Right, then. No soy. With minimalist cooking, the distance between dull and delicious can sometimes be measured in grains of salt. This became clear during my only meal at Torishin’s original location, on First Avenue in the 60s. There were many skewers. None of them seemed to have been seasoned. Even the pickled cucumbers and daikon that showed up at the start of the meal seemed to be under orders not to draw any attention to themselves. I knew that some people revered the restaurant, so I just figured that it fell into one of my blind spots. When Torishin moved to its current address in Hell’s Kitchen in 2015, I did not exactly rush over on my hoverboard. In fact, I didn’t make it there until last fall, a delay I regretted as soon as I had unskewered my first lump of chicken. Whatever had been missing from the chicken before was there, and it’s been there each time I’ve gone back. (I still think the pickles need more pep, though.) To the left as you enter is a small bar. The bartenders spend the quiet hours whittling big ice cubes into spheres, with knives. These rough globes are plopped into tumblers of shochu, and if you want to learn about this distilled spirit, Torishin is a fine place to start. The sake list is compact but varied. The few wines come from big, obvious names. At the end of a winding corridor is a   dining room. The mezzanine might be the spot for privacy. The lower space is more active, with seating at tables or around a   counter that hugs the open kitchen and a grill, the depth of a single skewer. If you know your favorite bird bits, ordering à la carte is simple enough. The menu is helpfully illustrated, from neck to tail. All but one of the skewers is under $10, and the package of seven chicken skewers plus three vegetables is a good deal at $65. But Torishin always puts me in the mood for surprises, so I like to ask for an omakase menu. The grill cooks serve up a mix of vegetables (the mushrooms are a particular treat, and I don’t think it’s possible to grill zucchini better than Torishin does) white meat (the piece wrapped in a shiso leaf and dabbed with salty plum paste is a nearly perfect bite) dark meat (chicken legs can be subdivided in more ways than you might think) and curiosities called “special skewers. ” This is where you will find the oysters, the kidneys, the nugget of meat from the base of the wing, the wrinkly and fatty neck skin, the smooth and supple belly skin. Most of the surprises have been positive, like “knee gristle. ” What about “main artery”? The nicest thing I can honestly say about this blood vessel, which ties the heart to some other vital organ, is that it is, in fact, edible. If hunger still calls after you have stripped all the bamboo sticks and left them standing in the ceramic cup in front of you, there is an excellent remedy in the form of  . A homey dish of chicken and egg over white rice,   can be filling or it can be almost ethereal, as it is at Torishin. To one side of the passage from bar to dining room is a narrow nook behind curtains. Inside is an   bar, called the Select Counter, where Mr. Kono presides over extended menus that borrow from the kaiseki tradition. One recent meal began with a tiny simmered octopus with peppery sansho leaves. Sashimi followed. Chicken breast was steamed in cherry leaves and served with cucumber wheels and fresh shoots of spring ginger the flavor was lovely and transient, one of those Japanese miracles of putting the mood of a season on the plate. The $150 menu came with a complete fusillade of skewers as well as a choice of grilled luxury items: either Kumamoto beef (not as meltingly rich as it could have been) or king crab leg (smeared with some funky stuff from inside the crab’s head, and completely delicious). If Mr. Kono had kept cooking all night, I would have been happy, but to experience Torishin you don’t need to spend $150 and a couple of hours. Just a few skewers are enough to expand your sense of what’s possible in the department of chicken. Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.