A conservative U. S. Senate candidate in Colorado will launch a provocative new ad that compares illegal immigration to an overflowing toilet and Washington dysfunction to a proctology exam while promising if he can’t deliver substantial results by the end of his first term, he’ll throw himself out of office. [The ad’s provocative and interesting nature could put the   campaign of GOP businessman Robert Blaha —  the founder of Colorado   Human Capital Management —  in the national spotlight in much the same way similar ads from now Sen. Joni Ernst ( ) did in Iowa’s 2014 U. S. Senate GOP primary.  “If your plumber doesn’t stop the flow, you get a new plumber,” a narrator says over images of an exploding toilet in the new ad, which Blaha’s campaign provided exclusively to Breitbart News ahead of its public release. WATCH THE AD TITLED ‘PRODUCT GUARANTEE’ The   ad, Blaha campaign staff confirm to Breitbart News exclusively, will air during the Denver Broncos AFC divisional playoff game all throughout Colorado on Sunday evening, followed by another two weeks of cable airplay throughout the state. At 4:40 p. m. on Sunday, Peyton Manning and the Broncos will host Ben Roethlisberger and the Pittsburgh Steelers at Sports Authority Field at Mile High. “If your doctor brings you pain, you get a new doctor,” the narrator continues, as images of a doctor conducting a   proctology exam on a patient appear on screen. “So why on earth do we keep sending bozos like Michael Bennet back to Washington when they fail to get anything done?” Blaha says, appearing on screen with the Rocky Mountains behind him before images of incumbent Democrat Sen. Michael Bennet ( ) as a bobble head doll appear on screen. More bobble head politicians —  including Nancy Pelosi, Barack Obama, and even a     Harry Reid —  appear next as Blaha tells viewers: “Bennet and Obama have failed to turn this economy around and Sen. Bennet wants us to send him back to D. C.?” “I have a better idea,” Blaha, appearing on screen again, says. “Send me to Washington and if I can’t make a difference, I’ll voluntarily come back after just one term. Cut the deficit, slash illegal immigration in half, fix our horrific tax system —  or I’ll come home and help find somebody that can. That’s my product guarantee. ” Blaha confirmed to Breitbart News that his goal is to end all illegal immigration, but the ad promise of a cut by at least half should be a reasonable and measurable minimum goal by the end of his first term in Washington. “We must end illegal immigration, period,” Blaha told Breitbart News. “We have to demand accountability from Congress, and make them provide metrics that show they’re serious about this problem. That’s why I’ve made a commitment: if we can’t cut illegal immigration by 50% in my first term, I won’t run for  . I don’t care about getting   I care about saving the country. That’s my guarantee. ” A longer version of the ad to be distributed as a web video, also provided exclusively to Breitbart News, walks viewers through Blaha’s story —  quoting several members of his family. WATCH THE LONGER VERSION OF THE VIDEO: Blaha jumped into the Senate race on Thursday, joining a seemingly crowded field. Blaha, the Denver Post wrote, is “one of five prominent candidates vying for the Republican nomination and the chance to challenge Democratic U. S. Sen. Michael Bennet. ” “He is the first putting big money into the race, buying $47, 000 in TV ads that will air on Fox News in the next two weeks in Denver, Colorado Springs and Grand Junction,” The Post wrote. “Another $9, 000, as the Post first reported earlier this month, bought a   ad that will air after the Denver Broncos playoff game Sunday. ” Blaha has a crack political team at his disposal too, with consultant Jordan Gehrke —  who’s worked on major political campaigns including the winning U. S. Senate bid in 2014 by now Sen. Ben Sasse ( ) —  and campaign manager Katey Price. The infamous   Fred Davis —  who’s been behind many memorable and creative television ads in recent years —  is working with Blaha’s team as well. Bennet, the incumbent Senator and a Democrat, is extraordinarily vulnerable in a general election. He was one of the members of the “Gang of Eight,” who along with Sens. Marco Rubio ( ) John McCain ( ) Jeff Flake ( ) Lindsey Graham ( ) Chuck Schumer ( ) Dick Durbin ( ) and the   Bob Menendez ( ) pushed an amnesty bill that wouldn’t secure the border through the U. S. Senate. That bill has haunted every single one of its members since they joined the organization, with the exception of Schumer, who has risen from the ashes of the group to become the likely next Democratic Leader in the U. S. Senate when Sen. Harry Reid ( ) retires at the end of this year. What’s more, just last year with now Sen. Cory Gardner ( ) Republicans proved they can win statewide in Colorado —  and with a strong conservative who’s willing to aggressively criticize Bennet where he’s weakest, immigration, Republicans might just pull this one off too.