Breitbart Senior Editor Milo Yiannopoulos has made an open offer to Girls actress Lena Dunham to pay her full, first class,   ticket to Canada now that Donald Trump is the  . [Many liberal celebrities made promises during the election cycle to leave the country if Republican candidate Donald J. Trump was elected. Now that he is the   it seems as if many are backing out of their commitment. Comedian Amy Schumer has openly stated that she won’t be leaving the country via a lengthy Instagram post, featuring a previously debunked photo of Donald Trump.   First of all the interview where I said I would move was in London and was said in jest. Not that anyone needs more than a headline to count something as official news. Anyone saying pack your bags is just as disgusting as anyone who voted for this racist homophobic openly disrespectful woman abuser. Like the rest of us I am grieving today. My heart is in a million pieces. My heart breaks for my niece and my friends who are pregnant bringing children into the world right now. Like everyone else I am horrified that people believed these bumper sticker slogans filled with hate he spewed. People who voted for him you are weak. You are not just misinformed. You didn’t even attempt information. You say lock her up and you know something about the word email but what was in the emails? You have no clue. Well I’ll tell you if you were able to read this far through the holes in your sheet. They said nothing incriminating. Nothing. She dedicated her entire life to public service and got our children Heath care and education without discrimination. he didn’t pay his workers. Started a fake college. Ripped people off. Never paid his taxes and sexually assaulted women and on and on She would have taken care of us. I personally would have had to pay higher taxes. All the celebrities backing her would have. People asked how much I was paid to stand with her. Nothing. None of us were paid a dollar. We would have had to pay a lot more because we are fortunate enough to make a high income. But we all wanted to do it to take care of the people in need. She was fighting to take care of you kicking and screaming babies. Yelling about emails you know nothing about and not liking her clothes or her hair she wanted to protect you even you. Well you’ve gotten what you asked for and now you can watch the sky open up. Literally. I am furious. I cry for her and for all the smart people I love who know what’s right and I cry for you people who fell for shiny hats and reality catch phrases. She would have protected you. Today we grieve tomorrow we begin again. Yes this quote is fake but it doesn’t matter, A photo posted by @amyschumer on Nov 9, 2016 at 8:18am PST,  “I know a lot of people have been threatening to do this, but I really will [leave America]. I know a lovely place in Vancouver and I can get my work done from there,” Dunham said in April of this year. In a post to his official Facebook page, MILO stated that he had instructed his travel agent to reach out to Dunham on his behalf. MILO says that this offer is genuine and he will indeed pay for Dunham’s   ticket to any Canadian destination of her choosing. Dunham has not yet responded to MILO’s extremely generous offer.  Lucas Nolan is a reporter for Breitbart Tech covering issues of free speech and online censorship. Follow him on Twitter @LucasNolan_ or email him at lnolan@breitbart. com