The gas station at the corner of Lafayette and East Houston Streets in SoHo is an industrial outpost in a Manhattan neighborhood of luxury lofts and even more luxurious shopping. It has existed on the corner for decades  —   first as Gaseteria, later as BP, but nearly always selling gas. For cabdrivers, it was a way station in an unruly city, where they could fill up, use the restroom, or kneel for afternoon prayers on one of the communal kilims the owner let them keep stowed beside the convenience mart. It closed on Thursday, to be replaced by a    luxury office building, turning some four square miles at the southern end of the borough into a gasoline desert. Today, the only reminder that this stretch of SoHo was once a forest of filling stations known as Gasoline Alley is a coffee shop of the same name that sells   coffee beans from Burundi. The closing of the inelegant station, its shabby convenience store invariably full of drivers dancing in place while waiting in line for the restroom, has a familiar feeling. As New York City’s molten property values have made selling off a parcel of land often more profitable than operating the grocery, hardware store or gas station sitting on it, the gas station’s passing appears to be the latest example of a common trope. And while Amazon and FreshDirect may fill the hole when the corner store goes condo, there is no doubt it is getting harder in Manhattan to get many of the basics that make life livable. What happens now if you are downtown and the needle is on E? “It’s not going to be easy for the drivers, and the people who are using this facility,” Sunkanmi Alaka, a cabdriver, said as he waited for the restroom a few days before the station closed. “You’re going to travel miles before you see a gas station. ” Today there is not a single operating gas station left on the city’s East Side from the southern tip of the island to 23rd Street, a chunk of Manhattan that includes some of the most highly trafficked portions of the city, like the   transverses between the bridges to the east and Holland Tunnel to the west, and the   corridors of Wall Street and NoHo. With the exception of a small station in the West Village, the West Side is similarly parched. In Manhattan, there are 50 gas stations that can be used by the public, according to the Fire Department. Over the past eight years, about 30 have disappeared. A 2014 analysis by The Wall Street Journal said there were just 12 below 96th Street, but several have closed since then. The math makes the decision to pack up shop and build simple. “If you own the gas station and you own the land, and you can get 30 or 40 million dollars for that, you could run that gas station for 100 years and never make that kind of money,” said Ralph Bombardiere, executive director of the New York State Association of Service Stations and Repair Shops, which lobbies on behalf of the industry in New York. The gas station that closed Thursday was owned by Marcello Porcelli, whose father bought the corner plot for $100, 000 about four decades ago and built up the Gaseteria brand, whose    signs became a fixture of the city’s 1970s streetscape. In the early 2000s his father’s company, LargaVista, shifted its goals to prioritize developing its more than 60 parcels citywide, “in order to maximize its extremely valuable portfolio of prime locations,” according to its website. LargaVista has formed a partnership with Related, a development company, to build the office building, a   $200 million project of zigzagging glass designed by the architect Rick Cook. “Everyone is nostalgic when you look at something that’s been there for a while, maybe even a gas station,” said Lisa Linden, a spokeswoman for LargaVista, which is Spanish for “long view. ” “There are many things that people need, the question is, Is this location going forward?” she added. The building will bring jobs to the city, Ms. Linden said, adding: “Cabdrivers will be dropping people off there. So. ” For many, the closing is a nonissue, including those who rely on the subway system or believe New York is still too  . Many neighbors are happy to see the station, which they see as an eyesore, go, including members of Community Board 2, which approved the new building. Board members did not respond to requests for an interview. Woolworth’s and the Gristedes supermarket chain are among the   businesses that have sold as the value of their land has eclipsed profits. But while disappearing grocery stores have provoked public outcry and even street demonstrations, the loss of one charmless gas station  —   even if it is the last one for miles  —   seems to induce little clamor beyond the cabdriver community. Maqsood Ahmad, 49, a former cabdriver who owns Little Lahore, a restaurant on Crosby Street next to the gas station that has sold Pakistani cuisine to a mostly cabby clientele for two decades, believes gas stations have evaporated unchecked in part because their most loyal clients are   immigrants who often feel voiceless. The city, he said, needs “the lower people,   people and   people. ” “They need all the mix,” he added. “But right now they are running on the path that they need only money. ” Mr. Ahmad’s rent for his    subterranean restaurant has risen from $1, 100, when he started in 1995, to $10, 000 a month today. He will have to close, he believes, when the cabs no longer have a pit stop. Gas station attrition is widespread. A decade ago, there were nearly 300, 000 gas stations nationwide there are now fewer than 140, 000, according to Michael J. Fox, the executive director of the Gasoline and Automotive Service Dealers of America, the industry association for New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Consolidation is partly responsible for the decline, as are new environmental regulations that make updating underground gas reservoirs a burdensome expense, he said, but in increasingly expensive cities, like New Canaan and Greenwich, in Connecticut, and San Francisco, booming real estate values are most often to blame. Mr. Fox’s organization has fought for states to pass laws, or to add tax incentives for stations that stay, that might thwart the decline. “The Manhattan circumstance is going to keep spreading,” he said. “I remember one time when Brooklyn was considered the garbage dump, now Brooklyn is the new Manhattan. You want to get the law passed so that it doesn’t come to be that within a   radius you have no service stations at all because of the real estate situation. ” The mood at the gas station a few days before its closing was bitter. “I worry about my mayor: Where is his driver going to fill up the gas?” Janusz Krawczynski, 65, said as he sat in his cab in the station’s lot, his voice loaded with sarcasm. “Right now, any place he goes, he’s late,” he said, referring to the mayor’s   history of tardiness. “The driver is going to have to go to fill up the gas in New Jersey, Brooklyn, the Bronx,” he said. “He’ll never go to a meeting!” Not all see that vision as bad. In the West Village, where Athanasios Hondros, who goes by Tommy, runs a   Mobil station, business has been booming, and though people have come with envelopes of cash, he said, the station is not for sale. “Doesn’t bother me,” he said. “I plan on being the last gas station left. ”