Senior Donald Trump policy adviser Stephen Miller said that Marco Rubio is proud of his work on the   Gang of 8 bill and will never apologize for it. [“The perfect question for Mr. Rubio is: Why can’t you say ‘I’m sorry’?” Trump adviser Stephen Miller told host Alex Marlow on Breitbart News Saturday on   Channel 125.  “The fact that he’s never said these two words tells you everything you need to know about where he wants to go in the future. And those two words are: ‘I’m sorry.’ Because he’s not. He’s not sorry for a second,” Miller said. “Because he believes to this day in everything that’s in the Gang of 8 bill and wants to be in the Oval Office so that he can implement everything in the Gang of 8 bill,” he concluded. Miller, a former senior staffer to Sen. Jeff Sessions, hammered Rubio at length for the Florida senator’s   of the Gang of 8 bill with Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer and others. Miller said that Rubio left Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) deportation officer Chris Crane out in the cold on behalf of powerful donors and special interests. Miller went on to say: You have to ask yourself, when you’re thinking about who you want to choose as a commander in chief, how you feel about somebody who is willing to give the Chamber of Commerce everything they want, and willing to give La Raza everything that they want, a notorious   group that’s pushed for a lot of   measures. Someone who’s willing to give Larry Ellison everything he wants, someone who’s willing to give Microsoft everything they want, someone who’s willing to give Mark Zuckerberg everything he wants, but is not willing to have an honest meeting with ICE officers? You have to ask yourself, what game was he playing? What was the goal? What would compel somebody to do that? Rubio always says when he’s asked about his involvement in the Gang of 8, ‘I wanted to get the best bill I could out of the Senate. The most conservative bill I could get.’ But as the story proves, that statement is materially false. Because at any point if he had said to Schumer, ‘I’m walking away unless you give Chris Crane what he wants. Unless you give ICE what it wants, I’m walking away.’ If he had done that, Schumer would have had no choice but to make those changes. And the fact that he didn’t do that is proof that every time Rubio says he tried to get the best bill out of the Senate, the unfinished part of that sentence is, ‘I tried to get donors and open borders interest groups the best bill for them out of the Senate.’ And Chris Crane would have been an impediment to delivering for these donors and interest groups. Because the reality is that Rubio is proud of the Gang of 8 bill. And his pride for the product, for the contents of the product, is so intense that he can’t bring himself to even pretend to be remorseful about it. He’ll never say, ‘You know, I said in English that it was security first. Then I said in Spanish it was legalization first. Probably shouldn’t have done that.’