More than one in ten women are interested in having virtual reality sex, according to a new report. [40% of the 2, 618 British women interviewed also believed that technology in the future will make sexual activity more “enjoyable,” while 15% admitted to currently using dating or hookup apps.  “Future technologies, like advanced wearable tech, virtual reality, intelligent sex toys and artificial skin, are becoming part of our everyday lives and redefining the way we enjoy sex,” said Dr Elina Berglund,   of Natural Cycles, who conducted the survey. The survey also revealed that 63% of women between the ages of 17 and 50 use, or would like to use, a sex toy, while 20% expressed interest in using social media for sexual arousal. In an interview with The Japan Times, adult video maker Kento Yoshida claimed that “VR is the best way to satisfy” sexual needs. “It will give us a new option in our sexual life,” he declared. “Getting a new option itself is great. ” In October, it was also reported that sexual conversations with artificial intelligence was on the rise. “This happens because people are lonely and bored  …     It is a symptom of our society,” said Robin Labs chief executive Ilya Eckstein, who claims that his company’s virtual assistant “Robin” is used by “teenagers and truckers without girlfriends” for up to 300 conversations a day. “As well as the people who want to talk dirty, there are men who want a deeper sort of relationship or companionship,” he continued, adding that some people wanted to talk “for no particular reason” and were just lonely or bored. In an interview with Breitbart Tech about the future of sex with robots, futurologist Dr. Ian Pearson said, “I think it will be fully emotional,” predicting that people will eventually spend “about the same as they do today on a decent   car. ” “Artificial intelligence is reaching human levels and also becoming emotional as well,” he continued. “So people will actually have quite strong emotional relationships with their own robots. In many cases that will develop into a sexual one because they’ll already think that the appearance of the robot matches their preference anyway, so if it looks nice and it has a superb personality too it’s inevitable that people will form very strong emotional bonds with their robots and in many cases that will lead to sex. ” Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.