The AP dug into some data from the Department of Health and Human Services and uncovered a truth kept hidden ever since the tidal wave of migrant children and youths began walking over America’s southern border in 2009: “The vast majority of immigrant children who arrive alone at the U. S. border are placed by the government with adults who are in the country illegally. ”[By “vast majority,” they mean eighty percent.   Federal data released to the Associated Press shows that “80 percent of the 71, 000 mostly Central American children placed between February 2014 and September 2015 were sent to sponsors who were not here legally,” the AP reported.  In half of the cases studied by the Associated Press, the kids were handed over to the child’s biological mother or father  —   who are highly likely to be illegal immigrants. If they were not illegal, their kids would be entitled to legally migrate into the United States. One percent of the kids were picked by migrants who are actually facing deportation hearings, which goes a long way toward demonstrating what a joke those hearings are. “Tens of thousands of children from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras began arriving on the border in Texas in 2014, overwhelming border officials, overflowing government shelters and further backlogging the country’s immigration courts,” the AP recalled.  “Once apprehended by border agents, the children were placed in the care of Health and Human Services until caseworkers could screen and select suitable sponsors for them. ” In effect, the United States government has become a human trafficking operation  —   the last link in the “coyote” chain for bringing people across the border, in defiance of our laws.   For what it is worth, a recent report shows that more than 140, 000 children and youths claiming to be aged 17 or below have crossed the border since 2009, according to a recent report by Congress’   research service.  It’s amusing to watch people pretending to be surprised that unaccompanied alien children are still being shipped across the border, when it has been made clear there is no cost for doing so, and Obama’s administration will take over from the coyotes as soon as the children meet a border guard.  “Since the president refuses to enforce our immigration laws, unlawful immigrants in the United States consistently pay criminal organizations along the border thousands of dollars to smuggle their family members into the United States,” as House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte ( ) put it. The administration insists that “potential sponsors must provide proof of identity and their relationship to the child and undergo screening and background checks. ”   What proof of identity? They’re illegal aliens. One of the reasons illegal immigration is dangerous is that it brings people in without proper documentation or extensive background checks.   The AP article implies that “home studies” can be a substitute for that “legal paperwork,” quoting a woman from El Salvador who worried that her lack of legal papers would keep her from picking up her son from a shelter, until “a government social worker quickly put her at ease. ” The Associated Press reports Rep. Zoe Lofgren ( ) insisted that “the government’s responsibility is to find a safe home and guardian for children,” regardless of the guardians’ legality.  No, the responsibility of the government of the United States is to defend the legal and territorial integrity of the United States, and no one who fails that simple test of civics should be allowed to work for the government in any capacity, much less sit in Congress.   The American people have the right to decide how many immigrants and refugees they will accept, where they will come from, and what conditions will be placed upon admission.   An impassioned case for bringing in more “ ” from El Salvador, or Syria, is perfectly acceptable, provided those making the case understand that the answer might be “No,” or that more refugees from El Salvador might mean less room for refugees from Syria.  Selectively ignoring American law to achieve an outcome U. S. citizens would not agree to voluntarily is not acceptable.   It’s also monstrous to incentivize a migration that involves consigning children to the hands of criminal gangs, and forces people to endure difficult, often dangerous passages across rough border territory.  If the American people voted to implement a more extensive refugee system for South American nations, we wouldn’t separate parents from their children, rely on gangsters for transportation across Mexico, or treat the whole thing like a game show where the prize is permanent undocumented residency. For years on end, government has told us that illegal aliens are invisible and untraceable, disappearing into the “shadows” where law enforcement can never find them.  It turns out illegals can be easily located when Obama wants to import more illegals into the country, and there is plenty of manpower for completing that task.   Enforcement and deportation?  Impossible and unthinkable.  Background checks and “home visits” to convey unaccompanied children from coyote smugglers to live with illegal aliens, who aren’t even their parents half the time? No problem.