Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 election.  Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton are both in North Carolina today. For Democrats, it all seems way too coincidental that President Barack Obama will make his first campaign appearance with Hillary Clinton on the day that FBI Director James Comey recommended to the Justice Department that no charges be filed against Clinton in her email scandal, effectively clearing Clinton of all wrongdoing. CNN reporter Michelle Kosinski even said the timing seemed to be “perfect” for Obama and Clinton. Though the mainstream press have incessantly maligned Trump throughout the election cycle, voters still think he is more honest and trustworthy than Clinton by a significant margin: From our latest   poll, the   numbers for Clinton v. Trump pic. twitter.   —   Carrie Dann (@CarrieNBCNews) July 5, 2016,  All times eastern.  —   9:45: Never Trump crowd whining that Trump may not give Republicans a majority. Newsflash: How have the “Never Trump” folks’s efforts to give the GOP a majority gone? Not too well. 9:00: Tomorrow’s New York Post: Front page of the @nypost tomorrow: (  @JoshuaHoyos) pic. twitter.   —   Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) July 6, 2016,  8:34: Trump says we’re going to make “great deals” for our country and doesn’t care if it is called “free” or “fair” trade. Trump seems reluctant to leave. Just walked up on stage after the rope line and stood there for a minute waving and gesturing to the crowd,  —   Holly Bailey (@hollybdc) July 6, 2016,  8:30: We need to get rid of the “fools” who are running our country. 8:29: Trump says Obama says “ISIL” just to get people mad. He says he knows plenty of people who wonder why Obama says “ISIL” instead of “ISIS” when “ISIS” is more accurate. Trump on ISIS and Obama previously calling them the ”JV team”: ”if that’s the JV team, I sure as hell don’t wanna see the varsity right?”  —   Ali Vitali (@alivitali) July 6, 2016,  Trump now mocking Obama for saying ISIL instead of ISIS. ”It’s almost like he does it to make people upset”  —   Nick Ochsner (@NickOchsnerWBTV) July 6, 2016,  8:27: Trump says “we need change” but “not Obama change. ” Trump says we need “fresh, tough, bold ideas” and “people who know what they’re doing” and “aren’t worried about political correctness. ” 8:20: Trump continues to hammer “Crooked Hillary” for her “Clinton Cash” shenanigans. Trump vows to take the country back from these “crooks” and “thieves” and “phony presidents. ” Trump marvels that Obama can take time off during all of these crises to campaign for Clinton. He again says Clinton has “unleashed” ISIS across the Middle East with her bad judgment and she won’t do anything about it because she’s a “weak” person and “doesn’t have the temperament. ” 8:11: Trump says we need someone with a “tough temperament” to fight the ISIS savages and fight for Americans on trade. Trump says whether it’s on   the last person leaders in other countries want to see as president is Donald J. Trump because “I’m going to be fighting for you” and “not for them. ” 8:10: Trump accuses the Clintons of bribing Lynch and says Lynch must be thinking that she may get four more years if she exonerates Clinton. 8:08: Trump continues to mock Clinton’s meeting with Lynch and their claims re: speaking about golf and grandchildren for 30 minutes: Trump is now speculating how long it takes to talk about grandchildren. ”Maybe 30 seconds.”  —   Gideon Resnick (@GideonResnick) July 6, 2016,  8:00: Trump says Clinton “put the entire country in danger”  and we now know she “lied to the country” when she said she did not send classified information on her server. Trump says Clinton was “grossly incompetent” and would be a “lousy president. ” Trump posits that she puts the lives of Americans at risk to pursue her “corrupt financial dealings. ” Trump says Clinton had her lawyers delete and “wipe away forever” 30, 000 emails like a “criminal with a guilty conscience. ” Trump says all of this “disqualifies” her from being President. 7:59: Trump: Today is best evidence our system is completely rigged. [And just as he is gaining some momentum, he then becomes a scatterbrain and talks about process. Gives himself credit for bringing up that the system is “rigged. ” Again, nobody cares about this stuff. They care about how Clinton gets to play by one set of rules while others play by another.] 7:58: Trump says “stupidity” is not a reason someone should be innocent. Trump says he doesn’t Clinton’s email scandal was a result of “stupidity. ” 7:57: Trump says “we’re a country of law” and other people have been hurt doing “so much less” than Hillary Clinton. He says Clinton’s exoneration is a “tragedy. ” He asks if this means we have to take back the punishment given to those who have done so much less because we are a country that is supposed to be fair. 7:55: Trump praises wounded   for having a better attitude about life than he does. He blasts Obama for announcing when America was going to pull out of Iraq. He again repeats his standard line about Iraq being the “Harvard” for terrorists. 7:50: Trump says “I’m your messenger” and the message is “we’re going to take our country back” and everybody will be included. Trump says “we’ve got to bring our country together. ” 7:47: Trump says it’s so much easier to do “phoners” and it’s a sign that “you’re hot. ” Nobody, especially the voters he needs to win, cares about this type of stuff except him. All this does is reveal his insecurity and incessant craving for  . 7:45: Trump says “we need unity” in the Republican Party. The crowd in Raleigh is really fired up tonight  —   and laughing at all of Donald Trump’s jokes. You can see him feeding off the energy.  —   Jenna Johnson (@wpjenna) July 5, 2016,  7:42: Trump mocks Obama for lecturing about climate   footprints while taking Air Force One to play golf in Hawaii while “our country is going to hell” and “ISIS is laughing at us. ” 7:40: Trump says Obama, like a carnival act, is having “a lot of fun. ” He says we need a President who is not “divisive” and is going to take care of the   community. He says Obama is “all talk, no action. ” He says we need a president who will  help Hispanics get jobs that they don’t have right now. 7:38: Clinton says Clinton’s “judgment is horrible. ” Trump says whether it’s ISIS or trade or borders or jobs, it’s going to be four  more years of the same. He says the “last thing we need is another Clinton” or an “  in the White House. ” Trump vows to bring jobs back to “our country” and it’s going to be “America, America, America first. ” 7:30: Trump mocks Bill Clinton, saying he “just  happened” to be on the same tarmac as Lynch. Trump starts talking about how many people thought Clinton was guilty. Then he changes his train of thought and again goes to his crutch and talks process minutiae that nobody cares about. He then blasts Clinton for wanting to admit Syrian refugees, which he says can be the “  Trojan horse. ” 7:25: Donald Trump blasts the “totally rigged” system but says we’re still happy to be together. “What a system,” he says. Trump introduces establishment GOP Sen. Bob Corker ( ) to make some rather bland remarks. Corker is reportedly being vetted to be Trump’s running mate. Corker says the reason that people love Donald Trump so much (hint: partly because he isn’t an establishment politician like Corker) is because Trump loves the people and wants the “best for you. ” 7:08: Miller says the question is why Clinton would risk so much to “stash and hide” all of her emails on the secret server. Miller says the answer is because if the public could ever see what she did in the light of day, her career would be “instantly over. ” He says it was a cover up from the scrutiny that would come if her actions ever saw the light of day. Miller asks voters if they are prepared to restore honest and decency back to government. 7:06: At Trump’s North Carolina rally, Senior Policy Adviser asks what would happen in your life if you did   of the things Clinton did. He points out there are one sets of rules for regular Americans and another for the rulers. He says the America people will be the “ultimate deciders” re: whether Clinton can get away with it. 6:35: Clinton’s largest event to date drew 7, 000. And she needed Obama to even get to that number. Trump and Sanders have routinely drawn tens of thousands at their rallies: Tuesday’s event with Obama was the largest of HRC’s campaign, per aides, who said the fire marshall counted 7, 000 in the room.  —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) July 5, 2016,  6:00: Dedicated Trump supporters in North Carolina: Watch the rally here: The   speeches before @realDonaldTrump takes the stage.  #WRAL #TrumpRally pic. twitter.   —   Lynda Loveland (@WRALLynda) July 5, 2016,  People in Raleigh, NC in line for Trump rally stick it out even when a hard rain starts. pic. twitter.   —   Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) July 5, 2016,    Waiting in line for Trump despite a heat index of 109!  Live reports at 4.  #WRAL pic. twitter.   —   Lynda Loveland (@WRALLynda) July 5, 2016,    5:45: Sarah Palin blasts “Never Trump” traitors: 5:39: Clinton to reportedly campaign during RNC convention: NEWS: Bucking tradition, Clinton will be campaigning during the RNC. One event at the AFSCME convention, the other at the NAACP convention.  —   Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 5, 2016,  4:23: Obama says this is “not a reality show. ” But Obama, who has gotten his message out to the masses in the defragmented media age by appearing with various YouTube stars and an array of local radio personalities and shock jocks during his presidency, knows full well the election is covered like a reality show. Obama says he wants to be “blunt” but if he really wanted to be blunt, he’d say he is voting for Clinton because he hates Trump. 4:20: Axelrod on Clinton’s “bobblehead” nod: Šomeone gas GOT to give @HillaryClinton an alternative maneuver to the bobblehead nod. Especially when she is being lavishly praised!  —   David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) July 5, 2016,  4:18: Obama, invoking tragedies like Newtown to push gun control, says “if you believe that too,” you have to vote for Clinton. Obama says Clinton can also fix our “broken immigration system. ” He slams Trump for planning to build a wall. [Tony Lee: Obama’s enthusiasm for Clinton is proof of how much he hates Trump.] 4:12: Obama refers to Trump as “the other guy. ” Obama: ”The other guy talks abt ‘Making America Great Again.’ America’s really great.. The rest of the world thinks we’re pretty darn great”  —   Holly Bailey (@hollybdc) July 5, 2016,  4:10: But voters trust Trump more on the economy: ”If you’re voting your pocketbook,” says @POTUS, ”this isn’t even a choice. ’Cause the other side has nothing to offer you.”  —   Mark Knoller (@markknoller) July 5, 2016,  4:00: Obama, in another    reference to Trump, says “everybody can Tweet” but nobody knows what it’s like to be President until they are sitting behind the desk in the Oval Office. Obama claims there has never been anyone —  man or woman —  more qualified than Hillary Clinton to be President. [Tony Lee: Hillary is like the eager high school student who pads her resume to make her the “most qualified” for Ivy League schools and excels on tests where people have to just regurgitate facts but lacks a core and will always do horribly when any test throws her a curve   critical thinking.] 3:55: Obama, invoking the late Ann Richards, says Clinton was like Ginger Rogers because she had to everything he did but also “backwards and in high heels. ” He says he has had a   seat to Clinton’s “judgment” [what does that say?] and toughness. Obama says Clinton was a “great” Secretary of State. President @BarackObama on @HillaryClinton: ”She was a great secretary of state.” pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) July 5, 2016,  3:50: Obama says he likes any excuse to come to North Carolina. He says he loves the people —  even those who aren’t voting for him are nice, he says. He says the state has some great food. He praises the state’s basketball culture. 3:48: Tony Lee: Hillary introducing Obama (not the other way around) tells you all you need to know about which candidate viscerally appeals more to the minority voters Clinton desperately needs to win the White House. Within 30 seconds of his speech, Obama, on the stump, shows how robotic and stiff Clinton is. 3:46: Newt to campaign with Trump in Ohio on Wed.: . @newtgingrich will campaign   @realDonaldTrump in Ohio tomorrow, per a Trump spox, our @SaraMurray reports. Today he’s with @SenBobCorker,  —   Noah Gray CNN (@NoahGrayCNN) July 5, 2016,  3:45: Sanders texts supporters about opposing TPP before   event: 10 minutes before Obama took the stage with Clinton, Sanders campaign texts voters about TPP pic. twitter.   —   Colleen Shalby (@CShalby) July 5, 2016,  3:40: Trump says in a statement that America’s enemies have a “blackmail file on Hillary Clinton” and it was “no accident” that Bill Clinton met with Attorney General Loretta Lynch on the tarmac: The FBI Director laid out today a detailed case of how Hillary Clinton compromised the safety of the American people by storing highly classified information on a private email server with no security. He confirmed that her email could easily have been hacked by hostile actors, and confirmed that those she emailed with were hacked. Our adversaries almost certainly have a blackmail file on Hillary Clinton, and this fact alone disqualifies her from service. It has also been revealed that Hillary Clinton lied when she said that she did not send classified information. The FBI Director confirmed that over 100 emails were deemed classified at the time they were sent, including emails classified as top secret. On top of it all, Hillary Clinton’s lawyers wiped the servers clean to delete another 30, 000 emails  —   hiding her corrupt dealings from investigators. She used the State Department for her personal gain, trading favors for cash, and tried to conceal the records. Also, she didn’t want people to know the details about her botched decisions in Libya, Syria, Iraq and Egypt that destabilized the Middle East. But because of our rigged system that holds the American people to one standard and people like Hillary Clinton to another, it does not look like she will be facing the criminal charges that she deserves. Bill Clinton didn’t accidentally run into the Attorney General on the airport tarmac last week in Phoenix. Hillary Clinton didn’t accidentally sneak into the FBI during one of the country’s biggest holiday weekends to testify on her illegal activities, something that wouldn’t be afforded to others under investigation (and on a Saturday of all days). It was no accident that charges were not recommended against Hillary the exact same day as President Obama campaigns with her for the first time. 3:35: Clinton praises Obama’s accomplishments and lists her laundry list of policy proposals re: jobs and education [Clinton does not know how to campaign in poetry]. 3:32: Clinton says she has known Obama as a friend, but she has to read from a Teleprompter. Clinton says Obama has never forgotten where he came from and taunts Trump, saying, “Donald, if you’re out there Tweeting, it’s Hawaii. ” Clinton praises Obama’s “brilliant” wife Michelle and Obama’s “two amazing daughters. ” HRC says Obama is ”someone who has never forgotten where he came from —  and Donald if you’re out there tweeting, it’s Hawaii.”  —   Liz Goodwin (@lizcgoodwin) July 5, 2016,  3:30: Obama and Clinton take the stage in North Carolina. And @HillaryClinton gets to speak at the lectern with the presidential seal. pic. twitter.   —   Mark Knoller (@markknoller) July 5, 2016,  Pres Obama and @HillaryClinton take the stage at Clinton Campaign rally in Charlotte. pic. twitter.   —   Mark Knoller (@markknoller) July 5, 2016,  3:05: Clinton campaign spin: ”Hardly.”  —   John Podesta, top advisor to Clinton, on whether FBI announcement overshadows today’s campaign event in NC. Via pool report.  —   Jennifer Bendery (@jbendery) July 5, 2016,  2:30: White House claims it received no advance notice of Comey’s announcement and Obama will not discuss Clinton’s email scandal during his North Carolina appearance. “No one at the White House received advance notice of [FBI Director James Comey’s] comments in fact, no one at the White House received advance notice that he had planned to make comments,” White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest reportedly told reporters aboard Air Force One. “I do not anticipate that the president will discuss directly the findings and recommendations announced by Director Comey today. ” 2:10: Obama coalition not as excited to see Clinton: Slightly smaller room than the last time I saw Barack Obama speak in North Carolina pic. twitter.   —   Michael Cohen (@speechboy71) July 5, 2016,  2:00: NARAL waiting for   to arrive: We’re in Charlotte waiting for President Obama and Hillary Clinton’s rally! Here’s Bea and Julie heading in. @NARAL pic. twitter.   —   NARAL   NC (@NARALNC) July 5, 2016,  1:50: Obama, Clinton en route to North Carolina: Obama and Clinton are wheels up on Air Force One to Charlotte, per pool. Flight time is 1 hour 5 minutes.  —   Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) July 5, 2016,  1:45: Perfect timing. Clinton campaign releases   “interview” with Obama praising her: In a new interview, @POTUS talks about why Hillary has everything it takes to be president. https:  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 5, 2016,  It’s not really an interview when it’s conducted by campaign staff https:  .   —   Jennifer Epstein (@jeneps) July 5, 2016,  A campaign handout video qualifies as an ”interview?” I don’t think so. https:  .   —   Julie Pace (@jpaceDC) July 5, 2016,  1:40: Scott Walker to speak at GOP Convention: BREAKING: @ScottWalker tells #WKOW he will speak at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland.  —   Greg Neumann (@gneumann_wkow) July 5, 2016,  1:35: Trump blasts “rigged” system: The system is rigged. General Petraeus got in trouble for far less. Very very unfair! As usual, bad judgment.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 5, 2016,    FBI director said Crooked Hillary compromised our national security. No charges. Wow! #RiggedSystem,  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 5, 2016,  1:30: Clinton boarding Air Force One with aides Huma Abedin and Jake Sullivan: . @HillaryClinton walks to Air Force One with @HumaAbedin ahead of President Obama for rally in NC. pic. twitter.   —   Doug Mills (@dougmillsnyt) July 5, 2016,    1:20: Clinton campaign “pleased” with the FBI Director’s announcement: JUST IN: statement from Clinton press secretary @brianefallon on Comey pic. twitter.   —   Gabriel Debenedetti (@gdebenedetti) July 5, 2016, 