Brunell     of Diversity Outreach at the National Diversity Coalition for Trump, was a guest on Friday’s Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Matt Boyle and discussed her support of Donald Trump for president. [She explained her focus was on bringing the Trump campaign’s message to all minority groups, including African Americans, women, Asians, Arabs, and “every single person of color, whether it be color or no color. ”  “What I will say is this: Donald Trump is saying, ‘America first.’ That is exactly why I am voting for him,” she said. “I’m a lifelong Democrat. I’ve always voted Democrat. I voted for our President two times, Mr. Barack Obama. ” She added, “You know, I believed in him when he said, ‘Yes, we can,’ and ‘You know there’s hope. We can do it together,’ and here it is eight years later nothing happened. ” LISTEN:   described her disillusionment with Obama’s failure to live up to his promises, saying she was a Bernie Sanders supporter who decisively broke with the Democrats for the way he was treated in the 2016 primary: In the inner cities, we’ve got killing going on. We’ve got hopelessness. We’ve got people who waited on life support for the President and for others in the party, the Democratic Party, to come through with jobs, and education, and improved communities, and investment in the community, education  —   waited for something to happen. And once again, you know, the broken promises. Nothing happened. And so this time, I really started to  —   you know, I voted for Bernie Sanders. I didn’t even vote for Hillary Clinton in the primaries. I was a Bernie Sanders girl. Once Bernie Sanders, I saw how we were treated at the Democratic National Convention, and I knew that I would not vote for Hillary Clinton, and the Trump Train just kept calling my name.  He just kept saying the right things: “I want to bring jobs, I want to bring education, school choice, to the black community, and to our communities, to poor communities, so that every child can enjoy the American Dream, whether your mother makes two dollars an hour, or whether your mother or father makes two billion dollars an hour. I want every child to have the best education. We need to build that wall because we’re not safe. Different people are coming into the country, and we don’t know who they are. We’re not vetting them. ” And so I kept hearing that, and you know, people were saying it’s about the Mexicans. It’s about Mexico. Mexican people aren’t the only ones coming through Mexico. There are other illegal immigrants coming in through Mexico. The NAFTA deals, when he started talking about how we’re not getting the right end of the stick on the trade deals. Our country has basically  —   our country has been starved in order to take care of overseas. Put it like this, Mr. Boyle, this is how it really kinda came home for me: Imagine you have a man who gets a paycheck, and he has a wife and kids at home. So he comes home with his paycheck, and his wife says, “Hey, where’s your money at? You know, we’ve got to get milk, we gotta pay rent, we’ve got to pay this, we’ve got to pay that. ” And the man says, “You know what, baby? Mr. Johnson’s family was really, really, really suffering, so you know what, I gave them my paycheck. And I’ve been giving them my paycheck every month. ” Anybody would say that’s hypocritical. How are you gonna starve your own family, and go and feed Mr. Johnson’s family, and make them feel better and be better?  That’s exactly what’s been happening under this Democratic rule. They’ve been feeding other countries, sending billions and billions to other countries, and we have people in the inner cities in our poor white communities, poor Hispanic, poor black, poor Arab communities, Asian communities, that need that money. We have homeless veterans that need those millions and billions. And so, once I started breaking it down on the issues, and stopped really thinking about it emotionally, I realized that as an American, if I didn’t take off my Democratic or my Republican hat, that I would be voting for the downfall of the country. And so I got on the Trump Train immediately, and began supporting Donald Trump.   said there are many other disillusioned Democrats who might be ready to climb aboard the Trump Train: Let me tell you what’s going on: we all voted for change, for hope, from President Obama, and basically what happened is, I know with black people  —   I’m not trying to be funny  —   there were black people that we all voted together, and they were like, “Oh, we know he’s not gonna do anything. He’s a puppet. He’s not going to do anything. I don’t believe him. ” And this was black people across the table, saying it in their homes, in quiet, not really in the public. I was one of those people that actually believed hope and change was gonna come, and so that first four years, like many black people, especially the ones in poverty, we thought, okay, well, he did have a lot of wealthy donors that put him in office and stuff, too.  So maybe once he takes care of Wall Street, and bails out these companies, and takes care of the people that put him in there with the millions, then his next four years  —   which will be 2012 to 2016  —   he’ll take care of the black community. He’ll take care of the poor Hispanics, poor whites. He’ll take care of women. He’ll take care of the rest of us. And then it slowly began to dawn on me  —   and it dawned on a lot of poor people, whether you be black, white, Hispanic, Arab, Asian  —   it dawned on them that hope, that change that was being promised was not coming. People became disappointed, they became hurt, they became hopeless, they became distraught because, like me, they did believe in what the President had told us. Now, you’re gonna get a lot of black people that will say, because they want to vote emotionally and not really look at the facts on the ground with poor people, they’ll say, “Well, you know, the Republican Congress, they blocked him. That’s why he couldn’t do anything for black people. ” And that’s rubbish.   pointed out that when it was time for his $1. 7 billion payoff to Iran, President Obama did not worry much about what Republicans (or many Democrats) in Congress thought, and did not think about putting that money into desperate communities in America instead. “What about that $5 billion that went into the Obamacare website?” she asked, adding: He could have said, you know what, why don’t I take a five hundred dollar website, and take this other     and send it into the inner cities of Maryland, or Texas, Alabama, Mississippi, anywhere. Just send the money to Americans. What about our veterans, who are committing suicide, 22 of them a day. Let me put it into the military, make them stronger. Like I said, it dawned on people that every other country built infrastructure, and lives were getting better, while Americans were being starved. She had some choice words for media outlets that are biased towards the Democrats, like CNN and MSNBC: Imagine if, during slavery, and during the civil rights movement, and during the times when our country, the Framers, were coming about, thinking they were going to make our country free. Imagine if the journalists only told one side of the story. We would still be slaves. Black people would still be slaves, if journalists, if people were not neutral, and didn’t just tell the news the way it was. And so that’s when you know our country is in trouble. When you have journalists, who are supposed to be neutral, who are supposed to be sort of the voice of the people, who are the voice of the elitists, of the establishment, of the people who want to continue to control the 99 percent of us  —   that scared me to death, when I realized that our media is actually picking a side.  That’s not your job! Your job is to report the news, report what each candidate is doing, not skew everything, turn everything around on one candidate because one of your donors is the   donor to Hillary Clinton. It’s just too much, Mr. Boyle.   agreed with Boyle that Trump was offering a number of specific,   proposals, like school choice, while his opponent runs on “Hate Trump! Hate Trump! Hate Trump! Vote for me! I’m a woman. ” Of Trump’s message, she said: But you know, the thing about it is, Donald Trump is saying, “Hey, we’re going to bring jobs. Inner city youth that’s dying out here  —   hello, how about we offer them jobs? How about we offer them some vocational programs or some apprenticeships? How about I put some money into those communities so that we can leave no child behind, that every child  —   whether you’re black, or white, or Hispanic, or Asian  —   that you deserve the American dream?” In addition to educational reforms, she mentioned child care, where “people are choosing between their rent or their gas money, whether they’re going to buy their babies milk or pay their cable bill. ”   argued these   concerns were more important than what the media tend to focus on because people cannot pay their electricity bills with a stack of scandal headlines. “In Donald Trump, we have a presidential candidate who is thinking about the little guy on the bottom, who’s making no money, who’s unemployed,” she argued, while rejecting the notion that life is improved for that little guy merely by punishing the rich.  “They’re putting money into our country. You shouldn’t be punished because you’re living the American Dream,” she said. “We all want to live the American Dream. That’s why Donald Trump is so important. He’s saying, ‘Look, I don’t care about your race. I don’t care about your color. I care that you really have a real shot at the American Dream. ’”  “His policies that he’s coming out with, he’s laying them out for a   person to understand. He’s not trying to talk over any American’s head. ” She declared, “He’s talking directly to America, and that’s why he is, I believe, the candidate that should go into office and that we should have the inauguration for on January 20th, 2017. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. Listen to the full audio of Brunell  ’s interview above.