Donald Trump blasted his rival Hillary Clinton during a campaign rally in Wilmington, North Carolina with more than 5, 000 supporters inside the event and reportedly thousands still outside who couldn’t fit. [Arena at   seats 5, 200 plus maybe 2, 000 on the floor. There are reportedly 5, 000 waiting outside who can’t get in,  —   David Martosko (@dmartosko) August 9, 2016,   The packed house awaiting @realDonaldTrump in Wilmington, NC pic. twitter.   —   Jeremy Diamond (@JDiamond1) August 9, 2016,  “She’s so guilty,” Trump said of Clinton, referencing her 33, 000 missing emails related to her scandal where she used a personal email server during her time as secretary of state. Wilmington crowd again tries to get ”lock her up” chant going, after Trump says ”She’s so guilty.”  —   Evan McMurry (@evanmcmurry) August 9, 2016,  This Trump crowd in Wilmington, NC has the feel of a   house. Enthusiastic, loud, yuuge, etc,  —   David Martosko (@dmartosko) August 9, 2016,  Trump is holding two campaign rallies in North Carolina on Tuesday  —   the same day a new poll found he’s two points behind Clinton in the state, within the 3. 4 percent margin of error. The New Yorker mocked Clinton for saying she   during a recent press conference when discussing the FBI investigation into her emails. “Could you imagine if I said that I  ? They would be calling for my execution,” Trump said. “It would be a whole different ballgame if I said it, believe me. ” The Republican nominee also criticized a recent federal appeals court ruling that struck down North Carolina’s voter ID law, holding that the law was “passed with racially discriminatory intent. ” “Voter ID, what’s with that?” Trump questioned. “Why aren’t we having voter ID? In other words, I want to vote, here’s my identification  …    as opposed to somebody coming up and voting 15 times for Hillary. ” The crowd booed in response. “I will not tell you to vote 15 times,” Trump added, saying voter ID is a “very important thing. ” In addition to Tuesday’s afternoon rally in Wilmington, Trump is also holding an evening campaign rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina.