Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 horse race. Indiana is effectively a closeout contest for Donald Trump, who can effectively all but end the GOP nominating contest by winning the lion’s share of the Hoosier State’s 57 delegates with a resounding victory.  On the left, Hillary Clinton lowered expectations by largely bypassing the state to focus on West Virginia. A Sanders win in Indiana will not change anything for Democrats since Sanders and Clinton will probably split the state’s delegates, but a Clinton victory may put more pressure on Sanders to exit the race. Polls close at 6 p. m. local time (eastern time for most of the state, central time for parts). Stay tuned to Breitbart News throughout the evening for live updates.  —   All times eastern. 12:45: Carl Bernstein says  on CNN that “new media” will play a   role in 2016 election, says Trump may benefit from the “screw you” vote in general election. He says Clinton allies are concerned about running against Trump and are worried because they know their candidate has “performed awfully. ” Bernstein points out that aTrump is going to make Clinton’s email scandal a “huge issue. ” 12:25: On CNN, Don Lemon says that he hadn’t seen a “whisper campaign” where people would come up to him and tell him they actually like and support Donald Trump since Obama’s historic candidacy in 2008. Lemon actually took regular people seriously, and that is why was one of the few mainstream media figures who said from the outset that Trump should not be underestimated. 12:15: On MSNBC, former GOP Chairman Michael Steele says Trump’s presumptive nomination is the creation of the GOP establishment that ignored their voters. 12:10: Why are these people, who always want people to be Republicans before conservatives, GOP operatives? ”I’m voting for Hillary”  —   thing multiple GOP operatives have told me tonight,  —   Kasie Hunt (@kasie) May 4, 2016,  12:05: Why are these pundits allowed to even give their takes this election cycle? This election cycle has shown that the “pundits” are just as clueless about the country as GOP establishment politicians and professional Republican operatives (establishment and conservative). Flashback: Coulter takes “talking head twits” to task, points out someone who did get it right this election cycle. Listening to all the same pundits who got it wrong for the last 11 months claim to predict the next six months accurately. #Trump2016 #MAGA,  —   Katrina Pierson (@KatrinaPierson) May 4, 2016,  12:01: #NeverTrump folks just as fragile as liberal snowflakes. Basically, #NeverTrump is the conservative version of a liberal ”safe space”  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) May 4, 2016,  11:52: Van Jones on CNN points out that only 70% of   don’t like him. He says that Trump can potentially fracture the   coalition that Democrats have taken for granted on illegal immigration. Axelrod, knowing that Jones may be right, interjects and immediately tries to change the subject. Jones says Trump just needs to get half of the 30% of black voters who do not hate him to be dangerous in a general election.   Noticeably absent from the media analysis: Trump’s tough stand on immigration has been key to his success. #IndianaPrimary #immigration,  —   Jon Feere (@JonFeere) May 4, 2016,  I almost forgot to get annoyed at TV pundits who explain Trump’s appeal  —   ’voters wanted outsider’  —   without mentioning immigration.  —   Mickey Kaus (@kausmickey) May 4, 2016,  11:45: Warrren trying to remain relevant or worried that Trump can actually win the White House. I’m going to fight my heart out to make sure @realDonaldTrump’s toxic stew of hatred  insecurity never reaches the White House.  —   Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) May 4, 2016,  There’s more enthusiasm for @realDonaldTrump among leaders of the KKK than leaders of the political party he now controls.  —   Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) May 4, 2016,  Here’s what else is real: @realDonaldTrump has built his campaign on racism, sexism, and xenophobia.  —   Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) May 4, 2016,  11:30: Texas Gov. Abbott calls on conservatives to “unite to support the presumptive GOP nominee. ” 11:10: In an interview with CNN, Sanders “doesn’t accept” that he can’t beat Clinton and says “we are in this race to win. ” He says Clinton does well with older people, but he wins with those under 45 years of age and is better able to win independents against Trump. Sanders says super delegates in states where Sanders won overwhelmingly “should respond to what their constituents want. ” He says it is incumbent upon super delegates in states in which he won landslide victories to support him. Sanders says he will see some “sensible super delegates” who supported Clinton even before Sanders announced ending up supporting him. He also says the Dem. establishment doesn’t want him around. He says it is “extremely undemocratic” to say that Clinton is the nominee at this point. 10:30: Though Trump’s campaign has been about how bad trade deals and illegal immigration are hurting American workers, Clinton’s campaign will try to argue that Trump is not prepared to “help working families get ahead here at home” and “keep our nation safe in a dangerous world. ” Responding to tonight, Clinton campaign says Trump ”is simply too big of a risk.” Full statement via @johnpodesta: pic. twitter.   —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) May 4, 2016,  10:25: MS Gov. Says He Will Support Trump: Mississippi Gov Phil Bryant: ”I will support Donald Trump to stop Hillary Clinton from becoming president.” pic. twitter.   —   Reid J. Epstein (@reidepstein) May 4, 2016,  10:18: Bigger GOP tent with Trump as nominee: . @newtgingrich: ”This will be a much bigger Republican party three months from now.” #Hannity pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) May 4, 2016,  10:00: Sanders has some “bad news” for Clinton if she thinks the Dem. race is over. . @BernieSanders: If Clinton thinks primary race is over, ”I’ve got some bad news for her” https:  .  https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) May 4, 2016,  9:55: Clinton already fundraising off of Trump: Donald Trump is the presumptive @GOP nominee. Chip in now if you agree we can’t let him become president: https:  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 4, 2016,  9:51: Strong support once again for Trump with voters who are angry at the federal government. Over   GOP #INprimary voters who are angry at the gov’t went for @realDonaldTrump: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News Politics (@CBSPolitics) May 4, 2016,  9:45: Tony Lee: Trump is raw, but he has great potential for a general election. He’s like a   baseball player with great speed, which never has a slump, or a pitcher who can throw 100 mph. You can’t teach those skills. But he can’t just hurl the ball without a plan or run himself out of innings. 9:34: Trump vows to “make America great again” and says Americans will be proud of their country very soon. 9:33: Trump says we’re going to say “Merry Christmas” again. He says he won with women voters tonight and says “I love winning with women. ” 9:31: Trump says people who have been “vicious” to him are calling to ask to come aboard the “Trump Train. ” Trump thanks Sen. Jeff Sessions ( ) and Sarah Palin, who he says from “day one has been incredible. ” 9:29: Trump congratulates Priebus for dealing with 17 egos. He says he guesses he is now down to one but doesn’t know (Kasich still in the race). He also congratulates his staff. “This has been an amazing evening,” Trump says. “I didn’t expect this. ” He says Cruz did a “brave” thing by dropping out because we “have to bring unity” to the Republican Party. . @realDonaldTrump on RNC Chairman @Reince: ”It’s not an easy job, when he had 17 egos  now I guess he’s down to one  …    is there a second?”  —   Fox News (@FoxNews) May 4, 2016,  9:26: Trump says other nations will like us better and “respect us” after his tough love policies. “They have to respect us, and they have to know where we’re coming from,” he says. Trump says Clinton will not be able to make great trade deals and says he will have “unbelievable relationships” with Hispanics. He says Hispanics and   want jobs and he will bring back jobs. Trump says a divided country will become “one loving country” with “great economic development” that other countries cannot “take away from us. ” 9:25: Trump: “We’re going to win big. And it’s going to be America First. ” 9:22: Trump says “we’re going to bring back our jobs” and “we’re going to keep our jobs. ” Trump says companies can go to different states but not to other countries that devalue their currencies. He says there will be “serious consequences” for companies that do so. Trump says he has been in competitions all of his life and he has met some of the most unbelievable competitors in this election cycle. Trump says Cruz is “one hell of a competitor” and a “tough, smart guy. ” He adds that he doesn’t know whether Cruz likes him but says Cruz has “got an amazing future. ” He wants to congratulate Cruz and realizes how tough the business is. 9:21: Trump says Hillary will be a “poor” president because she doesn’t understand trade. He says her husband signed the worst trade deal in history and during the last six weeks he has witnessed the “carnage” NAFTA has wrought. 9:17: Trump thanks the “incredible people” of Indiana for helping him erase a   deficit. He says “we had a tremendous victory tonight. ” He thanks Bobby Knight. Trump says we are losing with trade and borders and we’re not going to lose anymore. He says the people of Indiana didn’t buy the negative ads against Trump. He says it makes him feel very good. He says he’s now going to Nebraska and West Virginia. “We’re going to get those miners back to work,” he says. Trump says he watched Clinton talk about miners as if they are just numbers. “Let me tell you: The miners of West Virginia and Pennsylvania  …     and Ohio.. and all over will start to work again,” Trump says. “They’re going to be proud again to be miners. ” 9:16: A victorious Trump appears at Trump Tower and starts by thanking his family. 9:14: Sanders projected to win Indiana: BREAKING: Bernie Sanders is projected winner in the Indiana Democratic primary https:  .  #Decision2016 pic. twitter.   —   NBC News (@NBCNews) May 4, 2016,  9:00: Priebus declares Trump “presumptive GOP nominee,” calls on Republicans to defeat Clinton. . @realDonaldTrump will be presumtive @GOP nominee, we all need to unite and focus on defeating @HillaryClinton #NeverClinton,  —   Reince Priebus (@Reince) May 4, 2016,  8:58: On CNN, Van Jones, who is worried about Trump’s appeal in a general election, points out that Clinton still hasn’t sealed the deal on the left for the same reasons Trump clinched on the right. 8:41: Cruz says “it appears that path has been foreclosed. ” He says we left it all on the field in Indiana “but the voters chose another path. ” He says “with a heavy heart and with boundless optimism” and “for the   future of our nation, we are suspending our campaign. ” “But hear me now: I am not suspending our fight for liberty,” he says. Cruz says he will continue this fight with all of his strength and ability.   8:38: Cruz says he saw a “movement grow” when he launched his campaign while the pundits doubted him. He cites over $1. 5 million contributions averaging about $60 and thanks the patriots who supported his campaign for fighting so hard to save our nation. 8:34: Cruz reportedly dropping out of the race: My colleague @SunlenSerfaty reports Cruz is dropping out of GOP race.  —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 4, 2016,  8:31: Cruz says America is the land that allowed her mom to be a pioneer in the tech world and opened its arms to his father. He says their stories could only happen in America. 8:29: Cruz wants to talk about the America he loves. He says “we began with a revolutionary idea” that rights “don’t come from kings and queens and even presidents but from God almighty and everyone has an unalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness and to protect those rights the Constitution serves as chains to bind the mischief of government. ” 8:27: “God Bless the Hoosier State,” Cruz opens. 8:23: Carly Fiorina is speaking before Cruz at his election night party.  Sounding scripted, she says Cruz favors “substance over sloganeering” and who favors “respect over insult. ” Who did better after Fiorina came on board: Hewlett Packard or Ted Cruz?  —   Sam Stein (@samsteinhp) May 3, 2016,  8:19: Steve Schmidt: The candidate who is most like George W.   Cheney on foreign policy is Hillary Clinton and not Donald Trump. 8:18: MSNBC’s Wallace says she’s hearing there will be a “Republicans for Hillary” effort in the general election. She and Schmidt say these Republicans, mainly in the foreign policy establishment, may support Clinton on foreign policy grounds. (Tony Lee: That may be a gift for Trump like it was for Obama in 2008, since Americans hate those in the GOP foreign policy establishment after the Iraq war.) 8:17: On MSNBC, none other than Steve Schmidt says the race is “over” and he would tell the other campaigns to “hang it up. ” MSNBC has the   duo of Nicolle   are on for election night coverage. 8:13: Dominant. At 8:11pm, with 42% of the precincts reporting, Trump is now leading in each of Indiana’s 9 congressional districts.  —   Steven Portnoy (@stevenportnoy) May 4, 2016,  8:10: Trump continues to raise the roof: If Trump cracks 50% in Indiana, it’s his seventh majority in a primary. Been a while since Cruz insisted he had a 35% ceiling.  —   daveweigel (@daveweigel) May 4, 2016,  8:07: Trump getting ready at Trump Tower: Eh hem.. looks like they are getting ready at Trump Tower even as Cruz may be coming out to speak soon. pic. twitter.   —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 4, 2016,  8:02: New York Post cover: “Hoosier Daddy!” Donald Trump is the GOP’s nominee  —   it’s time for Cruz and Kasich to drop out https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   New York Post (@nypost) May 3, 2016,    8:00: Kasich campaign’s statement on tonight’s results: Statement from Kasich camp: “Tonight’s results are not going to alter Gov. @JohnKasich’s campaign plans. ” pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) May 3, 2016,  7:57: (See previous comments about Axelrod calling Trump the first “Twitter candidate” for more parallels) Tim Russert said this week 2008 on NBC, ”We now know who the Democratic nominee is going to be, and no one is going to dispute it. ”  —   Michael Beschloss (@BeschlossDC) May 3, 2016,  7:55: Matt Drudge: All the phony talk of a Republican contested convention has evaporated in the corn fields of Indiana  …      —   MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) May 3, 2016,  7:50: Trump on his way to 1, 237: NBC News has now allocated *at least* 45 of Indiana’s 57 delegates to Trump  —   giving him 1, 043 total delegates in GOP race,  —   Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) May 3, 2016,  7:47: Can Trump excite these voters like Obama mobilized disaffected black voters in 2008? The # @realDonaldTrump will be watching: @HillaryClinton has lost   whites by 13 ILL, 15 MI, 18 WI  30 in early #IndianaPrimary exits,  —   Ronald Brownstein (@RonBrownstein) May 3, 2016,  7:40: And they claim to care about the Supreme Court: #ImWithHer,  —   Ben Howe (@BenHowe) May 3, 2016,  So the #NeverTrump movement seems to be slowly morphing into the #ImWithHer movement. Maybe never really does mean never.  —   Matt Viser (@mviser) May 3, 2016,  7:35: Media mocking Never Trump professional operatives: Sad! pic. twitter.   —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) May 3, 2016,    7:29: Bernie Sanders, speaking to supporters, says he the ideals he is fighting for is for the future of America and the Democratic party. He says he is running for president because we live in the wealthiest nation in the history of the world but the most Americans don’t know it because the economy is rigged and most of the income goes to the top 1%. 7:26: On CNN, David Axelrod, who was the top strategist for the first Facebook candidate in Obama (who ran circles around Clinton) mentions that Trump is the first “Twitter candidate. ” The brilliant “Vote Different” ad that the Obama campaign employed against Clinton applies to her this time around as well —  and people like Axelrod know it deep down. (Tony Lee: I once labeled Sarah Palin the “Great CommunitTweeter” and Trump is running circles around the GOP establishment, being embraced by   voters, and pissing   the professional conservatives and professional Republicans just like Palin would have done. Keep in mind that the political and media establishments all mocked Palin when she started using   to go directly over their heads to the American people. Years after Palin used   to communicate with voters, the reporters and operatives who mocked her started to religiously use  .) 7:20: Cruz is leading in only two counties in Indiana. 7:12: Trump won over moderates and Indiana Republicans who make more than $100K. Again, Trump has    support. Trump did better with voters who made over 100k in Indiana than under. A reverse of the usual pattern pic. twitter.   —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) May 3, 2016,  Trump also did better with moderate voters than conservatives in Indiana pic. twitter.   —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) May 3, 2016,  7:07: On Fox News, Carl Cameron reports that the Trump campaign is realizing they need more staffers for a general election and is figuring out who they are going to fund a general election campaign. 7:02: Dem. race too close to call. 7:01: Trump Projected to Win Indiana (early call probably means race is not going to be close): BREAKING: Donald Trump is the projected winner in the Indiana GOP primary https:  .  #Decision2016 pic. twitter.   —   NBC News (@NBCNews) May 3, 2016,  In less than an hour Trump is projected to win the IN Primary  —   this could be a 50+% landslide. https:  .   —   Zach Crenshaw (@ZachWSBT) May 3, 2016,  6:58: Most GOP primary voters decided early: Early exit polls show @tedcruz ahead   Indiana’s   GOP voters @marthamaccallum https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   FoxNewsInsider (@FoxNewsInsider) May 3, 2016,  6:58: On MSNBC, Chuck Todd points out that Cruz, who wants to frame himself as an outsider, is coming across as just a   politician who is upset that he is losing since he is refusing to say he will never support Trump even after calling him an “amoral” “pathological liar. ” 6:56: Trump 54% Cruz 33% (8% reporting). 6:55: Fox News has hardly been   as Cruz laughingly tried to claim in his morning rant. New Fox News statement on Ted Cruz remarks about Roger Ailes and Rupert Murdoch: ””Senator Cruz is wrong. ””  —   Dylan Byers (@DylanByers) May 3, 2016,  6:53: Trump dominating Google searches: #IndianaPrimary  —   Trump has been searched more than Cruz  Kasich combined as polls close in Indiana pic. twitter.   —   GoogleTrends (@GoogleTrends) May 3, 2016,  6:50: Breitbart News has relentlessly reported for nearly four years on the GOP establishment’s efforts to “crush” the Tea Party movement and voters that gave the GOP its majority in Congress, and how that has enraged   voters across the country. Now, mainstream media reporters seem to be finally getting it. On CNN, John King and Gloria Borger pointed out that Trump has succeeded this election cycle because GOP establishment leaders treated the voters who gave them their power and majority with nothing but disdain. Conservative commentator Jeffrey Lord said that the GOP’s success under   led to many Republicans who came to Washington as revolutionaries and then became consummate insiders who then lost touch with the Reagan revolutionary voters. Kayleigh McEnany said that the “Never Trump” movement, like the GOP establishment did tried to do to Tea Party voters, only care about tearing Trump down and that is why the movement is flailing and failing. McEnany and Lord sound like real people who are in touch with average Americans, unlike CNN panelist Amanda Carpenter, who is rabidly   and sounds like a consummate Washington insider who is most at home parroting talking   points that   consultants send around in the morning. 6:33: Krauthammer concedes “stop Trump” campaign over if Trump wins Indiana. . @krauthammer: “If @tedcruz loses  …     there is no ‘stop Trump’ campaign. @realDonaldTrump will have the nomination. ” pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) May 3, 2016,  6:19: Could Clinton pull out a victory in Indiana? Hillary winning Fayette   64% Daviess   65% Whitley   54% Knox   57%. These are places Bernie should be winning to win statewide.  —   Dave Wasserman (@Redistrict) May 3, 2016,  6:15: Cruz’s dad: Trump’s JFK allegations “ludicrous. ” Rafael Cruz tells @TomLlamasABC Trump’s allegations are ”ludicrous”: ”That’s typical of Donald Trump. ”https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) May 3, 2016,  6:10: Cruz supporters lining up for election night event in Indiana. . @tedcruz’s election night party will be at this ornate rail station in downtown Indy. Before all the action starts: pic. twitter.   —   Melanie Mason (@melmason) May 3, 2016,  Cruz supporters starting to line up outside the downtown Indy ballroom for tonight’s election event pic. twitter.   —   Drew Daudelin (@drewdaudelin) May 3, 2016,  6:00: Lindsey Graham again spending more energy attacking Republicans than Democrats: If we nominate Trump, we will get destroyed  …      …    . and we will deserve it.  —   Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) May 3, 2016,  5:50: Eric Cantor —  always in touch with the people: . @EricCantor at #MIGlobal admits his prediction at Davos that Trump wouldn’t win a single state was way off pic. twitter.   —   Jewish Insider (@J_Insider) May 3, 2016,  . @EricCantor: ”Conventional wisdom has been wrong this entire election season  many of us have been advocates of conventional wisdom”  —   Jewish Insider (@J_Insider) May 3, 2016,  5:45: Kasich will hold media availabilities tomorrow. Will anyone even care? Kasich, who has been quiet the past few days, will hold media availabilities on Wednesday (in northern Virginia) and Thursday (in DC).  —   Thomas Kaplan (@thomaskaplan) May 3, 2016,    5:39: On MSNBC, Chris Matthews wonders out loud when Trump’s “hair” and “his manner” and “schtick” will start being inappropriate. 5:35: Indiana GOP voters “dissatisfied” and “angry” at Washington: 50% dissatisfied, 34% angry, 10% satisfied,   5:28: Indiana GOP exit polls: 34% very conservative, 43% somewhat conservative, 21% moderate, 5:26: Indiana Republicans want candidate who shares their values, brings change, and “tells it like it is. ” Exit Polls in INDIANA show more than   of GOP voters seek candidate who share same values https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Face The Nation (@FaceTheNation) May 3, 2016,  5:25: Indiana GOP voters (53%) feel party’s politicians have “betrayed” them: EXIT POLLS: show half of Indiana Republican voters said they “feel betrayed” by GOP politicians. Other descriptors: concerned, divided.  —   Hallie Jackson (@HallieJackson) May 3, 2016,  5:23:   most important issue for Indiana Republicans: In INDIANA Primary   is the most important issue to GOP voters #Indiana pic. twitter.   —   Face The Nation (@FaceTheNation) May 3, 2016,  5:20: Another example of why Clinton is not a   vs. Trump in general election. The same number of Indiana GOPers say they would ”definitely” back Trump in general (55%) as Dems say would ”definitely” back Clinton (54%).  —   Ryan Struyk (@ryanstruyk) May 3, 2016,  5:17: Exit Polls: 65% of GOP Indiana Primary voters believe candidate with most votes should be nominated at contested convention. 5:16: ABC News Exit Polling: Based on preliminary exit poll results, among key GOP groups, a third are “very” conservative, six in 10 are evangelicals and a majority attends church weekly. Still, weekly churchgoing evangelicals  —   a better group for Cruz in the past  —   account for well under half of all Indiana GOP primary voters, about four in 10. 5:13: Indiana Dem. Exit Polls:  Only 18% of Indiana Dems are  . Just 17% are under 30 years of age: Per MSNBC exit polls: only 18% of Indiana Democrats voting so far are African American,  —   Kendall Breitman (@KendallBreitman) May 3, 2016,    Per MSNBC exit polls: 17 percent of Indiana Dem voters are under 30,  —   Kendall Breitman (@KendallBreitman) May 3, 2016,  5:11: Indiana Dems. think Sanders much more   than Sanders. Pretty stark difference in   numbers from Indiana Democratic voters in prelim exit polls: Clinton:  %Sanders  %  —   Ryan Struyk (@ryanstruyk) May 3, 2016,  5:09: Exit Polls: Indiana Republicans want outsider. 59% of IN GOP voters want someone outside the political establishment per the exit polls.  —   Harry Enten (@ForecasterEnten) May 3, 2016,  5:07: Exit Polls: Like voters in other states, GOP voters in Indiana think primary has divided party, Democrats believe primary has energized their party: Prelim. exit polls:  57% of GOP voters say  primary has divided the party. 74% of Dem voters say it’s energized the party.  —   Evan McMurry (@evanmcmurry) May 3, 2016,  4:55: Bobby Jindal now says he’ll vote for Trump if he is the nominee (Tony Lee: GOP candidates who have presidential ambitions realizing they may not want to turn off Trump voters they will need in future election cycles. Cruz has to be careful going forward because Trump’s supporters don’t easily forget and the GOP establishment forces already has nothing but disdain for him.) He was first to attack him from the debate stage now @BobbyJindal softening his tone, will support Trump if nominee https:  .   —   Brooke Baldwin (@BrookeBCNN) May 3, 2016,  4:45: According to Google, in the week before the Indiana primary, Hoosier state residents mostly searched for Donald Trump, ISIS, and immigration. 4:37: Perhaps the worst state in which to make such a ridiculous   gaffe: ”Basketball ring” is a gaffe that stuck for Cruz. On Indy radio just now hosts were mocking it, a week later. This was top 40, not AM talk.  —   Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) May 3, 2016,  4:35: Trump dominant in West Virginia. State’s voters also don’t like Fiorina. West Virginia poll  —   @ppppolls, Trump 61%Cruz 22%Kasich 14% Sanders 45%Clinton 37% *** Trump 57%Clinton 30%  —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) May 3, 2016,  PPP poll of West Virginia, 12% of voters saying picking Fiorina makes them more like to vote for Cruz31% say less likely.  —   Sam Stein (@samsteinhp) May 3, 2016,  4:32: Mark Salter, John McCain’s “alter ego” who   all of his books, says he’s with Clinton: the GOP is going to nominate for President a guy who reads the National Enquirer and thinks it’s on the level. I’m with her.  —   Mark Salter (@MarkSalter55) May 3, 2016,  4:20: Ed Rollins reportedly joining   Super PAC. This race just gets more interesting since Roger Stone, a longtime Trump ally who, in an understatement, hates Rollins, started a competing   Super PAC (Committee to Restore America’s Greatness). Rollins will join the   Great America PAC group hopes it will raise $ as qs persist about Trump’s operation https:  .   —   Alex Isenstadt (@politicoalex) May 3, 2016,  4:15: “Never Trump” movement spent big in Indiana. Clinton campaign spent nothing. Cruz,   Forces Spent $6M Over Airwaves in Indiana  —   via @NBCPolitics https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) May 3, 2016,  Team Sanders spent $1. 5M in ads in Indiana  —   versus $0 for Team Clinton, per our data https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) May 3, 2016,  4:05: Polls close in Indiana at 6 p. m. local time: #INPrimary pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) May 3, 2016,  4:00:   group already hyping Cruz’s   rant:   forces already making use of Cruz’   rant. From @CorrectRecord: pic. twitter.   —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) May 3, 2016,  3:56: Tony Lee: Earlier, Cruz again claimed that even Fox News is the Donald Trump network and cynical media executives want Trump to be the GOP nominee because Clinton will steamroll him en route to the White House. Not so fast. Clinton, who is much more of a policy wonk than a gifted politician, has trouble connecting with   whites as much as she does with black activists. A lack of enthusiasm for her candidacy among black base voters combined with enthusiasm for Trump’s candidacy among   voters of all backgrounds may open the door for a general election victory for Trump. In addition, there may be a reverse Bill Bradley effect in the general election, as women and minorities may be reluctant to tell pollsters, strangers and perhaps even friends that they will vote for Trump. If the mainstream media really thought Clinton would steamroll Trump, wouldn’t they be hyping how well Trump would fare against Clinton in the general instead of repeatedly saying (as if they are trying to convince themselves while knowing Clinton is far from a   to win the general election) that Trump has no chance against Clinton in the general? 3:55: Andrea Mitchell, echoing what an AP reporter discovered in Appalachia, tells Clinton, “Appalachia used to be Bill Clinton Country. Now, it’s Donald Trump country. ” Clinton claimed that her comments about wanting to put the coal industry out of business was “totally out of context from what I meant” and it was a “misstatement. ” 3:45: CLINTON REPEATEDLY PLAYS GENDER CARD IN INTERVIEW WITH MSNBC’S ANDREA MITCHELL: Clinton claims she is a “change candidate,” telling Mitchell, “I can’t imagine more change than having the first woman president. ” She adds that she is on the bring of being the “first woman nominated by a national party to run for president. ” She says her campaign has raised millions of dollars already off of Trump’s comments about her gender. She adds, “we’re not going to be counted out. ” She says women will “claim what is rightfully ours’ in the workplace, society, and political system.  She also said a “woman’s card unfortunately doesn’t give you a discount” even though women don’t get equal pay. Regarding her comments about knowing how to deal with “men who go off the reservation,” Clinton claims she was referring to Rudy Giuliani’s “intemperate” attacks and temper tantrums. She also said she also handled Rick Lazio during her Senate race, who Clinton said was “similarly going after me. ” “I have political experience in dealing with candidates who think they are going to score points by being either negative about women in general or me in particular,” she said. HRC: I have experience in running races against men who make ”visceral,   attacks”  —   citing Giuliani, Lazio,  —   Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) May 3, 2016,  . @HillaryClinton: what @realDonaldTrump was saying going after my qualifications is familiar to a lot of women @MSNBC #AMR,  —   Andrea Mitchell (@mitchellreports) May 3, 2016,  3:47: In the interview, Clinton also said the government should take a “hard look at coal companies” that, in the course of going through bankruptcy proceedings, are trying to shed their   responsibilities to their workers. She said coal companies are not taking into account years of labor and commitment of their employees. 3:45:  In the MSNBC interview, Clinton suggests she will be tougher on Putin than Trump, saying that Putin blamed her personally for demonstrations in Russia against his rigged election. 3:33: Clinton says she has not been contacted by the FBI and claims foreign nations did not hack her private email server. Clinton tells @mitchellreports she has not been contacted by the FBI for an interview re emails.  —   Ken Thomas (@KThomasDC) May 3, 2016,  3:30: Interesting comment from a Cruz surrogate: Real quote from Cruz surrogate today: “We’re not going to nominate Hillary Clinton with a penis. ” https:  .   —   MJ Lee (@mj_lee) May 3, 2016,  3:15: Tony Lee: Cruz pointed out Trump’s insecurity, something Trump will have to overcome if he is going to become a great general election candidate and president. But listen to Cruz’s interview. Just like he did when he confronted a Trump supporter and sounded like a D. C. elitist thumbing his nose at regular people, he sounds like a Senator reading a prepared script even when attacking Trump. He seems incapable of speaking like a normal person, and that is part of the of the reason why Cruz (with his Ivy League pedigree) much to his chagrin and frustration, has not been able to viscerally connect with   voters. 3:00: A day when his campaign may effectively end, Cruz decided it was time to finally say what he thinks about Donald Trump. Cruz called Trump a “pathological liar” and a serial “philanderer” who jokes about “venereal disease” and who will betray and lie to his supporters on every issue. He said Trump is an “amoral” and “arrogant buffoon” who accuses everyone else of doing whatever he does and says Trump believes whatever lie he is telling at the moment. Cruz said Trump could tell three different lies on the same day and pass a lie detector test each time. He also said Trump is an insecure narcissist and bully who is terrified by strong women and said Trump’s insecurity is why he builds giant buildings and puts his name on them. Trump’s campaign blasted Cruz’s “outburst,” saying he was becoming “unhinged” because of his “flailing” campaign. That was an impressive meltdown  …     Desperate but impressive. Reminded me of my 3 year old coming off a sugar high.  https:  .   —   Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) May 3, 2016,  Trump calls Cruz comments an ”outburst” and says he has been getting ”more and more unhinged” in latest statement. pic. twitter.   —   Ryan Struyk (@ryanstruyk) May 3, 2016,     