 ’s Finding Dory topped the box office during its second weekend of release and Fox’s Independence Day sequel looked like anything but a “resurgence” as Hollywood’s summer offerings continued to disappoint this weekend. [Dory led all newcomers this weekend with an estimated $75 million haul to bring its   total to around $289 million, according to Variety. The sequel to 2003’s Finding Nemo dipped just 44% from its   first weekend, making it one of the few bright spots at the summer box office this year.  Fox’s Independence Day: Resurgence took in $16. 8 million on Friday and is estimated to earn around $43. 4 million for the   frame, below even the studio’s modest hopes for a $50 million weekend. Roland Emmerich’s sequel to his 1996 alien invasion movie will need a strong performance at the international box office if it is going to recoup its reported $ $200 million price tag. ID:2‘s poor performance means Hollywood has not yet found the cure for its “ ” problem, despite Dory‘s strong performance. The original Independence Day earned $96 million in its opening frame on its way to becoming the   movie of 1996 but while the original film felt fresh and featured an    Will Smith, the   sequel currently sits at a dismal 33% rating on review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes and earned a tepid B CinemaScore, suggesting    won’t do the film any favors in its second weekend. The failure of ID:2 is the latest in a string of Hollywood misfires this summer as moviegoers stay away from an onslaught of unwanted sequels. Aside from the   Captain America: Civil War,  : Apocalypse and Dory, no other film has opened to more than $100 million at the box office (and   still underperformed when compared with its predecessors). Instead, films like Kung Fu Panda 3, Alice Through the Looking Glass, Warcraft, Neighbors 2 and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows all landed with a thud at the box office, and in some cases, outright bombed (though Warcraft did fantastic business in China). Even     like the Russell   Gosling starrer The Nice Guys and this weekend’s Matthew   Free State of Jones failed to connect with audiences. Unfortunately for Hollywood, it does not appear that the July 4 holiday weekend’s releases will right the ship. According to the Hollywood Reporter, Steven Spielberg’s Roald Dahl adaptation The BFG is tracking to open to around $30 million, which would be a disappointing result for Disney and Amblin Partners given the film’s hefty budget and the involvement of an   director. The real test next weekend will be Warner Bros. The Legend of Tarzan, which is also tracking to open in the $30 million range, according to THR. An opening that small would be a disaster for Warners as the film reportedly cost the studio and its financing partners around $180 million before marketing costs. Variety notes that the film would have to take in around $400 million just to break even. Elsewhere this weekend, the Blake   shark attack movie The Shallows took in $6. 8 million on Friday and is estimated to end up with around $16 million for the weekend. That’s a great result for Sony, which spent just $17 million on the thriller. Warner Bros.   Line’s Central Intelligence is estimated to come in third place this weekend with a solid $18. 1 million, while Nicholas Winding Refn’s The Neon Demon failed to drum up much business with an estimated $609, 000 from 783 theaters.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  