Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of U. S. presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton, is in London and looking forward to one of the most exclusive fundraising events in recent political history. Guests reported to be attending include Mr. and Mrs. George Clooney and Rupert Murdoch. [Ms. Clinton will be the guest of honour at a lavish dinner held in South Kensington tonight, after having first appeared in discussion with the English    of American Vogue, Anna Wintour, at a private art gallery in Mayfair. Initial rumours that the candidate Mrs. Clinton would be in London were rubbished by her campaign who told Breitbart London, “the candidate is in America”.  Natalie Massenet is the hostess of the dinner, the “ultimate power party” which will be held in a specially erected marquee in the gardens of her property. The Daily Mail reports that at roughly £20 million (US$28 million) her home is among the 50 most expensive in the UK. The events will raise funds to boost Mrs. Clinton’s stuttering Presidential nomination battle with Vermont socialist Bernie Sanders. With admission to the evening discussion being priced from US$500 to US$1, 000, and attendance at the dinner coming in at US$2, 700, some supporters will be spending the best part of £2, 600 in the course of the night. The events have been put together by ‘London for Hillary’ a group that says it is “building a formidable and influential group of   American voters who believe she is the right person to lead the Democratic Party in 2016. ” Organiser Stephanie Stewart says she supports Mrs. Clinton because she is “smart, determined and dedicated to democratic values” as well as being “a strong Progressive who can move America forward. ” The generous hostess of the event, Mrs. Massenet (50) is recognised as one of the world’s most successful businesswomen. Having left her job as fashion editor for Tatler magazine in 1998, the dual nationality   and her banker husband (now ex) Arnaud Massenet launch   . com  —   a luxury website in magazine format that sells designer fashion  —   in 2000. By the time it merged with online Italian discount fashion firm Yoox in September 2015, the company was said to be worth US$1 billion and Mrs. Massenet earned an estimated US$111 million from the sale of her remaining shares. Recognised with a damehood in the latest New Year’s honours list, the chair of the British Fashion Council is now branching out of the fashion and retail industries and into politics. One of Mrs. Massenet’s former colleagues told the Daily Mail: “I’m not surprised Hillary has enlisted Natalie’s support. She’s extremely impressive and inspirational. She is also very personable and has a knack for making people want to work for her. ” Another added: “Natalie is a firm believer in girl power. She’s calling upon all her contacts to fight Hillary’s corner. ” She will give the Clinton campaign access to the pockets of wealthy U. S. bankers who form a large part of London’s American community  —   a key target for U. S. presidential hopefuls since former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani held the first Presidential campaign fundraiser here in 2007. Asked about Mrs. Massenet’s aims for tonight’s London events, a source said: “I’ve heard she’s planning to get hundreds of thousands for Hillary on the night. She’s aiming for a million dollars. ” Meanwhile, the Bernie Sanders campaign has also reached London. Bernie for President  …     Of London? pic. twitter.   —   Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) February 23, 2016, 