The city of Cleveland, Ohio has bought insurance in anticipation of large scale rioting at this summer’s Republican National Convention, Shane Ferro reports at the Huffington Post. He also begins to lay out a media narrative that Republicans may to blame for some potential violence. [The RNC will take place in July. But as HuffPo reports, Cleveland is already making plans not just for the violence and chaos but for the rounds of lawsuits by leftist attorneys that often follow.  A spokesperson for the city of Cleveland emailed HuffPost a statement that said the city hired an insurance broker “to assist the City in identifying and procuring law enforcement professional liability and related insurance. ” The statement also said it will be paid for through a federal grant. According to Cleveland. com, the city will get a “$50 million federal security grant. ” In the article, HuffPo raises the specter of the 1968 contested Chicago Democrat Convention to advance the theory that it’s not just leftist protesters that are the risk, but that Republicans themselves may engage in the street violence or disruptive street protests: “There’s such a huge range of things that can happen when you have that many people with so many different viewpoints together in a city,” said Christine Link, the executive director of the Ohio ACLU. She noted Cleveland is expecting between 50, 000 and 75, 000 extra people in its downtown area during the upcoming convention. This convention is no     event, either. Currently, no GOP primary candidate has secured enough delegates to sail through the nomination process, and there is such resistance to Donald Trump’s candidacy within the party that there’s lots of talk about a potential contested convention. That means not only will there be the protesters you normally see at any political event, but there could be protesters from separate factions of the Republican Party itself. Planting this idea continues the “blame the victim” reporting of media outlets that Republicans such as Donald Trump are to black for disruptions at their events. As Breitbart News recently reported, the leftist protests have made it clear that supporting Donald Trump is enough to make someone a target of violence. Huffington Post makes no mention of Black Lives Matter founder Patrisse Cullors’s promise to shut down the RNC or last summer’s police intervention by Black Lives Matter activists in Cleveland.  Breitbart News will continue to bring you complete coverage of the plans for violent disruptions from the left on the road to Cleveland. Keep up with the new an follow Breitbart News investigative reporter and Citizen Journalism School founder Lee Stranahan on Twitter at @Stranahan.