Border Patrol agents working near the border community of Havana, Texas, rescued a woman who had crossed the border from Mexico and was abandoned by her smugglers, left to die. [U. S. Border Patrol agents from the Rio Grande Valley Sector were working near the town of Havana when they encountered a woman suffering from heat exhaustion and dehydration. The woman was unconscious and had been left to die by her human smugglers, according to information obtained by Breitbart Texas from the Border Patrol. Havana is located just west of Mission, Texas, just a few miles from the border with Mexico.  One of the agents, trained as an emergency medical technician, provided aid to the woman while other agents called for an ambulance. She was transported by ambulance to an area hospital in McAllen. She was expected to recover after medical treatment and evaluation. The woman will then be processed by the Border Patrol station in McAllen. Later that day, Border Patrol agents engaged in a pursuit when a vehicle fled from the Sarita Checkpoint on Highway 77, south of Kingsville. A   agent alerted to the trunk area of the vehicle and the driver took off. As is normally the case in south Texas, the pursuit lasted a short time and the driver eventually stopped and was arrested. Agents searched the vehicle and found seven illegal aliens packed into the trunk of the car. The smuggling cargo of human beings was trapped inside the trunk with no way to escape the sweltering heat. Temperatures in the area were approaching the 100 degree mark. Illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America are frequently abused by the cartel connected human smugglers who are happy to take their cash but care little for their safety or  . Breitbart Texas has reported frequently on deaths in the south Texas counties where the bodies or skeletal remains of these immigrants are found after they have been abandoned by their smugglers. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX