Rock band Death Cab for Cutie, who contributed in their own way to an effort to defeat Donald Trump during the presidential campaign, has a reminder for their fans now that the Republican businessman won a decisive victory last week: their concerts will always be “safe places. ”[In a statement posted across their social media accounts on Monday, the   band led by singer and guitarist Ben Gibbard said that despite the “many unknowns on the horizon,” fans could always find solace at their concerts.  “We feel that there has never been a more important time to reaffirm the following: Death Cab for Cutie shows will always be a safe place for people of all colors, all genders, all sexual orientations and all beliefs to come together to celebrate music, love and mutual respect,” the band wrote. pic. twitter.   —   Death Cab for Cutie (@dcfc) November 14, 2016,  “That is who we are, that is what we stand for as individuals and as a band,” the statement continued. “There are a lot of unknowns on the horizon and many things out of our control, but we remain resolute in our commitment to creating music and maintaining a community around our band that embodies compassion, understanding, kindness and safety. Be kind to one another, stand up for one another and take care of one another. ” Death Cab for Cutie was the first band to participate in writer Dave Eggers’ “30 Days, 30 Songs” project, a collection of   Trump songs written and performed by 30 different bands in the days leading up to Election Day. The bands called themselves “Musicians for a   America. ” Death Cab for Cutie’s song was “Million Dollar Loan,” a mournful tune about Trump’s early start as a businessman. In a statement on its website, the musician coalition said it was inspired to unite against what it called the “ignorant, divisive, and hateful campaign of Donald Trump. ” “We will not be duped by Mr. Trump’s rhetorical contortions, by his pandering and lies and false promises,” the group wrote. “He has shown the content of his character time and time again, and the very fact of his candidacy is a blight on the nation. ” Death Cab for Cutie currently only has two performances scheduled a date at the Cosmopolitan hotel in Las Vegas on March 17 and an appearance at the Port of Gold music festival in Arizona the following day. Frontman Ben Gibbard will perform two solo concerts in Chicago in January.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum