Eagles safety Malcolm Jenkins said the Eagles plan some kind of anthem protest on Monday Night Football. [“Everyone wants to be a part of it, and I feel like it’s no different on our team,” Jenkins told WIP Radio.  It’s unclear what polling service Jenkins used to discern that “everyone wants to be a part of it. ” This is perhaps an embellishment. It would stand to reason there are players around the league who disagree with teammates kneeling during the anthem. Jenkins was asked if he’s concerned with dividing his team over his social activism. “It’s important, but you obviously walk a fine line,” Jenkins said. “Your goal is not to divide people but the goal is also not to beat around the bush. If it comes down to making somebody feel uncomfortable by speaking the truth, then I’d always make you uncomfortable with the truth than make you feel comfortable with a lie. It’s always a fine line to walk when you’re talking about a team atmosphere and making sure that your cognizant of the guys next to you, but at the same time, you know, this is bigger than football. ” While in Chicago, perhaps Jenkins will also protest the city’s 2016 homicide rate, which is currently on a record pace. Over 500 people, many black, have been killed this year in Chicagoland. “Still to be determined,” Jenkins said Saturday when asked what exactly the Eagles will do during the anthem. “Still want to have a couple conversations with my teammates, and it’ll be a decision I weigh over the next couple days. ” Jenkins is totally supportive of San Francisco 49ers reserve quarterback Colin Kaepernick who started this movement. “I support everything Kap’s doing and his whole entire message,” Jenkins said. So that means Jenkins supports comments like this: “You can become a cop in six months and don’t have to have the same amount of training as a cosmetologist,” Kaepernick said recently. “That’s insane. Someone that’s holding a curling iron has more education and more training than people that have a gun. ” As for the game  …     Philadelphia Eagles ( ) at Chicago Bears ( ) There is a good chance the Bears get their first win of the year. Eagles QB Carson Wentz makes his second NFL start, and remember, he beat the rebuilding Cleveland Browns at home in his first game. Now he’s on the road at Soldier Field. History tells us that rookie quarterbacks tend to struggle mightily on the road. And some of Wentz’s teammates might be distracted. They seems to be spending a lot of time planning their protest.