An explicitly illustrated new website from the German Federal Centre for Health Education (BZgA) targeting migrants gives life lessons in sex, including different positions, prostitution, and how to engage in causal sex.  Launched in late February as a means to aid integration, the website is gathering significant attention abroad for its graphic cartoon depictions of sexual acts. The pictures, which often show   men having sex with white women have been referred to as an illustration of Germany’s “welcoming culture” towards migrants by Swiss newspaper Blick, while Canada’s Ezra Levant called them conveniently “colour coded”. Available in 13 languages including Arabic and Turkish, Zanzu. de is funded by the BZgA as well as the Federal Ministry for Health. Many of the issues dealt with by the site are explained to German children while they are at school in sex education classes, but for those coming from “Arab and African” countries this is not the case, reports the German Express. Speaking to press, the parlimentary secretary for the Ministry for Families said the target for the site was these migrants, and especially those “who have not lived in Germany long, here for them is a discrete and direct [way to gain] knowledge in this area”. The text, audio files, and pictures cover everything from anal sex to abortion, divorce, and having sex with virgins. The website even gives advice to migrant women on how to get involved with the sex trade, giving tips including asking the customer (“or customers”) to pay first, and to tell “girlfriends” what you are up to. Many of the pages emphasise the importance of having permission from your partner before you have sex with them, a key point in a country coming to terms with the mass migrant sex attacks in Cologne on New Year’s Eve. The German concept of “ ” hailed as a “miracle” in 2015 and lampooned by the Swiss Blick, is the brainchild of Chancellor Angela Merkel, the architect of the mass migration. It saw German citizens gleefully welcoming   of migrants. With an eye on the weekend’s coming elections in which   parties are expected to do well, Neu Zürcher Zeitung has suggested that patience has run out, bidding “farewell Merkel’s welcome culture”.