Nolan Finley writes in the Detroit News about how a Clinton corruption scandal with a local Metro Detroit connection highlights the thesis of the new documentary film “Clinton Cash” based on Peter Schweizer’s bestselling book of the same name. [Voters should understand that scandals are part of the package when they make a Clinton president. And it’s not because their enemies are any more dedicated to their destruction than were those of George W. Bush or Barack Obama.  It’s because the Clintons are greedy and unethical. They have mastered the art of using public service for personal enrichment, have marketed his presidency and exploited her cabinet post to become filthy rich, and believe they are above the law. And experience suggests they are. The latest example is classic Clinton, complete with crony capitalism, the leverage of influence, redefining the rules and the requisite rumors of an affair, this one with a Metro Detroit connection. The Wall Street Journal detailed a $2 million transaction by the Clinton Global Initiative, an arm of the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation, that funneled the charity’s money to an energy company owned by a group of their   friends, including Julie Tauber McMahon, daughter of Joel Tauber, wealthy Oakland County businessman and huge Democratic fundraiser. The CGI gave the money to Energy Pioneer Services to weatherize the homes of   families. Clinton also personally intervened with former Energy Secretary Steven Chu to secure an $812, 000 grant for the company. The Journal suggests the commitment from CGI is crosswise with IRS rules, which prohibit charities from operating for the benefit of private interests. The article comes just ahead of the theatrical release of “Clinton Cash,” a movie made from the book of the same name by journalist Peter Schweizer. The documentary explores how the Clintons went from leaving the White House in 2000 deeply in debt to a fortune of more than $130 million today. Schweizer traces the millions of dollars Bill Clinton received in speaking fees  —   as well as the massive donations to the foundation  —   from foreign countries with business before the State Department while his wife was secretary of state. The book and film contend those donors often were rewarded by favorable decisions from Hillary Clinton. Read the rest here. Watch the Clinton Cash trailer below: 