Donald Trump was echoing the words of Bill Clinton’s sexual assault accusers when he slammed Hillary Clinton on Friday as an “unbelievably nasty, mean enabler” who “destroyed” the lives of her husband’s mistresses and alleged victims. [Indeed, in numerous recent interviews with this reporter, those sentiments and more were expressed directly by Clinton mistress Gennifer Flowers rape accuser Juanita Broaddrick and sex assault accusers Kathleen Willey and Paula Jones.  During a campaign stop Friday in Eugene, Oregon, Trump stated of Hillary: “She’s been the total enabler. She would go after these women and destroy their lives. She was an unbelievably nasty, mean enabler, and what she did to a lot of those women is disgraceful. ” Let’s take a closer look at what some of Bill Clinton’s alleged female victims have had to say on the same subject. Gennifer Flowers: Hillary ‘an enabler’ Gennifer Flowers says she was Bill Clinton’s consensual mistress for more than 12 years. In her only interview since Clinton announced her candidacy, Flowers in October told me she believes Hillary is “an enabler that has encouraged him (Bill) to go out and do whatever he does with women. ”  Clinton admitted in a deposition to one sexual encounter with Flowers. I asked Flowers point blank what she thought of Hillary’s attempt to make women’s issues a major part of her campaign. Flowers responded by saying, “You know, people criticize me for talking about her because I had an affair with her husband. ” “And I don’t blame them for that,” she said. “I understand that. I understand that they can be mad at me. I get it. I accept my responsibility.   …     But she’s never accepted her responsibility at being an enabler. She’s been an enabler that has encouraged him to go out and do whatever he does with women. ” “Woman’s rights. Ha!” Flowers added. “I personally have worked my tail off to get where I am in the entertainment business, which has not been easy since the Clinton scandal, by the way.   …     Hillary never put up a shingle and worked for her clients and built her clientele. She always got things on the back of her husband.   …     I think it’s a joke that she would run on women’s issues. ” Juanita Broaddrick: Hillary ‘has always known everything’ In one of her first media appearances in nearly a decade, Juanita Broaddrick last November stated on my weekend talk radio show, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” that she blames Hillary Clinton for covering up her husband’s alleged sexual crimes and indiscretions. “I think she has always known everything about him. I think they have this evil compact between the two of them that they each know what the other does and overlook it. And go right on. And cover one for the other,” she said. She recalled a personal meeting with Hillary in 1978, in which, Broaddrick believes, the future First Lady strongly implied the alleged rape victim must stay silent about the alleged rape, which she says took place was she a nursing home administrator volunteering for   Attorney General Bill Clinton’s 1978 gubernatorial bid. Three weeks after the alleged incident, Broaddrick says she was still in a state of shock and denial about what she said had transpired. She said she attended a private Clinton fundraiser at the home of a local dentist, where she had an encounter with the Clintons and was directly approached by Hillary. Broaddrick said a friend of hers who had driven the Clintons to the fundraiser from a local airport informed her that “the whole conversation was about you coming from the airport. Mostly from Mrs. Clinton. ” She recalled: “And so then about that time, I see them coming through the kitchen area. And some people there are pointing to me. He goes one direction and she comes directly to me. Then panic sort of starting to set in with me. And I thought, ‘Oh my God, what do I do now? ’” Broaddrick told me that Hillary approached her “and said ‘It’s so nice to meet you’ and all of the niceties she was trying to say at the time. ” “And said, ‘I just want you to know how much Bill and I appreciate the things you do for him.’ And I just stood there, Aaron. I was sort of you might say  . ” “And she said, ‘Do you understand. Everything you do. ’’’ “She tried to take a hold of my hand and I left. I told the girls I can’t take this. I’m leaving. So I immediately left. ” Broaddrick said that “what really went through my mind at that time is ‘She knows. She knew. She’s covering it up and she expects me to do the very same thing. ’” Paula Jones: Hillary allowed husband to ‘abuse’ women, On May 8, 1991, when Clinton was Governor of Arkansas and Paula Jones was a state employee, she says she was singled out that day by Clinton, and was escorted to the politician’s room in the Excelsior Hotel in Little Rock, Arkansas. There the future president allegedly groped and exposed himself to her. She says she rejected his advances and bolted the room. In an interview that aired on my radio show this past January, Jones demanded Hillary Clinton personally apologize for “allowing” her husband to “abuse” and “sexually harass” women. Ragarding Hillary’s use of womens’ issues in the campaign, Jones said that “it’s really, really sad that she is using that to gain popularity or whatever. ” “I don’t see how women would even be able to trust her if the man who is her husband who has abused and harassed and did other things to women and she knew about it. ” Jones laments the perception of Hillary as a woman who stood by her husband during all of the various sexual accusations. “Well, she stood by her man, all right. And she allowed her husband to abuse women, to harass women, possibly other things that he did wrong to women. And she allowed it to happen. As a matter of fact, she would go out and she would try to discredit these women, including me. “And called us the ‘bimbo eruption.’ You know, these ‘bimbos.’ Okay. For what her husband did to us. But she didn’t believe us.  None of us women. ” Kathleen Willey: Hillary ‘wrote the book on terrorizing women’ Kathleen Willey was a Democratic activist who, along with her husband Ed, founded Virginians for Clinton, which supported Bill Clinton’s successful 1992 White House bid. Willey became a White House volunteer during Clinton’s first term. She says she was facing a tough financial situation, so she personally approached Bill about the possibility of a paid position. Instead of offering to help her, Willey says she became the victim of “nothing short of serious sexual harassment. ” Since Hillary’s campaign announcement in April, Willey has spoken out against the Democratic   during numerous exclusive interviews on my radio program. “This woman wrote the book on terrorizing women, on terrorism,” Willey exclaimed in one of those interviews. Continued Willey: Her tactics and the things that she set in motion against all the women like me, the ones you have heard of and the ones you haven’t heard of, and the ones who are so scared that they fled the country, are terrorist tactics like I’ve never seen before. I went through them. I lived through them. And I know exactly what I am talking about. She is the war on women. I don’t care what anybody says. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.