A Massachusetts judge has set a $25, 000 cash bail for a Syrian refugee charged with indecent assault and battery on a victim under 16.  Emad Hasso, 22, allegedly harassed and grabbed a    girl repeatedly on Thursday in a swimming pool until a lifeguard intervened, according to the Lowell Sun: Prosecutor Sam Miller said that around 5:30 p. m. on Thursday, the    Lowell girl was at the Raymond Lord Memorial Pool at the North Common Park in Lowell when she said a man approached her, touched her upper thigh and asked her age. The girl told him she was too young for him and walked away, Miller said. The man, who was later identified as Hasso, allegedly began to follow the girl around the pool and approached her again when she was swimming, touching her upper thigh and again asking her age. The girl responded that she was a “little kid, leave me alone,” Miller said. Other people at the pool, including the lifeguard, saw some of the interaction between Hasso and the alleged victim, and intervened, Miller said. Police said the incident may have been captured on video security cameras at the pool. Hasso was imported into the U. S. only two months ago at taxpayer expense, who are on the hook for additional court expenses, including an interpreter. It’s unknown if Hasso is employed. The Lowell assault comes on the heels of a hideous sex attack perpetrated by Iraqi and Sudanese refugees who stripping a white    girl naked, urinated on her clothes and in her mouth, and filmed her torment in Twin Falls, Idaho. “He was likely resettled by the same federal contractor, U. S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants (the federal contractor in Lowell) wanting a   in your towns. USCRI is in charge of Twin Falls, Idaho too,”refugee resettlement watchdog Ann Corcoran wrote at Refugee Resettlement Watch. “What are the odds that this guy is going to become an upstanding American citizen? An afterthought: So is this the contractor’s fault for not telling their new charges that this sort of behavior is illegal in America?”   activist Pamela Geller also condemned the Lowell assault in fierce terms: “Pool sex attacks are rampant in Europe. Pool sex crimes in Germany are rampant.  Widespread sexual pool assaults in Sweden have been by ‘unaccompanied refugee children.’ Things are so bad in Austria, Muslim refugees have been banned from public pools. And now Obama and his party of treason and destruction are insuring the same fate for our daughters, sisters, wives. ” The Obama administration is rushing to import thousands more Muslim foreigners onto U. S. soil under the Syrian refugee resettlement program, dumping 100 per day into American communities.