Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 election. Hillary Clinton will introduce running mate, Tim Kaine, at a campaign event at Florida International University in Miami. Stay tuned to Breitbart News for live updates.  All times eastern.  —   6:45: Kaine reportedly considered using a boat last night to evade reporters: Tim Kaine aides considering using a boat to evade reporters last night. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) July 23, 2016,  6:35: Some of Ted Cruz’s most important donors slamming him. Bad news for him ahead. 4:48: Trump: They don’t look presidential: Just saw Crooked Hillary and Tim Kaine together. ISIS and our other enemies are drooling. They don’t look presidential to me!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2016,  4:30: Trouble on the left: Green Party candidate Jill Stein urges Bernie Sanders to withdraw his endorsement of Clinton in light of the Wikileaks emails: “On the eve of the Democratic National Convention, I invite Bernie Sanders to reconsider his endorsement of Hillary Clinton in light of these new facts, and to consider joining forces outside of the corrupt Democratic Party that sabotaged his campaign,” she said. “I once again urge Bernie to sit down with me to explore potential collaboration with the Green Party to ensure that the political revolution will prevail. ”  —   Sanders campaign wants accountability: Bernie Sanders camp manager Jeff Weaver tells me somebody with DNC has to be ”held accountable” for   @ABCPolitics,  —   MaryAlice Parks (@maryaliceparks) July 23, 2016,  2:50: Kaine celebrated with champagne during his flight from RI to MIA last night, per aides,  —   Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) July 23, 2016,  2:40: Bar was set low, and Kaine jumped over it.   I’ve seen a lot of @TimKaine speeches  …    he is always good.. but nothing like that before.. he has raised his game to a major league level,  —   Ryan Nobles (@ryanobles) July 23, 2016,  extremely effective Kaine debut,  —   John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) July 23, 2016,  2:05: Kaine frames election: Kaine framing   choice: ”you’re fired” v ”you’re hired” ” ” v ” ” ”me first” v ”  first”  —   John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) July 23, 2016,  He slams Trump for not releasing tax returns. 1:58: He says he and Hillary “will not rest” until more gun control laws are enacted. “We won’t rest until we get universal background checks,” he says. He says the NRA has campaigned against him but he’s   in elections. . @timkaine quotes Harry Truman: ”America was not built on fear.” https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) July 23, 2016,  1:50: Kaine says he and Clinton will champion a “strong” and “progressive” agenda. He asks everyone to go to a naturalization ceremony, saying it’s one of the most powerful things. [When Democrats speak, the mainstream media always seem to lose their sarcasm, vitriol, and snark.] 1:40: Kaine going over his biography. He says his time in Honduras changed his life in so many ways. He says he saw a dictatorship in Honduras where a few people at the top got everything and it convinced him to fight for equality for everyone. He praises former Virginia GOP Gov. Linwood Holton (Kaine is married to his daughter) for  integrating its schools. Kaine talks about his accomplishments as a civil rights lawyer and says, “I like to fight for right. ” Kaine talks about it being cool that his kids went to the same public schools named after their grandfather. Kaine now talking about his father in law, Linwood Holton, former Republican governor of VA who integrated the state’s schools.  —   Abby D. Phillip (@abbydphillip) July 23, 2016,  1:35: Kaine touting his extensive experience as a career politician in the year of the outsider. ”I’m one of only 20 people in American history to serve as a mayor a governor and a united states senator,” Kaine says,  —   Liz Goodwin (@lizcgoodwin) July 23, 2016,  1:33: Kaine says when Donald Trump says he has your back, you better watch out. He also talks about his son, who is about to deploy overseas. Kaine tells the crowd here in Miami that his oldest son is soon deploying to Europe to work with NATO. Tailor made knock on Trump.  —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) July 23, 2016,  1:32: Soul mates? Tim Kaine:  ”Companeros de alma” pic. twitter.   —   Gary Detman (@GaryDetmanNews) July 23, 2016,  1:28: Kaine says he feels a lot of gratitude and says he is grateful for the trust Clinton has placed in her. He immediately speaks Spanish while addressing the crowd. Kaine basically immediately breaks into Spanish. Welcome to Miami! pic. twitter.   —   Gabriel Debenedetti (@gdebenedetti) July 23, 2016,  1:22: Clinton says Kaine has a “backbone of steel” behind his smile. “Just ask the NRA,” she says. “Over and over again, he has had the courage to stand up to the gun lobby in their own backyard. ” 1:20: . @HillaryClinton gives a big shout to DNC chair @DWStweets for rigging the process. Job well done,  —   Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) July 23, 2016,  1:16: Clinton says Kaine is everything “Donald Trump and Mike Pence are not. ” She says Kaine is qualified to step in and lead on day one. She frames Kaine as a “progressive” [Sanders’s supporters may disagree] who likes to get things done. She’s her kind of guy. She says they both grew up in the Midwest and raised by fathers who were small businessmen. She touts Kaine’s “lifelong commitment to social justice. ” Clinton says Kaine could have done anything after Harvard Law School, but he chose to become a civil rights lawyer to take on housing discrimination. She says while Kaine was taking on housing discrimination cases, Donald Trump was denying housing to  . [Look for more of this from Clinton to gin up minorities to vote against Trump.] . @HillaryClinton: ”@timkaine cut his own salary and invested in education from   through college and beyond.” pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) July 23, 2016,  1:14: Clinton says they will offer a very different vision next week. She talks about “building bridges, not walls” and embracing diversity. She is thrilled to announce Kaine as a man who shares and lives those values. VA Gov. McAuliffe praise pick: Tim Kaine is an excellent choice  —   a good friend, a strong liberal, experienced. All who know him like  respect him. Will make amazing VP!  —   Terry McAuliffe (@TerryMcAuliffe) July 23, 2016,  1:11: Clinton says after everything we’ve seen at the Republican convention, being here is “truly like a breath of fresh air. ” Clinton says she sees “America’s future” when she looks out at the crowd. She says instead of the “fear and anger and resentment,” she senses optimism because “we are stronger together. ” Clinton says Trump is wrong to think that America is in decline and declares that America’s best days are still ahead of us. Clinton says she knows that nobody does anything all alone and slams Trump for declaring that he’d fix America’s problems. 1:08: Clinton and Kaine appear together on stage.   ticket takes the stage pic. twitter.   —   Amy Chozick (@amychozick) July 23, 2016,  12:35: Robert Reich calls on Clinton to dump  : Hillary should fire Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Now. Don’t wait until next week to replace her. Yesterday WikiLeaks  …     https:  .   —   Robert Reich (@RBReich) July 23, 2016,  12:00: Debbie Wasserman Schultz now on stage as the crowd awaits  . She hypes the Dem. convention next week and vows to “make our case to the American people about our vision. ” She is slamming Florida Gov. Rick Scott on healthcare. She says she has two words for Donald Trump: “stronger together. ” [After that build up, her two words = Clinton’s canned campaign theme? Lame.] She asks the crowd to chant, “I’m with her. ” 11:50: Listen to all of the “objective” pundits and “journalists” speaking about  . They sound like WWE rasslin’ announcers trying their darndest to get wrestlers fans do not like “over” with them. 11:45: Kaine being hammered for   on   Partnership. Liberal fan site Huffington Post completely and comically uncritical:   Kaine told Clinton he wouldn’t support the TPP in its current form https:  .   @mmcauliff,  —   Sam Stein (@samsteinhp) July 23, 2016,  Kaine told Clinton he wouldn’t support the TPP in its current form https:  .   @mmcauliff,  —   Sam Stein (@samsteinhp) July 23, 2016,  11:35: Trump: Tim Kaine is, and always has been, owned by the banks. Bernie supporters are outraged, was their last choice. Bernie fought for nothing!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2016,  The Bernie Sanders supporters are furious with the choice of Tim Kaine, who represents the opposite of what Bernie stands for. Philly fight?  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2016,  11:25: Wall Street breathes sigh of relief while   base jeers Kaine pick. 11:00: Interesting observation. Neither Elizabeth Warren nor Bernie Sanders has said anything about Kaine’s selection.   10:50:   ready to debut today in Miami: At the @HillaryClinton rally in #Miami. She’s expected to appear with VP pick @timkaine. I will FB live the event. pic. twitter.   —   Sam Sosa (@SamanthaSosa_) July 23, 2016, 