EXETER, New Hampshire  —   Gov. Mike Pence drilled down on a newly released Wikileaks email, pointing out that a political consultant to Hillary Clinton discouraged tribute to the “four guys” that died in Benghazi and declaring to the crowd, “Those weren’t four guys. Those were four American heroes! ”[Pence reminded the crowd that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton told parents of the four fallen Americans that a filmmaker in the United States was responsible for the deaths, despite having emailed her daughter Chelsea the night of the attack and called it an Al   terrorist attack.  He said that congress found out about that email and went on to mention the new email chain that discussed a statement and Clinton’s opening remarks to testify before Congress’ select committee on Benghazi. “This just came out today  …    when her staff was preparing her for testimony, an opening statement for the select committee on Benghazi, one of them actually mentioned in an email that she shouldn’t focus too much on the ‘four guys’ who were killed,” said Pence. “Those were not four guys. Those were four American heroes,” Pence said to shouts of affirmation and applause. “When she was questioned about the reason for the attacks she actually said of those four American heroes, she actually said, ‘What difference, at this point, does it make?’ He continued, “Let me tell you something, I’m a father of a United States Marine. Anybody who said that, anybody who did that, should be disqualified from ever serving as    of the armed forces. ” “It was Hillary Clinton who left Americans in harm’s way in Benghazi,” Pence remarked to the New Hampshire crowd earlier in his address. Pence also referenced FBI documents that revealed interview documentation of the State Department offering the FBI a quid pro quo to change the classification of certain Clinton emails. The FBI had been investigating Clinton’s use of a private email server to send classified information. The investigation ultimately revealed that she had sent and received information over the server that was classified at the time it was sent, including at least one Top Secret piece of information. Pence stated that one of those emails “had to do with Benghazi. ” Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 