Democratic presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton will return to California on June 6, where Christina Aguilera, John Legend, Stevie Wonder, Ricky Martin, and Andra Day will host a   “She’s With Us” fundraiser for her at the famous Greek Theatre. [According to Variety, the money will be raised for Clinton’s Hillary Victory Fund, which is a joint committee of the Clinton campaign, the Democratic National Committee, and state party committees. The event will reportedly “bring attention to important issues impacting families,” including criminal justice reform, gun violence prevention, immigration, women’s social and economic equality, and climate change.  Variety notes that the Hillary Victory Fund held a concert in New York in March featuring Katy Perry and Elton John. Last November, Aguilera and her producer fiancé, Matthew Rutler, helped Clinton stuff her campaign war chest when they hosted a fundraiser for the former Secretary of State at their Beverly Hills home, where Aguilera performed with American music duo A Great Big World, best known for their   hit “Say Something. ” Clinton will also be back in Los Angeles on May 23 for a fundraiser at the home of the Creative Artist Agency head honcho Bryan Lourd, who will be   a $  event with Bruce Bozzi, the executive VP of the Palms Restaurant Group. Hollywood’s biggest Democratic players have gone   for Clinton, furnishing their checkbooks to prove it. Clinton’s Hollywood backing includes George Clooney, Robert de Niro, Tom Hanks, Barbra Streisand, Morgan Freeman, and power players like director Steven Spielberg, DreamWorks Animation CEO Jeffrey Katezenberg, and billionaire TV mogul Haim Saban, as well as   bundlers like Howie Mandel (not the TV star) and CAA agent Michael Kives. Meanwhile, Sen. Bernie Sanders ( ) has earned support from progressives like Susan Sarandon, Sarah Silverman, Mark Ruffalo, Danny DeVito, Jeremy Piven, Rosario Dawson, Spike Lee, and members of the Red Hot Chili Peppers. Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz 