Hard on the heels of the FBI’s revelation that Hillary Clinton withheld at least 30 emails potentially related to the Benghazi attack from the State Department, comes the potentially even more devastating discovery that she was still sending classified material through her secret, unsecured private email server after she left the State Department. [The New York Post reports:  On May 28, 2013, months after stepping down as secretary of state, Clinton sent an email to a group of diplomats and top aides about the “123 Deal” with the United Arab Emirates. But the email, which was obtained by the Republican National Committee through a Freedom of Information Act request, was heavily redacted upon its release by the State Department because it contains classified information. The markings on the email state it will be declassified on May 28, 2033, and that information in the note is being redacted because it contains “information regarding foreign governors” and because it contains “Foreign relations or foreign activities of the United States, including confidential sources. ” The email from Clinton was sent from the email account  —   hrod17@clintonemail. com  —   associated with her private email server. The email’s recipients were Deputy Secretary of State William Burns, diplomat Jeffrey Feltman, policy aide Jake Sullivan, diplomat Kurt Campbell, State Department chief of staff Cheryl Mills, and Clinton aide Huma Abedin. “Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information was so pervasive, it continued after she left government. She clearly can’t be trusted with our nation’s security,” said Republican National Committee research director Raj Shah. “Hillary Clinton’s secret server jeopardized our national security and sensitive diplomatic efforts on more than 2, 000 occasions, and shockingly, it now appears her reckless conduct continued even after leaving the State Department. Hillary Clinton’s terrible judgment shows she cannot be trusted with our national security,” said Jason Miller, senior communications adviser for Donald Trump’s presidential campaign. The FBI is expected to release its full Clinton investigation report to the public soon, along with its notes on Clinton’s voluntary interview with FBI agents.  It will be interesting to see how the Bureau looked at Clinton’s failure to submit official correspondence, as required by law, in defiance of documents she signed under penalty of perjury  …     and her willful destruction of such documents with advanced   software, whose manufacturer is currently bragging that it helped Hillary Clinton thwart the FBI  …     followed by her exposure of classified material as a private citizen  …     and yet somehow concluded she should not be referred to the Justice Department for indictment.