Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has criticized Donald Trump for promising to build a wall on the U. S.  border. But Zuckerberg is now facing criticism for his neighbors for building a    stone wall around his new Hawaii estate. [“The feeling of it is really oppressive. It’s immense,” resident Gy Hall told the local newspaper on the island of Kauai, the Garden Island. “It’s really sad that somebody would come in, and buy a huge piece of land and the first thing they do is cut off this view that’s been available and appreciative by the community here for years. ”  Pictured:   wall around Mark Zuckerberg’s $100m Hawaii retreat https:  .  via @MailOnline,  —   DanRiehl (@DanRiehl) June 29, 2016,  Zuckerberg took a swipe at the presumptive Republican nominee and his wall proposal in April: “I hear fearful voices calling for building walls and distancing people they label as others. For blocking free expression, for slowing immigration, reducing trade, and in some cases around the world even cutting access to the internet. “It takes courage to choose hope over fear. People will always call you naive but it’s this hope and this optimism that’s behind every important step forward. ” However, when it comes to his own $100 million,   estate, a wall seems to fit the bill. Another local resident, Donna McMillen, complained bitterly to the Garden Island: “Money is no option [sic] for him. I’m 5’8” and when I’m walking, I see nothing but wall   …    It just doesn’t fit in with the natural beauty that we have here. There are people on the island who money can pay for anything. These kind of things that they do take away what Kauai is all about. ” The manager of the project says that it “follows all regulated rules and regulations by the county,” and at least one resident told the Garden Island that it is “attractive” because it uses local materials. But others are irritated because Zuckerberg has not responded to their concerns. “In the case of this wall, all he needs to do is take it down, so people have the view and the breeze back. It would end all discussion. That’s all we’re asking,” local resident Shosana Chanter told the Garden Island. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, will be published by Regnery on July 25 and is available for   through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.