Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign has teamed up with Pusha T for a voter registration drive that includes the chance to meet the rapper backstage at one his concerts. [By registering to vote via Clinton’s campaign website, one winner and a guest will be selected to receive a   airline ticket to a Pusha T event and hotel accommodations for the night.  There is, however, an alternate hillaryclinton. com link that allows those interested to enter the contest without revering to vote. Enter to win: meet Pusha T. Register to vote and you’re automatically entered to win.  https:  .   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 28, 2016,  Pusha T has been a very vocal supporter of the Democratic presidential nominee. In July, the Virginia rapper tweeted a photo of himself video chatting with Clinton to his 1. 3 million Twitter followers. A few days later, the rapper posted a photo of himself wearing a “Delete Your Account” shirt, a reference to Clinton’s Twitter diss directed at Trump. Clinton’s partnership with Pusha T could be an attempt to shore up support among younger voters, a group with whom the Democratic candidate has struggled to attract support in recent months. Pusha T rose to prominence as   of the   group Clipse in the late 90s and early 2000s before setting off on a solo career and later connecting with Kanye West, who named the rapper the president of his G. O. O. D. Music record label in November. As several music outlets note, many of Pusha T’s lyrics touch on his apparent affinity for cocaine. In “Keep Dealing,” the rapper calls himself the “last cocaine superhero” and boasts that he “weighs bricks on the scale they put the lunch meat on. ” On “Hold On,” from his solo debut album My Name is My Name, the rapper claims: “I sold more dope than I sold records. ” In May, the rapper teamed up with   on the mixtape track, “Drug Dealers Anonymous,” where the two discuss their lives before rap superstardom. The Clinton campaign’s contest to meet Pusha T runs through October 6. Enter above.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson