Target is sticking with its plan to open all of its   bathrooms and changing rooms to members of the opposite sex, despite a public boycott and a new poll showing growing public support for   bathrooms. [“We certainly respect that there are a wide variety of perspectives and opinions,” company spokeswoman Molly Snyder told USA Today.  “As a company that firmly stands behind what it means to offer our team an inclusive place to work  —   and our guests an inclusive place to shop  —   we continue to believe that this is the right thing for Target,” she said, adding that the company has “  family restrooms for those who may be more comfortable with that option. ” The statement came as the #BoycottTarget petition reached over 550, 000 signers in less than a week. On April 19, the Target retail corporation released a statement telling shoppers and employees that “inclusivity is a core belief” and insisting the chain welcomes “transgender team members and guests to use the restroom or fitting room facility that corresponds with their gender identity. ” “Gender identity” is a term invented and used to bolster the claim that some men may wish to live and dress like women, and that some women wish to live and dress like men. Almost immediately irate customers flooded Target’s social media accounts with complaints and pledges they’ll never shop at Target again. Not long after the announcement, the American Family Association launched its #BoycottTarget effort to remind Target that many customers don’t want their wives and children exposed to potential predators in Target bathrooms and changing rooms. Only a day or so later the boycott effort had garnered over 200, 000 signatures. Now, just under a week after Target’s announcement, the same petition has reached over 550, 000 signers. Under Targets’s policy, people who claim to be transgender get to choose whether the people in their changing room are male or female. Target’s policy denies that choice to normal people, who won’t get to choose if transgender or men or women walk into their bathroom or changing room. The number of Americans who are transgender, or who wish to live as members of the opposite sex, is very small. It amounts to roughly one out of every 2, 400 adults, according to a 2010 study of Census data. Also, a new poll shows the public is increasingly opposed to the elimination of   bathrooms. Target’s continued support for the   bathrooms reflects its long history of pushing the radical gay agenda. On its corporate website, for instance, there are many posts and announcements celebrating the LGBT lifestyle. In one of its efforts to support gays, last year Target agreed to be a corporate sponsor of the “Out  Equal” conference, a summit aimed at forcing corporations into adopting   workplace policies. The company was also praised by gay groups for its “It Gets Better” campaign meant to boost the status of homosexuality in the U. S. In addition, Target raised the ire of many with its decision to   its kids’ sections when, in August of 2015, the chain announced it was eliminating “gender specific” labels and store signage for kids’ clothing and toy sections. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com