Detroit Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander backed off using an “All Lives Matter” hashtag after a backlash on social media. [On Sunday, while viewing the Toronto Blue Jays’ complete their sweep of the Texas Rangers in the American League Divisional Series, Verlander grew impressed with TBS broadcasters singing word for word the Canadian national anthem. Immediately Verlander reflected on “Black Lives Matter” sympathizer Colin Kaepernick and his legion of followers who don’t even stand for America’s national anthem, let alone sing the words.   Just sang the Canadian national anthem on TBS and we here in America can’t stand together for our anthem. #alllivesmatter #TogetherStronger,  —   Justin Verlander (@JustinVerlander) October 10, 2016,  According to sports writer and apparent Kaepernick sympathizer Mike Oz, writing for Yahoo Sports, Verlander made the crucial mistake of mentioning “All Lives Matter,” which Oz contends  “on its face sounds nice, but is mostly used by people to sweep away examples of racial discrimination. ” Not showing much commitment to his previous patriotic tweets, Verlander subsequently apologized for his remarks.  The   righty reversed his position after being inundated on Twitter with a barrage of negative messages over his statements.  I apologize for using # all lives matter. I was uninformed of its racial implications. I completely agree change is necessary! I meant  …      —   Justin Verlander (@JustinVerlander) October 10, 2016,  I meant that I hope we can all stand together to see that change happens.  —   Justin Verlander (@JustinVerlander) October 10, 2016,  Verlander’s fiance swimsuit model Kate Upton also found herself in controversy last month when she expressed her disagreement with Miami Dolphins players kneeling during the national anthem on  : This is unacceptable. You should be proud to be an American. Especially on   when we should support each other.  https:  .   —   Kate Upton (@KateUpton) September 11, 2016,  Several Dolphins players, including Arian Foster, knelt during the national anthem. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   SportsCenter (@SportsCenter) September 11, 2016, 