While accepting an award at the Critics’ Choice Awards, actress Amy Schumer ignored the fact that alleged Lafayette theater gunman John Russell Houser passed a background check for his firearm, and instead described him as “a mentally ill person [who] got their hands on a gun. ”[The difference between reality —  Houser passed a background check with a federally licensed gun dealer —  and Schumer’s gun narrative —  he was mentally ill person who managed to get a hold of a gun —  couldn’t be more stark. The former shows that gun control is impotent to stop committed attackers, while the latter serves Schumer’s purposes by leaving room for the belief that more gun laws and regulations might have prevented Houser from getting a gun.  It should also be noted that on July 27 —  just four days after Houser allegedly opened fire in the Lafayette theater —  a judge who handled a case involving him in Georgia said she never ordered him committed for mental treatment. The Associated Press reported that Houser “came before Cason’s court in 2008 when Houser’s family asked her to intervene in Carroll County, where he had allegedly menaced his daughter and  . ” On April 22, 2008, Cason signed an order “authorizing deputies to detain Houser and take him, against his will if necessary, to a treatment facility for a mental health evaluation. ” He was subsequently “delivered by deputies to [a] hospital for evaluation,” but Cason said no order for commitment followed. Yet Schumer included all the gun control talking points during her award acceptance speech by saying, “I want to thank Mayci Breaux and Jillian Johnson, who died in Lafayette because a mentally ill person got their hands on a gun. But we can end gun violence together. ” Again, this push ignores the fact that the Houser did not acquire his gun in a back alley or out of a car trunk in an abandoned parking lot or from a private seller at a dreaded gun show. He bought it via a background check —  the very kind of check President Obama and Amy Schumer’s cousin, Senator Chuck Schumer ( ) say should be required on every gun sale to keep Americans safe. But Schumer can’t admit this because doing so would undercut the   she has to maintain in order to convince the   that we need more gun control now. Follow AWR Hawkins on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.