Friday, the Congressional Black Caucus held a press conference to address Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump saying today he does believe President Obama was born in the United States.  Several members took turns criticizing the Trump, however the harshest comments from CBC chairman Rep. G. K. Butterfield ( ). “I am indeed the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, but I come to you today in my capacity as a member of the board of the political action committee. This is a disgusting day. Donald Trump is a disgusting fraud. By any definition, Donald Trump is a disgusting fraud. He started this silliness years ago by saying President Obama is not an American citizen. He had no proof of it. So he started this disgusting behavior seven or eight years ago questioning the president’s citizenship. He would not have done that to Mitt Romney. He would not have done that to a John McCain or any other white who was running for president of the United States, but he has leveled this criticism against President Obama. And so he has now been told by his advisers he’s not going to win the presidency unless he can reach out to   voters. ” “His numbers are in the single digits,” he continued. “They will remain in the single digits but his advisers are telling him unless he reaches out to   voters he will lose this election. So instead of being the statesman he should be, instead of going in front of the cameras and apologizing to President Obama, apologizing to the American people for fraudulent behavior, he comes to the microphone —  I will quote what he said. He said, quote, ‘President Obama was born in the United States, period.’ Then he takes his seat and gives a guided tour of the Trump hotel to the news media that was assembled. That’s disgusting. The Congressional Black Caucus find it disgusting. The political action committee finds it disgusting. Every American needs to understand that this man is a fraud. He is an insult to the intellect of the American people. We must defeat him in November. ” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN