After rumors began swirling earlier today, presumptive Democrat presidential nominee Hillary Clinton has chosen Virginia Senator Tim Kaine as a vice presidential running mate. [Clinton made the announcement via a text message to her supporters that read: “I’m thrilled to tell you this first. I’ve chosen Sen. Tim Kaine as my running mate. Welcome him to my team. ” She later tweeted the news, calling Kaine “a man who’s devoted his life to fighting for others. ”  I’m thrilled to announce my running mate, @TimKaine, a man who’s devoted his life to fighting for others.   pic. twitter.   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 23, 2016,  The Kaine pick represents the last death of hope for the more radical wing of the Democrat party that supported Bernie Sanders and were hoping for a running mate such as Senator Elizabeth Warren. Clinton is said to have been looking at other choices such as Senator Cory Booker, who is black, and Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez, who is Hispanic, but instead went with Kaine who is white, male and a consummate Democrat political insider  —   having served as the Chairman of the Democratic National Committee from 2009 until 2011, in addition to stints as Governor and Lieutenant Governor of Virginia after beginning his political career as the Mayor of Richmond. Despite that, the New York Times is touting Kaine as a “battleground state politician with   roots and a fluency in Spanish. ” Already upset Bernie Sanders supporters wasted no time in criticizing the choice. As the Washington Post reported:   …    on Friday, Norman Solomon, the coordinator of a group billing itself as the Bernie Delegates Network, called Kaine “a loyal servant of oligarchy. ” “If Clinton has reached out to Bernie supporters, it appears that she has done so to stick triangulating thumbs in their eyes,” said Solomon, whose organization claims to represent hundreds of Sanders delegates attending the convention in Philadelphia but is not coordinating with the campaign. RNC Chairman Reince Preibus released a statement about Clinton’s choice for veep: “Hillary Clinton’s choice of Tim Kaine does nothing to unify a fractured Democrat base which is repelled by her dishonesty and cronyism,” said RNC Chairman Reince Priebus. “After spending last week pandering to grassroots Democrats with Bernie Sanders, Hillary Clinton has chosen someone who holds positions that she’s spent the entire primary trying to get to the left of. ” “Ultimately this is a ticket that represents one thing: four more years like the last eight, just with more corruption and scandal. A   administration will push our country further down the path President Obama has led us on and that has made us less safe, less prosperous, and less free. More taxes, more debt, more government and more leading from behind on the global stage will not deliver the turnaround our country desperately needs. Americans have had enough of the failed Democrat status quo. “Donald Trump and Mike Pence offer a better path for our country that puts America first. A   administration means more jobs with rising incomes, more security, more freedom, and a conservative Supreme Court. The choice in this election is clear and it’s only the Republican ticket of Donald Trump and Mike Pence that can Make America Great Again. ” In an interview with PBS earlier in the week, Clinton pointed out that Kaine had never lost an election and referred to him as a “ ” politician. When asked if he was boring, Clinton said, “I love that about him. ” Follow Breitbart News investigative reporter and Citizen Journalism School founder Lee Stranahan on Twitter at @Stranahan.