Winning campaign manager for   Donald J. Trump Kellyanne Conway emphasized on Breitbart News Saturday on SiriusXM Patriot Radio Channel 125 that not only did Trump hire her based on her merits, not her gender, but that he was the one who elevated her to the high position in his campaign. [Breitbart News Saturday radio   Sonnie Johnson asked Conway: In Conway’s capacity as the first woman to run a successful presidential campaign, “Did you steal Hillary Clinton’s hammer?” Democratic Party presidential nominee Clinton was the first female nominee of a major party and would have been the first female president of the United States had she not lost the election.  Johnson thanked Conway for allowing her to tell her daughter the morning after the election that Clinton would never be her president. She then told Conway that her daughter then asked if could she meet Kellyanne Conway now. Conway responded graciously, saying that she thinks about people like Johnson’s daughter and her own daughters and her son when she thinks about what this election means. “It honestly means this is an election of the people, for the people, and by the people and I feel, ya know, people will stop me in the street and they’ll say: You all, meaning Mr. Trump and the campaign, but Mr. Trump of course, saved the Supreme Court, saved America, gave us a nice restart button, and that’s for the people. For me it’s especially for future generations. ” Conway continued: So I am told that, I know Hillary Clinton failed to break the glass ceiling, but that I did in being the first female presidential campaign manager that was successful. There were three democratic campaign managers who were female before me, but their candidates lost. So I do, I’m not a big gender person. I know Mr. Trump hired me because of my talents and my skills and not because  —   he put a team together that was amazing  —   and not because of my gender, but at the same time I do feel a special responsibility. And you know what, I do feel like kickin’ up my heels a little because I worked in a Republican Party infrastructure that doesn’t always elevate female consultants to the top and that there’s not always an opportunity. But I want everybody to remember, Sonnie, that it was Donald J. Trump who elevated a woman to the highest position in his campaign, much like he has done in the Trump Corporation for a number of decades, and it is he who gave women responsibilities and it is he, by the way, who did the same among female voters as did Mitt Romney and John McCain for all this talk. I mean the first female President, it did not attract a critical mass of women. I always said, knew and said publicly, probably on Breitbart radio, that she would need about 60 percent of the female vote to win, and she got nowhere near there because she had this reverse gender gap with men. But I’m excited, I want all the little girls out there to know that the lessons are very simple. Be kind your entire life because all the kindness I showed to other people came back to me manifold in this campaign. And secondly and most importantly, if you work hard and you get your shot one day, you too will shine. You have to believe in yourself, don’t listen to the critics, don’t listen to the naysayers. You know who you are. You’re beautiful, you’re smart, you can do it, and that’s my message to all those little girls out there. In August Trump elevated Conway from senior adviser to campaign manager after just a few weeks with the campaign. TIME reported that within a few weeks, Conway had made key changes in the campaign and that she was “breaking through in ways her predecessors could not. ” Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 