Gov. Terry Branstad says he would like for GOP presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) to be defeated in Iowa. [“Branstad said Iowans would make a mistake in supporting Cruz, the current Iowa frontrunner and staunch opponent of the Renewable Fuel Standard,” The Des Moines Register reports.  GOP frontrunner Donald Trump responded to Branstad’s statement on Twitter. Wow, the highly respected Governor of Iowa just stated that “Ted Cruz must be defeated. ” Big shoker! People do not like Ted.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 19, 2016,  Branstad was talking to reporters at the Iowa Renewable Fuels Summit. According to The Des Moines Register, “The standard sets the amount of ethanol and renewable fueled that must be blended into the nation’s fuel supply. ” “Ted Cruz is ahead right now. What we’re trying to do is educate the people in the state of Iowa. He is the biggest opponent of renewable fuels,” Branstad said. “He actually introduced a bill in 2013 to immediately eliminate the Renewable Fuel Standard. He’s heavily financed by Big Oil. So we think once Iowans realize that fact, they might find other things attractive but he could be very damaging to our state. ” Cruz “hasn’t supported renewable fuels, and I think it would be a big mistake for Iowa to support him,” Branstad added. Branstad was asked if he wants to see Cruz beat in Iowa. He replied, “yes. ” The Des Moines Register reports: In 2013, Cruz   legislation introduced by Wyoming Sen. John Barrasso that would have repealed the RFS immediately upon passage. Cruz sponsored his own legislation in 2013 and 2014 that called for a   phase out of the RFS. Branstad said Tuesday that Cruz is “diametrically opposed to what we really care about. ” “We should not support someone who is opposing those things that are critically important to the economic   of our state,” Branstad said. Cruz was questioned about his ethanol stance during his recent bus tour in Iowa and said he approves of phasing out the RFS throughout a   period. Branstad’s comments about Cruz come a week after GOP frontrunner Donald Trump’s son attended a hunt with the Governor. Branstad said he will not be endorsing a candidate.