“Sharia is a totalitarian ideology, and we don’t put up with those,” declared Jim Hanson of the Center for Security Policy, appearing on Friday’s edition of Breitbart News Daily to discuss the Nice terror attack. [Hanson pointed to a paper released by the Center for Security Policy last week, entitled Stop Importing Jihadists: A Policy Prescription. Part of that prescription was “a sharia exclusion ban for entry into the United States,” an idea similar to Newt Gingrich’s proposal for a sharia test.  “Existing immigration law allows us to ban adherents to totalitarian ideologies,” he pointed out. “We don’t even need to change the law. We just need to enforce it against what is not a religion, what is a governmental, and cultural, and   oppressive ideology. So let’s do it. Gingrich was right, Trump’s right, that we shouldn’t let people in from   areas. And all of these things will be about the only thing that’s going to make us safer in the long run. ” SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon highlighted recent hearings in which Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson “continues to just sit there and argue about the Muslim Brotherhood’s impact here in the United States, and their plan for the United States. ” “That’s just it  —   there has been a wholehearted attempt to pretend that there is some generic extremism that we have to protect ourselves against, and that this is not related to anything in particular,” said Hanson. “And that’s absurd. Anyone with an    I. Q. knows who the problem is, knows what the problem is, and it comes from Islam”  —   more specifically, from the Islamic “supremacist ideology. ” “For our government to basically ban and restrict all of our   and security agencies from considering those things, investigating those things, and even being taught or trained that those things are the factors they should take into account, cripples and handcuffs their ability to keep us safe,” Hanson said. “It is willful blindness, and worse than that, it is national security malfeasance. ” Bannon asked if Hanson, as a military veteran, agreed with Fox News host Bill O’Reilly’s call to declare war. “Absolutely,” he replied. “One of the other things the Center has put out is a Secure Freedom Strategy to defeat the global jihad. They declared war on us  —   holy war, jihad  —   and they’ve been prosecuting it vigorously. We need to do the same. ” “That’s not just military action,” Hanson continued. “It needs to be a    approach, which should include some serious butt whoopin’ of the military variety, but also intelligence work, financial work, diplomacy, and cultural war. All of the powers of the United States and our allies should be brought to bear, to crush the terrorists, crush their supporters, and to discredit that ideology, everywhere on the Earth. ” Along those lines, Hanson said the release of the   “28 Pages” of the   Report, which are said to indicate Saudi involvement in Osama bin Laden’s terrorist plot, would not amount to a “smoking gun,” but would be “another factor that points to the Saudis not being our friend or ally. ” “We’re tied to them because we need gas. It might be time to cut those ties, or at least be pushing back a lot harder on it,” Hanson mused. “Because they are not our friends. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 