Several hours after GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump and his running mate Mike Pence began their tour on the ground of the flood ravaged state of Louisiana, Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton literally phoned it in from an unknown location    …     other than Louisiana. [One of her aides told CNN that she is headed to Martha’s Vineyard Friday, where she will celebrate the 70th birthday of her husband, former President Bill Clinton.  President Obama is also currently staying in Martha’s Vineyard on a two week vacation punctuated by a round of golf with television star Larry David and Bain Capital   partner Jonathan Lavine. At 1:10 pm eastern, according to the Associated Press, this entry was posted on Clinton’s Facebook page: I just got off the phone with Governor John Bel Edwards in Louisiana. The flooding there is bigger than anyone expected —  more than 40, 000 homes have been damaged and more than 100, 000 people have been affected. My heart breaks for Louisiana, and right now, the relief effort can’t afford any distractions. The very best way this team can help is to make sure Louisianans have the resources they need. There are two organizations the Governor asked that we help. Chip in right now to the Red Cross at rdcrss.  who are doing critical work to provide medical assistance and supplies to the victims of this natural disaster. You can also donate right now to the Baton Rouge Area Foundation at ””>around 10:30 am eastern, and had a very busy schedule as they toured the Cajun State until they departed at 2:15 pm eastern, as ABC News reported:   2:15 p. m. Donald Trump has left Louisiana after spending more than three hours touring communities devastated by the recent flooding. The GOP nominee visited   neighborhoods, where debris piled up in front lawns and on curbs as people continued to muck out their homes. During the visit, Trump met with first responders who conducted rescues in the flooding even as their own homes were damaged. And he spoke with volunteers at a church that was helping nearby residents with cleanup. Area residents cheered Trump’s visit, lining up along streets to get a glimpse and thanking him for shining a national spotlight on the destruction.  —   —   —   1:55 p. m. Donald Trump struck a somber tone as he toured the flood damage in Louisiana  —   but still managed to get in a jab at President Barack Obama. In brief remarks in Ascension Parish, Trump made an appeal for more aid to the area and said he was “just here to help. ” Trump was also there to strike a contrast to Obama, who is on vacation and has not visited the area. When a woman told Trump she was happy he wasn’t off playing golf, Trump replied: “Somebody is, somebody is that shouldn’t be. ” Trump later added that “nobody understands how bad it is. ” The White House has said Obama has received regular updates about the flooding and the federal response during his vacation. He is due back in Washington on Sunday.  —   —   —   12:30 p. m. Donald Trump is showing his softer side as he consoles Louisiana homeowners hit by devastating flooding. The Republican candidate’s tour of the damage included a stop at the home of Jimmy and Olive Morgan in Denham Springs, Louisiana. As Trump and his entourage visited, the couple was still sweeping out floodwaters from their home. A ruined couch, chair and bedroom furniture are heaped on their lawn. Jimmy Morgan told Trump he spent his 79th birthday on the roof of his house. Asked by Trump about whether he’ll rebuild, Jimmy Morgan replied: “I Just don’t know what we’ll do. ” Trump hugged the man and later told him: “You’re going to rebuild. It’s going to be so beautiful. ” ___, 12:00 p. m. Donald Trump is receiving a warm reception as he tours a   portion of East Baton Rouge Parish in Louisiana. The GOP nominee and his running mate Mike Pence were greeted by a crowd of supporters after visiting a local Baptist church where volunteers have gathered. “Thank you for coming, Mr. Trump,” one woman screamed. “We knew you would be here for us!” another shouted. Trump greeted the crowd, shaking hands and signing hats. But he turned down a plate of the south Louisiana specialty, jambalaya, offered to him. ___, 11:35 a. m. Donald Trump and Mike Pence have stopped at a Baptist church in a heavily damaged portion of East Baton Rouge Parish. The Republican candidates met a group of volunteers who have been cooking meals for flood victims and helping the elderly gut their homes. Trump asked questions about the extent of the damage and thanked volunteers for their efforts. The candidate also met with Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council. Perkins own home was flooded. The prominent Christian conservative says he wants Trump to “let the country know” about the extent of the damage. Many Louisianans feel the flooding has been ignored by the national news. ___, 11:20 a. m. Republican nominee Donald Trump is surveying the damage in   Louisiana. Trump’s motorcade drove early Friday through the   community of Central in East Baton Rouge Parish, where   carpet and flooring, furniture and the entire contents of homes were piled on the curb. In some cases, people who were still mucking out their homes came out to wave at the motorcade. At least 13 people were killed and thousands were displaced in heavy rain that dumped as much as two feet of water on some areas. __, 10:30 a. m. Donald Trump is in Baton Rouge, Louisiana to tour   neighborhoods. Trump landed Friday morning at the Baton Rouge airport and was met on the tarmac by Republicans Rep. Steve Scalise, Lt. Gov. Billy Nungesser and Attorney General Jeff Landry. The Republican candidate  —   wearing his signature “Make America Great Again” hat  —   shook hands briefly with the officials before heading to the motorcade. His running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, also met Trump at the airport and planned to join on the tour. ___