Rep. Linda Sanchez ( ) chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, spoke in both English and Spanish at the Democratic National Convention on Monday evening, highlighting the successes of her Mexican immigrant family and letting the crowd know that she believes Hillary Clinton is “a badass and ready to lead” America. [Speaking in Spanish at the conclusion of her speech, Sanchez said, “Hillary Clinton is badass and ready to lead. Let’s win in November. ” She uttered several phrases in Spanish throughout her talk.  “Who we vote for says a lot about our values,” Sanchez said. She noted that she and her six other siblings are the children of immigrants from Mexico  —   her father, an industrial mechanic, and her mother an elementary school teacher. Together, they put seven children through college. “Donald Trump believes that Mexican immigrants are murderers and rapists,” Sanchez said. (Trump’s actual statement was: “When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best  …     They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people. ”) Sanchez continued, “But what about my parents Donald? Let me tell you what my parents are. They are the only parents in our nation’s   history to send  —   not one  —   but TWO daughters to the United States Congress. ” Her sister, Rep. Loretta Sanchez ( )  —   a candidate for outgoing Sen. Barbara Boxer’s seat  —   joined her on stage. (President Barack Obama has endorsed her rival, California Attorney General Kamala Harris. Vice President Joe Biden has done the same.) “Too many of our children are watching and learning the wrong lessons from Donald Trump,” Sanchez told the crowd, adding: “We know our children aren’t born with hate or racism in their hearts. They learn it from watching the world around them and following the example of the adults in their life. Too many of our children are watching and learning the wrong lessons from Donald Trump. ” In conclusion, Sanchez echoed the same statements made by several political figures before her, attempting to discredit Trump’s “Make America Great Again” campaign slogan. “And Donald, let me just say this: America is great,” Sanchez said with conviction. “It is the country that gave my family the opportunity for a better life, just like all immigrants who came before them. It is because of our diversity that we are the envy of the world. ” Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz