Breitbart News has compiled a list of criminal incidents across the nation from the month of September, 2016, all of which relate to the United States’ immigration crisis. [In the month of September alone, a Turkish immigrant allegedly shot and killed five people in a Washington State mall an Afghan immigrant allegedly planted bombs in New York and New Jersey injuring roughly 30 innocent people a Somali immigrant allegedly stabbed nine people at a Minnesota mall a   illegal alien with a prior DUI conviction allegedly murdered a Kansas sheriff’s deputy an illegal alien and convicted child rapist allegedly shot two California corrections officers an illegal alien with a prior drug arrest, who had been a recipient of Obama’s executive amnesty, allegedly engaged in reckless driving killing a    girl a   deported illegal alien allegedly killed two people on what was described as a crime “rampage” and a Mexican immigrant and Arizona pastor was arrested after it was revealed that he had allegedly molested children for years, many of whom are believed to belong to his church, and for impregnating one of his victims when she was 13 years old.  At the same time, a Department of Homeland Security audit revealed that over 1, 800 foreign nationals who were slated to be deported were instead awarded U. S. citizenship. The below list is by no means exhaustive —  it is simply intended to highlight the scope and scale of the nation’s immigration crisis, which frequently goes unreported or dismissed by establishment media. While the media may report some of these crimes (such as the extensive coverage given to the New York City bombing or the Minnesota mall stabber) their reporting is almost always absent any immigration context. In addition to the crimes committed by people in the country illegally, this list includes crimes attached to individuals whom our government voluntarily chose to admit, or even decided to reward with U. S. citizenship. Got news tips? Email reporters Julia Hahn (jhahn@breitbart. com) and Katie McHugh (kmchugh@breitbart. com). Border Patrol agents arrested Francisco Javier   a Mexican national and   sex offender registered with the Texas Department of Public Safety. In 2008, Cruz was reportedly convicted of indecency with an 11   girl by sexual contact. The illegal alien had been previously deported on October 1, 2010 and has now been charged with illegal  . Juan Navarro Rios, 43, a   previously deported illegal alien was arrested for what was described as a crime “rampage. ” CBS described Rios as “a murderer, carjacker and kidnapper whose reign of terror spanned at least from the city of Dallas to just north of Austin. ” During his “reign of terror,” Rios allegedly shot to death a    man in his vehicle on the shoulder of Texas State Highway Spur 408, he then “opened fire on at least two other vehicles. ” Later that evening, Rios allegedly drove up next to Welton Betts, 44, as he was pumping gas at a Texaco gas station. He allegedly shot and killed Betts, forced Betts’ wife out of the car and stole the vehicle. Betts, a black American who had fallen in love and married his high school sweetheart and raised a family with her, has been described as “a typical Texan: he loved God, his family, hard work, the Cowboys, and his pickup truck. ” Reports note that Rios also allegedly “broke into a home, took the keys to a Lexus, and drove it to Georgetown, Texas, where it was found abandoned. He is also believed to have kidnapped a man at gunpoint Monday morning and then trying to force him to withdraw money from an ATM. Rios set fire to his sister’s apartment in Georgetown, broke through a wall into a neighbor’s apartment, and tried to flee before being captured. He had a gun nearby. ” According to reports, Rios had multiple criminal charges in Williamson County, including felony possession of a controlled substance and burglary of a vehicle. ABC’s WFAA reports that Rios “had so many aliases —  at least eight by last count —  that police aren’t even sure of his real name  …     Records also revealed that he had crossed the U. S.  border at least 35 times, using a passport with a fake name. ” Reports note that the illegal criminal alien was   in his Hispanic community. “In a largely   neighborhood in southern Dallas, everybody knew Juan Navarro Rios as ‘flaco’ [Spanish for ‘skinny’]. ” Two Mexican nationals,    Fernando Limon and    Ramiro Limon, were arrested and are facing four counts of rape of a child. According to reports, the child victims involved were “considerably younger than the    age limit sentencing guidelines involving adults charged with sex crimes against children. ”    Arcan Cetin, a Turkish immigrant, allegedly shot and killed four women and one man at a Washington State mall. It was originally reported Cetin was in the country as a lawful permanent resident, but not a U. S. citizen. However, after documentation surfaced showing he had registered to vote in 2014 and had in fact voted in three elections, new reports now indicate Cetin is a naturalized U. S. citizen. On Twitter, Cetin indicated that he had planned to vote for Hillary Clinton. Cecil Burrows, 23, a known gang member originally from the slums of Mumbai, has been sentenced to 18 months in prison for his role in the 2012 gang rape of a   teenage girl. Burrows decided to record the gang rape on video. Burrows came to the U. S. when he was 12 years old and promptly joined a gang. Even still, the government rewarded him with lawful permanent resident status. The 2012 gang rape was not Burrows’ first   with the law. In 2011, he was charged with theft, but a judge was apparently lenient with him and reportedly spared him jail time, allowing him to go back on the streets and eventually take part in a gang rape the following year. Reports note that the gang rape might never have come to light if one of Burrows’ fellow gang members hadn’t bragged about the rape to his   and showed him the “funny” video recording of the rape, which he had saved on his cellphone. The Washington Post reports that on the   audio recording of the rape, Burrows can be heard “like a coach” giving instructions to the men on how to rape the girl. “The victim could be heard screaming and saying in slurred speech to stop,” the Post writes. “As the recording continues, Burrows could be heard giving instructions, at one point asking, ‘Who’s next? ’” During a   operation, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) arrested 47 illegal aliens from the Washington D. C. and Virginia area who had previously been convicted of crimes. According to ICE’s press release: Fermin Rivera, 28, allegedly beat a puppy to death while trying to break into a neighborhood home. During the attempted burglary, Rivera had broken into the backyard but was met with barking by a small puppy. Surveillance cameras show Rivera subsequently “cornered the   mix, lifted the dog over his head and slammed it down with all his strength on the concrete slab twice. ” River is now reportedly “facing felony counts of animal cruelty charges and attempted burglary charges. ” Rivera is reportedly on an immigration hold. An audit of the Department of Homeland Security released   revealed that 1, 811 foreign nationals, who were supposed to be deported, were instead given U. S. citizenship. The Obama administration shut down the whistleblowing operation that uncovered the massive fraud. Border Patrol agents arrested Milton Omar Perez, a   Salvadoran national convicted of sexual assault against a child, as he attempted to illegally   the U. S. Jorge Huge   41, an illegal alien, confessed to having strangled and beaten to death his      wife, Kara Willingham. Local news reports note that Willingham “was working toward becoming a Registered Nurse so she could help others. ” Willingham is survived by her two young children. Mexican national Edwardo Gallardo was arrested by Border Patrol agents just nine days after he had been deported. According to reports, Gallardo was formally deported on September 9. Gallardo had previously served time in federal prison for illegal   in 2014. Somali immigrant Dahir Adan, who reportedly immigrated to the United States 15 years ago, allegedly stabbed nine people at the Crossroads Center mall in St. Cloud, Minnesota before an   police officer shot and killed him. Adan was reportedly shouting “Allahu Akbar!” during the rampage, and one eyewitness said that Adan asked people in the mall whether they were Muslim. Afghan immigrant Ahmad Khan Rahami, 28, was identified as the suspect responsible for bombings in New Jersey and New York City. Rahami was born in Afghanistan in 1988 and came to the U. S. in 1995. In 2011, the government rewarded Rahami with U. S. citizenship —  granting him all of the protections and benefits that citizenship affords, including the right to vote. Victor Manuel   a 22   illegal alien, confessed to killing Maricarmen   a    Texas AM student in her   apartment. The illegal alien, who was reportedly dating the woman, shot her during an argument. He also accidentally shot himself in the hand. Adrian   a   arrested illegal alien with a prior DUI conviction, allegedly killed a Kansas sheriff’s deputy.   38, was allegedly driving drunk when he crashed his car into the patrol vehicle of Sheriff’s Department Master Deputy Brandon Collins, 45. The Daily Caller reports that “  was previously arrested for DUI in California in 2001 and a traffic violation in Overland Park, Kansas in 2013. ” He was cited for driving without a license and paid a $121 fine after pleading guilty. The Daily Caller writes: “ICE has said they were not notified of either of those arrests. Overland Park is located in Johnson County, which is a ‘sanctuary county’ [  …    ] 41 Action News reported that the Overland park police department that arrested him in 2013 said didn’t notify ICE because, ‘it could be considered profiling because a lot of people of all races are arrested without a proper ID. ’” The Kansas City Star reports that Deputy Collins “would have celebrated his 21st anniversary with the department next month. ” He is survived by his wife and two daughters. Breitbart’s Lee Stranahan reports: An Ethiopian immigrant who was working as a Certified Nursing Assistant in Portland, Oregon is behind bars, charged with rape, unlawful sexual penetration and other sexual contact with patients who were 87 and 94 years old. Around a half dozen other alleged victims came forward after the September 14 arrest of Adeladilew A. Mekonen and he is likely to face “many more charges,” the Washington County Sheriff’s Department confirmed to Breitbart News. As the online record of who is in custody in Washington County shows, the    suspect is currently facing 18 charges. Illegal alien Fernando Fernel   18, faces criminal charges of homicide by reckless driving, two counts of serious injury by reckless driving, child endangerment, operating without a driver’s license and no insurance. On September 8, Aguilar allegedly was speeding when he ran a stop sign and caused a fatal multiple vehicle accident that resulted in the death of a    girl and injured four others. According to reports, Aguilar “told investigators that he had known for at least three days the brakes in his car had been malfunctioning, but he drove the vehicle anyway. ”   is a   “DREAMer” who was exempted from U. S. immigration law by President Obama’s executive amnesty (DACA) for illegal aliens who allegedly arrived in the country as minors. Hillary Clinton is campaigning on protecting and expanding Obama’s executive amnesty. This was not Lopez Aguilar’s first criminal offense: In June, he received a citation of the possession of drug paraphernalia. Pastor Jose Vicente Morales was arrested and faces charges of sexual abuse, child molestation and sexual conduct with a minor. ABC15 reports that, allegedly, “Morales had been molesting children for years” and had “impregnated one of the victims when she was 13 years of age. ” Some of his victims were reportedly members of his church. “One victim accused Morales of molesting her from ages seven to 12, she said she was molested once while in a pool as she was swimming with the man,” ABC15 writes. “Police report that when Morales came to Arizona in 1986 at age 19, he dated an    girl and married her in Mexico when she was 10. After returning to Arizona, he impregnated her when she was just 13. ” Ignacio Andrade Duarte,      who was in the country on a guest worker permit, was denied his motion to withdraw from a plea deal in which he had confessed to two separate incidents in 2014 where he sexually touched a    and a    girl. Duarte pled guilty to one count of child molestation and one count of attempted sexual abuse of a minor. Nogales International reports: “Despite the nature of the charges against him and the fact that he is a citizen of another county, Andrade was never arrested or ordered to post bond. Even after he pleaded guilty, Deputy County Attorney Kimberly Hunley did not ask the judge to have him taken into custody. Andrade fled the state after his    hearing and was eventually arrested in California on Feb. 19 after a nationwide manhunt. ” Michael Steven Sanford, an illegal alien from Great Britian who had overstayed his tourist visa, pled guilty to the illegal possession of a firearm, which he tried to steal from a police officer, in his effort to allegedly murder Republican Presidential candidate Donald Trump at a June campaign event. Sanford also pled guilty to disrupting the orderly conduct of government business and official functions. According to The Associated Press, psychiatrists found that Sanford was “delusional. ” Oscar   an illegal Salvadoran national who had been deported twice in the past two years and was a known   gang member, was arrested and charged for allegedly stabbing a Maryland teenager to death. Back in June, the illegal alien and his accomplices allegedly stabbed Christian   18, “more than 40 times in a park  …     as he begged for his life,” the Washington Post reports. “  ‘directed’ the attack. ” Detectives told the Post that   likely murdered the teen over “gang bragging rights. ” When police apprehended   he reportedly told them, “If I hadn’t been drunk this morning, you guys would never have caught me. ” Illegal alien and Salvadoran national, Elias Josael Jimenes Avardo, 21, was charged with murder of a    woman, Ranarda Williams, in Northwest Baltimore. Police say he is also considered to be a suspect in the murder of another woman, Annquinnette Dates, 48, that took place just one week earlier. Dates and Williams were found strangled to death. Walter Gomes DaSilva, a Brazilian national and   deported illegal criminal alien convicted of trying to kill his wife, reportedly “grinned widely” as he pled guilty to murdering his teenage daughter. The 45   father, who has a “Kiss My Ass” tattoo around his neck, was convicted in 2002 and served 10 years in prison for trying to murder his wife. The Boston Herald reports he “vowed to see his teenage daughter ‘in hell’ as he shot her in the face and pumped her back full of bullets for snubbing him on Father’s Day. ” Two Ecuadorian nationals, Paul Esteban Estrella Villota, 40, and his wife Magaly Alemania Malagon Sandoya, 42, were respectively sentenced to six and five years in federal prison. ICE described the Ecuadorian couple as “ring leaders of an alien smuggling organization that smuggled juveniles into the United States. ” According to ICE, the couple pled guilty to “conspiracy to commit alien smuggling for financial gain resulting in bodily injury, which included a smuggled girl being repeatedly raped by her smugglers. ” Police issued an arrest warrant for Elda Graciela Margez De Zamora, who goes by the name “Mama Elda. ” Zamora was charged with two felony counts for running an illegal, unlicensed dentistry practice out of her Phoenix apartment. ABC15 reports “she told authorities she would return to Mexico if she were released from custody. ” The arrest warrant was issued in earlier September after she failed to show up to a court hearing. Nicodemo   a Mexican national who has been deported five times within the past four years and has prior criminal convictions including three DUIs, is now being investigated in at least 10 cases of sexual assault as well as aggravated kidnapping. Police described   as a “potential serial sexual assault predator. ” KXAN reports that   tried to light one woman on fire with gasoline in an empty field, but the woman was able to escape. The next day,   allegedly kidnapped and sexually assaulted “a    woman after picking her up from a bus stop and taking her to his ‘garden. ’” Border Patrol arrested Francisco Javier   a   convicted murderer, as he, once again, tried to illegally   the United States. As Tucson News Now reports:   was previously convicted in Mexico for the 2003 murder of U. S. Border Patrol agent  …     [who] had been traveling   when   attacked him for being a BP agent.   served 11 years in prison for the killing. This is not the first time BP agents have arrested   in 2002 he was apprehended by the Cochise County Sheriff’s Office for possession of marijuana for transport or sale. He served 108 days in county jail for that offense.   now faces prosecution by the U. S. Attorney’s Office for illegal   of an aggravated felon. Thong Vang, a    illegal Laotian national and convicted child rapist, allegedly shot and critically injured two unarmed California corrections officers. Vang had previously served sixteen years in prison for his ties to   sex ring and for raping three girls under the age of 14. As the Fresno Bee reports, “Court records say Vang was once a leader in the Mongolian Boys Society, a Fresno street gang that engaged in a   ring at a local Motel 6 in the 1990s. ” Following Vang’s parole in 2014, he was supposed to be deported. Instead, Vang was released into the U. S. interior. Immigration experts say he was released to roam free because Hillary Clinton failed to follow U. S. immigration law and take actions to force his home country to take him back. Jose Edelberto Garcia, a Salvadoran illegal alien and convicted felon who had at least three additional misdemeanors, was arrested on charges of first degree forcible rape and first degree force sex offense. Four Mexican nationals (Bernabe   28, Carlos   51, Julia   50, and Cristobal   43) were indicted for their alleged participation in a “  meth ring. ” The Houston Chronicle reports that investigators from the Drug Enforcement Administration believe the defendants moved more than 15 pounds of methamphetamine. Both   and   were previously rewarded with legal status as lawful permanent residents.