MCALLEN, Texas —   A Pakistani man was caught illegally entering the United States last week. Recently unsealed court documents revealed the man had been lying to the FBI about his journey into America. [On Tuesday, Javaid Muhammad went before U. S. Magistrate Judge  Dorina Ramos who ordered he be held without bond. The charge filed against Muhammad in addition to him illegally entering the country, deals with lying or concealing information to federal agents. If convicted he could face up to five years in prison.   The criminal complaint field against Muhammad by the FBI revealed that on May 8, he had illegally entered the country and had been arrested by U. S. Border Patrol. During the interview with agents, Muhammad gave authorities an account of his journey form Pakistan to America.  Four days later, Muhammad met with the FBI. During that interview agents asked him if he had ever visited or lived in Ecuador or Chile.  Muhammad claimed that he had never been there and that he had never been issued a passport from a country other than Pakistan.   The FBI revealed that they had photographs of Muhammad’s Ecuadoran passport and a residence card from the Republic of Chile. When faced with the new information, Muhammad told the FBI that he had lied to both the U. S. Border Patrol and the FBI about his travel to America. In November 2015, Breitbart Texas Managing Director Brandon Darby and Associate Editor Bob Price reported that five Pakistani men and a man from Afghanistan were captured about 16 miles north of the   border. The men were turned over to FBI agents before Border Patrol agents could conduct any kind of extensive interview. This discovery came just days after Breitbart Texas reported that eight Syrians had been taken into custody as they attempted to cross into Texas at an international bridge in Laredo. Ildefonso Ortiz is an award winning journalist with Breitbart Texas you can follow him on Twitter and on Facebook. Court Documents for Pakistani Illegal Alien in Texas by BobPriceTX, 