Four years ago, the city of Charlotte hosted President Barack Obama as he received the Democratic Party’s nomination for   to the White House. This week, it has suffered violent riots over the police shooting of Keith Lamont Scott. [Scott, who is black, was allegedly armed at the time of his confrontation with police on Tuesday. The officer who shot him is also black. One person was shot and gravely wounded by a fellow civilian on Wednesday, during a second night of violence, the latest to mar the Black Lives Matter movement.  The Charlotte Observer reports that protest began peacefully: At about 4:30 Wednesday, a group of two dozen protesters stood in front of the Bank of America Tower at Trade and Tryon streets. They silently stood and held signs reading “Black Lives Matter” and “Stop Killing Us. ” Andrew Monroe said the protest was organized informally by a group of black professionals. “What we want to do is show we’re not dangerous,” he said. “We want to show the world it’s not thugs out here. ” Monroe said black people deserve to be safe in the streets and don’t feel that way in the spate of recent police shootings. Across town at UNC Charlotte, students gathered at the Union and laid down in protest. It noted that the violence began around 8:30 p. m.: Protests had remained peaceful in uptown on Wednesday, after the fatal police shooting of Keith Lamont Scott. But the scene turned chaotic after 8:30 p. m. when protesters went from Marshall Park to the EpiCentre dining and entertainment complex and the Omni on Trade Street. Gunfire erupted in the crowd, and one protester was wounded. He was initially reported to have been killed, but that report was later corrected to indicate that he was critically wounded, and on life support. One of the shooting victims at the ‘peaceful’ #Charlotte ‘protest’ (police not involved) pic. twitter.   —   LucidTheDeplorable✘ (@LucidHurricane_) September 22, 2016,  GRAPHIC: Civilian on civilian shooting at #CharlotteProtest. Rioters are claiming it was a police shooting. pic. twitter.   —   Tazer Swift (@CrashnDaPlane) September 22, 2016,  The demonstration then refused to disperse and grew more violent. Police attempted to use tear gas to end the protest, as North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory declared a state of emergency and deployed the National Guard and the State Highway Patrol to assist local law enforcement. Fresh round of tear gas fired at protestors. Rubber bullets being fired. Protestors scatter. #CharlotteProtest pic. twitter.   —   Heather Lacy (@Heather_Lacy1) September 22, 2016,  Protestors huddle in pkg garage after getting hit by tear gas. Pour milk in eyes  mouth. Say do not use water in eyes. #CharlotteProtest pic. twitter.   —   Heather Lacy (@Heather_Lacy1) September 22, 2016,  Meanwhile, looting and attacks on property spread throughout the downtown area. In one particularly chilling moment, a CNN reporter was assaulted during a live shot on the scene. CNN reporter just got attacked on air. pic. twitter.   —   Jimmy (@JimmyPrinceton) September 22, 2016,  The reporter later said that the man who attacked him came back to apologize. Other journalists were also attacked, including a photographer who was allegedly unconscious when rioters tried to toss him into a fire.  #WCCB witnessed protesters try to throw still photographer into fire in Uptown #Charlotte. https:  .  #CharlotteProtest #news pic. twitter.   —   WCCB, Charlotte’s CW (@WCCBCharlotte) September 22, 2016,  Meanwhile, the destruction spread. One unlikely target was the Charlotte Hornets team store: PHOTO: Charlotte Hornets team store gutted: #CharlotteProtest LIVE: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   11Alive News (@11AliveNews) September 22, 2016,  Other targets included local shops and apartment buildings: WIndow smashed, vehciles damaged following protests in Uptown #Charlotte tonight. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   FOX 46 Charlotte (@FOX46News) September 22, 2016,  Photo from @katieperalta from the #CharlotteProtest. Wow. pic. twitter.   —   Jacob Goldstein (@GoldsteinStreet) September 22, 2016,  Protester kicking and breaking apartment windows on live tv #CharlotteProtest pic. twitter.   —   gifdsports (@gifdsports) September 22, 2016,  The demonstration later moved to local interstate highways, such as the   and  : #KeithLamontScott protesters shut down   at WT Harris early Wednesday morning. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   FOX 46 Charlotte (@FOX46News) September 21, 2016,  Protesters have shut down   in Uptown #Charlotte. WATCH LIVE: https:  .  #WCCB #cltnews #CharlotteProtest #keithlamontscott pic. twitter.   —   WCCB, Charlotte’s CW (@WCCBCharlotte) September 22, 2016,  The Observer reports that the city was calm by 5:00 a. m. Thursday. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.