Immigration is the new “No   the Whales” movement, only with more body bags. [After the mass murder committed by Muslims in San Bernardino, which came on the heels of the mass murder committed by Muslims in Paris, Donald Trump proposed a moratorium on Muslim immigration.  Explaining the idea on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” he talked about how Muslim immigration was infecting Europe: “Look at what happened in Paris, the horrible carnage.   …     We have places in London and other places that are so radicalized that the police are afraid for their own lives. We have to be very smart and very vigilant. ” Trump’s reference to London’s   zones was met with a massive round of sneering, which is what passes for argument in America these days. Jeb! said Trump was “unhinged,” Sen. John McCain called him “foolish,” and former vice president Dick Cheney said Trump’s remarks went “against everything we stand for and believe in. ” (Based on Trump’s crushing primary victories, Cheney is no longer qualified to say what “we” believe in.) To prove Trump wrong, reporters called British authorities and asked them: Are you doing your jobs? They responded, Why, yes we are! The head of London’s police said, “Mr. Trump could not be more wrong,” and London mayor Boris Johnson called Trump’s comments “utter nonsense. ” Within days, however, scores of    London policemen begged to differ with their spokesmen, leading to the following headlines: UK Daily Mail: ‘TRUMP’S NOT WRONG  —   WE CAN’T WEAR UNIFORM IN OUR OWN CARS’: Five Police Officers Claim Donald Trump Is Right About Parts of London Being So ‘Radicalised’ They Are   Areas, The Sun: ‘THERE ARE   AREAS IN LONDON’: Policemen Back Trump’s Controversial Comments, UK Daily Express: ‘TRUMP IS RIGHT!’ Police Say Parts of Britain Are   Areas due to ISIS Radicalisation, Then, in January of this year, Trump talked specifically about the Muslim invasion of Brussels on the Maria Bartiromo show. “There is something going on, Maria,” he said. “Go to Brussels.   …     There is something going on and it’s not good, where they want Sharia law   …     There is something bad going on. ” The New York Times headlined a story on the interview: “Donald Trump Finds New City to Insult: Brussels. ” News is no longer about communicating information it’s about imparting an attitude. Trump is rude, so whether he’s right is irrelevant. As the saying goes, “Better dead than rude. ” Indignant Belgians took to Twitter, the Times reported, “deploying an arsenal of insults, irony and humor, including images of Belgium’s beloved beer and chocolate. ” Liberals have gone from not understanding jokes to not understanding English. When Trump talked about unassimilated Muslim immigrants demanding Sharia law, I don’t think he was knocking Belgium’s beer and chocolate. Rudi Vervoort, the president of the Brussels region (who evidently survived this week’s bombing) rebuked Trump, saying, “We can reassure the Americans that Brussels is a multicultural city where it is good to live. ” After multiculturalism struck this week, Vervoort said, “I would like to express my support to the victims of the attacks of this morning   …    ” Twitter bristled with supportive hashtags, the Belgian flag and professions of solidarity. The Times editorialized: “Brussels, Europe, the world must brace for a long struggle against this form of terrorism. ” All this would be perfectly normal if we were talking about an earthquake or some other natural disaster  —   something humans have no capacity to prevent. But Muslims pouring into our countries and committing mass murder isn’t natural at all. It’s the direct result of government policy. It’s as if the government were dumping rats in our houses, and then, whenever someone died of the plague, those same government officials issued heartfelt condolences, Twitter lit up with sympathetic hashtags and the Times editorialized about effective rodent control, but no one ever bothered to say, Hey! Maybe the government should stop putting rats in our houses! When people are killing in the name of their religion, it’s not an irrelevancy to refuse to keep admitting more practitioners of that religion. But this is the madness that has seized Europe and America  —   a psychosis Peter Brimelow calls “Hitler’s revenge. ” Apparently, what we have learned from Hitler is not: Don’t kill Jews. To the contrary, the only people who openly proclaim their desire to kill Jews are   …     Muslims. What we’ve learned from Hitler is not: Don’t attempt to seize hegemonic control over entire continents. The only people vowing to conquer the world are   …     Muslims. And what we’ve learned from Hitler is not: Beware violent uprisings of angry young men. The only hordes of violent, angry young men are, again   …     Muslims. (And Trump protesters.) But instead of learning our lesson and recoiling with horror at this modern iteration of Nazism, we welcome the danger with open arms  —   because the one and only lesson we’ve learned from Hitler is: DON’T DISCRIMINATE! COPYRIGHT 2016 ANN COULTER DISTRIBUTED BY UNIVERSAL UCLICK