In yet another example of the left inciting violence against Donald Trump supporters, graffiti urging death on Trump voters appeared in Boston only two days before Election Day. [A crude   sign that demands “Kill Your Local Trump Supporter” appeared on Sunday on a wall of a building on St. Alphonsus Street in Boston, the Boston Herald reported.  The defaced building is owned by the Museum of Fine Arts and houses studios and exhibition space. The graffiti is on a wall facing one of the facility’s parking lots. The violent message was so disgusting, even a Hilary supporter called it “ridiculous. ” “I think it’s ridiculous. It’s violent and unnecessary,” Hillary voter   told the paper. “I think it’s overkill on how we view each other as people. It’s outrageous where we’ve gotten to as a nation. ” Massachusetts State Representative Geoff Diehl told the Herald that this sort of violence from the left has become all too common this year. “It’s been a disturbing trend in this presidential cycle,” Diehl said, “that there’s been people recruited from the left to attack Trump rallies and now we’re seeing what is turning into desperation on the side of the Clinton campaign to bully Trump voters into not coming out on Tuesday. ” This type of graffiti is only par for the course as the left ramps up attacks against Trump supporters across the country. Not only have businesses and private homes been defaced by   property destruction, so, too, have many GOP and Trump campaign offices across the nation. In the last few months, several campaign offices have been defaced by liberals angry over the election. Most recently the GOP office in Denver, Colorado, was defaced twice in the same day. In addition, two offices in North Carolina were attacked, one in Allamance County and the other in Hillsborough. Outrageously, the Hillsborough campaign office was firebombed and destroyed by  . Violence against Trump supporters and vandalism of homes has also been common this campaign season. Reports have been seen of attacks on individuals, including a shocking video showing two young, white Trump fans being attacked and beaten by a large group of Hispanics in California. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.