GOP presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) tells an interviewer that GOP frontrunner Donald Trump is “taking advantage of his voters” who “are uninformed” and “have relatively low information. ”[“Donald has done well in the southeastern states,” Cruz said in an interview with The Brody File’s David Brody of CBN News.  He has had a good base of support. We’ve done well as well, we’ve been typically second in each of those states, and we’ve racked up delegates. Now, Donald has a harder problem in the west. It’s interesting, his location, he does well in the southeast. He does well with a certain demographic of voter. Donald gave a press conference where he said, to quote him, ‘I love the poorly educated.’ Listen, part of it is I think Donald is taking advantage of his voters because I understand what they’re angry about, but Donald if you’re angry at the corruption of Washington, you don’t solve it by supporting someone who has been enmeshed in the Washington corruption for forty years. Cruz continued by arguing that “for four decades, Donald has been supporting left wing Democratic politicians —  he supported Jimmy Carter over Ronald Reagan, he supported Joe Biden and Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer, he supported John Kerry over George W. Bush. ” “He gave money twice to Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign in 2008,” Cruz added of Trump. If you’re frustrated with the Washington corruption, the answer is not to vote for someone who’s been one of the key corrupters. You know, you look at immigration —  supposedly, Donald, his signature issue. During the “Gang of Eight” immigration fight, Donald was funding the “Gang of Eight” —  the eight members of the “Gang of Eight. ” Donald financially supported five of them —  gave over $50, 000 to five of them. So what is happening, Donald does well with voters who have relatively low information, who are not that engaged and who are angry and they see him as an angry voice. Where we are beating him, is when voters get more engaged and they get more informed. Cruz added, “When they inform themselves, they realize his record. He’s what they’re angry at and if you want someone to stand up to Washington the only one who has been doing so in this race is me. ” In response to a request for comment, Cruz spokeswoman Catherine Frazier doubled down on Cruz’s statements. “Campaigns are all about informing voters,” Frazier said in an email. Cruz has the greatest respect for all voters which is why he has strived to make this a campaign about the substantive   not personality or personal attacks. As voters learn more about Donald Trump, we believe they will realize he’s not right for our country. And as they learn more about Ted Cruz, we believe they will see him as the leader we need to turn our country around and choose him to be that leader.