Poll results have found that a majority of voters support the legislation known as the   Unborn Child Protection Act, a measure that would restrict abortions past the fifth month of pregnancy. [The survey’s results show that 64 percent of voters nationwide favor the   Unborn Child Protection Act, with 43 percent strongly supporting it. Additionally, 78 percent of millennial voters support the legislation, as do 67 percent of women, 70 percent of blacks, and 57 percent of Hispanic voters.  According to the poll: Among the 64% of respondents who support the legislation, more than two in three of them strongly support the bill, while among the 28% who oppose the legislation, 3 in 4 of them strongly oppose the bill. While this legislation conjures sharp support and opposition on both sides of the issue, voters are about twice as likely to strongly support the measure (43%) than to strongly oppose the legislation (22%). The poll was conducted by the polling company, Inc.  a firm that was founded and run by Kellyanne Conway,   Donald Trump’s campaign manager and a current adviser to the transition team. The survey of 824 voters was conducted on Election Day, November 8, 2016, at a   Telephone Interviewing (CATI) facility using live callers. The poll’s margin of error is ±3. 4 percent at the 95 percent confidence interval. In a letter published by the   Susan B. Anthony List (SBA)   Donald Trump pledged to sign the legislation into law. The letter contained four   commitments, including one to eliminate Planned Parenthood’s taxpayer funding. “Last year Donald Trump told CBN that the United States ‘should not be one of seven countries that allows elective abortions after 20 weeks. It goes against our core values,’” SBA List’s President Marjorie Dannenfelser said. “A majority of voters  —   including women, young people, Hispanics, and African Americans  —   agree. ” “  voters who were key to victory on election night are eager to see a   White House and Congress address the horrific reality of   abortion in America,” she added. “We urge Congress to take up this legislation as soon as possible so that as many as 18, 000 lives a year will be saved. ” Kristan Hawkins, who heads Students for Life of America, the nation’s largest organization of millennial   activists, told Breitbart News she is not surprised that the poll’s results show a high percentage of young people support ending   abortions. “It’s no surprise millennials are the group most in favor of banning abortions after 20 weeks,” she explained. “They’ve grown up with ultrasound technology, seeing preborn babies clearly and undeniably human. This is yet one more reason why Planned Parenthood and the abortion industry are so out of touch with young people. They are pushing their   agenda to a generation that has seen through their lies. ” “For the new Trump administration, signing the 20 week ban into law should be a top priority,” Hawkins added, “especially since this poll and others show that a significant majority of Americans agree that this nation should not allow this horrible practice of aborting babies who feel pain to continue. ” A recent Marist poll also shows that eight out of ten Americans agree that abortion should be limited to  —   at most  —   the first three months of pregnancy.