The Huffington Post published an article Wednesday entitled, “The Beautiful Reasons Why These Women Love Wearing A Hijab. ” In publishing propaganda like this, the Huffington Post would be in danger of losing its credibility  —   that is, if it had any. [They are relentless proselytizers for Islam, and their imperative to cover for and spread jihad goes into overdrive after every deadly jihad attack.  Wednesday’s article has them on a hijab jihad. In the article, “The Huffington Post asked women from all over the Internet to show just how beautifully diverse the hijab can be using the hashtag #HijabToMe. ” This was followed by photo after photo of Muslimas in headwraps. How is that beautifully diverse? Their heads are all covered. They’re all subjugated. Why is the Huffington Post ramming the hijab down our throats? No one is stopping these Muslimas from wearing the hijab. The hijab is a political statement, not a religious mandate. Mark Steyn says in his book America Alone that “there is no evidence that any Muslim woman anywhere ever wore the jilbab before the disco era, when it was taken up by the Muslim Brotherhood and others in the Arab world. It is no more ancient and traditional than platform shoes, bell bottoms, and cheesecloth shirts. ” Since no one stops these women from wearing the Islamic headdress, why is it news? Where is the Huffington Post’s accompanying piece on Jewish women’s traditions? Where is its piece on Sikh and Hindu women’s traditions? Or does Islam only get this kind of special treatment? We know the answer. The real news angle regarding the hijab is not that women from different areas wear it. The real hijab news angle concerns the women and girls who suffer brutal beatings and are sometimes even killed because they dare to say out loud that they don’t want to wear it. It is women who don’t wear the cloth coffin, the ambulatory body bag (aka the burka) in Muslim countries under the sharia who are beaten, arrested and at times killed. Even in Western countries, girls such as Aqsa Parvez in Canada, Jessica Mokdad in Michigan, Noor Almalaki in Arizona have been honor murdered for not wearing hijab. Other girls such as Rifqa Bary have been beaten by their Muslim parents because they refused to wear Islamic garb. This kind of thing happens around the world. Amina Muse Ali, a Somali Christian, was murdered because she wasn’t wearing a hijab. 40 women were murdered in Iraq in 2007 for not wearing the hijab. Alya  ’s Muslim cousin threatened to kill her and harm her family because she stopped wearing the hijab in Britain. Amira Osman Hamid faced whipping in Sudan for refusing to wear the hijab. An Egyptian girl, also named Amira, committed suicide after being brutalized for her family for refusing to wear the hijab. Muslim and   teachers at the Islamic College of South Australia were told that they had to wear the hijab or be fired. Chechen women were shot with paintballs by police because they weren’t wearing hijab. Other women in Chechnya were threatened by men with automatic rifles for not wearing hijab. Elementary school teachers in Tunisia were threatened with death for not wearing hijab. Syrian schoolgirls were forbidden to go to school unless they wore hijab. Women in Gaza were forced by Hamas to wear hijab. Women in Iran protested against the regime by daring to take off their   hijab. Women in London were threatened with death by Muslim thugs if they didn’t wear hijab. One anonymous young Muslim woman who doffed her hijab outside her home and started living a double life in fear of her parents. Here is what the slaves over at the Huffington Post don’t get. The more they ram this Islamic supremacist propaganda down our throats, the more turned off people get. It is insulting for the Huffington Post to say that “the number of Islamophobic attacks continues to rise in the United States, so, too, does the fear among Muslim women, especially those who wear hijab, that they’ll be victims of violence. ” There are few “Islamophobic attacks,” and Muslim women have nothing to fear. European women and girls, on the other hand, have much to fear from the invasion of Muslim migrants who are raping and attacking them in an epidemic of sex attacks. Where’s the Puff Ho’s report on them? Millions of Christians in the Middle East have been slaughtered by Muslims  —   where’s the Puff Ho’s news report on that? The Huffington Post is not a news site. It is a propaganda and smear site, and it serves at the pleasure of our enemies  —   foreign and domestic. Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.