WASHINGTON  —   The Federal Reserve is struggling to adapt to an economy that refuses to boom. The Fed said on Wednesday, after a   meeting of its   committee, that it would not raise its benchmark interest rate, and that future increases were most likely to unfold at a slower pace. The   period since the end of the Great Recession has become one of the longest economic expansions in American history and, at the same time, one of the most disappointing. The Fed, in a statement announcing its decision, noted what had become a typical mix of good news and bad. Economic output has increased while job growth has slowed, the Fed said. Consumers are spending more while companies are making fewer investments. Exports are rebounding, but Britain’s June 23 referendum on whether to leave the European Union could set off another round of disruptions. “Recent economic indicators have been mixed, suggesting that our cautious approach to adjusting monetary policy remains appropriate,” the Fed chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, told a news conference. The decision to wait was unanimous. Even Esther L. George, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, who voted to raise rates at the Fed’s last few meetings, agreed this time that the moment was not ripe. “The labor market appears to have slowed down, and we need to assure ourselves that the underlying momentum in the economy has not diminished,” Ms. Yellen said. Investors already are heavily discounting the chances of a rate increase at the Fed’s next meeting in July, or at the following meeting in September. Those chances, derived from asset prices, stood at 12 percent and 28 percent respectively on Wednesday, according to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. In this environment of tepid growth and weak inflation, Fed officials once again dialed back their expectations for future rate increases. The Fed in December had predicted four rate increases this year. On Wednesday, the Fed released new projections showing that 15 of its 17 policy makers now expected no more than two increases this year, and six of those officials predicted just one. Even more striking, the median prediction of Fed officials was that the central bank’s benchmark rate would rise to just 2. 4 percent by the end of 2018, down from the March median of 3 percent. That suggests officials increasingly regard mediocre global economic growth as an enduring malaise. The Fed also appears increasingly open to the view that a shift in basic economic dynamics, driven by factors like lower productivity growth and an aging population, is holding down interest rates. That means low rates are less stimulative than they would have been in earlier eras. “It means that long rates can remain low without causing the economy to overheat, and therefore the urgency of tightening is very substantially diminished,” said Andrew Levin, a Dartmouth College economist. Markets are even more pessimistic than the Fed. The yield on the benchmark   Treasury fell to 1. 574 percent, the lowest level since 2012. That is part of a broader decline in global rates that, in recent days, also has sent the yield on   German debt below zero for the first time. Equity markets, which in recent years have often celebrated when central banks hold down rates, also declined modestly on Wednesday. The Standard  Poor’s   index fell 0. 18 percent to close at 2, 071. 50. Fed officials increasingly think the economy has exited its postcrisis period, according to economic projections the central bank published on Wednesday. The recovery, in other words, may not be complete, but it is over. Most officials predicted stable growth around 2 percent over the next few years, and they foresaw little if any additional decline in the unemployment rate, which fell to 4. 7 percent in May, the lowest level unemployment had reached since 2007, before the recession. But economic growth has disappointed expectations, and the Fed’s benchmark rate remains in a range between 0. 25 and 0. 5 percent after a single rate increase last December. As recently as late May, Ms. Yellen predicted the Fed would raise rates in “the coming months. ” On Wednesday, she downgraded a summer move to “not impossible. ” Jon Faust, an economist at Johns Hopkins University and a former adviser to Ms. Yellen, said the Fed was standing still because the basic economic situation had been remarkably stable. For the last several years, the labor market has gradually improved while inflation has been sluggish. “I suspect that the core policy developments have never been so static for so long,” Mr. Faust wrote. Under those circumstances it makes perfect sense for the Fed to watch and wait. Consumer spending has driven domestic economic growth, and Ms. Yellen said she expected the trend to continue on the back of job growth and rising wages. But Fed officials were surprised by the slow pace of job growth in May, when the economy was estimated to have added just 38, 000 jobs. And a Fed index that summarizes labor market conditions has fallen to the lowest level in seven years. Officials also have expressed increased concern about inflation expectations, which play a significant role in determining future inflation. (Workers, for example, may seek larger raises if they expect prices to rise more quickly.) The University of Michigan’s consumer survey reported last week that consumers expected 2. 3 percent annual inflation in five years, the lowest level in the survey’s history. Ms. Yellen emphasized again on Wednesday that Fed officials also saw significant risks in moving too quickly. Because interest rates already are low, the Fed has little room to ease conditions if growth falters. Officials say it will be easier to respond to faster inflation than to an economic downturn. Some economists see evidence that the Fed itself is playing a role in the slowdown. The Fed raised rates in December for the first time since the financial crisis, and officials have made clear that they would like to keep raising rates. Moreover, the decline in the Fed’s projection of   interest rates suggests that the Fed may have underestimated the impact of its actions in December. But Ms. Yellen said on Wednesday that the Fed’s move in December amounted to a small adjustment in rates, and that she did not agree with critics that it had an outsize impact. “I really don’t think that a single rate increase in December has had much significance for the outlook,” she said.