Armstrong Williams, radio host and former senior adviser to the presidential campaign of Dr. Ben Carson, joined host Stephen K. Bannon on Monday morning’s edition of Breitbart News Daily to discuss Europe’s response to terrorism after the Brussels bombing and declaring the European Union failed to protect Europeans from Muslim terrorists.  Williams said questions about   intelligence, border controls, the European Union’s refugee policy, and “eventually, the whole project of European integration” would be raised in the aftermath of the Brussels atrocity. “What has been confirmed is what many people thought after the November 13 Paris attacks,” he said.   “The European Union has failed, drastically, to protect its citizens from terrorism.  Many European countries dealt with terrorism before, let us not forget that, but not always effectively,” he continued. “You remember the IRA, the Basque ETA, the Red Brigades in Italy, the Belgians  …     All of them either had limited capabilities, or avoided, most of the time, the intentional targeting of citizens. Now these European countries face a new type of terrorism, and what it does, it wants to inflict massive casualties on the populations of Europe. ” Williams said this new brand of terrorism represented a “clash of civilizations between the West and Islam,” in which Islamist groups like ISIS sought to “spark a racist backlash against Europe’s Muslim communities, and gain more recruits. ”  Also, these terrorist attacks had caused a “crisis of confidence” in European government, which could lead to “a new era of intolerance and nationalism. ” He noted the economic damage inflicted by “multiple bombings against soft, but   targets in the Belgian capital,” resulting in the loss of commerce and tourism, and concluded the attacks had “a level of organization and sophistication that clearly took the Belgian authorities by surprise,” as the Paris terror attacks had “clearly taken the French by surprise. ” “This European Union experiment is not working,” Williams declared.  “At least in the United States  —   I’m a Second Amendment guy  —   at least you have to think twice before you go into these different places, because you never know who’s packing in the United States. ” He pointed out that even populist resistance to terrorism was encountering obstacles in Europe, as events have been called off because the government said it couldn’t guarantee the safety of demonstrators  …     resulting in a Brussels “March Against Fear” getting canceled due to fear. “Can you imagine giving this kind of energy, this kind of bravado to the terrorists?” Williams marveled.  “I mean, it was a march through the streets of Brussels, in solidarity with those killed in the terror attacks on the city.  It was canceled, not just out of concerns over security  —   it was announced they didn’t have the capability to protect them.  In other words, if ISIS among you  —   if the terrorists themselves are among you in this march  —   there’s nothing we can do if they decide to take your life.  What kind of message is that?” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00AM to 9:00AM EST. Listen to the full interview with Armstrong Williams: 