Milo Yiannopoulos sat down with Dave Rubin of The Rubin Report on Tuesday to discuss “[destroying] the Republican party” and his support for Donald Trump.[  Although Yiannopoulos told Joe Rogan on the Joe Rogan Experience in September that he was merely “enjoying the spectacle” of the Trump candidacy, his views have since “evolved. ” “I care about all the things you care about. And I see the best way to accomplish what we collectively want is to throw our lot in with a politician that doesn’t look like the rest of them, that terrifies the rest of them,” Yiannopoulos told Rubin. “The prospect of a Trump candidacy, of a Trump presidency terrifies not just liberals but conservatives too. Because he threatens to blow apart the political consensus. ” When pressed by Rubin about blowing up consensus, Yiannopoulos responded: “When I see GOP politicians telling CNN reporters, ‘the public doesn’t pick the candidate, we pick the candidate’ I just think to myself, you deserve to burn. These people don’t like the public. They don’t like their own electorate. The Republican party has become as hostile to its own base as liberals have always been. ” In regards to political correctness, Yiannopoulos believes that Trump  “represents the best hope we have of smashing political correctness apart  —   of breaking open all of the taboos, all of the stuff you’re not supposed to say. Allowing real debate to be had again. In America, it’s impossible to have an honest discussion about the wage gap. ” Perhaps most importantly, Yiannopoulos had a message for the   leftists, telling Rubin, “Trump is a direct creation of the progressive left. He exists because of the people that we both hate. ” “I think a [Trump presidency] would destroy the Republican party, they will never win another election. I think the same thing will happen on the left,” he continued. “I want a new political   on   lines rather than left and right. I want a new consensus to emerge of disaffected liberals, classical liberals, dissident minorities,   conservatives, libertarians  —   people who want to be left alone. People who believe that government should have some limited functions, but our culture should not be policed, our language should not be policed. We should be able to do, be, say, think, and act however we please. ” Yiannopoulos made it clear that Trump resonates with disaffected Americans because they are fed up with the establishment. “What Trump supporters primarily are reacting to is being lied to and lied about for decades by the establishment. For me, Trump is a very necessary correction to that,” he argued. “He is a part of the cultural libertarian movement  …     He is the ultimate icon of that movement. ” Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta.