Professors at Florida International University (FIU) are now demanding the institution implement “sanctuary campus” policies where illegal immigrant students would be shielded from federal immigration laws. [In a letter to university officials, professors from FIU’s gender and anthropological studies departments asked that the university “develop a plan for protecting undocumented students and refuse to cooperate with any efforts to identify, detain, or deport undocumented students even if DACA is repealed or any other laws or policies change,” the Miami New Times reported.  “DACA” is the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals enforced by the Obama Administration, which allows illegal immigrant students to go to college legally. Under   Donald Trump’s proposed immigration crackdown, DACA would likely be thrown out, asking illegal immigrants to return home and enter through the country legally. The letter goes on to claim that Trump’s proposed immigration policies have students “worried,” writing “As educators at Florida International University, one of the largest and most diverse American universities   …     our top priority is our students. ” “We are deeply worried about the dangers of a Trump presidency to their   and to the educational mission of our university,” the university professors continued. “This movement draws on a tradition of providing safe haven to vulnerable populations that dates back to the refusal of individuals and institutions to comply with fugitive slave laws,” the professors wrote. “In that spirit, we call on our administration to declare Florida International University a sanctuary. ” Sanctuary campus policies like the FIU policy being proposed mirrors sanctuary city policies, which allow cities in the country to circumvent federal immigration law and protect illegal immigrants who are accused of committing violent crimes. In Philadelphia, where sanctuary city policies take precedent, the local police released a Dominican national who was accused of child rape, as Breitbart Texas reported. Under such sanctuary campus policies, illegal immigrant students who commit violent crimes on or off campus would be shielded from deportation. John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.