Sunday, on CBS’ “Face the Nation,” while commenting on the Americas racial divide emphasized by the police shootings in Louisiana and Minnesota and a sniper targeting and killing five Dallas police officers, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani (R) said Black Lives Matter is “  and it’s racist. ”  Partial transcript as follows: JOHN DICKERSON: The  —   just a final question, sir. You said that the Black Lives Matter movement has put a target on the back of police officers. When members of the   community see videos, as they have this week, they feel like there is a target on young black men. Explain your response about how they’ve put a target on police officers, how that can match up when people see these videos. GIULIANI: Well, when they talk about killing police officers. DICKERSON: But they don’t  —   GIULIANI: When they sing  —   well, they sure do. They sing rap songs about killing police officer, s and they talk about killing police officers, and they yell it out at their rallies and the police officers hear it. DICKERSON: But, Mr. Mayor, what you seem to be doing is taking  —   GIULIANI: And the reality is  —   please, please let me finish. And when you say black lives matter, that’s inherently racist. DICKERSON: Well, I think their argument would  —   GIULIANI: Black lives matter. White lives matter. Asian lives matter. Hispanic lives matter. That’s   and it’s racist. DICKERSON: Well  —   GIULIANI: Of course black lives matter, and they matter greatly, but when you focus in on one percent of less than 1 percent of the murder that’s going on in America, and you make it a national thing, and all of you in the media make it much bigger than the black kid who’s getting killed in Chicago every 14 hours, you create a disproportion. DICKERSON: All right. GIULIANI: The police understand it, and it puts a target on their back. Every cop in America will tell you that if you ask him. DICKERSON: All right, Mayor Giuliani, thanks so much for being with us. GIULIANI: Thank you. Follow Pam Key On Twitter @pamkeyNEN