Fashion icon Karl Lagerfeld says Kim Kardashian has only herself to blame after becoming the victim of an armed robbery in Paris this week  —   because, he says, the reality TV star spends so much time flaunting her wealth on social media that someone was bound to want to steal from her. [The    Chanel chief accused the Keeping up with the Kardashians star of being “too public” with her wealth before she was robbed at gunpoint inside her Paris hotel room this week, with the thieves reportedly making off with more than $10 million in jewelry.  “You cannot display your wealth then be surprised that some people want to share it,” Lagerfeld told reporters after the Chanel show at Paris Fashion Week on Tuesday, according to the Associated Press. “I don’t understand why (Kardashian) was in a hotel with no security and things like this,” he added. “If you are that famous and you put all your jewelry on the net you go to hotels where nobody can come near to the room. ” Lagerfeld’s comments come as Kardashian has faced similar criticism from her former bodyguard Steve Stanulis, who told the New York Post‘s Page Six on Monday that he believes the Paris robbery was an inside job. “Kim’s social media and her Snapchat is her undoing,” Stanulis told the paper. “When she is posting, ‘Here I am, and this is the $5 million ring I am wearing, here’s where I am going,’ you are basically inviting someone to rob you. ” “Sadly, the only person to blame for this incident is Kim Kardashian,” Stanulis charged. “She has tens of millions of dollars of jewelry, but she can’t pay for an armed guard to protect her? The fact that five days ago that someone broke through her security chain and tried to grab her, then this happened, shows her security is not strong enough, and this should be a   call. ” Kardashian reportedly left Paris in a private jet immediately after the robbery, and her husband Kanye West cut short a New York City concert in order to be at her side. West has also postponed several upcoming tour dates. Lagerfeld said the Kardashian robbery was “a very bad thing for Paris” in terms of the city’s image. In July, the fashion legend  —   who has lived and worked in Paris since the 1950s  —   said that the city is now an unsafe “nightmare. ” “We make all of these efforts to make Paris appealing and then this happens,” Lagerfeld told reporters, according to the Daily Mail.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum