Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump linked rival Hillary Clinton’s    policies to President Barack Obama’s ongoing release of many federal prison inmates, slamming her as “Heartless Hillary. ”[Clinton wants to strip   Americans of their right to bear arms, while also freeing dangerous felons who will victimize more people, Trump said.  “Hillary wants to disarm vulnerable Americans in   neighborhoods: Whether it’s a young single mom in Florida, or a grandmother in Ohio, Hillary wants them to be defenseless,” Trump said at the National Rifle Association’s   Leadership Forum on Friday, where the gun rights organization endorsed him for president. She wants, he said, Wants them to take away any chance they have of survival. And by the way, you have men and women sitting in an apartment, and there’s tremendous crime, crime of all kinds, and they need to be protected. And you know the only way they’re going to be able to protect themselves  —   and if you take that gun away from them, it’s going to be a very unfair situation. “And that’s why we’re going to call her Heartless Hillary,” he said. “Americans use guns to defend themselves against violent crime more than a million times a year,” Trump continued. “More than a million times a year. And they want to take them away. ” “Heartless hypocrites like the Clintons want to take this and they want to get rid of guns, and yet they have bodyguards that have guns. So I think that in addition to calling for them to name [Supreme Court] judges, we’ll also call them and let their bodyguards immediately disarm,” he said as the audience applauded. They should immediately disarm. And let’s see how good they do. Let’s see how good they feel walking around without their guns on their bodyguards. In the meantime, nobody else can have the guns, right? Trump also criticized the Obama administration’s rush to reduce sentences for criminals: Obama and his appointees are seeking to release as many as 70, 000 federal prisoners without approval from Congress, according to GOP critics, including Sen. Tom Cotton. That number is roughly   of all federal inmates. “President Obama also tried to take the guns from Americans and yet reduced prosecutions of violent criminals who use guns,” he said. “President Obama is even releasing violent criminals from the jails, including drug dealers and those with gun crimes. And they’re being let go by the thousands. By the thousands. ” Many of these are also —  I’m sure you’re not going to be surprised to hear this —  illegal immigrants. President Obama pushed for changes to sentencing laws that released thousands of dangerous,   felons and gang members who prey on civilians. “This is Hillary Clinton’s agenda, too,” he added later in the speech. “To release the violent criminals from jail. She wants them all released. She wants people released that you wouldn’t want to walk on the street with, you wouldn’t want to look at. And whether it’s Kate in San Francisco —  you see what happened there —  and Jamiel. I’ve become great friends with his father. Jamiel was shot in the face three times by somebody that wasn’t supposed to be here. ” “Or, and I always say this, because this was tragic, a    veteran, a woman who was a great woman, raped, sodomized, and killed by an illegal immigrant,” Trump said, referring to the   of Air Force veteran Marilyn Pharis in a California “sanctuary” county last July. “We’re going to straighten it out,” Trump said. Clinton is putting the most vulnerable Americans at risk with her    and open borders policies, Trump said. “This is a risk we can no longer afford. We’ve had enough. I think we’ve had enough. ”