Donald Trump’s responses to questions about the recent public safety measure passed into law in North Carolina have drawn the concern of conservatives who have been fighting against a pattern of political correctness promoted by the militant LGBT agenda in the country. [In an exclusive interview with Breitbart News, Family Research Council president Tony Perkins said Trump’s comments in an interview Thursday on NBC’s Today Show  —   during which he said that transgenders should be allowed to “use the bathroom that they feel is appropriate”  —   were “ambiguous” at best.  “It’s problematic because this is one of those issues of political correctness that has run amuck  —   and he is trying to be the champion of fighting back political correctness,” Perkins said. Perkins continued: In this case, his response is very confusing, and this is, as the legislators in North Carolina have pointed out, this is a public safety issue. This bill is beyond the “sexual confusion” the left is pushing for 0. 5 percent of the population, to a public safety issue, and I think he needs to speak out with clarity. Look, the legislators responded to their constituents and, if anything, he should be speaking to his friends in big business to quit being literally on the strings as puppets for radical sexual anarchists. Asked by Breitbart News if the experience with Trump  —   in being either ambiguous or completely unaware of the details involved in these bills pushed by the left  —   is similar to that of the establishment GOP who often dismiss such cultural issues, Perkins said, “The short answer is ‘yes,’ but if you actually read Donald Trump’s quotes, you read the transcripts of his speeches on many issues that touch in this area, there is great ambiguity. ” Perkins read a portion of Trump’s quote from the transcript: “Oh, I had a feeling that question was going to come up. I will tell you North Carolina did something that was very strong, and they’re paying a big price. There’s a lot of problems. “ “What does that mean?” asked Perkins. “It doesn’t have clarity and  —   this is just symbolic  —   but if you’re afraid to protect women and children in restaurants, how are you going to protect the nation against ISIS?” “You’ve got to speak with clarity,” he added. “And I think that is what in some areas attracted people to Donald Trump, but he does lack that clarity when it comes to these cultural issues that are very significant in the country today. ” Asked for his view on the North Carolina bathroom controversy, Trump said the state has “paid a big price” for requiring transgenders to use the restroom that corresponds with their biological sex, reports CNSNews. com. “Leave it the way it is,” he said. “One of the best answers I heard was from a commentator yesterday, saying ‘Leave it the way it is right now,’” Trump continued. “There have been very few problems. Leave it the way it is. North Carolina, what they’re going through with all of the business that’s leaving and all of the strife, and that’s on both sides  —   you leave it the way it is. ” “There have been very few complaints the way it is,” Trump added. “People go, they use the bathroom that they feel is appropriate. There has been so little trouble. And the problem with what happened in North Carolina is the strife, and the  —   the economic punishment that they’re taking. ” Trump also said there’s a “big move to create new bathrooms” for transgenders. “First of all, I think that would be discriminatory in a certain way,” he explained. “It would be unbelievably expensive for businesses and for the country. Leave it the way it is. ” Conservative Penny Nance of Concerned Women for America said, “Bathroom privacy bills are not meant to discriminate against those who identify as transgender. ” “Privacy bills are common sense regulations that protect women and children,” she explained in a statement. “Conservatives are not saying those who identify as transgender are committing sexual assault, but instead that these laws would allow sexual offenders to pose as transgender individuals to obtain entry into the bathroom of the opposite sex. ” “This issue is not about bathrooms if that were the case, the Left would settle for transgender use of    ‘family’ restrooms,” Nance asserted. “This is about a small number of Americans who want special rights at the expense of public safety. ” Nance said the larger problem is Trump’s judgment. “This is why conservatives are right to question Donald Trump’s judgment,” she said. “His instincts are wrong on our core values. He has spent his life surrounded by Manhattan elites who have never shopped in a Target. Of course he doesn’t understand the outrage. I don’t know if this will ultimately hurt him politically, but it should. ” Similarly, Peter Wolfgang, president of Family Institute of Connecticut Action, said, “Donald Trump has refused to defend the rights of ordinary citizens against LGBT bullying throughout his presidential campaign. ” “No one should be surprised that Trump now supports allowing men in women’s bathrooms,” he continued. “The only surprise is that anyone who is socially conservative would still support him for President. Trump’s nomination could well mean the end of the social conservative cause within the Republican Party. ”