Former presidential candidate Carly Fiorina is on a short list of candidates being vetted as potential running mates for Sen. Ted Cruz, should he win the Republican nomination. [Sarah Isgur Flores, former deputy campaign manager for Carly Fiorina’s presidential campaign, confirms to Breitbart News that Fiorina is being vetted by the Cruz campaign as a potential Vice President running mate to the Texas senator.  The Cruz campaign has not made public the list of potential Cruz vice presidential running mates aside from Fiorina. Chad Sweet, Cruz campaign National Chairman, confirmed to Jake Tapper on CNN that Fiorina is one of a number of candidates being vetted as potential VP candidates: Cruz team is vetting potential VP candidates, @CarlyFiorina is ‘absolutely’ one of them, Cruz campaign chair says  https:  .   —   The Lead CNN (@TheLeadCNN) April 25, 2016,  Cruz campaign manager Jeff Roe tweeted: We have narrowed our VP candidates to a short list and are going thru the normal processes associated with picking a running mate. #CruzCrew,  —   Jeff Roe (@jeffroe) April 25, 2016,  Fiorina left the race for President earlier this year. The lone female face in the GOP field, Fiorina made a reputation of going on the attack against Democratic Party frontrunner Hillary Clinton. In the former   CEO’s statement on leaving the race she advised young girls and women, “Do not listen to anyone who says you have to vote a certain way or for a certain candidate because you’re a woman. ” Following Fiorina’s exit from the presidential race she created the political action committee Carly for America. At the time the Sunlight Foundation reported Fiorina Super PAC money totaled over $1. 4 million according to the report. The Carly for President campaign committee reported over $1. 3 million cash on hand at the end of March according to a FEC filing. A March 31, 2016 quarterly FEC filing showed Carly for America with cash on hand of $51, 000. $50, 000 of that total was listed as a transfer from the Carly for President campaign committee. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 