Following yesterday’s row on CNN  —   in which   surrogates promoted Muslim migration and scoffed at suggestions that Islam practiced violence against women  —   former RNC operative Doug Heye attempted to make light of the barbaric disfiguring practice of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). [According to the Centers for Disease Control, more than half a million girls in the U. S. are at risk of FGM due to migration from Muslim nations into the United States. When Trump aide Stephen Miller raised the issue of Islamic mistreatment of women on CNN, progressive panelists attempted to laugh off the claim and even denied the veracity of the   statistics.  On CNN today, Heye  —   who previously worked for failed House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, one of the top cheerleaders for mass migration  —   attempted to trivialize the violent oppression of women by Islamic migrants  —   dismissing the rise of the barbaric practice as a nonissue. Donald Trump is the only candidate who supports a pause on Islamic migration into the United States. Heye told CNN viewers on Monday morning: If you look forward to the New York primary, Donald Trump is poised to do well, but polling shows that suburban women, women throughout the state say that they support Donald Trump if he’s the nominee. Only Donald Trump could hurt us further with Republican women and women throughout the country, whether they’re Independent or Democrats. Women throughout America don’t want to vote for Donald Trump because he doesn’t have their issues at heart, because he doesn’t know how to how to talk to them, and because —  whether it’s Heidi Cruz, or whether it’s Megyn Kelly, whether it’s Carly Fiorina —  all Donald Trump has had is misogynistic views. And I’ll tell you I experienced it yesterday. I was on State of The Union with Jake Tapper when a senior Trump advisor said we’re going to get women by talking about domestic female mutilation. That’s not an issue that Republican women, Democratic women, women throughout the country have been talking about.  It came out of nowhere and suggests a campaign that’s really disconnected. If that’s what you’re going to campaign on, it shows you’ve got a real problem when you communicate with women. Heye, as he had previously on the CNN panel, directly misquoted Miller, who had argued that while the political class in Washington D. C. “feigned indignation” over Trump retweets, they ignored the effects of open borders on U. S. women. Miller cited several examples, including illegal immigration violence, diminished economic prospects, as well as the violent oppression of women by   migrants. It is unclear why Heye thinks Trump’s retweet is a more important issue for the quality of life of women in the United States than whether or not we have an open border, or whether or not we import migrants from countries that violently oppress and subjugate women. Polling shows Republican voters overwhelmingly want to pause Muslim migration. For instance, exit polling from the five primary states that voted on March 15th showed that two thirds of those states’ Republican voters support Trump’s call for a temporary pause on Muslim migration. Unless Muslim migration is paused or curbed, in the next five years the U. S. will permanently resettle a population of Muslim migrants that is larger than the entire population of Washington D. C. Only about one in 10 Muslims in America lean toward the Republican Party, according to Pew, meaning that the unchecked Muslim migration supported by donor class politicians and operatives also puts limited government policies further out of reach.