“Get ready for war with Russia” if Hillary Clinton is elected president, said progressive Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein. [“This election, we are not only deciding what kind of world we will have, but whether we will have a world or not going forward,” Stein warned, explaining that Clinton’s   militarism “is a mushroom cloud waiting to happen. ”  While Stein adamantly opposes a Trump presidency, she explained that the dangers posed by a Clinton presidency are “arguably even more immediate and intense. ” Stein blasted Clinton’s “warmongering” that “almost singlehandedly” brought us the turmoil in Libya and could lead us into a nuclear war if Clinton were elected president. “Hillary brought us Libya almost singlehandedly,” Stein explained in a Thursday Fox Business interview. She continued: And she has said that she will lead the charge with a   zone in Syria, and that basically amounts to a declaration of war against Russia, who is there under international law, having been invited by the sitting government. Like it or not, Russia has the sanction of international law to be there. For us to go in and declare a   zone means get ready for war with Russia. Both of us have 2, 000 nuclear weapons on hair trigger alert. This is the most dangerous moment —   according to the former president of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, who, two weeks ago, said this is the most dangerous nuclear moment ever. Stein elaborated on this view during a Facebook Live interview with progressive Marc Lamont Hill, who has endorsed Stein over Clinton: “In this election, we are not only deciding what kind of world we will have, but whether we will have a world or not going forward,” Stein said, adding: Not only in regards to climate, not only in regards to these expanding wars where Hillary has this proven track record   …     of the most   military policy as possible, and she’s calling for a   zone in Syria, which means we’re essentially declaring war on Russia if Hillary gets elected —  declaring war on Russia at a time when we have 2, 000 nuclear weapons between us and the Russians on hair trigger alert. This is a mushroom cloud waiting to happen. So it’s really important right now for us to stand up and start building a force to do the right thing. “No one should fool themselves into thinking that the dangers will be smaller, that they will be mitigated in any way for having Hillary in White House. In some ways, they’re arguably even more immediate and intense,” Stein said. “But the dangers will be mitigated if we have created a strong force and we stand up loud and clear and we have a political base for this social movement that is coming together across this country and, really, across the world —  this movement that puts people, planet, and peace over profit. ” “It’s very clear what kind of a trend we’re on,” Stein explained: This is a race to the bottom between the greater and lesser evil. Where is the exit strategy if you buy into this [idea that one must vote for one of the major parties]? It means that in every election, we have two candidates that are more corporatist, more militarist, more imperialist, more economic elites, more serving Wall Street, offshoring our jobs, more of these rigged corporate trade agreements, more of this climate policy.   …     There is no exit strategy if you buy into the lesser evil. It means with each race, we come closer and closer to the cliff. “We must find and elect alternatives to the Wall   oligarchy, the warmongers, and the ” Stein wrote on Twitter. Stein, who has previously described Clinton as “Queen of corruption,” attacked Clinton for her questionable ties to Qatar and Saudi Arabia: #RememberWhenClinton took $1M from Qatar and didn’t tell the state department? https:  .   —   Dr. Jill Stein (@DrJillStein) November 5, 2016,  If Saudi Arabia funded   and ISIS too, why does Obama protect them, Clinton arm them,  Podesta lobby for them? https:  .   —   Dr. Jill Stein (@DrJillStein) November 6, 2016,  Saudi Arabia:  Clinton Foundation   US via Podesta   record arms deals from     terrorism sponsor,  —   Dr. Jill Stein (@DrJillStein) November 4, 2016,  During her interview with Stein, Fox Business host Kennedy blasted other members of the mainstream media for ignoring and trying to “smother” Stein’s “authentic” and “interesting” candidacy. “I’m surprised that the mainstream media has taken an interesting, authentic candidate like yourself —   they were so obsessed with Bernie Sanders —   and you’ve got someone, the embodiment of this new and interesting political tapestry, and they’ve essentially ignored you and smothered your candidacy,” Kennedy said. Stein agreed and said that the corporate media’s blackout of her campaign and their perpetuation “speaks volumes. ” She said, “My campaign is a very inconvenient truth that there is a politics of integrity out there.   …     Every day, there are more revelations how both   …     [Trump and Clinton] are walking, talking scandal machines, and people are clamoring for something else. ” She added, “The corporate media, the apologists for the Democrats and Republicans, and the political pundits are doing everything they can to intimidate people into voting for the system that’s throwing them under the bus. ”