When it comes to tackling the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement targeting the Jewish state, Israel and its champions should start fighting fire with fire, comic legend Jackie Mason proposed during a radio interview Sunday. [Hollywood stars who boycott Israel should be blacklisted by the Jewish state’s supporters in the entertainment industry, Mason contended.  The comedian argued: “If they are determined to persecute Israel, why can’t we persecute them? Why can’t we put them out of business? Why should we let them get away with it?” Mason was speaking on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” the popular weekend talk radio show broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM in Philadelphia.  Klein doubles as Breitbart Jerusalem’s bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. Mason found it “disgusting” that celebrities would boycott Israel while many of their own careers, he said, were advanced by Jewish executives in Hollywood, as well as “Jews who created the industry. ” Regarding   celebrities, Mason stated: “These people who profited all their lives from Jewish people, Jewish directors, Jewish producers. Jews created the industry. If not for the Jews who created the industry in Hollywood, all these people would never have a job and would never be working. So the Jews supported them all their lives. And the Jews made it possible for them to make a living. ” Mason continued: “All these actors and singers and dancers who mostly basically are people whose minds have never been working. If they had to get a regular job they would be making forty dollars a week for the rest of their lives. So because of the Jewish people they became successful because there’s nothing else they could do for a living. So they made them into celebrities and they make them billions of dollars. “And if they had any decency they would want to go out of their way to help Jewish people and to save Jewish people because the State of Israel represents the people who made it possible for them to ever become a celebrity in the first place.   …     If not for them you would be starving to death today. ” Mason believes that if celebrities who boycott Israel “knew they would have to pay a price for this, they wouldn’t be so free to attack and attempt to destroy Israel every chance they get. ” “Once they know that this is a price they will have to pay for it, I guarantee you won’t hear any more about boycotting Israel,” he stated. “Once and for all, we who are supporting them, and we who are making it possible for them to make such a fortune and have such a comfortable life and feel free to persecute the people who are doing everything to help them. We should immediately do everything possible to put a stop to it. ” Mason posited, “The best way to put a stop to it is to boycott them and put them out of work. If they want to put us out of existence, we should put them out of work. And we should do it immediately. ” Mason said he was particularly incensed by the backwards logic of the BDS movement. These people want to boycott a beleaguered country that is being persecuted every day by Palestinians. And they convinced themselves that the Palestinians are the victims when the Jews are helping the Palestinians every day. A Palestinian in Israel can make a comfortable living, can be a citizen, can even be in the government, and we treat them like kings. While at the same time Palestinians are looking for excuses to walk around stabbing Jews in the streets every day. And how they can sympathize with murderers instead of people trying to bring peace on earth, to bring peace even to their own enemies, and even help them make a living. This is the most disgusting thing I ever heard of in my life. Hollywood has been one of the central battlefields for the BDS campaign. Pink Floyd front man Roger Waters has routinely helped the boycott movement to pressure celebrities against performing in Israel. Lauryn Hill, Santana, and Elvis Costello all recently caved in to the pressure, cancelling their gigs in Israel. Last month, British folk singer Donovan canceled a scheduled concert in Jaffa amid rumors of a boycott. As Breitbart Jerusalem reported, Jennifer Lopez is now facing pressure from   activists over her plan to perform in Israel this summer, with   partisans demanding she cancel her concert. Beyonce has also been up against   protestation amid reports she may perform in Israel in the summer. Last week, Jason Derulo announced his debut performance in Israel this April. Other celebrities slated to perform in the Jewish state in the next few months include Elton John, SIA, Deep Purple, and Julio Iglesias. In recent days, the BDS movement turned on the Academy Awards, demanding the removal of a     trip to Israel worth $55, 000 provided in a swag bag for  . Last week, soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo was targeted by   activists on social media in response to his appearance in an Israeli cable TV commercial.