It has been a year dominated by populist rage, embodied in Bernie Sanders’s calls for a political revolution and Donald J. Trump’s angry assertions that the United States, and its workers, are losing badly in the global economy. In an economic policy speech on Wednesday, Hillary Clinton gave this message: I alone am the candidate who knows how to turn those underlying frustrations into actual policies that might make things better. She offered herself as someone who would not merely vent voters’ anger, but respond to that anger by pulling the levers of the federal bureaucracy and creating legislation that can be scored by the Congressional Budget Office and just maybe pass a Senate committee. “It’s not easy to change Washington, or how corporations behave,” Mrs. Clinton, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, said before exuberant supporters in Raleigh, N. C. a day after a speech blasting Mr. Trump’s business record, ethics and   policy positions. “It takes more than stern words or a flashy slogan. It takes a plan, and it takes experience and the ability to work with both parties to get results. ” Unlike her primary opponent, Mr. Sanders, she did not promise to provide free college tuition or to break up major banks she instead said she would make sure students could graduate without a debt hangover, and clamp down on banks in ways that would probably lead them to shrink. Unlike her Republican opponent, Mr. Trump, she did not propose ripping up trade deals and risking trade wars with the likes of China and Mexico. But she did say her administration would use the tax code to punish companies that outsource jobs. Notably, she also did not proclaim the greatness of the   economy and pledge continuity. That was a contrast with two other   candidates who ran to succeed a   president from their party amid a strong economy, Al Gore in 2000 and George H. W. Bush in 1988. This carefully   speech suggests she seeks to run not by boasting of what has gone right in the economy under President Obama, but as a fixer who can more successfully deal with the things that are still broken. The Obama administration has stressed that   job growth has been strong for the last several years and that the unemployment rate is now down to 4. 7 percent. But in her speech, Mrs. Clinton emphasized the   divergence between worker productivity and wages, the tendency of companies to view employee compensation as a cost to be minimized. And she spoke of the struggles of the   unemployed, people who can find only   work, and those who are out of the labor force entirely. In effect, Mrs. Clinton acknowledged the underlying economic discontent that has fueled the rise of Mr. Sanders and Mr. Trump, while presenting herself as the person best qualified to address it. “The bottom line is that too many leaders in business and government have lost sight of our shared responsibility to each other and to our nation,” she said. “They let Wall Street take big risks with unregulated financial activities, they skew our tax code toward the wealthy, they failed to enforce our trade rules, they undermined workers’ rights. ” Mrs. Clinton thus emphasized policies that have potential for deal making even in a polarized Congress, or that could be executed through administrative action. In the first category, she mentioned   investment in public infrastructure, funding   investments in the nation’s future with a mix of public and private resources. Business interests and many elected Republicans support ideas in this vein, at least in theory. She also mentioned immigration reform as a tool for economic improvement, another idea that businesspeople and many Republicans support. (Recall that an immigration bill created in part by Marco Rubio, who in a slightly different universe might be Mrs. Clinton’s   opponent, was one vote in the House of Representatives away from becoming law not long ago.) In the category of administrative action, Mrs. Clinton was vague but clear about her intention to use the machinery of government to nudge things in workers’ favor. She said she would “continue to crack down on wage theft” and abuse of overtime rules, suggesting that she would, if anything, seek to expand Obama administration rules to make more workers eligible for     pay and use government authority to fight employers that try to shortchange employees. The policy steps she described had mostly been put forward by her campaign already, so it is hard to describe the speech as a step toward the left, in hopes of corralling Sanders voters, or to the center, in hopes of broadening her appeal to the general electorate. Rather, the speech framed her place in the race as being the candidate who understands the populist discontent but will react to it with practicality. That carries risks, too. After all, President Obama has spent his entire second term following the same basic strategy of looking for lanes for bipartisan cooperation on things like infrastructure spending and immigration overhaul, while using the federal bureaucracy to try to tilt the playing field toward workers within the confines of current law. As the election advances, Mrs. Clinton will be vulnerable to the charge that she is promising to do the same things as Mr. Obama has, but with the hope of getting better results for American workers. Politicians campaign in poetry and govern in prose. Mrs. Clinton’s message on Wednesday was that she will campaign and govern with a   plan, drawn up by   experts, incorporating the full range of potential legislative and administrative tools available to the next president.