Republican frontrunner Donald Trump made an appearance on Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host and Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon, on the morning after a sweep of the Northeastern Republican primaries. [Bannon invited Trump to pivot to the general election, and elaborate on his prediction that Democrat Hillary Clinton will be “easy” to beat.  “I would say that I’ve gone against a lot of very talented people in the Republicans, and one by one  —   you’ve watched it, Steve  —    they drop off,” said Trump. “I just feel that she’s so flawed.  I don’t know that she’ll be even able to run because of the email scandal.  I assume that they’re going to let her run, which is, by itself, a problem for her. ” “But I believe that she’ll be easy,” Trump continued.  “She’ll be horrible on jobs, she is horrible on the military and on the border.  She wants to have open borders with people flying through, and we can’t have that, with crime, with economic development, et cetera, et cetera.  Just on those two issues alone, if you talk about jobs, if you talk about the economy, if you talk about border, and if you talk about military  —   because people want strength today, and she doesn’t have strength, she doesn’t have stamina.  And she will never have it.  And I think she’ll be easy to beat. ” Trump also criticized Clinton for her history of influence peddling after Bannon noted that Clinton claimed she and her husband “left the White House dead broke,” but their net worth is now estimated to be over $100 million. “If you think about it, to get to those numbers, they made speeches, they got paid a fortune for the speeches,” he said, referring to the Clinton’s   net worth.  “And then you look at the countries  —   many countries and companies she made the speeches for  —   and you get to see the way they got treated in government. ”   “A book was written two years ago about this, I mean it was really an amazing book, where it just traced the money  —   money was paid, and someone got a favor.  And I think we’ll whip out that book, because that book will become very pertinent.  I’m surprised it hasn’t been used by Sanders, actually,” Trump added, referring to the bestselling book Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich by Peter Schweizer. “That book was unbelievably   and unbelievably factual,” said Trump.  “Yeah, she took money, and she did favors for it.  There’s no question about it. ” Turning to the migrant crisis in Europe, Trump pronounced the situation “horrible” and said “they should have built a safe zone. ” “I think for Merkel to have allowed millions of people into Germany, and Germany is totally destabilized now  —   I don’t believe it’ll ever be the same.  Maybe in two hundred years,” he lamented.  “Germany, of all countries, I cannot believe they allowed this to happen. ” “You look at what’s going on with migration  —   and we have a lot of the migrants.  I mean, we have migrants coming over here by the thousands, by the tens of thousands, and they’re putting them in different parts of the country.  We know nothing about the people, where they come from, who they are, and it’s a terrible situation. ” “People are coming into this country, and we have no documentation, we have no idea who they are.  They could very well be ISIS,” Trump warned.  “I mean, you look at those lines of migration, there’s so many young, strong men on those lines, could be ISIS. ” Bannon asked what Trump would say to the criticism from Charles Koch that the rhetoric on limiting Muslim immigration from Trump, and from Ted Cruz, “reflects back to Nazi Germany. ” “I don’t say anything to him,” Trump replied.  “I’ve always like the Kochs.  They’re members of my clubs in Palm Beach.  They’re nice people, and I’ve always like them.  But what he says bears no relationship to what I do or say. ” “I don’t need his money.  I’ve got my own money, and I’m one of the few that can say that,” he continued.  “I guess these other guys, they’re puppets, so if he says something bad about some politician, that’s not good.  But I don’t need their money.  I like them as people, but I disagree with him a hundred percent on some of the things he said. ” Trump noted that Charles Koch “actually went so far as to say that he might back Hillary Clinton. ” “I watched it, and he was a little shy of that, and the papers built it up a little bit more than the should have,” he added.  “He made some statements that were not very good for the Republican Party, and that’s too bad.  But, again, you have a lot of people that need him, and I don’t need him at all.  One of the reasons he wouldn’t like me is because I don’t need him, and I won’t do what he tells me to do, because I couldn’t care less. ” “I’m going to do what’s right for the American people,” Trump declared.  “And he can have his puppets.  They’re all over the place. ” “Who knows how well he’s doing?” he mused of Charles Koch’s fortunes.  “He’s in the oil business.  People in the oil business right now are getting hurt.  Maybe he won’t even enter the fray.  But as people, I like him, but I disagree with what he says. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00AM to 9:00AM EST. LISTEN: 