BALTIMORE  —   The acquittal on Thursday of a Baltimore police officer charged with murder and six other crimes in the death of Freddie Gray has dealt a devastating blow to the prosecution, legal experts say, and raises questions about whether the state should press ahead with the trials of four other officers. Officer Caesar R. Goodson Jr. who drove the police transport van in which Mr. Gray suffered the spinal cord injury that killed him, faced the most serious charges of any of the six officers indicted in the fatal arrest. His acquittal on seven counts leaves the state without any convictions after three trials, in one of the nation’s most closely watched police misconduct cases  —   and continues to leave open the question of what, exactly, happened to Mr. Gray inside the van. Judge Barry G. Williams, who presided over the Goodson trial, issued the verdicts to a hushed, packed courtroom. He drew no conclusions about exactly when during the van ride Mr. Gray got hurt, saying there were several “equally plausible scenarios. ” And he rejected the state’s contention that the officer had given Mr. Gray an intentional “rough ride” and knowingly endangered him by failing to buckle him into the van or provide medical help. Mr. Gray was detained after fleeing, apparently unprompted, from officers in the downtrodden Sandtown neighborhood of West Baltimore, and loaded into a police wagon that made six stops in West Baltimore before it arrived at the Western District police station, where Mr. Gray was found unresponsive and not breathing, with a devastating spinal cord injury. The death of Mr. Gray, a    black man, set off a wave of violent unrest here last year and thrust this majority black city into the center of a wrenching national debate over race and policing. The state’s attorney, Marilyn Mosby, sought to quell the violence by telling protesters she heard their “call for ‘no justice, no peace,’” promising to deliver “justice on behalf of this young man. ” But the first trial, of Officer William Porter, ended with a hung jury in December he is scheduled to be retried. A second officer, Edward M. Nero, was acquitted last month of four charges. Thursday’s verdicts instantly reignited debate here over whether Ms. Mosby had overcharged the officers and prompted speculation about what she will do next. “This was the state’s Waterloo,” declared Warren Brown, a defense lawyer who has been watching the trials, and has been sharply critical of the prosecution. Mayor Stephanie   issued a bland statement after the verdict that said, in part, “I know the citizens of Baltimore will continue to respect the judicial process and the ruling of the court. ” The Baltimore police union called immediately for all remaining charges to be dropped and accused Ms. Mosby of “playing politics with our agency. ” Ms. Mosby had no comment like all parties in the case, she is bound by a judge’s order barring her from talking about it. But most legal experts agreed that Ms. Mosby must now rethink her strategy. Still, the road ahead is a complicated one for her. Several officers charged in the cases have filed defamation suits against her a decision to drop criminal charges against them could become fodder for their lawsuits  —   and hurt her if she seeks  . “If she abandons the prosecution of the four remaining trials, the only interpretation of that is that she has been defeated  —   certainly that does not bode well politically for her,” said Warren Alperstein, a lawyer who represents police officers, though not those charged in the Gray cases. “On the other hand, how far do you take this when you are oh for three?” One calculation, if she does go forward, is whether to seek the removal of Judge Williams from future trials. The judge, a former federal prosecutor who tried police misconduct cases for the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, has presided over all three trials so far. The first trial was a jury trial the other two were tried by the judge, at the request of the officers. In the process, though, he has tipped his hand as to his thinking about some of the other defendants. For instance, he said on Thursday that it “strains credibility” to think that Officer Porter, who testified that he did not believe that Mr. Gray was in medical distress, had told Officer Goodson that Mr. Gray was in danger. And during the trial of Officer Nero, one of the two arresting officers, the judge raised the idea that the other officer  —   Garrett E. Miller  —   had been more deeply involved in the arrest. Officer Miller faces trial starting on July 27. The courtroom was tense and quiet as the judge read the verdicts on Thursday sheriff’s deputies had issued a warning: “no moans, no groans. ” Afterward, Officer Goodson hugged members of his family and Officers Nero and Miller, both of whom were seated in the front row. Ms. Mosby heaved a sigh and walked out, her head down, escorted by her security guard. Jan Bledsoe and Michael Schatzow, who prosecuted the case, followed,   and looking glum. Outside the courthouse, a small band of protesters gathered, maybe a few dozen in all. Many had expected the verdict some sounded more resigned, others angry. “It’s business as usual  —   you’re not going to convict nobody for killing a black man in America, whether it be New York or Chicago, Philadelphia or Baltimore,” said Duane “Shorty” Davis, a chef and activist here. “Black lives don’t matter to white America. ” Mr. Davis said he believed Ms. Mosby never had any “intention of winning this case,” and that the only reason she brought charges “is because they had an uprising. ” Others said they saw the $6. 4 million settlement that Baltimore paid to Mr. Gray’s family, including his mother, to settle an expected civil suit last year as a kind of payback, or trade, for the acquittals. Among them were George Grady and his girlfriend, Carleen White, near Pennsylvania and North Avenues, not far from the site of last year’s unrest. “When she took the money, why would you find the police guilty now?” Mr. Grady said. As to whether Ms. Mosby should drop the remaining cases, he said was of two minds. At first, he said she should not. But then, he switched gears: “The family got paid. Let it go, let this rest. ” Despite the sense here that little has changed since then, some civil rights leaders, like Tessa   the president of Baltimore’s branch of the N. A. A. C. P. said the very act of trying the officers has brought scrutiny to police practices that had long endured in the shadows. And some police practices appear to be changing. “We’re here, and the police are being looked at, and they have to change their behavior,” Ms.   said, adding that she hoped the prosecutions would continue for that reason. “As a person out in the street, I think we should keep them coming. ” Late last month, the Baltimore police announced they were putting new cameras in transport vans. Ms.   as well as a lawyer, A. Dwight Petit, who represents police brutality plaintiffs in Baltimore, say anecdotal complaints of rough rides have dropped since Mr. Gray’s case took over the headlines. That has trickled down to anecdotes on the street. Standing at the intersection of Pennsylvania and North Avenues, Darrius Colbert, 26, who said that he had served about seven years in prison, said he had been arrested and loaded into a police wagon on three occasions  —   twice before Mr. Gray’s death, and once after. On the former occasions, Mr. Colbert said, he was not secured with a seatbelt, and felt “weak and powerless,” though he was not hurt. “The van takes off,” he said, “you just slide around, thinking, ‘I have no control over my life whatsoever. ’” But during his most recent arrest, he said that he was buckled in.