ST. LOUIS, Missouri  —   Donald Trump, the Republican nominee for president, appeared with three alleged sexual assault victims of former President Bill Clinton in the hours before he debates Clinton’s wife, Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Rodham Clinton, here at Washington University.   The women —  Paula Jones, Kathleen Willey and Juanita Broaddrick —  have each leveled various charges against Bill Clinton. They also each have charged that Hillary Clinton was an “enabler” of Bill Clinton’s behavior in exclusive interviews with Breitbart News’ Aaron Klein published on Sunday. In addition, Kathy Shelton —  who was allegedly raped when she was 12 years old, while Hillary Clinton defended her accused rapist —  spoke as well. Before the event started, a leftist reporter yelled at Trump: “Mr. Trump, does your star power allow you to touch women without their consent?” Then Trump, ignoring the reporter, opened the panel event and said: “Thank you very much for coming, and these four very courageous women have asked to be here and it was our honor to help them. I think we’re each going to make just an individual short statement, and then we will have a little meeting and we will see you at the debate. ” WATCH THE VIDEO: Jones, who kicked it off, said, “I’m here to support Mr. Trump because he’s going to make America great again, and I think everybody else should vote for him. “I think they should all look at the fact that he is a good person, he’s not what other people have been saying he’s been, not Hillary —  so think about that,” Jones said. Shelton then said, “I’m also here to support Trump. ” She stated that “at 12 years old, Hillary put me through something that you would never put a    through. ” “She says she’s for women and children,” Shelton added, noting that Hillary Clinton stands against women and children because she was caught “laughing on tape” last year when asked about her case. Broaddrick went next. “I’m here to support Donald Trump,” she said. “I tweeted recently, and Mr. Trump retweeted it, that actions speak louder than words. Mr. Trump may have said some bad words but Bill Clinton raped me and Hillary Clinton threatened me. I don’t think there’s any comparison. ” Willey, who was the last to speak on the short panel, noted as well that “I am here to support Donald Trump. ” “The reason for that is the first day that he announced for president he said, ‘I love this country and I want America to be great again.’ And I cried when he said that because I think this is the greatest country in the world,” Willey said. “I think that we can do anything. I think we can accomplish anything. I think that he can bring peace to this world. And I think Donald Trump can lead us to that point. ” When Trump wrapped the event, which was broadcast live on his Facebook page, the same reporter shouted more questions. “Mr. Trump, have you touched women without their consent?” the reporter shouted multiple times. Jones, after the reporter wouldn’t stop harassing Trump and the panel, fired back: “Why don’t you go ask Bill Clinton that? Why don’t y’all go ask Bill Clinton that? Go ahead —  ask Hillary as well. ” The room erupted in applause for Jones.