U. S. Border Patrol agents working in south Texas found two more bodies of illegal immigrants who had been abandoned by their human smugglers. These human smugglers will regularly abandon people who cannot keep up because of exhaustion, dehydration, or injury. [Border Patrol agents in Kenedy County, about 60 miles north of the   border, were notified by the Kenedy County Sheriff’s Office on Friday about an anonymous caller referencing a deceased person on a ranch. The caller gave the sheriff’s office a description of where to find the body.  Border Patrol agents were dispatched to the area and they discovered the remains of the person who had been left to die, information provided to Breitbart Texas by the U. S. Border Patrol revealed. No information was released about the person’s identity, nationality, cause of death or timing of the death. Later that same day, Border Patrol agents working near the town of Havana, Texas, in Hidalgo County came across another deceased person in one of the brush area. Agents notified the Hidalgo County Sheriff’s Office, who dispatched deputies to recover the human remains. These deaths occur regularly in south Texas because the human smugglers, working for drug cartels from Mexico, do not care about their human cargo. Breitbart Texas has regularly reported on these deaths and the impact on these Texas counties. Many of these counties are among the poorest in the state and the cost of burying the dead rests on the taxpayers. “Human smugglers will not think twice about leaving you alone to die, they have done it to women and children and they just don’t care,” Border Patrol Chief Patrol Agent Manuel Padillo, Jr. said in the written statement. Currently, temperatures in the region are well above 100 degrees Fahrenheit. In the next fifteen days, only three days have been forecast for high temperatures below 100. There is little to no forecast of rain, making the necessity of water and the danger of serious injury or death from dehydration or heat exhaustion much higher. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.