WASHINGTON  —   House Democrats on Monday moved to   the findings of a     investigation into the attacks in Benghazi, Libya, in which four Americans were killed, by issuing their own   report that cast the inquiry as a politically motivated crusade that wasted time and money. The release of the Democrats’ report came amid signs that the House Select Committee on Benghazi, led by its chairman, Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, was nearing the release of its official findings. In the face of intense criticism, Mr. Gowdy has repeatedly defended the committee’s work as the most comprehensive examination of the attacks in Benghazi, which occurred on Sept. 11, 2012, and resulted in the deaths of Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens a State Department official, Sean Smith and two Central Intelligence Agency contractors, Tyrone S. Woods and Glen Doherty. In recent days, the committee has reiterated longstanding complaints about lack of cooperation with the investigation by the Obama administration, including a statement by Mr. Gowdy on Monday citing obstruction by the State Department. The committee has also cited the refusal by the White House to have President Obama respond to written questions. “For nearly a year and a half, the State Department has withheld documents and information about Benghazi and Libya from the American people’s elected representatives in Congress,” Mr. Gowdy said in the statement. “Whatever the administration is hiding, its justifications for doing so are imaginary and appear to be invented for the sake of convenience. That’s not how complying with a congressional subpoena works, and it’s well past time the department stops stonewalling. ” In their counternarrative, the Democrats serving on the House Select Committee said they had been virtually shut out of the process of developing the report, and they accused their Republican counterparts of trying to besmirch Hillary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, who was secretary of state during the Benghazi attack. “Section II of our report documents the grave abuses that Select Committee Republicans engaged in during this investigation,” the Democrats wrote. “Republicans excluded Democrats from interviews, concealed exculpatory evidence, withheld interview transcripts, leaked inaccurate information, issued unilateral subpoenas, sent armed marshals to the home of a cooperative witness and even conducted political   by exploiting the deaths of four Americans. ” The Democrats also singled out Mr. Gowdy for criticism. “In our opinion, Chairman Gowdy has been conducting this investigation like an overzealous prosecutor desperately trying to land a   conviction rather than a neutral judge of facts seeking to improve the security of our diplomatic corps,” they wrote. The Democrats’ report included praise for American personnel in Benghazi and Tripoli, the Libyan capital, saying they “conducted themselves with extraordinary courage and heroism,” and determined that the American personnel could not have saved the four who died. The report includes some criticism: “The State Department’s security measures in Benghazi were woefully inadequate as a result of decisions made by officials in the Bureau of Diplomatic Security. ” But it absolves Ms. Clinton of responsibility, adding, “Secretary Clinton never personally denied any requests for additional security in Benghazi. ” The Democrats accused the Republicans of spending more than $7 million on an investigation that they argued would not reveal any substantially new information that would alter the understanding of events as described in multiple previous inquiries. The Republicans sharply dismissed the report, turning the main Democratic criticism around  —   saying that they were overly focused on Mrs. Clinton. “Benghazi Committee Democrats’ obsession with the former secretary of state is on full display,” the committee’s press secretary, Matt Wolking, said in a statement, which also accused the Democrats of issuing “rehashed, partisan talking points defending their endorsed candidate for president. ” Noting that in the Democrats’ report, Mrs. Clinton’s name appeared 339 times compared with 85 mentions of Ambassador Stevens, Mr. Wolking added: “As Chairman Gowdy has said, this is not about one person. This investigation is about the four brave Americans we lost in Libya: Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty. That is how the majority has conducted its thorough investigation, and we look forward to revealing the new information we have uncovered to the families and the American people. ” The work of the Benghazi committee led to the discovery that Mrs. Clinton had used a private email server for many communications connected to her duties as secretary of state, a revelation that has led to separate inquiries into her conduct, including by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. But House Republicans have also contributed to the general sense that the committee overly focused its sights on Mrs. Clinton. The majority leader, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, caused a stir in September when he boasted on Fox television that the committee’s work had put a dent in Mrs. Clinton’s poll numbers. Mr. McCarthy said: “Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right? But we put together a Benghazi special committee, a select committee. What are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping. Why? Because she’s untrustable. But no one would have known any of that had happened, had we not fought. ” Those comments helped derail Mr. McCarthy’s own bid to succeed Speaker John A. Boehner. Mr. Gowdy has long disavowed those remarks, saying the discovery of the private email server was a highly unexpected development in his investigation.