Ariana Rowlands from the UC Irvine College Republicans was adamant on the Milo Yiannopoulos Show that while the society had been reinstated to its previous position, the battle was not yet over. [After Breitbart Tech Editor Milo Yiannopoulos spoke at UC Irvine, the College Republicans were informed in an email from the university that they were suspended for year, citing the group’s alleged failure to provide a certificate of insurance for the private security hired for the event to protect Milo. However, the group previously hosted conservative pundit David Horowitz, who also required private security, but the group were never asked to provide an insurance certificate, and were not penalised for not doing so.  Unfortunately for the UC Irvine administration, they faced a massive backlash, both on and off campus, resulting in the University quickly backtracking and reinstating all of the society’s privileges. In an unprecedented move, the Bernie Sanders supporters at Irvine backed the College Republicans in their struggle against the administration. Rowlands said to Milo that she has a “lot of respect for them because we don’t agree on anything politically,” apart from, it seems, free speech, and revealed that the two groups “would be working together in future. ” Milo suggested that a good move would be for both groups to invite their “most dangerous speaker” and have a proper,   debate, the likes of which have not been seen on US college campuses for a long while. Ariana agreed, claiming that such a debate would give the students “the education that they deserve but that they’re not getting. ” Ariana went on to detail the next move of the CR group, noting that a lot of small   fights are being won across the US, but there is never any progress made as a result, only a return to the status quo with the same threat of censorship being hung over their heads. “We’re not going to let it go,” Ariana proclaimed defiantly to Milo. The CR are demanding that all institutions in the University of California system release a resolution to ensure that there is “no more discrimination based on political philosophy, not just for conservatives, not just for Bernie Sanders [supporters] but for everybody. ” Such a resolution would protect not just organisations, but also for “that student who writes and argues a conservative point in their essay and gets an F on it. ” The full interview with Ariana will be out on Friday. Jack Hadfield is a student at the University of Warwick and a regular contributor to Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter here: @ToryBastard_.