Frank Gaffney, president of the Center for Security Policy talked with Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon Wednesday about Khizr Khan, Seddique Mateen, and Huma Abedin, and how he sees the three coming together in the person of Hillary Clinton. [Gaffney said:  How do any of these folks get selected? Khizr Khan, as we’ve talked about in the past being another example. They’re obviously being recruited by the campaign. Whether they’re coming out of the blue and offering their services, or someone is identifying them saying, “Hey, this is a guy we want to use as a prop for our propaganda against whatever, against those who are critical of Hillary, against those who are running against Hillary, against those who are calling out the Muslim Brotherhood, or other Islamic supremacists. ” He went on to say, “It’s really a matter, I believe, of a concerted political warfare operation against those who are standing up for the Constitution and opposing sharia, which is what these Islamic supremacists believe. It’s God’s will, must be imposed upon Americans and everybody else, Muslim and   alike. ” Seddique Mateen is the father of Orlando terrorist Omar Mateen and was recently pictured behind Hillary Clinton at a political rally. “You don’t get to be a prop for a presidential candidate without somebody having decided this is going to be good for the campaign,” he said. He then stated: Here you have Hillary, I believe, with Huma Abedin’s influence, engaged in a whole host of activities that speak to a kind of sympathy for the Muslim Brotherhood for sure and, frankly, for Islamic supremacism more generally. That ought to be on its face a disqualifier to be the next    of the United States. As for Clinton’s infamous aide, Gaffney said: “Who is Huma Abedin?” is a question I’d like to have addressed. Huma Abedin is a woman whose family business has been, for decades, with funding from Saudi Arabia through the Muslim Brotherhood, promoting so called Muslim minority affairs internationally. And what does that mean, Steve? That means promoting the idea that Muslims should not assimilate in their host country. They should remain segregated. They should be radicalized. They should try to take down the nations in which they find themselves and transform them into Islamic republics. That’s what her dad was pursuing. That’s what her mom has been pursuing. That’s what her brother and sister have been pursuing. And oh, by the way, Huma Abedin has been at the right hand of Hillary Clinton for over sixteen years now, and I’ve got to ask the question: When you look at what Mrs. Clinton has been doing, when you look at the record, the vaunted record, on which she is supposed to be running  —   when you look at the judgment that she is   …     the vaunted judgment that she is supposedly now qualified more than anybody else in American history to be president with, right? You got to ask yourself, that judgment, that record has been, I believe, profoundly influenced in a whole host of ways by Huma Abedin. And when you wonder how does a Taliban supporter get next to Hillary Clinton? How does a guy who’s been promoting, through the   program  —   and by the way, we’ll have a paper on this, I believe, at the Center for Security Policy today, a facility that allows people who have access to money, their own or somebody else, to buy entry into the United States and a   to citizenship? Not just permanent resident status, but citizenship. Do you want a Khizr Khan encouraging that kind of thing? I don’t think so. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. 