SpaceX and Tesla founder Elon Musk slammed Vice’s Motherboard on Tuesday after the news outlet criticized the number of women Musk follows on Twitter. [“Guess how many women Elon Musk follows on Twitter?” tweeted the official Motherboard Twitter account, linking to an article on the subject. “Hint: same number of people currently on Mars”.  Guess how many women Elon Musk follows on Twitter? Hint: same number of people currently on Mars https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Motherboard (@motherboard) October 4, 2016,  “I use twitter for news orgs,” responded Musk shortly after. “My Insta has same women as men. What’s up with the phoney PC police  ?” @motherboard I use twitter for news orgs. My Insta has same women as men. What’s up with the phoney PC police  ?  —   Elon Musk (@elonmusk) October 4, 2016,  “Don’t waste your time with stupid shit lke this, Mr Musk. they are baiting you to a Kobayashi Maru,” commented one verified user, referring to the unwinnable test of Star Trek lore. Musk replied, “True, it is a   situation. ” @elonmusk @motherboard don’t waste your time with stupid shit lke this, Mr Musk. they are baiting you to a Kobayashi Maru.  —   cardoso (@Cardoso) October 4, 2016,  @Cardoso True, it is a   situation,  —   Elon Musk (@elonmusk) October 4, 2016,  Musk, who follows just 55 Twitter accounts, has since added GQ Magazine contributor Caity Weaver to his follows. Last week, Hollywood film director Tim Burton also came under criticism about the “diversity” of characters in his movies. “Things either call for things, or they don’t,” responded Burton after Bustle questioned him about the number of black people in his upcoming film. “I remember back when I was a child watching The Brady Bunch and they started to get all politically correct, like, ‘Okay, let’s have an Asian child and a black’  —   I used to get more offended by that than just  —   I grew up watching blaxploitation movies, right? And I said, that’s great. I didn’t go like, ‘Okay, there should be more white people in these movies. ’” Last month, Nicole Edelmann, the girlfriend of Oculus Rift founder Palmer Luckey, was also harassed off of Twitter after Gawker tech vertical Gizmodo devoted an entire article to her private life, exposing her political views to their large audience and posting personal Instagram pictures, despite her lack of fame. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.