As cities across America suffered disruption, property destruction, and even the shooting and murders of police, a Detroit Police Department detective jumped to Facebook to criticize the Black Lives Matter protesters responsible for the mayhem. Now the detective has been demoted for his post. [On Monday Detroit Police Chief James Craig announced that the DPD has launched an investigation into Detective Nathan Weekley after his social media post went viral drawing over 40, 000 views and a number of complaints.  The officer’s post was highlighted by the   Michigan National Action Network revealing to liberal supporters of Black Lives Matter that the officer called the BLM movement “terrorists” and said that the only way the people would understand how important police are is to stop going to work. “For the first time in my nearly 17 years as a law enforcement officer,” Detective Weekley wrote, “I contemplated calling into work in response to the outrageous act perpetrated against my brothers. It seems like the only response that will demonstrate our importance to society as a whole. The only racists here are the piece of (expletive) Black Lives Matter terrorists and their supporters. ” Chief Craig told the media that he took “very quick action” against Detective Weekely, but insisted that the officer was still entitled to his due process. “We have to let that run,” Chief Craig said. “That’s by contract and certainly out of fairness. We are aware that he posted and he has since removed the post and we recognize that it is still trending. We are concerned as a organization because it does tend to undermine all of the good work that I just described that we’re doing in the community. ” The action against Weekely was only one of two incidents the department was investigating, the chief revealed. Craig also insisted that the DPD “are professionals” and he won’t put up with his officers speaking out against the BLM movement on social media. Detective Weekley is the brother of SWAT officer Joseph Weekley who was taken off the streets after shooting a    in a raid on an eastside home in 2010. After a pair of mistrials, charges were eventually dropped against Joseph Weekley but the cases took five years to wind through the courts. Joseph Weekley still faces two civil cases in connection with the 2010 shooting. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.