Conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh told his audience Friday that the information found in the WikiLeaks dumps of John Podesta’s emails confirms “everything” written in Breitbart News    Peter Schweizer’s book Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary. [“These WikiLeaks dumps are documenting practically everything that Schweizer wrote,” Limbaugh said. “Everything in Schweizer’s book  —   we didn’t need it documented, we knew it was true. ”  “That book nails the Clintons. ” The conservative talk radio legend was responding to a caller who said he educates potential voters by explaining to them how   of State Hillary Clinton helped broker the sale of 20% of U. S. uranium to the Russian government. Indeed, in 2010, Clinton approved the transfer of half of U. S. Uranium output to the Kremlin. As Clinton Cash documents in great detail, Hillary Clinton’s State Department was one of eight agencies to review the deal  —   but Hillary Clinton was the only agency head whose family foundation received $145 million in donations from people connected to the sale, as reported by the New York Times. In fact, Ian Telfer, the head of the Russian government’s uranium company, made a secret $2. 35 million foreign donation to the Clinton Foundation, a Times investigation confirmed: As the Russians gradually assumed control of Uranium One in three separate transactions from 2009 to 2013, Canadian records show, a flow of cash made its way to the Clinton Foundation. Uranium One’s chairman used his family foundation to make four donations totaling $2. 35 million   …     Other people with ties to the company made donations as well. Bill Clinton also received a $500, 000 speaking fee for a speech in Moscow paid for by a Russian   bank. “And, in one case, a Russian investment bank connected to the deals paid money to Bill Clinton personally, through a    speaker’s fee,” reports the New Yorker. “The   are not reporting it,” Limbaugh fumed. “They don’t have him on as a guest to explain it. They ignore it, or try to ridicule it. ” Before it was released last year, the New York Times bestselling investigative exposé Clinton Cash was being called the “most anticipated and feared book of a presidential cycle,” according to the New York Times. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson