  Michael Ian Black shared a link to a fake news website in an attempt to criticize Breitbart News as “ ” in a post on his social media account on Saturday. [Writing on his Twitter account, the Child’s First Book of Trump author posted a link to a fake news website, bartbartnews. com, to claim that Breitbart News had posted a “  piece” because it’s “what they love. ”  As if on cue, Breitbart has a   piece because they are Jew bashers. It’s what they love. Happy Hanukkah. https:  .   —   Michael Ian Black (@michaelianblack) December 18, 2016,  When informed by a Twitter user that the link he had posted was fake, Black responded by further bashing former Breitbart News chairman and current White House chief strategist Steve Bannon. HOISTED ON MY OWN PETARD! But Steve Bannon is still a white supremacist with   leanings and a history of domestic abuse. _( ツ) ¯ https:  .   —   Michael Ian Black (@michaelianblack) December 18, 2016,  I’m bashing Steve Bannon and the Breitbart Organization. If some Jews work among them then yes, I am bashing them as well. https:  .   —   Michael Ian Black (@michaelianblack) December 18, 2016,  Earlier Saturday, the    Wet Hot American Summer star tweeted a response to a Breitbart News article that had mentioned him, writing that he had “finally” been “attacked by Breitbart. ” The article noted that Black was one of several celebrities who had criticized   Donald Trump over the ongoing violence in Aleppo, Syria. FINALLY attacked by Breitbart.  (BTW, Steve Bannon is a white supremacist) https:  .   —   Michael Ian Black (@michaelianblack) December 17, 2016,  The bartbartnews. com website is clearly fake its header features an   version of the real Breitbart. com’s “B” logo and also includes a tagline: “Where America Gets More News. ” “Bartbart News is a source of news that’s more truthful than other news. We only report on real things and pride ourselves on the things we do well,” the fake website’s “About” section reads. When reached for comment on Sunday, Black  —   who got his start in Hollywood on the MTV comedy show The State and and is currently filming the Netflix series Wet Hot American Summer: 10 Years Later, the second followup to the 2001 movie  —   explained that he had linked to the fake site in error and did not remove the post because he anticipated he would be criticized for doing so. “I linked to the site in error and, in my next tweet, admitted my error,” Black wrote in a tweet. “I didn’t remove it because the last time I removed an offending post, I got attacked for both posting and then removing the post. I figured it was better just to leave the admission of error and original post in place. ” “Steve Bannon remains a white supremacist with   leanings and a history of domestic abuse,” he added. Breitbart just contacted me about an article I linked to a parody site which I mistakenly attributed to Breitbart. Q’s and A’s below. pic. twitter.   —   Michael Ian Black (@michaelianblack) December 18, 2016,  Notably, Black’s tweets represent precisely the kind of “targeted harassment” (predicated on fake news, no less) that Twitter has accused conservative commentators of perpetrating, including Breitbart’s own Milo Yiannopoulos. Yiannopoulos was banned from the service earlier this summer.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum