Defeated by Donald J. Trump in the 2016 primaries and derided by fellow Republicans for his subsequent embrace of Mr. Trump, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has quietly emerged as one of the most influential advisers to his party’s presumptive presidential nominee and one of the leading contenders to be his running mate. Four months after endorsing Mr. Trump, Mr. Christie remains one of the few major figures in the Republican establishment to align himself entirely with Mr. Trump’s candidacy. In public, he has defended Mr. Trump’s freewheeling and sometimes offensive pronouncements, vouching for him even after Mr. Trump attacked a federal judge for his Mexican heritage. (Mr. Christie said he knew from personal experience that Mr. Trump was not a racist.) Mr. Christie is among those being vetted as Mr. Trump’s possible running mate, according to people briefed on the process, and Mr. Trump has said in interviews that Mr. Christie would have a prominent place in a Trump White House. Already, Mr. Christie has begun the task of designing a government on Mr. Trump’s behalf. Chosen to lead Mr. Trump’s transition efforts, Mr. Christie has taken a role that some of his allies liken to that of a White House chief of staff, soliciting views on what a potential administration should look like. Mr. Christie has taken the transition process firmly in hand, according to people familiar with his activities. He has enlisted his former top aide in Trenton, Richard H. Bagger, to help manage the transition team. On a conference call with several dozen of Mr. Christie’s political allies on Thursday afternoon, he and Mr. Bagger said they aimed to have a long list of possible appointees drawn up for Mr. Trump by the time of the election. And they outlined plans to fund their early preparations through a nonprofit group, people briefed on the plans said, and asked for help raising money until they receive government support after the July conventions for their transition efforts. Behind the scenes, Mr. Christie has prodded his fellow governors and Republican political donors to line up behind a candidate many view with distaste. He has made only modest headway in the last few months: Mr. Trump has struggled badly with   and Mr. Christie has pleaded with donors in personal phone calls and at   events to give him a second look. At a breakfast   in Manhattan last week, Mr. Christie cajoled reluctant donors to back Mr. Trump, arguing that giving anything less than enthusiastic support would be a de facto vote for Hillary Clinton. And he has prodded Mr. Trump, too, to shift direction at key moments: Mr. Christie was among the senior Republicans who privately urged Mr. Trump to dismiss his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, who was widely distrusted by national party leaders and other members of the Trump inner circle. Mr. Christie’s new role is a stark transformation from a boastfully independent   politician determined to win over female, Hispanic and Asian voters, to the   man of the most culturally polarizing presidential candidate in a generation. Politically, it represents a drastic gamble for Mr. Christie, a wager that he will be better off as a loyal and   footman for an unpopular nominee than as a sulking former opponent plotting his eventual comeback. Should Mr. Christie seek the presidency again, he would probably be identified  —   for better or worse  —   not as a leader of the mainstream Republican Party, but as a champion of Mr. Trump’s faction. Mr. Christie has also acknowledged to friends that Mr. Trump seized much of the political space Mr. Christie had hoped to occupy in his own presidential run  —   that of a blunt leader with an expansive media profile and a forceful message on terrorism. But some Republicans are disheartened by Mr. Christie’s integration into the Trump machinery, seeing it as a lost opportunity to build a more inclusive Republican Party this election year. Joel Maiola, a New Hampshire strategist who helped steer Mr. Christie’s campaign in the state, said he had been “confused and not overly happy” about Mr. Christie’s involvement in the Trump operation. “I think he’s been diminished by the way the Trump organization has used him, and I think that’s really unfortunate,” Mr. Maiola said. He described Mr. Christie’s efforts to unite the party behind Mr. Trump as largely futile because of Mr. Trump’s divisive approach to the presidential race. “He just seems to blow up the efforts that Governor Christie has been making to sort of form those alliances and form those bridges,” Mr. Maiola said. A spokesman for Mr. Christie declined to comment on his involvement with the Trump campaign or to make Mr. Christie available for an interview. Mr. Trump has been outwardly receptive to Mr. Christie’s coaching. The two men describe each other as friends with an acquaintance dating back 15 years, to early in Mr. Christie’s political career. Even during their clash in the Republican primaries, Mr. Christie spoke warmly of Mr. Trump as a friend as an endorser, Mr. Christie has shown loyalty that has been noted with appreciation by Mr. Trump and his children. And Mr. Trump has given credit to the governor for helping him win the Republican nomination. Addressing a   in Manhattan last week, Mr. Trump thanked Mr. Christie for his political advice and his sophisticated grasp of government  —   and, perhaps most of all, for his part in demolishing Senator Marco Rubio’s presidential campaign. The New Jersey governor, Mr. Trump said, gutted Mr. Rubio so thoroughly in a February debate that he was content simply to sit back and enjoy the show. He kidded Mr. Christie, “Thank you, Chris, for being the bad guy,” according to some in attendance who paraphrased Mr. Trump’s remarks. But Mr. Christie’s proximity to the possible next president has come at a price. And as a Trump advocate, he has also run up against the limits of his own influence. Shortly after backing Mr. Trump, Mr. Christie visited one of his close friends in politics, Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, in Annapolis. Over breakfast in the governor’s mansion, Mr. Christie and Mr. Hogan discussed the presidential race, and Mr. Hogan made it clear that he did not share Mr. Christie’s enthusiasm for Mr. Trump. Mr. Hogan is one of several Republican governors, including Charlie Baker of Massachusetts and Rick Snyder of Michigan, who have said they will not support Mr. Trump. “They’ve agreed to disagree on this particular issue, and there’s no kind of confrontation,” said Matthew A. Clark, a spokesman for Mr. Hogan. “Governor Christie did not make any attempt to change Governor Hogan’s mind. ” In New Jersey, Mr. Christie’s already low approval ratings slipped further after he endorsed Mr. Trump. And on a more personal level, Mr. Christie has been routinely taunted by Democrats and more than a few fellow Republicans for his perceived obsequiousness around Mr. Trump. A gregarious politician who routinely refers to other officeholders by their first names, Mr. Christie was pilloried in late February for referring to his friend as “Mr. Trump” in announcing his support. Soon after, Mr. Trump was caught on a microphone in Arkansas curtly telling Mr. Christie that he should go home after having finished his remarks. On the night of the March 1 primaries, Mr. Christie became the subject of internet memes featuring his seemingly vacant expression as he stood at Mr. Trump’s shoulder during his victory speech. In June, Mr. Christie’s staff flatly denied an account in The New Yorker that Mr. Christie had been captured on video fetching fast food for Mr. Trump. Mr. Christie has shrugged off any hard feelings about the mockery he draws on the campaign trail, but he has also recently stepped away from the stump and opted for a more discreet role. Thomas H. Kean, a former New Jersey governor, said Mr. Christie had described himself as deeply involved in Mr. Trump’s activities. “He was advising him on speeches he’s advising him on policies,” Mr. Kean said. Mr. Kean added: “He’s in a position to be a good adviser. Whether Trump will listen to him or not, I don’t know. ”