Militant ‘ ’ launched a brutal attack on an advocate of traditional marriage, in front of his wife and young children as they headed towards a march in support of families. [Two videos show the unprovoked attack on the man as he and his family walked to join tens of thousands of protesters who marched through the streets of Paris urging the government to repeal laws allowing   marriage.  Catching sight of the father’s flag in support of the Manif pour Tous (March for All) movement,“ ” can be see throwing themselves on him, one dragging him backward away from his family before pushing the man into a wall and holding him. Several of the  ’ allies are then seen swarming around, whooping and taunting the target before one   activist launched a kick from behind so hard the March for All supporter is sent spinning to the ground. As the father gets up to rejoin his family, one of the   extremists can be heard shouting “We will hang you b**tards”. As the assault plays out, the victim’s daughter can be seen clutching her mother for comfort and averting her eyes from the gang attacking her father.  Tens of thousands of people assembled in Paris on Sunday to support the   marriage March for All’s demonstration at which crowds protested against the “offensive against the family” and demanded the government repeal laws allowing   marriage.   #LaManifPourTous still mobilizing very well indeed  …    Live photos, moments ago via @LaManifPourTous#ONLR#16oct pic. twitter.   —   Europe Espérance (@europesperance) October 16, 2016,  The demonstration, at which police estimated at least 24, 000 French marched from the Paris Metro’s Dauphine station to the Trocadero site, passed off with few disturbances. Les #femen expulsées de #LaManifPourTous pic. twitter.   —   Antoine Marette (@antoine_marette) October 16, 2016,  There were 13 arrests made at the procession in total, six of which were of members of the militant,   feminist group Femen.   activists from the   organisation chanting slogans like “hate is not a family value” and attempted to disrupt the march but were taken away by officials. Other arrests were made related to people in possession of illegal drugs and weapons, the prefecture said.