Today is the first anniversary of the Islamic State’s first attack in the homeland. [Just a couple of short months later, in response to the Chattanooga jihadi who slaughtered four Marines, one Navy officer said: “The War Has Just Begun. More to Come. ”  He was right. Yet one year after jihadis attacked our Muhammad Art Exhibit and Cartoon Contest in defense of free speech, the West is in full surrender mode. In the wake of the Garland jihad attacks, the world says: let the bullies silence you. Don’t draw Muhammad. Comply with their other demands. Garland changed everything for my colleagues and me. Its personal toll has been enormous. It has affected our lives and our careers in innumerable ways, all of them negative. Our security costs are now astronomical. We cannot step outside without remembering that we are hunted, and at any time jihadis could strike at us. We went into the event with our eyes open. We knew the risks. But we knew the risks were greater, for our children and our children’s children, if we allowed the freedom of speech to be destroyed by violent intimidation. Yet still we were cast as the villains. An imam told Sean Hannity that I should be executed.   media and political figures agreed with him that in standing for free speech, I had provoked the jihadis. Fox News host Martha McCallum pleaded with me to respect Islam and constrain myself. Bill O’Reilly said I “spurred” the violence. Erin Burnett accused me of “relishing” being targeted for beheading. Alisyn Camerota on CNN battled with me, trying to bully me into adhering to sharia law. Chris Cuomo was almost brought to tears by the thought of drawing Muhammad. Juan Williams and I had a   drag out on Hannity. Geraldo Rivera compared me to the Aryan Nation, skinheads, and the KKK, and said, “Every time I see her on TV, I want to take a shower. ” Carly Fiorina likened our free speech event to white supremacist marching. Donald Trump said I was an obnoxious blowhard (!) who was taunting Muslims. The list is long. The leftist networks (i. e. MSNBC) were unhinged. I could go on, but you get the picture. One year on, jihad in America is raging. We were right. Gerard Perry wrote an excellent essay on the “shortsightedness of the media lynch mob. ” But still people are afraid to have me speak. CPAC refused to allow me to host an event. Ironically, Donald Trump is suffering the same abuse I received from him, for speaking candidly about jihad terror and Muslim immigration. What have we learned since Garland? Nothing. But here is what we know and what the media does not deign to cover, as they are too consumed with destroying the GOP and its presidential candidates. The mediasphere is devoid of actual news now. Authorities investigated whether the San Bernardino jihad killers had been in touch with an alleged ISIS operative from Minnesota, just as one of the jihadis did before the Garland free speech shooting. The Muslim mastermind in the Garland jihad attack was indeed tied to ISIS. This represents an epic intel failure. That mastermind was convicted of conspiring to support ISIS in an Arizona trial. The FBI disclosed that a jihadi at our free speech event messaged multiple foreign Muslim fighters. These were devout, observant Muslims. A former roommate of the Garland jihadis said they regularly participated in Friday prayers at their mosque, and wanted “to blow up nonbelievers. ” He also said that they regular went target shooting after Friday prayers. But the FBI is bound as a matter of policy to ignore things like that. The FBI failed to heed public warnings of jihadi plans to hit our free speech event. More came out recently in the trial of the Boston Muslims who plotted to behead me last summer, after ISIS put a fatwa on my head. Even while awaiting trial, these jihadis tried to organize beheadings from jail. Prosecutors revealed that an ISIS ebook helped inspire the attack on me. A   ISIS operative instructed American Muslims to kill me. An informant in the case on the jihad attack in Garland said there were 50 to 80 more Muslim terrorists out there, ready to strike. And yet TIME magazine lamented that Muhammad cartoons make Muslims “feel less safe. ” The Garland jihad was followed by a spate of   attacks on American soil. Here is a list of the acts of jihad in the US since the Garland, Texas jihad shooting. It is only the US  —   mind you, the Muslim invasion of Europe and its attendant violence, brutality, and supremacism is not included. This is just in the USA since Garland, May 3, 2015. I was stunned assembling this list. Even me, and I have been covering jihad activity    for the past 13 years. I am stunned that we are more cowed than ever. Stunned that my colleagues and I are still blacklisted, shunned, and demonized. Stunned that hate groups such as the SPLC and   groups like CAIR and ISNA are given the imprimatur of legitimacy by the media and academic elites. Stunned, in light of the rivers of blood. Since the Garland jihad plot: In the Boston beheading plot, charges include material support for the Islamic State. Feds arrested a fifth man in connection with a group of Brooklyn ISIS sympathizers who were charged with plotting to join the jihad group and attack the United States. A Virginia Muslim teen pleaded guilty to helping ISIS. Florida Muslims faced prison for a jihad mass murder bomb plot in New York City.  A Rhode Islam Muslim was tied to the Boston beheading plot. In Kansas, a Muslim convert pleaded guilty in a WMD jihad suicide plot against the Wichita Airport. He aimed at inflicting “maximum carnage. ” In New Jersey, another Muslim was arrested for an ISIS plot, and his brothers were named as alleged  . In Ohio: a Muslim declared that he was ready to “cut off the head of his   son” in order to prove his worth as a Muslim. He was indicted on charges of supporting the Islamic State. An FBI agent was   by a Muslim during an ISIS investigation in New York City. The Feds revealed that the Muslims who attacked our Garland event had considered an attack on the Super Bowl. A Muslim student was charged with plotting to bomb a New York City landmark and later cut a plea deal. An ISIS Jihadist tweeted out my personal address and called on Muslims to kill me.  Last summer, thirty Muslims in the U. S. were arrested for a July 4 terror plot, reportedly including two women who called themselves “bad b*****s” and were plotting another Boston bombing, a National Guardsman who wanted to “repeat Charlie Hebdo,” and “Minnesota martyrs. ” A “strict Muslim” from Seattle was charged with murder and terrorism, including a double shooting outside a gay night club. He was on a terrorism watch list. A Muslim convert who was the son of a Boston police captain was charged with plotting attacks on college campuses for ISIS. His alleged plot involved “explosives filled with black powder, nails, ball bearings and glass, in places where large numbers of people congregate, like college cafeterias. ”  In Chattanooga, a Muslim shot five soldiers he was inspired by ISIS. In New York, a Muslim pizza shop owner was charged and later convicted for recruiting for the Islamic state. In Washington, DC, a Muslim was charged with funding and recruiting for the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan. US authorities sought to revoke the citizenship of an Oregon imam accused of “dealing directly” with Osama bin Laden.  The director of the FBI warned that the Islamic State was recruiting in all 50 states. A Florida Muslim was arrested for an alleged WMD plot to bomb a Florida beach. Authorities say he expressed a desire to “cook American[s]   …     in cages” and also boasted: “We will destroy America” and “We will raise our black flag on top of your White House. ” A New York Muslim  —   who police say threatened to behead his daughter in 2013  —   was charged with aiding ISIS and recruiting for it. A witness told the FBI that he argued ISIS’s murders of Muslims were justified because “the victims were not Muslims. ” A New Jersey Muslim was arrested for allegedly organizing a “small army” of ISIS fighters in New York and New Jersey. Two Mississippi Muslims were charged with trying to join ISIS. The FBI issued an alert about “  males” who were approaching the family members of US military personnel. A Florida Muslim who plotted a WMD attack on a beach had been cleared to work at the Key West airport, in a job that gave him direct access to secure areas. A Mississippi Muslim allegedly threatened to kill   hospital staff after issuing a series of bomb threats. A US Muslim teen was jailed for more than 11 years for waging jihad with the Islamic State. An Arizona Muslim was charged with supporting ISIS. ISIS posted a list of 1, 400 U. S. “targets”: “soon with the permission of Allah will strike at your necks in your own lands!” A California Muslim pleaded guilty to trying to join ISIS.  ISIS claimed responsibility for a shooting at Umpqua College. In New Jersey, a Muslim teen who supported ISIS was charged in a plot targeting the   Memorial.  Several Minnesota Muslims pleaded guilty to joining ISIS. An   Muslim was arrested in New York City. He said: “I’m ready to die for the Caliphate. ” The FBI foiled an Islamic plot to kill the Pope during his US visit. ISIS threatened US colleges: “We are coming. ” At Union Station in Washington, DC, a   man slashed a woman and charged at a police officer. Robert Spencer suggested that his name indicated an Islamic conversion. Muslim students at the University of   Cities (UMN) rejected a Moment of Recognition Resolution for   saying it was “Islamophobic. ” An   Muslim in Ohio is charged with plotting to kill US soldiers and bomb churches and schools, allegedly posting online: “Behead them in their own homes. ”’ The FBI revealed that it had 900 ongoing   investigations. Faisal Mohammad, a Muslim student at the University of California Merced, went on a stabbing spree, smiling as he slashed at his victims. Law enforcement officials said he was on a terror watch list, and the university was warned of the threat he posed, but nothing was done to stop him. Only many months later did the FBI finally admit that he was inspired by the Islamic State. An NYPD undercover officer foiled a jihad bomb plot in New York City. An   engineer at a US defense contractor was given an   sentence for giving details about US jets to Iran. A Muslim who plotted to build a   training camp in Oregon was also sentenced. The US charged an American Muslim with helping an Al   group. In San Bernardino, two Muslims carried out a mass jihad shooting at a Christmas party, murdering 14 people. Before carrying out that jihad massacre, the San Bernardino jihad gunman had visited 11 school cafeterias. The San Bernardino jihadis pledged allegiance to ISIS during their attack. Nonetheless, the Obama Administration nixed a probe into the San Bernardino jihadists, who had practiced for their attack a year in advance. San Bernardino killer Syed Rizwan Farook discussed carrying out a jihad attack three years ago. A Muslim neighbor now faces federal charges for providing the San Bernardino jihadis with guns. Three relatives of the jihad killers were later arrested. In Minnesota, a Muslim refugee from Somalia was arrested for allegedly aiding ISIS. In California, a Muslim reportedly brandished a sword and chased down a neighbor while screaming, “I would die and kill for Allah. ” In Philadelphia, a Muslim stands accused of shooting a police officer thirteen times. According to local media, eyewitnesses reported that he exclaimed he did it “in the name of Islam. ” His imam lied about the shooter’s ties to his mosque. The FBI opened an investigation into the shooter’s ties to a larger Islamic terror cell. Police later said that he had pledged allegiance to ISIS. A Muslim refugee in California was arrested on terror charges including lying to federal agents about joining a jihad terror group in Syria. A New York Muslim allegedly planned a New Year’s machete attack in the name of ISIS. The attempted beheading of a    New York boy was seen as an “ISIS audition. ’” A California Muslim was arrested for allegedly threatening jihad on police and making a bomb threat. A freeway   plot raised worries in Southern California. A Muslim man in Pennsylvania was charged with supporting the Islamic State, and court documents say he was seeking to buy a Yazidi slave girl. The Philly Muslim teen allegedly operated 57 Twitter accounts for ISIS propaganda and recruitment. A devout Muslim allegedly threatened to kill NYPD and Philadelphia cops  —   and pledged allegiance to ISIS. In Virginia, two Muslims were charged in yet another ISIS terror plot. A Muslim refugee allegedly planned to bomb Texas malls, saying: “I am against America. ” Prosecutors say a Muslim refugee in California was “eager to see blood” and wanted to learn “long range shooting. ” He allegedly said that “Allah has facilitated” his travels. 41 Muslim “refugees” in the US were arrested on jihad terror charges. In Columbus, Ohio, a Muslim named Muhammad Barry slashed at patrons in a restaurant owned by a proudly   Israeli Christian. In Washington, a Muslim prisoner allegedly screamed “Allahu akbar” and tried to kill a corrections officer. An Washington Muslim was arrested on charges of supporting ISIS. He allegedly said: “I feel the duty to kill” U. S. servicemen and stand accused of plotting to attack a military base. A Michigan Muslim, 22, was arrested for “planning to shoot up a church to support ISIS. ” FBI documents quote him as saying: “It is my dream to behead someone. ” A Kansas Muslim vowed to “bring the Islamic State straight to your doorstep” with a 1, 000 pound bomb. A North Carolina ISIS terrorist was indicted for allegedly killing his neighbor and asking an FBI agent to kill his parents, as part of an alleged jihad plot to kill 1, 000 people. A Florida Muslim leader referred to Jews as “pigs” and “monkeys. ” This kind of language incites Muslims to violence. The FBI thwarted a mass shooting at a Milwaukee Masonic temple allegedly plottedby a devout Muslim. He reportedly said: “We are Muslims defending the Muslim religion. ” A Muslim veteran of the US Air Force was found guilty of trying to join ISIS. ISIS issued a kill list of Air Force, FBI, and military personnel, along with government officials, commanding Muslims to “slay them wherever you find them. ” In New York City, a Muslim man with a long rap sheet allegedly ambushed and fired upon eight NYPD cops, injuring two officers. A Muslim who had been in contact with ISIS was charged with threatening to blow up a Walgreens in a Minneapolis suburb. An anonymous threat against an NBA game in Los Angeles reportedly said: “You are all going to [expletive] die tonight, you filthy Americans. ” A Virginia Muslim pleaded guilty to conspiring to help ISIS prosecutors quoted him as wanting to “chop [off] heads. ” The Muslim father of an ISIS member in Virginia attacked reporters on camera. The Feds alleged that devout Muslims in Minnesota spoke of carrying out jihad terror attacks inside the US for the Islamic State. One suspect revealed plans to open up a route from Syria to the U. S. through Mexico. The ISIS United Cyber Caliphate posted 3, 600 NY residents’ names and addresses, saying: “We Want Them #Dead” A Michigan church website was defaced with an ominous jihadi message from ISIS. The result of this epidemic of jihad attacks? Obama’s dawah speech about how “Islam is Peace” is repeated weekly, sometimes daily now. What have we learned? Are mosques being monitored? All of these jihadis regularly worshiped at mosques. What is being taught at these mosques? Are investigators simply going to assume that these mosques are “moderate” and that the jihadis are “radicalized” elsewhere? If that is true, why couldn’t the peaceful teachings they heard at the mosque withstand the appeal of the “radicals”? Right now, nothing is being done to stop jihad recruiting in U. S. mosques, even as several hundred young Muslims from the U. S. have gone to wage jihad for the Islamic State and are now waging jihad here. U. S. law enforcement officials must take it upon themselves to learn about what Islam and jihad are really all about, then strategize accordingly about how to stop it. The mosques must be monitored. Muslim immigration must stop. All over the world, the brutal sharia is being imposed on   and free thinkers. Bangladesh is awash in the blood of free thinkers, poets, secularists, and  . The slaughter there is daily now. Devout Muslims tried to kill us in Garland one year ago today for the same reason: perceived insults to Muhammad  —   in other words, violation of Islamic law. Under Islamic law, just a whisper that you offended or criticized Muhammad, and you are marked for death. It’s just that simple. The world is looking away, just as it did during the rise of the Third Reich. Deaf, dumb, blind is the world to the extermination of millions in jihad wars. There is no excuse now. Echoing Dr. Ernst Janning from Judgment at Nuremberg, no one can pretend not to know. There are websites  —   mine, Jihad Watch, The Religion of Peace, et al. “We didn’t know” won’t fly. The world was guilty then, and the world is guilty now. Then, the world said, “take Sudetenland. Take the Rhineland, Take Austria. Take Czechoslovakia. ” And now, the world says, take Syria. Take Gaza, Take Judea, Samaria, Lebanon, the Ivory Coast, Libya  …     The world says, “Islam is peace. ” The world says, “It’s not millions of victims, it’s hundreds. ” That’s a blatant lie, but what difference does that make? We stand for justice, truth, and the value of a single human. What will you tell your children and grandchildren when they ask you, “Where were you?” Listen to Geller on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM this morning: Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.