TEL AVIV  —   An email sent through Hillary Clinton’s private sever betrayed the name of the National Security Agency’s representative to the State Department. [The email was contained in a batch of 296 pages of Clinton’s correspondence released on Tuesday in response to a Judicial Watch lawsuit. The emails, reviewed in full by Breitbart Jerusalem, include 44 messages that were not previously released.  One email was sent to Clinton at her private email address from aide Cheryl Mills, stating the name of the NSA rep. The name was redacted in the version of the email released by the State Department to Judicial Watch. The stamp on the email relates the name was redacted by the NSA itself. Mills wrote: “I’m meeting with the NSA person today. (REDACTED NAME  —   NSA’s rep to DOS)  —   she indicated they could address our BB so that BB could work in the sciff (sic) and be secure based upon some modifications that could be done to each BB (more below). ” DOS references the Department of State. BB is State lingo for Blackberry. Sciff, is likely SCIF, or Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility, a secure area designated to process Sensitive Compartmented Information kinds of classified information. “That’s good news,” Clinton wrote back to Mills, meaning the NSA agent’s name was circulated twice though Clinton’s private server. Although entirely unrelated, the release of the email mentioning the NSA agent ironically comes one week after William Binney, a former highly placed NSA official, declared in a   radio interview with this reporter that the NSA has “all” of Clinton’s deleted emails and the FBI could gain access to them if they so desired. Binney was an architect of the NSA’s surveillance program. He became a famed whistleblower when he resigned on October 31, 2001, after spending more than 30 years with the agency. Binney subsequently commented to Breitbart News today on the latest development of the email in Clinton’s server citing the name of the NSA Agent. Binney referred to the June 2015 hacking of the United States Office of Personnel Management, which reportedly included obtaining data on government employees, including those in the intelligence community. “It’s a joke at this point,” Binney said. “Who are we hiding the names from? Certainly not the Chinese or the Russians or other advisories anymore after this data breach. ” Government investigators at the time had “a high degree of confidence that OPM systems containing information related to the background investigations of current, former, and prospective federal government employees, and those for whom a federal background investigation was conducted, may have been exfiltrated,” Samuel Schumach, a spokesman for the U. S. personnel agency, told reporters regarding the breach. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook. With research by Joshua Klein.