At Bill Cunningham’s funeral on Thursday morning, Anna Wintour wore blue Carolina Herrera, Annette de la Renta had on a light pleated summer dress that went to the knee, and Mercedes Bass opted for basic black. They came to the Church of St. Thomas More on East 89th Street in Manhattan to pay their respects to a man who had taken their pictures for the last 40 to 50 years. One of the many sad things about this day was that there were no photographers, in keeping with a request by Mr. Cunningham’s family, who asked that things stay simple and private. In a way, it made sense. Although Mr. Cunningham, who died on Saturday at 87, had been photographing New Yorkers since 1967, the year the illustrator Antonio Lopez gave him his first camera, he hardly appreciated being the subject of attention. A documentary was made about Mr. Cunningham in 2010, and he said until the end of his life that he had not seen it. Standing outside the church, David Wolfson, a longtime friend of Mr. Cunningham’s, told a story about a birthday dinner that was organized last October in Mr. Cunningham’s honor. “He looked great,” Mr. Wolfson said. “Even though he didn’t like the fuss of it. ” That was Mr. Cunningham’s way. He was the sort of fellow who found his greatest enjoyment in simply doing his work. And he did it all the way to the wire, darting around town on his bicycle to attend everything from galas at the Museum of Modern Art to raucous   parties with drag queens and gym bunnies. Susanne Bartsch, who arrived in a leatherette and lace jacket with exaggerated shoulder detailing, had seen Mr. Cunningham at one of those parties back in April. For once, she thought, he had seemed a little off his game. “I could tell it was getting hot for him,” she said. “He wasn’t running around as fast as he usually did. He couldn’t hear well anymore. He looked more frail. ” Yet Mr. Cunningham nevertheless took her picture, wearing a very baroque pink and gold biker jacket with lacy boots and one of her trademark wigs, for The New York Times. Shortly before Mr. Cunningham had a stroke and wound up in the hospital, he encountered Dean Baquet, The Times’s executive editor, and his wife, the writer Dylan Landis, at a party. Mr. Cunningham snapped their picture. A few days later, Mr. Baquet recalled, Mr. Cunningham walked into the office and dropped off a print. Which was business as usual with the people he photographed. Right around 10:30 a. m. on Thursday, a group of Mr. Cunningham’s nieces and nephews arrived at the church, along with the procession. A car from the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home delivered the coffin that carried Mr. Cunningham. It was covered with an American flag, and carried into the church by a group of men in boxy suits. A simple religious ceremony followed, along with an emotional tribute from John Kurdewan, Mr. Cunningham’s assistant at The Times. He said that even in the hospital, toward the end, Mr. Cunningham was counting the photos for a layout of his Evening Hours column. After the service, mourners streamed onto the sidewalk as a kilted bagpiper played a solemn tune. Pallbearers carried out the coffin and marched with it toward the car. A trumpeter began to blow a rendition of “America the Beautiful. ” The flag was removed from the coffin, and the crowd looked out at the summer sky. It was not a crowded scene, though a memorial planned for this summer certainly will be. On this day there were just a hundred or so of Mr. Cunningham’s closest friends, relatives and admirers. On one side of the stairs was Ms. Wintour, who began appearing in Mr. Cunningham’s columns years before she became the editor of Vogue. On the other was Ms. de la Renta, who long ago discovered that Mr. Cunningham’s favorite shots were not of her traipsing around in couture, but of her stepping into a puddle. In life, Mr. Cunningham had always been a little elusive, yet here he was surrounded by the patchwork of families he had amassed. There were blood relatives, colleagues from The Times, including the publisher, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr. and people Mr. Cunningham had discovered on the street. Among this last group was Louise Doktor, an administrative assistant at a Midtown holding company, who wore a black pleated Issey Miyake shawl and carried a Céline bag covered in feathers. With her was Jenny Kee, with a big red pair of glasses and a dark red kimono. Nearby was a more simply dressed man in his 30s, looking over the funeral program, which ended with a quote from Mr. Cunningham: “It is as true today as it ever was. He who seeks beauty shall find it. ”