 (CNN) Even when doing bitter north London rival Arsenal a favor of sorts, Tottenham Hotspur found a way to stick the boot in. Spurs’ deserved   win over Chelsea ensured the Gunners remain holders of the English Premier League’s longest winning run. Yet the result also meant Tottenham overtook its neighbor in the EPL table. Chelsea had won 13 EPL matches on the bounce going into Wednesday’s hotly anticipated fixture, a   record first set by Arsene Wenger’s side at the end of the   campaign.  Although Arsenal did eventually win 14 consecutive games, that feat was achieved with one extra win at the start of the   season.  However, two headed goals from   England midfielder Dele Alli put an end to any Chelsea ideas of matching that particular  . Read: English football’s festive schedule criticized, Perhaps of more immediate importance, Tottenham’s triumph prevents the footballing juggernaut that has been Antonio Conte’s side in recent weeks disappearing over the horizon towards the Premier League title. Chelsea is five points clear at the summit of the EPL after a hectic Christmas and New Year period that saw rivals Arsenal, Liverpool and Manchester City also drop points. ”It’s a pity to stop this run,” Chelsea boss Conte told Sky Sports after the match. ”But Tottenham is a good team, a really strong team . .. and for sure one of the teams that can fight for the title until the end.” Tottenham moved above Arsenal and Manchester City into third position, seven points behind Chelsea and two behind   Liverpool.  But things could have turned out very differently at White Hart Lane had Eden Hazard taken a glorious early chance for the visiting side. Read: Is Guardiola nearing the end of his managerial career? The Belgium star fluffed his lines when latching on to Nemanja Matic’s floated through ball after only four minutes.  Tottenham responded when Christian Eriksen fired wide from just outside the area.  But the Denmark international was more measured when he found Alli with a pinpoint cross to open the scoring with a header from eight yards out in   injury time.  Chelsea came out swinging at the start of the second period, with the EPL’s top scorer Diego Costa stinging the palms of Hugo Lloris in the Tottenham goal. Have your say on our Facebook page, However, Eriksen and Alli combined again in almost identical fashion after 53 minutes to double Spurs’ advantage. It was a sublime finish that secured the victory, and will doubtless be cheered by fans of the teams hoping to hunt down the league leader.  Visit cnn.  for more news and videos, Perhaps even those of an Arsenal persuasion.