“Homeland,” a series always conscious of current events, tries for some enforced topicality in its sixth season, which begins on Sunday on Showtime. Moving out of the fall for the first time, the show has a story line pegged to its new winter slot and to the recent election: The season is set during a presidential transition, with a   whose relationship to intelligence agencies is dicey. Not even the most prescient of shows can see the future perfectly, though. The fictional incipient president is a woman (played by Elizabeth Marvel) and her politics appear to be dovish: She floats the idea of the United States’ pulling all its troops out of the Middle East. Those details put quite a distance between “Homeland” and the reality of the real   Donald J. Trump. But it’s not gender or   views that make the show feel out of tune with the times. It’s the courtesy the characters exhibit as they argue and negotiate, their automatic respect for the traditional processes of government. Life, at the moment, is scarier than fiction, and compared with the wholesale disintegration of civility taking place in Washington, “Homeland” looks quaint. It’s as if it were happening in another century. And that’s not a bad thing. There’s something comforting about the normalcy of plot and counterplot, action and intrigue. Those have always been the series’s strong points, not ideas, and it may be easier to focus on them without worrying about how closely the story is mimicking events. This peripatetic show is set for the first time in New York, where the former C. I. A. officer Carrie Mathison (Claire Danes) is working for an outpost of the German foundation that employed her in Season 5. Otto Düring (Sebastian Koch) her boss and (as far as we know) unrequited admirer, asks why she’s wasting her time doing   work, helping Muslim Americans negotiate the legal system. The answer is that it’s where she can keep an eye on her soul mate, Quinn (Rupert Friend) who’s living in a veterans’ hospital after being   last season. The show’s usual roles have been reversed: Quinn is a   mess, and Carrie, who appears to be safely on her meds, is the caretaker. By the end of the season premiere, Quinn has moved into her basement.   episodes of “Homeland” tend to be a bit labored, as the elaborate machinery of the plot is put into place, and having only two episodes to review (presumably a defense against spoilers) makes it impossible to tell how   the machinery will be. Sunday’s premiere introduces two plot strands that we know will eventually, somehow, converge: A young Muslim video blogger (J. Mallory McCree) is arrested on what seem to be shaky grounds, and Dar (F. Murray Abraham) worries about a C. I. A. mission that needs to be completed quickly. Who’s the mole? When will Saul (Mandy Patinkin) stop doubting Carrie? In “Homeland” (as in “24,” also from the executive producer Howard Gordon) we look forward to the questions almost as much as to the answers. In the meantime, there’s more than enough pleasure to be had from the cast to keep us interested. Mr. Abraham and Mr. Patinkin, as his   C. I. A. colleague Saul, have perfected their partnership: Their scenes together are little masterpieces of gamesmanship and exasperation. Mr. Friend’s performance of   addiction may not convince every viewer, but it is, counterintuitively, fun to watch  —   he brings the same edge of sardonic humor to Quinn the junkie that he brought to Quinn the killing machine in past seasons. And Ms. Danes continues to deliver an interesting and sympathetic portrayal of a character whose trademark is her lack of humor. That’s a far more impressive trick than telling the future.