BATON ROUGE, La.  —   The protest of the fatal police shooting of a CD vendor here in Louisiana’s capital had many of the trappings of similar   around the country: blaring music, young men with faces obscured by bandannas, and obscene and brutal sentiments directed toward the local police department, on angry tongues and homemade placards. But as Wednesday night’s street rally flowed into Thursday morning, it had managed to be as peaceful as it was passionate. Cars and trucks honked, stopped and skidded as they made their way up and down a few blocks of North Foster Drive, past cheering and dancing crowds in front of the Triple S Food Mart where Alton Sterling, 37, was fatally shot early Tuesday by officers responding to a call about an armed man. The Justice Department opened a civil rights investigation into Mr. Sterling’s death after a searing video of the encounter, shown repeatedly on television and social media, reignited contentious issues surrounding police killings of  . Officials from Gov. John Bel Edwards to the local police and elected officials vowed a complete and transparent investigation and appealed to the city  —   after a numbing series of   racially charged incidents elsewhere  —   to remain calm. “I have full confidence that this matter will be investigated thoroughly, impartially and professionally,” Mr. Edwards said in announcing the federal takeover of the case. “I have very serious concerns. The video is disturbing, to say the least. ” Urging patience while the investigation takes place, the governor said: “I know that that may be tough for some, but it’s essential that we do that. I know that there are protests going on, but it’s urgent that they remain peaceful. ” The video of the shooting propelled the case to national attention, like a string of recorded police shootings before it. The shooting has prompted protests here, including a vigil with prayers and gospel music that drew hundreds of people Wednesday night to the storefront where it happened. Over the course of 10 hours, from about 4 p. m. to 2 a. m. Wednesday, when the crowd of hundreds outside the store finally began to thin, there had been almost no visible police presence  —   no squad cars, no uniformed officers, no helmeted   troops. Across the street from the store, scores of young men and women danced, often with hands up, through the stifling heat of a South Louisiana summer night, as Southern rap anthems boomed behind them. Teenagers draped themselves on the hoods of moving cars and poked their bodies out of sunroofs, driving over and over again up and down the block. James Woods, 22, a worker at a lumber company, was standing in front of a barbershop where a D. J. crew had set up, soaking it all in. “We’re here for a cause, and we’re not here to hurt each other,” he said. As he spoke, a scuffle, apparently between two young women, broke out by a Toyota sedan, but it was quickly broken up by others, and proved to be one of the rare such encounters of the night. When calm returned, Mr. Woods continued the conversation. He felt as if he had no choice but to come stand here and make it known that the shooting was not right. “I’m here to show that I stand up for the cause,” he said. “If I don’t stand up for something, then I’ll fall for anything. ” Kirpatrick Franklin, 46, a second cousin of Mr. Sterling’s, observed the proceedings with a stern face, but said he was pleased and proud that so many residents of Baton Rouge had turned out in force. He also made it clear that he could see no way the police might have been in the right. “The togetherness, the strength  —   I love it,” he said. “They need this now, because he was straight murdered. ” Local and state officials endorsed the federal takeover of the case. “We feel it is in the best interest of the Baton Rouge Police Department, the city of Baton Rouge and this community for this to happen,” said the police chief, Carl Dabadie Jr. In other cities with   deaths of people in police custody, when local law enforcement agencies have kept control of the investigations and prosecution, they have often drawn intense criticism for their handling of the cases. There are multiple videos that may show the conflict with Mr. Sterling, in addition to the one recorded by a bystander that has been made public, Lt. Jonny Dunnam, a police spokesman, said at a news conference. Edmond Jordan, the family lawyer, called on the police to release the videos, but Lieutenant Dunnam said that for now, the department was providing them only to the federal authorities. “We have   camera video footage, we have body camera video footage and there is video at the store,” Lieutenant Dunnam said. Of the recordings from the body cameras the officers wore, he said: “That footage may not be as good as we hoped for. During the altercation those body cameras came dislodged. ” On Tuesday, a person called the police to report that a black man in a red shirt selling music CDs outside the Triple S Food Mart had threatened him with a gun, the Police Department said. Two officers confronted Mr. Sterling about 12:35 a. m. Mr. Sterling had a long criminal history, including convictions for battery and illegal possession of a gun, but it is not clear whether the officers knew any of that as they tried to arrest him. The graphic cellphone video shot by a bystander, which was released later in the day, shows an officer pushing Mr. Sterling onto the hood of the car and then tackling him to the ground. He is held to the pavement by two officers, and one appears to hold a gun above Mr. Sterling’s chest. At one point someone on the video can be heard saying, “He’s got a gun! Gun!” and one officer can be seen pulling his weapon. After some shouting, what sounds like gunshots can be heard and the camera shifts away, and then there are more apparent gunshots. A second video, made by the owner of the store and first posted by the local newspaper, The Advocate, on Wednesday afternoon, shows the shooting from a different angle. It shows one of the officers taking something out of Mr. Sterling’s pocket after he was shot and was lying on the ground.