In the beginning, there was the procedural. “Dragnet,” “Law  Order” and the like set the template for television crime stories that took viewers briskly though the process by which bad guys get caught. “The Night Of,” the tense and exquisite limited series on HBO, beginning on Sunday, is also a deeply detailed procedural, but with a difference. It has more in common philosophically with the podcast “Serial” (whose first subject, Adnan Syed, was just granted a new trial) Netflix’s “Making a Murderer” and this year’s two O. J. Simpson series  —     stories that suggest that who is locked up, for what, is largely a matter of resources and random fate. In the fictional “The Night Of,” as in those stories, someone dies, and someone goes to trial, but the biggest suspect is the notion of egalitarian justice. The worst night of Nasir Khan’s life begins with promise. The studious, sexually inexperienced son of Pakistani immigrants, Naz, as he is known, drives his father’s cab from Queens to Manhattan, headed to a party. He’s told there will be girls. He never makes it. Andrea (Sofia  ’Elia) a young woman with sad, faraway eyes, mistakes him for a working cabby and hails a ride. It leads to conversation, a connection, a ride back to her townhouse. And then to drugs, sex  —   and Naz’s waking up to find her stabbed to death. Naz (Riz Ahmed) is picked up for the murder, smeared with DNA evidence. In retrospect, you see how the creators, Steven Zaillian (“Schindler’s List”) and Richard Price (“The Wire”) staged Naz’s last night of freedom  —   a   college kid’s walk on the wild side  —   as a pit of circumstantial quicksand: the casual encounters that will become eyewitness testimony the chain of bad breaks, bad timing and bad decisions. Mind your armrests when you watch it all unfold you may clutch them right through the upholstery. Naz is interrogated by Detective Dennis Box (Bill Camp) a glum loner whose eyes tell him that the case is    even as his gut says something’s off. Naz’s defense falls to John Stone (John Turturro)  —   a rumpled “precinct crawler” trolling the lockup for work  —   who lays out the stakes for a young Muslim in jail for killing a rich white girl. “Not to sound like a teabagger,” he says, “but how do you feel about America?” Stone’s part was meant for James Gandolfini (still listed as a producer). It would have been fascinating to see that bearish actor play a courthouse sad sack, but Mr. Turturro is a fine fit, as is Mr. Camp. They’re a pair of scuffed shoes on opposite feet of the law. The early episodes have a theaterlike intimacy, and they pay close attention to the particulars of arrest and processing. Mr. Ahmed deftly shows Naz’s dawning terror as his world becomes ever smaller the cinematography conveys the isolation, the disorientation, the feeling of being funneled down a dank,   chute into the system. It’s a slow ride to hell, last stop Rikers Island. A corrections officer asks Naz if he belongs to a gang he doesn’t, but it turns out that “yes” would have been the better answer. “Well, then, good luck to you,” the officer says. Prison is its own confounding gantlet, overseen by an imperious inmate, Freddy (Michael Kenneth Williams, characteristically smoldering) who may matter more to Naz’s survival than any judge. The later episodes become a more conventional legal story, as Stone patches together a defense, and the case becomes Nancy   in the media. There are nods to TV legal series throughout. When Stone prints   graphics at a copy shop, the clerk asks if he works for “Law  Order” prisoners at Rikers spend break time watching daytime court shows. The series excels at laying out the snowballing costs of a case, financial and psychological. Naz’s parents, who lose their livelihood when the cab is impounded, can’t afford a modest defense fee and have to make   decisions on the fly. They also lose a measure of trust in their son they want to believe him, but like us, they didn’t see him not commit the murder, either. And Naz’s experience in prison suggests that, convicted or acquitted, he will be permanently changed. As a legal procedural, “The Night Of” is richly detailed but profoundly unglamorous. A running subplot involves Stone’s unappetizing case of foot eczema. His journey from doctor to herbal healer to doctor, looking for a cure, becomes a symbol for the befuddling process of navigating the legal system. Justice, in this grand, grim story, has feet not of clay but of gross, itchy, mortal flesh. But still it must stumble forward.