 (CNN) Take a vast frozen lake, a Formula E driver, a Jaguar   and what do you get?  In Mitch Evans’ case, the answer was lots and lots of fun.  The Jaguar Racing star was somewhat overwhelmed after going ”ice skating” on four wheels near Arjeplog in Swedish Lapland. ”I can’t describe it. I can’t put it into words. It’s so unnatural for me to go sideways    I’m usually so focused on trying to go straight. I love it!” he told CNN’s Supercharged show, before heading off at full throttle to do some more laps.  Evans was visiting Jaguar Land Rover’s Ice Academy for the first time, making the   trip from his home in New Zealand.  ”I’ve come from the Kiwi summer    long days, a lot of light, sunshine, warm climate    to northern Sweden in the Arctic Circle . .. and it’s freezing.”     Like his team Panasonic Jaguar Racing, Evans is a newcomer to Formula E this season following four years driving in the GP2 Series.  So far, it’s been a steep learning curve for the historic British racing marque. Evans had to retire from the opening race of the   World Championship in Hong Kong before placing 17th out of 20 starters in Marrakesh last November.  His more experienced teammate, Northern Irishman Adam Carroll, was 12th and 14th. READ: Five things to do in Buenos Aires, READ: Buemi scores   of wins, READ: Formula E drives at urban revolution, READ: Jaguar    From Bond cars to electric racing, The   winter break has done the team some good, it seems. At February’s Buenos Aires ePrix, Evans came home a respectable 13th    four places ahead of    Carroll. The next goal will be to score points with a   finish in round four at the Mexico ePrix on April 1.      Evans even thinks the ice driving could make him a better competitor on the asphalt.  ”I’ve always wanted to do something like this    on ice and snow    to benefit me on track,” he says. ”I hope it translates when we get back for our real racing.”   Visit cnn.  for more news and videos, ”To finally get onto the frozen lake was just amazing, just to see what the car can do with the   drive we had . .. the car just gliding across the surface    it’s such a surreal feeling.”