Welcome to Watching, The New York Times’s    guide. We comb through releases big and small to email readers twice a week with our timely recommendations. You can browse previous guides here, and to receive recommendations straight to your inbox, sign up here. Stay tuned for our upcoming website. Emmy nominations came out yesterday. You can read our full report here as well as our look at the surprises and snubs. I’ll offer my usual caveats that awards don’t measure anything other than an ability to win awards. But still  —   that’s a fun ability to measure at least sometimes, isn’t it? This weekend, I’ll be waiting for everyone to binge all of Netflix’s supernatural drama “Stranger Things” so I can talk about it excitedly. As always, if you’d like to share your thoughts with me and Team Watching, we’re at watching@nytimes. com. Stay cool out there. “Vice Principals,” Sunday, 10:30, HBO Watch if you miss “Eastbound  Down,” or like creative cursing and shows with a dark streak. If you like Danny McBride’s signature       characters, “Vice Principals” is your jam. The show stars McBride and Walton Goggins (from “Justified” and “The Shield”) as rival vice principals who are deeply aggrieved when neither is promoted to principal. The show can be   silly, but there’s a through line of genuine meanness that’s not for everyone. “Black Mirror” (Netflix) Watch if you like the scariest episodes of “The Twilight Zone. ” Warning: This is not a show you should binge. But if   global affairs have you feeling not great, and all the Pokémon Go madness has you feeling a tiny bit conflicted about the role of technology in our society, go ahead and drive into that skid with the anthology series “Black Mirror. ” Every episode (there are only seven so far) is a   story, so there’s no need to watch them in order, and each episode has something intriguing to offer, so you can’t go too wrong. Season 1’s “National Anthem,” is the most overtly critical of power (it’s about the British prime minister being put in an impossibly vile position) Season 2’s “White Bear” is the most outright disturbing and “The Waldo Moment” is the most pessimistic about the populace at large. One of those should suffice. “RuPaul’s Drag Race” (Hulu) Watch if you like reality contest shows. The eighth and most recent season of the show that’s “Project Runway” for drag queens is now streaming on Hulu. If you’ve never watched the show, I encourage you to check out at least one season before jumping in here, since there’s a lot of history baked into the show. (Season 4, also streaming, is a good place to start.) “Drag Race” outshines other similarly constructed shows with its   confessionals: Grandiose insults are part of drag culture, so contestants have far better quips than the people on, oh, “America’s Next Top Model” or “Top Chef. ” Are you looking for your next great TV love? (Or your next great show divorce?) Watching is here to help. Send in a question to watching@nytimes. com. I have lots of    chores and would like some TV options to keep me company during my attempts to be productive. Preferably something that doesn’t require tons of attention (or wouldn’t be horribly ruined if I miss a little bit of dialogue here and there) but is fun enough to help the time move by quickly. Any advice?  —   Katherine Dear Katherine, I feel you. If I’m home, I’m always watching (or at least listening to) something. Saying these are good    shows is not at all meant as a knock, and of course you would get more out of them with devoted viewing. But perhaps not a ton more. These are organized from least to most   you could do your taxes while watching the shows at the top of this list, but I’d save the ones farther down for   chores. • “My Cat From Hell” (some episodes available on OnDemand) has pretty much the same plot every time: There is a cat (often multiple cats) they complain, scratch and relieve themselves at inopportune times their owners are despondent  —   but usually weirdly complicit in this behavior hero cat whisperer Jackson Galaxy saves the day. It’s also fine for all ages, as long as your kids aren’t freaked out by how weird human beings are. • “The Profit” (Hulu) follows entrepreneur Marcus Lemonis as he goes around to failing small businesses. Much like “Tabatha’s Salon Takeover,” it’s secretly a show about how much debt many people are in, though this has more of a   spirit. I love it, but it’s the kind of show I watch with a lot of   because every important moment gets played at least twice this is a good one to watch if you’ll be in and out of the room. • “America’s Test Kitchen” (Netflix America’s Test Kitchen’s website) is the most educational food show on TV, but unlike the screaming carnival atmosphere of Food Network shows, this is more of a calm PBS oasis. Where to start? It doesn’t matter! Every episode is equally good. • “Drop Dead Diva” (Netflix) has some of the   courtroom scenes and legal strategies any lawyer show has ever had. Its plot, in which a model is reincarnated as a   lawyer, is somehow more believable. It’s an easy, charming, gentle show  —   nothing major, but more endearing than you’d expect. • “Elementary” (Hulu) is one in a line of many iterations of the Sherlock Holmes stories, but this is the one that has Lucy Liu. • “Sleepy Hollow” (Hulu) is just at the cusp of being too engrossing for this kind of task, so save it for something mindless like  . Time travel, American history, ghosts, monsters, but ultimately yes, another   cop show. Season 1 is fantastically fun, but things get way  —   and then way  —   worse after that. But 13 episodes of snappy,    horror fun is better than nothing. ’’ • “East Los High,” complete fourth season, Hulu • “Power” Season 3 premiere, Sunday, 9 p. m. Starz • “Ballers,” Season 2 premiere, Sunday, 10 p. m. HBO Looking for a foreign language drama about the perils of growing up? In the Oscar nominated 2015 Turkish film, “Mustang,” five young orphans earn the scorn of their guardians when they’re caught playing with their male classmates on the beach. With their freedoms restricted, the girls make use of what’s left of their childhood before forced arranged marriages. Although this is a stormy    story, the sisters’ relationships with one another remain strong, and they find a few empathetic women in their family who understand their struggle against a conservative father figure. Director Deniz Gamze Ergüven captures the quiet beauty in the sisters’ playtime, in their routines and in the world around them, even though it is shrinking. With a bittersweet running time of only 97 minutes, it’s just enough subtitled teen angst. (Available on Netflix)  —   Monica Castillo