One officer had just become a father. Another had been a police officer in Baton Rouge, La. for less than a year. A third left behind four children. All three were married. “They are   everyday heroes,” Gov. John Bel Edwards of Louisiana said. Here are brief biographies of the three law enforcement officers who were  shot dead by Gavin Long on Sunday. Corporal Jackson, 32, was a   veteran of the Baton Rouge Police Department. He and his wife had a baby in March. The morning after five police officers were killed in Dallas this month, part of the turmoil that spread in the wake of killings by the police in Louisiana and Minnesota, Corporal Jackson, who was black, typed out his thoughts on Facebook. “I swear to God I love this city but I wonder if this city loves me,” he wrote. “In uniform I get nasty hateful looks and out of uniform some consider me a threat. ” He added: “Please don’t let hate infect your heart. This city MUST and WILL get better. ” Nine days later, Corporal Jackson was dead, just over a month after his 10th anniversary on the Baton Rouge force. He was assigned to the Police Department’s uniform patrol bureau. “When they graduate from the academy, we’re all in our finest gear and our dress uniforms, and they walk across the stage one at a time and they greet me,” Jeff LeDuff, the former police chief in Baton Rouge who hired Corporal Jackson, said in an interview. “Esprit de corps is high,” Mr. LeDuff continued. “I remember he couldn’t hold it. He was so happy to get that commission that he was smiling, and it lit up the stage with that smile on his face. That was the sort of man he was. ” In 2007, Corporal Jackson was among the officers who suffered smoke inhalation while trying to save an infant in an apartment fire. “That man wrote his legacy,” Mr. LeDuff said. “He wrote something his    little boy will have for the rest of his life. He will understand fully what his father was, what he stood for and what he was doing when his life was taken. ” Officer Gerald, 41, served with the Baton Rouge Police Department for less than a year. Like Corporal Jackson, he was assigned to its uniform patrol bureau. He was a veteran of the military who joined the Police Department in October. But even before he became an officer in Baton Rouge, he was keenly aware of the dangers the job posed: At least three times on Facebook, he posted pictures of police badges wrapped in mourning bands. He served in the Marine Corps before he shifted to the Army. The Marine Corps said Monday that Officer Gerald had spent four years as a Marine, leaving in 1998 as a corporal. He was a food service specialist who worked at bases in California and North Carolina. As a Marine, he never deployed to a combat theater. That changed in 2003, less than a year after he enlisted in the Army, when he was sent to Iraq for the first of three tours there. A repairer of Black Hawk helicopters, he held the rank of specialist and was assigned to the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment at Fort Hood, Tex. Not long after the shooting started in Baton Rouge, Officer Gerald’s wife posted a link on Facebook to a local television station’s coverage of the episode. “Everyone please pray! !!” she wrote. “My husband along with others is out there. ” In Officer Gerald’s neighborhood just east of Baton Rouge on Monday, blue star balloons floated above several mailboxes, and a flag flew at   in his yard. A neighbor, Carmen Thomas, said Officer Gerald was generous with smiles and waves when he was out with his daughters. Last Halloween, she recalled, he gave out heaps of candy from the tailgate of his pickup truck. “He was really friendly,” she said. Deputy Garafola, 45, a deputy with the East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff’s Office, was a father of four. The   lawman who died in Baton Rouge on Sunday, Deputy Garafola had worked for the sheriff’s office since April 23, 1992, when he was assigned to the corrections division. About two years later, he moved to the office’s uniform patrol division, and later spent eight years working in the traffic section. He joined the civil division, handling matters such as foreclosures, in 2007. “He takes this seriously, and it shows throughout his dealings with   as well as the public,” the agency said in a newsletter in November, after he was named civil deputy of the month. “He is willing to go beyond the call of duty. He is very professional and diligent. ” Deputy Garafola, the sheriff’s office said, had a “mantra of ‘People First. ’” “Deputy Garafola is very professional and conscientious in performing his duties and in dealing with citizens and attorneys,” the sheriff’s office wrote in 2013. “Deputy Garafola’s enthusiasm and ability to motivate his   has resulted in increased productivity. ” In Denham Springs, La. where Deputy Garafola and his family lived, he and his son would mow their own lawn  —   and then help their neighbors, free of charge. “He never asked for a dime,” said Kailey Young, one of Deputy Garafola’s neighbors. Ms. Young described Deputy Garafola as a “goofy” man who focused on his family when not at work. He would, Ms. Young said, meet his youngest daughter at the bus stop and play in a paddle boat with his children in the pond behind the family’s home. In a Facebook post on Monday, Deputy Garafola’s wife, Tonja Garafola, said, “Our hearts are completely broken and still in disbelief of it all. ” In a tribute to her husband, Ms. Garafola wrote: “Brad I love you so much and I don’t know how to do this without you, you’re my best friend, my rock and my hero! !!” Three people were wounded in the shooting, including two deputies in the sheriff’s office. Sheriff Sid J. Gautreaux III said one deputy, Nicholas Tullier, remained in critical condition on Monday. Deputy Tullier, 41, has worked for the sheriff in East Baton Rouge Parish for 18 years and is part of the uniform patrol traffic division. Bruce Simmons, 51, is assigned to the same division. A   veteran of the sheriff’s office, he was wounded, but his injuries were not   the authorities said. A Baton Rouge police officer was also wounded. He has not been identified, but the city’s police chief, Carl Dabadie Jr. said the officer was 41 years old and had worked for the department for nine years. His injuries are not   the chief said.