 (CNN) Argentina felt the loss of the suspended Lionel Messi as they were beaten   by Bolivia in La Paz in a key World Cup qualifying game. Barcelona star Messi was hit with a   ban by football’s governing body FIFA and fined $10, 000 just hours before the game after verbally abusing a match official in a win over Chile on March 24. He will also miss upcoming games against Uruguay, Paraguay and Venezuela. Barcelona released a statement Wednesday expressing its ”surprise and indignation” at the FIFA Disciplinary Committee’s decision, branding the length of the ban ”unfair and totally disproportionate.” The Spanish club went on to reiterate its unwavering support for its   record scorer, calling him ”an exemplary player in terms of conduct, both on and off the pitch.”  Messi became animated at the end of Argentina’s victory over Chile    a game settled by the forward’s   penalty    after being flagged for a foul, waving his arms and sending a volley of verbal abuse at the referee’s assistant. READ: The woman ’facelifting’ soccer’s men’s club, READ: African soccer votes for change in shock result, Argentina could be in ’real trouble’ Tuesday’s defeat in La Paz    Juan Arce and Marcelo Martins scored for Bolivia    means the   World Cup winners fall from third to fifth in the   South American qualifying group in the race to qualify for Russia 2018. The top four teams in South American qualifying advance to next summer’s tournament, while the team that finishes fifth goes into a playoff.  Messi won’t return to international duty until Argentina’s final fixture against Ecuador, by which time the damage could already be done. Prior to FIFA’s announcement, football expert Greg Stobart told CNN’s World Sport: ”Argentina are totally dependent on him (Messi.) ”He’s missed quite a few qualifying games through injury    seven matches and they’ve only won one of them. WATCH: Afghan boy meets Messi, WATCH:   scores stunning goal, WATCH: Lionel Messi is . .. Visit cnn.  for more news and videos, ”With Messi in the side, they’ve played six and won five. If he’s suspended for two, three, four games they are in real trouble of failing to qualify.”