CLEVELAND  —   Senator Ted Cruz of Texas did not come here this week to unite Republicans around their presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump. Armed with his usual arsenal of florid oratory,   and blunt force, he came instead to rally them, someday, around Ted Cruz. He failed, at least for the moment. And in the process, he managed to do the unthinkable  —   make Mr. Trump look like a victim. Determined to be more than just another speaker and looking beyond the November election, Mr. Cruz worked with aides for weeks to fashion a speech that they hoped would define him beyond his failed 2016 quest for the White House and advance his image beyond Tea Party upstart to a modern version of his idol, Ronald Reagan. He offered lofty paeans on Wednesday to an America that included gays and atheists and where heroism was displayed not just by service members fighting terrorism on the front lines but also by the forgiving families of those killed last year at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S. C. He spoke to a broader audience of Americans that many have accused Republicans of ignoring. But then he twisted the knife in Mr. Trump’s back, suggesting that the leadership of that America should not fall to the man his party had come to nominate. Mr. Cruz is clearly gambling that Mr. Trump is likely to lose, perhaps embarrassingly, and that when he does Mr. Cruz will emerge as the strongest spokesman for the Republican Party’s core conservative principles. As the only contender to even put a dent in Mr. Trump’s support, and with a fully operational campaign apparatus still in place, he may be the best positioned out of the gate in 2020. But for now, it appears that Mr. Cruz’s raw ambition  —   which fueled his audacious 2012 Senate primary victory over his state’s lieutenant governor, the disastrous government shutdown he led a year later and his subsequent attacks on the Republicans who did not support it  —   has backfired. In the cold light of morning Thursday, Mr. Cruz found himself facing down furious delegates from his own state at a public breakfast, who told him he needed to back Mr. Trump now. “Do it!” one shouted during a blistering      session. “Do it now!” Mr. Cruz resisted in his usual manner, saying he refused to be a “servile puppy dog. ” He put the blame for his disloyalty on Mr. Trump’s repeated attacks on his family during the primaries. Former admirers and his congressional colleagues took to television to criticize him, at times with profane language, the way his Senate colleagues have been doing for years behind closed doors. “Lucifer is back,” cracked the former House speaker, John A. Boehner, who was watching the convention with his wife and friends, according to an aide. “He really betrayed what our mission is here, which is to win in November,” said Nicholas A. Langworthy, a delegate from New York and chairman of the Erie County party, who helped lead the chorus of boos that followed Mr. Cruz off the stage. “He should just go back to Texas,” Mr. Langworthy said. “He slit his own throat. He is finished in national Republican politics. ” Representative Charlie Dent, a Pennsylvania Republican who has himself been critical of Mr. Trump, had harsh words for Mr. Cruz after his Wednesday remarks. “Senator’s Cruz’s opposition is not based in principle but entirely personal, which is interesting given his sniveling, obsequious and fawning defense of Trump early in the primary campaign,” Mr. Dent said. “I suspect many Americans learned a lot about Ted Cruz last night and now better understand why so many in Congress harbor bitter feelings toward the junior senator from Texas. ” Hours before Mr. Cruz’s highly anticipated speech on Wednesday evening, his former campaign manager, Jeff Roe, received a call from Jason Miller, a former Cruz aide now advising Mr. Trump. Mr. Miller informed the Cruz team that “Mr. Trump would really appreciate” and “would remember it” if Mr. Cruz endorsed him in the speech, Mr. Roe said. “I hear you,” Mr. Roe told him. When the speech was sent out a short while later, nothing had changed: There was still no endorsement. As Mr. Cruz prepared to address supporters at an outdoor bar that afternoon, Mr. Roe suggested that the Trump campaign would have little to object to. “I think they’ll be pleased with the speech,” he told reporters, interrupting his news conference briefly when a call from Paul Manafort, the Trump campaign chairman, came in. Mr. Roe was asked if Mr. Cruz’s speech would focus more on himself than on Mr. Trump. “  is not really his shtick,” Mr. Roe said to the reporters. Mr. Trump’s aides were provided with a copy of Mr. Cruz’s remarks two hours before he gave them, both sides said, and were then outraged to see that not only would Mr. Cruz not endorse Mr. Trump, but that he would suggest pointedly that Republicans should feel no obligation to vote for Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump and his aides briefly considered bumping Mr. Cruz from the lineup, but quickly concluded that that would bring more controversy to a convention that had been battered enough. Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump expected the speech to generate an angry reaction, but both sides were unprepared for its intensity. As Mr. Trump’s children looked on in silence, Mr. Cruz read from a teleprompter, at first in lofty phrases that referred to the civil rights movement, the killing of police officers in recent weeks and one victim of a police shooting. He spoke of the inherent constitutional rights of all Americans, including gays and atheists. But when Mr. Cruz used the code phrase “vote your conscience”  —   which in congressional terms means go against your leaders  —   he was met with boisterous boos and hisses from the crowd, led by the New York delegation a few feet away. One delegate said that some people on the floor were reduced to tears because of their disappointment and fury. Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, sat watching the speeches from a skybox in the arena, realizing that prime time America was now watching an “Apprentice” style version of what he and his Republican colleagues had suffered through on the Senate floor, where Mr. Cruz once called him a liar. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan was backstage with Mike Pence, the governor of Indiana, whom he would soon introduce as the Republican nominee for vice president, whose appropriate but mild remarks would be completely overshadowed by Mr. Cruz’s spectacle. As Mr. Cruz slunk from the stage and Mr. Trump’s son Eric took the lectern, Mr. Trump’s aides sought out Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, who was slated to speak after Mr. Trump’s son. “I don’t think they realized how strong the reaction was going to be,” Mr. Gingrich said. “They came to me and said: ‘We need to get closure here. Let’s talk it through.’ ” They decided Mr. Gingrich would rebut Mr. Cruz by directly praising Mr. Trump. “I sat down with the senior editor of the teleprompter while Eric was speaking, and over those 12 minutes they were able to reload my remarks,” Mr. Gingrich said. Mr. Cruz tried to repair to the luxury convention suite of the Las Vegas casino magnate and Republican donor Sheldon Adelson, but he was turned away like a freshman tossed out of a senior keg party. Andy Abboud, a top aide to Mr. Adelson, told Mr. Cruz he was not welcome there, according to two people in the suite who witnessed the exchange. “Nobody’s ever done in America,” Mr. Gingrich said. (He should know.) Mr. Cruz clearly agrees. After his dismissal from Mr. Adelson’s event, Mr. Cruz found a friendlier face. He went directly to the Ritz a few blocks away for drinks with Andrew F. Puzder, the   chief executive of Hardee’s and Carl’s Jr. and a major Republican donor who raised cash for Mr. Cruz’s campaign. Before long, Mr. Roe said, Mr. Cruz retired to his hotel room, keeping a lingering eye on his Twitter feed. After 1 a. m. a   email for his Senate campaign flooded email inboxes. Subject line: “Our fight goes on. ”