 (CNN) The death toll from a bomb attack targeting evacuees leaving besieged Syrian towns has risen to 126, a monitoring group said Sunday.  The blast hit a convoy of buses Saturday, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which reported the higher death toll.  The blast struck buses of people leaving their towns as part of a   swap.  At least 109 of those killed were evacuees from the   Shia villages of  ’ah and Kafraya while the rest were aid workers and rebels guarding the convoy, according to the Syrian Observatory. At least 68 children were among those killed in the attack on Saturday. In addition to the deaths, it also injured 55 others in Rashidin, a suburb of Aleppo, according to Syria Civil Defense, also known as  the White Helmets, The convoy of buses, which were parked at the time, was carrying thousands of people from two   but   villages in northwestern Syria,   media reported.  People were evacuating two   towns in southwest Syria at the same time under a   Four Towns Agreement. Video shown on  state television showed charred buses parked on the side of a road. People walked outside the buses, surveying the damage as well as bodies lying on the roadway and a grass median. The evacuees were bound for   parts of Aleppo.  The   Syrian Arab News Agency reported the convoy continued, and the first buses arrived late Saturday in Aleppo. The buses headed to the Jebrin area for a temporary housing center equipped with food and medical supplies, SANA said.  No group has claimed responsibility. During a televised interview, Rami Abdul Rahman, director of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said a suicide bomber claimed he was carrying food items and blew himself up in a fuel station.  Abdul Rahman said he doesn’t believe the Syrian regime is behind the attack. He said the regime kills scores of people daily using all types of weaponry and doesn’t need to kill its own sympathizers.   The evacuees had been allowed to leave their villages this week as part of a   exchange agreement between Syria and insurgents who have been fighting a civil war for six years.  As part of the deal, government forces are allowing thousands of rebels and civilians to leave two towns in southwest Syria: Madaya and Zabadani, according to the   Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Madaya and Zabadani have been under the control of   fighters but facing siege from forces loyal to the regime.  The rebel group Ahrar   tweeted that some of its members died in the blast. They were at the site to ensure the convoy’s passage, Ahrar   said. The group said it was investigating to find out who was responsible.   media: Rigged car was disguised  The explosion happened as both sets of evacuees were stopped in separate locations outside Aleppo. Each were heading to areas controlled by forces friendly to them. The   car had been packed with children’s food supplies, perhaps to disguise it, a correspondent with SANA reported. The convoy that departed  ’ah and Kafriya had 5, 000 people, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said. Thousands were leaving Madaya and Zabadani, including more than 2, 000 rebel fighters, their families and other civilians, the monitoring group said. The deal was brokered by Iran and Qatar, Agence   reported.  Bombing condemned, A statement from the spokesperson for the U. N.   said: ”The evacuations were being conducted in accordance with the agreement reached pursuant to the Four Towns agreement. . .. ”We call on the parties to ensure the safety and security of those waiting to be evacuated. Those responsible for today’s attack must be brought to justice.” The Syrian American Medical Society said in a statement: ”This forced displacement is a clear violation of international humanitarian law, and marks yet another sad chapter in the history of this crisis. The absence of the UN and international community from this process has left the civilian populations especially vulnerable, leading to horrific events such as what took place today.  ”The UN must not abandon its role in protecting innocent civilians and enforcing international humanitarian laws.”