Bridgewater Associates, the world’s largest hedge fund, released a statement on Thursday taking issue with what it called “significant mischaracterizations” and a “distortion” of some of its business practices and culture that were described in an article in The New York Times. Ray Dalio, the founder and chairman of Bridgewater, said in a statement that the article “intentionally strung together a series of misleading ‘facts’” in order to “create the most sensationalistic story. ” The Times article reported on the culture at Bridgewater as detailed in a sexual harassment complaint and a National Labor Relations Board filing, as well as in interviews with seven former employees or people who have done work for the firm. The article described how the firm’s policy of recording meetings and surveillance had a chilling effect on employees bringing grievances or complaints, according to those people. In the complaint, filed in January with a Connecticut state agency, the employee, Christopher Tarui, outlined the impact that the policy of recording all meetings had on his coming forward. Mr. Tarui said he delayed reporting a series of instances of sexual harassment by his male supervisor out of fear the matter would not be handled privately within the firm, which is based in Westport, Conn. In his complaint, Mr. Tarui said he had no option to air his grievances privately and that his meetings with senior executives over the matter were “widely shared” with other managerial employees. He called Bridgewater a “cauldron of fear and intimidation. ” In Bridgewater’s statement, Mr. Dalio countered that claim, saying that it was “exactly the opposite” and that employees were “encouraged to bring problems to the surface in whatever ways they deem to be most appropriate. ” Mr. Dalio said in the statement that the firm recorded meetings with employees to allow them to “hear virtually all discussions” and to foster a “real idea of meritocracy. ” He added: “We also believe that bad things happen behind closed doors so that such transparency is healthy. ” Bridgewater, which has nearly 1, 500 employees, said that it had “clearly defined channels for reporting private matters that have been utilized by many employees over the years. ” Specifically, Mr. Dalio said, the firm had an “anonymous ‘complaint line. ’” On Tuesday, Bridgewater was asked by Times reporters to respond to questions about the complaint, the National Labor Relations Board filing and details about the firm’s culture and practices, including questions about the use of cellphones. In response, Bridgewater sent an emailed statement to The Times for publication, saying: “While it is difficult for our management team to independently judge the merits of this claim, we are confident our handling of this claim is consistent with our stated principles and the law. We look forward to operating through a legal process that brings the truth to light. ” The complaint filed with the Connecticut Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities was withdrawn in March at the request of both Mr. Tarui and Bridgewater. The firm has a policy that requires employees to go through a binding arbitration process. The National Labor Relations Board has filed a separate complaint against Bridgewater, saying that the company “has been interfering with, restraining and coercing” Mr. Tarui and other employees from exercising their rights through confidentiality agreements that all employees are required to sign. The Times article noted that in some Bridgewater units, “employees are required to lock up their personal cellphones each morning when they arrive at work. ” Mr. Dalio said that was “wrong,” while also acknowledging that employees cannot carry phones on the firm’s trading floor, “where cellphones are prohibited. ” The statement also took issue with the article’s description of the hedge fund’s mixed performance that lost billions of dollars for investors in the last two years. Of Bridgewater’s two main portfolios, the Pure Alpha fund has lost 8. 8 percent, while its All Weather fund has gained 10. 4 percent through June. But last year, those performances were reversed: The All Weather fund lost investors 6. 9 percent, while Pure Alpha gained 4. 7 percent. In the statement on Thursday, Bridgewater cited 2015 performance figures from the Pure Alpha fund as evidence that investors had not lost billions of dollars. “This year,    we have made $1. 3 billion for our clients across our strategies,” Mr. Dalio’s statement said. Bridgewater manages $154 billion for pension funds and other institutional investors like sovereign wealth funds. The statement said Bridgewater could not comment on Mr. Tarui’s claims or the complaint, adding that it was going through a legal process. But it said, “like many organizations, we encounter frivolous claims made in an effort to extract financial gain. ” Douglas Wigdor, a lawyer for Mr. Tarui, said, “Consistent with our firm’s reputation, we thoroughly investigate and carefully vet each of our clients before taking on a new matter and aggressively prosecute those cases so as to vindicate the rights of our clients. ” Mr. Dalio concluded by saying that Bridgewater looked forward to “being judged by our employees, our clients, and the legal and regulatory parties who are responsible for overseeing our behaviors, rather than by the media. ”