When Donald J. Trump made provocative remarks on Wednesday about Russian intelligence services and Hillary Clinton’s email, readers of The New York Times responded with a record number of comments. More than 9, 220 comments on the article were approved by moderators, who review nearly every one before they are published on The Times’s digital platforms. Thousands more comments were posted on The Times’s Facebook page. The article became the   on in The Times’s history. At his news conference, Mr. Trump said he hoped Russian intelligence services had hacked Mrs. Clinton’s email, and encouraged them to publish whatever they might have stolen, essentially urging them to commit cyberespionage. Here are excerpts from the comments, some of which have been lightly edited for clarity. Some readers said Mr. Trump’s comments showed he lacked   and signaled that he could not be trusted to keep the nation’s secrets safe. “Trump doesn’t seem to have a grasp on what comes out of his mouth. In his attempts to look strong, and always be talking over others, he seems to be totally unable to control his outbursts and totally ridiculous statements. ”  —   Julius in New York. “The man’s lack of impulse control regarding what comes out of his mouth is the most worrisome aspect of his potential presidency. Regardless of what you believe about Hillary, is this the spokesperson in chief you want for our nation?”  —   GMS in Chicago. “Just imagine, for even a brief second, what he might say when he is president. Who he might talk to on the ‘red phone.’ Remember, when he talks he says what HE thinks is right, not what the world believes. ”  —   D. C. Researcher in Washington. Some readers said Mr. Trump was committing an act of patriotism by seeking to expose Mrs. Clinton’s email and were skeptical that he intended harm with his remarks. “I hate to say it, but if it was Russia, thank goodness that someone had the urge to expose another crooked and rigged system. If you will recall, Trump has said all along that the DNC and Clinton rigged the primaries   …     and he was right. ”  —   Florida Len in Florida. “If you listen to the whole quote it was obviously   cheek, not   . He was making a joke about Hillary deleting all of those emails. ”  —   Gary Taustine in New York. “I was astounded when commentators took Trump’s statement at literal face value. Let’s hope no one ever tells one of these people to go jump off a bridge. ”  —   Jim in New York. “Maybe the American people deserve to see them. She had them open for the [taking]. ”  —   Gary James Richards of Oak Ridge, N. J. on The Times’s Facebook page. Several commenters accused Mr. Trump of sedition or treason and demanded that he be punished.  “That Donald Trump would encourage a tyrant like Vladimir Putin and his surrogates to meddle in our affairs is treason of the highest order. The fact that he would encourage our adversary for his own political gain shows he would stop at nothing to get what he wants. He doesn’t care about anyone or anything other than himself. I wouldn’t ever count on a turncoat traitor like Donald Trump to have my back under any circumstances. ”  —   JG in Old North Bridge, Mass. “To call on a foreign government to engage in espionage against your political opponent that is a former member of the government is sedition and the stuff of banana republics. ”  —   Erik in Boise, Idaho. Some readers suggested Mr. Trump was angling for the spotlight during  the Democratic National Convention.  “Trump just can’t stomach the fact that he is not front and center in the media this week, so he has to come up with something to divert the media’s attention to him. Pitiful excuse for a human, let alone a presidential candidate. ”  —   Lib in Utah. “This is just Trump’s latest stunt to take the news cycle away from the D. N. C. Stop wasting time parsing the meaning of this nonsense!”  —   Doctor Jay in New York. Some readers compared Mrs. Clinton’s  fitness to lead the country in the wake of her  email scandal with Mr. Trump’s  request for Russia to produce the emails. Other readers said that equivalence was false.  “If President Trump saw his approval ratings fall, he might well conspire with Putin to do something nefarious to raise his ratings, even if it meant selling the secrets or the principles of his country. Yes, Hillary is sometimes not completely trustworthy, but Trump has taken untrustworthiness to a new level. ”  —   John in Chevy Chase. Md. “The chief complaint about Hillary Clinton is that she seems inauthentic because she is overly cautious and measures her responses. Well, here’s a perfect example of the opposite of that. Is this who we want in charge? This should be taken very seriously. ”  —   MDNewell in Midlothian, Va.