RALEIGH, N. C.  —   In the feverishly manicured spectacle that is electoral politics, there are few distractions quite as imposing to candidates as a small child. Just this week, Donald J. Trump earned a wave of negative headlines after he confronted a crying baby at a rally in Virginia. Mike Pence learned that lesson the hard  —   and perhaps revealing  —   way at a rally here on Thursday morning when he solicited a question from an    boy, Matthew Schricker. “I’ve been watching the news lately, and I’ve been noticing that you’ve been kind of softening up on Mr. Trump’s policies and words,” Matthew said skeptically. “Is this going to be your role in the administration?” Mr. Pence stood   for a moment before offering an uneasy chuckle. “What did you say I’ve been doing?” Mr. Pence asked over laughter from the crowd. “You’ve been kind of softening up on his words,” Matthew steadfastly replied. Many political analysts far Matthew’s senior have been pondering the same thought. In the past week and a half, Mr. Pence has taken divergent stances from (or cleaned up after) his running mate on a series of issues, including the possibility of Russia’s hacking Hillary Clinton’s email, the treatment of the Khan family and the candidacy of Speaker Paul D. Ryan. Mr. Pence tried to regain his footing by complimenting his interlocutor. “No. 1, this boy has a future,” Mr. Pence pronounced. “Nicely done. ” After predicting that Matthew would one day be governor of North Carolina, Mr. Pence tried to fill the gaps between some of his positions and those of his more bombastic running mate by attributing their differences to manner rather than matter. “Sometimes things don’t always come out like you mean, right?” Mr. Pence said. “And Donald Trump and I are absolutely determined to work together and we have different styles, you might have noticed that. ” Then Mr. Pence added, in a typical stroke of   that has become a necessary weapon in his campaign arsenal, “You know, I said at our convention, I said we’d nominated someone who is larger than life, known for charisma, so they wanted to kind of balance the ticket. ” Mr. Pence said he wanted to make one thing clear to his young skeptic. “Differences in style, Matthew, should never be confused with differences in conviction,” he said. “And I will tell you right now Donald Trump has the right vision for America, he has the right policies for America and I’m going to fight every day to tell his story all across the United States. ” Matthew seemed persuaded. “I was a little worried about him, and I just wanted to make sure he was totally loyal to Mr. Trump and the Republican Party,” Matthew said after the event had ended. “And now I think he is. ” At future gatherings, Mr. Pence may wish to pick on someone his own size.