In assuming the leadership of Fox News last month, Rupert Murdoch pledged a fresh start at a network reeling from accusations that its longtime chairman, Roger Ailes, had overseen a culture of harassment and intimidation. But on Friday, Mr. Murdoch made clear that  —   for now at least  —   Fox’s new era will be led by its old guard. Two veteran executives with deep ties to Mr. Ailes were named   of Fox News, the network announced, a nod toward corporate stability that was also taken as a sign that Mr. Murdoch was not yet prepared to fully overhaul management at one of his most profitable franchises. Bill Shine, an affable Ailes loyalist who is well liked by some of the network’s   anchors, like Sean Hannity, will oversee programming at Fox News and Fox Business Network. Jack Abernethy, a trusted Murdoch hand who runs Fox’s television station group, was placed in charge of business operations, including finance and advertising sales. The appointments are Mr. Murdoch’s first major personnel moves at the network since the ouster of Mr. Ailes, whose   tenure was upturned by sexual harassment allegations by a former anchor, Gretchen Carlson. And it suggested that Mr. Murdoch and his sons, James and Lachlan, are now focused on calming an unsettled newsroom, even as more women come forward with troubling stories about the network’s culture under Mr. Ailes. “Anybody who expected seismic changes was wrong,” said Andrew Heyward, a former president of CBS News. “This sends a strong signal to a jittery, shaken staff that Fox News plans to stay the course. ” Mr. Murdoch, 85, who named himself executive chairman of Fox News on Friday, is expected to take a   role there at least through the presidential election in November. Since becoming acting chief executive in July, Mr. Murdoch has been a constant presence in the Manhattan newsroom, piping up at news meetings and greeting employees in the hall. He recently moved into Mr. Ailes’s corner office on the second floor. Still, the fallout from the scandal is not over: An investigation by the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton  Garrison into other allegations against Mr. Ailes is continuing. The inquiry has expanded into whether other executives knew of any improper behavior and failed to act on it. On Friday, Fox also announced that its longtime chief financial officer, Mark Kranz, would retire. His departure was linked to his oversight of the network’s finances during a period when financial settlements were made with women who had complained of harassment, according to two people who requested anonymity to describe internal matters. Fox News is a significant source of profit for its parent company, 21st Century Fox, and the Murdochs would prefer smooth operations at the cable channel during a tumultuous election season that has resulted in record ratings. The elder Mr. Murdoch has said he is committed to maintaining Fox’s “distinctive, powerful” voice, curbing the predictions of those who thought that the   views of Fox’s opinion anchors might soften in the absence of Mr. Ailes. Mr. Shine, 53, has been with Fox since shortly after the channel debuted in 1996. He is a favored figure among some veteran anchors, including Mr. Hannity, who first recommended him to Mr. Ailes for a job. A Long Island native, Mr. Shine cut his teeth at the network producing Mr. Hannity’s program and working closely with personalities like Bill O’Reilly. His appointment was widely viewed as a sign of stability at a chaotic time, particularly with newsroom gossip focused on whether   anchors could leave in the wake of Mr. Ailes’s departure. Since Ms. Carlson went public with her allegations on July 6, a schism has developed within Fox News between Fox News loyalists  —   some of whom owe their careers to Mr. Ailes  —   upset at his ouster and others who either did not come forward or were dismayed by those who were defending Mr. Ailes before the investigation was complete. “I could not be happier with the new management team at Fox News Channel,” the anchor Greta Van Susteren, who also worked closely with Mr. Shine, wrote on Twitter on Friday. “Each is well liked and well respected Thank you Rupert!” Still, Mr. Shine was considered one of Mr. Ailes’s most loyal lieutenants. And his name, along with those of other executives, surfaced in recent accounts by two women who came forward to describe difficult experiences at Fox News. Andrea Tantaros, a daytime host, told The New York Times that when she complained to Mr. Shine about being harassed by Mr. Ailes, he told her, “Don’t fight this. ” Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Shine said that Ms. Tantaros never complained to him about Mr. Ailes harassing her. Laurie Luhn, a former Fox booker, told New York magazine that Mr. Ailes enlisted aides, including Mr. Shine, to recommend doctors and make travel arrangements for her while she was involved in a relationship with Mr. Ailes. Mr. Shine has told associates that he did not know that Mr. Ailes was in a relationship with Ms. Luhn. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Murdoch wrote: “Bill Shine has developed and produced a signature prime time that has dominated the cable news landscape for 14 of his 20 years with Fox News. His leadership and keen eye for programming has played a fundamental role in the success of both Fox News and Fox Business Network. ” Of Mr. Abernethy, who is 60, Mr. Murdoch wrote that his appointment “will ensure continued growth of Fox News and Fox Business Network for generations to come. ” Fox News also announced that Suzanne Scott had been named executive vice president of programming and would oversee the network’s daytime and   opinion shows. Jay Wallace will remain in charge of the news division. Ms. Scott and Mr. Wallace will report to Mr. Shine. Dianne Brandi, the general counsel, is expected to stay on as well.