 (CNN) In a city rocked by a night of terror, Dallas responded with an outpouring of support for its police forces after the loss of five officers.  The Dallas Police Department headquarters was swarmed with flags, candles, flowers, balloons and messages of support.  Two squad cars, one from the Dallas Police Department and the other from the Dallas Area Rapid Transit authority, were set up as a memorial for the fallen officers. The cars were nearly covered in bouquets and signs.  Local businesses sent meals and food to feed the officers who had worked throughout the night. Residents even gathered outside the police headquarters to sing together for peace.  Dallas residents packed a Friday interfaith service attended by city leaders and religious leaders to pray for healing.  After the prayer service, resident got into an orderly line to thank the police officers.  ”God bless,” the residents told the police officers as they hugged them.  Strangers embraced one another. They were young and old. They were black, white and shades between. Residents patted the officers on the back, shook their hands and comforted them.  ”I’m sorry for your loss,” one woman told a officer. ”It’s a loss for all of us.”  Texas lights up in blue, The Reunion Tower, which is part of the Dallas skyline, lit up blue Friday night to symbolize solidarity with police. It tweeted: ”We can go dim, or we can shine. I choose the light.” Similarly, the Texas Governor’s Mansion turned blue to honor the officers killed in Dallas.  Various police departments receive gestures of gratitude, Police departments throughout the country received messages of support and gestures of kindness. Some received unexpected catered meals, pizza delivery, flowers, handwritten letters from children and desserts.   The police department in O’Fallon, Illinois, found several yard signs in front of its office reading: ”Thank you to police officers and all who put their lives in danger everyday to protect us.”  The O’Fallon Police Department posted: ”You have no idea how much this means to us. We will not let you down.” Other police departments also shared social media images highlighting the support they received from their communities. 