 (CNN) Bernie Sanders sought to show a united front at the Democratic National Convention Tuesday by asking delegates to accept Hillary Clinton’s nomination unanimously and by acclimation. The plan came at the end of the roll call vote of all 50 states. ”I move that Hillary Clinton be selected as the nominee of the Democratic party for President of the United States,” Sanders told the convention.  The move came as Sanders has attempted to tamp down his rowdy supporters, at times getting booed by his own backers as he called for Democratic unity. It follows Sanders’ speech to the DNC on Monday, where he empathized with the disappointment of his supporters but said they must support Clinton in the fall. Vice President Joe Biden, who was doing a walkthrough of the Wells Fargo Arena Tuesday morning, said that Democrats need to ”show a little class” to Sanders supporters who are still stinging from his loss. ”We have to show a little class and let them be frustrated for a while,” Biden told CNN. ”It’s OK.” Some of his supporters have struggled with that message, interrupting some convention speakers and delegate breakfasts. Sanders, who was booed during a California delegation breakfast Tuesday, is encouraging his backers to think of what a Trump presidency would look like.  ”It is easy to boo, but it is harder to look your kids in the face if we are living under a Trump presidency,” Sanders responded.  RELATED: Silverman: ’Ridiculous’ remark was unscripted, But Sanders’ own delegates were as angry as ever Tuesday morning, just hours after he implored them to support Clinton in his   speech. Sanders delegates in California booed down speakers, including Clinton supporter Rep. Xavier Becerra. At one point in Becerra’s brief talk, some delegates hopped on tables with Sanders signs, while other delegates pounded loudly on the tables in unison. As of early Tuesday morning, it did not look like even Sanders would be able to sway his supporters. ”Believe it or not we are not all blind followers of Bernie. We love Bernie and everything he represents, but all because he tells us to do something doesn’t mean we will,” said Kari Garcia, a    Sanders supporter who went to the convention with the California delegation. Garcia and others at her table, including Sanders delegate Brian Carolus, were loudly booing and chanting ”Bernie!” throughout the California breakfast. Carolus, a    delegate from California, said calls for them to get behind Clinton or face a Trump presidency amounted to ” .” ”I don’t like that characterization, because it’s blaming the victim. It’s  . We are the victims of their fraud and their corruption and their cheating,” said Carolus, who cited the leaked DNC emails as part of his mistrust of the Democratic Party. Others Sanders supporters, meanwhile, announced Tuesday they were canning their effort to nominate an alternative to Tim Kaine. Norman Solomon,   of the Bernie Delegates Network, told reporters that he had found a VP candidate who would run against Kaine, but would not reveal the candidate’s name because the Democratic Party hid the filing paperwork from them. CLARIFICATION: An earlier story referred imprecisely to the moment Sanders plans to weigh in on Clinton’s nomination. 