Philadelphia (CNN) President Barack Obama, Vice President Joe Biden and former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg delivered a tough criticism of Republican Donald Trump at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia on Wednesday night.  Here’s a look at the night’s most memorable lines from all the speakers: Obama on the election, ”I think it’s fair to say this is not your typical election.” Obama on Clinton, ”I can say with confidence there has never been a man or a woman    not me, not Bill, nobody    more qualified than Hillary Clinton to serve as president of the United States of America.” ”Hillary was tough. I was worn out. She was doing everything I was doing, but like Ginger Rogers, it was backwards in heels.” Obama on Trump, ”He’s just offering slogans, and he’s offering fear. He’s betting that if he scares enough people, he might score just enough votes to win this election. That is another bet that Donald Trump will lose. Because he’s selling the American people short. We are not a fragile or frightful people. Our power doesn’t come from some   savior promising that he alone can restore order. We don’t look to be ruled.” Obama on America, ”America is already great.  America is already strong.  And I promise you, our strength, our greatness, does not depend on Donald Trump.” Obama on immigration, ”She knows their dream is quintessentially American, and the American Dream is something no wall will ever contain.” Vice President Joe Biden, ”How there be pleasure in saying, ’You’re fired’? He’s trying to tell us he cares about the middle class? Give me a break. That’s a bunch of malarkey,” Biden said. ”This guy doesn’t have a clue about the Middle Class. Not a clue.” Michael Bloomberg, ”I built a business, and I didn’t start it with a million dollar check from my father,” said the billionaire former New York City mayor, knocking Donald Trump. ”I’m a New Yorker and I know a con when I see one.” ”Let’s elect a sane, competent person,” he added. Tim Kaine, vice presidential candidate, ”For my friend Hillary Clinton, I humbly accept my party’s nomination to be vice president of the United States,” the Virginia senator said. ”Can I be honest with you about something? I never expected to be here.”  Martin O’Malley, former Maryland governor, ”It’s time to put a bully racist in his place, and a tough woman in hers    the White House,” said the   Clinton primary rival. ”I say to hell with Trump’s American nightmare. We believe in the American Dream.” Connecticut Sen. Chris Murphy, ”Enough of children dying in classrooms. Enough of nightly bloodshed on our city streets. Enough of our police officers being outgunned, ambushed, and cut down in the line of duty. Enough. It’s time to take Washington back from the gun lobby. And I know just how to do it.” Erica Smegielski, ”I don’t want to be here tonight, I should not be here tonight,” said Smegielski, whose mother was killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School. ”I’m here alone without my mother, while too many politicians cower behind the gun lobby.” Felicia Sanders, ”My son’s last words were, ’We mean you no harm.’ Tywanza. My hero. Two days later, I forgave the shooter who murdered him. Hate destroys those who harbor it, and I refused to let hate destroy me,” said Sanders, a survivor of the Mother Emanuel Church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina. Leon Panetta, former CIA director, ”Donald Trump says he gets his foreign policy experience from watching TV and running the Miss Universe Pageant. If only it were funny. It is deadly serious,” he said. ”Today, Donald Trump once again took Russia’s side. He asked the Russians to interfere in American politics. Think about that for a moment. Donald Trump is asking one of our adversaries to engage in hacking or intelligence efforts against the United States to affect our election.” Retired Navy Adm. John Hutson, ”This morning, this very morning, (Trump) invited Russia to hack us. That’s not law and order, that’s criminal intent,” he said, adding, ”Donald, you’re not fit to polish John McCain’s boots.”