In Milwaukee, I lived two lives. On the East Side was the liberal Catholic school I attended for nine years on the North Side was everything else. The North Side is where I grew up, more specifically, in the 53206 ZIP code, where 62 percent of adult males have spent time behind bars, among the highest rates in the nation. It’s not too far from the area you might have seen last weekend, with cars burning and police officers in riot gear. I was not surprised by the unrest that followed the death of a    man who was shot by a black officer as he fled on foot a few miles from where I used to live. I can’t imagine that anyone in the area was, so long have we watched this darkness form. Like many others, I saw it coming. When I read about Ferguson and the racial divides in St. Louis County, Mo. I could only think of my hometown and my neighborhood, wondering when I’d see my house as a backdrop for YouTube footage of soldiers securing an American city. I heard the cries of anguished youth in Baltimore and wondered, in a dark moment, how they could dare to complain because we in Milwaukee had it worse. On the North Side that shaped me, there was a resentment, a reflexive skepticism that it took me awhile to understand as a son of Nigerian immigrants. But with experience, I got it. The only white people I saw in my neighborhood staffed the library. Parents tried to teach their children, in the most visceral ways they could imagine, to stay out of trouble. That’s the main objective of parenting in Milwaukee’s poorest ZIP code, in a city where the heart of the black middle class was paved over to build Interstate 94. The idea of working hard to get ahead within the system was seen as a fool’s game there, laughable. These days, scrolling the Facebook pages of people who live in Wisconsin’s suburbs, you will inevitably find some variant of this question: Why don’t they do more to better themselves? Many of the people asking are too young or lacking in curiosity to know the answer: The state, through a variety of racist policies  —   some of which John Eligon and Robert Gebeloff explore in their story about segregation in Milwaukee  —   trained a group of humans to believe that their very presence was resented, and that even if they built better lives for themselves, it might be paved over so that people from the suburbs could drive downtown. Like most people, many black parents on the North Side passed these feelings to their children. The narrative was different on the East Side. There I saw a practiced obliviousness among parents and children that I also did not fully understand. There we hoped to be doctors and lawyers, or in my case, a journalist. On many days, I felt as if I were being shuttled between two different cities, two different worlds. The cloistered shell of liberalism to the east and the infectious anger of the streets to the north never intersected, never touched. In the East, the future was expected. It was a birthright, a source of frenetic energy. In the North, reckoning was expected. It was inevitable, a source of pride and loathing. No matter your defenses, it would surely come, and punish the hopes that lie outside your black body. Memories of my East Side life are soft, a flood of inconsequential smiles and vague encouragements offered by people living protected lives. I attended school with kids too young to hear about what I had already experienced. Memories of my North Side life are sharp, like the screwdriver in my back when I wouldn’t let a boy “borrow” my bike. Like my mother’s words after the thief’s father pretended to call for him, then slammed the door because his son couldn’t be bothered. My North Side memories are also hot, like the summer, when the balance of power tilts irrevocably toward the ones who spend the most time in the streets, with the largest alliances. When those boys became men, they’d become crews. They’d have   with the ones a few blocks over, and someone might die for the pride that began here. Life on the North Side was what mattered TODAY. It was my brother and I walking down the middle of a vacant street with baseball bats, looking for the one who beat up our little brother because he won a basketball game, and that was important TODAY. It was preteen girls begging teenage boys to come through the side door of some garage, because those teenagers were so buff, and they could finally have him, and he could take them, because that’s what mattered TODAY. It was when the police were called and your friend, who had a robber’s gun in his mouth, had his complaint dismissed because he was probably a drug dealer, and then you sat at the door holding knives all night to protect his family. It’s when the police tore apart an entire car in a search, because the passengers were dancing, leaving you on the curb, as cars drove by and people gawked  —   one more piece of your pride TODAY. My parents came from Nigeria to Milwaukee in 1985. They saw a land of opportunity. They had gone to college in Nigeria. Their families had always been allowed to pursue their dreams. Their hard work had always paid off. And mine did, too. I’m 29 years old. I am an editor for The New York Times. Does that make me more or less of a credible voice? In this national discussion about how we equalize opportunity in this   Crow era, in all of the ways that matter right now, am I even black? Or are these questions just survivor’s guilt? Maybe it’s just pitiful angst that has no answer and doesn’t need any. Or maybe the angst can lead to answers. Before I started writing this essay, I spoke to Mandela Barnes, a state legislator who represents a district in Northwest Milwaukee, about the city and the violence. I imagined a teenager on the North Side, politically active, moderate in many ways, dedicated to helping our people. Someone maybe like me, trying to figure out how to do something that would address all the injustice. Considering the minimal loss of life from the week’s unrest, and the relatively contained property damage, what do you say to a kid who says “this worked, attention is now being paid to our situation, and my friends in other cities should do the same thing?” I asked him: How can you convince that teenager to take a different path when his or her friends are riding a pipeline to prison? “As frustrating as things can be, you never want to destroy your own,” Mr. Barnes said. “Literally burning up your own home is not the route. There are other ways to make your voice heard. ” Honestly, I have my doubts. They are new, and I am nearly consumed by them. Maybe that’s just the North Side of me. Or maybe that’s just me.