In the packed apartment complex in Queens, the woman saw Shamdai Arjun, whose family shares a   apartment with hers, leaving on Friday evening. Ms. Arjun took her two young grandchildren with her and rode off with a man in a white car. Ms. Arjun’s    stepdaughter, though, stayed behind. Ms. Arjun told the woman that the girl was washing her hair, according to a criminal complaint. But the light in the bathroom had been on for hours, and the door was locked, the woman, whose name was not disclosed, told investigators. She knocked on the door, and there was no answer. She called the girl’s father, and he told her to break down the door. Inside, she saw the girl, Ashdeep Kaur, lying in a bathtub with no water in it. She was lifeless and bruised. Emergency workers and the police were called around 6 p. m. to the apartment in Richmond Hill, on 112th Street near 101st Avenue, where Ashdeep was pronounced dead, officials said. On Sunday, Ms. Arjun, 55, was charged with   murder in her death, prosecutors said. Ashdeep died of strangulation, and her death has been ruled a homicide, a spokeswoman for the city medical examiner said. “Her actions, if true, are beyond comprehension and must be severely punished,” Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney, said in a statement. Ms. Arjun appeared in Queens Criminal Court on Sunday, where a judge ordered that she be held without bail. Michael Curtis, an assistant district attorney, said that Ms. Arjun had “the motive, the means and the exclusive opportunity to commit this awful and brutal crime. ” “This defendant repeatedly and on numerous occasions threatened to kill the victim,” he added, “most recently doing so this past Tuesday. On Friday, she made good on that threat. ” Ms. Arjun’s lawyer, Judah Maltz, said his client maintained that she was innocent. “She denied ever hurting the child,” he said. “There’s no confession. No one saw her commit this crime. All they have is circumstantial evidence. ” Ms. Arjun was arrested late Saturday in the South Ozone Park neighborhood at the home of her former husband, Raymond Narayan. He was the one who drove her and their grandchildren, who are 3 and 5, away from her home in Richmond Hill, the authorities said. When investigators arrived at Mr. Narayan’s home, he and Ms. Arjun refused to leave for over an hour, prosecutors said. He finally relented, opening the door, and they were both arrested. Mr. Narayan, 65, has been charged with obstructing governmental administration. Ashdeep had been in the United States for only a few months, neighbors said, leaving her mother and other relatives in India to live with her father and his wife, who is from Guyana. She came to a neighborhood that is filled with immigrants from India, Pakistan and Guyana. She moved into the   apartment, which her family shared with another family, in a crowded complex formed by brick houses that have been stitched together. Neighbors said that the building’s tenants turned over quickly and that many of them, like Ashdeep and her father, were from India. It is in an area of southwest Queens that has been shaken by killings this month, with an imam and his assistant gunned down in Ozone Park and a jogger, Karina Vetrano, found dead in an area of marshland in Howard Beach. And in Richmond Hill, Ashdeep’s neighbors struggled with the young girl’s death. “I see my daughter’s face in hers,” Kiran Kaur said, trembling and crying as she left a nearby gurdwara, or Sikh temple. (She is not related to Ashdeep.) “Every mother can see her kids’ faces in another,” she continued, her    daughter’s arms wrapped around her waist. “I don’t know how her mother feels to know that her daughter is no longer in this world. ”