Lou Pearlman, the music executive who built a pop empire on boy bands like the Backstreet Boys and ’NSync before going to prison for running a Ponzi scheme that stole hundreds of millions of dollars from investors, died on Friday in the Miami area, where he was in federal prison. He was 62. Justin Long, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Prisons, said Mr. Pearlman died of cardiac arrest at a hospital. At his death he was an inmate at the Federal Correctional Institution in Miami. Mr. Pearlman began his career in blimp rentals before turning to the music business. All his interests, from aviation to boy bands and to the Ponzi scheme that lead to his conviction in 2008, were housed under the Trans Continental companies, whose financial centerpiece was an airline that existed only on paper. Before his scheme ran aground, however, Mr. Pearlman built some of the most successful music groups of the 1990s, one of which started the career of Justin Timberlake, managed from Mr. Pearlman’s lavish home in Orlando, Fla. But he ended up locked in legal battles with almost all the musicians he managed, who accused him of lining his pockets at their expense. In a video interview with The Wall Street Journal, three members of the Backstreet Boys said he had used his ownership of their equipment and band name to halt one of their tours briefly in retaliation for suing him. The group settled out of court. Other musical acts under his management, like ’NSync and LFO, either reached their own settlements or disbanded. Almost all the musicians Mr. Pearlman worked with were young men, and some accused him of sexual impropriety. “I would absolutely say the guy was a sexual predator,” Steve Mooney, a singer who worked as Mr. Pearlman’s assistant and lived in his home for two years, told Vanity Fair magazine in 2007. “All the talent knew what Lou’s game was. If they say no, they’re lying to you. ” Rich Cronin, a singer in LFO, told Vanity Fair that Mr. Pearlman was “always grabbing” the young men he worked with. He said he thought Mr. Pearlman had entered the music business to meet men and had become a hitmaker by accident. “Honestly, I don’t think Lou ever thought we would become stars,” Mr. Cronin said. “I just think he wanted cute guys around him this was all an excuse. And then lightning crazily struck, and an empire was created. It was all dumb luck. ” Mr. Pearlman was never prosecuted for any sex crimes, and in a 2014 jailhouse interview with Billboard magazine he denied that he had committed any. “The accusations that came out in that article, none of it was substantiated,” he said. His empire collapsed under a cascade of lawsuits filed by investors and creditors who had helped finance his endeavors. Mr. Pearlman fled the United States in 2007 after the federal authorities began an investigation. He was found in a hotel in Indonesia later that year using the alias A. Incognito Johnson. He pleaded guilty in 2008 to charges of conspiracy and money laundering in connection with a   Ponzi scheme that defrauded investors who had poured an estimated $300 million into a company that never actually existed. He was sentenced to 25 years in prison. In his 2014 interview with Billboard, Mr. Pearlman insisted that he could have paid back the people he defrauded if the federal authorities had only allowed him to start auditioning singers, even from behind bars. “If I was given a chance to put another band together, that would have paid everybody back. ” he said. Information on survivors was not immediately available. On social media, two former members of ‘NSync, Lance Bass and Mr. Timberlake, expressed sorrow but also alluded to Mr. Pearlman’s checkered past. “He might not have been a   businessman, but I wouldn’t be doing what I love today” without “his influence,” Mr. Bass tweeted on Saturday. “RIP Lou. ” Mr. Timberlake wrote, “I hope he found some peace. ”