Caged mongoose that he is, Anthony Weiner is not easily contained. Neither was my interview with the former congressman, mayoral candidate and apparent sexting recidivist, which appears in this weekend’s Talk feature of the magazine. I spoke to Weiner for about 90 minutes on the final day of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia last month. Because of the early deadlines and long lead times of our print edition, almost three weeks elapsed between our discussion and publication  —   during which The New York Post reported (last weekend) that Weiner seemed to be engaging in more of the kinds of online dalliances that ended his career in Congress in 2011 and blew up his campaign to become mayor of New York in 2013. This time, according to The Post, Weiner was apparently flirting with a college student posing as a female named “Nikki. ” (Weiner reportedly boasted to Nikki that he was “deceptively strong . . . like a mongoose. ”) When I asked Weiner in Philadelphia whether he was still engaging in the activities that got him in trouble, he waved me off. “I’m not going to go down the path of talking about any of that,” he said. (He demurred again when I contacted him this week following the Post report.) O. K. fine. But Weiner was eager to engage on all manner of other matters. What follows is a bonus rendering of our encounter. We convened in the lobby bar of the Logan Hotel a few hours before Hillary Clinton would be giving her acceptance speech to the convention that night. Weiner had recently been in a heavy exposure phase, in a more traditional sense. He had appeared that week as a guest on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert” and “Real Time With Bill Maher. ’’ He was also engaging in spirited political arguments across many platforms. “I get pleasure  —   I don’t think it’s perverse pleasure, but good, honest, wholesome pleasure  —   by infuriating these Trump trolls,” Weiner told me. “That’s a hornet’s nest I don’t mind kicking at all. ” Weiner was in the news a day earlier: Donald Trump had called Clinton a security risk, citing among other things her close relationship with Weiner’s wife, Huma Abedin, a top adviser. Abedin, Trump said, is “married to Anthony Weiner, who’s a sleazeball and pervert. . . . I don’t like Huma going home at night and telling Anthony Weiner all of these secrets. ” I asked Weiner what it has been like to have Huma dragged into these   . “” he told me. “I’ve never seen a staffer targeted like that. I don’t engage on that at all. ” After about 20 minutes in the hotel bar, Weiner was summoned by an aide, and we boarded a van that would shuttle us to the Wells Fargo Arena. We pulled out of the hotel driveway and promptly plowed into a parked limousine  —   with a loud crunching sound. No one was injured, though Weiner’s volunteer driver for the D. N. C. a local college student named Tim, was clearly shaken and upset. Weiner, who had been talking to his    son, Jordan, over a speakerphone, jumped out of the van to direct traffic around the mishap. He evinced the   demeanor of a man who was accustomed to handling things, someone very much in his element amid chaos. Weiner comforted both drivers and oversaw the exchange of insurance information. At one point, he instructed Tim to back up the van, which nearly resulted in a second collision, this time with a police car. “Now, Tim, if you would have gone into reverse, and hit that guy, which you almost did, that would be a legitimate lifelong   story,” Weiner told Tim as the nervous volunteer maneuvered the     van toward the arena. One subject I was interested in discussing with Weiner was “Weiner,” the critically lauded documentary about his disastrous mayoral campaign. Weiner’s campaign melted down following reports of countless instances of the candidate’s tweeting dirty pictures of himself  —   the fallout from which was captured by the filmmakers in excruciating    detail. Weiner said neither he nor his wife had seen the film and had no plans to. When he agreed to participate, he obviously envisioned a movie that would have a much happier ending, ideally starring Mayor Weiner and First Lady Huma. And his comeback triumph would be immortalized on screens much bigger than the   ones that brought him down. For what it’s worth, Weiner’s   made for a much better movie, at least for viewers. But I was still curious: Why, after the scandal broke, given the personal and embarrassing nature of it, didn’t Weiner just stop allowing access to the “Weiner” cameras? Weiner mentioned that one of the filmmakers, Josh Kriegman, was a friend and former aide, and he felt a degree of loyalty to him. “I generally wasn’t going to pull the plug,” he said. I asked Weiner whether his wife got a vote on this. “Um, so here’s the thing,” Weiner said. “I haven’t told  —   I haven’t gone here yet with anybody. So, they violated the agreement not to use her. ” The filmmakers had told Weiner that they would not include Abedin in the film without her permission, he said. “They didn’t have a release,” he told me. “She had to grant permission, which she didn’t. ” Kriegman is traveling on vacation and could not be reached. Lisa Califf, spokeswoman and counsel for the film, disputed that any agreement had been breached. “As is clear in the film, the filmmakers had consent from everyone who appears in the film, including Anthony and Huma,” said Califf via email. Weiner said Kriegman had assured him verbally and in emails that he would not use Abedin in the film without her consent. Both Weiner and Abedin were infuriated when they learned the film would go forward, and prominently feature    footage of Abedin. (In a   phone conversation, Califf said she could not discuss details relating to any discussions that took place between Kriegman and Weiner.) I asked Weiner if he had any plans to sue the filmmakers. “I mean, who knows what happens in the future,” he said. Is Kriegman still his friend? “Look, I like him,” Weiner said. “I just think this was a venal thing by someone who’s not venal. I mean, maybe I’ll get over it, maybe I won’t. ” Weiner said he and Abedin are rarely in the same place these days. She is off traveling with Clinton much of the time, and he is spending the bulk of his in New York, often taking care of Jordan. He said he had been back to Washington only twice since leaving Congress five years ago. He does not miss it, but allowed that there’s a good chance his wife could wind up back in D. C. if Clinton wins. “We haven’t figured that out yet,” Weiner said of his plans for after the election. “I mean, talking to Huma about it is like talking to a pitcher in the sixth inning while he’s pitching a  . You don’t want to jinx anything. ” As Weiner’s dented van wound through traffic and security checkpoints, we pulled up to a side entrance of the Wells Fargo arena as scores of dignitaries were arriving. Representative Steny Hoyer, the House Democratic whip, emerged from the S. U. V. in front of ours. Weiner approached his former colleague to say hello. “Hi, I’m Anthony Weiner,” he said, extending his hand. “I used to be somebody. ”