 (CNN) Here’s a look at what you need to know about the Oslo Accords, a series of agreements between Israel and the Palestinians signed in the 1990’s. Facts:Oslo I is formally known as the Declaration of Principles (DOP). The pact established a timetable for the Middle East peace process. It planned for an interim Palestinian government in Gaza and Jericho in the West Bank. After the signing, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat shook hands. The United States was not actively involved in the negotiations. The meetings were carried out in secret over several months in 1992 and 1993. Oslo II, officially called the   Interim Agreement on the West Bank and Gaza, expanded on Oslo I. It included provisions for the complete withdrawal of Israeli troops from six West Bank cities and about 450 towns. Additionally, the pact set a timetable for elections for the Palestinian Legislative Council. Timeline:April 1992   Terje Rod Larsen, head of a Norwegian research institute, suggests to Israeli politician Yossi Beilin that Norway act as an intermediary between Israel and the PLO. September 10, 1992   At a secret meeting in Tel Aviv, Israel, Norwegian State Secretary Jan Egeland formally offers his country’s help. December 1992 to April 1993   Fourteen meetings are held, in London and Norway, between Professor Yair Hirschfeld and Ahmed Qorei, of the PLO.   April 1993   After several months, Qorei insists on meeting with someone officially representing Israel’s government. Israeli Foreign Ministry Director General Uri Savir takes over for Hirschfeld. Qorei and Savir meet 11 more times between April and August. August 19, 1993   Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres secretly flies to Oslo, Norway, and meets with Qorei. He witnesses the signing of the agreement between Savir and Qorei. September 10, 1993   The PLO reaffirms its recognition of Israel’s right to exist, and in turn, Israel recognizes the PLO as the sole representative of the Palestinian people. September 10, 1993   President Bill Clinton announces a resumption of talks between the United States and the PLO. This clears the way for Yasser Arafat to travel to the U. S. September 13, 1993   Oslo Accords (referred to as Oslo I at this point) are signed by Shimon Peres and Mahmoud Abbas, and witnessed by Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat, in Washington, D. C. October 1994   Arafat, Peres and Rabin are awarded the Nobel Peace prize.  September 28, 1995   A second significant agreement is signed in Washington, D. C. This agreement is often referred to as Oslo II. November 4, 1995   Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin is assassinated at a peace rally.  Early 2000   The Oslo peace process appears to be working, but Israeli and Palestinian leaders are unable to resolve some key issues and agree on a final peace settlement. September 2000   Riots, attacks and suicide bombings end the peace process.   November 11, 2004   Yasser Arafat dies in Paris, France.  September 30, 2015   Mahmoud Abbas accuses Israel of not committing to the Oslo Accords and declares that Palestinians ”cannot continue to be bound by these agreements.” The Details of Oslo Accords:The Declaration calls for:  Israel to withdraw from Jericho and Gaza, and eventually the West Bank.  Five years of limited autonomy for Palestinians in those areas.  Election of Palestinian Legislative Council within nine months.  Establishment of a Palestinian police force.  The question of Jerusalem was left undecided.