Just a few weeks ago, things seemed to be breaking Philippe A. Dauman’s way in his legal bid to maintain his grip on Viacom  —   which owns, among other things MTV, Comedy Central and Paramount Pictures  —   by having its majority owner and chairman, the    media mogul Sumner Redstone, declared mentally incompetent. In Massachusetts, a judge denied motions to dismiss Mr. Dauman’s suit, calling it “plausible” that Mr. Redstone was suffering under the undue influence of his daughter, Shari Redstone. The judge set an October trial date and ordered Mr. Redstone’s lawyers to turn over his medical records. In Delaware, in a parallel lawsuit brought by Frederic V. Salerno, Viacom’s lead independent director, a judge also ruled that the case could proceed and cleared the way for a medical examination of Mr. Redstone “in a dignified way,” while cautioning Viacom’s lawyers to refrain from acting like “attack” dogs. The Redstone forces dreaded the prospect of more examinations of the ailing and enfeebled billionaire, giving Mr. Dauman and his allies considerable leverage. So when word circulated late last week that a settlement had been reached, there was reason to expect that Mr. Dauman had largely prevailed. This week Viacom disclosed the terms of the settlement in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. And for all practical purposes, Mr. Dauman “got nothing,” said John C. Coffee, a professor and expert in corporate governance at Columbia Law School. Mr. Dauman is already out as chief executive, and he will lose his board seat and position as chairman in a few weeks. He gets a severance package worth $72 million  —   but he would have gotten that anyway under his contract had he simply accepted his fate months ago and exited gracefully. Shari Redstone achieved almost total victory, but at the cost of months of expensive litigation and debilitating paralysis at Viacom. (This weekend’s box office dud, “” is the latest in a string of flops from Paramount.) She will soon be free to replace a majority of Viacom’s directors with people of her own choosing and has already named five new directors. For all intents and purposes, she has now gained unfettered control of her father’s vast media empire. And perhaps Mr. Redstone can retain what’s left of his dignity. So why did Mr. Dauman capitulate? Through a Viacom spokesman, Jeremy Zweig, Mr. Dauman declined to comment. His dwindling supporters contend that he simply acted in the best interests of Viacom’s shareholders after he realized that even a victory in the court cases would take years of litigation and appeals. But surely he knew that (and his lawyers would certainly have told him) before he launched his   assault. The real reason, my interviews this week with numerous participants suggest, is that Mr. Dauman had little choice after he lost the backing of many of his handpicked directors on Viacom’s board, who concluded that his confrontational tactics were harming the company and threatening to damage their own reputations. The settlement was largely negotiated not by Mr. Dauman and his lawyers, but by Mr. Salerno, the lead independent director, and representatives of Ms. Redstone, and dictated to Mr. Dauman. Before the settlement, Mr. Dauman played the role of attack dog decried by the Delaware judge  —   an approach he no doubt learned from decades at the side of Mr. Redstone who, in his prime, was notoriously combative and litigious. The two were so close that Mr. Dauman was once considered a surrogate son. “Dauman learned Sumner’s approach, which is he wanted total control at all times,” Mr. Coffee said. Mr. Redstone rewarded Mr. Dauman handsomely: Viacom paid him $491. 7 million over the last 10 years, according to Equilar, which compiles compensation data. But when Mr. Redstone finally stepped down as Viacom’s chairman in February, Ms. Redstone, newly reconciled and installed in the Redstone mansion as her father’s primary caregiver, opposed Mr. Dauman’s succession as Viacom’s executive chairman. In May, Mr. Redstone moved to replace Mr. Dauman and another longtime confidant of Mr. Redstone’s, George Abrams, as directors of the trust that governs National Amusements. National Amusements in turn controls Mr. Redstone’s 80 percent voting stake in Viacom. (Ms. Redstone controls the remaining 20 percent.) Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams sued to block their ouster from the trust, since that was obviously just the first step toward Mr. Dauman being replaced at Viacom. This seemed a dubious strategy from the   given that Mr. Redstone and his daughter controlled the company and Mr. Redstone, however physically impaired, had clearly turned against Mr. Dauman. To win in court, Mr. Dauman and his allies had to prove that Mr. Redstone “suffers from profound physical and mental illness,” as his complaint alleged  —   only months after he said in another court case that Mr. Redstone was “engaged and attentive. ” Despite Mr. Dauman’s early court victories, “there was no way he was going to ultimately win,” said Charles Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. “It all comes down to the fact that the Redstones had the votes. You may not agree philosophically with the dual class of shares that gave them control, but that’s the reality. ” Perhaps Mr. Dauman was simply buying time, hoping that the mercurial Mr. Redstone might again abruptly shift his affections. In any event, Mr. Dauman had the support of the Viacom board, and, by casting their lots with Mr. Dauman over Ms. Redstone, they, too, were likely to lose their positions if the Redstones prevailed. Remarkably, Viacom agreed to pick up all of the costs of Mr. Dauman’s litigation assault against the Redstones, as well as Mr. Salerno’s Delaware lawsuit. Though they publicly maintained a united front, the board members began to waver in their support as the summer wore on, and Viacom under Mr. Dauman’s leadership posted disastrous operating results. The latest film in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles franchise, Paramount’s big summer movie, failed at the box office, prompting a profit warning. On Aug. 4, the company reported a 29 percent drop in profit for the latest quarter. Ratings agencies said they might downgrade the company’s debt to junk status. Given the uncertainty, companies didn’t want to make deals with Viacom, and key employees threatened to leave. Viacom shares have been battered, dropping 46 percent over the last two years. Then Mr. Salerno was distressed to learn that Mr. Dauman’s lawyers were pursuing settlement talks with the Redstone camp  —   without telling Mr. Salerno or other directors  —   that would provide him with some kind of transition role. While those talks were going on, Mr. Salerno was speaking regularly with Aryeh Bourkoff, founder and chief executive of LionTree, a boutique investment advisory firm. Mr. Bourkoff had no formal role (and wasn’t being paid) but, as investment bankers often do, offered his advice, which was to focus on the interests of the company and not Mr. Dauman’s increasingly bitter and personal feud with the Redstones. Once Mr. Salerno recognized that Mr. Dauman’s position as chief executive was no longer tenable, given Viacom’s deteriorating performance and continued hostility from the Redstones, he realized that his goals for the company weren’t all that different from Ms. Redstone’s. An early resolution of the lawsuits and the removal of Mr. Dauman would end the paralysis at the company, which is losing ground in a   media environment. Mr. Bourkoff contacted Ken Lerer, a venture capitalist, a founder of The Huffington Post (recently acquired by Verizon) and chairman of BuzzFeed. Mr. Lerer is close to Ms. Redstone, and she had publicly named him as one of her choices for the Viacom board. Mr. Bourkoff suggested Mr. Lerer meet privately with Mr. Salerno. With Ms. Redstone’s blessing, Mr. Salerno, Mr. Bourkoff and Mr. Lerer met at Mr. Lerer’s weekend home in Quogue, on Long Island, on Aug. 7, just three days after the weak earnings news. According to both Mr. Lerer and Mr. Bourkoff, it didn’t take long to reach the basic terms of an agreement. There wasn’t much in it for Mr. Dauman, although he avoided the prospect of years of mudslinging litigation that might well have damaged his reputation as much as Mr. Redstone’s. Mr. Salerno kept Mr. Dauman informed, but ultimately gave him little choice but to accept the terms. Mr. Salerno and the directors fared a little better. They get to stay on the board until the next annual meeting and board election, which will be moved up to no later than Feb. 3. National Amusements can then choose three of the six independent directors up for election, meaning three current board members will retain their seats. Thought it hasn’t been decided yet who those three will be, Mr. Salerno’s negotiating manages to keep some independent directors. Ms. Redstone’s five nominees (Mr. Lerer among them) will join the board now, and no material decisions can be made without a supermajority vote, effectively giving Ms. Redstone’s representatives immediate veto power over any major decision, such as a sale of Paramount. So what did Mr. Dauman accomplish, other than indulging his anger toward Mr. Redstone and enriching a bevy of lawyers and other advisers, to the detriment of Viacom? About the best that can be said for Mr. Dauman, Mr. Coffee offered, is that “it could have been worse. ” “He didn’t fight to the final bunker,” Mr. Coffee added. If he had, “Viacom would have been paralyzed for years. ”