 (CNN) Here’s a look at what you need to know about the Camp David Accords. Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and US President Jimmy Carter signed the Camp David Accords on September 17, 1978 in Washington, DC. The Details of the Camp David Accords:Called for a formal peace treaty to be signed between Israel and Egypt, within three months. Called for establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. Called for Israeli withdrawal from the Sinai Peninsula in stages, to be completed within three years. Called for further meetings to resolve the Palestinian question. The meeting would include Jordan and a representative of the Palestinian people. Called for a   transitional period of Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank and Gaza. This transitional period would include the introduction of Palestinian  . Called for an end to Israeli settlements in the West Bank. Did not settle the question of East Jerusalem. Timeline:November 9, 1977   Egyptian President Anwar Sadat announces that he is ”ready to go to the Israeli parliament itself” to resolve the   conflict. This is despite the fact that the two countries do not have diplomatic relations and are technically still at war. November 15, 1977   Through the US, Israel formally extends an invitation to Sadat to visit the country. November 19, 1977   Sadat makes a historic first visit by an Arab head of state to Israel. During the   visit, Sadat meets with Prime Minister Menachem Begin, addresses the Knesset, and lays a wreath at a monument to Israeli war dead.  December   1977   Representatives from Syria, Iraq, Libya, Algeria, South Yemen and the Palestine Liberation Organization meet in Libya to discuss ways of stopping the   peace process. December 5, 1977   Egypt cuts diplomatic ties with Syria, Iraq, Libya, Algeria and South Yemen. December 14, 1977   Egypt hosts Israel, the US and the United Nations at a peace summit in Cairo. December   1977   Sadat hosts Prime Minister Menachem Begin at a summit in Ismailia, Egypt. September 6, 1978   The   peace summit begins in Camp David, Maryland. After meeting formally on the first day of the   summit, Sadat and Begin do not meet again during the negotiations. Instead, Carter acts as a  . September 19, 1978   The Egyptian Cabinet approves the agreement. September 28, 1978   The Israeli Knesset approves the agreement. October 2, 1978   Sadat lashes out at Arab nations opposing the accords and says that ”[Egypt] constitutes a great danger to all those regimes. They liquidate people in Iraq. They hang people in Libya. Here in Egypt, we have democracy, security. .. They dread it all.” November 1978   PLO leader Yasser Arafat travels to Moscow to discuss organized opposition to the agreement. The PLO and the Soviet Union release a statement describing the accords as ”a collusion at the expense of and behind the backs of the Arabs aimed at helping Israel entrench [itself] on captured Arab land, including Palestine, and prevent implementation of the Palestinians’ inalienable national rights.” March 26, 1979   In a ceremony in Washington, DC, Egypt and Israel formally sign a peace treaty ending 31 years of war between them.