 (CNN) Hours after airstrikes killed 20 members of the same family    including nine children    in Aleppo, Russia announced it will temporarily stop airstrikes on the   eastern part of the city.  Moscow has helped bolster the Syrian regime’s airstrikes on   parts of Aleppo, Syria’s largest city and the site of a humanitarian catastrophe.  Gen. Sergey Rudskoy announced airstrikes will stop for eight hours Thursday, starting at 8 a. m.  He also urged rebels to leave the city via two corridors to Idlib.  ”These same corridors can be used to evacuate the sick and wounded,” Rudskoy    the chief of the main operations department of the Russian General Staff    said, according to Russian   media. ”Six corridors will be opened for the passage of civilians.” Rudskoy’s statement came about the same time that EU foreign ministers called on Russia to ”halt indiscriminate bombing by the Syrian regime.” But there’s no promise the bloodshed won’t resume after that   break.  10 children killed in airstrikes Monday, Twenty members of the same family were killed in airstrikes on the neighborhood of Marjah in   east Aleppo Monday morning, according to activists at the Aleppo Media Center (AMC) and the White Helmets group. Two   old babies     a boy and a girl    were among those killed, according to a list of names and ages listed by the AMC. In recent days, hundreds of civilians have died amid the Syrian army’s renewed offensive on   parts of the city. A video shows some of the children killed lying    on the side of a street, wrapped in white cloth. A man squats and kisses one of the infants on the forehead before carrying the bodies away.  Since Sunday, airstrikes have killed at least 45 people in two neighborhoods in Aleppo, the AMC said. The death toll continued to climb after Moscow vetoed a United Nations Security Council resolution Saturday to stop the bombing in Aleppo and allow access for humanitarian aid.  As the strikes have continued, Western powers accused Syrian President Bashar   and his supporters of war crimes. Both the United States and United Kingdom have mulled potential economic sanctions against Syria and Russia due to the Aleppo crisis.