BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   As rebel negotiators unveiled a new plan on Wednesday for a political transition in Syria, doctors in the city of Aleppo were still treating people in intensive care after an attack believed to involve the use of chlorine gas sickened more than 120 people, including 10 women and 37 children. At least two people died in the attack, which witnesses said was carried out by government forces in the   section of Aleppo. Rescuers and citizen journalists who went to the scene said by text message that there had been a strong smell of bleach. One of the victims, a    girl named Hajer Kyali, died Wednesday afternoon. She had been in intensive care since the attack, which doctors said they believed had struck her family’s house directly, delivering a deadly dose of the gas. Medical staff members described seeing people with symptoms such as shortness of breath, coughing, sneezing, irritation of the eyes, nausea and in some cases respiratory failure. Such symptoms are consistent with attacks involving chlorine, which can kill in high concentrations. Rescue workers also said that four members of the White Helmets volunteer rescue group had been killed responding to attacks in the past day in the provinces of Aleppo and Idlib, both in “ ” strikes that hit the area a second time to target rescuers. The rescue workers said the Sukari district, the same neighborhood hit by the suspected chlorine attack on Tuesday, was struck on Wednesday by two barrel bombs, killing an estimated 20 people, according to witnesses and rescuers. Doctors were still working to confirm the final death toll. In London, the Syrian oppositions’ negotiating body, the High Negotiations Committee, presented a new vision of a political transition to end the civil war, now in its sixth year. The group said that it would preserve the human rights of all Syrians and the institutions of the state, including the military, and seek to avoid the mistakes made by the United States occupation in Iraq. That means having a military council made up of both   and opposition figures, and no wholesale purges, with punishment only for those directly responsible for crimes. The committee’s leader, Riyad Hijab, a former Syrian prime minister who defected after a crackdown on protests that began in 2011, laid out the plan in London at a meeting of countries supporting the opposition. He said that the group could talk with members of President Bashar  ’s government but that, at the end of the negotiation process, Mr. Assad should leave office  —   a proposal that fails to resolve an impasse with Russia and the Assad government, which insist that he can stay in office during a political transition. The gas attack came three years after the Syrian government agreed to give up its chemical weapons program under a deal brokered by the United States and Russia. It also accompanied several days of intense aerial bombardment of eastern Aleppo by government and allied Russian forces that have continued as Russian and American diplomats seek to negotiate a   deal. There was no independent confirmation of who carried out the attack or that chlorine was used the Assad government and its armed opponents have accused each other of using chlorine as a weapon of war. A recent United Nations report determined that both the government and Islamic State militants have used chemical weapons on several occasions. In Aleppo, the forces fighting the government range from groups with American backing to factions that until recently were officially affiliated with Al Qaeda. The Islamic State is not a player in the city. The first death reported from the gas attack in Sukari was that of Abdulkareem Afefa, 29. Numerous videos and photographs that doctors, rescuers and witnesses shared online showed men, women and children being treated with oxygen. Abdelkafi   an activist and citizen journalist who filmed the aftermath of the attack, said that when he arrived at the scene, the fumes were still so strong that he could not catch his breath. “I couldn’t speak to the camera without a mask,” he said. Mr. Hamdo said that some people at the scene had reached such a level of despair  —   having concluded that publicizing such attacks brings no help from the outside world and may even bring more danger  —   that they tried to stop him from filming. “Some people think that if they told the world that they are being killed, Assad will drop many weapons on them,” he said. He added that people had told him they believed the government was targeting civilians to encourage them to flee, and that showing many civilian victims makes the area a good target for the next attack. “The message from Assad and Russia is this: ‘You have to accept my conditions or die,’” he said. The sputtering negotiations over a   include a Russian proposal for civilians to leave the area residents fear they will never be allowed back. Russia and the government say that civilians have been taken hostage by the fighters in   areas. “Nothing, just chemical once again, don’t worry, don’t be sad, it is normal,” Aref   an   activist with the Aleppo Media Center, said in a sarcastic text message as he shared his photographs of victims. In 2013, after sarin gas attacks killed more than 1, 000 people in   suburbs of Damascus, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution authorizing militarily enforceable sanctions for any party using chemical weapons in Syria. But Russia has blocked the use of those sanctions against the Syrian government, which denies it was responsible. Under threat of United States retaliation for the sarin attacks, the government agreed to eliminate its previously secret chemical weapons program. Chlorine gas is not listed as a banned chemical weapon in the international Chemical Weapons Convention that Syria agreed to join under the agreement, but its use as a military weapon is banned under international law.