ASTON, Pa.  —   Donald J. Trump unveiled a menu of proposals on Tuesday to help working parents, calling for six weeks of mandatory paid maternity leave and expanded tax credits for child care. The proposals, which Mr. Trump outlined in the politically critical Philadelphia suburbs along with his daughter Ivanka, represent a new attempt to court female voters who polls show have been alienated by his bombast and history of provocative remarks about women. “Those in leadership must put themselves in the shoes of the   factory worker, the family worried about security or the mom struggling to afford child care,” Mr. Trump said at a rally here. Mr. Trump’s decision to put forward such a plan represents a different approach from the one taken by previous Republican presidential nominees. But in selling his case, Mr. Trump stretched the truth, saying that his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, has no such plan of her own and “never will. ” Mrs. Clinton issued her plan more than a year ago, and it guarantees up to 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave for a newborn or a sick relative, financed by an increase in taxes on the wealthiest Americans. On Twitter, her campaign posted a link to her plan after Mr. Trump’s remark. Mr. Trump and his daughter spoke about the issue at the Republican National Convention in July, but the candidate had not mentioned it publicly until Tuesday. Mr. Trump faces a potentially   gender gap with women, but pushing the proposal so close to the election risks looking slapdash on a serious topic. The campaign staved off potential complaints from social conservatives who have historically frowned on giving incentives to mothers to work outside the home, by vowing to make those caretaker roles  . At the speech, Mr. Trump was joined by some female members of Congress. Noting one applauding in the audience as he spoke, Mr. Trump pointed to the crowd and said, “Makes your life a lot easier, right?” Mr. Trump first proposed the child care initiative weeks ago, but he broadened it to help working parents after facing criticism that his initial proposal would primarily help high earners rather than women and families on the lower end of the economic spectrum. “Child care is such a big problem,” he said Tuesday. “And we’re going to solve that problem. ” Ms. Trump, who stood next to her father as he spoke in Pennsylvania, said she would make the plan’s passage a priority if her father won. Affordable child care “should not be the luxury of a fortunate few,” she said. The new recommendations contained a number of uncertainties, most notably how Mr. Trump would pay for them, and they still favor people with higher incomes. The candidate’s aides said his goals would be achieved through a change in the tax code to help pay for child care, to be detailed in another speech, probably this week. The main thrust of Mr. Trump’s plan involves a reordering of the tax code so working parents can take an income tax deduction for care of up to four children and   dependents. The deduction is available for individuals earning up to $250, 000, or $500, 000 for a married couple filing jointly. There would also be child care spending rebates as high as $1, 200 a year for families on the lower end of the income scale. That is an amount that some critics called inadequate given that the cost of child care in some states is $10, 000 to $20, 000 a year. Another proposal aimed at   parents is a dependent care savings account, a version of a flexible spending account usually offered by employers. Such accounts would be universal and used for   or traditional child care, with a government match of $500 a year  —   a minuscule amount given the cost of such care, and given the difficulty that   families have putting away money in such accounts. Among the open questions are whether the deductions that working parents could claim would replace the existing   tax credit, whether there would be an age cap for the children involved, and what the actual scale of benefit would be for people of various incomes. The signature element of the plan, six weeks of paid maternity leave for new mothers whose employers do not currently provide coverage, would be financed by eliminating fraud in unemployment insurance. Mr. Trump’s aides trumpeted the proposal as unprecedented for a G. O. P. presidential nominee many Republicans oppose requiring paid maternity leave as an onerous new regulation on businesses. Earlier Tuesday, at a campaign rally in Clive, Iowa, the candidate singled out Ivanka Trump, a mother of three who has developed her own licensing and branding company, as the driving force behind the plan. Some social conservatives said they were pleasantly surprised by Mr. Trump’s proposed tax benefit for    mothers. “I was quite pleased with it,” said Tony Perkins of the conservative Family Research Council. He called it “innovative” in acknowledging “the contribution that    parents make. ” But the plan was met with criticism from the Clinton campaign and skepticism from some child care advocacy groups, which warned that the people most in need of relief would not get it. “After spending his entire career  —   and this entire campaign  —   demeaning women and dismissing the need to support working families,” Maya Harris, Mrs. Clinton’s senior policy adviser, said in a statement, “Donald Trump released a regressive and insufficient ‘maternity leave’ policy that is out of touch,   and ignores the way Americans live and work today. ” Vivien Labaton, a director of the nonpartisan group Make It Work Action, called Mr. Trump’s plan “woefully inadequate. ” She said the   tax credit component meant that families in need would have to wait to receive relief just once a year, and called the $1, 200 rebate a “drop in the bucket” for   families who were facing child care costs of more than $10, 000 a year. Paid leave has increasing political resonance. One of the major reasons the share of women working in the United States has fallen behind other developed countries is the lack of paid family leave, according to research by Cornell University economists. Mr. Trump’s embrace of paid leave would apply only to mothers, as opposed to Mrs. Clinton’s plan, which would cover both parents. Some economists say that when leave is offered only to women, it can backfire by lowering women’s chances of being hired and promoted and getting raises. Ms. Labaton expressed skepticism about the proposal “coming less than 60 days before Election Day,” deriding it as “a naked attempt to court women voters while not actually offering up much by way of genuine support. ”