OAKLAND, Calif.  —   She fired none of the shots, she was nowhere near the bloody scene, and none of the evidence made public so far hints that she shared her husband’s violent jihadist ideology. Yet Noor Zahi Salman, the widow of the gunman who massacred revelers at an Orlando nightclub, stood before a federal judge on Tuesday as the only person charged in the attack. In the early hours of June 12, Ms. Salman’s husband, Omar Mateen, killed 49 people at Pulse, a gay nightclub, and wounded 53 others in one of the worst terrorist attacks on American soil. Before being fatally shot by the police, Mr. Mateen, a    security guard, declared his allegiance to the Islamic State. Though suspicion and scrutiny naturally fall on people close to someone who commits terrorism or mass murder, it is rare for a wife or a girlfriend to end up facing charges. But in a brief hearing in federal court in Oakland, a federal prosecutor, Roger Handberg, explained why the authorities considered Ms. Salman an exception. “She knew he was going to conduct the attack,” Mr. Handberg said. An indictment unsealed on Tuesday accused Ms. Salman, 30, of “aiding and abetting the attempted provision and provision of material support to a foreign terrorist organization,” a charge that can carry a sentence of life in prison. She was also charged with obstruction of justice for allegedly misleading police officers and federal agents, who interviewed her for 12 hours on the day of the shooting. Ms. Salman went with her husband to buy ammunition, drove him to Orlando when he apparently scouted his target, and knew that he watched jihadist propaganda videos. Those could be innocent acts or indications of criminal culpability, depending on her own intent and what she knew of his. Her fate could turn on evidence about her frame of mind, including how much she was controlled by her husband, who she has said abused her. “We’ve seen the government trying to widen the definition of ‘material support,’ and the increased visibility of women being involved in jihadist movements” makes it easier to imagine charging them with terrorism, said Nimmi Gowrinathan, a visiting professor at the City College of New York who studies women in violent situations around the world. In an interview last fall with The New York Times, her only public statement since the attack, Ms. Salman said she had not known what her husband planned to do, a claim that her uncle, Al Salman, made repeatedly outside the courthouse on Tuesday. Prosecutors, who plan to pursue the case in a federal court in Florida, gave little new information, leaving unclear what evidence they had or why seven months had passed before charges were filed. Ms. Salman, who was arrested on Monday and has a young son fathered by Mr. Mateen, has been living with relatives in Rodeo, Calif. northeast of San Francisco. Visibly shaking in a   and gray jail uniform, Ms. Salman stood in court Tuesday and, in a barely audible voice, told Magistrate Judge Donna M. Ryu, who had to ask her to speak up, that she understood the charges against her. Only when she was led from the courtroom did she raise her head and let her eyes search the packed gallery. On Wednesday, the judge will consider whether to grant bail. The married couple who fatally shot 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif. in 2015 provide the clearest case of a wife as accomplice, but examples remain rare. A study of more than 100 terrorists in Western countries who acted alone or in pairs found that most of them were single.   percent confided in someone about their plans, the authors found, but   research showed that only 4 percent told a spouse, a girlfriend or a boyfriend. The closest parallel to Ms. Salman may be Katherine Russell, the widow of one of the Boston Marathon bombers, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, and the mother of his child. The bombs detonated at the race in 2013 were made in the home she and her husband shared, and testimony at the trial of the surviving bomber  —   Ms. Russell’s    Dzhokhar Tsarnaev  —   indicated that her computer had been used for a search on the rewards that come to the widow of a martyr for Islam. Ms. Russell talked to investigators but refused to testify before a grand jury without immunity from prosecution. Federal agents investigating the case were eager to bring charges against her, but prosecutors decided not to. Ms. Salman and Mr. Mateen’s former wife, Sitora Yusufiy, have both said that he beat them severely and tried to control every aspect of their lives. Citing that abuse, a lawyer for Ms. Salman, Linda Moreno, said recently that it was “misguided and wrong to prosecute her. ” Experts say that domestic violence is a common trait among mass killers and terrorists, and that close relatives are often among their victims. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was also accused of domestic violence by a previous girlfriend. “Misogyny and extremism work together very often, so abuse is entrenched in these cases,” Dr. Gowrinathan, the City College professor, said. But, she added, sympathy for women as victims of abuse tends to evaporate in terrorism cases. At the time of the Pulse shooting, Ms. Salman was at home in Fort Pierce, Fla. a   drive from Orlando, but the indictment charged that she had been abetting her husband’s plans since at least late April. Prosecutors say she knowingly misled the F. B. I. agents and Fort Pierce police officers who interviewed her. The indictment also says the government wants her to forfeit more than $30, 000, which may be connected to the jewelry she has said her husband lavished on her in the final days of his life. In interviews last year, friends and acquaintances described Ms. Salman as a relatively naïve young woman, a doting mother who could have unwittingly witnessed the buildup to her husband’s attack. The daughter of Palestinian immigrants, she struggled in high school, they said, but earned an associate degree at a community college before meeting Mr. Mateen, a son of Afghan immigrants, on an Arab dating website. “I was unaware of everything,” Ms. Salman said in the Times interview last year. “I don’t condone what he has done. I am very sorry for what has happened. He has hurt a lot of people. ” She said that she had known her husband was viewing jihadist videos, but that she had disapproved and forced him to turn them off so that their son would not see them. She said that the drive to Orlando had seemed innocent, and that the ammunition purchase was unremarkable for a security guard who practiced at a shooting range. The F. B. I. questioned Mr. Mateen after he told   in 2013 that he had ties to terrorist groups like Hezbollah, and again in 2014, when his name came up in another terrorism case. But agents never found evidence that he was plotting an attack. In the Times interview, Ms. Salman said she had thought that if her husband had been a danger, the F. B. I. would have arrested him.