BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   They are getting used to fewer explosions, and to fewer ambulances racing through their   cities. Now, under a tentative   across Syria, people have more time to think about   concerns. We’ve been keeping in touch with Syrians from all over the country since the truce took effect Monday night. They’re sharing their thoughts, experiences, videos and photos  —   and their doubts. President Bashar  ’s supporters and opponents alike share a sense of misgiving. They know the   was negotiated between Russia and the United States, over their heads. They do not know its details, and they do not know if anyone  —   the world powers or their own putative leaders, whether the opposition or the government  —   has their interests in mind. As the Syrian government held up promised United Nations aid for a third day, fighters and civilians in   Aleppo called the aid a poisoned chalice that legitimized Mr. Assad’s siege tactics. There are also skeptics in   areas, some who favor Mr. Assad and some who don’t. In many such places, the   has a smaller upside: The residents have not been living under airstrikes, because the rebels lack planes. “I hope this   is real, and not a chance for the armed groups to rearm,” said a police officer in a   Christian village near Homs. Doubts persist even in the areas that have suffered most from rebel shelling: on the western side of Aleppo and in two Shiite villages in Idlib Province, islands of   territory besieged by rebels. They worry that Mr. Assad and his allies  —   Iran, Russia and the Lebanese militia Hezbollah  —   are too busy with war to make helping them a priority. Hussein Halaq, 35, a computer technician, lives with his wife and three children in Fouaa, one of those encircled Shiite villages. He said the biggest danger was   fighters in neighboring Binnish. We spoke by phone to a lawyer who supports Mr. Assad and lives in the western,   section of Aleppo, and who was concerned about the presence of fighters from the   Nusra Front, recently renamed the Levant Conquest Front. He asked not to be identified because he was not authorized by the government to speak to reporters. Yusuf   50, a hospital worker, lives in his   ’s apartment in central Damascus with his wife, a teacher, and their three children. They fled their home in Yarmouk, a Palestinian refugee camp, in December 2012 after rebels infiltrated and the government started airstrikes the    fled to Germany. Mr. Ali spoke in a coffee shop near his home. Firas Alsaid, 28, was also nervous, wondering how long the calm would last. He lives in the   town of Talbiseh in the central province of Homs. He has not left the town, which has been hit by frequent airstrikes, since the revolt began, and he finds the quiet almost eerie.