Washington (CNN) Sarah Palin is not so subtly slamming filmmaker Michael Moore for his tweet dissing snipers. ”Hollywood leftists: while caressing shiny plastic trophies you exchange among one another while spitting on the graves of freedom fighters who allow you to do what you do, just realize the rest of America knows you’re not fit to shine Chris Kyle’s combat boots,” Palin wrote on her Facebook Page on Monday.  She didn’t mention Moore by name, but she was clearly reacting to Moore’s controversial tweet, saying ”We were taught snipers were cowards. Will shoot u in the back. Snipers aren’t heroes. And invaders r worse.” Michael Moore explains snipers are ’cowards’ tweet, Moore later insisted he was not taking aim at the real life ”American Sniper,” Chris Kyle, or Bradley Cooper who played Kyle in the blockbuster movie. That’s unlikely to convince Palin. It turns out her passion is personal. Chris Kyle was on Palin’s security team in 2011 when she visited Pella, Iowa, and the two remained friends.   Kyle also got to know Todd Palin well when the two competed against one another on the NBC show ”Stars and Stripes” in 2012 to raise money for charity.  After Kyle was killed in 2013, the Palins attended his funeral and Todd Palin said he would donate his winnings from an Iron Dog race that year to Kyle’s memorial fund. Opinion: Why I refuse to see ’American Sniper’ Moore isn’t the only public figure on the receiving end of Sarah Palin’s mama grizzly protectiveness of Kyle and his widow, Taya. She went after former Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura in 2013 for continuing a lawsuit against Kyle even after his death. Ventura was suing Kyle for defamation for claiming during his book tour that he knocked Ventura out. ”Hey tough guy, Jesse Ventura, your feelings were hurt because you perceived your reputation was besmirched by words in a book?” Palin said. ”So you turn around and sue, expecting $2 million from a military widow and her fatherless children? Yeah, like that is going to help your reputation, jackass.” In her Facebook post Monday, Palin was eager to shower praise on Cooper and director Clint Eastwood ”for respecting the United States Military.” ”May the epic ’American Sniper’ bring nothing but blessings to Taya and the children of this true American hero,” Palin wrote. Why ’American Sniper’ is a smash hit