Under continued pressure from fans, parents and lawmakers to address the growing problem of head trauma in football, the N. F. L. will spend another $100 million on the development of new technology and more research on the effects of head injuries. The initiative, announced by Commissioner Roger Goodell in an open letter Wednesday, comes on top of more than $100 million the league has spent on new equipment and   studies on the impact of concussions and repeated head blows. This time, the league said, the money will be earmarked for “independent medical research and engineering advancements” to advance the “prevention, diagnosis and treatment of head injuries enhance medical protocols and further improve the way the game is taught and played by all who love it. ” The N. F. L. has said details on its initiatives will be shared with the public, including other sports leagues and the parents of young football players, to address criticism that it has been   in how it has spent the money and that it has worked behind the scenes to steer money to friendly doctors and researchers. “We know there is skepticism about our work in this area,” Goodell said in his letter. “That’s why both the process and the results of our work will be shared with the medical community and the public at large. ” Much of that letter trumpeted the N. F. L. ’s existing programs and previous rule changes, as well as the money it has already spent on research. But the main development on Wednesday was the league’s commitment to spend yet more money to address the problems associated with head trauma. Doctors generally applauded the N. F. L. for its latest effort, although they also said they wanted to see how the money would be spent. “The more money that’s out there, that’s good,” said Dr. Robert Cantu, a   of the Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy at the Boston University School of Medicine and the medical director of the Concussion Legacy Foundation. “The reality is, the words are all good, but it’s the deeds that count. ” Despite having already committed tens of millions of dollars on new technology and research, the league remains under intense scrutiny for its handling of head injuries. Barely a week goes by without a debate over whether a player hit on the field has received proper treatment. In the   game last week, Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton was repeatedly hit in the head by opposing players and was not taken off the field to be evaluated, spurring arguments in the news media and on social media. The N. F. L. ’s top medical officers have had to answer questions on Capitol Hill, where they have admitted a link between head hits and the degenerative neurological condition chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C. T. E. The league will spend hundreds of millions of dollars to settle a   lawsuit with former players who said the league hid from them the dangers of concussions. To reassure jittery parents, the league has also funneled tens of millions of dollars into U. S. A. Football to teach safe tackling techniques to coaches and young players. The N. F. L. though, came under fire when U. S. A. Football admitted that its claim that the Heads Up program had reduced concussions was based on faulty preliminary data. The money that the N. F. L. has spent to address head injuries has also been questioned. Last year, the N. F. L. was accused of preventing $16 million of its money from being spent on a   study on the impact of head injuries that was being led by a doctor who had been critical of the league’s efforts. The study involved doctors from Boston University. To address this criticism, the league will establish an “independent, scientific advisory board” that includes doctors, scientists and clinicians “to engage in a clear process to identify and support the most compelling proposals for scientific research into concussions, head injuries and their   effects,” the letter said. The board will have up to seven members, whose names will be announced by the end of the month. It will focus predominantly on neuroscientists and those with experience in the scientific grant process. The N. F. L. has also spent $14 million of the $30 million it pledged to the National Institutes of Health. The league will also hire a chief medical officer to work full time with its medical staff, medical committees at the N. F. L. and the N. F. L. Players Association and the broader scientific and medical communities. Still, fundamental questions remain about the N. F. L. ’s approach and the game of football itself. The league, for instance, has invested money in companies that are trying to design a safer helmet, and its new initiative includes investing to find “design solutions. ” Yet doctors contend that helmets, which are designed primarily to prevent skull fractures, do little to reduce concussions and   medical problems associated with repeated head blows. The league said Wednesday that $40 million would be spent on research in the next five years “to examine the   effects of concussion, the incidence and prevalence of chronic traumatic encephalopathy and what can be done to improve   player health. ”