MIAMI  —   Donald J. Trump once again raised the specter of violence against Hillary Clinton, suggesting Friday that the Secret Service agents who guard her voluntarily disarm to “see what happens to her” without their protection. “I think that her bodyguards should drop all weapons,” Mr. Trump said at a rally in Miami, to loud applause. “I think they should disarm. Immediately. ” He went on: “Let’s see what happens to her. Take their guns away, O. K. It’ll be very dangerous. ” In justifying his remarks, Mr. Trump falsely claimed that Mrs. Clinton wants to “destroy your Second Amendment,” apparently a reference to her gun control policies. Presidential nominees are protected at all times by heavily armed teams of Secret Service agents, some uniformed and some undercover, who are devoted to the candidates’ physical safety. Mr. Trump’s comments were a provocative echo of widely condemned remarks he made in early August at a campaign rally in Wilmington, N. C. There, he airily suggested that gun rights supporters should rise up against Mrs. Clinton if she were elected to stop her from appointing judges who might favor stricter gun regulation. “If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks,” Mr. Trump said, as the crowd began to boo. He quickly added, “Although the Second Amendment people  —   maybe there is, I don’t know. ” Those remarks were widely interpreted as an invitation for   supporters to take matters into their own hands should Mrs. Clinton prevail in November’s election. Mr. Trump never apologized or disavowed the comments, despite angry denunciations from Mrs. Clinton’s running mate, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, and groups like the Brady Campaign and the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Friday night, Robby Mook, her campaign manager, said after Mr. Trump’s rally in Miami that he had shown “a pattern of inciting people to violence. ” “Whether this is done to provoke protesters at a rally or casually or even as a joke, it is an unacceptable quality in anyone seeking the job of commander in chief,” Mr. Mook said in a statement. “This kind of talk should be out of bounds for a presidential candidate. ” Matt Bennett, a vice president at Third Way, a think tank that advocates gun control, expressed disbelief at Mr. Trump’s “cavalier disregard for the safety” of Mrs. Clinton. “No serious gun rights person believes that a Secret Service protectee should have their protection taken away,” Mr. Bennett said. It was the culmination of a rocky and unpredictable day for Mr. Trump, and diverted attention, for a moment at least, from his grudging admission of error when he finally conceded that President Obama was born in the United States. On Friday night, breaking from his prepared remarks and turning his gaze from the teleprompters, Mr. Trump looked straight into the crowd as he made the insinuation about Mrs. Clinton’s safety. He gestured emphatically with his hands as he spoke, at one time pointing to a member in the crowd to find agreement. “What do you think?” he asked about his remarks on Mrs. Clinton’s bodyguards, as the arena erupted into cheers. In May, Mr. Trump accused Mrs. Clinton in a Twitter post of hypocrisy for accepting armed Secret Service protection while supporting some limits on access to weapons for civilians. That post also levied a false accusation against Mrs. Clinton, suggesting she supported a ban on all guns. She does not. “Crooked Hillary wants to get rid of all guns and yet she is surrounded by bodyguards who are fully armed,” Mr. Trump wrote. “No more guns to protect Hillary!” he added, although he did not go so far as to say what could happen if such protection were to be removed. Violence and allusions to it have punctuated Mr. Trump’s campaign: Punches have been thrown at his rallies, protesters have been roughed up by Trump supporters, and the candidate himself has repeatedly deployed a lexicon of physical aggression. “I’d like to punch him in the face,” Mr. Trump said in February when a protester was dragged out of his rally in Las Vegas. In the past, Mr. Trump has sought to distance himself from his own menacing remarks by later dismissing them as playful or misinterpreted. His Republican supporters, meanwhile, have been pressed after every remark to distance themselves from him. On Friday night, officials of the Republican National Committee, which is working to help his campaign, did not respond to a request for comment. Mr. Trump’s comments were a variation on criticisms made by the National Rifle Association, perhaps Mr. Trump’s closest political ally in the presidential race. The group has publicly criticized Secret Service protection for Mr. Obama’s two daughters, which is required under federal law, as hypocritical. In 2013, the group released an advertisement calling Mr. Obama “an elitist hypocrite” for allowing the service to protect his family  —   which, like other first families, has faced multiple death threats  —   but opposing the widespread use of armed guards in schools.