CHICAGO  —   In a spacious room on the fourth floor of a rehabilitation hospital, Stacey Turner talked to her only daughter, Precious Land, as if she could understand every word. She styled Ms. Land’s hair, massaged her hands and set out to paint her fingernails. The only sound was the whirring of a ventilator. Then the phone rang, and Ms. Turner became exuberant. After hanging up, she leaned down to kiss her daughter’s face and share the good news. “You’re coming home, baby,” she told Ms. Land, who was covered by a blue   blanket that stretched from the tracheotomy tube in her throat to the padded boots on her feet. “You hear that, girl? You’re coming home. ” More than three months had passed since Ms. Land had walked, talked or hugged her children  —   more than three months since a bullet from an unknown gunman was fired at the car she was driving just a block from her house, severing her spine and interrupting blood flow to her brain. Ms. Land was among 64 people shot in Chicago over Memorial Day weekend, when journalists for The New York Times fanned out across the city to record a steep rise in violence. Six of those victims died, including a teenage girl fatally wounded on Lake Shore Drive and a railroad worker shot dead in a car on a quiet street. The 58 survivors, including Ms. Land, were mostly left to languish in anonymity. Ms. Land was 26, a working mother who the Chicago police said had no criminal record. Doctors do not expect her to recover. And as with most of the shootings in Chicago so far this year, her case remains unsolved. Ms. Turner, 47, had gone that August morning to visit her daughter at the rehab hospital on the city’s West Side, a trek she made almost every day. But she was thinking ahead. She had ideas, plans. They started with Ms. Land coming home. For weeks, Ms. Land, paralyzed and comatose, had been on the verge of leaving rehab and returning to the brick,   house where she lived with her children and her mother. Once in that setting again, Ms. Turner believed, Ms. Land just might wake up. To prepare for her daughter’s arrival, Ms. Turner converted her own bedroom into a makeshift hospital room with a mechanized bed and a ventilator. There were new linens and artwork purchased at Dollar General. A hall closet was stocked with feeding tube meals, bandages and tracheotomy supplies. But since   one planned moving date after another had slipped by. Each time, there was a reason: The doctor had not signed off the specialized bed had not been delivered Ms. Land’s blood platelet levels were too low. Ms. Turner was disappointed each time, so she instructed the rehab center staff not to call her until everything was finalized, and the only step remaining was to put Ms. Land in the ambulance for the ride home. Finally, she was told, that time had come. An employee from the home health care company arrived at the rehab center to help pack Ms. Land’s equipment into a purple tote bag. But just as the move seemed imminent, the plans began to fall apart. The doctor had not signed off on her departure and was not responding to phone calls. And there was uncertainty about what Ms. Land should be fed. The morning faded into afternoon. Before long, the purple tote bag was unpacked and the equipment placed back on the shelf. Ms. Land was not going home that day. Maybe next week, Ms. Turner was told. “Same thing as last time,” Ms. Turner said, the smile she wore an hour earlier wiped from her face. “They did it to me again. ” May 28 was a warm Saturday night midway through the Memorial Day weekend. For many in Chicago, it was a time for barbecues and celebration, the unofficial start of summer in a city known for   music festivals and baseball games. But in the West Garfield Park community, a place of few businesses but many   lots, Memorial Day denoted the start of peak shooting season. More people are murdered in Chicago than in any other American city, the bloodshed overwhelmingly concentrated near West Garfield Park and a handful of other neighborhoods on the South and West Sides. Some expect the city to eclipse 600 murders in 2016, perhaps more than in New York and Los Angeles combined. That May evening, Ms. Land dropped off her children  —   Daveon, Tyreanna and Timia Kirkman, and Jimarrion Williams  —   a few blocks away to play at the house of a family friend. Then she began the short drive home, steering her car onto West Lexington Street, a   dotted with churches and modest houses. When she was just a block from her doorstep, gunfire sounded. A bullet pierced a tinted side window of Ms. Land’s black Pontiac Grand Prix, slicing through her neck and lodging behind her shoulder. An ambulance rushed to the scene. Police officers and journalists went, too. One television reporter told his viewers that the nameless victim had died. He was wrong. As the evening grew darker, Ms. Turner started to worry. Her daughter should have been home by then. More than an hour passed, and Ms. Turner got a call to pick up Jimarrion, who had grown restless at the friend’s house. On her way to retrieve him, Ms. Turner saw police cars blocking traffic on Lexington and was forced to take a detour. Someone had been shot, she assumed, a sad but ordinary event here. Ms. Turner had already lost a child to Chicago’s violence. A son, Anthony Jackson, known as “Pierrie,” was shot to death on Nov. 15, 2014. He was 22 years old, and had a son of his own. Mr. Jackson had planned to help his mother clean the house on the day he died. “Twenty minutes later, my phone is ringing, people saying Pierrie is dead,” Ms. Turner recalled. “And I’m like, ‘He just left out the house. ’” His burial fell on Ms. Turner’s birthday, which she no longer celebrates. Ms. Turner had long worried about a violent end for her son, who she said was in a gang. But Ms. Land was different, family and friends said. She was a homebody and a hard worker. When she was not at work, she doted on her children and watched “General Hospital” with her mother. She was a bit of a loner, but had an infectious laugh and was never shy about speaking her mind. Born here on the West Side, at the same hospital she was taken to by ambulance after she was shot, she had spent her whole life in Chicago. At 15, she became pregnant. “Then she got pregnant again with Tyreanna two years later, then Timia a year later, then Jimarrion a year later,” her mother said. She left high school to care for her children, then later enrolled at an alternative school but never graduated. But she managed to stay out of trouble in a neighborhood brimming with crime. Instead, Ms. Land gravitated to work, holding a series of hourly jobs. Early this year, relatives said, she took a job with a company near O’Hare International Airport, where she helped prepare meals for   flights. She enjoyed the work, rising early for the 4 a. m. shift and picking up extra hours whenever she could. Ms. Land was the family breadwinner, while Ms. Turner, a longtime nursing assistant, stayed home with the children. These days, the loss of a steady pay check weighs heavily on Ms. Turner’s mind. After the death of Mr. Jackson, Ms. Turner said, Ms. Land “totally changed. ” “She got paranoid,” Ms. Turner went on. “She didn’t like to go outside. She didn’t like to sit out front. She always sat out back. ” For all Ms. Land’s caution, Ms. Turner questioned her decision last winter to start driving an old Grand Prix. The car was more functional than flashy, and would blend in at any suburban parking lot. But here on the West Side, Ms. Turner said, the black sedan projected an unintentional message that put her daughter at risk. “Gangbangers, these guys, ride around in these cars,” Ms. Turner said. “A young woman shouldn’t be in a car like that. ” On that May night, the Grand Prix sat behind crime scene tape. A few hours elapsed, the sun set, and only one police car was left. Ms. Turner still did not know why her daughter was not home. Then, a woman knocked on her window: Precious had been shot. In a daze, Ms. Turner raced down the block. She saw the bullet hole in the window of her daughter’s Pontiac. She sobbed and rushed to the hospital. There was no prayer circle for Precious Land, no profile of her on the front page of the newspaper, no statements of outrage from City Hall. In three months, a Gofundme page raising money to relocate Ms. Land’s family drew just $200 of its $50, 000 goal in donations. Only one local news outlet identified Ms. Land by name. The truth is this: In a city that averages almost two murders a day  —   502 so far this year  —   a collective numbness has settled in, and there is rarely much attention left over for the thousands of Chicagoans who survive their gunshot wounds. Ms. Turner worries that it is not just her neighbors and the news media who have forgotten about her daughter, but perhaps also the police. As the weeks passed, Ms. Turner said, she still did not hear anything about the investigation or speak to a detective. She wants to help officers find the gunman. She wants the person who pulled the trigger to go to prison. But she worries that Ms. Land, one of 3, 030 people shot in Chicago this year, has become just another case in an overwhelmed police district where murders have increased about 75 percent this year over 2015. Finally, two months after the shooting, a detective met one of Ms. Land’s relatives by coincidence and called Ms. Turner to say they were working on the case. A police spokesman later told The Times that detectives had left several voice mail messages for Ms. Turner in the weeks after the shooting, but had not heard back from her. Ms. Turner said she received no such messages. At one point, the police also said they had conducted a “comprehensive interview” with Ms. Land, something doctors say would have been impossible since she has been in a coma. Later, a department spokesman corrected himself and said that there had been no interview of Ms. Land, but that the police had gathered “community intelligence” and were optimistic about solving the case. By early September, Ms. Turner said she had still not seen a detective in person. “I guess they see so many shootings and they all think they’re gang related,” Ms. Turner said. “I don’t fault them. But you know, at least come see me so y’all can know that my daughter is not this type of person. ” Ms. Land’s elder son, Daveon, an    swimming enthusiast now in the sixth grade, said his mother was fun but careful she made sure her children avoided the park down the block. When asked why, Daveon said    “They be shooting. ” Ms. Turner said her grandson struggled to understand how this could have happened to his mother, and now meets regularly with a counselor. “He’s very angry,” Ms. Turner said. With the new school year approaching, Daveon paid only his second visit to the rehab center. This time, he stayed in the room instead of darting out in tears. Seeing his mother left him shaken, but Daveon said it only reaffirmed his goal of one day becoming a Chicago police officer. Why that career? “They help people and save people,” he said. Ms. Turner is hoping for a miracle. She does not go to church anymore  —   she hasn’t for years  —   but she believes God is watching her daughter. At Mount Sinai Hospital, Ms. Land’s heart stopped twice that first night. Both times, doctors revived her. Ms. Turner believes there was a reason. But since then there has been one bit of bad news after another. First, Ms. Turner learned about her daughter’s paralysis. Then doctors said that her daughter had suffered irreversible neurological damage from the interrupted blood flow to her brain stem. A few days after the shooting, Ms. Turner’s phone rang before sunrise, and a nurse told her that her daughter’s heart had stopped again. She asked whether staff members should continue trying to revive Ms. Land. Of course, Ms. Turner responded. “I hop out of the bed, didn’t tell anybody, got in the car,” Ms. Turner said. “That was at 4 o’clock. I pulled in front of Mount Sinai at 4:06. They said, ‘We got her back.’ They got her heart back, but she wasn’t back. ” Cases like Ms. Land’s are tragically routine at Mount Sinai and Chicago’s other trauma hospitals. Gunshot victims arrive almost every day. For patients like Ms. Land, costs can multiply and continue for years so can the toll on loved ones. “It’s much easier to go out and tell somebody their family member died than it is to tell them they have ‘survived’ but are never going to wake up and are never going to be functional again and are forever going to be in the state they’re going to see them,” said Dr. Gary Merlotti, chairman of Mount Sinai’s surgery department. “At least there’s some finality to death, and healing can begin after the grieving process. ” For weeks, doctors at Mount Sinai treated Ms. Land. But her condition remained largely unchanged, and they saw little hope for her recovery. “She is in, if I can be crass, a   condition: She will die as a result of this injury,” Dr. Merlotti said later in an interview. “The death is going to be a result of infections that come from having had a tube in her throat to breathe, from having to have a tube in her bladder to drain urine, from getting bed sores. Eventually, she’s going to succumb to this injury. ” But when doctors took Ms. Turner into a meeting room to deliver that news and ask if she wanted to discontinue life support, she was aghast. Death is God’s decision alone, she said later. “Oh my God, I went crazy,” Ms. Turner said. “I mean, I went nuts. I’m like, ‘Hell no. I am a fighter. My daughter’s a fighter. And we’re going to fight. Her heart is still beating.’ “I told them no, and I walked out. ” Ms. Land spent her 27th birthday in the hospital on June 11, with family at her bedside. After a few weeks, she was moved to RML Specialty Hospital, the rehab center. Ms. Turner began a routine of enduring sweltering heat on dangerous streets to make the   walk to visit. Ms. Turner had kind words to say about the rehab center workers, but she prefers to care for Ms. Land herself. She went to classes on how to care for her daughter at home, though she says it was mostly a review from her career as a nursing assistant. She is determined to get her daughter home. “I cry at night,” Ms. Turner said during a visit to her daughter’s bedside. “Nobody knows. I have to keep myself strong for these kids. ” Keeping them occupied all summer had been a challenge. But finally, for the three youngest children, it was the first full day of school. The morning began at 6 a. m. Ms. Turner, wearing pink fleece pajamas with images of frogs, had arranged each child’s school uniform  —   a blue shirt and khaki bottoms  —   on a kitchen chair. The girls, Tyreanna, 9, and Timia, 7, emerged from the bathroom first, looking weary but ready. Then Jimarrion, 6, who was starting the first grade, lumbered out of his bedroom. Ms. Turner fixed the girls’ hair, tying it off with gold ribbons they picked out themselves. Jimarrion struggled to stay awake. The preparations were interrupted when the local television newscast playing in the background shifted to a story about a girl shot on the West Side. The child had been attending a memorial for another shooting victim August would prove to be the city’s deadliest month in about two decades. “Another    kid got shot at a vigil for a  ” Ms. Turner said as her grandchildren stared at the TV screen. “It’s crazy. ” Ms. Turner had little time to dwell on it. “I’m going to get your shoes,” she said as she lined up three new backpacks. Ms. Turner has spent her whole life on the West Side, but she yearns to move to the suburbs, where some of her relatives have escaped the city’s violence. “I’m moving where the white people are at,” she said. “There’s no crime. You can go to the store. ” Staying on Lexington Street has been trying. “I cannot stay here,” Ms. Turner said. “I’m very uncomfortable that my baby got hurt down the street. ” But finding a   apartment in a safe suburb on her budget is difficult. For the moment, Ms. Turner has little choice but to stay on the West Side. There was a knock on the window, and Tyreanna, Timia and Jimarrion ran out to where a family friend had pulled up in a minivan. Ms. Turner rode the mile with them to their charter school on a quiet residential block. Outside, teachers greeted children and parents by name. Ms. Turner, a decade or two older than most of the other adults, inched through the crowd with her grandchildren, toward the entrance. Back when things were normal, just three months earlier, Ms. Land would be checking up on homework assignments and helping, on the days she was not at work, to manage the morning chaos. “Usually, the kids will be yelling,” Ms. Turner said. “I’ll be screaming and hollering. Precious will be screaming and hollering. ” Ms. Turner longed to hear that voice again, or to at least have her daughter back home. But for now, all she could do was wait.