The Las Vegas billionaire Sheldon G. Adelson and his wife are giving more than $40 million to groups backing Republican congressional candidates, according to campaign filings and interviews with Republican strategists, disregarding repeated entreaties for support from allies of Donald J. Trump and dealing a major setback to Mr. Trump’s efforts to rally the   Republican givers. The contributions will again make Mr. Adelson and his family among the largest known donors in American politics, after several years in which they played a more subdued role in national Republican  . But Mr. Adelson’s decision to deploy his wealth down ballot, less than two months before Election Day, also reflects the reluctance of most of the biggest Republican donors to invest in their party’s  . Mr. Adelson once dangled the possibility of giving as much as $100 million to   groups, an infusion that at a stroke would have made the groups financially competitive against Hillary Clinton. But in recent weeks, the mercurial casino magnate  —   who entertained but ultimately rebuffed pitches from an array of Republican candidates during the party’s nominating contest this election cycle  —   became convinced that Mr. Trump’s chances of victory had diminished, according to Republicans briefed on his decision. The Adelson family’s biggest contributions are going instead to two “super PACs” backing Senate and House Republicans, each of which will get $20 million, making Mr. Adelson the single largest known donor to political organizations in the country. Mr. Adelson also gave $1. 5 million in August to a super PAC backing Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire. Mr. Trump is already raising far less money directly for his campaign than Mrs. Clinton is raising for hers, taking in $42 million in August compared with her $59 million. Now he is also heading toward Nov. 8 with relatively limited financial help from super PACs and outside groups that can accept unlimited contributions from rich donors. Groups supporting Mr. Trump have aired just $12 million in broadcast advertising, according to the Campaign Media Analysis Group. Mrs. Clinton’s allies, buoyed by a sharp increase in giving by wealthy liberals on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley, are expected to spend at least $160 million by Election Day. “If you want to help that Senate candidate or that gubernatorial candidate, the best way we could have done it was to nominate any of the other people who were running,” said Douglas Heye, a former adviser to House Republicans. “That’s not the reality of the world right now. The best way to do that now is to help that campaign directly. ” Two Republicans with knowledge of his giving said that Mr. Adelson was allocating a far smaller sum, $5 million, to benefit the top of the Republican ticket: token support by Mr. Adelson’s standards. And in a striking move, the money will go not to any of the   super PACs but to organizations controlled by a fellow billionaire, Joe Ricketts, a Wyoming investor, whose own political operation will decide how to spend it. The Ricketts family spent millions of dollars during the primaries to defeat Mr. Trump, who responded with a Twitter message that the Rickettses “better be careful, they have a lot to hide!” A spokesman for Mr. Adelson declined to comment. “Everyone reached out to him. He promised $100 million,” said Ed Rollins, an adviser to Great America, one of several outside groups supporting Mr. Trump. “At this point in time, he’s like everyone else. Now he’s going to be a player, just not to the same extent. ” Mr. Trump’s efforts have been hampered in part by confusion: There are at least three competing super PACs supporting him. One is controlled and chiefly funded by the New York billionaire Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebekah Mercer, who have close ties to Mr. Trump’s campaign team. Two others, Great America PAC and Rebuild America Now, are controlled by rival teams of consultants, but each has received a blessing of sorts from the Trump family. Mr. Trump’s son Eric appeared at a   this month for Great America, while another son, Donald Jr. was the special guest at an event for Rebuild America Now less than a week later. While Mr. Trump has enjoyed success for a Republican presidential candidate in raising small contributions, the same qualities that have fired up his   supporters have turned off many wealthier Republican contributors, making it difficult for both Mr. Trump and the Republican National Committee to keep pace among larger donors. Mr. Adelson at one point appeared to be the biggest potential backer in Mr. Trump’s corner. This spring, he published an   article endorsing Mr. Trump and urging other Republicans to get behind him, and in August he donated $1. 5 million to the Republican convention, where Mr. Trump was formally nominated in July. But in the months since, Mr. Trump has shrugged off private pleas from Mr. Adelson and others within his party to modulate his tone and message against Mrs. Clinton. Those issues came to a head at a meeting this month of major conservative donors convened by the billionaire hedge fund executive Paul Singer, a resolute Trump opponent who has opined that Mr. Trump’s campaign proposals would cause a “widespread global depression” if enacted. Representatives of the Ricketts family, the Senate Leadership Fund and Americans for Prosperity, the political organization overseen by the billionaire industrialists David H. and Charles G. Koch, were among those pitching donors at the meeting. So was the Republican National Committee chairman, Reince Priebus, who told donors that he needed to raise another $60 million to $70 million to support the party and Mr. Trump through Nov. 8. According to a person who attended, Mr. Priebus urged donors to view the Republican slate as a package and argued that supporting Mr. Trump would help   races. But the Kochs’ political organization, backed by an overlapping group of large conservative donors, is so far steering clear of the presidential race and focusing its efforts on the House and Senate. And some of the top Republican donors in the country have now, like Mr. Adelson, given to the Koch organization or the Senate Leadership Fund, according to Tuesday’s filings. These donors include Mr. Singer, the Chicago hedge fund billionaire Ken Griffin, and a company controlled by Frank L. VanderSloot, a prominent Idaho businessman. Mr. Adelson’s $5 million will go to yet another group, called Future45, which was set up and funded last year by the Ricketts family, Mr. Singer and Mr. Griffin to test lines of attack against Mrs. Clinton. Future45 and a sister nonprofit group, now being run solely by Mr. Ricketts’s team, are hoping to raise more than $25 million. The Ricketts family has provided $1 million, according to a Republican strategist involved in the effort. The hope is that a round of fall advertising aimed at Mrs. Clinton could help soften her support in states that also feature competitive House and Senate races, aiding Republican candidates in those contests. The Wall Street Journal first reported details of the group’s new direction on Tuesday. “The Ricketts are committed to helping Republicans win up and down the ballot this fall, including   and every other Republican candidate up and down the ballot,” said Brian Baker, a spokesman for the family. Mr. Adelson, whose fortune is estimated at almost $32 billion, could easily afford to spend more for Mr. Trump in the weeks ahead. But Mr. Adelson and other donors are rapidly running out of time to have an effect on the race. Even his contributions to Republican congressional efforts are coming late in the game, when the price of advertising is climbing drastically and there are fewer undecided voters to persuade. In part to mitigate those costs, the Senate Leadership Fund reserved $40 million in fall advertising in June, before the cash was available to pay for it. Democratic groups, meanwhile, are enjoying success in persuading rich donors and unions to pour money into super PACs, bolstered by Mrs. Clinton’s warm relationships with wealthy donors in her party. Through the start of September, according to Federal Election Commission filings, the lead   group, Priorities USA Action, had raised $13 million from S. Donald Sussman, a wealthy financier, and $9. 5 million from the retired hedge fund billionaire George Soros. S. Daniel Abraham, the billionaire founder of SlimFast, has contributed $9 million to the group. The entertainment executive Haim Saban and his wife, Cheryl, have contributed $10 million, according to federal records. Other outside Democratic groups are also intensifying their efforts for the final weeks before the election, focusing on   outreach rather than television advertising. Tom Steyer, the billionaire environmentalist, said in an interview on Tuesday that he was pouring another $15 million into For Our Future, a joint super PAC he is running with several labor unions. The group is spending money in seven swing states, chiefly on field organizing and voter mobilization. It aims to knock on eight million doors between now and the election. “We believe that that form of communication is the way to actually engage people,” Mr. Steyer said.