Still no sign of them. Two days after the release of an image that investigators said showed two men who had come upon a suitcase containing an unexploded bomb on a Manhattan street, the authorities said on Friday that their identities and whereabouts remained unknown. Investigators said they considered the men to be witnesses, and wanted to talk to them as part of their effort to piece together the events of last Saturday, when bombs exploded in Seaside Park, N. J. and on West 23rd Street in Manhattan. Several unexploded bombs were found elsewhere, including the one in the suitcase, which was found on West 27th Street a few hours after the bomb went off four blocks away, and five others, which turned up late on Sunday near a train station in Elizabeth, N. J. After coming upon the abandoned suitcase on 27th Street, the men discovered a plastic bag inside containing a pressure cooker that had been fashioned into a bomb. They set the bag on the sidewalk and left with the suitcase. The suspect in the bombings, Ahmad Khan Rahami, was arrested just hours after authorities released a photograph of him on Monday morning. By Tuesday night, federal prosecutors had charged him with several crimes connected to the bombings. The New York Police Department has thus far been unable to identify or find the two men. “We know nothing about them at this point,” a spokesman for the department said. The two have not been charged with any crimes, and the authorities said this week that their handling of the device might actually have disabled it. One possibility among many that investigators have discussed is that the men were tourists and may have already left the country. What remains are the images of the two, crystallized in time. In the photo distributed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, they can be seen walking along 27th Street between Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue between 8 and 9 p. m. on Saturday, around the time of the 23rd Street explosion. One of the men is wearing a   polo shirt the other appears to be holding an object in one hand. Their postures suggest a shared sense of calm.