 (CNN) Welcome to the first of April. It’s like Super Bowl Sunday for dad jokes, a day when we can all wake up, fire up the internet, and sigh a collective groan at the barrage of   pranks, tall tales and PR stunts conjured up by desperate media companies and junior brand creatives across the world. We’ll be here as long as we can take it today,   ourselves into oblivion as we catalog the good, the bad and the ugly of April Fools’ Day 2015. If you see anything worth mentioning, let us know in the comments.   eats his way across Google Maps, Google, the merry prankster of    corporate Web behemoths, has announced that you can now play   on Google Maps. Open a map in your browser, click the blue and black square in the bottom left of your screen, and before you know it, it’ll be lunchtime. Your UberBOAT is arriving, Why dart through the streets of your city in a Prius when you can take to the high seas? The dream has (very nearly) (not really) become reality in Thailand, where Uber will be piloting a program allowing users to hitch a ride on boats ”on the streets of Bangkok” ahead of the rainy season.  The cutting edge of technology, Samsung has announced this year’s   kitchen accessory    the Galaxy BLADE edge, ”the world’s first smart knife with smartphone capabilities,” according to the phonemaker. The   apparently features ”a   diamond edge, tough enough to cut through a lobster tail and sharp enough to slice though tender heirloom tomatoes.” It’s probably still not as good as an iPhone. James Corden gets punked, The new ”Late Late Show” host welcomes TV journalist Katie Couric, who enjoys a big laugh at his expense.  ”May the Force be with EU” Even scientists    scientists!    are getting in on the ”fun.” CERN researchers have used the Large Hadron Collider to smash together two of the world’s favorite things    Star Wars and April Fools’ pranks    in a press release confirming the discovery of The Force. CERN theorist Ben Kenobi has claimed that The Force is what binds the galaxy together, but   researcher Dave Vader (make it stop) dismissed the revelation with the quip ”Asteroids do not concern me.” Putin, Poroshenko to take this outside, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko has thrown down the gauntlet to Vladimir Putin, challenging the Russian leader to a   judo match to settle the future of eastern Ukraine, The Economist has reported. When reached for comment, a spokesman for Angela Merkel reportedly said: ”Bring it on.” Jeremy Clarkson’s ”  call”  It’s been a rough few weeks for Jeremy Clarkson, the former ”Top Gear” host who was sacked by the BBC for his ”fracas” with a producer.  Now, following what he has described as a ”dark night of the soul,” the former star of the world’s most popular car show has decided to dedicate his life to sustainable energy, throwing his weight behind The Guardian’s campaign for fossil fuel divestment. BMW’s Motor Mouth, BMW has announced the launch of a series mouth guards offering rugby players ”the same impact protection as our drivers.” The German car company says: ”The interior of the guard uses tyre tread technology and grips accordingly, while the BMW signature kidney grille lies between the front incisors acting as an elegant respiration vent.” Honda: The Selfie Edition, In perhaps the most inevitable development of the day, Honda has announced the     Selfie Edition. The hybrid combines two of American millenials’ favorite things    taking selfies and signing   expensive car leases that  will cripple their financial future for years to come. Honda says: ”With 10 cameras across the interior and exterior, the   Selfie Edition allows drivers to snap   while the car is in park.” A leg up on the competition, You and your   not already annoying enough? Why not get on the waiting list for the Selfie Shoes, the brainchild of something called Miz Mooz, which says it understands ”the importance of looking great without giving up the comfort our women    have come to love about our footwear.” ”Just insert your phone into the port at the front of either your right or left shoe, raise it to the perfect angle and click the internal button with a tap of your toe to take the photo.”  Finally, It was only a matter of time, really. If you live in the UK you will finally be able to carry Simon Cowell around with you in your pocket after the music mogul topped a poll of celebrities Brits would like to see on banknotes, The Sun has reported. The   ”American Idol” and ” ” judge will finally take his rightful place alongside the Queen, Charles Darwin and Adam Smith    other great British people who have their faces emblazoned on money.  #BransontoBranson, Virgin founder Richard Branson    never one to pass up a PR opportunity    got the party started a day early with his announcement that the British company’s U. S. operations would move to the heartland city of Branson, Missouri. He claimed Virgin would name its latest plane ”Jolene” in honor of the song by Dolly Parton    the town’s most famous celebrity    and that his water filtration business, Virgin Pure, would   the town’s water so he can ”enjoy the perfect cup of tea” whenever he’s in town. (It may actually) eat your heart out, Ever wanted to spend an evening with a vicious, occasionally   beast of the wild? Get yourself over to London’s first   hippo cafe, where you can dine with two baby pygmy hippos named George and Bungle    from Switzerland, no less    according to the Happy Hippo Cafe. ”Watch the hippos being fed at dusk by their handlers and then stay to take part in the nightly Hungry Hungry Hippo tournaments, while enjoying drinks and snacks,” the website says.  Bounce your way to loyalty points, Tesco has revolutionized the supermarket shopping experience once again (in a good way for once, hopefully) by introducing ”trampoline inspired bouncy aisles” to help you shorties reach the top shelves, Daisy O’Farllop (get it?) Director of Aisle Operations at Tesco, told the Retail Gazette. We’re actually quite into this idea.  Qatar to win Euro 2020?  Following up on their rather uncontroversial awarding of the 2022 World Cup, Qatar will be invited to qualify for the 2020 European football championships to help the country develop a footballing culture, The Daily Telegraph has reported. FIFA President Sepp Blatter has  personally proposed that the tiny Gulf state join qualification for Euro 2020 to provide European teams a chance to ”get to know” their 2022 hosts better. Tower of Pisa to be turned into hotel, The fine people of The Telegraph must have a lot of time on their hands, for it appears that Italian officials are taking heat over their plan to raise money by turning the Leaning Tower of Pisa into a luxury hotel. The proposal for the hotel    to be called 3. 99 Degrees    suggests each floor be turned into a single room with a   view named after a hero of the Italian renaissance, The Telegraph has reported. ’Hunchback University’ The Independent has reported that The University of Leicester will change its name to King Richard University to capitalize on the publicity surrounding the discovery and reburial of the bones of Richard III. The student bar will be renamed ”Carnage@Bosworth” and the name of administrative building will be changed to Hunchback House, according to the report. (Editor’s note: If you’d like some real Richard III news, head here). The rare April Fools’   April Fools’ Day pranks don’t always have to end with a groan    and for one woman in New Zealand, it actually ended with a new car.  A dealership in New Zealand put an ad in the paper claiming that the first person to come in and ”ask for Tom” would be able to swap their old car for a new BMW. Tiaana Marsh did just that, and . .. you can guess what happened from there.    Wait a second    why do we even do this? Ever wondered why you spent your entire day reading nonsense from the four corners of the Web? Here’s why, in two minutes. You’re welcome.