 (CNN) I’m an atheist, a libertarian and I’m in favor of many, many, many kinds of sex. This puts me in an awkward position with all this chitter chatter about that goofy Indiana law. People want the right to not serve people because their   loving religion demands that to get into heaven they not make cake for people who are gay. I’ve read the Bible cover to cover, and I’ve never seen that in there, but, I’m an atheist, so I may have scales over my eyes while I read    what do I know?   I was listening to some whack job (I should say some other whack job, because I was on the same TV panel) talk about how some Christians might not think gay sex was right and needed the legal right to act on that belief. It’s OK to not like some forms of sex. I’m sure there’s some form of sex that I don’t like, I just haven’t encountered it yet. If anyone invites me to a kind of sex I don’t want    I will say no . .. at least after I’ve tried it a couple times.   Indiana governor signs ’fix’ for religious freedom law, My job is doing a Vegas magic show.  I bet if I really researched all the people in our audiences, I would find people in our crowds who I had fundamental disagreements with. I would still want to do the show for them. That’s my job. I’m trying to sell about a quarter of a million tickets a year to Penn  Teller, and that ain’t easy.  I might not agree with Scientologists or chiropractors, but I want them to come to my show. Who knows, just being around us, might wise them up, or even better, might wise me up. I like to change my mind and it’s good business to be in business with people you don’t agree with.   All that being said, as a libertarian, I believe that people have the right to be stupid and run their businesses in a stupid way.  And then the big old invisible hand gets visible and the stupid businesses go out of business. It doesn’t always work, but it often does.   Pizzeria finds itself at the center of religious freedom debate, I don’t think we need a special law that says certain people get to be rude to other people because they think God is on their side, but I also don’t want a law that says I have to do business with people I disagree with if I’m a really stupid business person.   If it seems my position is confusing, it’s because I’m contradicting myself.  I think refusing service to anyone for a theoretical disagreement is stupid, stupid, stupid.  And I also think that if we make stupid illegal, everyone goes to prison.   5 things you haven’t considered about the law, So, I want everyone to be treated equally and I want as much freedom to be stupid as possible.   I’m OK with holding those contrary beliefs and not really deciding, because . .. it’s not going to be a problem for long. The acceptance of LGBT lifestyle is moving so fast that soon some of these backwards people are going to be worried that they’ll need a law to get cake for themselves.  So, yeah, my whole position on this is . .. let them eat cake.   Read CNNOpinion’s new Flipboard magazine, Follow us on Twitter @CNNOpinion. Join us on Facebook. . 