What’s that game they’re playing in the park in Finland? It looks an awful lot like baseball. There are nine players in the field. A ball is being hit with a bat, and the batter is running around the bases. Fielders are trying to catch the ball and retire the runner. Three strikes and you’re out. But wait a minute. The pitcher is standing right next to the batter, and throwing the ball straight up in the air. The bases aren’t in the usual places either. And a blast out of the park isn’t a home run  —   it’s a foul ball. That’s because you’re watching the Finnish game of pesapallo. The similarities to baseball are striking  —   but so are the differences. For one thing, it’s a lot easier to hit a vertical pitch, and batters can have a high degree of control over where and how hard they hit the ball. So the duel between the pitcher and the batter, so crucial in baseball, is   in pesapallo. Instead, bat control and fielding are critical, and both are governed by complex strategy. Managers signal plays using   fans that are  . Other things about pesapallo may seem zany to a fan of the American game. Instead of circling a diamond counterclockwise, pesapallo players run the bases in a zigzag path, starting left to get to first base, then cutting across the infield to second on the right, then left again to third. A player who hits a triple gets credit for scoring a run right away, and can remain on third base to try to score another. Pesapallo was invented in 1920, around the time Babe Ruth was revolutionizing American baseball with his home run hitting, and it has since grown in stature to the point where it is often called Finland’s national game. There are men’s and women’s leagues, and there was even a   scandal in the 1990s. People play pesapallo in other countries, too, including Germany, Sweden, Switzerland and (of all places) Australia, and since 1992, a World Cup has been held every few years. But nobody seems able to beat the Finns at their own game: Of the 21 gold medals awarded so far in various men’s and women’s events, Finland has won them all.