 (CNN) Lindsey Vonn and Tiger Woods announced on Sunday that they are parting ways, citing the strain of their busy schedules. ”After nearly three years together, Tiger and I have mutually decided to end our relationship,” the Alpine skier said in a Facebook post. ”I will always cherish the memories that we’ve created together. Unfortunately, we both lead incredibly hectic lives that force us to spend a majority of our time apart. I will always admire and respect Tiger. He and his beautiful family will always hold a special place in my heart.” Woods confirmed the news in a statement similar to Vonn’s on his website. ”I have great admiration, respect and love for Lindsey and I’ll always cherish our time together. She has been amazing with Sam and Charlie and my entire family,” he said. ”Unfortunately, we lead very hectic lives and are both competing in demanding sports. It’s difficult to spend time together.” And, just like that, the couple ended their relationship in the same awkward manner they made it public: on Facebook. The couple met at a charity event in 2012 and ”immediately clicked,” Vonn told Vogue in 2013. Woods had divorced   Elin Nordegren, with whom he has two children, in 2010, and Vonn divorced her   skier Thomas Vonn in 2012. For months they had a   relationship, Vonn told the magazine, before they made it Facebook official in March 2013. ”I guess it wasn’t a   secret but yes, I am dating Tiger Woods. Our relationship evolved from a friendship into something more over these past few months and it has made me very happy. I don’t plan on addressing this further as I would like to keep that part of my life between us, my family and close friends. Thank you for understanding and your continued support!” Vonn said in a post. Woods also confirmed the development via Facebook. ”This season has been great so far and I’m happy with my wins at Torrey and Doral. Something nice that’s happened off the course was meeting Lindsey Vonn. Lindsey and I have been friends for some time, but over the last few months we have become very close and are now dating. We thank you for your support and for respecting our privacy. We want to continue our relationship, privately, as an ordinary couple and continue to compete as athletes.” The two were spotted together last month at the Masters Tournament in Augusta, Georgia, where Woods made a return to competitive golf after an injury layoff. Vonn was seen on the course with Woods’ son and daughter. Vonn also made a return to the slopes this year after spending much of the last two years recovering from a   knee injury. She credited Woods with helping her through recovery. ”Tiger and I both went through rehab with our injuries at a similar time, so we were both in the gym together and pushing each other and motivating each other, both frustrated,” Vonn told CNN in a November 2014 interview. ”I think we both helped each other a lot through that time, and I drew a lot of inspiration from him and I think he does the same with me.