CHASKA, Minn.  —   The first Ryder Cup singles match on Sunday was not the best singles match on Sunday. That honor belonged to the duel between the old rivals Phil Mickelson and Sergio García, who generated 19 birdies between them without generating a winner. But the first singles match  —   between Patrick Reed and Rory McIlory  —   was no doubt the most important match played at Hazeltine National Golf Club. McIlroy, Europe’s main man, needed to win it in order to lay the brickwork for another improbable comeback on American soil. Reed, now the United States’ main man in the Ryder Cup, needed to win it in order to send a clear and unmistakable message that this time would be different for a team that has been a   punching bag for most of the last 20 years. “It was important to see some red on the board,” said Davis Love III, the American captain who saw far too much blue on a sunny Midwestern Sunday four years ago at Medinah Country Club, where the Europeans came from way behind to beat his team. Reed gave Love what he needed, beating McIlroy,   in a match that sometimes felt closer to M. M. A. than to PGA. But then Reed, a    from San Antonio, comes from a generation raised on demonstrative sports stars, and on wide receivers signaling first down after a catch. He also has none of the scar tissue from that meltdown at Medinah. He was not yet on the squad, and though he was part of the team that lost to McIlroy and the Euros in Gleneagles, Scotland, in his Ryder Cup debut in 2014, this was Reed’s first Ryder Cup at home. He was, to put it mildly, in his element. “Captain America,” said Jordan Spieth, Reed’s fellow millennial and cheerleader in chief at the tournament. Reed has yet to win a major, but there was no evidence of that at Hazeltine as he pumped fist after fist and sank putt after putt and even chipped in for an eagle on Saturday afternoon on No. 6. There was plenty more on Sunday, and the hole that had the most of everything was No. 8. First, McIlroy sank a   birdie putt, celebrated by shaking more than a leaf in a Nor’easter and then cupped a hand to his ear in defiance of the crowd and the pressure. Reed answered by making a   birdie putt of his own from the fringe and then wagged a finger in McIlroy’s direction. At that mutually antagonistic stage, it would have been no great shock to see Team Europe charge the mound. McIlroy instead cracked a smile, and he and Reed were soon exchanging fist bumps and slaps on the back. “It was all played in the right spirit,” McIlroy said later. “Yes, we mocked each other a little bit, but at the same time, it was all in great fun. ” Perhaps Reed should wear a Team U. S. A. golf shirt at the Masters and the United States Open, too. But then there is  —   for now  —   no replicating Ryder Cup atmosphere at any other golf tournament. “Any time I can wear red, white and blue, play for our country and it happens to be match play, it kind of all just fits in,” Reed explained. “Any time I feel like I can go one on one against somebody, it’s something I love to do. ” The Ryder Cup has no prize money no   points no talented Asians or Australians in the mix. But nothing can make grown golfers weep like this biennial exhibition, which was long a mismatch until the continental Europeans joined the British and the Irish in 1979. That expansion was fully supported by American stars like Jack Nicklaus, who was inside the ropes at the tournament. He marveled at what the Ryder Cup has become, with scores of corporate tents and close to 50, 000 fans lining the greens and fairways singing, chanting and cheering from dawn until late afternoon as if this were a different sport altogether. “Can you believe all the people?” Nicklaus said. The setting had a dark side: hecklers who kept interrupting European shot routines and, worse yet, made jokes that were not funny. But it is hard to think that such a grand scene could do anything but good for a sport often seen as too slow and sedate as it struggles to reach the masses, and above all, the younger masses. The Ryder Cup is not only one of the best events in golf. It’s one of the best events in sports, and Reed grabbed it with both hands this year and refused to let it go. This   victory was unquestionably a team effort. All 12 American players scored at least one point, but Reed was the trend setter and, just as important, the tone setter: clamoring for the toughest assignments and disarming the Europeans at their most dangerous. He did so first with Spieth in team play on Friday and Saturday against Europe’s   pairing of Justin Rose and Henrik Stenson, winning two of their three matches. He then did it again all by his lonesome on Sunday against McIlroy, who looked just as pumped up for the occasion as Reed. “All congratulations to Patrick,” McIlroy said. “He was immense this week. ” Reed and McIlroy were collectively immense over a   stretch on the front nine in which nothing but a birdie could keep them in the conversation and was not necessarily enough to win them a hole. McIlroy discovered that the hard way on the   No. 5 when Reed drove the green  —   usually McIlroy’s forte  —   and then made an eagle putt to erase McIlroy’s early   lead. They would then both birdie the next three holes to remain all square, but the transcendence was in the     details that were not to all the elders’ taste. “Come on, Patrick,” said the veteran coach Butch Harmon, working as an analyst for Sky Sports in Britain. “Show some class. ” It was certainly not the way Nicklaus or his old rival Tony Jacklin would have played it, and surely not entirely in the spirit of Arnold Palmer, whose shadow has been long at this tournament in the wake of his death last Sunday night. But all the loud body language on Sunday was, in truth, much more in tune with the modern Ryder Cup, one in which Europe’s emotional leader has been Ian Poulter. Reduced to a vice captain’s and Sunday spectator’s role this year, he was so often a      tormentor of Americans in recent years. Though McIlroy gave it his best shot, Europe ultimately had no one who could replace Poulter’s    intensity. The Americans sure did, though. And though Reed and McIlroy both looked just about punched out as they made their final climb of this Ryder Cup to the 18th green on Sunday, Reed still had enough left to deliver the knockout blow: one last   birdie putt followed by  —   what else?  —   one last double fist pump.