 (CNN) Mike Rowe is taking the bull by the horns (or, at the very least, trying not to get gored) in the season premiere of ”Somebody’s Gotta Do It,” where he tries out niche jobs anywhere from bullfighting to water ballet. Mike Rowe’s ”Somebody’s Gotta Do It”  airs at 9 p. m.   Thursdays on CNN. Each week, Rowe will answer your questions about his latest escapades and career advice. To submit a question for the gutsy host in future weeks, tweet at @CNNOrigSeries with the hashtag #GottaDoIt.  The questions have been edited for brevity and clarity: Laurie Blair: As a high school counselor, what can I do to make career and technical education pathways more attractive to parents who are determined that college is the     answer for their children? Mike Rowe: Fantastic question. You, as you well know, are in a position of extraordinary influence. The fact that you are so focused on wanting to provide balanced advice to your kids makes you an exception, in my experience. I would say, if I remember my own hardheaded nature correctly at 17 years of age, the only truly convincing case to be made involves a person closer to my own age coming in to talk to me and share their firsthand experience. Better yet, if there is any way to get your kids out into the world, and on to an actual job site, do it. In my day, they called those ”field trips.” The bad ones are a waste of time. But the good ones, are life changing. Good luck and give my regards to the kids. Chris Atkins: I just heard an NPR segment about how successful apprenticeship programs are in Germany. They lead to good jobs and a growing middle class. Why can’t we do that here? Rowe: The short answer is because we have convinced ourselves that certain jobs are ”better” than other jobs. Consequently, we have approximately 3 million available opportunities that for whatever reason people aren’t excited about pursuing. You’re right, Germany doesn’t have that problem. But right now, the leader in celebrating the trades is probably Korea. They get it, so much so, that kids who decide to pursue an academic career are often looked at with the same measure of relative sympathy we in the United States apply toward those who pursue a vocational path. Weird, right? Chris Cuomo: How does Mike stay so buff with his busy work schedule? Is there a Mike Rowe action figure? If so will it be a numbered series for collectors? Rowe: There’s only one. It weighs 215 pounds. And it sings a song when you pull the hidden cord. LeAnn Rogers Lewis: My    daughter, who has no career direction, is quitting her   college because she doesn’t want a useless degree and lots of debt. She’s thinking of taking a class or two at a community college. Any words of wisdom for her? Or for me? Rowe: Yes. The best teachers I ever had were in high school and in a community college that I attended for 2½ years. The truth is, good teachers and good schools don’t always go hand in hand. Mostly, I’ll just say good luck and make it a point to read everything. And I mean everything. Henry Winkler told me that years ago when I asked him for advice. And he was so serious about it, I’ll never forget it. To this day, when I’m in the bathroom searching for something to read, I’ll grab the toothpaste tube and read whatever is on the back. I consider that to be a part of my ongoing commitment to continuing education. And hygiene. Glenn Price: One of your parents must do your next ad spot dressed in a Wolf Blitzer costume for a lot of money. Which one would do it for the least money? Rowe: Since my parents insist    to this day    on doing everything together, I suspect they would wrap themselves in a giant Wolf Blitzer costume and go about the business of delivering the news in their unique,   fashion. This of course, is completely untrue, which makes me the little boy who called Wolf Blitzer. Teresa Ann Isaacs: Your parents are great, Mike! Do they realize how many fans they actually have? Are they shocked, or are they flattered? Rowe: To be honest, I have created a monster with two heads. There’s talk of an agent, a manager and a publicist. God help us all. Mitzi Morris Cross: All right, here goes: Who is Mike Rowe? In your own words? Rowe: I am he as you are he as you are me and we are all together. Read the kickoff QA on CNN’s Facebook page and be sure to check back each week to see if your question was answered.