 (CNN)  Cameron Crowe is having a tough week. His critically savaged movie, ”Aloha,” performed poorly in its first weekend in theaters, collecting just $10. 5 million despite a shiny pedigree and a   cast. And now he’s apologizing for what critics are calling the culturally insensitive casting of actress Emma Stone as a   character. ”Thank you so much for all the impassioned comments regarding the casting of the wonderful Emma Stone in the part of Allison Ng,” Crowe wrote in a post on his personal blog. ”I have heard your words and your disappointment, and I offer you a   apology to all who felt this was an odd or misguided casting choice.” The Allison Ng character in the film is a young Air Force pilot in Hawaii with a father who is half Chinese. Ng is proud to be   Hawaiian, a fact she repeats to almost everyone she encounters. But Stone, who grew up in Arizona, apparently has no Chinese or Pacific Islander ancestry. Native Hawaiians, Asian activists and bloggers have criticized the movie    set entirely in Hawaii    for its overwhelmingly white cast, with many singling out Stone’s casting as being especially egregious. ”It’s so typical for Asian or Pacific Islanders to be rendered invisible in stories that we’re supposed to be in, in places that we live,” said Guy Aoki of the Media Action Network for   in an interview with the Huffington Post. ”We’re 60% of the population (in Hawaii). We’d like them to reflect reality.” Crowe, whose films include ”Jerry Maguire” and ”Almost Famous,” said the casting of Stone was not meant to be disrespectful. ”As far back as 2007, Captain Allison Ng was written to be a   ¼ Hawaiian who was frustrated that, by all outward appearances, she looked nothing like one.  A   father was meant to show the surprising mix of cultures often prevalent in Hawaii,” he wrote. ”Extremely proud of her unlikely heritage, she feels personally compelled to   every chance she gets. The character was based on a     local who did just that.” ”Aloha” is a romantic   about a military contractor (Bradley Cooper) who returns to Hawaii to help negotiate the launch of a satellite. While there he reconnects with an old flame (Rachel McAdams) while falling for the young pilot (Stone) assigned to escort him around. The movie was plagued by bad press long before it opened last week. December’s   hack of emails between executives at Sony Pictures Entertainment revealed deep unhappiness with the   film. ”Aloha” has earned a dismal 18% score from critics on   site Rotten Tomatoes. Crowe maintains the movie employed many     and   and that he worked with them to make sure his script was authentic. He also shouldered blame for the movie’s poor reception, and suggested his future casts might include more people of color. ”I am grateful for the dialogue. And from the many voices, loud and small, I have learned something very inspiring,” he wrote. ”So many of us are hungry for stories with more racial diversity, more truth in representation, and I am anxious to help tell those stories in the future.”