The   debate may be in the books, but the   spin goes on. Kellyanne Conway, Donald J. Trump’s campaign manager, accused Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia of having an “obsession” with Mr. Trump. For his part, Mr. Trump, who repeatedly interrupted Hillary Clinton during the first debate, said that Mr. Kaine’s constant interruptions of Mr. Pence should not have been allowed but that his running mate “won big” anyway. Mrs. Clinton’s team seized on Mr. Pence’s strategy of appearing to forget much of what Mr. Trump has said on the campaign trail and criticized Mr. Pence with a video   featuring him denying statements that his running mate has made publicly. While pundits generally agreed that Mr. Pence was the winner of the debate, he was careful on Wednesday not to take too much of the limelight, and he took to Twitter to dispel concerns that he had not sufficiently defended Mr. Trump. The early favorite for most memorable debate moment was Mr. Pence’s use of the phrase “that Mexican thing. ” In a rare moment of frustration at Mr. Kaine’s barrage of attacks on Mr. Trump’s contentious statements on Hispanic immigrants, Mr. Pence shot back, “Senator, you’ve whipped out that Mexican thing again. ” The line #ThatMexicanThing quickly became a popular hashtag on social media, where Mr. Pence was criticized for showing a lack of sensitivity. Mr. Pence went on to make the case that Mr. Trump’s focus has been on immigrants who are in the United States illegally. Recent polls of Ohio voters have shown that the Buckeye State might be slipping away from Mrs. Clinton’s grasp, but a Monmouth University survey released on Wednesday shows that the Democratic nominee still has a chance there. A poll of likely voters showed that 44 percent back Mrs. Clinton and 42 percent support Mr. Trump. Mrs. Clinton had a   advantage in August. (The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 4. 9 percentage points.) After showing signs of struggling in Ohio, it appeared that Mrs. Clinton might be giving up in the crucial swing state. However, she is making another push and plans to campaign with President Obama in Cleveland on Friday. According to the Monmouth poll, she is not doing as well as Mr. Obama did in 2012 with minority voters, so their joint appearance could help her solidify that base of support. The next pivotal moment in the race arrives on Sunday night, when Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton hold their second debate. Republicans have been on edge since Mr. Trump’s uneven first debate and his erratic behavior in the aftermath of that performance. The Times reported on Wednesday evening that Mr. Trump is slipping in several swing state polls and that members of his party could start to distance themselves from him if he falters again on Sunday out of concern that their hopes of maintaining control in Congress could be on shaky ground. Independents, in particular, have been especially turned off by Mr. Trump in the last week and there is growing concern about an exodus of female voters. Mr. Trump has heaped praise on Vladimir V. Putin for months, calling him a strong leader and a potential ally. Mr. Pence struck a different note on Tuesday night, describing the Russian president as a “small and bullying” leader who the United States should not hesitate to confront. The remarks made it appear that the Republican ticket might not be on the same page when it comes to Russian policy, and in an interview Wednesday with CNN, Jason Miller, a spokesman for Mr. Trump, was careful not to shed much light on the campaign’s official line on the matter. “We have to be able to stand up to foreign leaders,” Mr. Miller said. “There’s also no reason why we can’t work with foreign leaders, for example to defeat ISIS. ” New data from Nielsen showed that the   debate drew 37 million television viewers, the smallest audience since Dick Cheney and Joe Lieberman debated in 2000. Although that does not capture people who viewed the proceedings online, it paled when compared to the first presidential debate between Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton. That drew 84 million viewers, according to Nielsen. Mr. Pence and Mr. Kaine are both relatively   candidates who are not overly combative and their showdown lacked the fanfare that the top of the ticket has received. The most watched   debate remains the one from 2008, when Sarah Palin took on then Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. Russia appears to be taking advantage of the period of uncertainty before the American presidential election to deepen its presence in Syria and its support of President Bashar  ’s government.