 (CNN) As if Dave Grohl hadn’t already sealed his place in rock ’n roll history, the Foo Fighters’ front man made a statement Friday after breaking his leg during a concert and returning to finish the show.  During a Foo Fighters’ show Friday night in Gothenburg, Sweden, Grohl hurt himself after falling off the stage, according to social media posts by people at the concert. He then announced to the crowd: ”Now look! I think I just broke my leg. I think I really broke my leg.” A hospital visit after the show confirmed he sustained at least one fracture, forcing the band to cancel two shows    a June 14 appearance at Pinkpop Festival and a June 16 show at the AFG Arena in St. Gallen, Switzerland, the band said on its website. ”As witnessed by tens of thousands in attendance at Foo Fighters’ June 12 show at Ullevi Stadium, Dave Grohl took a nasty spill during the second song of the set. With the help of   medical staff who patched him up temporarily, Dave was able to rejoin the band to complete that performance,” the statement said. After the spill, Grohl told the audience. ”You have my promise, right now, that the Foo Fighters    we’re going to come back    and finish this show.” Grohl then asked drummer Taylor Hawkins to take over for a while.  ”Right now, I’m going to go to the hospital, I’m going to fix my leg, but then I’m going to come back,” Grohl said, as captured in a video shared on YouTube by a concertgoer.  The Foo Fighters later confirmed that Grohl’s leg was broken via a tweet of an  .  ”Thank you Gothenburg. That was amazing,” the caption to the photo read.  Grohl, 46, who besides being the founder and front man of the Foo Fighters has produced documentaries and was the drummer for Nirvana, is one of the enduring faces of rock music.  Fans posted thousands of comments on the band’s Facebook page after the concert, piling on the superlatives.  ”Man, just when you thought Dave Grohl couldn’t be any more awesome,” one commenter wrote.  Another wrote: ”I don’t trust anybody who doesn’t respect Dave Grohl.”