Three pioneers in the development of nanomachines, made of moving molecules, were awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry on Wednesday. Molecular machines, the world’s smallest mechanical devices, may eventually be used to create new materials, sensors and energy storage systems, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said in announcing the prize. “In terms of development, the molecular motor is at the same stage as the electric motor was in the 1830s, when scientists displayed various spinning cranks and wheels, unaware that they would lead to electric trains, washing machines, fans and food processors,” the academy said. The three scientists  —     Sauvage, J. Fraser Stoddart and Bernard L. Feringa  —   will share equally in the prize of 8 million Swedish kronor, or about $930, 000. Nanotechnology  —   the creation of structures on the scale of a nanometer, or a billionth of a meter  —   has been a field of fruitful research for a couple of decades. Now, scientists are learning how to construct tiny moving machines about   the width of a strand of human hair. “They’ve got it started,” said Donna J. Nelson, a professor of chemistry at the University of Oklahoma and president of the American Chemical Society. “This is just the beginning. ” The first step toward creating a molecular machine was making a moving part. Chemists have long been able to synthesize   molecules, and they knew that interlocking rings might function as molecular parts. But how to create a second ring that passed through the first ring? Dr. Sauvage figured that out in 1983. A charged copper ion essentially acted as a pin around which to form the interlocking rings, he found. Once the rings were connected, the copper ion could be removed. These molecules became known as catenanes. The pieces of the molecule were held together mechanically, like links in a chain, rather than the usual chemical bonds. Dr. Stoddart made the next advance in 1991. Instead of two interlocking rings, Dr. Stoddart, then at the University of Birmingham in Britain, and his colleagues synthesized a rotaxane: a ring molecule wrapped around a   axle. The ring slides back and forth along the dumbbell, like a bead on an abacus. Dr. Stoddart went on to construct a small computer chip that was essentially a molecular abacus, as well as other complex devices. One was composed of three rotaxanes whose rings were connected to form a larger platform that could rise 0. 7 billionths of a meter: a molecular elevator. Rotaxanes bending thin layers of gold acted like an artificial muscle, he found. As a sidelight, Dr. Sauvage and Dr. Stoddart used their techniques to create molecules that twisted in complicated knots. Dr. Stoddart said in an interview that he was inspired by the interlocking forms in Celtic art. Dr. Feringa, in 1999, became the first person to develop a molecular motor, creating a minuscule rotor blade powered by light that spun continually in the same direction. The first motor was not fast, but 15 years later, he and his research group demonstrated one that spun 12 million times per second. In 2011, they built a    molecular “car. ” Four of the molecular motors acted as wheels, connected by a  . The three men invigorated the field of topological chemistry, the academy said on Wednesday. They were pioneers in the second wave of nanotechnology, a field that the physicist Richard P. Feynman, also a Nobel laureate, foresaw as early as 1959. He gave a seminal lecture in 1984, toward the end of his life, on design and engineering at the molecular scale. In living organisms, nature has produced a slew of molecular machines that ferry materials around cells, construct proteins and divide cells. Artificial molecular machines are still primitive by comparison, but scientists can already envision applications in the future. “Think about nanomachines, microrobots,” said Dr. Feringa, who spoke by telephone with journalists assembled in Stockholm at the prize announcement. “Think about tiny robots that the doctor in the future will inject in your blood veins, and they go search for cancer cells or going to deliver drugs, for instance. ” The technology could also lead to the creation of “smart materials” that change properties based on external signals, Dr. Feringa said. Dr. Sauvage, 71, was born in Paris and received his Ph. D. in 1971 from the University of Strasbourg in France, where he is a professor emeritus. He is also director of research emeritus at the National Center for Scientific Research in France. Dr. Stoddart, 74, was born in Edinburgh, received his Ph. D. in 1966 from Edinburgh University, and is a professor of chemistry at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. He previously taught at U. C. L. A. and was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II for his services to science. Dr. Feringa, 64, was born in   the Netherlands, and received his Ph. D. in 1978 from the University of Groningen, where he is a professor of organic chemistry. Dr. Feringa said he was “a bit shocked” when he got the phone call telling him he had received the Nobel. “I feel a little bit like the Wright brothers, who were flying 100 years ago for the first time,” he said. “People were saying, ‘Why do we need a flying machine?’ And now we have a Boeing 747 and an Airbus. ” The molecular discovery “opens up a whole new world of nanomachines,” he said, while acknowledging that, as scientists figure out how to make machines that can operate autonomously, “we have to think about how we can handle these things safely. ” Dr. Stoddart’s name had been mentioned for the Nobel for years. “It really got to the point where I didn’t take it very seriously,” he said. He was asleep when the phone rang at 4 a. m. “I detected a Swedish accent, and I thought it was probably not a prank,” Dr. Stoddart said. When told that he was sharing the prize with Dr. Sauvage and Dr. Feringa, “I was totally delighted, because these are my scientific brothers in many ways,” he said. James M. Tour, a professor of chemistry at Rice University in Houston, said the Nobel would bestow legitimacy on the field and help convince people that nanomachines are not just fantastical science fiction of the far future. “No one is making money on these right now, but it will come,” he said. “These men have established and built up the field in a remarkable way. ” Dr. Tour predicted that the first profitable use of the technology might be machines that open up cell membranes in the body to deliver drugs. “It’s really going to be quite extraordinary,” he said. ■ Yoshinori Ohsumi, a Japanese cell biologist, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine on Monday for his discoveries on how cells recycle their content, a process known as autophagy, a Greek term for “ . ” ■ David J. Thouless, F. Duncan M. Haldane and J. Michael Kosterlitz shared the Nobel Prize in Physics on Tuesday for their research into the bizarre properties of matter in extreme states. Tomas Lindahl, Paul L. Modrich and Aziz Sancar were awarded the prize last year for discovering how cells repair their DNA and protect it from the sun’s ultraviolet light, as well as from natural toxins and industrial pollutants. Three more will be awarded in the coming days. The Nobel Peace Prize will be announced on Friday in Norway. The Memorial Prize in Economic Science will come on Monday, Oct. 10, in Sweden. The Nobel Prize in Literature will be announced on Thursday, Oct. 13, in Sweden. Read about the winners at nytimes. .