Des Moines, Iowa (CNN) In Iowa, Hillary Clinton isn’t the only game in town for Democrats.  At her first Iowa rally on Sunday, supporters gathered at the state fairgrounds, waiting for her arrival while nibbling on hot dogs, hamburgers and a   lunch provided by the campaign. The supporters filled much of the room, but the campaign took precise note of how many people were on hand, telling reporters afterward that 713 attended.  It’s an impressive crowd, at least by the standards of most presidential candidates, including Bernie Sanders. He drew just as many people to a Friday night town meeting just across town in Des Moines. It was standing room only for Sanders from the front row all the way up to the balcony Friday evening in an auditorium at Drake University in Des Moines. A boisterous crowd cheered and gave three standing ovations before Sanders even began speaking. The auditorium holds a capacity of 700, and those who were not seated stood in the back on both levels.  RELATED: Hillary Clinton takes a stand on trade    kind of, On Saturday, he packed the U. A. W. Local 893 Hall in Marshalltown, Iowa.  Some attendees are supporters, some undecided, some are just curious. But it’s a signal that his candidacy is gaining attention in the     caucus state.  Sanders, a Vermont senator, calls himself a ”Democratic Socialist” and is running to the left of Clinton. The Clinton campaign faces the challenge of enthusing Iowa voters at these events who may have already seen the former secretary of state during her 2008 run: Clinton placed third in the Hawkeye State in 2008. Sunday’s rally was an opportunity to reintroduce herself to voters with her   class message and differentiate this candidacy as more personal.  One signal that the Clinton campaign is paying attention to the more liberal side of the party: she offered praise for Nancy Pelosi who recently stymied President Barack Obama’s trade agenda, which has been criticized by liberals. ”No president would be a tougher negotiator on behalf of American workers, either with our trade partners or Republicans on Capitol Hill than I would be,” Clinton said.  ”In order to get a deal that meets these high standards, the President should listen to and work with his allies in Congress, starting with Nancy Pelosi, who have expressed their concerns about the impact that a weak agreement would have on our workers, to make sure we get the best, strongest deal possible,” she said. 