CHICAGO  —   “There is no curse that’s crazy talk,” the chairman of the Chicago Cubs, Tom Ricketts, said the other day in his office. The Cubs have not won the World Series since 1908, nor have they qualified for one since 1945. In Chicago and beyond, by the legions, people think the explanation must come from the supernatural. There is talk of a certain billy goat. You might have to live here to understand. Once again, the Cubs are in the playoffs. They had the best   record in the major leagues, which has made them the talk of the baseball world as well as the favorites to win this year’s World Series. This might make other teams and their fans ecstatic. Yet in Chicago, there is a thinly veiled, repressed gloom that comes with having had your heart broken so often. People cope with the postseason tension in different ways. Carol Haddon, a lifelong fan, offered perspective. “My basement has flooded way too often  —   that’s sad,” she said. “The Cubs failing to win the World Series when I sense an honest effort? No, I’m not going be overly dejected about that. ” Jon Lester, a Cubs pitcher, has sought to own the curse, insisting his teammates confront it and talk about it. “There is nothing for us to run from,” he said. A beer vendor at Chicago’s Wrigley Field looks around and notices some   no longer occupying their seats. “It’s heartbreaking,” the vendor, Rocco Caputo, said. “They passed away, and I know they never got to see a World Series win. ” Will this be the year? A sampling of the people caught up in the exhilaration and strain of the 2016 season: Carol Haddon, a Cubs   holder for 45 years, has a transistor radio affixed to the wall of the home dugout in front of her   seat. She keeps score of every game and lauds Cubs fans for weathering more than a century of postseason futility. “We are not loser fans,” she said. “We are optimistic fans. I choose not to carry the losses on my back. I choose to look at the bright side of things. That’s an attribute. ” Haddon first bought her season tickets when they cost $3. 50 a game, or roughly $285 for the season. That was in 1971, when the Cubs drew only about 10, 000 fans to most games. (This year, they have averaged nearly 40, 000 a game.) Haddon remembers the ballpark was sometimes so quiet that a fan could hear the infielders chatting in the middle of an inning. And fans would routinely join in on those conversations. Haddon, a former schoolteacher who said she is in her early 70s, has attended at least 2, 000 games at Wrigley Field and become so close to Cubs players that they have been houseguests and accompanied her to high school softball games to root for her daughter. “It was all so informal then  —   that was before the WGN effect,” Haddon said. WGN, a division of the Tribune Company, which owned the Cubs at the time, was one of cable television’s first superstations, making its debut in 1978 on fledgling cable systems nationwide. Cubs games  —   including 81 played in the daytime at Wrigley, which did not have lights until 1988  —   were beamed across the country, making the Cubs a kind of second home team for some. In places without major league teams, the Cubs were adopted as the home team. Nearly 40 years later, the Cubs can genuinely say they have a nation of fans. And hundreds of thousands of them make frequent pilgrimages to Wrigley Field, where tickets are in high demand. Haddon, who last week wore Cubs earrings, a Cubs pullover and white shoes decorated with the kind of red stitching used on a baseball, never puts her two tickets for sale on secondary ticket markets like StubHub. Her two children and various friends come to games with her. Saturday night games are always date nights with her husband, Jimmy. There has been plenty to despair, but the one time Haddon struggled to keep her sunny disposition was during the 1984 National League Championship Series, when the Cubs were one victory from making it to the World Series, then were eliminated with three consecutive defeats in San Diego. An error by the star Cubs first baseman Leon Durham  —   the ball trickled under his glove and through his legs  —   led to San Diego’s surprising comeback in the final game. As usual for a Cubs postseason defeat, there were shadowy circumstances that led to the last, crushing loss. Before the game, Durham’s first baseman’s mitt was accidentally doused with Gatorade, making it sticky and gluey. Flustered, he considered using another glove but decided against it, a decision Cubs fans have lamented ever since. Durham’s mitt may have, in essence, been stuck shut as he was trying to snare a crucial ground ball. Haddon was at the game in San Diego. “That’s the only time the Cubs really, really made me cry,” she said last week. “When I got off the plane coming home and saw my husband, I started crying. ” But Haddon has been confident approaching this year’s playoffs. Even if she feels the fear around her, especially because the Cubs have the best record in the majors. “Everyone is a little afraid to be so excited,” she said, sitting in her princely seats with her feet propped on the Cubs’ dugout during a   weekend day game. “We’re all afraid. Well, I’m not afraid, because I believe we will win. We should win. We’re the best team in baseball. ” Pitcher Jon Lester spent nine seasons with the Boston Red Sox, watching as a city and a region burdened by decades of dispiriting postseason losses had its championship renaissance. In his second season as a Cub, Lester cannot help seeing the similarities between Chicago and Boston. “In Boston, no matter how good the Patriots, Celtics or Bruins are, it’s sort of a Red Sox town,” he said. “I feel the same thing is true in Chicago. No matter how good any other team is, it always comes back to the Cubs. ” Lester has also assessed the two fan bases and sees considerable differences. “East Coast versus the Midwest,” he said. “It’s not the full,       type of city and fan as you get in Boston. Here, everybody is a little slower, a little more  . But the passion is still there. Both ballparks are packed every night, and everybody is yelling. ” While much of the Cubs’ roster was built with shrewd acquisitions of young talent, Lester was perhaps the final pivotal piece added when he spurned multiple other suitors, most notably the Red Sox, to sign a   contract before the 2015 season worth $155 million. He was rejoining the architects of Boston’s multiple championships: the Cubs’ president for baseball operations, Theo Epstein, and General Manager Jed Hoyer. Lester brought with him the gravitas of a   World Series pitching record and a 0. 43 earned run average in those games. There were other bonds to his Boston days. Lester is one of two cancer survivors in the Cubs’ clubhouse. In 2006, he was told he had a form of  ’s lymphoma, but returned to win the game that clinched the World Series for the Red Sox in 2007. Cubs first baseman Anthony Rizzo was told he had Hodgkin’s lymphoma in 2008, when he was an    Red Sox minor leaguer. Lester and Rizzo first met in the Boston clubhouse shortly after Rizzo received the diagnosis, with Lester offering his counsel on how to approach the chemotherapy and the mental challenges of confronting the disease. Eight years later, they have been reunited as Cubs and have developed a     bond. Lester had a   record this season, the best winning percentage for a National League pitcher. Rizzo is a leading candidate for the league’s Most Valuable Player Award after slugging 31 home runs and driving in 101 runs. All around the Cubs’ clubhouse, Lester has become a seasoned, valued voice, perhaps because of his Boston experiences or maybe because Lester had to overcome so much more off the field. But he is not reluctant to discuss the subject that never goes away in Chicago: the Cubs’ curse. “I’ve told the guys we have to talk about it, because you can’t stick it in the back corner of a dark room and never acknowledge it,” Lester said, standing at his locker. “That’s how bad things creep in. This city has waited a long, long time. For whatever reason  —   a goat or a black cat  —   things haven’t worked out. “But we’ve talked about wanting to be the team that wins the World Series  —   a Cubs World Series. ” Lester looked across the team’s clubhouse, toward the long, serpentine footpath that leads to the home dugout and the cozy grounds of Wrigley Field, built six years after the Cubs’ last World Series victory. “There is a reality that we are facing,” Lester said. “It is the team’s history. But history gets updated all the time. ” A mime once came to lead the Cubs’ pregame stretching drills. A player rode his bike from his home to the ballpark like a Little Leaguer, in complete uniform. Another day, the team stepped onto the field to find live bear cubs frolicking in the grass. All the shenanigans came from the fertile, experimental mind of Cubs Manager Joe Maddon, a grizzled and usually   former scout, minor league hitting coach and manager and   coach who waited 31 years to be put at the helm of a   club. Before the 2015 season, when he was 60 years old, Maddon agreed to become the Cubs’ manager and shoulder the weight of history that came with the job. The new sheriff in town gave his team a set of nonmarching orders. As he described them last week: “I don’t have any rules or regulations other than I want you to run hard to first base and I want the pitchers to work on their defense. There are no dress codes I think they’re nonsensical. The concept of being late is overblown. You can’t really be late for anything. ” In less than two years, Maddon’s freethinking philosophy has elevated him to   status in Chicago, where his   preachings are emblazoned on   sold all over the city. John Baranowski, a    longtime Cubs fan, was wearing one of Maddon’s signature   that read “Do Simple Better” as he prepared to enter Wrigley Field last week. Baranowski likened Maddon to a baseball swami delivered to Wrigley by divine intervention to reverse the Cubs’ curse. “Is there anyone better to fix an insanely      situation than a guy who lives to defy what people say is supposed to happen?” Baranowski said. “This is the perfect guy. He doesn’t care about the stupid curse. ” Maddon, whose   record with the Cubs is   may have saved his most important, if atypical, managerial ploy when it comes to the famed curse. He refuses to shy from it. At Wrigley Field, he had a wall leading from the team’s clubhouse to the dugout inscribed with this Maddon maxim: “Don’t let the pressure exceed the pleasure. ” Maddon is not going to allow more than a century of postseason despair to ruin his good time. “For me, the word ‘pressure’ should be an absolute positive and not a negative, because if people are throwing that pressure out at you, that means there’s really something good attached to whatever you’re trying to accomplish,” he said. “Pressure lives in the future, not the present tense. If you can live in the moment, then you can enjoy the pleasure of it. ” Sitting at his office desk beneath the Wrigley Field grandstand, Maddon shook his head. “Listen, I’ve wanted to do this since I was 6 years old, and now I’m going to get here and be miserable?” he said. “No, man, I don’t get that way of thinking at all. ” Rocco Caputo has tramped up and down the stairs at Cubs games for 33 years, a smiling, wisecracking fixture at Wrigley Field, a place called “the friendly confines” for its cheery atmosphere. But there is a hidden melancholy, like a family secret never discussed. It reveals itself when the Cubs are in the postseason. “There’s a lot of crying that nobody likes to talk about,” Caputo said as he stood in a narrow aisle in Wrigley’s lower deck last week. “It’s there in the stands. ” Caputo was selling beer behind home plate in 2003 during what was probably the most tormenting bad break in a Cubs playoff run. In the eighth inning of Game 6 during that year’s National League Championship Series, the Cubs had a   lead and were five outs from a victory that would send them to the World Series when Steve Bartman, a longtime fan of the team sitting along the railing of the   stands, interfered with a foul fly ball that might have been caught by a Cubs outfielder. The incident set in motion a series of   misplays and quirky bounces that could only happen to the Cubs, who lost that game and Game 7 the next day. Caputo looked into the eyes of his customers that night. “I saw the hurt,” he said. With the Cubs eliminated, Caputo finished counting his beer sales cash and dashed from Wrigley Field to begin the   walk home. Instead, he walked for miles in the opposite direction. “I didn’t want to go home,” he said. “I didn’t know where I was going. I felt like jumping in Lake Michigan. I just walked for like an hour. ” Unlike some Cubs fans, he does not blame Bartman, but unlike some Cubs fans, he is willing to admit to some kind of Cubs hex. “We’ve got a curse and we’ve got to get rid of it,” Caputo said. “A lot of people have been coming here for years, and it’s getting hard. “Most of us have been waiting our whole lives. I’m 49. I’m helping all I can. I cheer my heart out. I sell the beer. ” In 2009, when the Ricketts family was getting ready to buy the Cubs, occasionally someone would ask Tom Ricketts: Aren’t you worried about aligning yourself with a franchise best known for not winning the World Series? Ricketts had a much bigger fear. He was nervous that the Cubs, who had decent teams back then, might win the World Series before he could buy the team. Ricketts, who was making the bid for the Cubs along with his two brothers, sister and parents, wondered if his family would want to own the Cubs without the World Series drought. “It’s much better to be part of the quest for a championship than to be coming in after the goal has been accomplished,” Ricketts said last week. “Our question was: If they win the World Series, do we care anymore?” The Ricketts family, whose fortune derives from TD Ameritrade, the brokerage founded by the patriarch Joseph Ricketts, need not have worried that the Cubs would shatter its hopes. As soon as the Rickettses took charge, the Cubs fell apart, losing an average of about 93 games during the next five seasons. Ricketts, the ownership’s public face, was nearly an everyday presence at Wrigley Field during those seasons, as he is now, making himself available to fans as he walks through the concourses at almost every home game. He often rides a commuter train to his downtown Chicago office, where he also runs an investment banking company he created in 1999. Raised in Nebraska and a Cubs fan since he went to college in Chicago  —   he and his brother once lived across the street from Wrigley Field  —   he is one of the most accessible team owners in American sports. “When we were losing 101 games one season, everyone assumes I walked through Wrigley and had everyone yelling at me,” he said. “That wasn’t the case at all. Every once in a while, there would be somebody who didn’t understand our plan, but we could buy them a beer and try to explain. ” The plan was to turn all the baseball decisions over to Epstein, the president for baseball operations, who gutted the Cubs, several times trading away most of the team’s older starting pitchers for young, undeveloped talent, to build a sustainable core for the future. With the Cubs now the favorites to win World Series, Ricketts hears fans saying they wished the Cubs were backing into the playoffs instead  —   there is less pressure that way. Ricketts snickered and said, “There are a lot of people here who have a lot of time to overthink all those angles. ” Never mind that no team has ever been so vexed by so many curious setbacks and omens, many with such rich, colorful names and narratives. A fan, Billy Sianis, and his pet goat were ejected from Wrigley Field during the 1945 World Series. Sianis vowed that the Cubs would never again win baseball’s championship because of the insult. The Cubs lost in seven games and have yet to return to the World Series. Hence, the celebrated curse of the billy goat. There was also a prancing black cat preceding a 1969   collapse. Ricketts would not hear any of it. He shook his head side to side when the Cubs’ many bizarre postseason outcomes were recounted to him. “We had a lot of bad teams, and when we had good teams, we had a lot of bad luck,” he said. “And we just have to accept that. That’s the truth. But there is no curse. ”