Jennifer Diaz first stepped onto the stage of the Metropolitan Opera House at 11, as an extra in “I Pagliacci” and “La Bohème. ” For the next three years, it became her second home, as she regularly visited her father, who is still the Met’s night crew manager after more than three decades. At 19, she began working there as a stagehand, typically the only female member in a   crew. Now, at 34, she has made history, becoming the first female head carpenter of Local 1 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees. The local’s 3, 351 members work in spaces from the Met to Carnegie Hall, at Radio City Music Hall and Madison Square Garden, and in every Broadway theater  —   including the Walter Kerr, which is where she was one morning in September, overseeing the   for the musical “Falsettos. ” With a head of thick dark curls and a ready smile, Ms. Diaz is a   tomboy, a blend of   authority and quiet confidence. “My name has a lot of clout in this business,” she said. “I have people on my side and in my pocket I can turn to. ” She works in a   shirt, shorts and sturdy sneakers, a delicate silver necklace barely visible. Married to a fellow Local 1 stagehand, she sports a tattooed wedding ring in place of a traditional metal band, the   of her ring finger worn clean from years of ungloved manual labor. Standing on the shallow stage of the Kerr, she kept a close eye on the crew of stagehands, all of them men. As heavy objects thumped and banged, it was her job to keep everyone safe  —   while not alienating those who work for her. And with her many close ties within Local 1, it’s a balancing act. “See those two guys?” she said, pointing to a burly pair wrangling a chain motor. “They’re brothers  —   and one of them is married to one of my cousins. ” No longer working for an hourly rate, typical of   positions, Ms. Diaz is now a   staff employee of Jujamcyn Theaters. (Before her promotion, she would often work a   schedule at the Cort Theater on Broadway, then head uptown for the night shift at the opera house, a total of at least 72 hours each week.) Despite breaking the glass ceiling, Ms. Diaz is typical of backstage workers at prominent New York theaters in other regards. As David Grindle, executive director of the United States Institute for Theater Technology, a national trade group, pointed out, “Everything in this industry is based on relationships. ” Her new job title is somewhat misleading, as she no longer wields a hammer or saw her role is now more administrative and managerial. “I point and do payroll,” she joked. Still, even as an industry veteran, she said she was “totally surprised” when asked to compete with 12 others in applying for the job, and “terrified” of a formal interview. Ms. Diaz brought specific technical skills to the position, having worked with a similar rigging system at the Cort. She now acts as the intermediary between her employers and the mostly male stagehands she hires. “I have to make sure that all things in the house are safe,” she explained. “If wood gets chipped or a curtain gets torn, it’s my job to make sure we restore it. I’m responsible to make sure the Walter Kerr stays intact, that everyone working here is happy and healthy. ” Local 1, with only 189 female members, is widely considered the most prestigious local in the country and, industry veterans agree, one of the most difficult to join. There are three ways in: earning $35, 000 a year for three consecutive years in a qualifying union job unionizing your own workplace or taking a skills assessment test to qualify for an apprentice position lasting two to three years. The work, while not always steady, can be lucrative, paying up to $80, 000 a year, plus benefits. Ms. Diaz’s   network is typical of the union, where many members are married to one another or related by blood. “It makes a huge difference having family in the business,” said Kristina Miller, a veteran stagehand and Local 1 member who has known Ms. Diaz for more than a decade. When stagehands are being hired, a familiar last name makes a big difference. “It’s nepotism,” Ms. Miller said. “You’re    ’s kid, not just some Joe Smith. Absolutely, I’ll give you work. ” Besides her father, John Diaz, Ms. Diaz’s older brother, Michael Diaz, is also in the business, as head carpenter of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. “Backstage is a   occupation,” Michael Diaz explained by email. “The head carpenter is the head of the heads, and when 90 percent of the people you’re overseeing are men, and probably much older then Jen, one has to look them in the eye and say ‘Do your work’ in a way that inspires them and not complain about how they were spoken to. ” Accustomed to being “the only girl in the building,” Ms. Diaz said she’s used to it: “I can honestly say I have no friends who are girls. ” Ms. Diaz changed colleges three times before graduating from Rutgers University with a degree in psychology. She’d hoped to become a music teacher “because it gave me such joy,” she said. “I wanted to share that. ” But understanding psychology “has come in handy more times than I count,” she said. “When someone’s acting a certain way, at least I know it’s not me. ” Keeping a cool head is essential, fellow stagehands agree. Ms. Miller said that being “stubborn” and “pigheaded” has helped her thrive in workplaces where foul language is standard. Acquiring the technical and mathematical knowledge for Ms. Diaz’s current job required years of hard physical labor and demands a sensitive managerial style and the ability to juggle the sometimes competing needs  —   for speed and safety  —   of her employers and her hired hands. Stagehands and flymen wrestle enormous pieces of metal and steel, with each show’s costly, carefully designed sets usually shipping in from studios in Connecticut and upstate New York. Nine of Broadway’s theaters, those built between 1903 and 1927, are “hemp houses,” using manila ropes to set the stage. A hemp fly system is the simplest type, and stage rigging techniques draw largely from ship rigging. Backstage in a hemp house sounds like a ship the stage is referred to as a deck, and words used include batten, belay, block, bo’sun, hitch and lanyard. “The ability to rig in a hemp house is a dying art,” Ms. Diaz said. “I call it ‘art’ because there’s nothing in the air when you start the  . The first day, it’s a complete blank slate to put whatever you want wherever you want. You have the most versatility, but also the most work. ” Safety is her primary concern. “One short cut or misstep can lead to you loosening a pipe and really hurting people. ” “My first accident was when a house ran over my foot,” she said. The house, a   prop for “Madama Butterfly” at the Met Opera, left a huge contusion. “I was out for the rest of the season,” she recalled. In her downtime, she listens to music (the Cure is a favorite) but she’s had little of that. Having worked two jobs last year, she admitted that she gained weight from a lack of sleep and exercise. And what of the romance of the theater, the hush of anticipation as the lights dim, the orchestra begins to play and the curtain rises? “I saw ‘Cats’ in 1989 I vaguely remember that,” Ms. Diaz said. “But I haven’t been to a show in a long time. I’m here enough!”