SYDNEY, Australia  —   The Australian government said on Friday that a piece of debris that washed up on the Indian Ocean island of Mauritius in May was from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. The debris, identified as part of the trailing edge of the rear spar on the left wing of the plane, contained parts and serial numbers specific to the missing jet, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said in a statement. The plane disappeared after taking off from the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur, on an overnight flight to Beijing in March 2014. It inexplicably turned south and continued flying for more than six hours, with 227 passengers and 12 crew members on board. The authorities believe it finally went down in the southern Indian Ocean. The latest debris is the third part to be formally identified as from the plane, although the Malaysian government has said additional pieces of flotsam have washed up along the coast of several African nations. Some of those may still be identified as coming from the jet. In its statement, the transport safety bureau said the debris found on the shore of Mauritius on May 10 had serial numbers and identifying marks similar to those on another piece of debris identified in September as part of the right wing flap of the missing plane. That debris, found in late June, washed up on the Tanzanian island of Pemba. The first confirmed piece of debris from the plane was found in July 2015 on the French island of Réunion, also off the east coast of Africa. Although searchers scoured hundreds of thousands of square miles of the southern Indian Ocean from the air in the first weeks after the plane disappeared, no debris was found during those surveys. Since then, ships fitted with deepwater sonar equipment have swept nearly 43, 000 square miles of sea floor along a remote, narrow arc of water off Australia’s west coast. In July, ministers from Australia, China and Malaysia agreed that unless credible evidence of the plane was found on the seabed, the search would be suspended in December. None of the debris has so far helped the authorities refine the search area for the missing jet.