On Tuesday, President Obama pardoned or commuted the sentences of more than 270 people, including  Chelsea Manning, a former Army intelligence analyst, and Oscar López Rivera, a Puerto Rican nationalist. Far down on the list, attracting almost no attention, was a boldface name from the disco days and nights of Manhattan in the 1970s. Ian Schrager, a hotelier and real estate developer whose club, Studio 54, was a notorious celebrity hangout, was among the 64 people granted a pardon in the waning moments of Mr. Obama’s presidency. The wild nightclub was central in Mr. Schrager’s conviction in 1980 on felony tax evasion charges he was accused of hiding money the club made from the government, concealing some of it in trash bags and ceiling panels. With a portfolio that has included some of the most expensive residential real estate in Manhattan  —   and boutique hotels, whose very concept he helped invent  —   Mr. Schrager seems to have little tangible need for a presidential intercession to set aside his conviction. He agrees, to a point. “I was able to overcome everything by being tenacious and, I suppose, relentless, and having successful products,” he said in an interview on Wednesday. “It wasn’t something that I needed to continue business. ” Instead, he said, it was knowing that his son, who is 6, would grow up to learn what he had done that pushed Mr. Schrager to hire a Washington law firm, Hogan Lovells, four years ago to apply for a pardon. “I wanted it for closure. I wanted it for my family,” he said. “It’s hard to be a good example for your kids when you did something like what I did, and you try to teach your kids to live by the rules and be an upstanding person. ” Mr. Schrager applied in 2012 for the pardon, which restores civil liberties like voting but does not expunge a criminal record, and he waited each year for a decision, with no word back. The lawyer who helped with Mr. Schrager’s pardon application, H. P. Goldfield, said it was not his client’s financial success or connections that ultimately made his pardon application successful, but how Mr. Schrager had lived his life in the years since he left prison. “It’s not just saying, ‘I’m sorry.’ There has got to be a sense that the person is really remorseful and admits their wrongdoing and that they’ve lived an exemplary life ever since,” Mr. Goldfield said, pointing to the thousands of jobs that Mr. Schrager’s company had created and his history as a mentor to young people. “He has really lived an exemplary life. He asked for forgiveness, and the president saw it in his heart to forgive. ” The application also asks for written testimony from three character witnesses. Mr. Schrager, 70, declined to say who they were. “It happened when I was young enough, and thank God, having lost everything, I didn’t lose my enthusiasm for life,” he said. “Either I was just going to give up, or dust myself off and put my head down and just try and recoup everything that l lost. ” “Some of it you can’t recoup,” he added. “I’ll always have the scar. ” The felony conviction made it difficult to   himself after his release from prison. Mr. Schrager recalled having to drive to Virginia just to get a credit card, because banks in New York would not do business with him. Convicted felons cannot legally obtain a liquor license, so his first hotels in Manhattan, including Morgans and the Paramount, could not serve liquor, he said. In 1992, a lawyer for Mr. Schrager convinced the State Liquor Authority that he was sufficiently rehabilitated to merit another license. Mr. Schrager was convicted with his closest friend and business partner, Steve Rubell, who died in 1989. Some of his first thoughts upon learning of the pardon were of Mr. Rubell, Mr. Schrager said. “I’ll never have another friend like Steve,” he said. “And now I am here bringing closure to this event, and it’s bittersweet  —   I can’t share that with him. ” His conviction has brought other lingering effects. At airports, he is detained for questioning when he   the country, Mr. Schrager said. He said he was unsure if those stops would diminish after the pardon. But the lasting effect after more than three decades is mostly emotional, an abiding sense of shame. On Tuesday, when Mr. Goldfield called to tell him the news, Mr. Schrager was at his home in the NoHo neighborhood of Manhattan. His son overheard the ensuing excited conversation between Mr. Schrager and his wife, Tania Wahlstedt. “He knew something good had happened, and he asked me, ‘Well, what’s so good that happened? ’” Mr. Schrager recalled. “I still didn’t feel like talking about it,’’ he said. “I said, ‘Well, the president said I was a good guy’  —   that was enough. ”