’  ’ ”   (Reuters)   U. S.   Donald Trump said in a Twitter   message on Monday that Chicago’s mayor must ask for U. S.   government help if the city fails to reduce its homicide rate,   which hit a   high in 2016. ” ’   The city responded that Trump and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel had   previously spoken and agreed to ways the federal government could   help. ’ ’   ”Chicago murder rate is record setting   4, 331 shooting victims   with 762 murders in 2016. If Mayor can’’t do it he must ask for   Federal help!” Trump tweeted. ’ ’   The   correctly reported crime numbers published by   the Chicago Police Department on Sunday, but the figures were not    . ’ ’   Although up about 60 percent from the previous year, the 762   homicides in 2016 were the highest annual toll since 1996, when   there were 796, according to police data. ’ ’’ ”   During the presidential campaign, Trump periodically referred to   Chicago, America’s third most populous city, as an example of   rising   crime, which ticked up nationally in 2016 after   a   downward trend. ” ’   As candidate, Trump associated   cities with their   Democratic leaders. Emanuel is a former chief of staff to   Democratic President Barack Obama. ’ ’   A spokesman for Emanuel welcomed the prospect of working with   Trump once the Republican takes office on Jan. 20, but noted   Trump and Emanuel had already spoken on the issue. The two met in   New York in December. ’ ’   ”As the   knows from his conversation with the   mayor, we agree the federal government has a strong role to play   in public safety,” spokesman Adam Collins said in a statement. ’ ’   Collins said the federal government could help by passing   stricter gun laws, improving cooperation between federal and   local law enforcement and funding programs for   youth. ’ ’   ”We are heartened he is taking this issue seriously and look   forward to working with the new administration,” Collins said. ’ ’   Chicago has outlined plans to reduce violence, including the   scheduled hiring of 970 police officers over the next two years   to raise the total to 13, 500. ’ ’   Police in Chicago made more gun arrests in 2016 than in New York   and Los Angeles combined, Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson   said on Sunday. ’ ’   ”We will make 2017 a safer year for the city of Chicago,” Johnson   told reporters. ’ ’   Johnson said he would lobby the Illinois legislature to reform   sentencing guidelines for repeat gun offenders. Police would also   focus on ”targeted,   enforcement” and make community   policing ”a   philosophy,” Johnson said. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Reporting by Daniel Trotta in New York; Editing by Peter Cooney) ’