’  ’ ’   ISTANBUL (Reuters)   Shot in the arm and slumped behind a table,   Francois   played dead as the gunman walked through the   exclusive Istanbul nightclub shooting the wounded as they lay on   the ground. ’ ”   Like most of the 39 people killed at a New Year’s party in Reina,   a   for the Turkish jet set and moneyed foreigners, the   Lebanese radio and TV graduate was a visitor to Istanbul,   enjoying a city reputed in the Middle East for its diversity and   tolerance. ” ’   ”He shot one shot, so we thought   I thought   it was some angry   or drunk man . .. But a few seconds later, we heard a machine   gun,” Asmar told Reuters from his hospital bed. ’ ’   ”I was hiding behind the table, sitting on the floor, but my   shoulder must have been exposed. He was shooting us on the floor   . .. I acted dead so he didn’’t keep shooting me,” he said. ’ ’   The lone gunman, still at large, shot dead a police officer and a   civilian at the door before walking in and opening fire at   random. Witnesses said he shouted ”Allahu Akbar” (God is   Greatest). Islamic State claimed responsibility. ’ ’   ”As soon as he entered the club he started firing and he didn’’t   stop. He fired   for 20 minutes at least,” said Younis   Turk, a French citizen of Turkish origin. ’ ’   ”We thought that there were several of them because it just   didn’’t stop. And there was some kind of bombing as well, he threw   some explosives,” he said. ’ ’   The club was a gathering point for many nationalities that night.   Victims included an Indian Bollywood film producer, a Turkish   waiter, a Lebanese fitness trainer and a Jordanian bar owner. ’ ’   According to a forensics report quoted by the Milliyet newspaper,   some of the victims were shot at very close distance or even at     range. ’ ’   Mehmet Yilan, 36, a barman at Reina for 12 years, said the   attacker deliberately targeted the most crowded areas of the   club, which sits on the shore of the Bosphorus in Ortakoy, an   Istanbul neighborhood packed with cafes and restaurants. ’ ’   ”He stormed in and immediately headed for the people to the left,   which is always more crowded . .. I wonder if he came here before   because he seemed to know where to go,” Yilan said, describing   how his manager yelled at people to run. ’ ’   ”He was shooting randomly but aiming for their upper bodies. He   didn’’t want to just injure them.” ’ ’   Yilan escaped into a back room with five customers and two other   bar staff, then went downstairs to a terraced area on the edge of   the water. Despite the icy, snowy weather, some people jumped   into the water to escape the gunfire. ’ ’   ”He kept shooting all throughout. I called for our boat which   transfers our customers, but he kept firing toward the sea too.   The boat couldn’’t approach,” Yilan said. ’ ’   He spoke to Reuters at the funeral of his colleague, Fatih   Cakmak, a security guard who worked at the club and had survived   a suicide bombing targeting police at a soccer stadium a few   kilometers away just three weeks earlier. ’ ’  ’ ’   Lito German, 47, a Filipino living in Saudi Arabia who works in   marketing, was in Istanbul for the first time with his wife and   daughter and was approaching the club as the attack began. ’ ’   ”We were about 100 metres away and started seeing people fleeing   toward us. Most were very well dressed, though many were barefoot   and looking shaken and scared,” he said. ’ ’   ”We were actually meant to go to another club, but we didn’’t want   to be in a very big place due to security issues, and we found   Reina by googling Istanbul’’s best night club. We thought the most   expensive club would have better security.” ’ ’   Armored police vehicles rushed to the scene as more and more   people came running out, he said. ’ ’   Among the dead were Abis Rizvi, 49, a Bollywood producer who was   in the midst of making his second film, and Khushi Shah, a   fashion designer in her 20s, both from Mumbai. The Indian   government said it was making arrangements to help the families   as they come to Turkey to collect the bodies. ’ ’   Lebanon sent a plane to carry back the remains of three of its   citizens who were among the dead. ’ ’   Elias Wardini, 26, a personal trainer, had posted a picture on   Instagram a few hours before the attack, posing in the Istanbul   snow with another Lebanese victim in her twenties, Rita Shami. ’ ”   The club’s owner, Mehmet Kocarslan, said police had taken   extraordinary security measures in the   to the New Year in   neighborhoods on the Bosphorus shore around Ortakoy. ” ’   The U. S. embassy had warned of potential attacks on areas   frequented by foreigners, but Kocarslan said there had been no   specific threat against his club in particular and that many of   the warnings had been  . ’ ’   ”I really don’’t know how this demon, I can’’t even call him a   terrorist, was able to reach here despite all this intelligence   and extraordinary security measures,” he said. ’ ”   The incident bore echoes of an attack by militant Islamists on   Paris’s Bataclan music hall in November 2015 that, along with   assaults on bars and restaurants, killed 130 people. ” ’   ”When they’’re determined, they’’re determined, and there’’s nothing   to do,” said Turk, who was visiting from France. ’ ’   ”That doesn’’t mean that I won’’t be coming anymore. For   me Turkey, Istanbul, is one of the nicest cities in the   world and I will keep on coming again and again.” ’ ’     ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Miguel Pereira and Yesim Dikmen in   Istanbul, Shilpa Jamkhandikar in Mumbai, Lisa Barrington in   Beirut; editing by Ralph Boulton; Writing by Nick Tattersall) ’