’  ’ ”   Senate Republicans initiated their first attempt of the new   Congress to roll back the Affordable Care Act, one of     Donald Trump’s biggest campaign promises. ” ’   On Tuesday, Sen. Mike Enzi introduced a resolution to repeal   Obamacare through the budget reconciliation process, which would   allow Republicans to repeal the law with a simple     majority in the Senate. ’ ’   ”Americans face skyrocketing premiums and soaring deductibles,”   Enzi said in a statement. ”Insurers are withdrawing from markets   across the country, leaving many families with fewer choices and   less access to care than they had before  —   the opposite of what   the law promised.” ’ ”   Though Obamacare has provided insurance for close to 20 million   Americans, Enzi’s resolution would initiate a partial repeal of   the law without offering a permanent replacement plan, which some   congressional Republicans said they would announce in the coming   months. ” ”   For their part, Democrats plan to resist or make Republicans pay   a heavy political price for the repeal of the law, President   Barack Obama’s signature legislative achievement. ” ’’ ”   Obama himself is set to visit Congress this week to rally support   for the healthcare law. Vice   Mike Pence will meet   with House Republicans the same day to counter the president’s   visit, urging Republicans to pass their own version of healthcare   reform. ” ”   For its part, the Trump transition team has maintained that it   would keep in place popular Obama administration plans, but   hasn’t indicated which of the  it would   support. ” ’   During a Tuesday interview on MSNBC’’s ”Morning Joe,” incoming   Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway pledged to craft a plan that   allowed the millions of people insured under Obamacare to keep   their insurance. She did not specify how any existing Republican   plans would allow everyone who is covered through Obamacare to   keep their insurance, but referenced familiar Republican   proposals, including allowing people to purchase health insurance   across state lines and promising to . ’ ’   ”We don’’t want anyone who currently has insurance to not have   insurance,” Conway said. ’