’  ’ ”   A declassified version of a  on Russian hacking has concluded that   Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered a campaign to influence   the US presidential election with the aim of hurting Hillary   Clinton’s chance of winning. ” ’   The report, from the Office of the Director of National   Intelligence, encompasses US intelligence efforts to determine   who is responsible for hacks of the Democratic National Committee   and Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. ’ ’   ”We assess Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence   campaign in 2016 aimed at the US presidential election,” the   report said. ”Russia’’s goals were to undermine public faith in   the US democratic process, denigrate Secretary Clinton, and harm   her electability and potential presidency.” ’ ’   The report also concluded that Russia aimed to help     Donald Trump win the election. ’ ’   ”Putin and the Russian government developed a clear preference   for   Trump,” the report said. ’ ’’ ’   ”Putin and the Russian government aspired to help     Trump’’s election chances when possible by discrediting Secretary   Clinton and publicly contrasting her unfavorably to him,” it   continued. The report said that the CIA and FBI have high   confidence in this judgment and the NSA has moderate confidence. ’ ’   The report did not assess ”the impact that Russian activities had   on the outcome of the 2016 election.” ’ ’   The report also concluded that the Russian government expected   Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee and former secretary   of state, to win the election. ’ ’   ”Moscow’’s approach evolved over the course of the campaign based   on Russia’’s understanding of the electoral prospects of the two   main candidates,” the report said. ”When it appeared to Moscow   that Secretary Clinton was likely to win the election, the   Russian influence campaign began to focus more on undermining her   future presidency.” ’ ’   The report described an ”influence campaign” that included   ”covert intelligence operations” and cyber activity and ”overt   efforts by Russian government agencies,   media,     intermediaries, and paid social media users, or   ’’trolls. ’’” The cyber operations extended to both political   parties. ’ ”   The journalist Adrian Chen found as he was  that the   country’s troll factories were likely being paid by the Kremlin   to spread   propaganda on social media. ” ’   Trump has  of Russian involvement in     hacking. On Friday, after receiving a briefing from intelligence   officials on the hacking,  that Russia could have   played a role. ’