’  ’ ’   Detroit Lions safety Glover Quin is in the fourth year of his     $23. 5 million contract. But by living on just 30% of   that salary and investing the other 70% Quin has managed to   double his money in just eight years. ’ ’ Quin   said his frugal tendencies and savvy investments  —   from the   moment he entered the NFL in 2009  —   had allowed him to   effectively earn two contracts simultaneously. ’ ’   ”To sit here and say I’’ve played for eight years and made this   much money, I was in a couple investments for five years and kind   of made the same amount of money,” Quin told ESPN. ”It’’s kind of   like having a double NFL career, you know.” ’ ’   Whereas so many professional athletes blow through their huge   contracts and quickly go broke, Quin has set himself up nicely   for the future. He majored in business at the University of New   Mexico, and he told ESPN that even living on 30% of his salary   still felt like a ton of money to him. ’ ’: ’ ’’ ’   For the first three years of his career, Quin lived on $6, 000 a   month, and he invested the rest of his salary in     publicly traded companies. His teammates called him cheap, but he   stuck with his plan. ’ ’   When he signed his contract with Detroit in 2013, he did not go   out and spend wildly; he did not even buy a new car (he continues   to drive his 2009 Yukon Denali). Instead, he diversified his   portfolio and began taking more investment risks. ’ ’: ’ ’   Quin insisted to  that he was a football player first, but the time and   research he puts into his investments certainly sound like a     job. He has a methodical   plan before   investing, and he aspires to give money only to companies he   believes are trying to change the world. ’ ”   He wouldn’t share his full portfolio with ESPN, but some   investments listed were Health Warrior, which makes food out of   chia; pawTree, a pet nutrition company; and PeerWell,   whose ” ’   In some ways, Quin is using his football skills as an approach to   his business.  the cofounder of PeerWell: ’ ’   And Quin has no plans of slowing down. ’ ’   ”It’’s one of those things that’’s very exciting,” he . ”Hopefully, everything continues to work out great and   I can be one of those stories that they say, ’’You know what, I   probably made more money investing than I made playing   football. ’’” ’