’  ’ ”   FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP)  —   The Iraq war veteran accused of   killing five travelers and wounding six others at a busy   international airport in Florida appears to have traveled there   specifically to carry out the attack, authorities said Saturday,   but they don’t know why he chose his target and have not ruled   out terrorism. ” ’   Authorities said during a news conference that they had   interviewed roughly 175 people, including a lengthy interrogation   with the cooperative suspect,    Esteban Santiago, a   former National Guard soldier from Alaska. Flights had resumed at   the Fort Lauderdale airport after the bloodshed, though the   terminal where the shooting happened remained closed. ’ ’   FBI Agent George Piro said Santiago spoke to investigators for   several hours after he opened fire with a 9mm     handgun that he appears to have legally checked on a flight from   Alaska. ’ ’   ”Indications are that he came here to carry out this horrific   attack,” Piro said. ”We have not identified any triggers that   would have caused this attack. We’’re pursuing all angles on what   prompted him to carry out this horrific attack.” ’ ”   Investigators are combing through social media and other   information to determine Santiago’s motive, and it’s too early to   say whether terrorism played a role, Piro said. In November,   Santiago had walked into an FBI field office in Alaska saying the   U. S. government was controlling his mind and forcing him to watch   Islamic State group videos, authorities said. ” ’   ”He was a   complaint. This is something that happens at   FBI offices around the country every day,” FBI agent Marlin   Ritzman said. ’ ’   Santiago had a loaded magazine on him, but had left a gun in his   vehicle, along with his newborn child, authorities said. Officers   seized the weapon and local officers took him to get a mental   health evaluation. His girlfriend picked up the child. ’ ”   On Dec. 8, the gun was returned to Santiago. Authorities wouldn’t   say if it was the same gun used in the airport attack. ” ’   U. S. Attorney Karen Loeffler said Santiago would have been able   to legally possess a gun because he had not been judged mentally   ill, which is a higher standard than having an evaluation. ’ ’  ’ ’   Santiago had not been placed on the U. S.   list and appears   to have acted alone, authorities said. ’ ’   The attack sent panicked witnesses running out of the terminal   and spilling onto the tarmac, baggage in hand. Others hid in   bathroom stalls or crouched behind cars or anything else they   could find as police and paramedics rushed in to help the wounded   and establish whether there were any other gunmen. ’ ’   Mark Lea, 53, had just flown in from Minnesota with his wife for   a cruise when he heard three quick cracks, like a firecracker.   Then came more cracks, and ”I knew it was more than just a   firecracker,” he said. ’ ’   Making sure his wife was outside, Lea helped evacuate some older   women who had fallen, he said. Then he saw the shooter. ’ ’   ”He was just kind of randomly shooting people,” he said. ”If you   were in his path, you were going to get shot. He was walking and   shooting.” ’ ’   Over the course of about 45 seconds, the shooter reloaded twice,   he said. When he was out of bullets, he walked away, dropped the   gun and lay face down, spread eagle on the floor, Lea said. ’ ’   By that time, a deputy had arrived and grabbed the shooter. Lea   put his foot on the gun to secure it. ’ ’   Lea went to help the injured and a woman from Iowa asked about   her husband, who she described. Lea saw a man who fit his   description behind a row of chairs, motionless, shot in the head   and lying in a pool of blood, he said. The man, Michael Oehme,   was identified as one of the dead victims on Saturday. ’ ’   Bruce Hugon, who had flown in from Indianapolis for a vacation,   was at the baggage carousel when he heard four or five pops and   saw everyone drop to the ground. He said a woman next to him   tried to get up and was shot in the head. ’ ’   ”The guy must have been standing over me at one point. I could   smell the gunpowder,” he said. ”I thought I was about to feel a   piercing pain or nothing at all because I would have been dead.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Santiago had been discharged from the National Guard last year   after being demoted for unsatisfactory performance. Bryan   Santiago said Saturday that his brother had requested   psychological help but received little assistance. Esteban   Santiago said in August that he was hearing voices. ’ ’   ”How is it possible that the federal government knows, they   hospitalize him for only four days, and then give him his weapon   back?” Bryan Santiago said. ’ ’   His mother declined to comment as she stood inside the screen   door of the family home in Puerto Rico, wiping tears from her   eyes. The only thing she said was that Esteban Santiago had been   tremendously affected by seeing a bomb explode next to two of his   friends when he was around 18 years old while serving in Iraq. ’ ’   Santiago, who is in federal custody, will face federal charges   and is expected to appear in court Monday, Piro said. ’ ’   It is legal for airline passengers to travel with guns and   ammunition as long as the firearms are put in a checked bag  —   not   a    —   and are unloaded and locked in a     container. Guns must be declared to the airline at  . ’ ’   Santiago arrived in Fort Lauderdale after taking off from   Anchorage aboard a Delta flight Thursday night, checking only one   piece of luggage  —   his gun, said Jesse Davis, police chief at the   Anchorage airport. ’ ’   ___ ’ ’   Associated Press writers Curt Anderson in Miami; Tamara Lush in   Pembroke Pines, Florida; Lolita C. Baldor and Eric Tucker in   Washington; Becky Bohrer in Juneau, Alaska; David Koenig in   Dallas; and Danica Coto in San Juan, Puerto Rico, contributed to   this report. ’ ’     ’