’  ’ ’   Donald Trump’’s denunciations of Obama’’s opening to Cuba while on   the presidential campaign trail and his continued insistence on   getting a ”better deal” with the long isolated island nation have    Cuba’’s rapprochement with the US. ’ ”   It remains unclear what kind of policy toward Cuba Trump will   pursue, but Cuba’s work toward expanding its economy and engaging   with the world faces an obstacle that is much closer than   Washington. ” ”   Cuba’s centrally planned economy has long been stunted by its   relative isolation from the rest of the world, and the country   has relied on its partners to support its citizens. ” ’   ”The economy of Cuba would’’ve collapsed under its own weight long   ago, as a consequence of population growth and an economy that   couldn’’t really accommodate that growth, had it not been for the      —   first the Soviet Union and then Venezuela  —   and   now both of those are essentially out of the picture.”  a professor of geography at the San   Diego State University, said on a recent   edition of   the    podcast. ’ ”   Cuba pursued some reforms in the 1990s, when the collapse of the   Soviet Union severed the lifeline of the support that Havana had   received from Moscow for much of the Cold War. With Hugo Chavez’s   rise to power in Venezuela in the 2000s, the island nation again   found an ideological and economic partner. ” ’  ’ ”   But as Venezuela’s own economic woes have plunged it into crisis,   Cuba has once more seen a vital ally fade. Improving relations   with the US helped boost remittances and the tourism sector,    of close to 3% on average   between 2011 and 2015, but Cuba’s economy is still largely tied   to Venezuela’s. ” ”   Raul Castro, who took over for his late brother, Fidel, in the     told Cuba’s National Assembly that the country’s   economy  in 2016. That decline came in   tandem with Venezuela’s, and it marked  since 1993 that official   figures showed a fall in GDP. ” ’   ”Restrictions in cash and in the provision of fuel”  —   which   Venezuela has long provided to Cuba and others in the region  —     ”worsened in the second half” of the year, Castro  in late December. ’ ’   ”Financial tensions and challenges that might intensify again in   certain circumstances will persist, but we hope that gross   domestic product (GDP) will grow moderately, by around 2 percent   (in 2017),” the Cuban president . ’ ’  ’ ’   In his remarks, Castro  that the country was ”not going, and   will not go, toward capitalism.” But he also  for a more welcoming attitude to   foreign investment and for more local production to replace   imports the country could no longer bring in. ’ ”   But any effort to support the economy with local production or to   expand it with foreign investment is likely to be hamstrung by a   significant and   issue: Cuba’s anemic population   growth. ” ’   ”So Cuba faces what we might call . .. a very certain future of   disaster if something doesn’’t happen, because the population has   reached a peak of about 11 million. UN demographers project that   it’’s going to go down,” said Weeks, who is the director of the   International Population Center at SDSU. ’ ’   ”The population size is going to go down, because the population   is aging, and the birth rate had been below replacement level for   quite a while,” Weeks added. ’ ’  ’ ”   Cuba’s birthrate fell to about  people in 2010, part of a     decline that has continued in the years since. ” ’   Moreover, according to  a considerable number of Cubans fall   into the   to   old age range, and about   of   Cubans are . All of which means the country   is poised to see a considerable number of elderly people in the   coming years, just as declining birthrates draw down the     population. ’ ”   Paradoxically, Cuba’s population problem has to some extent been   exacerbated by improving relations with the US. A wave of   migrants have left the island over the last two years,  that preferential   immigration policies toward Cubans arriving the US would end with   a new era of engagement between Washington and Havana. ” ’  ’ ”   Cubans who’ve remained  into the country’s   tourism sector, drawn by pay that exceeds the     salaries many other industries received. ” ’ in that sector has surged   (though that rising tide has  all Cubans). And both   remittances and the growing private sector have been  for Cuba. ’ ’   The government has  proficiency in English for   and   university students  —   a break from the Cold War policy that   mandated Russian instruction. ’ ’   The Castro government has also  to spur hiring. ’ ”   Some Cubans are  about what’s to come, but, despite   the government’s piecemeal reforms, young Cubans continue to see   brighter futures elsewhere. ” ’   ”It’’s very stagnant here,” Bryan Ponce, a    accounting   student,  journalist Tim MacGabhann in early 2016.   ”My plan is to get out of here as soon as I can, anyway.” ’ ’   ”I work 14 hours a day as a porter at a hospital, and I can’’t do   anything.” Gabriel Iglesias, 19,  MacGabhann. ”As soon as I can afford to,   I’’m leaving Cuba  —   I don’’t care where.” ’ ’  ’ ”   With the country’s economic contraction, attitudes like that are   sure to persist among Cuba’s youth, especially if the Castro   government pursues painful policies in response economic   struggles. ” ’   Castro, in his remarks to the National Assembly,  achieving GDP growth in the coming year   would require three steps: ”guarantee exports and their opportune   collection, increase national production to substitute imports,   reduce all dispensable expenses and use available resources   rationally and efficiently.” ’ ’   On the first point, as  by UNC Charlotte professor Greg Weeks,   ”opportune collection” is unlikely to be forthcoming from   Venezuela. And ”reducing all dispensable expenses” is a phrase   that may suggest unwelcome policies like rationing or other steps   to limit domestic consumption. ’ ’   ”So it’’s not sure exactly what Raul is going to do, but he’’s got   to do something,” said John Weeks, of SDSU, ”because the Cuban   economy and its demographics paint a picture that, unless people   come in, particularly American investors come in and rebuild the   island, it’’s going to crash.” ’