’  ’ ’   The US Senate is about to undertake a long evening session of   votes in the first step towards a repeal of the Affordable Care   Act (ACA) better known as Obamacare. ’ ’   The Senate will vote on well over 100 amendments to a budgetary   resolution in  ’ ’   The budget resolution and subsequent amendments being considered   tonight, in essence, will direct the Senate and House to come up   with a piece of legislation that would allow Senate   Republicans to repeal any aspect of the ACA that relates to the   federal budget. ’ ’   Republicans have chosen to use this route since a typical bill is   subject to a filibuster, that can only be broken by a 60 person   vote to end it. Republicans only hold 52 Senate seats. On the   other hand, the budget process starting Wednesday needs only   a simple majority of 51 senators to pass amendments   that directly involve taxes and spending. ’ ”   So, the aspects of the health law that can be addressed by   these votes include funding for subsidies that allow people in   the law’s exchanges to pay for their insurance, Medicaid   expansion funding, and more. ” ’’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The ACA repeal has become one of the top priorities for the     government since the election of     Donald Trump. ’ ’   Vice   Mike Pence and President Barack Obama met   with Congressional members of their respective parties last week   to strategize. ’ ’   In recent days, it appears that the GOP has begun to fracture on   their approach to repeal, with particular disagreements about the   replacement of the ACA. ’ ’   Many GOP lawmakers have said that they do not want to cause a   lapse in coverage for the over 20 million Americans that have   gained insurance through Obamacare. In order to do this, GOP   members have proposed waiting on a repeal until a full   replacement health care law has been created. ’ ’ that he   wants a repeal and replace to happen ”concurrently,” while other   GOP members have also pushed for repeal and replace at the same   time. However, if the original process of writing and passing the   ACA is any indication, crafting a replacement law could take   a while. ’ ’   Even  that he wants   to go ahead with a repeal and replace as soon as his nominee for   the Department of Health and Human Services Tom Price is   confirmed. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’