’  ’ ’   Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify in court on Tuesday,   January 17 for a potentially explosive lawsuit that claims the   Oculus VR startup he acquired for $2 billion was based on stolen   technology. ’ ’   The more than    suit against Facebook by game maker   Zenimax has culminated with a public trial by jury in a Dallas   court that began on January 9. Zenimax is seeking $2 billion in   damages against Facebook, which is the amount the social   networking giant initially paid to buy Oculus in 2014. ’ ’   Representatives for Zenmiax confirmed to Business Insider that   Zuckerberg will take the stand on Tuesday, followed by Oculus   cofounder Palmer Luckey later in the week. The trial began on   January 9; Oculus CTO and former Zenimax employee John Carmack   was the first to testify on January 10. ’ ”   Facebook tried to argue that Zuckerberg shouldn’t have to answer   questions about his acquisition of Oculus, but the case’s judge   overruled the request. Luckey’s testimony will be his first   public appearance since he  that created     Clinton memes in September. ” ’  ’ ’   At the center of the lawsuit is Oculus CTO John Carmack, who   previously ran a video game company within Zenimax called id   Software and is best known as the mastermind behind video games   like ”Doom” and ”Quake.” ’ ’   Zenimax has accused Oculus executives of knowingly stealing its   software and trade secrets through the hiring of Carmack and five   of his employees from id Software. It claims that Carmack   violated his employee agreement with Zenimax by sharing   confidential information that Oculus then used as the basis for   its VR software. ’ ’   A lawyer representing Zenimax, Tony Sammi, went so far as to call   Facebook’’s acquisition of Oculus ”one of the biggest technology   heists ever” during opening remarks to the jury on January 10. ’ ”   Facebook contends that Zenimax’s claims are without merit, and   that Zenimax only filed the lawsuit because it passed on   investing in Oculus before Facebook bought the company for $2   billion and an additional $800 million in employee retention   payouts. ” ’   ”Oculus and its founders have invested a wealth of time and money   in VR because we believe it can fundamentally transform the way   people interact and communicate,” an Oculus spokesperson told   Business Insider. ”We’’re disappointed that another company is   using wasteful litigation to attempt to take credit for   technology that it did not have the vision, expertise, or   patience to build. ” ’ ”   Zuckerberg, Luckey, Iribe, and other key Oculus employees are   scheduled to testify during the remainder of the     trial. They will be asked about how Facebook came to acquire   Oculus, the details of how the Oculus Rift headset was invented,   and whether Carmack violated his contract with Zenimax. Prior to   these testimonies, most of the case’s proceedings have been kept   secret and under seal by the court. ”