’  ’ ’   An unverified dossier provided to US intelligence officials   alleges that   Donald Trump ”agreed to sideline”   the issue of Russian intervention in Ukraine during his campaign   after Russia promised to feed the emails it stole from prominent   Democrats’’ inboxes to WikiLeaks. ’ ’   The dossier was part of an   project conducted   by  Christopher Steele, at the behest of     Republicans and, later, Democrats.   ’ ”   A summary of his findings, collected from the network of Russian   intelligence sources he had cultivated, was presented to Trump,   President Barack Obama, Vice President Joe Biden,  on intelligence matters   earlier this month as part of a classified briefing about   Russia’s intervention in the US presidential election. ” ”   The dossier’s claim about a   quid pro quo   alleges that Trump would refrain from speaking forcefully, if at   all, about Russia’s incursion into eastern Ukraine in 2014. In   return, Russia would provide WikiLeaks the documents it stole   from the Democratic National Committee (DNC). ” ’   Throughout the campaign, Trump broke from traditional GOP   orthodoxy and established himself as the most sympathetic   Republican candidate toward Russia, stressing the need to work   with the country on various geopolitical issues. ’ ’   Trump has not commented on the dossier’’s specific claims, but he   did tweet Saturday, citing a   news outlet,   that it was a ”complete fraud.” ’ ’   The  last year that   ”the Trump campaign orchestrated a set of events” just before the   start of the Republican National Convention on July 18 to change   the language of an amendment to the GOP’’s draft policy on Ukraine   that denounced Russia’’s ”ongoing military aggression” in Ukraine. ’ ’  ’ ’   It also proposed ” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”When I read my amendment, they got up and walked over and talked   to the   and they read it,” she said. ”That’’s when I   was told that it was going to be tabled.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Because campaign representatives are not permitted to publicly   debate the merits of an amendment at a subcommittee platform   meeting, Denman said the Trump staffers approached her privately   and asked her to change the language that called for sending arms   to Ukraine. ’ ’   One of the staffers, J. D. Gordon  —   then the Trump campaign’’s     policy representative for the RNC  —   told   Business Insider last week that ”Ms. Denman’’s memory of events is   inaccurate.” ’ ’ssigned side table, nor spoke publicly   at the meeting of delegates during the platform meeting.” ’ ’   The national security subcommittee’’s   Steve Yates,   told The Daily Beast however that he was ” ’ ’   ”I just can’’t say for sure what that opinion was,” he said. ’ ’   After some debate, the   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Gordon, the Trump representative, said that even after the   language was altered the platform ”still was much tougher    ’ ’  ’ ’   Including the call to send arms to Ukraine would not have been   extreme or out of step with GOP orthodoxy on the issue, however. ’ ’   ”The language of the original amendment didn’’t seem strong,” said   the committee member. ”Denman sent out an email before the   meeting saying she was going to propose the amendment at the   meeting, and no one replied  —   or, at least ’’replied all’’  —     saying they objected to it. I wrote back quickly saying I fully   supported it, actually.” ’ ’   The amendment, the official said, ”was  ’ ’   It was particularly surprising, the member added, given the Trump   campaign representatives’’ ”relatively   approach” to   other parts of the GOP’’s   platform. ’ ’   That approach seems to have extended to the six other   subcommittees tasked with crafting different parts of the GOP   platform before the convention.  ’ ”   Gordon, Trump’s representative for the national security   committee, said that every    ” ’   For his part, Trump’’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort told   MSNBC at the time that the change in the GOP’’s Ukraine policy   ”absolutely did not come from the Trump campaign.” ’ ”   Prior to the GOP’s national security committee meeting last July,   Trump had said multiple times that he thought the West should   respond more forcefully to Russian aggression. ” ’   He gave a speech in Ukraine in September 2015, at the Yalta   European Strategy Annual Meeting, where he said that ”our   president is not strong and he is not doing what he should be   doing for the Ukraine.” He mentioned that he thought Europe   should be ”leading some of the charge” against Russia’’s   aggression, too. ’ ’   But his tone on Ukraine and Crimea appeared to shift after he   hired Manafort to manage his campaign in April 2016, as . ’ ’   At the end of July, for instance, Trump  that ”the people of Crimea, from what I’’ve heard,   would rather be with Russia than where they were. And you have to   look at that, also.” Days earlier, he had told reporters that he   ”would be looking at” the possibility of lifting sanctions   against Russia for its annexation of Crimea. ’ ’  ’ ’   Manafort served  to a   political party in Ukraine   between 2004 and 2012, and helped the   strongman   Viktor Yanukovych win the Ukrainian presidency in 2010. ’ ’   Yanukovych was ousted on corruption charges in 2014 and fled to   Russia under the protection of the Kremlin. ’ ”   Secret ledgers  uncovered by an anticorruption center in Kiev and obtained   by The New York Times revealed that Yanukovych’s political party,   the   Party of Regions, earmarked $12. 7 million in   undisclosed cash payments to Manafort for his work between 2007   and 2012. ” ’   Manafort has denied ever having collected the earmarked payments.   But the unverified dossier on which top US leaders have been   briefed alleges that Y ’ ’  ’ ”   The  that Manafort, who resigned as Trump’s   campaign manager on August 19, served as a liaison between   Trump’s campaign team and Russian government officials: ” ’   That claim has not been independently verified. The FBI   ’ ’   The same source, ”source E,” told the author of the dossier that   Russia had hacked the DNC and leaked the stolen documents to   WikiLeaks ”with the full knowledge and support of Trump and   senior members of his campaign team.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump invoked WikiLeaks dozens of times on the campaign trail,   often reading portions of the stolen and leaked emails from the   Democratic National Committee and from Hillary Clinton campaign   chair John Podesta on the campaign trail. ’ ’   ”I love WikiLeaks,” in Pennsylvania in   October. ”It’’s amazing how nothing is secret today when you talk   about the Internet.” ’ ’   The dossier states that in return for Russia’’s feeding the   documents to WikiLeaks, ”the Trump team had agreed to sideline   Russian intervention in  as a campaign issue   and to raise defense commitments in the Baltics and Eastern   Europe to deflect attention away from  ’ ”   Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, has denied that the   Russian government was the source of the hacked documents. As   Business Insider’s  however, WikiLeaks’own website   seems to disprove his assertion. ” ’   ”The site’’s anonymous drop box keeps no record of who submits   documents, does not offer or require any identifying information,   and there is no single WikiLeaks employee with the power to   unmask an anonymous source,” Szoldra wrote. ”At least, that’’s   what WikiLeaks claims.” ’