’  ’ ’   The FBI has arrested the wife of the gunman who killed 49 people   at an Orlando gay nightclub last year, taking her into custody in   connection with the massacre, the US attorney general said on   Monday. ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   Noor Salman  —   the wife of Omar Mateen, who was killed by   police during the rampage at the Florida club in June  —   was   arrested at her home outside San Francisco, the  citing an unnamed law enforcement   official.  ’ ’   Salman faces federal charges of obstruction of justice, and   aiding and abetting the attempted provision of material support   to a foreign terrorist organization, ABC News reported, citing   the FBI and her lawyer. ’ ”   Salman, who moved to the San Francisco area after her husband’s   attack, is expected to appear in federal court on Tuesday. She   will then face extradition to Tampa, where she was indicted, ABC   reported.  ” ”   Salman  in November, in the presence of   her lawyer, that she wasn’t aware of Omar Mateen’s plans to   attack the Pulse nightclub in Orlando last year. ” ’   ”I was unaware of everything,” she said. ”I don’’t condone what he   has done. I am very sorry for what has happened. He has hurt a   lot of people.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The  differs from the story she   told the FBI as they interrogated her in the hours after the   attack. She initially  that she was with her husband when he went to buy   ammunition and a holster the night before he carried out the   massacre. ’ ’   Salman, a   who grew up in Rodeo, California,   told The Times that Mateen was physically and emotionally   abusive, often hitting her and calling her the Afghan word for   ”slut.” A nurse who has researched domestic violence and who   evaluated Salman’’s case after the attack told The Times ”she   would be totally oblivious to clues that he is getting   radicalized or planning anything.” ’ ’   Mateen, a US citizen born in New York to Afghan immigrants, was   living in Fort Pierce, Florida, with Salman when he rented a car   and drove to Orlando to carry out the attack. He was armed with   an   rifle and a handgun that he had legally bought   days before. ’ ”   Noor said Mateen gave her $1, 000 the day before the attack for   her and their    son to go to California, and then didn’t   come home for dinner. ” ’   Law enforcement sources  that Mateen had gone   further than that, adding Salman to his life insurance policy and   giving her access to his bank accounts. Those reports have not   been confirmed. ’ ’   Salman, who deleted her social media accounts shortly after the   shooting and has since avoided the press, corroborated some   preliminary reports in her interview with The Times. ’ ’   She confirmed that she and Mateen had met online on a dating site   called Arab Lounge. She also said that the final text she   received from Mateen  —   just before he was killed in a shootout   with Orlando police inside the nightclub  —   was a question: Had   she seen the news? ’ ’   Salman told The Times she replied that she had not. Mateen then   told her he loved her, she said, and that was the last she heard   from him. ’ ’   The shooting at the gay nightclub was the deadliest shooting in   US history, with more fatalities than the mass shooting at   Virginia Tech in 2007 and the mass shooting at Sandy Hook   Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, in 2012. ’ ’ Reuters contributed reporting. ’