’  ’ ”   Fox News anchor Chris Wallace confronted White House chief of   staff Reince Priebus on Sunday over the White House’s   dubious claims about the size of the crowd at Trump’s   inauguration. ” ’   During an interview on ”Fox News Sunday,” Wallace  noting that   Spicer insisted despite all available evidence that Trump   garnered the ”largest audience to ever witness an inauguration”   and did not take any questions. ’ ’   ”President Trump said in his inaugural address that every   decision he makes will be to benefit American families. How does   arguing about crowd size do that?” Wallace asked. ’ ”   Priebus argued that there was a media conspiracy to delegitimize   Trump’s presidency, claiming that media outlets were incorrect to   report on issues including Russia’s meddling in the US   presidential election. ” ’   ”It really isn’’t about crowd size. What it’’s about is   honesty in the media,” Priebus said. ’ ’   ”The media from day one has been talking about delegitimizing the   election. Talking about the Russians, talking about everything   you can imagine except the fact that we need to move this country   forward. ’ ’   Priebus claimed media outlets made sloppy errors. Time   Magazine reporter Zeke Miller, for instance, mistakenly sent out   a White House pool report on Friday asserting that the bust of   Martin Luther King Jr. was removed from the Oval Office, an   inaccurate claim that Miller quickly corrected. ’ ’   ”This is an explosive accusation which could’’ve had   incredible ramifications. . .. Turns out it was totally false,”   Priebus said. ”What did the media say? ’’Oh, our bad. ’’” ’ ”   But Wallace continued to press Priebus, saying Trump made   two separate inaccurate claims about the size of the inaugural   crowd during an appearance at CIA headquarters on Saturday.   Wallace also posted    pictures of Obama and Trump’s   inaugurations. ” ’   ”You talk about honesty. You say this is about honesty. But   there’’s another issue here though, Reince, and that is the   president’’s honest. Two things he said yesterday were just   flat wrong,” Wallace said. ’ ’   ”Take a look at those pictures,” Wallace continued, putting up   the pictures of Obama’’s 2009 inauguration and Trump’’s on Friday.   ”Which one is bigger?” ’ ’   ”You’’re also not saying that that picture was taken before he was   even speaking,” Priebus replied. ’ ’   ”I was there, I was there on the mall,” Wallace interjected. ’ ’   ”I was there too, Chris,” Priebus said. ’ ’   Wallace dubbed the conversation ”ridiculous,” but when   Priebus insisted that crowds stretched from the   congressional steps to the Washington Monument, Wallace urged his   producers to ”put up the picture again.” ’ ’   ”You can keep putting the picture up, wait a second. I could take   an aerial picture right now, Chris, and I can say, ’’Look at   the difference. If you’’re not comparing apples to apples, it   doesn’’t matter,” Priebus replied. ’ ’   After more    Wallace eventually said the   White House team was responsible for arguing about the size of   the crowd and could have highlighted other priorities instead. ’ ’   ”You’’re the ones who did it,” Wallace said when Priebus dismissed   the media for not covering the ”substance” of Trump’’s remarks. ’ ’   ”He could’’ve given a news conference yesterday, talked about   the agenda, talked about the executive actions he’’s going to   sign. He talked about crowd sizes,” Wallace said. ’ ’ ’