’    ’ ’  ’ ” DAVOS, Switzerland  —   As some of the world’s most influential   people wrestled with the implications of President Donald Trump   at the World Economic Forum this past week, a new face in US   politics grabbed their attention. ” ” Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper served as a representative of   the Democratic Party’s future here, just  and   Secretary of State John Kerry represented the past. ” ’ If this gathering is any indication, Hickenlooper may be on   the verge of building buzz as a 2020 hopeful. Several attendees   pointed to him as someone who could rescue the party after its   disastrous 2016 losses. ’ ’ One former Obama administration official suggested he could   be a Democratic version of Trump  —   both because of his quirky,      nature (as seen in a campaign ad ) and a laser   focus on   jobs and economic growth. ’ ” Hickenlooper has experience in both the private and the   public sectors. He  and   served as a popular mayor of Denver, Colorado’s largest city. As   governor, he has overseen the state’s challenge of federal law on   the legalization of marijuana for recreational use (an initiative   he was at first against but on which he has since changed his   views) and spearheaded a push for significant gun reforms after   the deadly 2012 mass shooting at a movie theater in Aurora. ” ’ Business Insider spoke with Hickenlooper at Davos. This   interview has been edited for clarity and length. ’ ”Brett LoGiurato: What’s the mood here at Davos   this year, given the inauguration of Donald Trump? ” ”John Hickenlooper: It’s definitely a different   energy. It’s a little more somber. ” ’LoGiurato: As a prominent   Democratic governor, what are you looking for from the president?   Do you see areas where you can work with him? Where are areas   where you want your state legislature to try to insulate yourself   from things he might try to do? ’ ’  ’ ”Hickenlooper: Well, I may not have voted for the   president, but I’m an American first. My entire administration is   going to do everything we can to make him as successful as we   can. We’re going to try to be active, strong partners with the   federal government. That being said, we went through a great deal   of work to expand Medicaid to a large number of people in   Colorado. We cut our percentage of people who had no insurance  —     we . We’re going to work really   hard to protect that as much as we can, make sure that we have   the support from the federal government to continue making sure   people have basic rights, basic elemental healthcare. ” ”   Also, I look at some of the things that the president will do   around cutting red tape, reducing bureaucracy, helping   entrepreneurs, helping businesses grow more rapidly, more access   to capital  —   I’m all for it. That’s all stuff that I’ve been   trying to do in Colorado. ” ”LoGiurato One area in   particular that seems  is on marijuana   legalization. Have you spoken with Trump’s pick for attorney   general, Sen. Jeff Sessions? Do you have a read on how he’ll   approach the issue, both with your state and moving forward more   broadly? ” ’Hickenlooper: I have not talked to Sen.   Sessions. I know that our two US senators, Michael Bennet and   Cory Gardner  —   we have a Republican [Gardner] and a Democrat  —     are both very focused on this. We look at it as one of the ways   in which states are laboratories of democracy. ’ ’   People don’’t realize that almost   of the population in   the United States lives in a state where either medical or   recreational marijuana are now legal.   of the country.   We’’re looking at it as kind of a 10th Amendment, states’’    issue. Although marijuana might be the wrong example for that.   Medicaid is a better example. It’’s one of the rare times where   Democratic governors are saying, ”Hey, states’’ rights.” We don’’t   want the federal government coming in and telling us how to do   our environmental remediation or how we’’re going to do our   healthcare. ’ ’  ’ ’LoGiurato: Do you think   marijuana will at least be decriminalized on a federal level? ’ ”Hickenlooper: Well, we’ll see. We’ve made a   tremendous amount of progress in terms of creating a regulatory   system from scratch [in Colorado]. If I had a magic wand when it   first passed three years ago, . You don’t want to be   in conflict with federal law. ” ”   That being said, we’ve now gone three years, and our voters   passed it by  . We’ve made a lot of headway. And if I had   that magic wand now, I’d wait a year or two. If we do this well   enough, we should see a dramatic reduction in the number of drug   dealers out there. You take away a big chunk of the product flow,   you’re going to need fewer salesmen. And there’s been no spike in   usage. There’s been no spike in . ” ”   We now have  —   again, in a $27 billion budget, $125 million of tax   revenue isn’t that significant, but it is money that we can use   for people with drug addictions and for rehabilitating people   that slipped off the tracks. Those are programs that are hard to   find money for outside of the   revenue. ” ’LoGiurato: Marijuana prices    amid a growing legal supply. Do   you have plans to address that on a taxation level? ’ ’    ’ ”   Hickenlooper: We’d like to get the tax level to the point  —   we   want the price to go down, because that’s how you get rid of the   black market. And we still have  —   some of the laws in the state   of Colorado, at least, people had the ability to grow up to 99   plants as caregivers. It’s crazy. How do you tell the gray market   from the black market? So we’re tightening up a lot of those   rules to make sure we can control and regulate the whole system   much more tightly. ” ”LoGiurato: I want to talk about   the future of the Democratic Party. I keep hearing your name come   up as a savior in 2020. What’s your read on what went wrong in   2016 and the early steps the party has taken to rectify its   losses? And are you supporting anyone to be ? ” ”Hickenlooper: [Laughs at 2020 mention.] We had a   very strong relationship with the Department of Labor, so [Tom   Perez] was a pretty easy choice for me [to be DNC chair]. We’re   doing an apprenticeship program that I think is one of the most   exciting things we’ve ever worked on. I just came from a meeting   with Microsoft and LinkedIn  —   Allen Blue and Brad Smith  —   and   they’re both going to help finance this. We’re also using   LinkedIn to partner with. How do you get people who’ve lost their   professions into new professions? It’s its own story someday! ” ”   But I think the political reality for the Democratic Party is,   you know, there are two sides. There’s one side saying that we   weren’t liberal enough and another side saying we’re too liberal.   I think they’re both right. ” ”   The Democratic Party is always going to be the party of civil   rights and fairness  —   everybody gets an equal, fair shot at the   American dream. And we’re going to be the party that really   fights to protect planet Earth  —   enjoy whatever time we’re going   to get! ” ”   But at the same time, there’s nothing wrong with the Democratic   Party that talks more about  —   and more loudly about  —   jobs, and   cutting red tape, and bureaucracy, making it easier for   entrepreneurs to start jobs, making it easier for businesses to   grow and create more jobs. That has historically been the   wheelhouse of the Democratic Party. Even as we continue to carry   the banner of civil rights and environmental justice, we’ve also   got to focus on many, many people  —   for them, life starts with a   good job. ” ’  ’ ’LoGiurato: I assume you want to   continue to be a loud voice in the future of the Democratic   Party. Do you have any plans as we head into the 2018 and 2020   cycles? ’ ”Hickenlooper: Nope. I’m not starting a PAC. I’m   not going out there and putting together a phantom campaign. In   two years, I think the workforce stuff we’re working on in   Colorado really has the potential to be a national model, so I   want to put a lot of energy into that. ” ”   We’re trying to make  —   have for the last four or five years  —     trying to make Colorado the healthiest state. So we’re   rolling out a lot  —   we’ll have an interactive map of every single   hiking trail in the state of Colorado. Everything there is.   You’ll be able to go out and, while you’re hiking, you can meet   up with other people on the trail, you can see other people’s   photographs. You can come back 20 years later and click on the   map and see all the pictures you took. It’s a pretty exciting   thing that hopefully will get people out walking. We’re trying to   put together kind of a governor’s fitness council to get every   single kid walking at least once a day. ” ’    ’