’’ ’At the heart of Turkmenistan’s Karakum Desert sits a crater of fire the size of a football field that’s been perpetually burning now for almost fifty years.’ ’’ ’’ ’Read on for a photo essay covering my visit to the ‘Door To Hell’:’ ’These ships of the desert blindly followed the motorway, chewing their cud, and didn’t show great respect to passing traffic. We also saw camel carcasses lining this same motorway, so it appeared that, for drivers, the feeling was mutual.’ ’Gas prospecting gone wrong, however, is the accepted explanation  —   Soviet engineers in 1971 bit off more than they could chew, drilling and hitting a gigantic underground gas cavern which then collapsed, forming a sinkhole and sucking the entire drilling rig into it. But nobody knows for sure. The Soviets allegedly concealed the extent of the disaster, leaving no paper trail, not even an incident report. As for fatalities? The official line is that there were none. But how we ‘know’ this, I am unsure.’ ’You may be wondering why steps haven’t been taken to either harness the crater’s energy or just extinguish it entirely. It’s likely because people simply do not care. Turkmenistan has the fourth largest natural gas reserves on earth, so an investment here at such a volatile site would be high risk, low reward prospect. If extinguished, the gas wouldn’t stop, you’d have to find a way to cap every fissure within proximity of the site, which would be expensive and inefficient. And, without that investment, dousing it would be  ; burning the natural gas is preventing its toxic components from lingering and hinders the methane’s potential as a greenhouse gas.’ ’As for the name? There’s an alternative theory. As the only light and heat source at night, animals are naturally attracted to the crater. It’s been said that camel spiders, seduced by its warmth, will approach and plummet to their deaths like a scene out of an apocalyptic, arachnid remake of the movie ‘300’. The stuff of nightmares.’ ’I must say, it did strike me how blasé we all became to the obvious risks. The edges were nothing but dry mud, and you could see it crumbling under your feet, yet taking that photo just a tad closer remained almost a magnetic enticement. Falling in would truly be horrendous, a painful death by asphyxiation, slowly cooked by the flames as the sounds of those panicking above are drowned out by its roar. You’d be helpless. I asked, and apparently no tourist has fallen victim, but there was an urban myth of one local who wasn’t quite so lucky.’ ’ ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’