’  ’ ’   ”The Oracle of Omaha” is regarded today as  with   lifetime giving topping $25 billion. ’ ’   But it actually took billionaire Warren Buffett several decades   to start donating his massive fortune  —   a decision his late first   wife Susan grappled with, according to the new HBO documentary   ”Becoming Warren Buffet.” ’ ”   In 1977, when their three children were grown, Susan left the   family’s home in Omaha, Nebraska, to focus on her charitable   work. ” ’   ”My mom moved to San Francisco and I think one of the reasons it   was so important for her to leave Omaha was because she just left   like she was kinda trapped in this environment, that everybody   knew who she was, and she couldn’’t have her own identity,” said   the couple’’s youngest son Peter. ’ ’   ”[My dad] knew that there was something [my mom] needed to do,   and that she really recognized that the money gave us all, and   her, a choice in a lot of ways that a lot of people didn’’t have,”   their eldest son Howard said. ’ ’   Susan chose to dedicate her time and money to charity, while   Buffett continued working and growing his fortune (the two   remained close friends, and legally married, until her death in   2004). ’ ’   ”It was a time where Warren was criticized. There was this very,   very rich man who was getting richer every year, and really   wasn’’t giving any money away and there was terrific criticism by   some people, which Warren never said anything about,” said Sandy   Gottesman, a friend of Buffett’’s, as well as an investor and   early backer of Berkshire Hathaway. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”That is a disagreement we have,” Susan said in an interview   recorded prior to her death, which is included in the   documentary. ”I run a foundation now. I think we should be giving   more money away. But I understand why we don’’t  —   because it’’s   business.” ’ ’   She continued: ”To me, the crux of it is: It wasn’’t the money   itself. You can see that in the way he lives. He doesn’’t buy huge   paintings or build big houses or anything like that. It’’s all   mental with him, and the money is his scorecard. He used to say   to me, ’’Everybody can read what I read. It’’s a level playing   field. ’’ And he loves that because he’’s competitive. So he’’s   sitting there all by himself in his office reading these things   that everybody else can read. But, he loves the idea that he’’s   going to win.” ’ ”   In 2006, two years after Susan’s death, Buffett ramped up his   giving, promising to gradually donate all of his Berkshire   Hathaway stock to philanthropy. ” ’   In 2010, he teamed up with fellow billionaires and close friends   Bill and Melinda Gates to start The Giving Pledge, vowing to   donate 99% of his fortune to charitable causes in his lifetime.   He  ”to date, 20% of my shares have been   distributed (including shares given by my late wife, Susan   Buffett). I will continue to annually distribute about 4% of the   shares I retain . .. this pledge will leave my lifestyle untouched   and that of my children as well. . .. And I will continue to live   in a manner that gives me everything that I could possibly want   in life.” ’ ’”The Oracle of Omaha” is regarded today as one. ..’