’  ’ ’   Diplomatic relations between the United States and Australia grew   surprisingly tense in recent days, after reports emerged of a    between President Donald Trump and   Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Wednesday. ’ ’   Trump accused Turnbull of using a recently brokered refugee   resettlement deal to send the US the ”next Boston bombers,”   calling the arrangement ”the worst deal ever” before hanging up   on him, according to . ’ ’   The fate of the refugee deal has been unclear ever since Trump   signed an executive order halting refugee arrivals into the US   for 120 days and barring travelers from seven predominantly   Muslim countries. ’ ’   The Australian government this week sought reassurance that the   deal will be honored regardless of the immigration ban. And   though the White House has said the deal will be honored, details   are still up in the air. ’ ”   Here’s everything you need to know about the deal that has   sparked a small diplomatic crisis between two usually friendly   nations: ” ’  ’ ’   Last November, the Australian government announced it had    with the Obama administration to   resettle in the United States refugees who are currently held in   detention facilities on two islands far from the Australian   mainland: Nauru and Manus Island. ’ ’   The exact number of refugees being resettled wasn’’t specified by   the Australian government, but White House Press Secretary Sean   Spicer pegged it at   —   not quite the ”thousands” Trump had   claimed in his tweet. ’ ’   The nationalities of the refugees have not been confirmed by the   Australian government, but  many are from Iran, Iraq, Somalia, and   Sudan  —   countries on which Trump recently imposed immigration   restrictions  —   as well as Afghanistan and Pakistan. Some of the   refugees are also stateless. ’ ’   Just two months before the deal was struck, the Australian   government  it would take in   from     detention facilities in Costa Rica. ’ ’   While the agreement is not explicitly a quid pro quo arrangement,   the two deals ensure the countries are essentially swapping   refugees with one another, with each country relieving the other   of the responsibility of detaining  . ’ ’   Australia has long been  by countries around the world  —   including the US  —     for its practice of turning back asylum boats, implementing   mandatory detention policies, and transferring refugees to other   countries. ’ ’   The average amount of time refugees are held in the detention   facilities is 469 days, and nearly   of those detained   have been held for more than two years, according to . ’ ’   Beyond that, the offshore detention centers have become infamous   for reports of   abuses and violence against   detainees, many of whom are children. ’ ’   Humanitarian workers who have visited the Nauru and Manus Island   detention centers allege that instances of violence, sexual   assault, and degrading treatment are commonplace, and many   refugees and   suffer severe   problems   due to their prolonged detention and uncertainty for their   future. ’ ’   Even North Korea,  slammed Australia at a United Nations     council session in 2015, saying it had ”serious   concerns” about reports of   violations at the   facilities. ’ ”   The deal for the US to resettle the refugees has therefore come   under some scrutiny, as it essentially legitimizes Australia’s   practice of intercepting asylum seekers and detaining them   instead of forcing the country to change its policies. ” ”   The US agreement to resettle the refugees has been given the   blessing of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees   (UNHCR) the UN’s refugee agency, which will help the two   countries in the resettlement process  —   but, like the     deal, it’s a   arrangement that likely won’t   be repeated. ” ”   The UNHCR maintains that Australia’s policy of detaining     offshore is illegal. ” ’   ”We, all of us, are very clear that this is a   good   offices, exceptional humanitarian type of involvement because we   do not believe that the future of handling this lies in sending   people to Manus Island and Nauru,” Volter Turk, assistant high   commissioner with the UNHCR, told  last November. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Turnbull government has been ironclad in its opposition to   resettling the refugees detained on Nauru and Manus Island,   arguing that the issue is one of border security. ’ ”   Although the country recently pledged to up its  to 19, 000 from 13, 750 in   most   of those arrivals are resettled through the UN’s refugee agency.   They arrive in Australia legally, whereas those who travel by   boat do so illegally. ” ’   Australia is loath to accept the   arrivals, on grounds   that successful   who make the journey by boat will   embolden others to attempt the same and perpetuate the business   of human smuggling. ’ ’   In fact, Turnbull is so opposed to allowing the refugees detained   on Nauru and Manus to enter Australia, his administration refused   to entertain an  to resettle 150 of those refugees per   year. The line of reasoning was that should those refugees   eventually gain New Zealand citizenship, they would also gain   travel rights to Australia. ’ ’   ”It’’s a   way to get into Australia, and would have been   a green light to people smugglers,” Australia’’s immigration   minister, Peter Dutton, told media last April. ’ ’   Even when Australia announced the refugee deal with the US,   Turnbull took pains to describe the situation as a ”    agreement” that would not be offered to future     attempting the journey to Australia by sea. ’ ’   ”We need to send, now more than ever, the clearest and most   unequivocal message to people smugglers and their     passengers that, if they seek to come to Australia unlawfully,   they will not succeed,”  at a November press conference announcing the   deal. ’ ’   Turnbull even announced a   ”” to enforce Australia’’s border in preparation for   the deal, lest the news encourage a wave of   to   attempt to travel to Australia by sea in the hopes that they,   too, can be resettled in the US. ’ ’   The government launched ”the largest and most capable maritime   surveillance and response fleet Australia has ever deployed,”   specifically to intercept boats of asylum seekers and turn them   away from the country. ’ ’  ’ ”   Australians have been wondering about the future of the deal   since the moment it was announced by Turnbull, as it’s no secret   that Trump has been opposed to allowing refugees into the US. ” ’   In the wake of the   phone call between Trump and   Turnbull, the White House has said it plans to  and apply ”extreme vetting” to all the   arrivals. Indeed, the executive order Trump signed barring all   refugees for 120 days included an exception for preexisting   international agreements, widely presumed to refer to the deal   with Australia. ’ ’   But recent reports from  and  indicate that US immigration officials have been   postponing interviews with   on Nauru, raising   speculation that the Trump administration is already seeking to   block or renegotiate the resettlement deal. ’ ”   It’s also unclear what   relations will look like   going forward, especially if the refugee deal collapses.   Australia has long been a strong ally of the US, and is the only   country to have fought alongside it in every conflict since World   War I. ” ”   Top Republican senators  on Wednesday and Thursday, and   Sen. John McCain of Arizona and Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee both   phoned Australia’s ambassador to the US, Joe Hockey, to reassure   him of US support. ” ’   And on Friday, Trump extended something of an olive branch to   Turnbull in a tweet: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThank you to Prime Minister of Australia for telling the truth about our very civil conversation that FAKE NEWS media lied about. Very nice! ’t’t’ ’Diplomatic relations between the United States. ..’