’  ’ ’   It is one of the hottest trends in investing. ’ ”   Often  it’s a new investing strategy that   uses algorithms to parse through reams of new data sets referred   to as  ” ”   Hedge fund managers in particular have always sought an edge over   competitors; now they’re vying for  or haven’t   thought of using. ” ’   This kind of data can . ’ ’   Still, many investment managers are struggling to put that data   to good use. Almost a third of hedge fund and asset managers   recently surveyed by Greenwich Associates said they had   ”difficulty   with data sets that are not   customized.” ’ ’   Funds are struggling to find the right people to hire to analyze   all the new data, says Matei Zatreanu, founder of System2, which   advises hedge funds on integrating alternative data to their   investment strategy. ’ ’   He helps run Augvest, which organizes events around alternative   data. Previously, Zatreanu worked on   efforts at King   Street Capital, a $19 billion New   hedge fund firm. ’ ’   Business Insider spoke with Zatreanu about the future of   alternative data and what kind of skill sets hedge funds are   looking for when hiring for the new roles. ’ ’ This interview has been edited for clarity and length. ’ ’Rachel Levy: What is the future of ? ’ ”Matei Zatreanu: In short, it’s the future of   investing. If you’re talking with people in finance programs  —     the Whartons of the world  —   and you ask those students in   investment clubs how they think about investing, to them it feels   natural that, obviously, you’re going to use any data to make an   investment. ” ’  ’ ”   The analyst is still in control, but now they’re augmented by   this data and technology. There’s still a human     but their decisions are now more accurate, more predictive of   what they’re trying to do. It just seems to me  —   and many others    —   like this is a natural progression of investing. ” ”   This is something that has been done for a long time, and there’s   definitely a history of people doing deep due diligence on   companies they’re investing in. With this data and technology,   they’re doing that, but on a larger scale. In general, once you   figure it out, it’s going to be the future of investing. ” ’Levy: What kind of people are hedge funds   looking to hire if they’re interested in building out their   alternative data teams? ’ ”Zatreanu: It’s an interesting question, because   you’re basically trying to figure out what the research analysts   of the future will look like  —   what the technologists and PMs   [portfolio managers] will look like. Each is a role that has   existed with most funds, and going forward we’re still going to   need them in some capacity, but they’re going to look slightly   different, if not fundamentally different. ” ’  ’ ’   What does a junior analyst look like? Right now it’s typically   someone who went to a good Ivy League school, then an     program at one of the top banks, then a hedge   fund poached them to analyze the fundamentals of companies. ’ ’   What we argue is that that’s no longer enough. They need to   understand math, statistics, and computer programming. ’ ”   They don’t need to be experts in these things, but they need to   have the language to communicate with people who are experts in   them. For instance, you’re not expected to work at Macy’s before   you can cover it and invest in it, but it certainly helps. You   need to go through the     to understand the subtleties, like   how to listen to the nuances in someone’s voice on an earnings   call. ” ’   We, as research analysts, have been abstracted from the   businesses. We’re sitting in our Midtown offices analyzing   businesses throughout the world that most analysts have never   stepped foot in. And yes, it helps to listen to the calls and   read through everything the company puts out, but on the other   hand, wouldn’t you much rather get much more granular on the   details of the operations of that company? And that’s what data   can offer, being able to look at how promotional a retailer is,   how the variance across the different locations around the world,   the differences understanding customers at a high level  —   not as   summarized on top line of a financial statement, but   understanding the individual customers. Like, ”Why has Rachael   continued shopping at Macy’s? Why has she stopped shopping at   some other store when another store came online?” ’ ’Levy: How would you be able to tell that Rachael   made that decision? ’ ’  ’ ”Zatreanu: It depends. You can look at a     data. That gives info on an individual person. The   huge difference is, unlike marketers, I don’t care that your name   is Rachael and that you live at a certain address. I just care   that a person with ID 345 used to shop at a Whole Foods but then    —   all of a sudden  —   an Aldi opens up in your neighborhood. ” ’   And now I see that person with ID 345 no longer shops there and I   see an Aldi transaction. That means that Whole Foods potentially   lost a customer. ’ ”   You can see what the customer loyalty looks like and how fragile   is that loyalty. As soon as the new sexy store opens up, do my   customers shift over? That can speak volumes to the future of a   company   …     but like I said, I don’t care that it’s you, whereas   the marketer does so they can send you advertising. I just care   about the trend at large. ” ’Levy: So it sounds like you need to have more of   a hybrid analyst who knows this data is out there, on top of the   other skills they’d already have. You have also said that   sometimes you have a hard time finding people who meet that   criteria and other skill sets, like finding people who could go   out and get the data. Could you speak to the challenges in   hiring? ’ ’Zatreanu: The skill sets that you now need for   an analyst or data scientist at a hedge fund  —   you need them to   have the typical   background, which is an   understanding of math and stats, computer programming, and also   domain expertise in finance. ’ ’   What I would add to that for our purposes is also someone who has   the soft communication skills. People who can go out there and   negotiate, and then a broader curiosity about how the world   works. Like you know, you’re picking up a rental car and you ask   the person at the desk a bunch of questions, like, ”How many cars   do you have in this garage now? How is business? How do your   systems work?” Those are the components of a successful data   scientist, analyst, whatever you want to call them. ’ ’  ’ ”   The problem is, we’re competing for those sills sets with the   likes of a Google or Facebook or some sexy startup, and there are   a lot of factors going against hedge funds  —   one of which is that   their very mysterious. They have very little publicity. They   don’t like to talk to the press. ” ’   Whereas the other startups are all about advertising. And telling   people who they are, and what they believe in. And that speaks to   the whole millennial ethos about wanting to work for something   more than the paycheck. It used to be extremely easy to hire at   funds. But that’s gotten harder. ’ ’   The funds realize they are competing with the Googles of the   world and they have to do these kinds of things to make   themselves look less like the villainous hedge fund and more like   the cool tech startup. ’ ’   It’s kind of interesting. A lot of it is psychology and optics,   because at the end of the day, it’’s the same problem. A lot of   funds were very sensitive about their use of   data   hitting the news because, you know  —   ”These evil hedge funds are   looking at my   statements knowing what I am buying.”   But at the same time, you have Mark Zuckerberg knowing everything   about you, including who you are talking to, who you like, and   not just that, but affecting the results of political elections,   by curating your news you have access to. It’s the same thing. ’ ”   You have rich guy Mark Zuckerberg using people’s private data   without them knowing it, but they don’t get vilified. For   whatever reason, if you’re a tech entrepreneur, you created your   money by creating a real tangible product as opposed to just   hedge funds, which are seen as gamblers. But it’s an interesting   PR battle they’re facing, especially after the financial crisis,   where they’re trying to attract the top minds of the field. ” ’  ’ ’   Before the crisis, they had no trouble hiring; now it’s much more   of a marketing push to figure out how to incentivize people to   join them. ’ ’Levy: Some people say, ”Quantamental is a big   trend, people are getting into it,” but they also say it’s   relatively easy to find people who can do this. Some critics will   say that, in the end, they all end up doing the same thing, doing     analysis of data without really understanding the   bigger picture. What do you think? Is quantamental going to   become crowded? ’ ’Zatreanu: Fundamentally, I disagree with that.   It’s easy to hire a physics Ph. D. and just say, ”Now I’’m doing   data science,” just checking the box. The problem is, those   people don’’t have the domain expertise. They’ve never worked in   finance. They don’’t understand what matters. It’s basically seen   like the head of the chess club arguing with the head of the   football team  —   the nerds versus the PMs, analysts, and traders.   The nerds will get stuck on some problem that is intellectually   stimulating and really interesting but has no business value. ’ ”   You can find people who have technical skills. The problem is   they don’t have the understanding of what matters to these   companies or how these investments get made. ” ’Levy: You’ve mentioned the social aspect as   well. What’s the challenge? ’ ”Zatreanu: Having good communication skills is   hard to find. Where that is important is sourcing data sets. Once   you’ve identified an investment thesis and the relevant KPIs [key   performance indicators] we’re trying to measure, we start the   discovery process, which is basically a   initiative,   where we will look at the data ecosystem, you have the target   company we’re interested in, and then we try to figure out who   their partners are, who their customer are, what charities do   they donate to, what invoicing systems do they use, what   technology do they use for their payment system. ” ’  ’ ”   Understanding all these components, where there might be data and   where that data might legally be purchased. Then after that, you   basically start calling them up and telling them this is what   we’re trying to do and negotiating that and convincing them that   it would be a good idea for them and figuring out a good price   for it. ” ”   It’s not a skill set most people have. It’s extremely important   when you’re trying to source a data set that no one has thought   of before and you’re talking with someone who has never heard of   a hedge fund before, and you have to explain to them why you want   to them to send you their database. ” ’Levy: Do a lot of these conversations start in   person? Do you have to fly out to Kansas or wherever? ’ ’Zatreanu: A lot of it starts over email or   LinkedIn, then an email, and after a phone call, we’ll go in   person. I’ve flown to Sweden, for example, to speak with a guy   who had a data company we were trying to get data from  —   also to   Hong Kong and Singapore. It’s one of those things where I value   conversations on the phone or in person much more than over   email. ’ ’Levy: So you’re trying to find someone who can   code, is an analyst, and can socialize. ’ ’Zatreanu: Not everyone on the team has to have   these skill sets. You can obviously compromise on one over   another. But if you’re talking about the person who wants to set   up these teams, they should have these skill sets. They might not   need to be an expert in programming or statistical theories, but   they still need to have intelligent conversations with the people   who are the experts, to call out the    . If your developer   tells you this is going to take forever, you can push back and   say, ”What if we do it this way?” ’ ”   If you’re a portfolio manager and you’re talking to an analyst,   you don’t understand the companies as well as your analysts do   because you’re not as into the weeds of it, but you can still   speak intelligently about it. It’s a similar kind of thing from a   management perspective. That person needs to understand a little   bit of everything. And then on the team you definitely need to   have people with these different skill sets. ” ’It is one of the hottest trends in investing. ..’