’  ’ ’   President Trump promised real change in US foreign policy, and in   at least one clear regard he has already delivered: Where   President Obama spent six years waging covert drone warfare in   Yemen and nearly two years quietly  in the   Gulf state’s civil war, Trump drew national outrage to this   heretofore ignored conflict in nine days flat. ’ ’   He did so by ordering a  to take out a leader of Al Qaeda   in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). When the dust cleared, one   American Navy SEAL and more than a dozen civilians were   dead. Among those killed was     a  who had the misfortune to be born   to al Qaeda propagandist and US citizen Anwar   whom the   Obama administration killed by drone strikes  one of his other children back in   2011. ’ ’   Americans’ new attention to US intervention in Yemen is rightly   focused on these details, especially the tragic and preventable   deaths. But if we only notice the particulars of this strike, we   run the risk of missing an alarming bigger picture: This raid   marked  the United States has put boots   on the ground in combat in the Yemeni civil war, and those SEALs   were sent into the line of fire without  authorization from   Congress. ’ ’   If that seems like a pedantic consideration, . This is a major new   development in a military intervention launched by the Obama   White House without public discussion or a declaration of war.   Obama started US involvement in Yemen secretly and illegally, and   to escalate to ground war —  to putting US troops in harm’s   way —  without so much as a   from Congress would be a   serious mistake. ’ ’   While it is true that AQAP is clearly linked to the Al Qaeda   organization responsible for   and thus targeting them under   the  for Use of Military Force   (AUMF) is more plausible than most of the uses the AUMF sees   these days, remember that Obama’s intervention in Yemen extends   well beyond Al Qaeda. ’ ’  ’ ’   Our primary focus is the Yemeni civil war, which has no real   connection to the terms of    AUMF. (Even targeting AQAP   without fresh congressional authorization is arguably a stretch:   It first became  eight years after  . How   could Congress authorize war against an organization that did not   yet exist?) ’ ’   The American public deserves the opportunity to debate whether we   want a new war waged in our name and funded by our money; and our   military at the very least deserves a    who   follows basic guidelines from our Constitution before risking   their lives on another country’s behalf. ’ ’   Congressional authorization is not too much to ask, and it is not   a frivolous request. It  as a valuable check on executive   power —  the very sort of abuse Trump says he intends to   fix —  bridling rash decisions from the White House and better   tailoring US foreign policy to defending America’s vital national   interests. ’ ’   That note of caution is especially important in Yemen, where   there are no direct US interests at stake. On the contrary, what   we find in Yemen is a convoluted mess, in which Washington is   supporting a   coalition that is  of war crimes, whose cause   the United States aids  an increasingly  than to gain any clear   advantage for ourselves. ’ ’   Worse yet, as ordinary Yemenis  thanks to Saudi  famine, AQAP —  the ruthless Al   Qaeda affiliate Trump’s raid was meant to combat —   thanks to the power vacuum the   civil war has produced. ’ ’  ’ ’   The war, and thus that vacuum, is unquestionably prolonged by   Saudi interference, which in turn is  US support. In short, not only is   US intervention in Yemen not defending any American interests, it   is counterproductively fostering the very terrorists Washington   seeks to suppress. ’ ’   Now that Americans are paying attention to Yemen, this should be   our demand: If the White House wants to maintain this  with no apparent value to US   security, it must make its case to Congress and the nation. ’ ’   And if Congress will not declare war, then President Trump can   and must extract American troops and end our military support for   Saudi Arabia’s intervention in Yemen before this recent raid   becomes one in a litany of unnecessary risks offering much to   lose and little to gain. ’ ’ This is an editorial. The opinions and conclusions   expressed above are those of the author. Bonnie Kristian is   a fellow at Defense Priorities. She is a weekend editor at The   Week and a columnist at Rare, and her writing has also appeared   at Time Magazine, CNN, Politico, Relevant Magazine, The Hill, and   The American Conservative, among other outlets. ’ ’President Trump promised real change in US. ..’