’  ’ ”   Four days into 2017, Medium’s employees came to work and were   told that   of them, 50 people, were fired. ” ’   They were shocked. Their adored boss, billionaire CEO Ev   Williams, best known as the cofounder of Twitter, seemed to care   so deeply for each of them. ’ ’   But he told the world about the  even before all the people who   lost their jobs were informed, a former employee tells Business   Insider. ’ ’   Some of them found out through industry buzz that they had lost   their jobs, one person told us. ’ ’   ”It comes down to how dysfunctional the place was,” one former   employee told Business Insider. This person said that before they   were let go, Medium was a ”dream job.” ’ ’   Medium, a blogging and publishing site, gained instant fame when   it was launched in 2012 because of its   founder.   Williams said its mission was to fix what he viewed as the broken   world of journalism and create a new model. ’ ”   But this latest change in its business plan  —   the company’s   second  —   burnt some people so badly that industry insiders have   growing doubts about Williams’ business judgment and are starting   to say the company is his vanity project. ” ’   In his post announcing the layoffs, Williams said the business   model Medium had been pursuing,   media, was   to blame for ”misinformation,” and that Medium would no longer   sell ads or help the publishers it hosted on its site with ad   revenue, and therefore it no longer needed the people it had   hired to work in those areas. ’ ’   He was in search of a new business model. ’ ”   As with the lack of communication with employees, some   advertisers weren’t told in advance about the change of plans   either, and they were upset. ” ”   And the move infuriated some of Medium’s publishers, who were not   warned and had bet their livelihoods on Medium and the business   model Williams was ditching. This model involved Medium cutting   them a check every month  —   a guaranteed minimum payment  —   and   helping them sell ads. That was over. ” ’   These people were now on their own to move to a new publishing   platform if they so chose. For publications not backed by venture   investments or rich owners who could afford to lose revenue, this   meant a bleak future. ’ ’   ”I like Ev. He’’s persnickety,” one publisher told Business   Insider. ”His ideas are interesting, and he does surprise me with   his thinking. He likes people who make things, including writers.   I did not think he would just pull the plug on publishing and   start     people. But instead he’’s like, ’’Your contract is up   in a while, and good luck. And I’’m going to fire a bunch of   people. ’’” ’ ”   Business Insider interviewed six people from all aspects of   Medium’s business, including former employees and customers. We   sent Medium an exhaustive list with the information in this   story. The company declined to comment, did not respond to   multiple   emails, and declined to make Williams   available for an interview. ” ’   The people we talked to told us: ’ ’   Medium was launched as a way for anyone to publish     articles on the internet. Williams has been at this mission for   decades. In 1999, before founding Twitter, he created a site   called Blogger. ’ ’   Although Blogger struggled financially after the internet bubble   burst, it was groundbreaking for its day, and Williams sold it to   Google in 2003 for an undisclosed amount (some say $20 million). ’ ’  ’ ’   With Medium, Williams was on a mission to clean up the mess that   blogging had become  —   and the misinformation and drivel it   attracted. He hoped to cure professional journalism of these   ills, too. ’ ’   ”The state of tech blogs is atrocious. It’’s utter crap,” he    in 2013. ”They create a culture   that is superficial and fetishizing and rewarding the wrong   things and reinforcing values that are   and   unsustainable.” And he said he was ”pessimistic about the state   of media, and that’’s why I want to work on this problem.” ’ ”   His idea back then was an algorithm that recommended     stories not based on clicks, but on how much time people spent   reading them. He didn’t know in 2013 how Medium would make money,   as is common for   startups, but he knew he didn’t want   it to be through advertising, which he viewed as one of the root   causes of the mess. ” ’   But after experimenting with business models, Medium launched an   ad sales beta program in April to sell limited types of ads, such   as a sponsorship of a series of articles. (For example, .) ’ ”   The startup had also been wooing publishers to move to Medium  —     to join the program and help increase Medium’s overall   readership. ” ’  ’ ’   At an  in April, Williams said: ”The entire point   of this phase of monetization for Medium is to pay publishers.   That’’s what we see as our job.” ’ ”   More than two dozen publishers bought into the pitch and moved to   Medium, including Bill Simmons’ The Ringer, Arianna Huffington’s   Thrive Global, ThinkProgress, Amy Poehler’s Smart Girls, and The   Awl Network. ” ’   ”To be fair, they didn’’t really make promises. They framed it as   an experiment,” one publisher said of Medium. ”We were like,   ’’This is a gamble and a weird lackey situation. It might go   badly, we know that going in, and that’’s fine. ’’ The one thing we   feared was that it would go so badly [and that it might] take our   business down with it. ’ ’   ”But we went with them because they insisted, ’’We are building a   business, we do want to work with independent journalism, and we   have enough time and runway to do it,’’” this person said. ’ ’   There was reason to believe that. Medium has raised $134 million   valuing the company at $600 million, including raising a $5o   million round in April when the beta program was announced. This   includes investment from Williams himself, as well as Spark   Capital, Andreessen Horowitz, and GV, according to Pitchbook. ’ ”   But despite Williams’ public commitment, the company quickly ran   into trouble fulfilling the promise. ” ’   The company had a serious discussion at its October board meeting   about its future. Shortly after, the guy running its ad sales   team, Joe Purzycki, resigned. ’ ’   And the   meeting in December did not have the usual   ”positive,  ” tone, an employee said. Instead, Williams   told the company that things were not going as planned. ’ ”   Ad sales are hard, but Medium had some early success. One of the   sponsored series had generated over six digits in revenue partly   because Medium could run these ads on multiple publishers’ sites,   one person said. It gave the business side hope. ” ”   But that didn’t last. When the year ended, revenue had fallen   short of projections, multiple people confirmed. ” ’   ”We were making money with publishers. We also made money with   advertising,” one person told Business Insider. ”But the business   we could have built, if we were to go   was not going to   justify Medium’’s valuation. That’’s a trap of venture funding. If   it turns out the market you find isn’’t big enough, you are in   trouble.” ’ ’  ’ ”   But there were other problems. The teams responsible for ad   sales, serving publishers, and creating ad features didn’t   collaborate and barely communicated, sources said. They were in   their own bubbles, fighting for resources. ” ’   Williams was more concerned with other things. ’ ’   ”Ev is not that interested in revenue, to be honest,” one former   employee said. ”He’’s driven by wanting to create this democratic   space for people to have a voice, for the best content to rise on   top. The problem that does not excite him is ’’How do I make   money? ’’ And he has the luxury in doing that.” ’ ’   Another told us: ”The work there felt meaningful, but yeah, we   were subject to a lot of quick changes of mind. That’’s fine in   the first two years when the platform is in beta and closed. But   once businesses and others start to use it and depend on it, it’’s   not so easy to do. And that’’s when some of the fracturing   started.” ’ ”   A publisher said that with Medium’s surprise change of plans,   partners like them took big hits. ” ’   ”Smaller publishers on Medium are in a bad way, and that’’s the   stuff I’’m pissed about,” this person said. ”I get it, and it’’s a   startup, but it’’s also not, because it’’s run by a       billionaire. Ev’’s vanity project? It has become one now, for   sure.” ’ ”   All the people Business Insider spoke to agreed: They admire and   like Williams. He’s a hard worker  —   first one in the office, last   one to leave. ” ”   Employees said they loved their jobs. It wasn’t just the perks   like free lunch and   meditation sessions; their CEO also   treated them as a doting parent would. ” ’  ’ ’   ”He’’s an amazing person to work with,” an employee said. ”He   challenged me in ways I didn’’t think were possible.” ’ ”   Williams listens carefully to ideas, then helps an employee look   at a situation from a new perspective. He encourages   experimentation and doesn’t penalize failure. ” ’   But Williams and his   strategy man, Ed Lichty, were   also both described as ”nonconfrontational” to a fault. They   didn’’t have the ”hard conversations” or do ongoing course   corrections to build a sustainable business, multiple people   said. ’ ’   Their messages to the staff were so consistently upbeat  —   and the   startup was so well funded  —   that employees felt complacent,   people told us. (Lichty, who has been with Medium for four of its   five years, is also leaving, multiple people said. Medium   declined to comment.) ’ ’   Yet this was the second time they changed business models. Medium   had previously toyed with being a publication itself, hiring   writers and editors. Then it shuttered that effort. Employees   were asked to voluntarily resign or relocate to other jobs. ’ ’   Even if Williams finally gets the business model right, at this   point he would have to rebuild trust and credibility in the media   world. ’ ’   The business model Williams wants to pursue next is some form of   subscription, . The idea is to become some version   of the Netflix of publishing. ’ ’  ’ ’   But Williams is also fascinated by the idea of a     business model known as patronization, one person told us. ’ ”   Williams enjoys hosting dinners at his house with people in the   journalism world like Katie Couric and members of Medium’s   publications, one person said. At one dinner, Tim Urban, the   author of the blog  discussed his dislike of ads. ” ’   ”There are no ads on the site cause ads are gross,” Wait But   Why’’s . ’ ”   Instead, Wait But Why is supported by patronization, meaning   posts are free but it asks readers to make a small monthly   recurring donation using a service called Patreon. Urban has   persuaded  to donate a total of more than $12, 000 a month.   That’s enough to give him a paycheck, pay an employee, and cover   some business expenses. He’s working on raising more money this   way, too. ” ’   ”Ev was so entranced by this idea,” one person told us. ”That’’s   great for Tim, but it doesn’’t scale. Also, it’’s a hard business.   Ev doesn’’t like ads? Wait until he finds out what credit card   processing is really like.” ’ ’   And while big questions remain about how Williams would turn   Medium into a credible business  —   not just for himself, but for   its publishers and employees  —   his investors are still in his   corner, wanting him to try. ’ ’   One of them,  a    says Williams has been   successful in the first important step: building an audience for   the site. ”Two billion words written on Medium in the last year.   7. 5 million posts during that time. 60 million monthly readers   now,” . ’ ’   ”If the company can figure out a way to do what it’’s attempting   to do, it’’s potentially a new lease on life for some current   forms of content,” . ”But more importantly, it opens up avenues for brand   new types of content that might otherwise never have existed.” ’ ”Four days into 2017, Medium’s employees came to. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’