’  ’ ’   The White House quickly denied an explosive  published Friday morning that said   the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) was seeking to mobilize   100, 000 National Guard troops to round up and deport immigrants   living in the US illegally. ’ ’   ”It is false,” the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer,   said, . ”It is irresponsible to be saying   this. There is no effort at all to round up, to utilize the   National Guard to round up illegal immigrants.” ’ ’   ”I wish you guys had asked before you tweeted,” Spicer added. ’ ’   An AP reporter, however, replied that the wire service had asked   the White House for comment multiple times before publishing the   report, which was based off of a leaked DHS draft memo.   The  notes that neither the White House nor the   Department of Homeland Security responded to requests for   comment. ’ ’   ”AP reached out to the White House repeatedly beginning 24 hours   before publishing this story and also asked the Department of   Homeland Security for comment prior to publication,” the   AP’’sWe stand by our reporting.” ’ ’   The incident reflects an emerging pattern noted by several top   political reporters in how the Trump administration handles its   most controversial policy proposals, and undermines the press in   the process: ’ ’  ’ ”   Following the AP’s report and the White House’s rebuttal on   Friday, NBC News politics reporter Benjy Sarlin  why the administration and the DHS waited to deny   the report until after it was published, despite apparently being   given the opportunity to comment. ” ’   New York Times political correspondent Maggie Haberman    that it was ”almost like there’’s a pattern here.” ’ ’   ”These are   spokespeople,” Haberman wrote,   referring to the White House and DHS press offices. ”If memo is   not under serious consideration, why not say it ahead of time?” ’ ’   ”Taxpayer press office that has hours to devote to focusing on   palace intrigue stories and profiles does not respond to routine   questions,” Haberman . ’ ”   Rep. Keith Ellison’s press secretary, Isaiah Breen, also noted   the pattern on Friday. ” ’   ”1. Get request for comment on a story. 2. Refuse to reply to   request for comment. 3. Deny once article is up, and don’’t   mention comment request,” Breen    in response to Spicer’’s statements. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Not answering the AP but then responding to the AP report by   saying it’’s wrong seems like a good way to perpetuate a fake news   narrative,” New York magazine’’s White House correspondent, Olivia   Nuzzi,    on Friday. ’ ’   ”The very fast, coordinated denial of this story is almost as if   they wanted it to hit the wire before shooting it down,”    chief White House correspondent, Shane Goldmacher, said. ’ ”   The White House has not responded to the AP’s assertion that it   did not respond to requests for comment, and official comments   published after the initial AP report have done little to clear   up the confusion. ” ’   A DHS representative told Business Insider that the AP report was   ”incorrect” and that the department was ”not considering   mobilizing the National Guard for immigration enforcement.” But   another DHS official  producer Dorey Scheimer that the immigration memo   was ”a very early, pre decisional draft. .. and was never   seriously considered by the Department.” ’ ’ by the AP titled ”Implementing the   President’’s Border Security and Immigration Enforcement   Improvements Policies” appears to have been written by DHS   Secretary John Kelly and dated to January 25. But it does not   mention the AP’’s estimate that 100, 000 National Guard troops   would be deployed. ’ ’   The general confusion stemming from leaked memos and subsequent   denials from the administration is not new. ’ ’   Draft memos outlining changes to the country’’s ”religious   freedom” laws that would allow businesses to discriminate against   the LGBT community were shot down by the administration shortly   after they were leaked, as were memos detailing the possible   reinstatement of overseas CIA ”black sites.” ’ ’   On both occasions, Spicer said the memos were ”not White House   documents” and had not yet crossed the president’’s desk. ’ ’   On Friday, Spicer contended that the leaked immigration memo   published by the AP was ”not a White House document,” according   to the pool report, but acknowledged that he didn’’t know whether   the draft memo had ever been considered by the DHS. ’ ’   ”I don’’t know what could potentially be out there, but I know   that there is no effort to do what is potentially suggested,” he   said. ’ ’   The leak of the LGBT memo, meanwhile, allowed Trump’’s daughter   Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner  —   Trump’’s senior adviser  —     to take  for ”sinking” a plan the administration said ”would   never have reached the president’s desk for his signature” in the   first place. ’ ”   Similarly, Spicer denied that a draft memo leaked last month   proposing that the Guantanamo Bay detention facility remain open   and that the CIA’s secret overseas prisons be reinstated was a   White House document. ” ’   Responding to the bipartisan backlash over the draft, however,   the White House  among National Security   Council staff members that removed language about the black sites   being reopened, according to The New York Times. ’ ’   Washington Post reporters Radley Balko and Louisa Loveluck said   on Friday that the leaks themselves appeared to be part of a   strategy. ’ ’   ”Leak an abhorrent policy under consideration. Refuse comment   when queried. After publication, declare policy absurd, scold   media. Repeat,” Balko . ’ ’   ”1: Float outrageous draft plan. 2: Watch media explode. 3: Deny,   pursue less bad option. 4: Tell base the discredited media did it   again,” Loveluck . ’ ’The White House quickly denied an explosive. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’