’  ’ ”   Snapchat executives in New York were peppered with questions on   Tuesday about competition from Facebook, user growth for the     app, and accessibility in less developed   markets as they pitched prospective investors on the company’s   shares. ” ”   Snap Inc. Snapchat’s parent company, is looking to raise as much   as $3. 2 billion in a   initial public offering.   The executives are traveling from London to San Francisco as they   try to drum up interest in the sale. ” ’   Tuesday’’s meeting, on the 36th floor of the Mandarin Oriental   hotel in New York City’’s Columbus Circle, drew a      crowd of nearly 500 people that one investor   said included ”the entire hedge fund mafia.” ’ ”   Inside the hotel ballroom, guests bearing the bright yellow IPO   pitchbooks distributed at the event were treated to a light, if   uninspired, lunch paired with heady prognostications by Snap’s   management. ” ”   While attendees nibbled on turkey sandwiches and caesar salad   wraps, Snap’s    CEO Evan Spiegel, chief strategy   officer Imran Khan, and CFO Drew Vollero answered questions from   the crowd, according to people who attended the event. ” ’  ’ ’   The meeting lasted less than an hour and consisted entirely of a      session. The company had already released an   introductory video online on Friday. ’ ’   Snap, which aims to begin trading on March 2, is seeking a   valuation of between $19. 5 billion and $22 billion. The offering   is one of the largest tech IPOs in years and is being compared to   past   internet IPOs such as Facebook, Alibaba, and   Twitter. ’ ’  ’ ”   But while Facebook’s stock has soared since its offering, Twitter   has languished. And guests at Tuesday’s roadshow in New York did   their best to get a read on which trajectory Snap would take   after its Wall Street debut. ” ”   Snap’s sudden slowdown in user growth, which could echo the   trouble that has plagued Twitter, appears to be among the top   concerns on the minds of prospective investors. ” ’   One investor at the event told Business Insider the mood in the   room was ”respectful but somewhat skeptical.” ’ ’   The investor said they did not plan to buy Snap shares unless the   company lowers the price. ’ ’   The questions were tough, according to investors at the meeting   that Business Insider spoke to. Here are the main takeaways from   a handful of money managers who attended the roadshow. They all   asked not to be identified. ’ ’   Still, attendance at the event illustrated the buzz and interest   surrounding the company. Roughly   of attendees were   seated at round tables in the front of the ballroom, while others   filled narrow rows of seats, packed tightly, in the back of the   room. ’ ’   One hedge fund investor told Business Insider that despite   concerns raised, he is still looking to buy Snap shares. This   investor said the valuation is a fair price. ’ ’   ”It’’s not that crazy when you think about the total . .. market   they’’re trying to go after,” this person said, referring to the     market taking share from traditional   broadcasters. ’ ’Snapchat executives in New York were peppered. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’