’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s former senior trade adviser told   Business Insider the   tax proposal being   discussed in Washington could help solve what he believes are   major issues with the North American Free Trade Agreement. ” ”   Dan DiMicco, the former Nucor CEO and Coalition for a Prosperous   America board member who ran Trump’s trade transition team, said   a   tax plan on imports from Mexico could   help balance the Mexican   tax on exports   into the country.  ” ’   Trump has previously chided the trade situation, saying in a   September debate: ”When we sell into Mexico, there’’s a tax. . ..   When they sell into us, there’’s no tax. It’’s a defective   agreement.” ’ ’   Mexico has a 16%   tax American companies must pay on   exports in Mexico, and there is no corresponding tax on Mexican   companies importing into the US. However, Mexican companies have   to pay the same tax on products sold within the country. ’ ”   Trump and DiMicco’s viewpoint is  by Peter Navarro, the head of the newly   formed White House National Trade Council, and Wilbur Ross,   Trump’s nominee to lead the Commerce Department. The proposal   has been shot down by economic experts who say it’s a    of how the VAT system   works.  ” ’’ ’   Additionally, the   tax on imports would likely   be passed onto consumers in the form of higher costs at the point   of purchase of imported goods to help offset losses. ’ ’   DiMicco outlined other issues he saw with NAFTA, many of   which were related to ”exorbitant” Mexican duties.  ’ ”   During a recent meeting at the White House between Trump and   Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, the pair of leaders   answered questions related to NAFTA and Trump’s promises to   renegotiate the deal. ” ’   Asked about the Canadian end of the agreement, Trump  effect on     trade relations is ”a much less severe situation than what’’s   taken place on the southern border.” ’ ’   DiMicco concurred with Trump, saying Mexico ”has got a lot more   issues than Canada has.” ’ ’   ”But they both have some issues,” he said. ’ ’   While campaigning and in public statements following his   electoral victory, Trump promised a renegotiation of the trade   agreement within his first 100 days in office. However, under the   Fast Track Trade Promotion Authority, Trump missed the deadline   to give notice to Congress to be able to start a renegotiation   within that timeframe.  the renegotiation   within the first 100 days of his administration, Trump had to   give Congress notice by January 31. ’ ’   DiMicco, who said he still informally advises the administration,   said the delaying the confirmations of Trump’’s cabinet  —     particularly as it relates to Ross and Robert Lighthizer, Trump’’s   choice for US trade representative  —   has made it increasingly   difficult to ”get the current details” on Trump’’s trade   agenda. ’ ’   ”Yeah, so nobody is willing to talk,” DiMicco said was a result   of the delayed confirmations. ”You can’’t get the current details   because the Democrats have held up the whole damn process!” ’ ”President Donald Trump’s former senior trade. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’