’  ’ ’   Sean Spicer, President Donald Trump’’s press secretary, warned the   burgeoning US marijuana industry that there will be ”greater   enforcement” of federal laws.  ’ ’   ”I think that’’s a question for the Department of Justice  —   I do   believe that you’’ll see greater enforcement of it [marijuana],”   Spicer said during Thursday briefing, responding to a   question regarding the   conflict of marijuana   laws. ’ ”   Marijuana  —   both recreational and medical  —    though it’s illegal at the   federal level, creating a conflict between state and federal   regulations.  ” ’   Jeff Sessions, the attorney general, has been . ’ ”   However, Rep. Dana Rohrabacher ( )  that would resolve     conflicts earlier this month, that frames the   issue around state’s rights, a common rallying cry for   Republicans.  ” ’   ”There’’s a big difference between medical use. .. and recreational   use, which is something the Department of Justice will be further   looking into,” Spicer said.  ’ ’   Spicer further said that the federal policy towards medical   marijuana is ”very different” than for   recreational   marijuana. ’ ’   Spicer brought up a 2014 congressional appropriations rider that    with   medical marijuana. The   provision  —   the   —   prevents the federal   government from cracking down on   medical   marijuana businesses.  ’ ’   The Justice Department was  in   California based on the guidelines stipulated by the     Amendment last year.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Mark Kleiman, a professor of public policy at New York   University,  that while the Justice   Department could ”destroy the legal market overnight,” it   would create a ”mess,” and would be replaced by an ”illegal   market.”  ’ ’   ”If a state doesn’t want to enforce its cannabis laws, the   Federal government really cannot step into those shoes,” Kleiman   said.  ’ ’   Spicer further made a dubious connection between   recreational marijuana and the opioid addiction crisis that’’s   ”blossoming” in a number of states. ’ ’   ”The last thing we should be doing is encouraging people,” Spicer   said. ”There’’s still a federal law that we need to abide by when   it comes to recreational marijuana and other drugs of that   nature.” ’ ’   Some research even suggests that medical marijuana could actually    for   pankillers.  ’ ’   Spicer, however, clarified that Trump understands the ”pain   and suffering,” that many people facing terminal diseases go   through, and the ”comfort” that drugs like medical marijuana can   provide patients.  ’ ’   Trump himself indicated on the campaign trail that  but his Administration has not outlined an offical   position on the issue.  ’ ’   Fighting recreational marijuana may prove to be an unpopular   move. A  released on Thursday indicates that   59% of voters think marijuana should be legalized, with 76% of       in favor of legalization. ’ ’   And, perhaps the issue with the most bipartisan support  —   93% of   voters support allowing doctors to prescribe medical   marijuana.  ’ ”Sean Spicer, President Donald Trump’s press. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’