’  ’ ”   By now you’ve probably seen the big geology news: Earth has a    and it’s been hiding   from us for ages. ” ”   What’s less widely known about the discovery, however, is how it   came about  —   and what it means for we humans who live on top of   the rocks. ” ’   Zealandia, which spans roughly 4. 9 million square kilometers (1. 9   million square miles) and is about 95% underwater, was a   revelation more than a   in the making. And like many   geologic discoveries, it began with the human drive to   mine natural resources. ’ ’   ”Calling Zealandia a continent is more of a formality and mostly   a scientific interest,” said study   Vaughan Stagpoole, a   geophysicist and head of the marine geoscience department at    a New     research institute. ’ ’   ”In terms of the economic benefits” like minerals, oil, and gas,   he said, ”that was established a while ago.” ’ ’   And yet New Zealand and New Caledonia, a French territory, are   only just beginning to establish what’’s down there other than a   lot of continental crust; Stagpoole says it’’s a vast, mostly   unexplored, and ”extreme frontier”  —   one that could hide untold   riches. ’ ”   Here’s how scientists found Zealandia and why it’s so important. ” ’  ’ ”   The  marked the beginning of New Zealand’s offshore drilling   efforts and the discovery of the continent Zealandia. ” ”   Since that time, the country’s  per capita has since grown to 30% that   of US output, and it’s a significant economic boon for the island   nation. In fact, the government now leases about 200 wells and   pulls in  worth of royalties a year. ” ’   ”Oil remains a significant export earner in New Zealand and   natural gas is a vital input to industry, electricity generation   and is used in more than 300, 000 homes,” Simon Bridges, New   Zealand’’s energy and resources minister, said in . (Though we’’ll note that many locals are     with   the  posed by offshore drilling.) ’ ’   Oil prospectors and geologists alike in the  wondered if there might be more continental   crust  —   and the oil it conceals  —   lurking deep below the ocean   around New Zealand and New Caledonia. ’ ”   So in the early ’70s, they began drilling samples from the ocean   bottom and pulling them up. ” ’   Lo and behold, the rocks seemed continental in nature, and   remarkably similar from one region to the next. Evidence for more   and larger tracts of continental crust hidden on the ocean bottom   mounted with each new expedition. ’ ’   Looking at the data in 1995,    a geophysicist at the University of California at Santa Barbara,   coined the term ”Zealandia.” ’ ’ ’ ”   Luyendyk never intended Zealandia to be a new continent’s name. ” ’   Rather, he used it to describe New Zealand, New Caledonia, and   the growing number of submerged chunks of crust that broke off a   region of  a 200    supercontinent. ’ ’   ”The reason I came up with this term is out of convenience,”   Luyendyk previously told Business Insider. ”They’’re pieces of the   same thing when you look at Gondwana. So I thought, ’’Why do you   keep naming this collection of pieces as different things? ’’” ’ ’  ’ ’   At around the same time Luyendyk wrote down ”Zealandia,” New   Zealand joined a United Nations treaty called the  (UNCLOS) which helped spur   the continent’’s discovery. ’ ’   Importantly, UNCLOS defines five maritime zones  —   one of which   hinges on a ”continental” definition (more on this in a moment). ’ ’  ’ ’   The ”territorial sea” zone extends about 12 miles offshore.   Countries get tight control over most things that happen there,   including drilling, fishing, boating, flights, and immigration. ’ ’   Between 12 and 200 miles, there’’s the ”economic zone” where   Stagpoole says ”vessels can pass through without any permission”   yet the country retains many drilling and fishing rights. ’ ”   Beyond 200 miles, it’s a sort of a Wild West. ” ’   However, a piece of that treaty called ”” says that   a nation can lay claim to a continental shelf’’s drilling and   mining rights  —   if they can prove it’’s connected to their nation. ’ ’   So New Zealand and other nations set out to explore just that in   the late 1990s through the early 2000s, came back with a pile of   evidence, and the UN agreed with its final border claims in 2004. ’ ’   It was a huge seafloor land grab for New Zealand, in that the   nation significantly expanded its resource extraction rights   (area between the yellow and red borders, below). ’ ’  ’ ’   The effort amounted to a lot of drilling samples, satellite   imagery, seismic scans, and other information about the seafloor   of Zealandia. ’ ’   Stagpoole says this data eventually led to further scientific   studies, including  on the Tasman Frontier: ”a vast submerged   continental fragment of over 3, 000, 000 sq km [1. 16 million square   miles] between Australia, New Zealand and New Caledonia.” ’ ”   That work begged the question: Are these all just Gondwana’s   continental fragments, or all part of an unrecognized continent? ” ’  ’ ”   Stagpoole and his colleagues  of Zealandia’s continent status in the     2017 issue of GSA Today, a Geological Society of   America journal. ” ’   ”I think they’’ve put together a solid collection of evidence   that’’s really thorough,” said Luyendyk, who wasn’’t involved in   the new study. ”I don’’t see that there’’s going to be a lot of   pushback, except maybe around the edges.” ’ ’   Despite the fact that New Zealand has been selling off drilling   permits to Zealandia with its ”” program since 2012, Stagpoole says no one is exactly   sure what Zealandia has to offer, or where. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We’’re still trying to understand the tectonic history,”   Stagpoole said. ”New Caledonia, Germany, Australia, and other   nations are regularly exploring this region to understand the   question about how continental crust is formed, and understand   the geologic history of this particular continental crust.” ’ ’   He said it will take more    expeditions to figure out   what treasures Zealandia hides  —   likely pockets of oil, precious   metals, and other extractable resources. ’ ’   ”If you plotted all of the scientific ship trips so far, they can   be hundreds of kilometers apart,” he said. ”There are huge gaps   in our understanding of what’’s down there.” ’ ”   For now, Stagpoole said it’s a technology and   issue:   getting enough   instruments deployed on enough ships. ” ’   ”This is extreme frontier,” he said. ”As we get better at   exploring the deep oceans, these things may become more   economic.” ’ ’Zealandia is a new and mostly submerged. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’