’    ’ ”   ATLANTA  —   In an extremely close race that went to multiple   rounds of balloting, former Labor Secretary Tom Perez was   elected Saturday to head the Democratic National Committee,   ending the   jockeying for the top spot in the   Democratic Party’s election arm. ” ’   Perez was elected with 235 votes, narrowly defeating Rep.   Keith Ellison. South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg and   Idaho Democratic Party chair Sally Boynton Brown, who also ran,   dropped out on Saturday. ’ ’   During the first round of voting, Perez fell just one vote short   of the number needed to win the chair. ’ ’   In his first motion as chairman, Perez moved to make Ellison the   deputy chairman of the DNC, a new position. He praised the   Minnesota congressman at length, emphasizing that the Democratic   Party needed to come together and comparing the rifts in the   party to a ”spirited” political discussion over Thanksgiving   dinner. ’ ’   ”When I was looking in the audience, there was someone holding up   a sign that says ’’Unite. ’’ And I could not agree more. For the two   of us, that is easy, because we were always united in our   values,” Perez said. ”And we are united in our love for the   Democratic Party.” ’ ’’ ’   The decision came after a contest which some viewed as a   rehash of the 2016 presidential primary, with Perez garnering   support from establishment figures like former Vice   President Joe Biden and former Attorney General Eric   Holder and Ellison representing the ascendant progressive   wings of the Democratic Party. President Barack Obama, under whom   Perez served, congraulated him on the victory, as did 2016   Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   ”Congrats to @DNC chair @TomPerez & deputy @keithellison.   Excited for strong, unified party standing for best of our   country into the future,” Clinton tweeted. ’ ”   Some close to Ellison felt the congressman’s victory would have   rectified the DNC’s  of Sen. Bernie Sanders during the primary, in which   some DNC staffers appeared to favor Clinton over the Vermont   senator. ” ’   ”The mood is that the previous leadership of the DNC was biased   toward one candidate, and biased against another candidate,”   Brian Ellison, Keith’’s brother, said shortly before the vote. ’ ’   ”It’’s not even about Tom Perez. It’’s about Obama,   Hillary, and the people feeling slighted from Bernie Sanders’’   slight,” he added. ’ ’   Standing onstage after Perez’’s victory, Ellison called for unity   within the Democratic Party, telling supporters that Democrats   ”don’’t have the luxury to be divided.” ’ ’   ”I’’m very very proud of Chairman Perez. He conducted himself with   class, grace,” Ellison said. ”If you came here supporting me . ..   I’’m asking you to give everything you’’ve got to support Chairman   Perez.” ’ ’   Some members were unconcerned with the perceived rehash of the   primary fight. ’ ’   ”There’’s a little bit of [animosity] between Tom and   Keith and their supporters. But I think we are getting beyond   it,” said Gary Winston Apple, a DNC member from Missouri who   supported Ellison.  ’ ’   Others noted that chairs need to focus on uniting the   party.  ’ ’   Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, who backed Perez, dismissed that   the contest was a ”proxy war,” but advised the chair to call   members who did not vote for him to offer an olive branch. ’ ’   ”Call every other person who voted for someone else and say ’’This   is also your party and you’’re just as important and I want to   work with you,’’” Garcetti told Business Insider on Friday.  ’ ’   He added: ”Whoever wins should be calling everybody else and   saying, ’’Let’’s make sure we’’re unified. ’’” ’ ’ATLANTA  —   In an extremely close race. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’