’  ’ ’   On Saturday morning, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to   point out a fact he thought the media was underreporting: the   decrease in the national debt in his first month. ’ ’   ” ’ ”   The tweet, which  an   hour before, doesn’t make sense for a few reasons. ” ’   First, it is true that the debt has probably ticked down but    this is mostly due to the   federal government rebalancing its     holdings. Debt outstanding to the public  ’ ’   Additionally, the federal government is still operating under the   budget passed before Trump came into office, so even if the   overall debt decreased, his administration had little to do   with it. ’ ’’ ”   Finally, and most importantly, the economic circumstances during   his and Obama’s first month in office are vastly different and   make the comparison totally off base. ” ’   When Obama took office in January 2009, the country was in the   midst of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.   The US economy, GDP growth   collapsed, and foreclosures soared. ’ ’   In response to this crisis, Obama did what presidents typically   do during recessions: took on debt to stimulate the economy. ’ ’   In the depths of a recession, private investment collapses. So,   generally accepted economic theory concludes that the government   should induce investment and step in during these times of crisis   to prop up the stumbling private sector. ’ ’   Thus, both Obama and his predecessor George W. Bush signed into   law bills to inject large amounts of capital into the economy to   both save the financial sector and get people back to work. ’ ’   For instance, Bush passed the Troubled Asset Relief Program   in October 2008 which used just over $426 billion in federal   funds to ”bail out” the country’’s largest banks. Obama signed the   American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February 2009 which   allocated $831 billion in federal funds to finance investment   projects such as infrastructure. ’ ’   By contrast, Trump has inherited  —   as he even noted  —   a country   with a vastly improved economic standing. ’ ”   The labor market has improved drastically, with unemployment at   just 4. 8% and the number of people claiming unemployment benefits   nearing the lowest point in 40 years. In fact, during Obama’s   term the US added over 11 million private sector jobs.  ” ’   Things outside of the labor market are pretty solid as well.   Corporate profits have  highs and  from its bottom in   March 2009, and the housing market is growing again. ’ ”   While it’s not all perfect  —   business investment is lagging,   wages still haven’t hit   levels, and economic gains   have not been equally distributed throughout the country  —   there   is no doubt that Trump inherits a better economic starting   position than Obama did in 2009 with no reason to spend massive   amounts of federal money to assist the economy. ” ’   Trump even noted these differences in a   tweet. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’On Saturday morning, President Donald Trump. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’