’  ’ ’   Asked about a wave of recent   attacks, President   Donald Trump told a group of state attorneys general on Tuesday   that attacks are sometimes carried out in ”the reverse” in order   ”to make people  —   or to make others  —   look bad,” according to   Democratic Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro, who was at   the meeting. ’ ’   ”He just said, ’’Sometimes it’’s the reverse, to make people  —   or   to make others  —   look bad,’’ and he used the word ’’reverse’’ I   would say two or three times in his comments,” Shapiro said,   . ”He did say at the top   that it was reprehensible.” ’ ’   According to BuzzFeed, Shapiro said the comments ”didn’’t make a   whole lot of sense to me.” ’ ’   A  that Shapiro also said   Trump assured him he would address the recent threats and acts of   vandalism aimed at Jewish community centers and cemeteries during   his major speech on Tuesday night to a joint session of Congress. ’ ’   The Democratic National Committee responded to Trump’’s reported   remarks, condemning what it considered to be Trump’’s   ”questioning” the ”legitimacy of JCC threats.” ’ ’’ ’   ”For millennia, Jews have not only endured unthinkable violence,   but the subsequent denial of that violence,” DNC spokesman Eric   Walker said in a statement. ”For the president of the United   States to insinuate that threats to Jewish community centers are   illegitimate is truly beyond the pale.” ’ ’   Trump has been asked several times in recent weeks, including   during his press conference with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin   Netanyahu, about an increase in   threats and acts of   vandalism. Trump initially did not strongly rebuke the threats,   but he denounced the   acts during a recent visit to   the National Museum of African American History and Culture in   Washington, DC. ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer said during the Monday   press briefing that Trump strongly denounced   attacks   after the latest acts of vandalism at a Jewish cemetery. ’ ”   Early in his presidency, Trump caused a firestorm when his staff   did not mention Jews in the White House’s official Holocaust   Remembrance Day statement. The administration subsequently   doubled down on its defense of the statement. ” ’Asked about a wave of recent  . ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’