’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   President Donald Trump’s promise to use   existing funds to begin immediate construction of a wall on the   U. S.  border has hit a financial roadblock, according to a   document seen by Reuters. ’ ’   The rapid start of construction, promised throughout Trump’’s   campaign and in an executive order issued in January on border   security, was to be financed, according to the White House, with   ”existing funds and resources” of the Department of Homeland   Security. ’ ’   But so far, the DHS has identified only $20 million that can be     to the    project, according to a   document prepared by the agency and distributed to congressional   budget staff last week. ’ ’   The document said the funds would be enough to cover a handful of   contracts for wall prototypes, but not enough to begin   construction of an actual barrier. This means that for the wall   to move forward, the White House will need to convince Congress   to appropriate funds. ’ ’   An internal report, previously reported by Reuters, estimated   that fully walling off or fencing the entire southern border   would cost $21. 6 billion   $9. 3 million per mile of fence and   $17. 8 million per mile of wall. ’ ’   DHS officials did not respond to a request for comment on this   story. ’ ’   Trump has said he will ask Congress to pay for what existing   funds cannot cover and that Mexico will be pressured to pay back   U. S. taxpayers at a later date. ’ ’   Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan has said he will include   funding for a border wall in the budget for next fiscal year. He   has estimated the cost to be between $12 billion and $15 billion. ’ ’  ’ ’   Many Republican lawmakers have said they would vote against a   plan that does not offset the cost of the wall with spending   cuts. ’ ’   In the document it submitted to Congress, the DHS said it would   reallocate $5 million from a fence project in Naco, Arizona, that   came in under budget and $15 million from a project to install   cameras on top of trucks at the border. ’ ’   The surveillance project was awarded to   Tactical   Micro, but was held up due to protests from other contractors,   according to the DHS document. Tactical Micro could not be   reached for comment. ’ ’   The DHS only searched for extra funds within its $376 million   budget for border security fencing, infrastructure and   technology, so it would not have to ask for congressional   approval to repurpose funding, according to the document. ’ ’   Contractors cannot begin bidding to develop prototypes until   March 6 but more than 265 businesses already have listed   themselves as ”interested parties” on a government web site. ’ ’   Those interested range from small businesses to large government   contractors such as Raytheon. ’ ’WASHINGTON (Reuters)   President Donald. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’