’  ’ ’   Harvard President Drew Faust explicitly criticized President   Donald Trump in a media roundtable at Bloomberg News on Tuesday,    ’ ’   ”This administration seems unpredictable in many ways,” Faust   told journalists, according to The Crimson. ”It doesn’’t seem tied   to the traditional notions of the role of government. And so [the   new administration’’s] understanding of this long relationship   between federal government and higher education is unclear to   us,” she continued. ’ ’   Her comments are some of the harshest yet. In the past, Faust has   tread more carefully in calling out Trump by name, instead   voicing support for students while aiming to remain   nonpartisan.  ’ ’   At the roundtable, she restated her concern for ”safety and   welfare of our students, our undocumented students, immigrants   who are students and faculty and those who come to conferences   and bring international perspectives that are key to learning and   discovery,” The Crimson reported. ’ ’   Much of that sentiment echoes earlier concerns Faust voiced to   students in an email sent in January. ’ ’’ ’   ”Nearly half of the deans of Harvard’’s schools are immigrants  —     from India, China, Northern Ireland, Jamaica, and Iran,” . ”Benefiting from the talents and   energy, the knowledge and ideas of people from nations around the   globe is not just a vital interest of the University; it long has   been, and it fully remains, a vital interest of our nation.” ’ ’   The email urged the Trump administration, Congress, and the court   system to  that bars citizens of   Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen from entering   the US for 90 days. That order is currently stalled in federal   court. ’ ’   But worry still exists across the US among undocumented   immigrants as the Trump Administration  ’ ’   And Faust indicated that the harsh rhetoric concerning immigrants   may dissuade future students from pursuing an education in the   US. ’ ’   ” ’ ’Harvard President Drew Faust explicitly. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’