’  ’ ”   Cohesity CEO Mohit Aron might be one of the most successful tech   execs you’ve never heard of. ” ”   These days, he’s running his    storage startup   Cohesity as CEO and sole founder. ” ’   Launched in 2013, Cohesity has already raised $70 million in just   two rounds, with a $350 million valuation, backed by       firms Sequoia, Qualcomm Ventures, and others,   . ’ ’   He made his stripes as an early Google employee, joining the   search giant in 2003, the year before its IPO. ’ ’   ”When I started, there were 600 employee at Google. When I left,   Google was 3, 000 employees,” he tells Business Insider. It had   become a ”big” company, which he didn’’t prefer, he says. ’ ’   Still, like so many of those earlier Googlers, the stint left him   financially secure for life. His stock options had a $1. 20 strike   price, he says. Although he wasn’’t clairvoyant enough to wait   until 2017 to sell, when the stock would trade at over $840 a   share, he did wait until the stock had become so valuable that he   ”couldn’’t sleep at night.” ’ ’   He became an early employee at Aster Data Systems, which was   bought by Teradata in 2011 for $263 million. ’ ’   Then he did the thing that gave him an even bigger fortune and   made him a tech industry star: He cofounded Nutanix, the poster   child of the   era. ’ ’   At Nutanix, Aron helped invent a   storage data center   hardware market dubbed ”hyperconverged.” That’’s a piece of   hardware that stores data but includes some computing power and   networking bundled with the   software known as   virtualization. It allows companies to affordably string these   computer boxes together to grow their infrastructures really   large, really fast, and more affordably than traditional storage. ’ ’  ’ ’   Nutanix and the hyperconverged market became an existential   threat to some of the largest IT players around including the     EMC (swallowed by Dell) . ’ ’   It threatens Cisco’’s popular line of ”converged” servers and,   reading the tea leaves,   Enterprise just bought   Nutanix’’s rival SimpliVity for $650 million in cash. ’ ’   Nutanix raised gobs of money: $317 million by August 2014, at a   $2 billion valuation. It was one of the first unicorns  —   the   group of tech startups with private market valuations of $1   billion or more. ’ ’   It would be 10 months before the IPO finally happened, in   September, at which point the stock soared. Nutanix is now worth   $4 billion. ’ ”   But Aron was long gone from    operations by then, having   left in 2013. He’s still one of the biggest shareholders in the   company, with a 5%  stake that’s worth about $300 million,    mostly in a trust for his kids. ” ”   To put this in perspective, it’s like Packard leaving Hewlett   when things were going pretty well and the payoff hadn’t yet hit. ” ”   Why? Basically, he was bored, and he didn’t need the money. ” ’   ”I’m not going to sit at Nutanix only to make more money. I’m   doing this for my passion,” he says. ”After being there at   Nutanix for more than three years, the tech was mature, the      solid. Me, being a technologist, I wanted to solve   the problem for rest of the data center.” ’ ’   At Nutanix, Aron says customers were asking the company to build   a product that did for their backup storage what Nutanix did for   their main storage  —   make it easier and cheaper to grow and   manage. ’ ”   He couldn’t get the rest of the leadership team to agree to   develop the product the way he wanted to, he says, so he quit to   do it himself. ” ’  ’ ’   While he has a good relationship with his former cofounder,   Dheeraj Pandey (Nutanix CEO) he says, this was not a sanctioned   split blessed with seed money. ’ ’   It was a clean break. ’ ’   ”I have a civil relationship with everyone at Nutanix,” he says,   but ”I did not take money from any of the people associated [with   Nutanix]. I did not become adviser. I was scared of IP issues.” ’ ’   He fully admits that his past success has allowed him to take   bigger and bigger risks, including leaving his own company right   when it was starting to upend its part of the IT world. ’ ’   His advice for others is the same: ”Make yourself financially   secure first, don’t shoot for millions. Once you have that   success, take a bigger risk and a bigger risk.” ’ ”   Even at this stage of his career, running his own company, it is   a learning curve. He’s had to learn, for instance, how to   properly hire nontechnical people, like sales and ops people,   making hard mistakes along the way. ” ’  ’ ”   But he’s bounced back from those mistakes. The  revenue has been doubling   each quarter, he says, and the customer base is growing. ” ’   Aron was so happy with the growth that he took the whole company,   and their families, . ’ ”   And he says he’s never been happier. ” ’   ”One thing I do now is listen to my gut. If my gut tells me that   something is wrong, even if everything else looks right, I don’t   go forward with it. In the times I didn’t trust my gut, I   regretted it. When the thing inside raises that red flag, you’ve   got to respect it,” he says. ’ ’Cohesity CEO Mohit Aron might be one of the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’