’  ’ ’   Officials from the State Department and Heritage Foundation   provided additional clarity Thursday about a July event at   the Republican National Convention in Cleveland where  .   Jeff Sessions of Alabama held the first of two conversations with   Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak. ’ ”   News of the discussions with Kislyak sparked a Wednesday night   firestorm that spilled into Thursday. A number of Democratic   politicians  while others, including prominent   Republicans, have called for him to recuse himself from any   investigation involving President Donald Trump’s ties to   Russia or the country’s influence in the 2016 presidential   election. ” ’   A Justice Department official said both instances were in   his capacity as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee   and not as a surrogate for Trump. ’ ’   The Cleveland event, the ”Global Partners in Diplomacy”   conference, was attended by many foreign ambassadors to the   US. A  story from July 20   reported 80 ambassadors were invited to the event’’s reception,   during which Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, the chair of the   Senate Foreign Relations Committee, gave an address. ’ ’   As a State Department spokesperson told Business Insider in an   email, the State Department has invited foreign ambassadors to   both the DNC and RNC ”as observers of our democratic process”   since the 1980s. The State Department manages invitations,   logistics, and security, and ambassadors are responsible for   their own expenses, including flight and hotel accomodations. The   convention committees develop the programming the ambassadors   participate in or attend. ’ ”   In this case, the Heritage Foundation was one of the   organizations that sponsored the Global Partners in   Diplomacy conference, the one at which multiple news outlets   reported Sessions and Kislyak spoke following an address Sessions   gave to attendees. The State Department was unable to   confirm which dignitaries were in attendance at both the RNC and   corresponding DNC events, or whether Kislyak attended a   corresponding DNC event, which would’ve occurred following the   initial WikiLeaks dump of hacked Democratic National Committee   emails. ” ’   A spokesperson for the Heritage Foundation told Business Insider   in an email that Sessions provided a keynote address at a   defense and   luncheon attended by roughly 100   individuals. The spokesperson said, ”I believe he was speaking as   a senator on Armed Services” during his address, not as a   Trump campaign surrogate. ’ ’   As  reported Wednesday, a   spokesperson for Sessions said the appearance was in his capacity   as a senator and not as a campaign official. The spokesperson   added that Sessions was approached following the speech by   several ambassadors, including Kislyak, with whom  a ”short and informal” conversation. ’ ’   But  reported Thursday that Sessions was   clearly identified as a top Trump adviser for his speech before   the dignitaries at the Cleveland convention. ’ ’  ’ ”   The second conversation between Sessions and Kislyak reportedly   took place in September at the senator’s office, . US   investigators examined the conversations,  as part of an   investigation into communications between Trump’s campaign   operatives and Russian officials. ” ’   During his Senate confirmation hearing, Sessions did not mention   the pair of discussions . Franken did not ask Sessions whether he   specifically spoke with Russian operatives, but Sessions, in   answering an unrelated question, said he did not have any   communications with ”the Russians.” ’ ’   ”If there is any evidence that anyone affiliated with the Trump   campaign communicated with the Russian government in the course   of this campaign, what will you do?” Franken asked. ’ ’   ”Sen. Franken, I’’m not aware of any of those activities,”   Sessions responded. ”I have been called a surrogate at a time or   two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the   Russians, and I’’m unable to comment on it.” ’ ’   Sessions’’ spokesperson, Sarah Isgur Flores, said there ”was   absolutely nothing misleading” about Sessions’’ answer, even   though he did not disclose his conversations with Kislyak. ’ ”   Sessions’  have also insisted he did not   mislead the committee because he did not believe that those   conversations, held in his capacity, they said, as a senior Armed   Services Committee member, were relevant to the question.   Opponents say Sessions may have perjured himself by not   mentioning those two conversations with Kislyak. ” ”   Kislyak was also the person with whom former National Security   Adviser Michael Flynn was found to have communicated with before   the election, leading to Flynn’s resignation as national security   adviser after Trump said Flynn misled Vice President Mike Pence   regarding the content of that communication. ” ’ Sessions said   he did not meet ” with any Russians at any time to discuss any   political campaign, and those remarks are unbelievable to me and   are false.” ’ ’   ”And I don’’t have anything else to say about that,” he added. ’ ’   The attorney general also said he would recuse himself ”whenever   it’’s appropriate.” ’ ’   ”There’’s no doubt about that,” he said. ’ ’   Elsewhere Thursday, Trump  about   Sessions’’ conversations with Kislyak, saying he ”wasn’’t aware”   his attorney general had spoken with Kislyak during the campaign.   But, Trump said he believed Sessions testified truthfully during   his Senate confirmation hearing. ’ ’Officials from the State Department and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’