’  ’ ’   Cracks in Republican unity began to appear Thursday as   several   congressional Republicans called for   Attorney General Jeff Sessions to recuse himself from the   investigation into Russian interference in last year’s   presidential election. ’ ’  ’ ’   The disarray came as the party scrambled to respond to the   revelations that Sessions, a   surrogate for   Donald Trump on the campaign trail, met twice with the   Russian ambassador during last year’s presidential race and   neglected to disclose those meetings to Congress when asked   during his confirmation hearings. ’ ’   House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy was even in conflict with   himself on how to respond. On Thursday morning as he was asked   about Sessions on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” he said, “I think the   trust of the American people [is at stake]; you recuse yourself   in these situations, yes. ” Later, on “Fox and Friends,” he   backtracked: “I’m not calling on [Sessions] to recuse himself. ” ’ ’   Whichever side McCarthy is on, he has plenty of company with   fellow Republicans on either side. ’ ’   Sen. Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, told reporters Thursday   that he thinks “it would be best for [Sessions] and for the   country to recuse himself from the [Department of Justice] Russia   probe. ” ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAG Sessions should clarify his testimony and recuse himself’t’t’ ’   And Rep. Mike Coffman of Colorado said Sessions had made a “grave   omission by not disclosing his meeting with the Russian   ambassador last year” and must recuse himself. ’ ’ ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAG Sessions must recuse himself from the Russia investigation. ’t’t’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTom Cotton: ”Anyone who knows Jeff Sessions as I do can vouch for his  . disappointed Dems are distorting facts”’t’t’ ’   The White House press secretary told VICE News Thursday that   Sessions did not disclose his meeting because it was “in the   regular course of his work on the Armed Services Committee” and   not as a campaign surrogate. Burr echoed this defense to   reporters on Thursday, saying, “We’re not in the business of   investigating individual senators that say they were doing senate   business. ” ’ ’   Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah also defended Sessions and attacked   Democrats, several of whom have called for the attorney   general to resign. “My concern is, why are our Democratic   Senators so doggone rude to a former senator,” he told VICE News. ’ ’      ’ ’   Democrats have been calling on Sessions for weeks to recuse   himself from any investigations into connections between Donald   Trump’s presidential campaign and the Russian government, arguing   that his advisory role on the campaign makes it impossible for   him to be impartial. ’ ’   As some Republicans are now arguing for recusal, many Democrats   are now saying that is insufficient and are demanding an   independent special prosecutor or special committee to thoroughly   investigate the Russia issue. Republicans are resisting such   calls, for now. ’ ’Cracks in Republican unity began to appear. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’