’  ’ ’   As a sexism scandal rocks Uber, its CEO Travis Kalanick has been   on the defensive, holding   meetings with the company and   sitting down with the women in its engineering group to hear   their complaints.  ’ ”   Yet there’s one person at the center of it all who has   remained conspicuously missing: Uber’s first CEO, current board   member, and its head of operations, Ryan Graves.  ” ’   Graves has apparently ”vanished from the office, hasn’’t been seen   or heard from in days,” one Uber insider told Business Insider.   Other people inside Uber confirmed that Graves hasn’’t displayed   the leadership they would have expected during such   a challenging period, but note that he has resurfaced   in the office briefly in the last few days after much time   away. ’ ”   It’s a marked absence given that the human resources department   reported to Graves directly, not Kalanick, until a couple of   months ago. Uber and its HR department are under fire, after a   former Uber engineer alleged that it ignored employees’ sexual   harassment claims.  ” ”   Now that the company is facing an investigation into possible   systemic problems of sexual harassment at the company, Graves’   absence is leading some inside and outside the company to believe   he’s the one about to take the fall  —   with or without cause. ” ’   ”I wouldn’’t be surprised,” said a former employee who worked   closely with Graves, noting that ousting him would be a   largely ”ceremonial” move in response to the mounting pressure. ’ ”   Graves did not respond to requests for comment. An Uber   spokesperson declined to comment on Graves’ recent whereabouts or   this story. ” ’   Graves  ’ ’  ’ ”   After serving a brief stint as Uber’s first CEO from 2010 to   2011, Graves handed the reins to Kalanick and eventually assumed   the role of  ” ’  ’ ”   The allegations by former Uber engineer Susan Fowler do not   provide exact dates and names, and Graves’ involvement in   handling the various incidents she alleges is also unclear. ” ”   But one person close to Uber’s executive team said he had a   bad feeling about Graves’ future at the company when he   realized that Graves was the one who was technically in   charge of the department during the alleged incidents. ” ’   Aside from his job responsibilities, Graves served as   an   ’ ’   His trademark expression of ”sumperpumpedness” is even one of   Uber’’s 14 cultural values. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   While Graves technically oversaw the HR department, some people   close to the company say placing the blame on his   shoulders might not be as simple seems. For starters, Graves   is both a board member and a large shareholder, making him harder   to get rid of. ’ ’   Moreover, while the department did report to him, he didn’’t keep   the direct head of HR in a corner. Atwood, who was head of Uber’’s   HR department, reported to Graves, but she also had a direct line   to Kalanick. As part of Uber’’s ”” the   elite  ’ ’   Atwood left Uber in August 2016. She did not return a request for   comment. ’ ’   Graves also transitioned to a new role in August 2016,   although he retained  ’ ’  ’ ”   Whatever the case, the optics of such an absence aren’t good   for someone who formerly oversaw the department that’s now   under fire.  ” ”   Graves’ only public comment about the sexual harassment   allegations has been a retweet of Kalanick’s statement on the   matter. His social media feed during the past few weeks have been   vacation pictures and tweets about climate change. ” ’   On Friday, Graves was reported to be connected to another   controversy around a  that allowed it to   secretly deceive authorities. The New York Times,  said Graves was aware of the   program that Uber used to evade authorities who might be trying   to block the   service from operating. ’ ”   With pressure mounting on the company, many observers believe   Uber has no choice but to make a bold statement that shows it’s   changing its ways. A change at the top would be the biggest   statement Uber could make, but some people close to the company   believe Kalanick is too valuable to sacrifice. While many people   think ousting Graves won’t actually solve anything, he’s an   easy target. ” ’   ”They definitely have a real crisis,” one former employee said.   ”Getting rid of Graves wouldn’’t address the core issues.” ’ ’As a sexism scandal rocks Uber, its CEO Travis. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’