’  ’ ’   Republican Sen. Ben Sasse of Nebraska demanded in a statement on   Saturday that President Donald Trump further explain his  that former President Barack Obama wiretapped   Trump Tower during the election campaign. ’ ’   ”The President today made some very serious allegations, and the   informed citizens that a republic requires deserve more   information,” Sasse said. ’ ’   He continued: ”We are in the midst of a     crisis of public trust, and the President’’s allegations today   demand the thorough and dispassionate attention of serious   patriots. A quest for the full truth, rather than     partisanship, must be our guide if we are going to rebuild civic   trust and health.” ’ ’   Trump had fired off a series of early morning tweets alleging   without evidence that Obama had tapped his phones in Trump Tower   during the election campaign. He called Obama ”sick” and compared   him to former President Richard Nixon and former Sen. Joseph   McCarthy. ’ ’  ’ ’   A spokesman for Obama said Saturday that any allegations that   Obama had ordered surveillance on any US citizen was ”simply   false.” ’ ’   ”A cardinal rule of the Obama Administration was that no White   House official ever interfered with any independent investigation   led by the Department of Justice,” spokesman . ’ ’   Sasse said if Trump was illegally tapped, he must explain ”what   sort of wiretap it was and how he knows this.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tmy statement on wiretapping. ..  ’ ’   The other possibility, Sasse said, was that Trump was legally   tapped with the authorization of a Foreign Intelligence   Surveillance Act court order, in which case a judge would have   found a surveillance request credible enough to authorize the   wiretapping. ’ ’   Sasse demanded that Trump obtain the application for surveillance   and provide it to the public, or at the very least the US Senate. ’ ’   Sasse wasn’’t the only Republican to speak out on the issue  —   Sen.    of South Carolina said Saturday that an illegal   wiretap would be ”the biggest political scandal since Watergate,”   but that a legal wiretap would also be a scandal of the same   proportion. ’ ’Republican Sen. Ben Sasse of Nebraska demanded. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’