’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump accused former president Barack Obama of   wire tapping his phones in October during the late stages of the   presidential election campaign, but offered no evidence to   support the allegation. ’ ’   ”How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the   very sacred election process. This is  . Bad (or   sick) guy! ,” Trump said on Saturday. ’ ’   Trump claimed that though the wiretapping took place, there was   ”nothing found.” ’ ’   ”This ’ ’   Trump didn’’t offer any evidence to support his bombastic   claims. He may have been referring to a  about conservative radio host Mark   Levin’’s allegations that Obama sought to ”undermine” Trump’’s   campaign in the final days of the presidential election.  ’ ’   Journalists have noted that the wiretaps Trump says he ”just   found out about” have been reported on for weeks. A FISA court   (Foreign Intelligence Surveillance) reportedly  who were suspected of improper ties to the   Russian government.  ’ ”   Andrew McCarthy, of the   National Review,    that a FISA court doesn’t need evidence of a   crime to grant a warrant, just evidence amounting to probable   cause that the target of the wiretap is an agent of a foreign   power.  ” ”   Ben Rhodes, Obama’s former deputy national security adviser, also   noted that presidents can’t unilaterally authorize wiretaps. ” ’   ”Those restrictions were put in place to protect citizens from   people like you,”  in reference to Trump.  ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s national security adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned in   February after revelations that he had discussed US sanctions on   Russia with the Russian ambassador to the United States before   Trump took office. ” ’   Robert Costa,  said that Trump advisers woke up on   Saturday morning ”surprised” by Trump’’s tweets. ’ ’   Administration officials reportedly  they expected Saturday to be a ”down day, pretty   quiet.” Trump’’s tweets started around 6 a. m. on Saturday, from   the   .  ’ ’   Trump also took a shot at Arnold Schwarzenegger, who  that he was leaving ”The Apprentice,” the   show Trump formerly hosted. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTerrible! Just found out that Obama had my ”wires tapped” in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism! ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tIs it legal for a sitting President to be ”wire tapping” a race for president prior to an election? Turned down by court earlier. A NEW LOW! ’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tI’d bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that President Obama was tapping my phones in October, just prior to Election! ’t’t” ’ ’t’t’tHow low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process. This is  . Bad (or sick) guy! ’t’t’ ’ Reuters contributed reporting.  ’ ’President Donald Trump accused former president. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’