’  ’ ”   Stroll into any retail clothing store focused primarily on   menswear, and you’ll likely find a few things: an assortment of   clothing, staff trained to be stylists as well as salespeople,   and some kind of cafe serving drinks and often food. It’s a     shop that’s curated so that anything you pick up is   stylish and current. ” ’   And it all seems to be targeting one man: the kind who actually   likes to shop and who has the money (but not necessarily the    ) to do it often.  ’ ”   Today’s man, after all, is more particular about his appearance,   and stores are hoping that extra perks (like a putting green, for   example) could help move that process along. Gone are the days   when a man’s mother or partner did his shopping for him. This   kind of man  —   in retailers’ minds, at least  —   actually spends   money on clothing and shops for himself. An additional reason to   come in, like a large cappuccino made with   beans, or a   glass of Pinot, might just be the ticket to lure him in. ” ’   The product has to be right, too. This theoretical man isn’’t so   particular that he knows exactly what he wants. In retailers’’   minds, he doesn’’t necessarily have time to do the research   online, so he wants to come to stores where the selection is    . Everything looks cool, so theoretically there’’s no   ”wrong choice” in the store, compared to a larger department   store where choices are endless and landmines abound.  ’ ’   That, along with the friendly ”Here, have a drink!” vibe, could   lead to more men stepping in off the street just because they   know they won’’t be intimidated by the selection. ’ ’ ’ ”   Many stores, especially in New York City, have been following   this trend. Todd Snyder’s  which opened late last year, is maybe the   quintessential version. Though its    cafe and   barbershop are not yet open, it also has an optical area, small   watch boutique, and tailoring services, on top of a myriad of     clothing options. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Saks Fifth Avenue just opened its first   store in   downtown Manhattan. It has its own putting green and will   eventually have its very own   Fika coffee bar and Sharps   barbershop. ’ ’  ’ ”   Brooks Brothers carries both men’s and women’s clothing, but it’s   perhaps best known for its menswear. The brand’s location on   Broadway in New York City hosts a happy hour in its basement   .  ” ’   Retailers are realizing that with the rise of ecommerce,   customers need another reason to come into a      store. Part of that includes making the store a focal point for a   community, in a similar way Lululemon has done with its . Another part of that is having a staff   that is knowledgeable enough to steer guys in the right   direction. ’ ’   These new stores even look similar, with more rustic, wooden   interiors eschewing the   sheen seen in a typical   department store.  ’ ”   When these retailers are asked who they’re targeting with   these stores, the answers are always nearly the same. ” ’   ”[It’’s] this average guy who isn’’t afraid of fashion, not afraid   to go shopping, not afraid to try on things,” Snyder said.   ”Especially in New York City, there’’s a lot of them.” ’ ’   Mark Metrick, the president of Saks, told  something similar. ’ ’   ”Men are having a fashion moment. Probably for the first time   ever. Right now, they don’t have a base,” he said. ’ ’Stroll into any retail clothing store focused. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’