’  ’ ’   Facebook, which was criticized for its role in facilitating the   spread of misinformation doing the presidential election, just   debuted its first attempt at dealing with the problem. ’ ’   As spotted by  Facebook   has started to tag articles as “disputed” by       organizations. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFacebook is flagging links to fake sites now, looks like:  ’ ’   The company  that it would start labeling   and burying fake news. To do that, Facebook teamed up with a   host of media organizations that are part of an   international     network led by   journalism   Poynter. The list includes 42   organizations, but Facebook is initially relying on four: Snopes,   Factcheck. org, ABC News, and PolitiFact. (All   are   required to adhere to a  created by Poynter.) ’ ’   The new system is expected to make it easier for users to flag   and report stories that are misleading or false. Those stories   will then be reviewed by     and   labeled as potentially fake in the News Feed. ’ ’   Facebook also recently rolled out a new section explaining the   process of how a story gets marked as disputed, and a      guide for how readers can mark a story as fake if   something questionable comes across their feeds. ’ ’  ’ ’   A Facebook representative told Business Insider in December that   a team of researchers would eventually begin reviewing website   domains and sending fake sites to   as well. ’ ’   The issue of false information being distributed on Facebook   gained prominence during the recent election. Perhaps the most   notable example was the “Pizzagate” conspiracy theory, a false   report that accused Hillary Clinton and others connected to her   campaign of running a child sex ring out of a Washington DC   pizza parlor. A North Carolina man was  after walking into the   restaurant with an assault rifle and allegedly firing a shot. ’ ’   Clinton and former President Barack Obama both spoke out about   the problem  —   Obama accused Facebook of creating a  by allowing crazy theories to   spread, and Clinton called the proliferation of fake news    after the election. ’ ’   Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg was initially dismissive of such   accusations, and said it was “” for anyone to suggest that fake news on Facebook could   have any sway over election results. But after facing intense   backlash, he changed his tune slightly. ’ ’   “I recognize we have a greater responsibility than just building   technology that information flows through,” Zuckerberg  December 15. ’ ’   Since the issue of fake news gained national attention, President   Donald Trump has adopted the phrase and incorporated it into his   criticisms of the news media. ’ ’   ”Russia is fake news,” he said at a  in response to allegations about   his campaign’s ties to Russia. ’ ’   Whether Facebook’s new approach to curbing the spread of   misinformation on the platform will actually help people   better differentiate between factual and misleading stories is   still to be determined. The tool isn’t yet available to all users    —   but future disputes about what exactly should be deemed   “disputed” seem inevitable. ’ ’Facebook, which was criticized for its role in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’