’  ’ ’   We were reminded this week that president Donald Trump likes his   steaks cooked   and smothered in ketchup. ’ ’   On its own, this piece of information matters little —  who cares   why one man wants to turn lovely $54 cuts into   rubbery   hunks of protein? ’ ’   But as with most minor   quirks that become internet     the reactions to Trump’s steak preference say a lot   more than the preference itself —  especially about the bizarre way   meat, its varying degrees of bloodiness, and masculinity are   mixed up in America. ’ ”   Plenty of outlets have condemned Trump’s choice in meat   preparation in the year since that personal detail first came   out. The Huffington Post called it “the worst possible way” to   eat a steak last March; earlier this week, Jezebel claimed the   practice made the president seem “like a damn child. ”   Preemptively heading off readers who might dismiss a steak hot   take as distracting from politics and policies that matter, Eater   contended that “Actually, How Donald Trump Eats His Steak   Matters,” then spent nearly 1, 800 words explaining what   consumption of certain kinds of meat can reveal about a person’s   ability to trust others and take advice. ” ’   In response, some     #MAGA people have done   what they do best: react to something silly with     extremism and   insults. ’ ’   “Only men with testosterone deficiencies order their steak   anything less than burnt to a crisp,” tweeted an InfoWars editor,   writing that progressives need a “trigger warning” for the   “traumatizing” content of a photo of Trump nomming on a golden   fork. Someone on the   subreddit joked (?) that   “satanists and pedophiles like their meat raw,” so it “makes   sense that Trump would like his well done. ” ’ ’   This sudden love among   for brown, shriveled discs   of flesh was the subject of a nice comic from Matt Bors at the   Nib. “Flavor is for cucks. I burn my steaks now,” says the   strip’s Trump fanatic, who cuts his meat with a chainsaw. “We are   owning libs so hard with our steak eating. Hashtag #welldone. ” ’ ’   The defense of a   steak in communities that normally go   to great lengths to defend the purity of their masculinity is a   wonder to behold. ‘Twasn’t but a short time ago that the rare   steak, close as it is to the animal in its live, hunted form, was   the thing men were supposed to eat. While writers critique   Trump’s preferred meat treatment for its assault on flavor and   texture, people on Twitter are questioning his manhood: “No real   man would have voted for Trump if they’d known he eats steak   ‘well done with ketchup,’” one man tweeted. Another user cast   doubt on the idea that Trump could be “a real man’s man” with   that kind of taste, calling him a “   ” who’d be better   off eating chicken. ’ ’  ’ ’   But I’m a vegetarian snowflake with a bias against hegemonic   masculinity, so maybe I don’t know what I’m talking about?   Internet research brought me to this thread on a forum called   “Dawg Shed” —  a site manly enough to have a section called the   “hoochie bin” —  that wondered “When it comes to steak, what is the   most manly level of doneness?” ’ ”   Lots of men voted for rare or   but one called them a   “bunch of      that think it’s manly to eat raw meat. ” He   continued: “You know nothing about flavor     . ” One user with   a   ’84 avatar (two men!) offered that “my buddy claims   real men eat their steak well done. ” Since   talking to     about what “real men” do constitutes the closest   thing the world has to actual gender police, I’m inclined to   believe that there may be some grain of truth here. ” ’   Then again, Hollywood has done a pretty thorough job of   synonymizing   with rare meat. John Travolta as Vincent   Vega in Pulp Fiction gets his steak “bloody as hell”; Raging Bull   finds Robert De Niro yelling and shoving his onscreen wife for   overcooking his piece of meat. ’ ’   In what might be the most extreme example, The Cowboy   Way, uncouth country boys Kiefer Sutherland and Woody   Harrelson order red wine with ice and marvel at “ ”   lemon slices at a fancy restaurant. When the server asks   Harrelson how he’d like his meat cooked, he instructs the chef to   “just knock its horns off, wipe its nasty ol’    and chunk it   right down on the plate. ” The trope of a violent   eater   is so common in popular cinema, Roger Ebert’s Movie Yearbook 2005   contained this observation from a contributor: “When characters   order steaks, they always ask for ‘rare,’ which people hardly   ever order in restaurants, instead of ‘medium rare’ or ‘medium,’   which is what most people order. This is because the kind of   character who orders a steak in a movie would sound like a wimp   asking for ‘medium. ’” ’ ’  ’ ’   No matter how it’s cooked, meat —  especially red meat —  is one of the   most heavily gendered foods on the pyramid. Multiple studies have   shown that people associate meat with men and vegetables with   women, and   steak ranks above hamburgers and     steak in measures of masculinity. ’ ’   “To the strong, traditional, macho,       male, red meat is a strong, traditional, macho,       food,” the authors of one study   wrote. The connotation spans borders: In Ethiopia, eating raw   meat is a “male thing” manly men do together, and most languages   with gendered pronouns put meat in the masculine camp. Someone   who engages in    consumption of meat is signaling that   he doesn’t care about his health or the planet, and not caring   about harming things is one of the most important elements of   traditional masculinity. Men are less likely to do things   perceived as   like eat vegetarian, lest they be   confused for women. ’ ’   Lucky for you, reader, German newsmagazine Der Spiegel gave us a   prime example of just such a conspicuous meat consumer this week.   A profile of Alex Jones, the walking aneurysm who heads up   InfoWars, describes the guy sweating in a   room, heaping   barbecued meats onto a plate, and removing his shirt in front of   the reporter before sitting down next to a case of Italian   mineral water and beginning his feast. ’ ’   “With his bare torso, he sits there and shovels meat into his   mouth, a caricature of manliness, but also a show of power to the   reporter sitting in front of him. He can do as he pleases,”   reporter Veit Medick writes. “Then Jones gets up and holds out a   sausage. ‘Wanna suck?’ he asks. ” ’ ’   The only thing men who doth protest too much about their   manliness love more than showing off how much they love meat is   turning meat into sexual metaphors. See: the sensual     ads of “ ” steakhouses that want to use salads and   small portions to attract sexy women, then use sexy women to   attract men. ’ ”   Trump may lack the    approach to   illness   of a real stud like Beauty and the Beast’s Gaston, who eats   60 raw eggs a day, but his preferred steak scenario tells some   people that he’s just like them, a regular guy with no   sophisticated taste for anything that can’t be found in a bottle   at Safeway. On   resident intellectual   “autisticlibtardcuck” posited that “90% of HollyWood thinks their   palette is too fine for such a condiment” as ketchup, while   “POTUS and Billionaire eating like the working class people he   loves so dearly. Keep killing it Mr. President, I want 8 years of   this. ” In a rare case of Hollywood noting the   appeal   of beef that’s been cooked all the way through —  a typical way of   preparing lesser cuts of meat —  Goodfellas shows Johnny Dio cooking   steaks in prison, mocking another guy as an “aristocrat” for   ordering his  . ” ’   Okay, so in the eyes of some supporters, Trump makes up for his   loss in man points with a boost in    points by eating     with Heinz. Those attentive calculators of     propriety may want to check out Manly Health and Training: To   Teach the Science of a Sound and Beautiful Body, a new collection   of writing by America’s foremost populist of poetry, Walt   Whitman. Under a pen name, Whitman argues in these     essays that men should be bearded carnivores. ’ ’   But more than that, to reach the heights of masculine splendor   achieved by the “   ” Greeks, Whitman   writes, men should eat “fresh rare lean meat” for breakfast and   “fresh meat (rare lean beef, broiled or roast, is best) with as   few outside condiments as possible” for lunch. Of all the     evaluators of masculinity mentioned here, I trust   Whitman the most, for one admittedly  . C. reason: He was gay. ’ ’We were reminded this week that president. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’