’  ’ ”   Top officials in the intelligence community seem baffled by   President Donald Trump’s suggestion that his phones were   wiretapped during the election. ” ’   FBI Director James Comey  to   publicly reject Trump’’s claims, and former Director of National   Intelligence James Clapper  that ”there was no such wiretap   activity mounted against” Trump or his campaign during the   election. ’ ”   Michael Hayden, the former director of the CIA and NSA, also   rejected the suggestion that the US government could   have tapped Trump’s phones during the election. ” ’   ”It didn’’t happen. It couldn’’t happen,” Hayden told Business   Insider on Monday. ”What he said was President Obama directed   eavesdropping surveillance, illegal surveillance, of him, or   friends, or other people at Trump Tower or on the Trump campaign.   That’’s just not true.” ’ ’   In a series of tweets over the weekend, Trump accused President   Barack Obama of tapping his phones. ’ ’’ ’   ”How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the   very sacred election process,” Trump    Saturday. ”This is  . Bad (or sick) guy!” ’ ”   Hayden explained why that isn’t likely. ” ’   ”The president of the United States doesn’’t have the   authority to authorize electronic surveillance,” he said. ”That   authority was taken away from him in the 1970s with the great   intelligence reform of that era.” ’ ’   Hayden said the US courts are the only institution that can   authorize surveillance against a US citizen. ’ ’   ”President Obama could not have done it,” Hayden said. ”And so if   President Trump is making the claim that Barack Obama is pulling   some sort of lever in the Oval Office to make this happen, I’’m   telling you, there’’s nothing connected to the lever. It’’s not   going to happen.” ’ ”   Hayden also pointed to Comey’s and Clapper’s denials. ” ’   When Chuck Todd asked Clapper on ”Meet the Press” whether he   could confirm or deny if a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act   (FISA) warrant had been granted in order to engage in   the kind of wiretapping Trump referred to,   Clapper replied, ”I can deny it.” ’ ’   And after reports surfaced that Comey had asked the Justice   Department for a public denial of the wiretapping, Matthew   Miller, the department’’s former spokesman under Obama, told   Business Insider that Comey ”would know beyond a shadow of a   doubt” whether the wiretapping actually happened. ’ ’   Miller said it would be a ”massive crime” for the president to   order such a wiretap. ’ ”   But Trump’s advisers . ” ”   White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Monday   that she doesn’t think Trump accepts Comey’s rejection of the   wiretapping allegations. ” ’Top officials in the intelligence community. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’