’  ’ ’   Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said   Sunday that he ”can deny” that a warrant to wiretap Donald Trump   or his associates was mounted to investigate possible ties   between his campaign and Russia in the final months of the   election. ’ ’   ”There was no such wiretap activity mounted against the   president, the   at the time, or as a candidate, or   against his campaign,” Clapper told Chuck Todd in an interview on   Sunday’’s ”Meet The Press.” ’ ”   Clapper and Todd were referring to Trump’s tweets on Saturday   morning that without evidence accused former President Barack   Obama of having Trump Tower phones wiretapped before the   election. ” ’   When Todd asked Clapper whether he could confirm or deny if a   Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrant had been granted to   engage in this kind of wiretapping, Clapper said, ”I can deny   it.” ’ ”   Several   experts have said, however, that Todd’s   question was specific enough to leave Clapper some wiggle room in   his response, which referred only to whether Trump campaign   officials had been wiretapped. ” ’’ ”   Retired Gen. Michael Hayden, who has served as the director of   both the National Security Agency and the CIA, said  that he viewed Clapper’s response as a denial that   Trump aides were specifically targeted by the FISA warrant  —   not   as a denial that a warrant was granted to surveil foreign actors   operating inside the US that might have been communicating with   Trump aides. ” ’   A spokesman for Obama said Saturday that Obama never authorized a   wiretap of Trump or any other American citizen and that ”any   suggestion otherwise is simply false.” ’ ’   On Monday morning, one of Trump’’s senior advisers, Kellyanne   Conway, said former Obama administration officials who were   denying that Trump Tower phones were tapped ”also left the door   open” to the possibility that they were. MSNBC’’s chief legal   correspondent, Ari Melber,  that while former officials ”aren’’t supposed to   confirm a FISA warrant anyway,” it is true that Obama’’s spokesman   said the former president was not involved  —   not that there   weren’’t any wiretaps. ’ ’   FBI Director James Comey on Sunday  the Department of Justice to refute Trump’’s   accusations. Matthew Miller, the department spokesman under the   Obama administration, said Comey ”would know beyond a shadow of a   doubt whether there was wiretapping of Trump or his campaign.” ’ ’   ”If he says there wasn’’t any, it’’s safe to say there wasn’’t,” he   told Business Insider. ’ ’   The Justice Department has not yet issued a statement, but the   president does not have the unilateral authority to order a   wiretap on suspected foreign spies operating inside the US. Doing   so would be a ”massive crime,” Miller said, that would implicate   career civil servants and necessitate a huge  . ’ ”   Rather, law enforcement and intelligence agencies wishing to   monitor signal intelligence they deem relevant to an   investigation  —   in this case, Russia’s interference in the 2016   election  —   must obtain a warrant from the Foreign Intelligence   Surveillance Court. Such a process is authorized under the 1978   Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. ” ’   ”Usually, the Department of Justice wouldn’’t comment on an   ongoing investigation, but in a situation like this, where the   president has questioned whether the department has violated   federal law, is certainly in their interest to correct the   record,” Miller said. ”If Trump’’s accusation were true, it would   mean career civil servants were also involved in a massive crime,   and the department needs to come out publicly and defend itself   so the public knows it acted appropriately.” ’ ’   Juliette Kayyem, a   expert who served in the   Department of Homeland Security and now teaches at the Harvard   Kennedy School of Government, said on Twitter that ”it can be   both true” that someone is not the subject of a FISA wiretap but   has their communications picked up by one. ’ ’   ”Once when getting security clearance, I learned my conversations   had been picked up in FISA wiretap. I was talking   someone who   had a wiretap on them,” Kayyem said. ”Nature of my work so wasn’’t   shocking that I talked to [someone] who have ties to foreign   intel investigation. Shows that comms are picked up on people not   subject of wiretap.” ’ ”   Reports have suggested that communications between Trump’s former   national security adviser, Michael Flynn, and Russia’s ambassador   to the US, Sergey Kislyak, were picked up by US intelligence   officials who had been eavesdropping on Kislyak  —   not on Flynn.   Current and former US officials have also told several media   outlets that they have intercepted communications between   associates of Trump and Russian officials. ” ’   HeatStreet, The Guardian, the BBC, and McClatchy have reported   various versions of the same story over the past three months:   The FBI sought a warrant from the FISC to investigate evidence of   improper communication between Russian nationals and associates   of Trump during his presidential campaign. ’ ’   It has not been confirmed that the FISA warrant targeted Trump   associates or that it was ever granted. FISA warrants are rarely   denied, however. ’ ”   White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Sunday that   the administration, in calling for an investigation into the   accusations that Obama wiretapped phones in Trump Tower, was   acting on media reports. But no news outlet has reported that   Trump Tower had been wiretapped or that Obama had ordered it  —     except for Breitbart, the   website that was until   recently helmed by Trump’s chief strategist, Steve Bannon. ” ’Former Director of National Intelligence James. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’