’  ’ ”   Snap’s stock is taking a beating after a . ” ”   For all the buzz surrounding the maker of the popular Snapchat   messaging app, there are two very big obstacles that   threaten to stifle Snap’s future growth.   ” ’   Investors are spooked because: ’ ”   In other words, Snap’s stock price and its business are each   facing a big barrier. Result: after  Snap’s stock is now 11% below its   $24 opening price. ” ”   Let’s take a look at each of the problems: ” ”   The first problem comes from the   Class A shares that Snap   sold in its IPO. The decision to sell stock that doesn’t   give shareholders a say is not sitting well with   everyone.  a group representing large   institutional investors is lobbying the major stock index makers   to exclude Snap’s stock from the big indexes, such as the S&P   500 and the .  ” ’  ’ ”   Being part of these indexes is a big deal. And it’s not just   about bragging rights. When a company is added to the S&P   500, it triggers a wave of buying from other funds that track and   mimic the holdings of the index  —   a nice little tailwind to   boost the stock. ” ”   When the news broke in 2013 that Facebook would be added to the   S&P 500, the stock immediately got a boost in     trading. Two months later, Facebook’s stock was up 31% and one   year later it was up 57%. ” ”   Google’s stock popped 8% after hours when news of its   inclusion in the S&P 500 was announced in 2006. It was   up 10% two months later, and a year later, the stock was trading   36% higher. ” ’   If Snap is barred from the indexes because of its   capital structure, shareholders will be forfeiting a big   potential growth catalyst for their investment. ’ ’   To be fair, Snapchat  that the   Class A   stock could result in a lower trading price for the shares   or lead to other ”adverse consequences.” Consider this one   potential consequence. ’ ’  ’ ”   Then there’s Snap’s business. The app is all the rage among   teenagers and   millennials. But the product is   famously impossible to use for older users who find its   interface baffling and its content of   filters   juvenile.  ” ’   Snap CEO Evan Spiegel and his entourage did nothing to appease   those worries during the   roadshow. As  the company told investors it did   not plan to craft any kind of special strategy to appeal to older   users.  ’ ”   Young users with disposable income are the dream demographic for   all marketers. But if that’s as big as the business will ever   get, the potential for growth has a clear set of boundaries. The   majority of Snapchat’s users are also concentrated in developed   markets, because the app runs better on   devices such   as the iPhone. ” ’   Spiegel has said Snapchat will start to cater more to users of   Android phones, which are widespread in emerging markets. But the   road may be bumpy, with Snap already  to   technical problems with its Android app.  ’ ”   Snapchat points to the gigantic $652 billion worldwide   advertising market in its prospectus, and says that its young   users are particularly tied to the $66 billion mobile ad market,   which is projected to reach $196 billion in 2020. That’s a   massive opportunity, but the question is, how much of it will   Snap shut itself out from by focusing only on the cool kids   in developed markets? ” ”Snap’s stock is taking a beating after a. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’