’  ’ ”   It didn’t take even 48 hours for an online conspiracy theory to   make its way from the   of the WikiLeaks Twitter   account to the primetime airwaves on Fox News and top   conservative radio programs. ” ”   On Tuesday, WikiLeaks released a batch of apparent CIA documents   describing the agency’s extensive cybersecurity and hacking   capabilities, which appear to allow agents to hack into a   variety of smart,   devices. ” ’   And as WikiLeaks began promoting their most interesting   documents, a conspiracy theory was born. ’ ”   The theory appeared to first emerge on WikiLeaks’ Twitter   account about an hour after the group released the Vault 7   documents. WikiLeaks highlighted the alleged abilities for CIA   hackers to leave behind trails that resemble other hackers. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tCIA steals other groups virus and malware facilitating false flag attacks    ’ ”   Readers quickly jumped on the tweet, leaping to the   conclusion that perhaps the CIA could   be responsible for the hack and release of private   emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary   Clinton’s former campaign chair John Podesta’s email account. ” ’ ’ ’  Meaning the CIA could have framed the Russians for the  and     ’ ’  CIA could hack the DNC and make it look like Russia. Leaks may be different incident   ’ ”   There are numerous reports in media outlets from The New York   Times to  showing in detail Russia’s meddling in the 2016   election, including the hack and release of DNC and Podesta   emails. Numerous US intelligence and law enforcement   agencies have all . ” ’   Further, The Intercept on Wednesday  that the CIA program  —   called UMBRAGE  —   seems   primarily used a as a shortcut tool for writing code, and   does not mention any ways to create a ”false flag” operation.   Instead, the Intercept reported, the tools for the CIA to hide   their tracks appear to be routine security procedures that   would be   by professional hackers. ’ ”   But this information didn’t stop the theory from picking   up steam among many prominent online supporters of President   Donald Trump, including   figures like radio host Bill   Mitchell and Ann Coulter. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tRussia said they hacked nothing.  Assange said Russia didn’’t provide the emails.  Now we learn CIA can make a hack ”look” like Russia. ’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tWikileaks docs show CIA hacking can leave Russian fingerprints. Say. ..you’d don’t think. ..’t’t” ’   The theory spread so fast conservative radio giant Rush Limbaugh   had time to tout it on his show on March 7, when he denied Trump   had any Russian campaign ties to Russia. ’ ’   ”The CIA has the ability to hack anybody they want and make it   look like the Russians are doing it or make it look like the   ChiComs are doing it or make it look like the Israelis are doing   it,” Limbaugh said, using a slang term for Chinese communists. ’ ’   He continued: ”They have the ability to mask and mock various   other state actors and make it look like  —   so I think because of   everything that we’re learning here, the danger that Donald Trump   has faced ever since he won the election is greater than we’ve   ever known. And it is obvious to me that this whole business  —     well, I say obvious, I’m leaning toward being near certain that   this entire pretext of Trump working with the Russians to affect   the outcome of the election, folks, it is so ridiculous.” ’ ”     sites weren’t the only ones spreading the theory. ” ’   It was picked up by Russian   English media outlets   like Sputnik,  ” ” accusations that   Russia hacked the election, linking to tweets ”  of   sarcasm and memes” about the CIA’’s capabilities. ’ ’   Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov again  Russia’’s involvement in the 2016 election hacking,   pointing to the WikiLeaks documents on Thursday and   noting ”the CIA could get access to such ’’fingerprints’’ and   then use them.” ’ ’  ’ ’   But it breached fully into the mainstream when Fox News   host Sean Hannity floated the idea on Wednesday,  . ’ ’   ”The CIA, according to these WikiLeaks leaks, uses stolen malware   to attribute cyberattacks to nations like Russia,” Hannity told   radio listeners. ”In other words, what they’’re saying is the CIA   can actually blame Russia for an attack on an American, because   they’’ll put their fingerprints all over the attack. Meanwhile it   came from within.” ’ ’   He added: ”Well, did that happen in this case or do you think   Hannity’’s really paranoid right now, losing his   ?   Maybe I’’m not so paranoid.” ’ ’   Despite Fox News’’    Tuesday’’s theory made its television debut during Hannity’’s   primetime Fox News show on Wednesday, when Hannity asked several   guests about the theory, citing  titled ”WikiLeaks: CIA Uses ’’Stolen’’   Malware To ’’Attribute’’ Cyberattacks To Nations Like Russia.” ’ ”   Former National Security Agency whistleblower William Binney, who   quit the NSA over a decade ago amid distaste with the agency’s   surveillance program, said it was possible for the CIA to   carry out the act described by conspiracy theorists, but cited   little evidence to support his claim. ” ’   Retired Army Lietenant Colonel Anthony Schaffer, a  who has  and  in the past, took it a step   further, claiming he had unnamed sources described the conspiracy   to him. ’ ’   ”Sean, we did it. Not me, but our guys, former members of NSA,   retired intelligence officers used these tools to break in there   and get the information out. That’s what the Democrats don’t want   to talk about because it doesn’t fit their narrative,” Shaffer   said. ’ ’   ”You’’re telling me this whole Russian story that the media has   been running with for months and months and months  —   that it was   our people that did it, and they put the fingerprints of the   Russians on it?” Hannity asked. ’ ’   ”That’’s right,” Shaffer said. ’ ’   ”Do you have proof of that?” Hannity asked. ’ ’   ”I don’’t have proof of that,” Shaffer replied. ’ ”   For now, it seems commentators feel confident supporting the   theory, even if there’s no evidence to support the charges. ” ’   ”I consider the idea the CIA faked Russian evidence to be MORE   plausible than a sophisticated   of     using an off the shelf and easily detected dimestore hack, don’’t   you?” Mitchell asked Business Insider when asked about the lack   of concrete evidence on Thursday. ’ ’   He added: ”The whole concept of ’’evidence’’ can be misleading.   Clearly, if the CIA did this, they would be careful not to leave   ”evidence.” Regardless, thoughtful men could look at the facts we   do know and consider their ’’planting drugs in Russia’’s trunk’’ on   the DNC hack to be plausible.” ’ ’   Hannity, who did not immediately return a request for comment,   mocked critics on his Thursday radio show: ”’’Hannity you’’ve   become a conspiracy theorist! ’’ No, I’’ve become a realist,” he   said.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Attempts by top former campaign figures to downplay the   campaign’s relationship with Russia have raised suspicion among   intelligence officials about the nature of the ties. ” ”   As law enforcement officials continue to probe Russia’s   involvement in the election, Trump associates like national   security representative  advisor Carter Page,  and current Attorney General Jeff   Sessions have all altered their stories about contact with   Russian officials during the campaign. ” ’   Indeed,  have noted   the argumentative consistency on numerous   topics between Russian   media outlets and     US sources like Breitbart, the Drudge Report,   and Hannity. ’ ’   ”There are powerful parallels between the Russian narrative and   things being said,” former CIA Director Michael Hayden  in an interview this week. ’ ”   The spectre of last summer’s leaks still hangs over many current   and former DNC staffers. ” ”   The hack embarrassed many top staffers, exposing some staffers’   distaste for Sen. Bernie Sanders’ campaign, and forcing   resignation of many top staffers. ” ’   Many of the remaining staffers felt targeted, saying they   experienced   following the incident. ’ ’   ”It was a campaign that I’’ve never experienced before, and I have   seven presidential campaigns under my belt. When I assumed the   chair role, I assumed, ’’Well, this will only take a couple months   out of my life, and I’’ll go back to being Donna. ’’ But it   transformed me,” former DNC chair Donna Brazile . ’ ’   ”I’’ve never gone up against a foreign military intelligence   unit,” Brazile said. ”I don’’t think no campaign manager, no one   in my position has ever had to fight the weaponization of   misinformation, to have your files corrupted and then to be used   as a form of weaponization to sew discord.” ’ ”   This isn’t the first time that WikiLeaks has inspired and stoked   a conspiracy theory about the DNC hacks. ” ”   Last August, the organization  for information about Seth Rich, a DNC   staffer shot while walking home last July. While online   conspiracy theorists speculated that his death was connected to   the DNC hack, Washington’s MPD spokesperson told Business Insider   at the time that there was no evidence connecting Rich’s death to   his work at the DNC. ” ”It didn’t take even 48 hours for an online. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’