’  ’ ’   The scandal that prompted an investigation into hundreds of   Marines who are accused of sharing naked photographs of their   colleagues in a private Facebook group is much larger than has   been reported, Business Insider has learned. ’ ”   The practice of sharing such photos goes beyond the Marine Corps   and one Facebook group. Hundreds of nude photos of female service   members from every military branch have been posted to an     message board that dates back to at least May. A   source informed Business Insider of the site’s existence on   Tuesday. ” ’   The site, called AnonIB, has a dedicated board for military   personnel that features dozens of threaded conversations among   men, many of whom ask for ”wins”  —   naked photographs  —   of   specific female service members, often identifying the women by   name or where they are stationed. ’ ’   The revelation comes on the heels of an explosive story published   on Saturday by the . He reported on a   Facebook group called Marines United, which was home to   approximately 30, 000 members who were sharing nude photos of   colleagues along with personal information and even encouragement   of sexual assault. ’ ”   The report led the Marine Corps to open an investigation, spurred   widespread outrage in the media and in Congress, and  from the Corps’ top leaders.   According to the Naval Criminal Investigative Service,   investigators  that could   carry a maximum penalty of up to seven years in prison. ” ’   An official familiar with the matter told Business Insider that   the Marine commandant, Gen. Robert Neller, would brief members of   the House Armed Services Committee next week on the scandal. ’ ’   ”We’’re examining some of our policies to see if we can make them   punitive in nature,” the official said, adding that the Corps was   taking the issue very seriously. ’ ’  ’ ”   Brennan’s story also led to an apparent exodus of members from   the private Facebook group, though some appeared to have found   the publicly viewable message board soon after  —   with the express   intent of finding the cache of nude images that Marines in the   Facebook group were sharing. ” ’   ”Come on Marines share the wealth here before that site is nuked   and all is lost,” one anonymous user said in a post on Monday,   two days after Brennan’’s story was published.   replies   offered a link to a Dropbox folder named ”Girls of MU” with   thousands of photographs. ’ ’   Dropbox did not respond to a request for comment. ’ ”   Members on the board often posted photos  —   seemingly stolen from   female service members’ Instagram accounts  —   before asking others   if they had nude pictures of a female service member. ” ’   For example, after posting the first name and photograph of a   female soldier in uniform on January 21, one board member asked   for ”Army chick went to [redacted] ig is [redacted].” Another   user, apparently frustrated that no pictures had yet been found,   posted a few days later: ”BUMP. Let’’s see them       .” ’ ’   On another thread, a member posted a photograph on May 30 of a   female service member with her breasts exposed and said, ”She is   in the navy down in san diego, anyone have any more wins?” ’ ’  ’ ’   One user followed up on June 13, offering another nude photo of   the woman. ’ ’   ”Keep them coming! She’’s got them floating around someone [sic]   and I’’ve wanted to see this for a while,” another user wrote in   response. ’ ’   Some requested nude photographs by unit or location. ’ ’   One user asked in September for photos of women in the   Massachusetts National Guard, while another requested some from   the Guard in Michigan. Other requests included nude pictures of   any women stationed at Fort Hood in Texas, Fort Bragg in North   Carolina, McConnell Air Force Base in Kansas, or Naval Medical   Center in San Diego, along with many more US military   installations around the world. ’ ’   In statements to Business Insider, military branches denounced   the message board and promised discipline for any service members   who engaged in misconduct. ’ ’   ”This alleged behavior is inconsistent with our values,” Lt. Col.   Myles Caggins, a spokesman for the Department of Defense, told   Business Insider. ’ ’   Capt. Ryan Alvis, a spokeswoman for the Marine Corps, told   Business Insider that the service expects the discovery of the   Marines United page will motivate others to come forward to   report other pages like it. ’ ’   ”Marines will attack this problem   and continue to get   better,” Alvis said. ’ ’   Lt. Col. Jennifer Johnson, a spokeswoman for the Army, told   Business Insider: ”The Army is a   organization where   everyone is expected to be treated with dignity and respect. As   members of the Army team, individuals’’ interaction offline and   online reflect on the Army and its values. Soldiers or civilian   employees who participate in or condone misconduct, whether   offline or online, may be subject to criminal, disciplinary,     administrative action.” ’ ’   Air Force spokesman Zachary Anderson told Business Insider: ”We   expect our Airmen to adhere to these values at all times and to   treat their fellow service members with the highest degree of   dignity and respect. Any conduct or participation in activities,   whether online or offline, that does not adhere to these   principles will not be tolerated. Airmen or civilian employees   who engage in activities of misconduct that demean or disrespect   fellow service members will be appropriately disciplined.” ’ ’   The Navy did not respond to a request for comment. ’ ’   The image board hosts disturbing conversations that in many cases   appear to be between   personnel. ’ ’   ”Any wins of [redacted]?” read one request, which shared further   details about a female Marine’’s whereabouts, indicating the user   likely worked with her in the past. ’ ’   Another thread, posted in November, that had dozens of     comments from users acting as   to track down the   victim started with a single photograph of a female Marine, fully   clothed, taken from her Instagram account. ’ ’   ”Any wins?” that user asked, telling others the Marine’’s first   name and where she had been stationed. ’ ’   One user hinted at her last name as others scoured her Instagram   account, posting more photos they had found. One photo of the   victim and her friend prompted one user to ask for nude photos of   the friend as well: ”Any of the dark haired girl in the green   shirt and jeans next to her?” ’ ’  ’ ’   The thread carried on for months. ’ ’   ”Amazing thread,” one user wrote. ”Hope we can find more on this   gem.” ’ ’   In December, a nude photo was finally posted. ”Dudeee more,” one   user wrote in response. Many others responded by ”bumping” the   thread to the top so that others on the board would see it and   potentially post more photos. Indeed, more photos soon appeared   from the victim’’s Instagram account, which was apparently made   private or shut down numerous times. ’ ’   On the board, users complained that her Instagram account kept   disappearing, apparently because she was trying to thwart her   harassers. But others quickly found her new accounts and told   others, and the new Instagram account names were shared   throughout February. ’ ’   ”Oh god please someone have that    ” one user wrote. ’ ’  ’ ’   The site that hosts the message board seems to have little   moderation and few rules, though it tells users ”Don’’t be evil.”   Its rules instruct members to not post personal details such as   addresses, telephone numbers, links to social networks, or last   names. ’ ’   Still, many users on the board do not appear to follow those   rules. ’ ’   In one popular thread, started on January 9, an anonymous user   posted   pictures of a female airman, telling others in   the caption: ”Anyone know her or have anything else on her? I’’ve   got a lot more if there is interest. Would love for her friends   and family to see these.” ’ ’   The user, who suggested in the accompanying captions that he was   a jilted   posted many more photos in the hours and   days after. ’ ’   ”She knows how to end it all. If she does get in contact with me   I won’’t post anymore. So get it while it’’s hot!” he wrote. ’ ’   Later in the thread, the man even referred to the airman by name   and told her to check her Instagram messages. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Wow, she blocked me on Instagram!” he later wrote. ”Stupid       must want me to post her     up. I gave her a choice, it didn’’t   have to be this way. I’’m not a bad guy, she had a choice. Oh   well, no point in holding back now. I want you all to share this   everywhere you can, once I start seeing her more places I’’ll post   her video.” ’ ’   Aside from those on active duty, some users who identified   themselves as cadets at some military service academies started   threads to try to find nude photos of their female classmates. ’ ’   In a thread dedicated to the US Military Academy at West Point,   some users who appeared to be cadets shared photos and graduation   years of their female classmates. ’ ’   ”What about the basketball locker room pics, I know someone has   those,” one user said, apparently referring to photos taken   surreptitiously in a women’’s locker room. ”I always wondered   whether those made it out of the academy computer system,”   another user responded. ’ ’   In 2012, an Army sergeant who helped train and mentor cadets was   discovered to have secretly filmed more than a dozen women    at West   Point. The soldier  and was sentenced   in 2014 to 33 months in prison. ’ ’   A representative for West Point did not respond to a request for   comment. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Bumping all 3 service academies’’ threads to see who can post the   best wins in the next 7 days. Winning school gets the   [commander’’s cup],” one user wrote. ”Go Army, Beat Everyone.” ’ ’   The existence of a site dedicated solely to sharing nude   photographs of female service members is another black mark for   the Pentagon, which has been criticized in the past for failing   to deal with rampant sexual harassment and abuse within the   ranks. ’ ’   A 2014 Rand Corporation  that more than 20, 000 service   members had been sexually assaulted in the previous year. Nearly   six times as many reported being sexually harassed. In some   cases, the military has pushed out    instead of the perpetrators. ’ ’   ”I’’m kind of surprised. I’’m still naive, I think, on some level,”   said Kate Hendricks Thomas, a former Marine Corps officer who is   now an assistant professor at Charleston Southern University. ”I   am really disappointed to hear that the reach is broader than   30, 000 and a couple of   websites.” ’ ’   Thomas criticized past responses to the problem, in which some   had indicated the issue was too difficult for the military to   wrap its arms around. ’ ’   ”This renders us less  . It’’s got to be a   priority,” she said. ’ ’   ”These websites are not boys being boys,” she added. ”This is a   symptom of rape culture.” ’ ”   The message board also presents a challenge for military leaders,   who may face an uphill battle in trying to find  —   and potentially   prosecute  —     service members who shared photos on the   site. Unlike the Marines United Facebook group, where many users   posted under their real names, the message board’s user base is   mostly anonymous, and the site itself is registered in the   Bahamas, outside the jurisdiction of US law enforcement. ” ’   Brad Moss, a lawyer who specializes in   issues,   told Business Insider that the military may have a hard time   persuading the internet service provider to shut down the   website. Instead, he said, the victims themselves may have more   legal standing if they were to contact the ISP to remove the   photos. ’ ’   Still, Moss said he believes the military could squash the   behavior if it adopted a ” ” posture. ’ ’   ”I think that absolutely, 100% should be the policy if they   catch the main perpetrators who are sharing these photos around   and essentially engaging in revenge porn,” Moss said. ”They   should have a   policy and boot them from the   military with a dishonorable discharge. ’ ’   ”If they do anything less, it’’s only going to incentivize this   behavior in the future,” he added. ”This has to be treated   harshly.” ’ ’The scandal that prompted an investigation into. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’