’  ’ ’    A  Attorney General Jeff   Sessions reiterated his position on conservative radio host Hugh   Hewitt’’s show on Thursday morning, saying that the Justice   Department will commit to enforcing federal laws on   marijuana in an ”appropriate way.” ’ ’   ”[M]arijuana is against federal law, and that applies in states   where they may have repealed their own   laws,”   Sessions told Hewitt. ” ’ ’   The marijuana industry has been watching Sessions closely. If the   Trump Administration were to crack down on states with legalized   marijuana, the Department of Justice would have to lead the   charge. In other words, marijuana  whenever Sessions mentions the   topic. ’ ’   Marijuana industry lawyers and compliance experts who spoke to   Business Insider described an industry on edge. ’ ’   ”There’’s a degree of nervousness running through this industry   generally,” Brian Vicente, a partner at the   law firm   Vicente Sederberg and one of the authors of Colorado’’s amendment   to legalize marijuana, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”People have staked their life savings on this, and devoted years   of their lives to building up their brand,” Vicente said, noting   that some of his clients employ ”hundreds” of people.  ’ ’   Although  ’ ’   President Trump himself has stayed mum on the topic since the   campaign trail  —   where he discussed  to legalize  —   though   his press secretary, Sean Spicer,  during a press briefing in   February. ’ ’  ’ ’   In this time of uncertainty, Vicente says that he’’s telling his   clients to ”really clamp down” on compliance. The     fruit Sessions is likely to go after first are dispensaries or   other marijuana companies who are receiving complaints from   neighbors, serving underage customers, or playing      with their taxes. ’ ’   ”It’’s safe to say Sessions is going to come after companies   viewed as bad actors,” Vicente said. ”This sort of     on compliance will keep our customers from falling within those   crosshairs.” ’ ’   Sessions himself told Hewitt much of the same on Thursday   morning. ’ ’   ”Neighbors are complaining, and lawsuits are being filed against   them,” Sessions said. However, Sessions did admit that it’’s not   possible for the federal government to go in and enforce federal   law in every legal state, where police and local authorities   are beholden to state law. ’ ’   Eight states  —     —   live in   states with legalized marijuana. ’ ’   Amy Margolis, a partner at Greenspoon Marder’’s Cannabis Law   practice, said that now’’s the time to become ” ”   of her clients as we ”head into unknown times.” ’ ’   The federal government’’s approach to the marijuana industry is   governed by the   Cole Memorandum, which stipulates that   the Justice Department place ”low priority” on enforcing   marijuana laws against businesses and organizations that comply   with state law. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Cole Memorandum makes it difficult for the Justice   Department and the DEA to go after marijuana companies, Keegan   Peterson, the CEO of  a compliance and payroll   platform for marijuana companies in Colorado, told Business   Insider. Agencies like the IRS and the Department of Labor could   pose problems for the marijuana industry, however.  ’ ’   ”C ’ ’   Vicente, the marijuana lawyer, thinks that Sessions will   eventually have to ” ” Cole Memorandum in order to   enforce federal laws. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Though the Trump Administration has tried to frame the   arguments against marijuana legalization as a public health issue    —     —     Margolis says the economic benefits outweigh the health   argument of which ”there’’s no evidence to support.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We have tried hard to shift this conversation to an   economic one and have been very successful with voters,” Margolis   said. ”If the new administration does crackdown on regulated   cannabis they will be doing it in the face of a majority of   American voters who support state’s rights to regulate cannabis   how they see fit.” ’ ’   BMI Research, one of the few companies to publish regular   analysis on the marijuana industry, is still bullish despite   the ambiguity coming down from the Trump Administration: ’ ’   BMI notes the bipartisan support from members of Congress for   legalization. Conservatives, focused on the   see   marijuana legalization as a way to reduce federal spending on   criminal justice and healthcare. Progressives, meanwhile, oppose   the lopsided incarceration of minority groups for marijuana   crimes.  ’ ’   In his written responses to the Senate Judiciary Committee   at his confirmation hearing,  ’ ”   To Peterson, the CEO of Wurk, the numbers add up in favor of the   federal government keeping the   approach. Some   projections show the legal marijuana industry   —   overtaking the manufacturing sector’s job   creation.  ” ’   ”We have a private sector president,” Peterson said. ”Cannabis is   a major part of Colorado’’s economy. Taking it away would   be really detrimental to the state’’s economy.” ’ ’Jeff Sessions is an opponent of legalizing. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’