’  ’ ”   The White House correspondent for a   blog accused a Fox   News Radio reporter of assaulting him before Friday’s press   briefing, a charge both a Fox News representative and the   reporter flatly denied. ” ’   Lucian Wintrich, a writer for the blog Gateway Pundit, said on   Twitter that Jon Decker, a White House correspondent for Fox News   Radio, grabbed his arm ”while shouting” he’’s ”a Nazi.” ’ ’   ”He came out of nowhere and cornered me in the back room, not   letting me pass,” . ”He’’s a truly sick guy. Fox needs to address   behavior like this in their staff.” ’ ’   Wintrich tweeted several photos, one of which appeared to show   Decker in close proximity to him: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tJon Decker asulted me at today’s briefing.    is this behavior something you tolerate over there? He’s sick .  ” ’   Decker said in a statement provided to Business Insider that he   had a ”conversation with a representative from the online   publication Gateway Pundit” but that at no time did he get   physical with him. ’ ’   ”The conversation was straightforward and direct,” he said. ”I   also informed the full White House pool that this representative   was present in the Briefing Room. At no time did I accost or   assault this individual. More than a dozen witnesses will attest   to this fact.” ’ ”   A Fox News representative also denied the assault allegations to   Business Insider and said that Decker, a lawyer, was upset with   some of Wintrich’s previous tweets and sought only to notify   other members of the press corps that the Gateway Pundit writer   was attending the daily briefing. ” ’   Adrian Carrasquillo, a White House correspondent for BuzzFeed   News,  that Decker ”loudly told   everyone in [the] briefing room” that Gateway Pundit was a blog   that hates ”blacks, Jews, Hispanics.” ’ ’   ”Wild,” Carrasquillo said about the incident. ’ ’   Wintrich later said he would file ”assault and harassment   charges” against Decker after the meeting. ’ ’   Wintrich did not immediately respond to a request for comment.   Jim Hoft, the editor and publisher of Gateway Pundit, stood by   his employee. ’ ’   ”I think we are going to try to press charges or at least report   the incident,” Hoft said in a short phone call. ”What he did was   totally uncalled for.” ’ ’   Hoft said in a   email that charges had not yet been   filed but that he had contacted the White House about the   incident. A White House representative did not immediately   respond to a request for comment. ’ ’   The Gateway Pundit is a   blog notorious for peddling   misinformation under the banner of inflammatory headlines and was   only recently granted White House press credentials. On Thursday   night, for instance, the website drew scorn for suggesting former   President Barack Obama was not born in the US but in Kenya  —   a   debunked conspiracy theory to which even President Donald Trump   has said he no longer subscribes. ’ ’The White House correspondent for a  . ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’