’  ’ ’   A recent report from the  details how the   US massively upgraded the lethality of its     nuclear missiles  —   and US adversaries like Russia may be spooked   to the point of considering countermeasures. ’ ”   Essentially, the US’s latest update to its Trident missiles   aboard US Navy submarines ensures that each and every single   missile will explode at precisely the right moment to devastate   any target. ” ’   Because of this new ”super fuze,” or timing element, the US’’s     ballistic missile fleet has tripled in   destructive potential, according to the report. ’ ”   This is important because US military planners previously only   relied on   missiles to strike soft targets   like military bases. Now these missiles could be used to wipe out   Russia’s nukes buried deep underground.  ” ’   ”Because of improvements in the killing power of US     ballistic missiles, those submarines now   patrol with more than three times the number of warheads needed   to destroy the entire fleet of Russian   missiles in   their silos,” wrote Hans M. Kristensen, Matthew McKinzie, and   Theodore A. Postol, the authors of the report. ’ ”   But the US has even bigger nukes which sit in missile silos   underground as ICBMs. Historically, these missiles would have   been used for destroying Russia’s ICBMs, but since submarines can   handle that now, the US can focus its big nukes on   obliterating underground hardened nuclear shelters  —   the kind   Kremlin officials would hide out in during an attack. ” ”   From a US perspective,   nuclear missile   capability has surged, but don’t expect Russia to share the   enthusiasm.  ” ’   Unlike the US, which can spot missile launches from space, Russia   would have virtually no warning of an incoming missile besides   its   radars, which have limited range.  ’ ’   ”Russian military and political leaders would have no   ’’situational awareness’’ to help them assess whether an     radar indication of a surprise attack is real or   the result of a technical error,” the scientists write. ’ ’  ’ ’   So Russian defense officials would have less than 15 minutes to   decide if an incoming object was legitimate, where it was coming   from, and how they should respond. This places a whole lot of   responsibility on the shoulders of Russian military officials. ’ ’   ”The combination of this lack of Russian situational awareness,   dangerously short warning times,   alert postures,   and the increasing US strike capacity has created a deeply   destabilizing and dangerous strategic nuclear situation,” argues   the piece.  ’ ’A recent report from the Bulletin of Atomic. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’