’  ’ ’   Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau received an unusually warm   reception of his keynote address at an energy industry conference   in Texas on Thursday evening. ’ ’   ”No country would find 173 billion barrels of oil in the ground   and just leave them there,” Trudeau said in his address to oil   and gas industry executives at Houston’’s  conference, discussing   Alberta’’s vast oil sands reserves. ’ ”   Trudeau’s speech was met with a standing ovation from the more   than 1, 200 attendees  —   an unordinary reaction to a keynote   speaker,   . The prime minister was also given an award for   his efforts to balance environmental protection and energy   production. ” ’   ”The resource will be developed. Our job is to ensure that this   is done responsibly, safely, and sustainably,” Trudeau said.   ”Nothing is more essential to the US economy than access to a   secure, reliable source of energy. Canada is that source.” ’ ’   Trudeau has been under fire from Canada’’s oil industry after he   stumbled while discussing the topic in January. He told an   audience in Ontario that the oil sands should be phased out,   later telling  that he ”misspoke.” ’ ”   Trudeau’s speech also touted his support for the Keystone XL   pipeline, one of the few areas where he and US President Donald   Trump share common ground. ” ”   He further discussed juggling the priorities of combatting   climate change and bolstering Canada’s oil and gas industry. ” ’  ’ ”   Under Trudeau, Canada’s Liberal government has approved new   pipelines while working with provinces to . ” ’   The prime minister has long maintained that developing     resources can go ”hand in hand” with fighting climate   change. ’ ’   ”It’’s a tremendous business opportunity to lead on climate   change,” Trudeau . He said that one of the   fundamental responsibilities of his office was to get ”resources   to market” in ”sustainable ways” while also working to strengthen   Canada’’s middle class. ’ ’   ”You cannot make a choice anymore on what’’s good for the   environment and what’’s good for the economy,” Trudeau told The   Guardian. ’ ”   Trudeau on Thursday also took a parting shot at the Trump   administration’s  which wouldn’t allow business   to deduct the cost of imported goods. ” ’   ”Anything that creates impediments at the border, extra tariffs,   or new taxes is something we are concerned with,” Trudeau said.   ”You can applaud against the border adjustment tax.” ’ ’ ’ ’Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau received. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’