’  ’ ’   ”I feel tired all the time.”  ’ ’   ”It can be tough to concentrate, and I have this need to nap,”   says a voiceover while images of people falling asleep on   public transportation or at the movies flash across the   television screen.  ’ ’   The footage in this . But then comes a surprise: ’ ’   ”It could be narcolepsy.” ’ ’   Narcolepsy  —   most commonly known as the condition that   leaves people falling asleep unexpectedly  —   affects roughly    in the US. In addition to the sleepiness,   another symptom is cataplexy, a condition where the body   suddenly loses muscle tone after the person expresses strong   emotions, like laughing. ’ ”   So chances are pretty good that if you’re sleepy  —   it is   not narcolepsy.  ” ”   Certainly, narcolepsy is serious for the 0. 05% of Americans who   suffer from it, but the advertisement described above is running   on prime time cable television. And that begs the question that’s   often asked about widely broadcast consumer ads for such uncommon   conditions: Why do drug companies do this? ” ’   The answer is simply ”because it works.” But, that’’s only true if   the drug meets certain conditions  —   namely that it needs to be   expensive. ’ ’   These types of ads are expected to grow 10% per year, with drug   companies spending $8 billion on ads by 2020 up from  according to ZS Associates, a sales and   marketing firm focused on the healthcare industry. ’ ’   And the ads the pharma companies are running are targeting   incredibly tiny populations. Also on TV these days is an ad for   people with a certain kind of advanced small cell lung cancer,   and a treatment for a  Prescriptions for these can cost upward of   $100, 000 a year. ’ ’   ZS principal Pratap Khedkar told Business Insider that running   ads for these expensive specialty products makes sense. Sure, you   might be spending more per potential patient, but because the   drugs cost so much, it pays off. ’ ’   ”It’’s not very profitable, but it’’s not making a loss,” Khedkar   said. The total spending might be $400 or $500 per known case,   but the drugmaker can make that back easily with a     specialty medicine.  ’ ’   The narcolepsy ad isn’’t quite the same as one for, say,   Opdivo   a lung cancer immunotherapy. For one thing, it is   an ”” and doesn’’t name a specific drug. It does direct   people to a website that then encourages them to     their condition, and then find a sleep specialist   who, presumably, would just prescribe the drug behind all this. ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ”   That drug is called Xyrem. It is owned by Jazz Pharmaceuticals  —     which is running the ads  —   and it’s the only approved drug that   treats cataplexy and daytime sleepiness. ” ’   And, it costs roughly  (taken nightly) after Jazz increased the   price at least . There is generic alternative,   though, which was just approved in January.  ’ ’   Jazz didn’’t respond to Business Insider’’s requests for comment on   the ad campaign or its intentions, but a spokeswoman did   tell  in   November 2016, that ”we believe that, over time, a targeted   narcolepsy awareness initiative may increase the number of   patients diagnosed with narcolepsy and may help reduce the time   from disorder onset to diagnosis.”   So, for the next time you’’re watching TV and being asked if you   might have narcolepsy  —   now you know why. ’ ’”I feel tired all the time.”  ”It can be. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’