’  ’ ’   Republican Sen. Lindsay Graham told the FBI on Tuesday that it   would ”” if it failed to respond to his subcommittee’’s   letter asking for ”copies of any warrant applications and court   orders” related to any wiretaps of President Donald Trump. ’ ”   Graham, the chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s   Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism,  to FBI Director James Comey and the acting   deputy attorney general last week requesting any information they   might have about wiretapping that targeted the Trump campaign   before the election. ” ’   The letter came after Trump’’s explosive tweets that alleged,   without evidence, that President Barack Obama had Trump Tower’’s   ”wires tapped” during the presidential campaign. The White House   released a statement shortly thereafter ”requesting that as part   of their investigation into Russian activity, the congressional   intelligence committees exercise their oversight authority to   determine whether executive branch investigative powers were   abused in 2016.” ’ ”   The president does not have the unilateral authority to order a   wiretap on suspected foreign spies operating inside the US,   experts say. Doing so  that would implicate career civil   servants and necessitate a huge  . Rather, law enforcement   and intelligence agencies wishing to monitor signal intelligence   they deem relevant to an investigation  —   in this case, Russia’s   interference in the 2016 election  —   must obtain a warrant from   the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. ” ”   While Trump called for the House and Senate intelligence   committees to look into the matter, it is the Department of   Justice’s criminal division that obtains warrants for wiretaps  —     a division that is overseen by Graham’s subcommittee. ” ’’ ’   Graham and Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, the subcommittee’’s Democratic   ranking member, wrote earlier this month that while they ”take   any abuse of wiretapping authorities for political purposes very   seriously,” they were requesting that the Justice Department   ”provide us copies of any warrant applications and court orders   . .. related to wiretaps of President Trump, the Trump Campaign,   or Trump Tower.” ’ ’   ”We would be equally alarmed to learn that a court found enough   evidence of criminal activity or contact with a foreign power to   legally authorize a wiretap of President Trump, the Trump   Campaign, or Trump Tower,” the senators wrote. ’ ’   Graham said on Tuesday that his subcommittee would hold a hearing   on Wednesday examining ”Russian efforts to undermine   democracies.” He told reporters that if the FBI did not respond   to his letter before the hearing, he would ”make an announcement   and let the FBI know they are about to screw up big time  —   if   they keep running to the intel committee and not answer that   letter.” ’ ’   ”We have jurisdiction over the FBI,” . ”I like Director Comey a lot. But . .. all things legal   come through the judiciary committee. If they don’’t honor this   request and give us an answer then I would say that we need a   joint select committee because the regular order is not working.” ’ ”   A joint select committee is made up of members of both the House   and the Senate and is established to investigate broad, complex   issues that touch upon several standing committees’   jurisdictions. ” ’   Reached for comment, Graham’’s office said the senator has been   ”pushing for a Select Committee from the start to investigate all   issues related to Russia.” ’ ’   ”The Judiciary Committee generally has oversight of the FBI,”   said Graham’’s communications director, Kevin Bishop. ”The Intel   Committee does not. . .. We sent a letter to the FBI with Sen.   Whitehouse and are awaiting their response.” ’ ’   The FBI declined to comment, except to say that ”we provide any   responses to congressional letters to the lawmakers.” ’ ’Republican Sen. Lindsay Graham told the FBI on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’