’  ’ ’   Former pharmaceutical executive Martin Shkreli is trolling   journalists who have written about him by purchasing the   internet domains associated with their names. ’ ’   A recent look at the domains bought by Shkreli noted that he   bought domain names for at least 10 people in the past several   months, 5 of whom work in media and have written and tweeted   about the former Turing Pharmaceuticals founder. ’ ’   Shkreli, of course, sparked national outrage when he raised the   price for a drug used to   combat a disease that can be fatal to people with HIV. ’ ’   Over the past five months, Shkreli has purchased domains   associated with writers from Vice, Vanity Fair, AOL, Bloomberg,   Dealbreaker, and Gizmodo, along with others associated with other   individuals critical of Shkreli on social media.  ’ ’   Shkreli didn’’t appear to be too happy when Noisey reporter   Phil Witmer  titled ”Lil B Shouts Out Martin Shkreli, We   All Die a Little Inside,” in which he dubbed Shkreli a ”living   cartoon gremlin,” and called rapper Lil B’’s shoutout a   ”stain on BasedGod’’s good name.” ’ ’   The   who did not respond to a request for comment, posted   an   video mocking Witmer, and became so upset when   he realized Witmer blocked him on Twitter that Shkreli purchased   ”philwitmer. com.” ’ ’   ”Can I buy philwitmer. com right now? Yes I can, and yes I will,”    to whoever was watching his livestream. ’ ’   In the weeks after Shkreli’’s Twitter account was suspended   in January for  the former   exec started buying up domain names for journalists,   snagging ”marrymelauren. com” on the day he was suspended. ’ ”   Max Nisen suffered a similar fate as Witmer  —   Shkreli  a   call between himself and the Bloomberg pharma reporter after he   tweeted about Shkreli’s suspension from Twitter in January. ” ’   Shkreli appears to enjoy toying with reporters  —   he often posts   private exchanges with journalists on his social media profiles. ’ ’   When STAT correspondent Dylan Scott reached out to Shkreli   for a story about his criticism of drug companies, the former   CEO ”put this geek journalist on notice,” posting a private   exchange .  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tguys, I have been cyberbullied by Martin Shkrelibut I’m here to tell you, I made it through’t’t’ ”   But personal emails weren’t the only domain names Shkreli wanted   to lock down. ” ’   In October, Shkreli went on a buying spree, cornering the market   on the site ”thotpatrol,” a slang term short for ”That Ho Over   There.” In rapid succession, Shkreli scooped up   thotpatrol. com, thotpatrol. info, thotpatrol. net, and   thotpatrol. org, ensuring that competitors would never be   able to imitate whatever he has in mind for thotpatrol. ’ ”   Since raising the prices of Daraprim, Shkreli has both   embraced and attempted to distance himself from his . He’s smirked his way through   testimony on Capitol Hill about the price of drugs, while   arguing he’s been unfairly demonized by the public when   other pharma companies raise drug prices. ” ’Former pharmaceutical executive Martin Shkreli. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’