This article is part of a series aimed at helping you navigate life’s opportunities and challenges. What else should we write about? Contact us: smarterliving@nytimes. com. A few years ago, I was sitting in an Yves Saint Laurent presentation (this was before the Hedi Slimane era, when it was still YSL) when a model appeared in a short black silk tuxedo jumpsuit. It was sleek and elegant and hemmed at the upper thigh. She was wearing it with black tights and heels, and suddenly I thought: “Oh, this could solve a lot of my       problems on those days when I have to go to a   event for work and don’t feel like putting on a dress. I should get one!” (I know: We should all have such problems. But I have spent embarrassing amounts of time wrestling with what to wear to   work events, time that could have been put to much better use. Odds are you will experience this at some point, too.) Still, this thought was followed fairly quickly with another: “Get a grip. You are well into middle age. You should not be wearing a shorts tuxedo jumpsuit. ” I took a breath, and moved on. But it was not an isolated incident. As dressing rules have relaxed, and exercise has improved, some of the traditional realities that used to define adult dressing (covering up flappy upper arms or saggy knees, for example) no longer apply. And so, what it means to dress like a   has become ever more complicated. Just because you can wear something  —   just because your legs are good enough, your stomach flat enough, your imagination wild enough, your   young enough  —   does not mean you should. But how do you know when you have crossed that line? Old axioms like “Dress for the job you want” cease to have meaning in a world where power dressing can mean a suit and tie or a gray   and Tevas. Once upon a time, an adult wardrobe was built on items of clothing that signaled arrival in the   world: a trench coat instead of a raincoat, a leather belt instead of a webbed belt, a suit instead of jeans, a good handbag, etc. etc. This is no longer the case. Now adult clothes have less to do with specific items than certain defining characteristics. This makes selecting them both more difficult and more liberating. Yet because your clothes are the first thing to be judged by those who see you  —   be they friends or clients or employers  —   the choice matters. A lot. So I have come up with the following three golden rules of   garb. They may seem as if they apply only to workplace settings, but they are equally useful in private life. If you remember no other rule, or ignore the rest of them, please remember this: Clothes should not be the focus of attention, which is to say, they should not be what colleagues or friends remember after a meeting. This generally means you should not have to fiddle with straps, waistbands, decoration or any other part of a garment. Brevity, for example, may be the soul of wit, but it is less desirable in hemlines. You have better things to do with your time than spend it pulling down a skirt or worrying if too much sock is showing. Similarly, clothes should not be so revealing that what anyone in your vicinity remembers is a body part as opposed to an idea (unless you are a personal trainer, in which case that is exactly what you want them to remember). Generally speaking, transparency is good when it comes to collaborative strategy, and bad when it comes to shirts. The point is: You want people around you to think about what you say, not what your clothes say. They should support performance, but not be a performance. Part of dressing like an adult is dressing in a way that distinguishes your   self from your adolescent self  —   a way that says to you and all who see you, “I am now at this life stage. ” To a certain extent, this means playacting at adulthood until your inside catches up with your outside. (I cannot tell you the moment when my husband and I stopped saying “honey” to each other in the kind of sarcastic “can you believe we’re married” way and started saying it in the totally   “pass the milk” way, but it happened.) It means that if you see a garment and think “costume,” that doesn’t mean you should avoid said garment it may even mean you should buy it. It will start to feel natural soon enough. Sometimes, for example, I will be at a fashion show, see an outfit and think, “If I were a child, that is exactly how I would want my mother to dress. ” Meaning that whatever I am looking at (usually something elegant, flexible, packable and smart, often involving a pencil skirt and peplum) seems to me like the costume of a chic parent, which is the character I play in my mind. Figure out your own chosen role, and dress for the part. The single biggest signifier of adulthood, at least when it comes to clothing, is not any single style of garment but the condition of them all: whether they are spotted, stained, wrinkled, torn and so on whether they are missing a button, look as if they have been dropped on the floor, crumpled up in a corner, shoved to the back of the drawer or any of the other telltale signs that the wearers expect someone else to tidy up for them. Because that, in turn, is a telltale sign that they have not gone out on their own just yet.   clothes suggest clothes that are valued, which suggests clothes that have been earned  —   which suggests independence. And that suggests adulthood. You know how your mother always told you to pick up after yourself? It wasn’t nagging. It was preparation.