’The US government has detonated hundreds upon hundreds of nuclear weapons in secret.’ ’Researchers carried out  from 1945 up until 1963  —   when the first nuclear   treaty was signed.’ ’The goals of the tests were straightforward: detonate new bomb designs, measure their explosive power (called yield) and estimate what might happen to enemies unfortunate enough to be a target.’ ’About 10, 000 videos of such tests were filmed, analyzed, and locked away in   vaults, where they were nearly forgotten. Most started to decay over the decades.’ ’However, more than 50 years later, a team of scientists at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) is working   and   to  the   films.’ ’”This is it. We got to this project just in time,” Greg Spriggs, a   physicist at LLNL, said in  about the digitization effort. ”We know that these films are on the brink of decomposing, to the point where they will become useless. ”’ ”Over the past five years, Spriggs’ team has scanned 6, 500 films and declassified 750 of the    videos. Several dozen have been uploaded  with more on the way.” ’”These films are priceless to us,” Spriggs told Business Insider.’ ’Here are some of the highlights from the videos, many of them recorded in the remote deserts of Nevada.’ ’This test, called ”Housatonic,” was one of 31 nuclear blasts in Operation Dominic.’ ’The device was detonated about 12, 100 feet (3, 700 meters) above the Johnston Atoll in the Pacific Ocean and yielded a blast of 8. 3 megatons  —   more than 400 times as strong as either of the bombs dropped on Japan during World War II.’ ’Sources: ”” (PDF); ’ ’Shown here is ”Harlem,” a 1.  blast from June 1962, which was also a part of Operation Dominic.’ ’The bomb was detonated about 13, 650 feet (4, 160 meters) above Christmas Island, which is located in the Indian Ocean.’ ’Sources: ”” (PDF); ’ ’”Tesla,” shown here, was a relatively small blast of 7 kilotons, or less than half the yield of the bomb detonated over Hiroshima.’ ’It was part of Operation Teapot and exploded about 300 feet (90 meters) in the air on March 1, 1955.’ ’Sources: ”” (PDF); ’ ’Here’’s another view of the ”Tesla” blast. ’ ’Sources: ”” (PDF); ’ ’”Rushmore”  —   part of Operation   in October 1958  —   blew up with a yield of only 188 tons’’ worth of TNT dynamite.’ ’It was set off from a balloon that was tethered about 490 feet (150 meters) off the ground.’ ’Smaller  —   which the American, Russian, and Pakistani militaries have developed but never used in battle  —   could have blasts like the one in this footage.’ ’Sources: ; ”” (PDF); ’ ’Operation Teapot’’s ”Turk” test blast was about 43 kilotons, or nearly three times greater than the Hiroshima blast. It was detonated ’ ’’ ’’ ’Sources: ”” (PDF); ’ ’Operation Plumbbob’’s detonation of ”Rainier” on September 19, 1957 yielded only 1. 7 kilotons. However, it was the first nuclear explosion ever to be fully contained underground  —   and leak no radioactive fallout into the air.’ ’The shock wave could be detected around the world. At the lower left, you can see a giant boulder rolling down the hill at the Nevada National Security Site.’ ’The test led the way for larger subterranean tests, especially after the Limited Nuclear   Treaty went into effect in August 1963.’ ’ Sources: ; ; ; ”” (PDF); ’ ’The US government has detonated hundreds upon. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’