’  ’ ”   FBI Director James Comey and National Security Agency Director   Mike Rogers, in extraordinary testimony before the House   Intelligence Committee on Monday, confirmed an investigation into   President Trump’s ties to Russia and disputed his explosive   claims of wiretapping from his predecessor. ” ’   The hearing was the first time either Comey or Rogers has   testified publicly since Trump was inaugurated. It came just over   two weeks after Trump tweeted, without presenting evidence, that   Obama had Trump Tower’’s ”wires tapped” during the presidential   campaign. ’ ’   Comey said in his opening statement that ”our practice is not to   confirm the existence of ongoing investigations . .. but, in   unusual circumstances, where it lies in the public interest, it   may be necessary to do so.” ’ ’   ”I have been authorized by the Department of Justice to confirm   that the FBI is investigating Russia’’s interference in the US   election,” Comey added, which ”includes whether there was any   coordination between the campaign and Russian efforts. This will   also include an assessment of whether any crimes were committed.   I can not say more about whose conduct we are investigating.” ’ ’   He added that the leak of classified intelligence ”simply cannot   be tolerated.”  ’ ’   Both the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Rep. Devin   Nunes, and the committee’’s top Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff, have   said that the committee had not found any evidence to support   Trump’’s claim that Obama had Trump Tower phones ”tapped” before   the 2016 election. ’ ’   But in an example of their seemingly divergent priorities, Nunes   and other Republicans focused much of their attention on Monday   on grilling Comey about leaks from within the intelligence   community to the press. ’ ’   ”I hope you find those guys and I hope you crack them on the   head,” Republican Rep. Chris Stewart told Comey. ’ ’   At one point, Nunes asked Comey whether he thought it was   possible that the Russians had colluded with the Clinton   campaign, too, and asked if he would take evidence of such   collusion seriously if it surfaced. ’ ’   Comey said he could not comment on hypotheticals but said he   would take any evidence seriously. ’ ’  ’ ’   Schiff and other Democrats, meanwhile, focused their questions on   whether the FBI had evidence of collusion between the Trump   campaign and Russia. ’ ”   When asked whether he could confirm that Trump associates ever   contacted Russian officials, Comey said he couldn’t comment. He   also declined to comment on whether any current   administration officials are currently under FBI investigation,   and said he could not comment on whether   the intelligence community had found any evidence of direct   collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. ” ’   ”All I can tell you is what we’’re investigating, which includes   an investigation into whether there was coordination between the   Trump campaign and the Russians,” Comey said, adding that there   was ”no way to give a timetable” for when the investigation   would conclude. ’ ’   The FBI opened its investigation in late July, after WikiLeaks   started publishing emails that had been stolen from the   Democratic National Committee. Congress was not informed until   now, due to ”sensitivities,” about the investigation involving   Trump’’s contacts with Russia, Comey said. ’ ’   He added noted that by December,  ’ ’   ”It was a fairly easy judgment for the community,” Comey   said. ”Putin hated Secretary Clinton so much that he had a   clear preference to the person running against her.” ’ ’   ”Do Russians historically prefer Republicans to Democrats?” Nunes   asked Comey and Rogers. Both appeared confused and replied that   they had not assessed the Russians’’ preferences in past   elections. ’ ’  ’ ’   Comey confirmed later that the FBI    been given access to the servers to investigate   the hack further. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   When asked about Trump’’s claim on Monday, via Twitter, that   Comey had said the Russian inteference did not influence the   electoral process, Comey replied that ”we have no   information” about ”the potential impact” the Russian   interference had on the presidential election. ’ ’   ”That is not something that we assessed,” Comey said. He   confirmed that while the FBI ”saw no indication” that the   Russians attempted to hack into voting systems, there   were Russian efforts to penetrate voter registration   rolls. He also confirmed that th ’ ’  ’ ”   Comey suggested during the hearing that there was no evidence   supporting Trump’s claim that Obama had wiretapped him. ” ’   ”No individual can direct electronic surveillance of anyone,”   Comey said, adding that ”no president could” unilaterally order a   wiretap of anyone. ’ ’   ”We don’’t have any evidence or information that supports those   tweets,” he said. ’ ’     and intelligence agencies wishing to monitor   signal intelligence they deem relevant to an investigation  —   in   this case, suspected Russian interference in the 2016 election  —     must obtain what is known as a FISA warrant from the Foreign   Intelligence Surveillance Court. ’ ’   Rep. Trey Gowdy, a Republican, asked Comey whether he thought   such warrants were”critical to our national security,” to which   Comey replied affirmatively. Gowdy asked if the ”unauthorized   dissemination” of information about the existence of a FISA   warrant was a felony. Comey replied that it was. ’ ’   ”Has the investigation into the leak of classified information   begun yet?” Gowdy asked Comey. Comey declined to comment, citing   concerns about confirming or denying whether such classified   information exists. ’ ’   It had been unclear whether such a warrant was  operating inside the   US that might have been communicating with Trump aides. But Comey   hinted Monday that the warrant may have been granted, noting in   the hearing that the FBI is ”obsessive” about maintaining   protocol when it comes to FISA warrants, and ”an unauthorized   disclosure of a FISA is an extraordinary event.” ’ ’   ”We are taking it very seriously,” Comey added. ’ ’   Rogers, of the NSA, was pressed about the criteria needed to   obtain a FISA warrant, and what happens when US persons are   caught up in legal surveillance of foreigners on US soil. ’ ’   ”In broad terms,” Rogers replied, when collective information via   surveillance, the NSA assesses whether there is ”criminal   activity” or an imminent threat  —   if there is no intelligence   value, then the information is discarded. ’ ’   Rogers was asked if the FBI is required to cease collecting   incidental communications obtained through lawful surveillance if   the US persons caught up in those incidental communications were   part of an incoming administration. Rogers replied that the NSA   was ”not automatically required” to do so. ’ ”   Trump’s explosive claims of wiretapping caused an international   row last week when press secretary Sean Spicer  that said a   British intelligence agency, the Government Communications   Headquarters, or GCHQ, conspired with Obama to wiretap Trump. ” ’   The comment prompted a   reaction from GCHQ, which   released a rare public statement categorically denying any   involvement and calling the accusation ”utterly ridiculous.” ’ ’   Rogers, of the NSA, denied ever asking the GCHQ for help in this   kind of surveillance. He said on Monday that while the   international upset is ”something we’’ll be able to deal with,”   the accusation ”clearly frustrates a key ally of ours.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Reports have suggested that communications between Trump’s former     adviser, Michael Flynn, and Russia’s ambassador   to the US, Sergey Kislyak, were picked up by US intelligence   officials who had been eavesdropping on Kislyak  —   not on Flynn.   Current and former US officials have also told several media   outlets that they have intercepted communications between   associates of Trump and Russian officials. ” ’   Comey confirmed during the hearing that he views communications   between US persons and Russia differently from communications   between US persons and other countries because Russia ”is a   foreign adversary.”  ’ ’   The House Intelligence Committee has asked the FBI, the CIA, and   the NSA to give them a full list of people whose conversations   may have been picked up in that kind of incidental surveillance.   So far, only the NSA has ”partially” complied, according to The   Washington Post. Neither Comey nor Rogers would comment during   the hearing on the specific people who may or may not have   been caught up in the intelligence community’’s routine   surveillance. ’ ”   In a lengthy opening statement, Schiff invoked the explosive but   unverified dossier written last year by former British spy,   Christopher Steele, detailing the Trump campaign’s alleged   communication with Russian nationals and officials during the   campaign.  ” ”   Kislyak and Flynn  —   along with Trump’s former campaign manager,   Paul Manafort, and an early   adviser, Carter Page  —     were all named in the dossier as complicit in the Russian   meddling. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The dossier was published in full by BuzzFeed in late January   after CNN reported that Comey and other top US intelligence   officials had briefed Trump and President Obama on its contents. ’ ’   Rep. Pete King, a Republican, asked Comey if it was illegal that   the fact that those briefings occurred was leaked to the media. ’ ’   Comey said he could only comment on the fact that leaking   classified information is a very serious matter. ’ ’   ”Often, it doesn’’t come from people who know the secrets. . .. It   is an enormous problem, though, whenever you find information   that is actually classified in the meeting. We don’’t comment on   it because we don’’t want to confirm it,” he said. ’ ’   Flynn was forced to resign in early February after reports   surfaced, based on conversations that were reportedly intercepted   during routine surveillance of Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak,   that Flynn had discussed US sanctions on Russia with Kislyak in   December. Comey refused to comment on why he thought Flynn had   spoken with Kislyak, and what the FBI knew about their phone   calls. ’ ’   Comey was asked if he was aware Flynn ”ever communicated to the   Russian government that the Trump administration in the future”   would rescind US sanctions on Russia. Comey replied that he   couldn’’t comment because he didn’’t want to talk about anything   relating to a US person that may be under investigation. ’ ’FBI Director James Comey confirmed that an. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’