’  ’ ’   Democratic Senator Chris Coons of Delaware released a   statement accusing White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer   of mischaracterizing comments he made earlier this month about   p ’ ’hard   evidence of collusion” between the campaign and the Russians, ”I   think what hard evidence there may be will be discovered either   through a full release of President Trump’’s financial interests   and concerns and taxes, or the intercepts that I believe our   intelligence community and FBI have of conversations between and   among Russian officials.” ’ ’   During a White House press briefing on Monday, however, Spicer   only quoted Coons as saying ”there is no evidence of   collusion.”  ’ ’   Coons wrote that he was ”disappointed” that Spicer ”today   mischaracterized” his comments, adding that ” ’ ’   ”For Mr. Spicer’s sake, let me be clear once again: Though I have   not seen specific evidence of collusion between the Trump   campaign and Russian officials, there is quite a bit of   circumstantial evidence that suggests collusion may have   occurred, including confirmation just this morning that the FBI   is investigating potential collusion between the campaign and   Russian officials,” Coons said. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Coons, in his statement, added that the ”firings of Campaign   Manager Paul Manafort and National Security Advisor General   Michael Flynn over troubling ties to Russia to the President’s   refusal to release his tax returns and his unfounded accusation   that he was ’’wire tapped’’ by President Obama, President Trump and   his team have refused every opportunity to allay concerns of   inappropriate Russian ties. Indeed, they have fostered those   concerns, knowingly or not.”  ’ ’   “Mr. Spicer would do well to quote me accurately and fully in the   future,” Coons wrote. ’ ’   Comey also  ’ ’   ”No individual can direct electronic surveillance of anyone,”   Comey said, adding that ”no president could” unilaterally order a   wiretap of anyone. ’ ’   ”We don’’t have any evidence or information that supports those   tweets,” he said. ’ ’   The White House  that Trump would not withdraw his   allegations. ’ ’Democratic Senator Chris Coons of Delaware. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’