’  ’ ”   It was supposed to be Independent Journal Review’s week to shine. ” ”   The upstart,   news website, which has emerged   as a favorite of President Donald Trump’s administration for its   conservative bent,  to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson as he traveled to   Asia for his first trip there as the nation’s top diplomat. ” ”   Media critics were wary of the Trump administration’s decision to    in favor   of a sole reporter  —   from IJR, no less, a friendly news outlet.   The website had already been scorned for using its newfound White   House access to publish what were seen as glowing pieces about   the new administration. ” ”   The opportunity to shadow Tillerson did little to change that   perception. IJR reporter Erin McPike, who was trailing Tillerson,   was not filing stories from the road during the week. Nor was she   sending   updates to colleagues about the secretary’s   movements. McPike blamed her superiors in a  saying they had told her to focus   solely on a profile piece  —   a decision that was reversed later   under mounting pressure and allowed her to break some news about   his trip and views toward the media. ” ”   Back at home, another firestorm erupted when IJR’s viral editor,   Kyle Becker, published a conspiracy theory about former President   Barack Obama. Without evidence, Becker suggested that perhaps   there was a connection between Obama’s visit to Hawaii and a   ruling by a federal judge there that blocked Trump’s revised   travel ban. ” ”   Reporters took notice and ridiculed the baseless report. IJR’s   congressional reporter, Joe Perticone, . And IJR was forced to retract the   report. ” ’   In an email obtained by Business Insider, Becker apologized to   his colleagues for ”showing a lack of judgment.” However, while   Becker took the fall, he was not the only person to blame, a   person familiar with the matter told Business Insider. ’ ”   IJR’s chief content officer, Benny Johnson, had been warned   earlier that the story about Obama was an unfounded conspiracy   theory, but he assigned it to Becker anyway, this person said. ” ’   Alex Skatell, the founder of IJR, told Business Insider in a   statement that the incident was under investigation. He said   Becker, Johnson, and content editor Becca Lower had been   suspended: ’ ’   In conversations with more than a dozen current and former   employees, most of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity,   several people said the incidents were emblematic of larger   problems at IJR. Current and former staffers said the website,   chasing clicks, had veered sharply to the right in recent months   to feed its conservative base the red meat it desired. ’ ”   Additionally, these sources characterized Johnson, who declined   to comment for this story, as a verbally abusive leader who had   flagrantly violated the website’s ethics guidelines  —   only to be   promoted up the chain. The work environment, they said, has   resulted in a swath of talent recently leaving the website for   work elsewhere. ” ’   IJR was founded in 2013 by Skatell, a former Republican operative     in the field of communications. The website is a   property under an umbrella organization, the Media Group of   America, which also includes IMGE, a Republican consulting firm. ’ ’   From the beginning, IJR has held a key advantage: access to a   large, highly engaged Facebook audience with a keen interest in   politics. ’ ’   Skatell, ahead of the curve years ago, started a string of   Facebook pages aimed at attracting people passionate about   certain subject matters. Perhaps the largest was Conservative   Daily, which quickly amassed followers. (It currently boasts more   than 7 million followers.) ’ ’  ’ ”   IJR used the page as a springboard. In its infancy  —   and still   today  —   the outlet posted its content to its official Facebook   page but relied heavily on Skatell’s Conservative Daily page for   much of its traffic. ” ’   At a time when clickbait reigned on Facebook, IJR found great   success in packaging conservative news stories with sensational   headlines, then posting them to its     Facebook page with a large partisan audience. ’ ”   The strategy catapulted the website past   media   organizations to become a top   news destination. In   January 2015, Disrupter Capital  in Media Group of   America to help fuel the website’s growth. Soon after, Skatell   sought to boost IJR’s credibility as a news organization ahead of   the 2016 election by making a slew of hires. ” ’   First was Johnson, who came aboard in early 2015 as its creative   content director. Michelle Jaconi joined the team a few months   later from CNN, taking the role of executive editor with the aim   of working alongside founding    Bubba Atkinson, to   streamline operations. Justin Green was brought on board from the   Washington Examiner as politics editor, Hunter Schwarz from The   Washington Post as a national political reporter, and Kate   Bennett from Politico as White House correspondent. ’ ’   The young team put a unique spin on its news coverage, and by the   summer of 2015, the site had made a splash in the world of viral   politics partly by filming videos with several presidential   candidates. South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, for instance,    amassing   more than 2 million views. Texas Sen. Ted Cruz  which raked in more   than 1. 5 million views. ’ ’   ”It was a startup atmosphere,” said one former employee. ”At peak   IJR, it was an exciting place to work. It really felt like we   were building something that didn’’t exist. We were experimenting   and trying new things.” ’ ’   The investment in news seemed to slowly pay off in terms of   earning respect from the establishment media class. In February   2016, IJR made a sizable leap into the mainstream, hosting a GOP   primary debate with ABC News. ’ ’   While the website bolstered its news staff and moved to   professionalize operations, it struggled to wean itself from its   partisan roots. Cracks within the newsroom began to emerge. ’ ’   The content team, separate from the news team and mostly made up   of remote writers and bloggers, continued to churn out aggregated   partisan content, aiming to feed what DC staffers, according to   sources, had dubbed ”the redneck army.” IJR’’s most loyal readers,   sources said, weren’’t as interested in serious,       pieces written by the news staff in DC, who   were sometimes referred to by the remote writers as the ”elitist”   members of IJR. ’ ’   ”You kind of have these two sides to it,” one former staffer   said. ”There’’s the public side of who they claim to be: ’’We are a   place where you can experience the news. ’’   …     And then you have   this other side that is a lot more  .” ’ ”   The pressure to package stories in a way more palatable to the   tastes of the website’s conservative audience was even felt by   some members of the news team who in the early days were beholden   to weekly quotas of upwards of 500, 000 clicks, according to two   people. The attitude is a familiar one for many sites focused on   the   hyperpartisan nature of political news, as   they hold their writers to traffic goals and struggle to find a   balance between telling the news and satisfying their audiences. ” ’   ”I felt ashamed of a lot of the stuff that I had to publish   there,” said one former staffer. ”There’’s stuff that I had to   write at IJR that I wouldn’’t want my professors to read. Not   because it was authored in a bad way, but the way we were   covering stories and issues was an embarrassment to political   reporting.” ’ ’   The stories produced by the news team, however, adhered to much   higher standards compared with those from the   team,   sources said. The two sides began to butt heads. ’ ’   ”There kind of came a point where we were like, ’’What are we? ’’”   one person said. ”Are we this   independent news   organization, or are we just feeding the   beast?” ’ ”   In one particularly contentious incident, Bennett, the site’s   White House correspondent, confronted Becker about a post he had   written that contained several questionable tweets about Obama.   Becker cursed and hurled insults at Bennett in response, two   people said. ” ’   ”She was in tears,” one person said. ’ ”   Multiple sources said Atkinson, then the site’s editor in chief,   was the glue that held the two camps together. Commanding the   respect of each side, he had been working to move the content   toward the center, they said. ” ’   ”Bubba was steering it toward more in the middle of the road. Not   this crazy conservative   ” said one person. ”And I think   we were really     close. We almost got there. The clicks  —     the money probably was a deciding factor in why things didn’’t end   up eventually getting there. ’ ’   ”He spent years fighting Alex to try to get this thing in a place   where we were respected,” this person added. ”At the end of the   day, he grew tired. He got to the point to where his quality of   life was not good. He was fighting every day. He just got worn   out.” ’ ”   Atkinson departed IJR for the news website Axios in November,   leaving a power vacuum that eventually led to the outlet’s     roots being emboldened and gaining control, current   and former staffers told Business Insider. ” ’   ”Bubba was sort of the person that kept the normalcy and the   guard up,” one person said. ”Once that happened, people were just   let off their leashes.” ’ ’ ’ ”   Johnson, the    DC internet personality who was    seized power after Atkinson’s departure. He was promoted earlier   this year to his current position, chief content officer. ” ”   But Johnson’s rise inside the company didn’t come without   controversy. Skatell’s move to empower Johnson perplexed IJR   staffers for a host of reasons, many of them said. Staffers said   they had doubts about his ethics, professional behavior,   leadership style, and vision for the website’s editorial   direction. ” ”   One major concern, sources said, was Johnson’s history of   plagiarism. In late 2015, new allegations were leveled against   Johnson by his colleagues, multiple people familiar with the   matter said. ” ’   These people said Johnson’’s colleagues had accused him of   plagiarizing part of an article about Rep. Cathy McMorris   Rodgers. The article cited ”GOP sources” who said she was a   possible candidate to succeed John Boehner as House speaker.   Johnson had lifted a portion of the Washington state   representative’’s biography for the story, the sources said. ’ ”   The content in question was discovered and scrubbed after the   story had been published, a person familiar with the matter said.   A vague editor’s note at the bottom said the story had been   updated. ” ’   The incident was brought to the attention of Atkinson after the   fact, according to a partially redacted screenshot of a Slack   conversation obtained by Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Tell me about Benny’’s plagiarism and why I’’m just now hearing   about it,” Atkinson said in the conversation. ’ ’  ’ ’   One person said the incident was investigated after Atkinson was   alerted, but it was unclear if Johnson ever faced any   disciplinary action. ’ ’   ”You commit the cardinal sin of your craft and you’’re still   allowed to do whatever you want? That’’s a really bad thing,” said   one person familiar with the matter. ’ ”   Johnson’s treatment of staff left his colleagues seething, many   of them told Business Insider. ” ”   Johnson  —   who once compared himself to Walt Disney, two people   said  —   frequently berated the video team over what was   characterized as minuscule details. Multiple sources said Johnson   loudly hurled profanity at team members for small mistakes,   fostering a distressing work environment. The behavior eventually   led to Johnson receiving a formal verbal reprimand from the   company’s   department in February, a person   familiar with the matter said. ” ’   ”He would have these meltdowns when we would push back or when he   didn’’t get the ’’Benny edits. ’’ There was actually a term for it.   We would all prepare ourselves for just an awful day,” one former   staffer said. ”It was all a     ego trip is what it was for   him.” ’ ’   ”He yelled, cried, had meltdowns,” another person said. ”The   whole emotional gamut sort of happened.” ’ ”   Johnson, sources said, also took credit for the successes of the   video team, even if they didn’t necessarily belong to him. In an   email obtained by Business Insider, a member of the video team   complained to Skatell about Johnson taking credit in a press   release for IJR’s series of viral videos with presidential   candidates. The person said Johnson had come up with the idea for   only the video of Cruz cooking bacon on a rifle. ” ’   ”Benny calling himself the mastermind behind these videos is   frankly insulting to the entire video team, past and present,”   the person wrote in the email. ”All of these videos were a team   effort.” ’ ’   The press release was later changed to say that Johnson led the   team but was not the sole person responsible for its success. ’ ”   To many employees, Johnson’s taking credit for the success of the   video team was particularly bothersome because he was rarely seen   in the office. Multiple sources said Johnson took full advantage   of IJR’s unlimited   policy, often not coming in the   office for days at a time. His long absences in part led the   company to implement a new attendance policy, one person said.   Johnson recently received a formal warning for violating it. ” ’   ”I understand that you are ’’crushing content’’ or working on   breaking news, but unless you have spoken with Alex about working   remote and have documented your work location appropriately in   Namely, you are expected to be present in the office,” Jill   Alarcon, director of human resources at IJR, told Johnson in a   March 3 email obtained by Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ”   Other ethical violations, however, seem to have gone unpunished.   For instance, Johnson has taken selfies with politicians and DC   power brokers  —   an apparent violation of IJR’s ethics guide. ” ”   Skatell has pledged to do more to enforce the company’s   standards. ” ”   In early days of the Trump administration, IJR has been defined   by Johnson’s work. Most notably, the   Johnson   scooped the political world and was first to report that Trump   would nominate Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. ” ”   Much of Johnson’s other work has attracted scrutiny. Since the   dawn of the Trump era, he has written several exceedingly   positive pieces about key administration officials. ” ’   According to his accounts, Johnson ”” then wrote a glowing story about the former   Indiana governor’’s visit to the site on the anniversary of the   attack on Pearl Harbor. Johnson was tipped off by a ”” about Trump’’s     plans and crafted a positive story for the president, while the   White House pool reporter had been denied access. And he most   recently  around   the city as he shoveled snow and gave tours at a closed Lincoln   Memorial. ’ ’   ”It’’s essentially the perfect storm for the Trump propaganda   machine,” one former staffer said. ”They need to be more likable    —   and what is IJR better known for other than making   conservatives likable? ’ ’   ”It’’s basically becoming a giant native ad for the Trump   administration,” the person added. ’ ’   With Johnson at the helm of IJR, success at the website seems to   have become largely defined by clicks and access, pushing the   website back toward its partisan upbringing, current and former   staffers said, and leading several members of both the video and   news teams to depart for other opportunities. ’ ”   As a result, the news team’s presence at the company has greatly   diminished. At the time of this story’s publication, only two     members were based in DC: Maegan Vazquez, a deputy news   editor, and McPike, the White House correspondent.   Simultaneously, one person said, the content team has grown. ” ’   ”They say they want news to be the   part of the brand   and what we are proud of, but at the end of the day, they don’’t   see it as a money driver and put it off to the side,” one person   said. ’ ’   Matt Manda, a spokesman for IJR, disputed the assertion the   outlet was not prioritizing news, saying in an email that hiring   ”quality people” takes time. ’ ’   ”Overall we’’ve grown our team in the last year and will be   announcing more hires in the weeks to come,” Manda said. ’ ”   But the flurry of positive stories about the Trump administration   hasn’t gone unnoticed among Johnson’s peers in the media. In one   instance, Hunter Walker, the White House correspondent for Yahoo   News who formerly worked at Business Insider,  of Johnson’s story on   Trump’s dinner. ” ’   Johnson did not take to Walker’’s commentary kindly. He wrote the   Yahoo News reporter, telling him to ”get   ” according to an   email obtained by Business Insider. ’ ’   Walker stood by his remarks, even complimenting Johnson for the   ”good work” he does. He then asked to ”make peace over a   whiskey.” ’ ’   ”I’’ll make peace when you delete and apologize for a tweet where   you blatantly accuse me of colluding with the administration,”   Johnson replied. ”Your completely unfounded assumptions are an   insult to me and my byline.” ’ ”   After another exchange, Walker again asked to settle the dispute   over a drink, but Johnson wasn’t having it. ” ’   ”No bro, you’’re     wrong here,” he wrote. ”What you did was   irresponsible and disrespectful.” ’ ’   ”Disrespectful would be speaking to you the way you have at me,   cursing, flinging insults, and attempting to go complain to my   boss,” Walker said. ”I made some criticism of your story. Let’’s   be grown ups.” ’ ’   ”You picked this fight, I can finish it,” Johnson said. ’ ’   ”You can finish it without me,” Walker replied. ”Have a good   night.” ’ ”   In a statement, Manda said Johnson’s behavior was not   appropriate. However, he took issue with Walker’s tweet. ” ’   ”Neither the response nor falsely accusing us of being propaganda   for the Trump administration is appropriate,” he wrote in an   email. ”The referenced scoop did not come from the Trump   administration, and what the accuser stated was incorrect and   inappropriate as well. Baselessly accusing us of being a plant   for the Trump administration is false and not okay.” ’ ”   The war for the soul of IJR, current and former staffers   suggested, seems to be all but over. To them, the previous week’s   events have proved that the website no longer has the   infrastructure to handle serious stories or prevent questionable   reports from being published. ” ’   ”It kind of had two conflicting editorial priorities, and I think   we are this point where one has clearly won out over the other,”   a former staffer said. ’ ’   One hurdle the outlet will have to overcome, former staffers   said, is persuading those who want to do quality journalism to   work at the website  —   a task that may not be easy. ’ ’   ”I don’’t see how they can convince any real journalist to come   aboard without offering exorbitant amounts of money,” a former   employee said. ’ ’   Jason Howerton, deputy editor at IJR, said ”all news outlets make   mistakes” and that what was important was ”how you respond to   those mistakes.” ’ ’   ”Alex Skatell took full accountability, owned up to it and took   steps to prevent it from happening again. That’’s what a real   leader does,” Howerton said in an emailed statement. ”That was   very reassuring and important to me. We’’re not perfect. We’’re a   very young company. But I can genuinely say this team is working   tirelessly to get a little better every day. We don’’t just want   to win, we want to win in the right way.” ’ ’   Nevertheless, in a Facebook post on Sunday, Skatell seemed to   acknowledge the road ahead would be difficult. ’ ’   ”It’’s been a tough week,” he wrote. ’ ’   The    chief executive seemed drained after a week spent   helping his team muscle through two major controversies. But he   also wrote with a sense of determination. ’ ’   ”I literally had no clue what I was doing when I started IJR but   here we are over 4 years later and through all the mistakes and   missteps hopefully learning and getting better each and every   day,” Skatell wrote. ”Building a media company is really hard, I   try my best in balancing all the pressures but don’’t always get   it right. ’ ’   ”I’’m proud of anyone past or present that has taken a chance on   us and supports us today,” the IJR founder concluded. ”I hope   over the next 4 years and beyond I can continue to have that   chance to fail with some wacky ideas and maybe solve some things   along the way.” ’ ” Editor’s note: This story was updated to include comment from   Jason Howerton, who emailed after publication. (Full disclosure:   This author worked with Howerton at a former job.) ” ’It was supposed to be Independent Journal. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’