’  ’ ’   Exxon Mobil lost up to a year’’s worth of emails sent by former   CEO and current Secretary of State Rex Tillerson under the   pseudonym ”Wayne Tracker,” court documents show. ’ ’   Exxon is under investigation by New York State Attorney General   Eric T. Schneiderman for allegedly misleading shareholders and   investors about   issues related to climate change. ’ ’   Tillerson used the Wayne Tracker alias to  about ”    issues related to climate change.” Tillerson  —   whose middle name   is Wayne  —   allegedly used the alias for a period of seven years,   between 2008 and 2015, according to Schneiderman’’s office. ’ ’   Attorneys for Exxon wrote a letter to the court on Tuesday  —     highlighted by   —   describing how the emails were lost.   Assistant State Attorney General John Oleske called the letter a   ”bombshell,” in a court hearing on Wednesday, alleging that Exxon   . ’ ’   The letter describes how Tillerson’’s ”Wayne Tracker” emails were   exempted from a ”file sweep” that protects personal emails on   Exxon’’s server from automatic deletion. The emails, ranging from   September 5, 2014 to September 16, 2015, were classified by   Exxon’’s system as   and were wiped. ’ ’   A secondary search, with broader terms, turned up some of the   missing ”Wayne Tracker” emails, though none from September 5,   2014 to November 28, 2014. ’ ’   ”Tillerson was the only custodian who used a secondary account,   and ExxonMobil is aware of no email account, other than the Wayne   Tracker account, for which this issue has arisen,” the letter   reads. ’ ’  ’ ’   In the Wednesday court hearing, Exxon was ordered by Justice   Barry Ostrager to produce all relevant management documents by   March 31. ’ ”   Exxon was further ordered by the court to produce sworn   affidavits by April 10 regarding everything the company’s lawyers   have done to produce the management documents, as well as all the   information they know about what was lost. They must also swear   that they have produced everything owed to the attorney general’s   office under the original subpoena. ” ’   ”16 months after our initial subpoena, Exxon was ordered by the   court to finally produce all documents from its management   committee, and to provide clear answers to the AG’s office about   any documents  —   including those from alias accounts  —   that were   lost,”Amy Spitalnick, the press secretary for the New York   attorney general, told Business Insider. ’ ”   Exxon was ordered to meet with the attorney general’s office to   figure out what can be done to recover the lost emails. ” ’ Exxon was not immediately available for comment. ’ ”Exxon Mobil lost up to a year’s worth of emails. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’