Whether or not you eat what McDonald’s serves, let’s at least agree the   giant has a knack for putting together unexpected ingredients in a way that no one had seen before. The same could be said about “The Founder,” the biographical film about Ray A. Kroc (played by Michael Keaton) the onetime   salesman who helped transform McDonald’s from a roadside stand in San Bernardino, Calif. to an empire of golden arches. The movie (in wide release Jan. 20) also stars Nick Offerman and John Carroll Lynch as Richard and Maurice McDonald, the brothers (known as Dick and Mac) who created the namesake restaurants and invented the   system, then entered into an uneasy partnership with Kroc, who took over the company. If Kroc is the    engine of “The Founder,” then the McDonald brothers are its heart  —   the loyal siblings whose ingenuity and traditional values are eventually overwhelmed by their new partner’s relentless hustle. The characters also represent a rare pairing for Mr. Offerman (a star of “Parks and Recreation”) and Mr. Lynch (whose films include “Fargo,” “Zodiac” and “Jackie”) two steadily working, sturdily built actors known for quirky, distinctive roles  —   outdoorsmen, lawyers, presidents, mass murderers  —   that stick in your memory, yet who had never acted together before. Mr. Offerman and Mr. Lynch spoke recently by phone about family relationships, onscreen and off, and shared their innermost thoughts about the McDonald’s menu. These are edited excerpts from the conversation. You each own a very particular piece of turf in your individual careers. Did you ever cross paths in the industry before? NICK OFFERMAN Thank you for accusing us of offering unique and individual work. JOHN CARROLL LYNCH Or having a place in this industry. I think we met the night before we started working. OFFERMAN There had been a couple of indie movies where I almost got cast in a thing or two that you were working in. And then they found out I had not worked at the Guthrie [Theater] and they moved on. LYNCH You’ll be happy to know that I read for Ron Swanson [on “Parks and Recreation”]. I don’t think we ever talked about that. OFFERMAN Oh no! LYNCH Absolutely. Yes, that’s true. I read for Ron Swanson, and they wisely chose Nick. OFFERMAN It must have been a height issue  —   that’s the only thing I can think of. Was there any time to develop your familial bond before you started playing the brothers? LYNCH We had one day of rehearsal. There were a couple of things that Nick and I were given for biographical background. There were recordings of Dick [McDonald]  —   Dictaphone audio memos to the company, to listen to his voice and the way he regarded his brother. I remember hearing such great love and esteem in his voice. Also, the first day of our shoot was the day they tell the story of their long rise to success. It was a lot of fun and set the groundwork for the remainder of the work. OFFERMAN In the scene he’s talking about, John had several minutes of exposition monologue that was the first thing we shot in this restaurant with Michael Keaton. John rattled the entire piece with enthusiasm and absolute vim and vigor. He finished the take, and everybody’s jaw dropped, and Keaton was like, “Well. All right. Moving on. ” Did you ever work in the   industry? LYNCH I never worked at McDonald’s, but I worked at Burger King for a couple of minutes. I was at a waiter at a pub near the Catholic University of America, where I went to college. I waited on Ed Herrmann [the actor] once. I screwed up his order. He didn’t want the ribs. I also worked at the Boston Sea Party, in Denver [where he was raised] shucking oysters. I’d never seen an oyster, let alone knew how to shuck one. After a series of   shifts, I was like, I’ve got to get a job at   just to heal my hands. OFFERMAN When I’d just gotten my driver’s license, a friend of mine was a manager at a Hardee’s in Joliet. And I wanted to buy a used car for about $1, 500. So I started working some shifts for her, flipping burgers. And I had just about amassed the sum that I desired, when I got in a vehicular disagreement with an older lady at an intersection, the long and the short of which is, I was at fault, and it cost me $1, 500. I took that as a lesson that a career in   was not for me. What role did McDonald’s play in your lives growing up? OFFERMAN When I was a kid, we’d go to swimming lessons on Saturday, in the other big town, Morris, Ill. and as a reward for not perishing, we would be taken to McDonald’s, where we were allowed to purchase a    sandwich. That was the filet mignon of my youth. More important, we were crazy about the packaging, because all of our “Star Wars” action figures fit neatly in the hash browns’ cardboard sleeve, and you could make all kinds of vehicles out of those clamshell boxes. LYNCH I had a McDonald’s at the end of my paper route when I was a kid. I was young enough [that] my mother would say, “What kind of Coke would you like?” And I would say, “Orange. ” Because all sodas were Coke. Over the course of my childhood, it stopped being just hamburgers and cheeseburgers, and they introduced things like the    and the Big Mac. I remember when the Big Mac came out. It was a big deal for me. OFFERMAN I forgot about that  —   in my youth, when they would release a new sandwich like the Big Mac, it was like the new iPhone. LYNCH There were certainly times when there would be as much discussion in my elementary school class as anybody standing at an Apple store today. OFFERMAN “Let me get this straight: There’s a bun in the middle of the other bun? Get out of here. ” Isn’t that a special piece of bread? LYNCH I like the fact that you call it special. I would call it utterly useless, other than for its stated purpose, which is to have enough special sauce on it to literally cause a heart attack. OFFERMAN It’s a propagandist’s master stroke. It literally says, this sandwich is so monumental, we had to add an extra level of bread. LYNCH It becomes a   sandwich. Before, they just had   sandwiches. Then, there were two. Having now played these characters, can you ever look at McDonald’s or fast food the same way again? LYNCH I see how the McDonald brothers transformed, for good or for ill, how America eats  —   and frankly how the world eats. It was in some ways more transforming to our bodies than the Model A. I think that’s both a triumph and a bit chilling. That transforms American capitalism from personal success based on hard work and quality of work, to inventive, dominant business models. When the McDonald brothers were developing the way to get you your sandwich in 30 seconds and not 30 minutes, they didn’t foresee that it would take the place of the family dinner every day. It has ramifications around my own midsection that I didn’t see coming. OFFERMAN I’m a big fan of the writing of people like Eric Schlosser and Michael Pollan. So I was very much on board with the exposing of this worldwide   system, in which we’re pretty much all complicit. It’s emblematic of how we’ve grown disconnected [from] where our food comes from, who makes and grows our food. It’s all related. It allows us to elect people to office that perhaps don’t have the healthiest ingredients. Perhaps they have an extra bun that is inexplicable. Is it difficult, after playing such close brothers, to part company and go your separate ways?  OFFERMAN Every acting job is sort of like a family reunion. Sometimes you work with an actor and you think, oh, yes, you are one of the drunks in the family. Or you’re passive aggressive. Or you’re just crazy. You make a mental note at future family reunions to steer clear of that one. But then there are family members where you say, oh, we’ve got something similar. We’re terrific on the volleyball court together. So every time there’s a rumor of volleyball happening, I’m going to hope that John Carroll Lynch shows up. And I will do my best to set up his sweet spike move. LYNCH There was an opportunity that Nick and I might work together again. That became not possible,  . I know I will look for another opportunity at any time to work with him. OFFERMAN I don’t feel the same. LYNCH That’s why I’m just going to chase you, man. It’s just going to be a stalker situation. I’ve got my   goggles. I’m sitting on a tree, right now, just waiting for darkness.