’  ’ ”   A former top lawyer for the CIA, NSA, and Department of Defense   expressed shock in an interview with Business Insider that House   Intelligence Chair Devin Nunes went to the White House Wednesday   to share information with President Donald Trump  —   going at a   time when Nunes’ panel is looking into Russian interference in   the 2016 election. ” ’   Robert Deitz, who held those posts in President Bill Clinton’’s   and President George W. Bush’’s administrations, said Nunes’’   Wednesday trip to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue was ”unbelievable.” ’ ’   ”What the hell is Nunes doing at the White House?” Deitz,   currently a professor at George Mason University, said. ”The idea   that a person working in a committee that down the road at least   is supposed to be looking into Russian influence in US elections   . .. would go racing to the White House  —   and to do what? Get his   tummy rubbed? I just find unbelievable.” ’ ’   ”More over, he could well be disclosing information that is of   course highly classified  —   of course, not that Mr. Trump doesn’’t   have the proper classifications, by definition he does  —   but, you   just don’’t pass that information on willy nilly,” he continued.   ”So I don’’t get that scene at all.” ’ ’   Nunes, a California Republican,  when he claimed to   a press gathering that the intelligence community had   ”incidentally collected” information on the Trump transition team   during the transition period. He went on to say the collection   occurred on ”numerous occasions” and was not related to the FBI’’s   investigation into Russian meddling in last year’’s presidential   election. ’ ’   ”Details about US persons associated with the incoming   administration, details with little or no apparent foreign   intelligence value, were widely disseminated in intelligence   community reporting,” Nunes said, adding the information he spoke   of was collected legally, in his view, under the Foreign   Intelligence Surveillance Act. ’ ’   The Trump administration was not aware of what he was describing   to the press at that point, so he then went to the White House   immediately following the press briefing to discuss his findings,   which many observers found odd. ’ ”   A member of Trump’s transition team, Nunes finds himself    investigation into Russia’s effort to manipulate the 2016 US   presidential election. It was  in front of Nunes’   committee that FBI Director James Comey  that the bureau had been   investigating potential ties between the Trump campaign and the   Russian government since late July. Comey also said the FBI and   the Department of Justice could provide no evidence to back up   Trump’s explosive Twitter claim that President Barack Obama   wiretapped him, an item that Nunes insisted Wednesday his new   revelations did not prove. ” ’  ’ ’   Following his meeting at the White House, Nunes told the press he   found nothing wrong with briefing the president on information   that could be related to an ongoing investigation into members of   his administration and campaign team. ’ ’   ”Because what I saw had nothing to do with Russia and the Russian   investigation,” Nunes said. ”It has everything to do with   possible surveillance activities, and the president needs to know   these intelligence reports are out there, and I have a duty to   tell him that.” ’ ”   Nunes hadn’t shared the information he was discussing publicly   and with the White House with his fellow intelligence committee   members. The ranking Democrat on the Committee, Adam Schiff,   blasted him in an early Wednesday evening press conference,   saying Nunes’ moves compromised the independence of the   investigation they were attempting to conduct. ” ’   Thursday, Rep. Jackie Speier, a California Democrat on the   committee,  apologized at their   Thursday meeting. ’ ’   Speaking to reporters Thursday, Nunes said it was a ”judgment   call” to deliver the information to the president. He later    differently if he   had a second chance. ’ ’   ”There was a lot going on yesterday,” . ”It was a judgment call on my part.   Sometimes you make the right decision, and sometimes you make the   wrong decision, but you’ve got to stick by the decisions you   make.” ’ ’   Late Thursday, in a reversal,  that the   congressman does not know ”for sure” whether Trump or members of   the transition team were caught up in the communications he cited   Wednesday. ’ ’   Deitz told Business Insider that he doesn’’t think the episode   will lead to something such as Nunes having his intelligence   clearances revoked. But, as Deitz put it, intelligence officials   may be ”less than wholly forthcoming about information” they   share. ’ ’   ”Once Mr. Nunes does something like this, people in the intel   community might be reluctant to, for example, share the true   crown jewels,” he said. ’ ’   Following his meeting with Nunes, Trump told reporters he felt   ”somewhat” vindicated by Nunes’’ revelations, as the president has   spent the better part of March defending his earlier claim that   Trump Tower was wiretapped by Obama. He’’s backed away from the   claim slightly, saying that wiretapping meant more broad   surveillance, but he has not distanced himself from the original   claim, which was rebuked by many across the political spectrum. ’ ’   Deitz said the revelation was ”far from a vindication.” ’ ’   ”In some ways it’’s almost the reverse,” he said. ”That is, if,   and let’’s assume for a moment that someone getting [intelligence]   collection from overseas [and] is getting a Trump person on the   other line. It can be totally innocent. On the other hand, it   could completely validate the notion that Trump people are   talking to Russians.” ’ ’   ”So I don’’t get the partial vindication argument at all,” he   said. ”To me, it raises more questions than it resolves.” ’ ’   He added that ”nobody” had claimed that members of Trump’’s circle   hadn’’t been captured on such surveillance before, naming Michael   Flynn, the ousted national security adviser, specifically. ’ ’   ”And so why it’’s somehow ’’good news’’ for Mr. Trump that some of   his people have been captured in collection,” he said. ”I don’’t   see how that is ever good news.” ’ ’A former top lawyer for the CIA, NSA, and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’