’  ’ ”   Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, is   under fire amid new reports that he secretly worked to advance   Russian interests for years before he joined Trump’s presidential   campaign last April. ” ”   Manafort’s ties to foreign oligarchs and dictators have raised   questions for decades, but his work for the Trump campaign likely   has him under FBI investigation. ” ’   Manafort was born in 1949 and raised in New Britain, Connecticut,   a majority Democratic town where his father served three terms as   a popular Republican mayor. ’ ’   Like Trump, Manafort comes from a   family. Alongside   his political work, his father also ran the family construction   company, Manafort Brothers Inc. founded by his Italian immigrant   father. ’ ’   Instead of taking over the family business, Manafort decided to   pursue his interest in politics and moved to Washington, DC,   where he earned both an undergraduate business degree and a law   degree at Georgetown University. ’ ’’ ’   While working at a private law firm two years after graduating   from law school, Manafort began advising Republican president   . Since the 1970s, he has   established deep and sometimes murky, connections in Washington   and around the world, serving as political lobbyist, adviser, and   an international political consultant for leaders around the   world, including dictators Mobutu Sese Seko of the Democratic   Republic of Congo and Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines. ’ ”   Manafort’s international work has long raised eyebrows among   Democrats in Washington. In 2004, he became a top adviser to   Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, a   strongman   whom Manafort is widely credited with helping win the presidency   in 2010. ” ’   Yanukovych was ousted in 2014 after widespread demonstrations   again this decision to back out of a deal with the EU that would   have distanced Ukraine from Russia and fostered closer ties with   the West. On February 20, 2014, Ukrainian riot police opened fire   on thousands of demonstrators who had gathered in central Kiev.     protesters were killed that day, and dozens more over   the next few days. ’ ”   Ukrainian prosecutors have said Yanukovych ordered the security   forces’ attack on protesters, and at least one     lawyer representing the victims is  if any, Manafort played in   encouraging Yanukovych’s crackdown. Yanukovych fled to Russia   amid the protests and is now living under the protection of the   Kremlin. ” ’   In March 2016, Trump hired Manafort to manage the Republican   National Convention and wrangle delegates into supporting Trump.   Manafort  convincing delegates to support Gerald Ford in   1976  —   the last time the Republican Party began a convention   without having selected its presidential nominee. ’ ”   In May 2016, Manafort was promoted to the position of campaign   chairman and chief strategist. He became the campaign’s de facto   manager after Trump fired Corey Lewandowski . Manafort served in this senior role until   August 2016, when he resigned over reports about his legally   questionable work mixing politics and business in Ukraine. ” ”   The New York Times, citing ledgers uncovered by an anticorruption   center in Kiev, reported on August 16 that $12. 7 million in   undisclosed cash payments from Yanukovych’s   Party of   Regions had been earmarked for Manafort for his work with the   party from 2007 to 2012. ” ”   According to  Trump’s family was also unhappy with    that many saw   as   and in which they believed Manafort played a role. ” ’   On March 22, the Associated Press  $10 million   between 2006 and 2009 to lobby on behalf of Russian billionaire   Oleg Deripaska, a close Putin ally, using a strategic ”model”   that would ”greatly benefit the Putin Government if employed at   the correct levels with the appropriate commitment to success.” ’ ’   AP reporter Jeff Horwitz  that Manafort was ”a gun for hire” who was   willing to work explicitly ”on behalf of Russian interests.” ’ ’   Manafort’’s name  to Deripaska’’s before the AP reported on   their lucrative contract. The two were involved in a partnership   that went south, and wound up with Deripaska accusing Manafort of   ”disappearing” with nearly $19 million intended for investments.   Deripaska filed a lawsuit against Manafort in the Cayman Islands   in 2014, and was still trying to get his money back in August   2015, . ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer  that Trump had been aware that Manafort   had lobbied on behalf of Deripaska. ’ ”   On top of this, Ukrainian member of parliament  of accepting nearly $1 million from   Ukraine’s   Party of Regions, and then laundering it   through a company that claims to sell computers.  also want to question Manafort about what   role he played, if any, in the 2014 police killings of protesters   in Kiev. ” ”   In another bizarre twist, late last month,  Manafort’s daughter’s iPhone and published   four years’ worth of purported text messages  —   roughly 300, 000   messages  —   on the dark web. ” ’   In a series of texts reviewed by Business Insider that appear to   have been sent by Andrea to her sister, Jessica, in March 2015,   Andrea said their father had ”no moral or legal compass.” ’ ’   ”Don’’t fool yourself,” Andrea wrote to her sister, according to   the texts. ”That money we have is blood money.” ’ ’   ”You know he has killed people in Ukraine? Knowingly,” she   continued, according to the reviewed texts. ”As a tactic to   outrage the world and get focus on Ukraine. Remember when there   were all those deaths taking place. A while back. About a year   ago. Revolts and what not. Do you know whose strategy that was to   cause that, to send those people out and get them slaughtered.” ’ ’   In another text to her cousin, who was also her father’’s business   partner, Andrea called Manafort ”a sick     tyrant.” ’ ’   Manafort and Trump have been connected  when Trump hired Manafort’’s lobbying firm to   help the Trump Organization. Trump became close with Manafort’’s   business partner at the time, Roger Stone, a     ”” who served as an early adviser to Trump’’s   presidential campaign. ’ ’   Earlier this month,  he had exchanged private messages on Twitter with   a hacker implicated in a massive cyberattack that targeted the   Democratic National Committee during the 2016 election. ’ ”   In 2006, Manafort and his wife  which Manafort still owns and   resides in when he’s in Manhattan. ” ’   Manafort has denied all the allegations against him. In February,    he had ”never knowingly spoken to Russian   intelligence officers, and I have never been involved with   anything to do with the Russian government or the Putin   administration.” ’ ’   The White House appears to be creating as much distance between   Manafort and the Trump campaign as possible. On Monday, Spicer   told reporters that Manafort ”played a very limited role for a   very limited amount of time” in the campaign, despite having   spent five months on the campaign and nearly three of those   months as the chairman. ’ ”   Others close to Trump have made opposing claims about Manafort’s   influence. ” ’   ”We couldn’’t be more happy with the work that he’’s doing, the way   he’’s tackling these things, the way he’’s handling the   organization of everything going forward,” Donald Trump Jr.    last July. ’ ’   In August, former House Speaker and Trump loyalist Newt Gingrich    Sean Hannity that ”nobody should underestimate how   much Paul Manafort did to get this campaign to where it is right   now.” ’ ”   The revelations about Manafort’s work with a Russian oligarch   come amid reports that the FBI  that Trump campaign associates   colluded with Russia during the presidential election to   undermine Hillary Clinton. ” ’   During a hearing before Congress on Monday, FBI Director James   Comey  for the first time that the bureau was   conducting a counterintelligence investigation that included an   examination of whether Trump associates worked with Russian   officials to influence the election. ’ ”   Comey declined to say whether Manafort was under investigation,   but it has  that he and Roger Stone are both . Trump’s former     adviser and top campaign surrogate, Michael Flynn, is also   reportedly under FBI investigation. Flynn was paid $35, 000 to   speak at a gala celebrating   news agency  in   December 2015. A few months earlier, he was  to speak at an event hosted by Russia’s top   cybersecurity firm, Kasperky Lab. ” ’   In response to the AP’’s latest report about Manafort’’s dealings   with Deripaska, House Intelligence Committee member  the   investigation   is no longer a ”drip, drip, drip. This is now   with   water flushing out with all kinds of entanglements.” ’ ”Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’