’  ’ ’   I  that Republicans forced themselves into a   corner with seven years of lying and overpromising about   healthcare. The fact that nothing they do now will live up to the   promises they made before is a big political problem. ’ ”   That’s on the whole party. ” ’   But the specific failure to pass the American Health   Care Act  —   the option Republican leaders had decided was the     way to deal with their healthcare predicament  —   is on   President Donald Trump. ’ ”   Specifically, the bill can’t pass because Trump is a bad   dealmaker. We have a president who cannot close. Sad! ” ’   I realize Trump and his fans would object to this   characterization. How could I malign the dealmaking skill of the   author of ”The Art of the Deal”? ’ ’   Let us count the ways that Trump’’s dealmaking deficits have   derailed the bill he said was ”terrific.” ’ ”   Trump’s public comments about the healthcare bill gave individual   Republicans in Congress two pieces of information that reduced   their incentive to compromise with him about the bill’s contents: ” ”   You don’t walk into a negotiation and tell your counterparty that   you’re desperate to make a deal fast and on any terms. But Trump   did just that, which is why Freedom Caucus members knew the White   House was bluffing when it claimed the bill was closed and   wouldn’t be amended further. ” ’   Trump invited the Freedom Caucus to squeeze him dry. Weak! Bad! ’ ”   Trump eventually seemed to realize this error, claiming if no   bill passed by Friday, he wouldn’t participate in future efforts   to repeal Obamacare. ” ’   But that threat was implausible because of his prior admissions.   He should have read his own book: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t“The worst thing you can possibly do in a deal is seem desperate to make it. ”  —   The Art of The Deal. ’t’t’ ”   Usually, a legislative negotiation isn’t just about what’s in a   bill. ” ”   Often, a member of Congress agrees to vote for the president’s   pet piece of legislation, and the president promises to advance   the member’s favorite regulatory initiative, or to advocate   another piece of legislation later, or to campaign for that   member’s reelection. ” ”   Trump might be making such promises. But because he has a     reputation for reneging on his promises to   counterparties, members are unlikely to trust Trump when he does   so. This limits his negotiating toolbox; because Trump can’t be   trusted, his promises have to be made good in the bill text   itself. ” ”   Trump’s assurance that the bill’s limitations  —   for example, its   limited impact on insurance regulations under Obamacare  —   will be   addressed through executive action and future legislation do not   seem to be convincing enough of his party’s own representatives   to get this bill passed. ” ’   In a way, this is similar to the way Trump alienated mainstream   banks with his reputation for not repaying debts, forcing him to   seek increasingly creative means of financing his businesses.   Screwing your partner in one deal makes it harder to get the next   deal done. ’ ”   There is an exception that proves the rule that side deals don’t   work for Trump. ” ’   One of the ”no” votes who did flip to ”yes” on the AHCA is Rep.   Lou Barletta of Pennsylvania. Barletta’’s signature issue is   illegal immigration (he’’s opposed) and he said he couldn’’t vote   for the AHCA because he didn’’t have sufficient assurance that   unauthorized immigrants wouldn’’t get insurance tax credits.   Barletta changed his position once he was promised Trump would   support his legislation to address the issue. ’ ’   Trump can credibly promise to take punitive action   toward unauthorized immigrants, because that is a passion of his.   Beyond that, his lack of credibility is undermining his   negotiating position. ’ ’   ”Nobody knew healthcare could be so complicated,” Trump declared   in February. ’ ’   Actually, a lot of people did know that, but Trump seems to have   been personally unprepared for the interconnected nature of   healthcare policy. Moving the wrong piece can cause the   healthcare market to crash down like a Jenga tower, and Trump has   no idea how to determine which blocks are loose. ’ ’   This is how the White House apparently ended up offering Freedom   Caucus members the repeal of   essential health benefits   from Obamacare as part of a   effort to win their votes. ’ ’   This policy change  —   which would allow insurers to sell health   plans that don’’t cover pregnancy, or even plans that don’’t cover   doctor’’s visits at all  —   moves the bill to the ”right” and looks   at first glance like something that should help conservative   members of the House Republican conference get on board. ’ ’   But  repealing the EHB rules while   leaving other Obamacare rules in place would create a huge mess   in   markets that doesn’’t appeal to anyone. Rep.   Justin Amash, one of the sharpest critics of Obamacare’’s   healthcare regulations in the House,  by itself ”makes the   bill worse, not better.” ’ ”   By making the EHB offer, Trump scared away moderates like Reps.   Charlie Dent and Rodney Frelinghuysen, but he did not pick up the   votes of many Freedom Caucus members who pointed out (not   unreasonably) that if you’re going to repeal EHB, you also need   to repeal Obamacare’s rule that requires insurers to cover   preexisting conditions, as otherwise insurance markets could   collapse. ” ”   If Trump understood   policy (or asked someone who   did) he would have known that EHB rules and     rules go together like peas and carrots,   and he shouldn’t offer to repeal one if he’s dead set on keeping   the other. ” ”   But he didn’t, so he offered something that made the deal all   that much harder to close. ” ’   Trump is a highly successful businessman. But he is not, as he   claims, a highly successful dealmaker. ’ ’   Trump is an incredibly talented, natural marketer. He was very   good at convincing people they should want to buy Trump   apartments, reasonably good at convincing people they should want   to golf at Trump golf clubs, and for a time quite successful at   getting people to want to watch Trump fire people on television. ’ ’   Trump innately understands certain kinds of consumers, and he   understood things about the electorate that none of his opponents   in the 2016 election did. There are reasons he won an election   that nobody believed he could. ’ ”   He wasn’t very good at convincing people they should want to buy   Trump Steaks, but then, nobody bats a thousand. ” ”   We know from what we’ve seen of Trump’s tax returns that he lost   a great deal of money in the 1990s and that he was making a great   deal of money by the  . Not coincidentally, over this   period Trump shifted the focus of his professional endeavors away   from businesses that were heavy on dealmaking and toward   businesses that were heavy on marketing, particularly   arrangements in which he would rent his name to somebody else who   was actually in the business of developing real estate. ” ’   Unfortunately, unlike the general endeavor of being a ”famous,   rich business guy,” there is no way to adjust the presidency, so   it’’s heavier on the marketing aspects and lighter on the   dealmaking aspects. ’ ”   It’s a president’s job to make deals. And Trump’s lack of talent   for dealmaking is going to be a major liability for him in   office. ” ’I wrote on Wednesday that Republicans forced. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’