’  ’ ’   The White House denied reports on Sunday that President Trump   gave German Chancellor Angela Merkel a $374 billion invoice for   money her country owed the US for NATO defense. ’ ’   The Times of London  a story citing anonymous German officials who   claimed Trump gave Merkel the bill during their meeting in   Washington last week. ’ ’   ”No, this is not true,” White House press secretary Sean   Spicer said when Business Insider reached out to the White   House for comment. ’ ’   The Times reported that one German minister said the alleged   exchange was ”outrageous” and that ”the concept behind putting   out such demands is to intimidate the other side, but the   chancellor took it calmly and will not respond to such   provocations.” ’ ’       ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDespite what you have heard from the FAKE NEWS, I had a GREAT meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes. .... ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t. ..vast sums of money to NATO & the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany! ’t’t’ ’   Trump has called NATO ”obsolete” and long criticized allies for   not contributing to defense spending and fighting terrorism,   though NATO experts have countered that claim. ’ ’   ”After   NATO’’s main vocation became fighting terrorism in   Afghanistan,” Alexander Vershbow, the former deputy secretary   general of NATO,  in January. ”It is now heavily   engaged in training the militaries of many Middle Eastern   countries to help them fight terrorism in their own backyard.” ’ ”   That sentiment was echoed by Trump’s own defense secretary,   retired Marine general James Mattis, in his testimony before   Congress during his confirmation hearing. Mattis  that NATO was essential   to American safety and national security. ” ’   In its report claiming that Trump gave Merkel an invoice for NATO   spending, the Times of London said the White House had arrived at   the final figure of $374 billion by starting at 2002 and   calculating ”the extent to which German defense spending had   fallen short of the 2% target each year, [adding] the amount   together  —   and then [putting] interest on top.” ’ ’   A source close to Merkel who was cited by the Times was   characterized as being ”dismissive” of the alleged bill. ’ ’   ”The president has a very unorthodox view on NATO defense   spending,” the source said. ”The alliance is not a club with a   membership fee. The commitments relate to countries’’ investment   in their defense budgets.” ’ ’   The report claims that Merkel ignored the ”provocation.” The   German chancellor has committed, however, to higher defense   spending by Germany. ’ ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. ’ ’The White House denied reports on Sunday that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’