’  ’ ’   North Carolina voted to repeal its ”bathroom law” on Thursday in   a compromise that saw bipartisan support but angered LGBT   advocates who say the deal doesn’’t go far enough to stop   discrimination. ’ ”   The new bill, engineered by North Carolina’s Republican   leadership and supported by Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper, passed by   32 to 16 in the state Senate and 70 to 48 in the state House.   Cooper announced in a   press conference that he   had signed it into law. ” ’   It erases the law known as HB2, which curbed legal protections   for LGBT people and barred transgender people from using the   public bathroom that aligns with their gender identity. ’ ’ of the repeal, however, prompted objections   from some Democratic lawmakers  —   one that leaves all matters   related to bathroom regulation to the state and another that   prevents local governments from enacting certain LGBT protections   until the end of 2020. ’ ’   ”It’’s not a perfect deal, but it repeals House Bill 2 and begins   to repair our reputation,” Cooper said Wednesday night. ’ ’   But Cooper came under fire from   groups and some   Democrats, who have maintained that anything less than a full   repeal of HB2 with no strings attached amounts to     discrimination. ’ ’   ”This new law does not repeal HB2,” Chad Griffin, the president   of the Human Rights Campaign, said in a statement Thursday before   Cooper signed the bill. ’ ’   ”Instead, it institutes a statewide prohibition on equality by   banning nondiscrimination protections across North Carolina and   fuels the flames of antitransgender hate,” he added. ”Each and   every lawmaker who supported this bill has betrayed the LGBTQ   community.” ’ ’   The American Civil Liberties Union had also urged Cooper to veto   the bill earlier Thursday. ’ ’   ”Rather than ending the discrimination endured by LGBT North   Carolinians for the last year as a result of HB2, this bill   preserves it,” the ACLU’’s policy director, Sarah Gillooly,   . ”In so doing, it marginalizes and   stigmatizes an already incredibly vulnerable population, and   perpetuates a harmful myth that transgender individuals are to be   feared rather than accepted.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The   moratorium on LGBT protections, Gillooly said,   ”ties the hands of local governments who would otherwise have the   ability to pass ordinances that make sense for their   communities.” ’ ’   Legislators were under fierce public pressure to repeal HB2 since   Tuesday, when reports indicated that the NCAA imposed an  on the state: Repeal the law within 48 hours, or   miss out on the chance to host 133 championship sports events   over the next five years. ’ ”   HB2 has already cost the Tar Heel State an estimated hundreds of   millions of dollars since it was passed just over one year ago.   Earlier this week, an  pegged the law’s economic impact as   nearly $4 billion over the next 12 years  —   a combination of money   lost from frozen business expansions, canceled concerts,   relocated sporting events, and boycotts. ” ’   It is unclear whether the replacement bill goes far enough to   please the NCAA, which said earlier this month that HB2 did not   assure ”a safe, healthy,   atmosphere for all   those watching and participating in our events.” An NCAA   representative did not respond to a request to comment. ’ ”   Several lawmakers expressed frustration with the rushed nature of   the repeal process, which they framed as a government bowing to   NCAA pressure. The compromise bill was introduced late Wednesday   night, allowing virtually no time for public input before the   NCAA’s deadline. ” ”   Unlike many recent votes on social issues in North Carolina,   Thursday’s deal did not fall along party lines. Progressive   Democrats in the legislature were afforded the rare experience of   voting with hardline conservatives, many of whom represent safe   Republican districts and had no incentive to do away with HB2. ” ’  ’ ’   During floor debate on Thursday, some Republicans made clear   their contempt for Charlotte, North Carolina’’s biggest city,   which passed LGBT protections last year and spurred the     legislature to override them with HB2. The   bathroom law was never about discrimination, state Rep. Jeff   Collins said, but ”reining in rogue cities” that try to set   policy for the state. ’ ’   Another opponent, Republican state Rep. Bert Jones, cited his   belief that God ”created us male and female” as justification for   keeping HB2 on the books. ’ ’   Other Republicans have maintained that HB2’’s bathroom provision   protects women and girls from sexual predators who might pose as   transgender to gain access to their bathrooms. Pat McCrory, the   Republican governor who signed the bill into law last year,   called Charlotte’’s original antidiscrimination ordinance ”social   engineering.” ’ ”   McCrory’s support for HB2 was widely seen as having contributed   to his loss to Cooper in November’s election. President Donald   Trump, a Republican, carried the state relatively easily, and   Republican US Sen. Richard Burr safely won reelection there, yet   Cooper still edged his Republican rival by about 5, 000 votes. ” ’   In December, Democrats  —   under direction from the newly elected   Cooper  —    a similar proposal that would have repealed HB2 and   enacted a   moratorium on local LGBT ordinances. ’ ”   Thursday’s outcome leaves the governor in a precarious position,   as his signature could be seen as selling out the base that   lifted him to the state’s highest office. ” ’   ”This was the first real test of leadership for Gov. Cooper, a   Democrat, and he failed spectacularly by inexplicably discarding   his earlier promise not to accept any deal that left people   vulnerable to discrimination,” the Charlotte Observer’’s editorial   board . ’ ’   ”The new bill ensures that all gay people  —   not just transgender   people seeking to relieve themselves without being harassed  —   are   susceptible to unequal treatment for at least the next 3     years.” ’ ’North Carolina voted to repeal its ”bathroom. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’