’  ’ ”   US Sen. John McCain said on Sunday that House Intelligence   Committee Chairman Devin Nunes destroyed the House’s bipartisan   investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. ” ’   In an interview with Martha Raddatz on ABC’’s ”This Week,” McCain   said that while he was ”happy to see” the Senate Intelligence   Committee leadership working in a bipartisan fashion, Nunes’’   covert acceptance of documents from White House officials gave   the impression that he was uninterested in a fair investigation   into any connections between Trump campaign officials and   Russia.  ’ ’   ”The fact is that these committees, especially intelligence   committees and Armed Services committees, we work closely   together as Republicans and Democrats,” McCain said. ”We have to.   It’’s for the good of the security of the nation and the men and   women who serve us.”    He continued: ”This is obviously a schism between Republican and   Democrats, let alone that bizarre fashion with which all of this   happened. If we’’re really going to get to the bottom of these   things, it’’s got to be done in a bipartisan fashion. And as far   as I could tell, Congressman Nunes killed that.” ’ ”   McCain previously expressed bewilderment earlier this week at   Nunes’ acceptance of information from several White House   sources, as well as his subsequent decision to brief the   president on the information before sharing it with members   of the House Intelligence Committee. ” ’   ”I think there needs to be a lot of explaining to do,” McCain    ”I’ve been around for quite a   while, and I’ve never heard of any such thing. Obviously, on a   committee like an intelligence committee, you’ve got to have   bipartisanship, otherwise the committee loses credibility. And   there’s so much out there that needs to be explained by the   chairman.” ’ ’’ ’   Nunes drew criticism from Democrats and even a few Republicans   after reports suggested he gained access to classified   intelligence documents from two White House officials. The   documents, he said, showed that members of Trump transition   team may have incidentally had communications   intercepted by the intelligence community. Nunes then briefed the   president about the documents before sharing the information in   them with the House Intelligence Committee, a decision Nunes   subsequently said he regretted. ’ ’   For his part, the chairman has denied that   he coordinated with the White House over the release   of documents. ’ ’US Sen. John McCain said on Sunday that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’