’  ’ ’   Images showing the aftermath of a chemical attack in northwestern   Syria put a spotlight on the devastation there, which claimed the   lives of at least 70 civilians on Tuesday. ’ ’   Abdel Hameed Alyousef, a    shop owner and father to      twins, lost his family in the attack of a town called   Khan Sheikhoun, the Associated Press reported. ’ ”   The newswire service on Wednesday published a striking photo of   the distraught father as he sat inside of a vehicle cradling his   toddlers’ lifeless bodies. ” ’   ”Say goodbye, baby, say goodbye,” Alyousef said, according to the   AP. ’ ’   ”I was right beside them and I carried them outside the house   with their mother,” he continued. ”They were conscious at first,   but 10 minutes later we could smell the odor.” ’ ’’ ’   After the twins and his wife fell ill, he brought them to the   attention of paramedics and left to look for the rest of his   family, thinking his wife and children would eventually recover,   the AP reported. He eventually found the bodies of two of his   brothers, two nephews, and a niece. ’ ’   Later, he discovered both his children and wife had died. ’ ’   ”I couldn’’t save anyone  —   they’’re all dead now,” he said. ’ ’   Alyousef himself may have also been exposed to the alleged   chemicals. ”Abdel Hameed is in very bad shape,” Alyousef’’s cousin   said. ”But he’’s especially broken down over his massive loss.” ’ ”   At least 70 people have died from Tuesday’s air strikes that many   allege were to have been conducted by Syrian President Bashar   Assad’s military, given that Syrian rebels do not have direct   access to air assets. ” ’   Though the UN and other world leaders condemned the attack, less   than 24 hours afterward  were reported to have hit the   same towns. ’ ’   This was not the first time stirring images of Syrian children   made waves across social media. In 2015, a picture of   captured worldwide   attention amid a growing refugee crisis. ’ ’Images showing the aftermath of a chemical. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’