’  ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer apologized for his   controversial comments about the Holocaust after setting off a   firestorm of criticism at a press briefing on Tuesday. ’ ’   ”I mistakenly used an inappropriate and insensitive reference to   the Holocaust, for which, frankly, there is no comparison,”   Spicer said in an interview with CNN host Wolf Blitzer. ”And for   that, I apologize.” ’ ’   Hours earlier, Spicer  by saying that unlike Syrian President   Bashar   Adolf Hitler never used chemical weapons. ’ ’   His subsequent attempts to clarify the false claim seemingly made   things worse when he said Hitler ”was not using the gas on his   own people” the way Assad allegedly did, and referred to   concentration camps as ”Holocaust centers.” ’ ’   But in the interview with Blitzer, Spicer said he’’s ”not in any   way standing by” his remarks, and said he apologized to ”anybody   not just who suffered in the Holocaust or is a descendant of   anybody, but frankly, anyone who was offended by those comments.” ’ ’   Blitzer pressed Spicer, asking whether he knew that Hitler used   gas chambers to exterminate Jews, gypsies, homosexuals, and other   people at death camps across Nazi Germany. ’ ’   ”Clearly I’’m aware of that,” Spicer said. ’ ’   He continued: ”The point was to try to talk about the use of   aircraft as a means by which Assad was using this to gas his   people, but it was a mistake to do that. ’ ’   ”I should have just stayed on topic, stayed focused on the   actions that Assad has taken and the horrible atrocities he   committed against his own people.” ’ ”   Spicer’s comments sparked  on social media, and have led to  most notably from House Minority   Leader Nancy Pelosi. ” ’ ’ ’Sean Spicer: I mistakenly used an inappropriate and insensitive reference to the Holocaust, there is no comparison ’ ’Did you not know there were gas chambers where Nazis slaughtered people? “Yes clearly I’m aware of that” Spicer says ’ ’White House press secretary Sean Spicer. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’