’  ’ ’   Employees at a highly valued Silicon Valley startup are   saying that the company has a brutish CEO who humiliated them and   allegedly fired people right before their stock options   vested, according to an  ’ ’   Orion Hindawi is the CEO cofounder of Tanium, a startup he   created with his father a decade ago. Today it is one of the   mostly highly valued security startups in the tech industry. It   raised $287 million of venture investment at a valuation of $3. 7   billion, much of that coming from VC powerhouse Andreessen   Horowitz. ’ ’   Andreessen Horowitz put $90 million into the company in   2014, then invested another $52 million in 2015, on the urging of   former Microsoft executive Steven Sinofsky, who works as an   advisor for Andreessen Horowitz and once called   Tanium’’s ”     ’ ’   With that, other investors such as TPG Capital, T. Rowe   Price, Geodesic Capital and Institutional Venture Partners,   poured about another $130 million in,  ’ ’   The most remarkable claim in Bloomberg’’s story is an   allegation that Hindawi kept tabs on the employees who had   chunks of stock options and fired some of them right before their   stock vested, a process some employees internally dubbed ”Orion’s   List.” ’ ’’ ”   The allegation is that the CEO didn’t want his majority   stake in the company to become diminished, and thereby   reduce the voting control he and his father have over the company   and the board. ” ’   Employees at startups frequently agree to lower salaries and   receive part of their compensation in stock that vests after   a number of years. As more stock is issued, existing stock   holders find their stakes diluted. ’ ’   A spokesperson told Bloomberg that employees who were fired were   done so for inappropriate conduct.  ’ ”   Hindawi also allegedly publicly insulted   people’s intelligence, mocked a senior executive for   being overweight, and spread rumors about things like sexual   promiscuity and drug abuse among certain current and former   staffers, according to the Bloomberg report. ” ”   For what it’s worth, the tales sources told Bloomberg do not also   appear on job hunting site Glassdoor. Employees who   have submitted  it a 4. 6 out of 5 stars and 88%   of them approve of the CEO. ” ’   But Bloomberg points out that, in less than a year, nine   senior executives have left including the company’s president,   chief marketing officer, chief accounting officer and the chief   of operations and finance. ’ ’   Tanium is being watched as a startup that could IPO   soon.  that it hired Fazal Merchant from Comcast   DreamWorks Animation to be the new operations and finance chief,   presumably charged with the IPO. He replaces former COO and CFO   Eric Brown. ’ ’   Andreessen Horowitz, which holds two board seats, declined   comment to Business Insider. ’ ’   A spokesperson for Tanium also told Business Insider: ’ ’   ”This is not a company in crisis. We’re proud of what we’ve built   and our successes so far. It’s no small thing that Tanium is   trusted to protect and maintain the critical data and assets of a   significant number of the Fortune 100 and many agencies of the US   federal government. Our nearly 100% customer renewal rate and   strong revenue growth wouldn’t be possible without the work of   exceptional people who believe in our mission and love working   here. The real story of Tanium is that we work incredibly hard   and hold ourselves to high ethical and performance standards.   That’s the kind of company we’’re building, and we understand that   doesn’t work for everyone.” ’ ’  ’ ’Employees at a highly valued Silicon. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’