’  ’ ’   Conservative commentator Charles Krauthammer  this week for the National Review that   President Donald Trump’’s apparent reversal of his ”America First”   foreign policy could signal the weakening of chief strategist   Steve Bannon’’s influence in the White House. ’ ’   In recent weeks, Trump has gone against the isolationism he   preached on the campaign trail, firing missiles into Syria   in response to a chemical weapons attack launched by the regime   of President Bashar  . ’ ’   Krauthammer called it a ”    reversal,”   considering that Trump said just earlier this month that he   wanted to be ”president of the United States,” not ”president of   the world.” ’ ”   The Syria strike was a move the Obama administration was loathe   to make after a similar chemical weapons attack in 2013  —   the   administration opted to strike a deal with Assad rather than   take military action against him. Assad was supposed to remove   his arsenal of chemical weapons, but it’s now clear he didn’t   hold up his end of the bargain. ” ’   ”The very swiftness of [Trump’’s] response carried a message   to the wider world,” Krauthammer wrote. ”Obama is gone. No more   elaborate forensic investigations. No agonized presidential   handwringing over the moral dilemmas of a fallen world. It took   Obama 10 months to decide what to do in Afghanistan. It took   Trump 63 hours to make Assad pay for his     duplicity.” ’ ’’ ’   Krauthammer called it ”renewed interventionism” and said it   ”effectively reset [Trump’’s] entire foreign policy.” ’ ’   That could spell trouble for Bannon, who is already on thin ice   in the White House. ’ ’   Bannon often takes credit for honing Trump’’s populist message,   but so far that message hasn’’t translated very well into policy.   And the chief strategist  with the president  —   recent reports   contend that Trump isn’’t happy with the narrative that Bannon is   a ”shadow president” pulling the strings behind the scenes. ’ ’   Krauthammer noted that strike on Syria might have been a big   signal that ”Bannonism,” and its ”drain the swamp”   mentality, are ”in eclipse.” ’ ’   ”Bannon may have written the    inaugural   address,” Krauthammer wrote. ”But it was the old hands, Trump’’s   traditionally internationalist   team, led by   Defense Secretary James Mattis and   adviser H.   R. McMaster, who rewrote the script with the Syria strike.” ’ ’   He concluded that, at least for now, ”the traditionalists are in   the saddle” in the White House. ’ ’Conservative commentator Charles Krauthammer. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’