’  ’ ”   US Vice President Mike Pence  between North   and South Korea on Monday, emphasizing that the US’s strategic   patience with North Korea was over and that the US was   considering the use of military force. ” ’   North Korean   Minister Han Song Ryol shot back hours   later, saying if ”the US is planning a military attack against   us, we will react with a nuclear   strike by our own   style and method,” and threatened ”  war” in response to   any US action. ’ ’   On a call with reporters, the  there   would be a ”significant international response” if North Korea   carried out further nuclear testing. ’ ”   The exchange, while troubling, has become familiar since North   Korea’s nuclear and   programs accelerated, and   President Donald Trump has taken a harder line against the Kim   regime. ” ”   While experts have said with near unanimity that a US military   strike on North Korea would present grave danger or an outright   nuclear catastrophe, another option frequently brandished by   Trump has been leveraging the US’s trade relationship with China,   North Korea’s biggest backer, to act. ” ”   But the US may be overestimating China’s pull with Kim Jong Un,   according to Jenny Town, the assistant director of the     Institute and a managing editor at 38 North, a website that   brings together experts on North Korea. ” ’   ”China and North Korea relations have not been great to begin   with,” Town told Business Insider. Unlike Kim’’s father and   predecessor, Kim Jong Un has never been to China to meet with   Chinese President Xi Jinping, Town said. ’ ’   Town said that, in the past, Beijing could have reined in North   Korea. But Kim Jong Un has engaged in killing off senior   officials with ties to China, thereby insulating himself. Reuters   recently reported that the latest . ’ ’  ’ ’   ”In China they’re very frustrated,” said Town. ”North Korea has   progressed further than what they’re willing to accept” and the   provocations coming out of North Korea make the relationship very   difficult for the Chinese to manage. ’ ’   Though White House spokesman Sean Spicer said on Monday that the   burgeoning relationship between Xi and Trump has  Town said that the US calling for   China to simply shut off the Kim regime from trade is ”a naive   oversimplistic view of the situation.” ’ ’   Town said it would be a mistake to assume that North Korea would   react to China shutting off trade by crawling back to the table.   North Korea could potentially find other trade partners, and even   retaliate against China. ’ ’   ”Floods of refugees, some kinds of military coup . .. the Chinese   aren’t ready yet to take those risks,” said Town. ’ ”   But while Trump tries to force China’s hand against North Korea,   where their leverage may be been overestimated, he refuses to   give an inch on the US’s end. ” ’  ’ ”   The US lately has completely dismissed unconditional talks with   North Korea, instead seeming to float military options with   increasing urgency. The US has an aircraft carrier off North   Korea’s coast and has deployed additional missile defenses to   South Korea. ” ’   ”They need to have some level of exploratory talks,” Town said of   the Trump administration, adding that they could be undergoing     or secret talks. ”Until you get to the table you   don’t even know what’s on the table.” ’ ’   The testy back and forth on Monday between Pence and Han, and the   decades of threats flying back and forth suggests that a new   approach may be warranted. ’ ’   ”Going straight towards threatening military options is just   adding fuel to the fire,” Towns said. ’ ’US Vice President Mike Pence visited the. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’