”   It’s no secret Mark Zuckerberg is pinning Facebook’s prospects on   augmented reality  —   technology that overlays digital imagery onto   the real world, like Snapchat’s signature camera filters. ” ”   At this year’s F8 conference, taking place this week, Zuckerberg    on the company’s ambitious   master plan,   which was first revealed in 2016. According to this timeline,   Facebook expects to turn artificial intelligence, ubiquitous   internet connectivity, and virtual and augmented reality into   viable parts of its business over the next decade. ” ’  ’ ’   To accelerate the rise of augmented reality, a big part of the   plan, Zuckerberg   —   basically a set of   tools for outside developers to build   apps that   you can access from the existing Facebook app’’s camera. That   would theoretically open the door for Facebook to host the next   phenomenon like ”Pokémon Go.” ’ ’  ’ ”   While this announcement seems pretty innocuous, make no mistake  —     Facebook is  putting itself into direct competition with Google   and Apple, trying to create yet another parallel universe of apps   and tools that don’t rely on the smartphones’ marketplaces. As    Zuckerberg has long been   disappointed that Facebook never built a credible smartphone   operating system of its own. ” ”   This time, though, Facebook is also declaring war on pretty much   everyone else in the tech industry, too. While it’ll take at   least a decade to fully play out, the stuff Facebook is talking   about today is just one more milestone on the slow  and the rise of even   weirder and wilder futures. ” ’   Zuckerberg tipped his hand, just a bit, during Tuesday’’s Facebook   F8 keynote. During a demo of the company’’s vision for augmented   reality  —   in the form of a pair of   —   he showed how you   could have a virtual ”screen” in your living room, bigger than   your biggest TV. ’ ’   ”We don’’t need a physical TV. We can buy a $1 app ’’TV’’ and put it   on the wall and watch it,” . ”It’’s   actually pretty amazing when you think about how much of the   physical stuff we have doesn’’t need to be physical.” ’ ’  ’ ”   That makes sense, assuming you’re into the idea of wearing a   computer on your face (and you’re OK with Facebook  glitches and   all). ” ”   But it’s not just TVs. This philosophy could extend to   smartphones, smartwatches, tablets, fitness trackers, or anything   else that has a screen or relies on one to work. Zuckerberg even   showed off a street art installation that’s just a blank wall   until you wave the Facebook camera app over it to reveal a mural. ” ’   For Microsoft, which has already dipped its toe in this area with   its HoloLens holographic goggles, this is a foregone conclusion.    recently called the demise of the   smartphone the ”natural conclusion” of augmented reality and its   associated technologies. ’ ”   The problem, naturally, is that a huge chunk of the world’s   economy hinges on the production of phones, TVs, tablets, and all   those other things that Facebook thinks could be replaced with   this technology. ” ”   Even Zuckerberg acknowledges it’s a long road ahead. That said,   this Camera Effects platform, should it succeed in attracting a   bunch of users, could go down as a savvy move. The apps that are   built for the Facebook Camera today could wind up as the first   versions of the apps you’d use with those glasses. ” ’  ’ ”   In the short term, Facebook’s play for augmented reality is going   to look a lot like   —   and in a meaningful way, it is.   Facebook needs developer and user love, so it needs to keep   offering fun and funny tools to keep people from moving away from   using its apps. ” ’   In the long term, though, this is Facebook versus everybody else   to usher in an age of a new kind of computing  —   and pretty much   every tech company out there will get caught in the crossfire, as   Apple, Google, Microsoft, and more rush out their responses to   this extremely existential, but still meaningful, threat. ’ ”It’s no secret Mark Zuckerberg is pinning. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’