’  ’ ’   UC Berkeley has  by conservative   icon Ann Coulter over fears that it may spark further protests. ’ ’   The school was at the  in February when   conservative firebrand Milo Yiannopoulos was invited to speak on   campus. Fights also broke out around its campus last week when    during   an event at Civic Center Park. ’ ”   In light of these events, university officials said in a letter   to the campus Republican group that had invited Coulter to speak   that it had canceled her speech over worries that it may fuel   backlash the way Yiannopoulos’ scheduled appearance had. The same   college Republican group had invited Yiannopoulos to speak in   February, but his invitation was also rescinded amidst the   violence that news of his planned appearance prompted. ” ’   After her speech was canceled, Coulter told The Washington Post   in an email that UC Berkeley had been trying to force her to pull   out of her appearance by ”imposing ridiculous demands,” but that   she complied with ”all of their silly requirements.” ’ ’   Berkeley spokesman Dan Mogulof told The Post that although it had   not been in contact with Coulter, it had been in touch with the   campus group that invited her to speak. ”Everything we’’re doing   is so the speaker and students can actually exercise their rights   without disruption,” Mogulof said. ”It’’s unfortunate that people   who think the university’’s efforts to keep students and the   speaker herself safe are ’’silly. ’’” ’ ’’ ”   Coulter said those requirements included that she make her speech   in the middle of the day, that the event only be open to   students, and that the venue she’d be speaking at wouldn’t be   announced until the last minute. She had planned to speak to   students about immigration. ” ’   Coulter said that she believes her right to free speech ”has been   unconstitutionally banned” by the ”public,      .” ’ ’   She continued: ”They just up and announced that I was prohibited   from speaking anyway . .. I feel like the Constitution is   important and that   universities should not be   using public funds to violate American citizens’’ Constitutional   rights.” ’ ”   University officials said they were initially unaware of   Coulter’s invitation because the campus Republican group had not   informed the university it was inviting her. They said they found   out about the event after reading about it in newspapers. ” ”   Coulter said in her email that she is still planning on speaking   at the university, and the spokesman for Young America’s   Foundation, a conservative national group that helped organize   the event, said Coulter is planning to speak on April 27. ” ’   ”If Berkeley wants to have free speech, they are going to get   it,” the spokesman, Spencer Brown, said. ’ ’   Berkeley officials said that they were not canceling Coulter’’s   appearance because of her controversial views. ”It has nothing to   do with anyone’’s political views. We believe in unqualified   support to the First Amendment. But we also have an unqualified   focus on safety of our students,” Mogulof said. ”We are going to   be making a concerted effort to explain the reasons behind this.” ’ ’UC Berkeley has canceled a scheduled speech by. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’