’  ’ ’   North Korean state media warned the United States of a   ”  preemptive strike” after US Secretary of State Rex   Tillerson said the United States was looking at ways to bring   pressure to bear on North Korea over its nuclear program. ’ ’   US President Donald Trump has taken a hard line with North Korean   leader Kim Jong Un, who has rebuffed admonitions from its sole   major ally, China, and proceeded with nuclear and missile   programs in defiance of UN Security Council sanctions. ’ ”   Rodong Sinmun, the official newspaper of the North’s ruling   Workers’ Party, did not mince its words. ” ’   ”In the case of our   preemptive strike being   launched, it will completely and immediately wipe out not only US   imperialists’’ invasion forces in South Korea and its surrounding   areas but the US mainland and reduce them to ashes,” it said. ’ ’   Reclusive North Korea regularly threatens to destroy Japan, South   Korea, and the United States and has shown no letup in its   belligerence after a failed missile test on Sunday, a day after   putting on a huge display of missiles at a parade in Pyongyang. ’ ’   Tillerson told reporters in Washington on Wednesday that the   United States was ”reviewing all the status of North Korea, both   in terms of state sponsorship of terrorism as well as the other   ways in which we can bring pressure on the regime in Pyongyang.” ’ ’   US Vice President Mike Pence, on a tour of Asian allies, has   repeatedly said an ”era of strategic patience” with North Korea   is over. ’ ’  ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan said during a visit to London that the   military option must be part of the pressure. ’ ’   ”Allowing this dictator to have that kind of power is not   something that civilized nations can allow to happen,” he said,   alluding to Kim. ’ ’   Ryan said he was encouraged by the results of efforts to work   with China to reduce tensions, but that it was unacceptable that   North Korea might be able to strike allies with nuclear weapons. ’ ’   North and South Korea are technically still at war because their     conflict ended in a truce, not a peace treaty. ’ ’  ’ ”   South Korea’s acting president, Hwang   at a meeting with   top officials on Thursday repeatedly called for the military and   security ministries to maintain vigilance. ” ’   The defense ministry said US and South Korean air forces were   conducting an annual training exercise, codenamed Max Thunder,   until April 28. North Korea routinely labels such exercises   preparations for an invasion. ’ ’   ”We are conducting a practical and more intensive exercise than   ever,” South Korean pilot Col. Lee   told reporters.   ”Through this exercise, I am sure we can deter war and remove our   enemy’’s intention to provoke us.” ’ ’   South Korean presidential candidates clashed on Wednesday night   in a debate over the planned deployment in South Korea of a     Terminal High Altitude Area Defense     system, which has angered China. ’ ”   On Monday, Hwang and Pence reaffirmed their plans to go ahead   with the deployment, but the decision will be up to the next   South Korean president. China says the system’s powerful radar is   a threat to its security. ” ’   The North has said it has developed a missile that can strike the   mainland United States, but officials and experts believe it is   some time away from mastering the necessary technology, including   miniaturizing a nuclear warhead. ’ ”   The United States and Russia clashed at the United Nations on   Wednesday over a   Security Council statement to condemn   North Korea’s latest failed ballistic missile test. ” ’   Diplomats said China had agreed to the statement. ’ ’   Such statements by the   council have to be agreed on by   consensus. ’ ’  ’ ’   Previous statements denouncing missile launches said it ”welcomed   efforts by council members, as well as other states, to   facilitate a peaceful and comprehensive solution through   dialogue.” The latest draft statement dropped ”through dialogue,”   and Russia requested its inclusion. ’ ’   ”When we requested to restore the agreed language that was of   political importance and expressed commitment to continue to work   on the draft . .. the US delegation without providing any   explanations cancelled the work on the draft,” the Russian UN   mission said in a statement. ’ ’  ’ ’   The United States cut the words because they ”would overly narrow   the means by which the international community could arrive at a   peaceful and comprehensive solution to the North Korean nuclear   problem,” it told council members, according to diplomats. ’ ’   Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said China believed in   the Security Council maintaining unity. ’ ’   ”Speaking with one voice is extremely important to the Security   Council appropriately responding to the relevant issue on the   peninsula,” he told reporters. ’ ’   There was confusion over the whereabouts of a US aircraft carrier   group after Trump said last week he sent an ”armada” as a warning   to North Korea, even as the ships were far from Korean waters. ’ ”   The US military’s Pacific Command explained that the USS Carl   Vinson strike group first had to complete a      period of training with Australia. It is now heading for the   western Pacific as ordered, it said. ” ’North Korean state media warned the United. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’