’  ’ ’   Former vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin said Thursday   that Fox News’’ corporate culture ”has to change” in light of   multiple sexual harassment scandals and said women should ”feel   empowered” to report harassment rather than ”stick around for a   paycheck.” ’ ’   Palin was a paid Fox News contributor from 2010 to 2015. ’ ”   Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was  amid   allegations that he sexually harassed several women over the   course of his career. Former Fox News CEO Roger Ailes left the   network last year amid a similar scandal. ” ’   ”Corporate culture there obviously has to change,” Palin told   CNN’’s Jake Tapper. ”Women don’’t deserve, they should not ever   have to put up with any kind of intimidating workplace.” ’ ’   Palin continued: ”At the same time, if a woman believes that she   is being intimidating and harassed, she needs to stand up and do   something about it, not stick around for a paycheck for years and   years and years and then after the fact complain about what she   went through.” ’ ”   It was unclear to whom Palin was referring. But former Fox   host Megyn Kelly detailed what she described as ongoing   harassment from Ailes in her book,  and former longtime Fox anchor Gretchen Carlson   sued Ailes around the time she left the network. Some of   O’Reilly’s accusers had also reportedly endured harassment for   extended periods of time before filing lawsuits. ” ’   ”As a strong woman, I say we should feel more empowered than that   and we should, you know, take a stand and get out of the place or   blow the whistle on whoever is the perpetrator doing the bad   stuff so that the culture will change,” Palin said. ’ ’ O’’Reilly said it   was ”tremendously disheartening” that he had to leave   Fox ”due to completely unfounded claims.” ’ ”   Earlier this month, The New York Times published an investigation   that found that O’Reilly and Fox News had  to five women to settle   sexual harassment claims they had brought against him. ” ’ ’ ’Sarah Palin on Fox News: The corporate culture there “obviously has to change.” ’ ’Former vice presidential nominee Sarah. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’