’  ’ ’   Some of the biggest names in tech are known for dropping out of   the  the US. ’ ’   Mark Zuckerberg, Bill Gates, and Steve Jobs all left school   before graduation to launch companies. Peter Thiel  willing to pursue their   startups dreams instead of a diploma. These . ’ ”   That hasn’t stopped one university from broadening its offerings   for budding entrepreneurs. ” ’   A new program at the University of California, Berkeley, wants to   launch future tech leaders by teaching the wide variety of skills   required of them in the real world. The   ’ ’  ’ ’   The program has already caught the attention of a top investment   firm. Kleiner Perkins announced it will give an interview to   every incoming MET student for its  which lets students    ’ ”   Michael Grimes, managing director at Morgan Stanley and one of   Silicon Valley’s  has been pitching Berkeley (his   alma mater) on a program like this for years. Sitting in his   office, which is decorated with certificates and trophies   commemorating the IPOs he led for  ” ’   ”It looks like it is going to be the  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Students have until May 1 to accept their invitations to join the   inaugural class. ’ ”   Part of the pitch for MET, which competes with the University of   Pennsylvania’s Jerome Fisher Program in Management and Technology   (that program largely inspired MET) is that it offers a more   direct route to   roles in tech. Plenty of entrepreneurs   study computer science and engineering in their undergraduate   years, gain three to five years of work experience, and go on to   earn their MBA. MET streamlines that path by teaching both   disciplines at the same time. ” ’  ’ ’   ’ ”   Andy Chen, a partner at Kleiner Perkins who heads up the firm’s   Fellows Program and recruits heavily from UPenn’s M&T   program, is promising interviews to every incoming freshman at   MET. ” ’   ”You tend to find that the engineer that just doesn’’t understand   life beyond code is operating at 50% capacity. To have a broader   understanding of the business is super important, especially when   you’’re the founder of a company or you’’re an early employee at a   company,” Chen says. ’ ’   Grimes is hopeful that the next Mark Zuckerberg and Evan Spiegel   might graduate from Berkeley. And someday, he wants to make them   billionaires. ”I’’ll do their IPOs,” he says. ’ ’Some of the biggest names in tech are known for. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’