’  ’ ”   Whether the federal government shuts down on Friday could hinge   on whether Congress includes funding for President Donald Trump’s   proposed border wall in legislation to keep the government   funded. ” ’   Trump and administration officials have in recent days talked up   the possibility of including funding for a wall along the     border. That could set up a showdown with Democrats and   even members of his party as the clock ticks toward a shutdown. ’ ’ whether he would sign   a bill that did not include funding for the wall, Trump was   noncommittal. ’ ’   ”I don’’t know yet,” Trump said. ”People want the border wall. My   base definitely wants the border wall. My base really wants it  —     you’’ve been to many of the rallies. OK, the thing they want more   than anything is the wall.” ’ ’   The president also used Twitter over the weekend and on Monday to   lay the groundwork for a push to fund the wall. ’ ’   ”The Democrats don’’t want money from budget going to border wall   despite the fact that it will stop drugs and very bad MS 13 gang   members,” . He followed that up with a tweetstorm on   Monday about the importance of the wall. ’ ’   Trump also mentioned his campaign promise to require  a proposition Mexican officials   . ’ ’   ”Eventually, but at a later date so we can get started early,   Mexico will be paying, in some form, for the badly needed border   wall,” . ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t. ...the wall is not built, which it will be, the drug situation will NEVER be fixed the way it should be! ’ ’   Administration officials who made the rounds on the Sunday   political talk shows sounded more cautious about including     funding in the spending bill. ’ ’   Chief of Staff Reince Priebus  that if there were ”enough as far   as flexibility for the border wall and border security” in the   spending bill, the administration would ”be OK with that.” ’ ’   On the other hand, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly    that Trump had been ”pretty   straightforward about his desire and the need for a border wall”   and that funding for it was a vital element of the president’’s   negotiations on the shutdown. ’ ’   ”So I would suspect he’’ll do the right thing for sure, but I   would suspect he will be insistent on the funding,” Kelly said. ’ ”   Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and   Budget, has proposed a deal  —   the Trump administration  for Obamacare’s     reduction payments, which help mitigate losses for   insurers, for every $1 in funding for the wall. ” ’   ”Right now, that’’s the offer that we’’ve given to our Democratic   colleagues,” . ’ ’   Trump also seemed to hint at this idea in a tweet on Sunday. ’ ’   ”Obamacare is in serious trouble,” Trump said. ”The Dems need big   money to keep it going   otherwise it dies far sooner than anyone   would have thought.” ’ ’   Democrats, however, blasted the idea. Senate Minority Leader   Chuck Schumer’’s office said the White House’’s suggestion was a   ”gambit to hold hostage healthcare for millions of Americans.” ’ ’   ”The US government is supposed to take care of its citizens, and,   according to the president, Mexico is supposed to pay for the   wall,” a representative for Schumer said. ”If the administration   would drop their   demand for a wall that Democrats,   and a good number of Republicans, oppose, congressional leaders   could quickly reach a deal.” ’ ”   While Schumer and Democrats alone cannot block a funding bill,   budget hawks in Congress’ conservative factions, like the House   Freedom Caucus, could balk at increasing the deficit to fund the   wall. ” ”   Given the GOP’s  because of   intraparty disagreements, the passage of the spending bill is   questionable. Thomas Block, a Washington policy analyst at   Fundstrat, described the problem in a note to clients on Monday: ” ’Whether the federal government shuts down on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’