’  ’ ’   BERKELEY, Calif.  —   Police at the University of California at   Berkeley braced on Thursday for potential civil unrest stemming   from a   speaking engagement by conservative   commentator   following a   recent spate of politically charged violence on or near the   campus. ’ ” one of America’s   and most   provocative pundits on the political right, said on Wednesday   that she no longer intended to defy university officials by   addressing UC Berkeley students on campus this week. ” ’  ’ ’   Coulter left open the possibility of paying a visit to her   supporters at the school, long a bastion of liberal student   activism and a center of the Free Speech Movement protests of the   1960s. ’ ’   Campus police Captain Alex Yao said his department would maintain   ”a highly visible presence,” pointing to continued threats of   violent protests by  supporters and   opponents. Berkeley city police also issued a notice that   local law enforcement was on alert for any protests that turned   unruly. ’ ’   ”Berkeley police and allied agencies are working cooperatively to   ensure the safety of attendees while arresting those who commit   violence or other crimes,” the notice said. ’ ’   As of noon, a peaceful crowd of roughly 100 people, some carrying   American flags, some wearing helmets, had congregated in downtown   Berkeley at a public square ahead of demonstrations expected   later in the day. About a dozen police officers stood nearby,   batons and helmets dangling from their belts. ’ ’   So far, the demonstrations appear peaceful, though two   people were reportedly . Calls for dispersing the   crowd came around 3:30 p. m. due to a nearby high school ending   their class. ’ ’   ”We’’re here for peace,” said David Fry, a resident of Tacoma,   Washington, and head of the American Freedom Motorcycle   Association. ”I expect free speech to happen.” ’ ’   Campus and local authorities said they were taking the potential   for lawlessness seriously following several episodes of   politically fueled disturbances. ’ ’   In February, protesters opposed to an appearance by Milo   Yiopoulos, then a senior editor for the   conservative Breitbart News website, set fires, broke windows and   clashed with police on campus, prompting cancellation of his   speech. ’ ’   And in March and again in April, opposing groups from the     and   skirmished violently near   campus.  ’ ”   UC Berkeley Chancellor Nicholas Dirks cited all three incidents   in explaining why the school balked at ’s   original plans to speak on campus on Thursday. ” ’   University officials said organizers erred by inviting    without notifying campus officials in   advance, as is required of all student groups, and by failing to   submit to a ”security assessment” to determine a suitable venue   for the event. UC Berkeley officials denied that    was unwelcome because of her politics. ’ ’   After initially barring a  speech for   Thursday, university officials proposed moving the event to next   Tuesday.  said she could not make it then and   accused the school of trying to limit her audience by choosing a   date that fell in a study week ahead of final exams. ’ ’ then insisted she would go through with her   speech on Thursday, despite university objections. But she   changed her mind after student organizers withdrew their   invitation, though they vowed to press ahead with a lawsuit filed   on Tuesday accusing UC Berkeley of suppressing freedom of speech. ’ ’   Following the cancellation of the event, Richard Spencer,   a  ’ ’ ’ ’BERKELEY, Calif.  —   Police at the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’