’  ’ ’   The Fyre Festival was supposed to be an escape to an island   paradise, where you and your friends could party with super   models and indulge in luxury. ’ ’   however, was a day spent trapped on an island, allegedly with no   plumbing, a processed cheese sandwich, few musicians, and   airport officials who reportedly padlocked dehydrated attendees   waiting for a plane to escape. ’ ’   The festival was the brainchild of young entrepreneur Billy   McFarland and early 2000s rap star Ja Rule. ’ ’   After hours of social media postings from attendees who   learned shortly upon arrival on the Bahamian island that the   festival was canceled and that there were no flights home or   hotels to stay at,  denying the allegation the   festival was a scam while also apologizing. ’ ’   McFarland broke his silence late on Friday  and spoke again on Saturday   morning through . ’ ’   ”We were overwhelmed and just didn’’t have the foresight to solve   all these problems,” McFarland told Rolling Stone, adding that he   and his team were ”a little naive.” He said that he would atone   for the failure by refunding all attendees this weekend and   offering them access to a free festival in the US later this   year. He said that the Fyre Festival as it was intended will     in 2018, and that $1. 50 of every ticket would go to the   Red Cross in the Bahamas (later saying in the TMZ video each   donation would be $1. 00). ’ ’   ”Next year, we will definitely start earlier,” he said. ’ ”   On Saturday morning, McFarland told TMZ that promoters and   artists had already reached out to him, and that he was working   with them on next year’s festival, to be held at a beach location   in the US. ” ’   McFarland created Fyre with Ja Rule in 2015, and told the story   of how they came together . ’ ’   McFarland was interested in putting on a music event of some sort   and decided to find the representative of Ja Rule, one of his   favorite artists. His first stop was Instagram, where he found a   guy going by ”Reggie Muscles” who claimed to be the rapper’’s   representative. Reggie Muscles requested $500 for a meeting with   Ja Rule. ’ ’  ’ ’   Instead of the rapper, Muscles passed McFarland to ”Big Fred,”   who made the same request. This repeated several times, McFarland   said, until he finally found himself on a helicopter with Ja Rule   after spending thousands to finally get to him. It was here, he   said, that he learned Ja Rule had no idea McFarland had been   trying to book him. ’ ’   And thus Fyre was born, they said, as a way to cut out the middle   men and create a festival that dealt with artists directly. ’ ”   This year’s event was supposed to be headlined by   who   canceled shortly before the event, citing a lack of resources   provided by Fyre. ” ’   In his Rolling Stone account, McFarland said he and Ja Rule   picked the Exumas section of the Bahamas because of its beauty.   He said that he later learned that there was no working water or   sewage on the island. He told TMZ that he had to ship an   ambulance to the island from New Jersey for the event. ’ ”   McFarland claimed that he didn’t cancel the event sooner   because things didn’t turn so bad until a storm late Wednesday   night destroyed much of the event’s infrastructure. ” ”   This isn’t the first time McFarland has faced complaints for   failing to deliver. Earlier this year,  that many members of McFarland’s   Magnises club for millennials said that Magnises regularly   canceled events with little notice, and that their Magnises   credit cards were frauduently charged. ” ”   As for Fyre, McFarland said he’s moving forward and will be more   prepared next time, assuming that actually happens. ” ’.” ’ ’The Fyre Festival was supposed to be an escape. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’