’  ’ ’   An anonymous hacker has  to release   “” season five episodes online  —   after  allegedly failed to respond to the   cybercriminal’s shakedown demands. ’ ’Variety was unable to verify the authenticity of the   “OITNB” episodes the hacker claimed to have shared on popular     site the Pirate Bay. ’ ’   The first 10 episodes of season 5 were apparently shared shortly   before 6 a. m. ET Saturday, with the 10 files comprising a   total of 11. 46 gigabytes. The hacker, who uses the handle   “thedarkoverlord,” published the premiere episode from the   upcoming season of “Orange Is the New Black” on Friday to the   Pirate Bay. ’ ’   Netflix has set June 9 for the release of season five of    It’s possible   that the streamer will move up the “OITNB” premiere date now that   the bulk of the episodes have leaked. ’ ’   Reps for Netflix did not immediately respond to a request for   comment about the latest development outside regular business   hours. ’ ’’ ’   According to “thedarkoverlord,” the hacker or hackers also have   obtained unreleased shows from ABC, Fox, National Geographic and   IFC. The content appears to have been stolen in an attack on     studio Larson Studios in late 2016,   according to   site TorrentFreak.   “Thedarkoverlord” explained in an online post that they obtained   only the first 10 of the 13 episodes of “OITNB” season 5 because   the cyberattack was carried out before the final three   installments were available. ’ ’   In a statement Friday, Netflix said: “We are aware of the   situation. A production vendor used by several major TV studios   had its security compromised and the appropriate law enforcement   authorities are involved. ” ’ ’   It’s not clear what impact the theft and piracy of one of   Netflix’s top shows will have. The hacker (or hacker   collective) behind the heist has claimed to have made   an extortion demand to the company, asking for an unspecified sum   of money. However, the motive for purloining and leaking “OITNB”   could be more about bragging rights in the cybercrime underworld. ’ ’   In a message posted early Saturday, “thedarkoverlord” was   arrogant and even scolding. ’ ’   “It didn’t have to be this way, Netflix. You’re going to lose a   lot more money in all of this than what our modest offer was,”   the hacker wrote. “We’re quite ashamed to breathe the same air as   you. We figured a pragmatic business such as yourselves would see   and understand the benefits of cooperating with a reasonable and   merciful entity like ourselves. ” ’ ’   The hacker concluded the diatribe with an explicit threat to the   other networks whose TV shows were allegedly stolen: “And to the   others: there’s still time to save yourselves. Our offer( s) are   still on the table  —   for now. ” ’ ’   Netflix last year renewed “OITNB,” which execs have said has been   consistently its   original series, . Creator and showrunner   Jenji Kohan signed on for all the upcoming seasons of the show,   produced by Lionsgate TV and based on the 2010 memoir by Piper   Kerman. ’ ’An anonymous hacker has carried through on a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’