’  ’ ”   Fyre Festival’s leaked advertising pitch reveals a lot about what   the festival runners had planned. ” ’   The leaked document,  lists ”Fyre Starters” as the   event’’s main form of advertising, with slides dedicated to 400   social media personalities  —   including Kendall Jenner, Bella   Hadid, and Hailey Baldwin  —   who would be paid to drum up sales by   posting about the event. ’ ’   Aside from these   Fyre Starters, the pitch does not seem   to include any other form of advertising. ’ ”   Also, according to Vanity Fair, many of these brand ambassadors   did not note that they were advertising for Fyre Festival when   they posted promotional pictures and videos for the event, which   is required by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). In effect,   they could have been accused of misleading their fans if they   didn’t note that the post was an ad. ” ’   The document also reveals the company planned for five festivals   over five years in honor of the five elements of the earth,   saying in the pitch, ”Throughout the next five years, we will   traverse the globe to find untouched lands and convert them into   unparalleled experiences.” ’ ’   This year was supposed to be  . ’ ’  ’ ”   After a few slides about the the festival’s business model, the   pitch featured slides that were likely meant to be inspirational,    are anything but.   For example, one slide simply reads: ” ’   ”WHAT IF WE REIMAGINED WHAT IT MEANS TO ATTEND A MUSIC FESTIVAL?”   over a picture of an outdoor concert. But after the festival’’s   fast   the phrase takes on a whole new meaning. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSo they charged 10k and this is what people got in return? ??  ! ?? Is this for real? ??  ’ ’   The next slide is just as unfortunate given the new context: ”THE   ACTUAL EXPERIENCE EXCEEDS ALL EXPECTATIONS AND IS SOMETHING   THAT’S HARD TO PUT TO WORDS,” the slide reads. Fyre     who were  for hours without food, water or shelter might have   a different take on that. ’ ’   Under ”Summary,” the slide states: ”These weekends go beyond the   beauty of a remote beach, its vast landscape and perfect waters.   The focus is on a global audience coming together in sharing a   life changing experience.” ’ ’   Beyond the beach may be correct. The fans who showed up barely   saw a beach before having to wait in a crowded airport to get a   flight home. ’ ’   Ultimately, Vanity Fair said it best when it described the pitch   deck as ”an amalgamation of a Miami Beach spa package with   selfies you might find saved on a teenager’s smartphone,” not   like something to actually invest in. ’ ’  ’ ’   Fyre Festival is now  after fans, who had spent   between $1, 200 and $100, 000 on tickets, were stranded on an   island with no festival, no shelter, and no food and water  —     until the cheese sandwiches pictured above were handed out. ’ ’ reads that the team was ”overwhelmed” by the   amount of people coming and the amount of work that had to be   done to retrofit the island for the festival. All guests this   year will be recieving a full refund, according to the website,   and VIP passes to next year’’s Fyre Festival. ’ ”   After the fiasco, the Bahamas  the festival organizers from doing further   business on the island, according to TMZ. Neither Bahamas tourism   officials nor Fyre Festival officials were immediately available   for comment. The festival’s website says next year’s event will   be at a US beach. ” ”Fyre Festival’s leaked advertising pitch. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’