’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump has made some huge promises for healthcare   overhaul, but his new guarantee for people with preexisting   conditions may not reflect the reality of the GOP’s current   legislation. ” ’   Trump has promised that the plan to repeal and replace the   Affordable Care Act, the law also known as Obamacare, will bring   down premiums, deductibles, and the cost to the government, and   will eventually cover ”everybody.” ’ ’   Most   experts agree that hitting all four of these   marks is next to impossible. ’ ’   Now, with the White House and congressional leaders apparently   readying an effort to bring the American Health Care Act to the   House floor, Trump is making another promise that is contradicted   by the actual legislation. ’ ’   In an  on Sunday, Trump   guaranteed protections for patients with preexisting conditions,   something he has done since the campaign. ’ ’’ ’   ”Preexisting conditions are in the bill,” Trump said. ”And I just   watched another network than yours, and they were saying,   ’’Preexisting is not covered. ’’ Preexisting conditions are in the   bill. And I mandate it. I said, ’’Has to be. ’’” ’ ’   Trump reiterated those comments during  on Monday, saying the AHCA has to   cover preexisting conditions just as well as or better than   Obamacare. ’ ’   ”I want it to be good for sick people. It’’s not in its final form   right now,” Trump said. ”It will be every bit as good on   preexisting conditions as Obamacare.” ’ ’   But those guarantees run in opposition to recent adjustments to   the AHCA. ’ ’   An amendment to the bill written by moderate Republican Rep. Tom   MacArthur would allow states to  including aspects of   its   provisions that mandated all people who are   the same age be charged the same price by insurers. ’ ’   If a state were given a waiver for those protections, experts   agree that insurers could price  above those for healthy   people and, in the worst case,  for people with preexisting conditions   to access insurance. ’ ’   Speaking with CBS, Trump said the addition of ”pools” could   offset the issue. ’ ’   The new version of the AHCA would allow for the implementation of   an ”invisible   pool,” which would function as a way to   subsidize insurers covering people with preexisting conditions to   keep costs down for others. ’ ”   That could reduce costs for people without preexisting   conditions, but unless the government adequately funded the plan,   it would  with higher   costs or unable to enroll. According to experts at the Kaiser   Family Foundation, a nonpartisan   think tank, the   current iteration of the AHCA’s pools would . ” ”   In response to Trump’s comments to Bloomberg, AshLee Strong, a   spokeswoman for House Speaker Paul Ryan, told NBC that the AHCA   would take care of people with preexisting conditions. ” ’   ”The Republican plan protects people with preexisting   conditions,” Strong said. ”States can’’t opt out without a     pool to take care of them. And waivers never apply to   someone who has been continuously covered. We believe there is   more than one way to address this problem.” ’ ’   House Republicans are attempting to wrangle enough votes to pass   the AHCA at some point this week. Both administration and   congressional officials have  and reports suggest it   could be as soon as Wednesday. ’ ’President Donald Trump has made some huge. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’