’  ’ ”   I’ve been reluctant to focus too much on Hillary Clinton after   her election loss, but  of her loss   today, I thought I would add my thoughts. ” ’   Clinton thinks she would have won if not for the October 28   letter from James Comey. I tend to agree. ’ ’   But in any close election, there is more than one factor that, if   changed, would have led to a different result. And I think   the most productive questions for Democrats to dwell on are the   ones about what they did wrong, not about what misfortunes befell   them. ’ ”   A better candidate than Clinton would not have been vulnerable to   the Comey letter. And Clinton’s problems started much earlier,   and ran much deeper, than her choices about what states to   campaign in. ” ’   I want to focus on one question: Why did  that Trump was the candidate of   ordinary people while Clinton (and Democrats broadly) stood   for wealthy elites  —   despite the fact that Trump ran on an   agenda of deep tax cuts and financial regulation, and has    after winning? ’ ’’ ”   A lot of explanations for this amount to Trump having pulled a   fast one on downscale voters, and a lot of explanations focus on   Trump’s appeals to racial resentment. These explanations aren’t   necessarily wrong, but they’re incomplete. ” ”   The conclusion that Clinton stood for the elite wasn’t was   just reached by white   voters in the Midwest (who   swung toward Trump) and black   voters (whose turnout   was depressed). It’s also a conclusion that was also reached by a   large chunk of America’s wealthy elite. ” ”   Hillary Clinton won Greenwich, Connecticut, by 17 points. Four   years earlier, Barack Obama had lost it by 11. In New Trier   Township, Illinois (which contains Winnetka and other rich   suburbs north of Chicago) she improved Obama’s margin from   10 points to 43. In Weston, Massachusetts, she turned Obama’s     win into 41 points. ” ’   In similar, ”leafy” suburban jurisdictions outside America’’s most   major cities, wealthy voters abandoned the Republicans in droves   to choose Clinton over Trump, producing   point swings   toward the Democratic Party. The widely expected Trump collapse   among   whites didn’’t materialize nationally on   the scale that she would have needed to win, but boy did it ever   materialize in these specific jurisdictions, exactly the sort of   places you would expect Trump’’s plutocratic agenda to produce the   greatest benefits. ’ ”   Trump’s promises of tax cuts and bank deregulation didn’t turn   off voters in   Midwestern cities, and they also   didn’t impress voters in America’s fanciest suburbs. Why? ” ”   Maybe voters in both places were both reacting to the same   signals: Clinton’s coziness with a global elite that funded the   Clinton Foundation and  and Trump’s willingness to reject priorities of   business elites, like   agreements and high immigration   levels  —   not to mention his crude demeanor that would tend   to get him thrown out of Winnetka’s better garden parties. ” ’   Maybe voters in Greenwich and Youngstown made the same inferences   about what it meant that a candidate would take two years off   politics so she and her husband could make $75 million, much of   it by selling access to themselves, including $675, 000 for   speeches to Goldman Sachs. ’ ’   Unfortunately for Clinton, there are a lot more voters in places   like Youngstown than in places like Greenwich. ’ ”   The idea that Trump would be bad for Goldman Sachs was, of   course, hilariously wrong. But a candidate who hadn’t taken   $675, 000 from the bank would have been able to make a clearer   case that she was the better choice to hold banks accountable. ” ”   This is the main problem I have with Clinton’s own postmortem of   her loss. She clearly understands that, in addition to having   been kneecapped by the director of the FBI, she made some   significant tactical errors, such as campaigning in the wrong   states. ” ’   She does not seem to have reflected on the fact that her   extracurricular choices strongly reinforced the idea that   she was in bed with wealthy and powerful interests, such as   banks. ’ ”   Democratic politicians would do well to remember that their   personal choices drive voters’ perceptions of who they care   about, and  like the Clintons’ that create negative   perceptions in places poorer than Greenwich. ” ”I’ve been reluctant to focus too much on. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’