This recap discusses events in detail from the first two episodes of Netflix’s “The Crown. ”  As we saw from the success of “Downton Abbey,” the reassuring rigidities of the British class system can do wonders for angsty Americans. If you’re grossed out by the utter charmlessness and moral squalor of a year’s worth of debased political   a perfect antidote is “The Crown,” Netflix’s compulsively watchable dramatization of the life of Queen Elizabeth II, served up on a silver platter by dramatist Peter Morgan (“The Queen”) and the director and producer Stephen Daldry (“The Audience”). Instead of sitting with an ice pack on your head and listening to John King yakking on CNN about red and blue paths to victory, revel in John Lithgow’s droll old war horse, Winston Churchill, as he makes his imperial progress up the aisle at Westminster Abbey. Notice how augustly the patriotic hero takes his seat in a pew next to his sanely amused,   wife, Clemmie, at the wedding of the young Princess Elizabeth to Lt. Philip Mountbatten of the Royal Navy, formerly the Prince of Greece and Denmark and newly the Duke of Edinburgh, Earl of Merioneth and Baron Greenwich of Greenwich. Instead of ranting about the leaking and the belching and defaming of email leaks and social media, experience the private courage  —   the crushing, unexpressed pain  —   of the    King George VI, played with quiet depth and range by Jared Harris (best known as the tormented Lane Pryce in “Mad Men”). Shudder as he begins to realize that his   cough is a death sentence hidden from him by his own doctors and struggles with what that will mean for the British constitution and his own beloved family. The marvel of both Mr. Harris’s performance and Mr. Morgan’s versatile script is how much unspoken emotion is communicated to the audience. One of the most memorable scenes from the opening episodes is the king’s private conversation on a   excursion at Sandringham, the royals’ Norfolk estate, with his young    Prince Philip. Without ever hinting that his own health is failing, the king tries to explain to Philip in the gathering mist the burden of duty that awaits him now that he is married to the young woman who will be queen. “She is the job,” he tells a quizzical Philip with the intensity of impending death. “Loving her. Protecting her. ” And  her  —   Her Royal Highness  —   is the most refreshing moral counterpoint of all. Claire Foy’s young Elizabeth is luminously ordinary. In the first two episodes, Mr. Daldry achieves something unusual: He tells the story of Elizabeth II through the prism of being unprepared. Her character is formed by being forced to rise to an occasion. We see hints of her grounded certainties in her instant attraction to Philip. She wants this dazzlingly alpha young naval officer, who mocks the pomp of royal ceremony while always knowing how to observe it. No amount of family disapproval deters her. When the king, knowing he is too sick to undertake a monthslong commonwealth tour, asks her if she, a young mother of two, will take his place, she unhesitatingly agrees, despite Philip’s resistance to abandoning his own promising naval career. And what about the children? “They’re too young to notice,” she says firmly, a line that signifies her first acceptance of a lifetime’s distancing between her own desires and the needs of her country, along with the collateral damage that will inevitably follow. (I think of the famously poignant moment when the    Prince Charles greeted his mother after a   absence on a royal tour in 1953, not with a hug but a grave, extended handshake.) As Philip, Matt Smith (an erstwhile Doctor of “Doctor Who”) has great chemistry with Ms. Foy’s Elizabeth. He has just the right combination of rippling impatience and dangerous, masculine   for a consort whose loyalty is laced with a sometimes heedless power to cause her pain. The real triumph of the first two episodes of “The Crown” is the unerring emotional focus of Mr. Daldry, the director. He finds the heart in every scene and takes us into the interior world of people so famous and so familiar they have drained into stereotypes and gesture. He makes us care so much I winced every time the king dragged deeply on one of the lethal cigarettes to which he was addicted. In short, he discovers the royal family’s humanity. Anyone who has seen Mr. Daldry’s theatrical tour de force “Billy Elliot” or his flying fleet of Mary Poppinses at the opening ceremony of the London Olympics might expect the visual audacity he brings to his stage productions. And “The Crown” has plenty of that, from the jarring opening image of a toilet bowl flushing blood from the king’s diseased lungs to the soaring, saturated scenes in Westminster Abbey as the packed congregation sings “I Vow to Thee My Country” over a thundering organ. (Netflix’s    budget is, as they say, all up on the screen.) But Sam Spiegel once told me that the biggest challenge in making “Lawrence of Arabia” was “to not let the sand overwhelm the movie. ” Mr. Daldry could have let pageantry overwhelm “The Crown,” or allowed it to slide into costume drama. He avoids the sentimental clichés. When the young queen, far away with Philip in Kenya on the royal tour at the idyllic wildlife retreat Treetops, is brought the news that the king has died, Mr. Daldry does not give us her reaction. We see her as her aides would  —   at a distance, held in Philip’s embrace on the lawn. Nor do we see the grief of the dead king’s wife, suddenly the queen mother. Instead Mr. Daldry shows a household suddenly in motion as the news sweeps through Sandringham  —   first the shock, then the running, running through the corridors, the queen mother still in her nightdress, everyone running toward the death chamber except the queen’s younger sister, Princess Margaret, who stands in a stricken eddy of silence, her grief  : not only for the loss of her father, the king, but for fear she will also have to say goodbye to his closest aide, the married group captain Peter Townsend, with whom she has fallen hopelessly in love. It’s fair to say that, so far at least, “The Crown” is not a work of political or social history. It’s family history, and it’s a love story  —   more precisely, a series of overlapping love stories: between a father and a daughter, between a princess headed for greatness and her dashing prince, between another princess headed for heartbreak and her forbidden swain, and between a royal household and an adoring public. It shows us that public as the royals see it  —   again distantly, from palace balconies or through the windows of limousines and planes and luxuriously outfitted steam trains rushing through the peaceful beauty of the British countryside. Beyond the manicured gardens and immaculate driveways that surround the royals, and as invisible to us as it was to them, is a postwar Britain of drab,   streets and pale, exhausted Londoners clutching their ration books. If all goes as intended, these two enthralling episodes will be the opening chapters of an epic that promises to occupy viewers into the 2020s. “The Crown” has already been approved for two seasons of 10 episodes each. The plan is for each season to cover a decade in the life of the queen and her realm, with casts that change as the central characters age. My hope is that the show’s canvas will open up and out into the world as Elizabeth’s emerging   composure and moral clarity are tested by family and country into the 1960s and beyond, right through what is now the seventh decade of an extraordinary and still vibrant reign.