’  ’ ’   French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron’’s campaign said on   Friday it had been the target of a ”massive” computer hack that   dumped its campaign mails online    days before voters go to   the polls to choose between the centrist and his   rival   Marine Le Pen. ’ ’   Some nine gigabytes of data were posted by a user called EMLEAKS   to Pastebin, a   site that allows anonymous   posting. It was not immediately clear who was responsible for   posting the data or if any of them were genuine. ’ ”   In a statement, Macron’s political movement En Marche! (Onwards!)   confirmed that it had been hacked. ” ’   ”The En Marche! Movement has been the victim of a massive and     hack this evening which has given rise to the   diffusion on social media of various internal information,” the   statement said. ’ ’   An interior ministry official declined to comment, citing French   rules which forbid any commentary liable to influence an   election, and which took effect at midnight French time on Friday   (2200 GMT). ’ ’’ ’   Comments about the email dump began to appear on Friday evening   just hours before the official ban on campaigning began. The ban   is due to stay in place until the last polling stations close on   Sunday at 8 p. m. (1800 GMT). ’ ”   Opinion polls show independent centrist Macron is set to beat   National Front candidate Le Pen in Sunday’s second round of   voting, in what is seen to be France’s most important election in   decades. The latest surveys show him winning with about 62   percent of the vote. ” ”   Former economy minister Macron’s team has complained in the past   about attempts to hack its emails during a fraught campaign,   blaming Russian interests in part for the cyber attacks. ” ’   On April 26, the team said it had been the target of a series of   attempts to steal email credentials since January, but that the   perpetrators had so far failed to compromise any campaign data. ’ ”   In February, the Kremlin denied that it was behind any such   attacks, even though Macron’s camp renewed complaints against   Russian media and a hackers’ group operating in Ukraine. ” ’     In its statement on Friday, En Marche! said that the documents     released online showed only the normal functionings of a     presidential campaign, but that authentic documents had been     mixed on social media with fake ones to sow ”doubt and     misinformation”.   ’ ’     ”The seriousness of this event is certain and we shall not     tolerate that the vital interests of democracy be put at risk,”     it added.   ’ ’     The French presidential election campaign is not the first to     be overshadowed by accusations of manipulation via computer     hacking and  .   ’ ”     US intelligence agencies said in January that Russian President     Vladimir Putin had ordered hacking of the Democratic National     Committee and the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s Democratic     campaign to influence the election on behalf of Donald Trump,     her Republican rival who went on to win the US presidency.   ” ’     (Reporting by Eric Auchard in Frankfurt and Michel Rose and     Bate Felix in Paris; Writing by Andrew Callus; Editing by     Sandra Maler)   ’ ”French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’