’  ’ ’   Thousands of documents were    Emmanuel Macron, less than two days before the second round of   voting. ’ ”   On Sunday, centrist Macron will run against   candidate   Marine Le Pen. Macron had  though it’s not yet clear   how the hack with affect the vote. ” ”   Here’s what we know so far: ” ’   Macron’’s campaign confirmed on Friday night that it had been the   target of a ”massive” computer hack, after documents began   circulating on social media. ’ ’   The files, which include contracts, accounting documents, and   emails, were obtained ”several weeks ago” from the ”personal and   professional mailboxes of several party officials,” according to   a statement from Macron’’s En Marche! party. ’ ’’ ’   Around nine gigabytes of data were shared by an anonymous user   online on Friday. ’ ’   WikiLeaks, which said it was not responsible for the leak, posted   a link on Twitter to the documents, saying it ”contains many tens   of thousands (of) emails, photos, attachments up to April 24,   2017.” ’ ”   Macron’s campaign said in a statement that all the files were   lawful, but said that false documents were being mixed in with   authentic documents. ” ’   French election ”blackout” rules prohibit disseminating   information that might influence an election. ’ ”   Macron’s campaign issued a statement just minutes before the   blackout went into effect at midnight on Friday, local time. The   blackout will stay in place until the last polling stations close   on Sunday at 8 p. m. local time (7 p. m. GMT). ” ’   A spokesman for the French ministry said: ”Neither the ministry,   nor any other ministry would be commenting on this because   according to the law, campaigning has ended as of midnight.” ’ ”   The campaign has not said who is responsible, but immediate   suspicion has fallen on Russia, . However, Russia has denied it’s   behind the attack on Macron, . ” ”   The campaign also made a link to what happened to Hillary   Clinton’s campaign in the 2016 US presidential   election. Emails from Democratic Party officials appeared   online in the months leading up to Election Day. ” ”   In January,  and the   chairman of Hillary Clinton’s Democratic campaign in an attempt   to help Donald Trump win the election. ” ’   The French election campaign commission will hold a meeting on   Saturday morning to discuss the leaks, The Telegraph reports.   Separately, the electoral watchdog is looking into claims   made Friday night by the Le Pen campaign that . ’ ”   Macron’s campaign has  and to avoid   reporting on the text of the documents. ” ’Thousands of documents were released online. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’