’  ’ ”   One thing is certain after President Trump’s Trumpenomics   interview in : The   Goldman Sachs guys in the White House are acting exactly as   America feared they would. ” ”   Instead of teaching Trump about the benefits of     capitalism, they are sitting by as sycophants, listening to their   boss make misstep after misstep and cleaning up his messes behind   the scenes when it’s almost too late. One day, it might be. ” ”   Both Goldman Sachs vets Steve Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary,   and Gary Cohn, the White House economic adviser, sat in on this   embarrassing interview. Cohn said nothing. Mnuchin acted more   like a doting father watching his child have a tantrum in a   crowded store. All he could do was try to make sure Trump didn’t   knock down the displays  —   other than that, Trump was allowed to   make   proclamations as he wished. ” ”   An example: Trump once again waxed philosophical about how the   Chinese government stopped depressing the value of its currency   once he took office. That’s false. It has been propping up the   value of the yuan since 2014. ” ’   But what did Mnuchin say to that? ”Right, as soon as the   president got elected they went the other way.” ’ ’’ ’   At one point Mnuchin actually said ”Yep, yep,” like a cartoon   henchman. ’ ”   This is what everyone was afraid of. Trump may not know anything   about economics, but the Goldman guys certainly do. They have   spent their entire lives listening to economists like William   Dudley, the president of the New York Federal Reserve who just   this week gave a speech on the  repudiating Trump’s entire   protectionist agenda (yes, it’s protectionist, no matter what the   president pretends). ” ”   Instead of sharing their knowledge to improve Trump’s agenda,   both Cohn and Mnuchin seem to be playing to his ego. This is     egotistical, and reckless  —   exactly what people   think of when they think of Wall Street. It doesn’t help that   they also became the face of Trump’s hastily crafted tax agenda,   which experts say will serve the richest Americans better than   anyone else in the country. ” ’   To many, the name Goldman Sachs conjures Matt     images of a vampire squid wrapping its tentacles around the   global economy and squeezing  —   it represents the Swamp north of   Washington, the worst excesses of wealth and the power that comes   with it. ’ ’   But in reality the picture of the firm  —   and Wall Street  —   is   more complex than that. Goldman is mostly a company of   hardworking soldiers trying to get a pragmatic handle on complex   topics  —   economics and finance  —   that most of the world   approaches with apprehension or disdain. ’ ’   It was that pragmatism, and the fact that Mnuchin and Cohn are of   a more liberal political bent than their boss, that led some to   believe that they might serve as a moderating, educating force in   a White House full of ideologues. There were whispers that Cohn   and Mnuchin would defend capitalism and free markets from the   likes of protectionist trade adviser Peter Navarro. ’ ”   But that barely seems to be the case, and it’s clear they’re not   teaching Trump anything. Even though it has been reported that   elements of the White House came together to stop Trump from   signing a    they have allowed Trump to think it   was a coincidence that both the president of Mexico and the prime   minister of Canada called to cajole him out of it. ” ’   From the interview (emphasis ours): ’ ”   Trump will continue to fix what is unbroken by breaking it,   unless he learns more about economic policy. But it’s clear he   will not learn it from Cohn and Mnuchin. ” ”   Instead we must rely on Republicans who seems to be slowly waking   up to the fact that they’ve exchanged the ideals of their party   for a moment in power that is likely to embarrass them in the   annals of history. The president has given them more than enough   reason to oppose him, and they are beginning to do so. Republican   Sens. John McCain of Arizona and Ben Sasse of Nebraska have said   they will oppose Trump’s  based   on his opposition to NAFTA. ” ’   And why shouldn’’t they? They are dealing in facts, and they know   the treaty has been good to their states. The country needs   someone in place who understands that. Not someone like Commerce   Secretary Wilbur Ross, a businessman with no experience in policy   who waffles between saying the agreement . Not someone like   Trump, who said in the Economist interview: ”Everything in NAFTA   is bad. That’’s bad, everything’’s bad.” ’ ”   The president doesn’t know anything about economics, but we knew   that. He has demonstrated his ignorance time and time again  —   on   the campaign trail, in interviews, actually anywhere he’s ever   discussed the topic. ” ’   But Mnuchin and Cohn know better, and it is not enough for them   to work behind the scenes. They are not unpaid intern Ivanka   Trump. ’ ”   Their firm doesn’t deserve this either. After years of Goldman   attempting to remake its image after the financial crisis, this   will only serve to drag down the reputation of the firm once   again. There’s a reason former Goldman communications man Lucas   van Praag made his exit during the crisis  —   it’s because his   condescending combative air could no longer represent a firm that   wanted to project the idea that it was not entirely made up Wall   Street egomaniacs but also employed hardworking people trying to   do right by their jobs and by the markets. ” ’   Cohn and Mnuchin should do the same. ’ ”One thing is certain after President Trump’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’