’  ’ ”   A global cyber attack leveraging hacking tools believed to have   been developed by the U. S. National Security Agency has infected   tens of thousands of computers in nearly 100 countries,   disrupting Britain’s health system and global shipper FedEx. ” ’   Cyber extortionists tricked victims into opening malicious   malware attachments to spam emails that appeared to contain   invoices, job offers, security warnings and other legitimate   files. ’ ’   The ransomware encrypted data on the computers, demanding   payments of $300 to $600 to restore access. Security researchers   said they observed some victims paying via the digital currency   bitcoin, though they did not know what percent had given in to   the extortionists. ’ ’   Researchers with security software maker Avast said they had   observed 57, 000 infections in 99 countries, with Russia, Ukraine   and Taiwan the top targets. ’ ’   Asian countries reported no major breaches on Saturday, but   officials in the region were scrambling to check and the full   extent of the damage may not be known for some time. ’ ”   China’s official Xinhua news agency said some secondary schools   and universities had been affected, without specifying how many   or identifying them. ” ’   The most disruptive attacks were reported in Britain, where   hospitals and clinics were forced to turn away patients after   losing access to computers on Friday. ’ ’   International shipper FedEx Corp said some of its Windows   computers were also infected. ”We are implementing remediation   steps as quickly as possible,” it said in a statement. ’ ’  ’ ’   Only a small number of U. S.  organizations were hit   because the hackers appear to have begun the campaign by   targeting organizations in Europe, said Vikram Thakur, research   manager with security software maker Symantec. ’ ’   By the time they turned their attention to the United States,   spam filters had identified the new threat and flagged the     emails as malicious, Thakur added. ’ ”   Infections of the worm appeared to have fallen off significantly   after a security researcher bought a domain that the malware was   connecting to, by chance undermining the malware’s effectiveness. ” ’   Making the domain active appears to have stunted the spread of   the worm, Thakur said on Saturday. ’ ’   ”The numbers are extremely low and coming down fast,” he said,   while cautioning that any change in the original code could lead   the worm to flare up again. ’ ’   The U. S. Department of Homeland Security said late on Friday it   was aware of reports of the ransomware, was sharing information   with domestic and foreign partners and was ready to lend   technical support. ’ ’   Telecommunications company Telefonica was among many targets in   Spain, though it said the attack was limited to some computers on   an internal network and had not affected clients or services.   Portugal Telecom and Telefonica Argentina both said they were   also targeted. ’ ’   Private security firms identified the ransomware as a new variant   of ”WannaCry” that had the ability to automatically spread across   large networks by exploiting a known bug in Microsoft’’s Windows   operating system. ’ ’   The hackers, who have not come forward to claim responsibility or   otherwise been identified, likely made it a ”worm” or self   spreading malware, by exploiting a piece of NSA code known as   ”Eternal Blue” that was released last month by a group known as   the Shadow Brokers, researchers with several private cyber   security firms said. ’ ’   ”This is one of the largest global ransomware attacks the cyber   community has ever seen,” said Rich Barger, director of threat   research with Splunk, one of the firms that linked WannaCry to   the NSA. ’ ’   The Shadow Brokers released Eternal Blue as part of a trove of   hacking tools that they said belonged to the U. S. spy agency. ’ ’   Microsoft said it was pushing out automatic Windows updates to   defend clients from WannaCry. It issued a patch on March 14 to   protect them from Eternal Blue. ’ ’   ”Today our engineers added detection and protection against new   malicious software known as Ransom:Win32. WannaCrypt,” Microsoft   said in a statement on Friday, adding it was working with   customers to provide additional assistance. ’ ’  ’ ’   The spread of the ransomware capped a week of cyber turmoil in   Europe that began the previous week when hackers posted a trove   of campaign documents tied to French candidate Emmanuel Macron   just before a   vote in which he was elected president of   France. ’ ’   On Wednesday, hackers disrupted the websites of several French   media companies and aerospace giant Airbus. ’ ’   Also, the hack happened four weeks before a British general   election in which national security and the management of the     National Health Service (NHS) are important issues. ’ ”   Authorities in Britain have been braced for cyber attacks in the     to the vote, as happened during last year’s U. S. election   and on the eve of the French vote. ” ’   But those attacks   blamed on Russia, which has repeatedly denied   them   followed a different modus operandi involving penetrating   the accounts of individuals and political organisations and then   releasing hacked material online. ’ ”   On Friday, Russia’s interior and emergencies ministries, as well   as its biggest bank, Sberbank, said they were targeted. The   interior ministry said on its website that about 1, 000 computers   had been infected but it had localized the virus. ” ’   The emergencies ministry told Russian news agencies it had   repelled the cyber attacks while Sberbank said its cyber security   systems had prevented viruses from entering its systems. ’ ’  ’ ’   Although cyber extortion cases have been rising for several   years, they have to date affected    sized   organisations, disrupting services provided by hospitals, police   departments, public transport systems and utilities in the United   States and Europe. ’ ’   ”Seeing a large telco like Telefonica get hit is going to get   everybody worried. Now ransomware is affecting larger companies   with more sophisticated security operations,” said Chris Wysopal,   chief technology officer with cyber security firm Veracode. ’ ’   The news is also likely to embolden extortionists when selecting   targets, Chris Camacho, chief strategy officer with cyber   intelligence firm Flashpoint, said. ’ ’   In Spain, some big firms took   steps to thwart   ransomware attacks following a warning from the National   Cryptology Centre of ”a massive ransomware attack”. ’ ”   Iberdrola and Gas Natural, along with Vodafone’s unit in Spain,   asked staff to turn off computers or cut off internet access in   case they had been compromised, representatives from the firms   said. ” ’   The attacks did not disrupt the provision of services or networks   operations of the victims, the Spanish government said in a   statement.  ’ ’A global cyber attack leveraging hacking tools. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’