’  ’ ”   A growing number of Democrats have said they will refuse to   nominate a new FBI director until the deputy attorney general   appoints a special prosecutor to investigate potential ties   between President Donald Trump’s campaign and Russia. ” ’   During an interview on Sunday on ”State of the Union,” CNN anchor   Jake Tapper asked Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer if he   supported the idea, floated by Senate Intelligence Committee vice   chairman Mark Warner. ’ ’   ”I think there are a lot of Democrats who feel that way,” Schumer   said. ”We’’ll have to discuss it as a caucus, but I would support   that move.” ’ ”   The New York senator said a special prosecutor would be able to   investigate whether there were any attempts to thwart other   existing investigations into Trump’s ties to Russia. ” ’   ”People would breathe a sigh of relief because then there would   be a real independent person overlooking the FBI director,”   Schumer said. ”The key is to get some of our Republican   colleagues to support it.” ’ ’’ ”   Schumer and Warner aren’t the only Democrats who have endorsed   the idea in the wake of Trump’s decision to fire former FBI   director James Comey amid the escalating investigation into   Trump’s potential Russia ties. ” ’   Speaking at the Common Good forum in New York on Friday, Sen.   Kirsten Gillibrand said Trump’’s firing cast a dark shadow over   the investigation, and she urged Republicans to ”join in calling   for an independent prosecutor in Trump campaign’’s connections   with Russia.” ’ ’   ”I believe that we should not actually vote on an FBI Director   replacement until there is a special prosecutor,” Gillibrand   said. ”I think it’’s really important. Because what is happening   is a subversion of justice.” ’ ’   Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein could appoint a special   counsel, who could subpoena documents and potentially seek   criminal charges, but  be fired by the president. ’ ’   An  released Sunday morning   found that 78% of Americans want a special prosecutor or   independent commission to take over the Russia investigation,   while just 15% said Congress could handle it. ’ ”   But Republicans have yet to get onboard. GOP leaders in Congress,   including House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader   Mitch McConnell, have resisted appointing their own special   counsel or commission to investigate, saying ongoing   investigations within the FBI and House and Senate committees   into Russia’s attempt to influence the 2016 election were enough. ” ’   ”I think the intelligence committees are the ones that should do   this, because, don’’t forget that the methods and sources of our   intelligence gathering are also at play here, and we have to be   very sensitive so that we don’’t compromise that information as   well,” Ryan  referencing Trump’’s complaints about   leaks of information from law enforcement and intelligence   agencies. ’ ’A growing number of Democrats have said they. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’