’  ’ ’   About an hour after the  it brought on former FBI   Director Robert Mueller as special   counselRepublican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah   hopped on Twitter to answer questions from his constituents   via video. ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s an interesting use of social media video, particularly live   video, which has been hailed as the next big thing for social   media. But it’s also been full of problems. On the one hand,   for typical folks, video just isn’t compelling. It’s only   interesting if there’s something interesting to   watch. On the other extreme are the live videos of people   doing horrific things, like torture or murder. ” ”   But as the nation sits on pins and needles over the   endless drama from the White House these days, Lee’s use of   Twitter is an interesting   for live video: as a way of   being in touch with our representatives. ” ”   Now, there’s a caveat to this, of course. Lee has been doing     hall meetings for years  ” ”   It’s easy to make an argument that doing online meetings instead   of   ones is a wrong choice, and an elected official has   an obligation to come home and talk to his constituents       —   not through a medium where the politician can   control the exchange, answering   questions. Online   meetings like this also mean that politicians don’t   have to look people in the eye who would be impacted   by their legislation. ” ’   But as an additional way to interact with people, particularly   immediately after big political news breaks, live     video could be a great thing for a democracy. It can   give folks a way to ask questions and hear from their   representative immediately, seeing their faces and hearing   their voice, rather than reading carefully crafted statements. ’ ”   Here’s the   of Sen. Lee answering a question about   whether he would support impeachment if the investigation into   Trump’s Russia ties finds the president guilty of a crime. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t2nd Q from tonght   ”If an investigation uncovers that President is guilty of Obstruction of Justice, will you support impeachment?”  ’ ’About an hour after the US Justice Department. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’