’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   But what exactly is a special prosecutor, how does he or she get   appointed, and what happens next? We broke it down.   ’ ’  ’ ’   A special counsel could be appointed by either Attorney General   Jeff Sessions himself or by Congress to   investigate  ’ ’   A ”special counsel” is a modern day term for a ”special   prosecutor,” according to Banks, and any investigation would   likely use the term ”special counsel.” The term ”special   prosecutor” was used up through the 1980s, after which the laws   around special prosecutors expired and were not renewed,   therefore retiring the term. ’ ”   After revelations of previously undisclosed conversations with   Russia’s ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, Sessions recused   himself from investigations relating to the 2016 campaign. ” ’     ’ ’  ’ ’ The   appointment of a special counsel by the attorney general or   deputy attorney general is ”unreviewable,” . ’ ’ in the   Senate and House intelligence committees, but Banks said he   believes it is unlikely a special counsel would be   created until those investigations conclude.  ’ ’   The other way to establish an independent counsel goes through   Congress. ’ ’   Congress could initiate the process to create a different   independent counsel for investigations by passing a law, as it   did in 1978, when the Ethics in Government Act was passed.   The law dictated that a   panel  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Special counsels tend to be highly respected lawyers or judges.   Examples, according to Banks, include: highly experienced private   practice lawyers, retired judges, and former Justice Department   prosecutors. ’ ’   A special counsel investigation would likely take between six to   nine months, according to Banks, who said that such   investigations tend to be extremely complicated by nature. With   so much classified information, intelligence agency officials   that need to be interviewed, and hard to obtain information, it   takes a while to sort out. ’ ’   A special counsel investigation would involve arranging access to   classified documents. This could be achieved by either   declassifying information or creating clearance to classified   documents for the purpose of the investigation only. If the   latter is done, it is unlikely the public would see the documents   obtained. ’ ’   A special counsel would also be expected to interview a vast   range of people with knowledge of or connection to the   investigation. ’ ’  ’ ’   In the case of the   allegations, a special counsel   would look into  ’ ”   This would include human or digital intelligence, and  delivered by British intelligence. Extensive   interviews would be run with anyone close to the situation,   including Trump’s inner circle, and anyone who had access to   digital or technical related information, said Banks. The special   counsel themselves would ultimately determine which evidence to   use. ” ’   What happens next depends in part on who appoints a special   counsel. Sessions would decide whether the special counsel   appointed under him had enough evidence to prosecute Trump or   implicated officials.  ’ ’   If Congress created an office for an independent or special   counsel, it is likely that the counsel would refer results of the   investigation to Congress, though that could change depending on   the legislation passed. If Congress initiated an investigation   through a commission or committee, it would fall to the attorney   general to decide whether to prosecute based on the results   provided. ’ ’   Trump and his inner circle have been accused of having close ties   to Russia. The White House has denied many of those accusations.   Business Insider has  that: ’ ’ Michelle Mark contributed reporting on this article. ’ ’The Justice Department announced Wednesday it. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’