’  ’ ”   A driver crashed his car into pedestrians on the sidewalk in New   York City’s Times Square on Thursday. ” ’   The  said that the car ”” and confirmed that the man was in custody. ’ ’   An investigation is underway, the  though it is ”believed to be an isolated incident.” ’ ’   The New York City Fire Department    that one person has died and 19 people are being treated for   injuries. ’ ’   It’’s unclear whether the incident was a terror attack,   though initial speculation was that it was accidental. New York   City Councilman Corey Johnson    that he’’s hearing it was ”unintentional.”  ’ ’   Terrorists have used vehicles to crash into crowds in England and   France in the past year. ’ ’   A witness told Business Insider that she heard the driver scream   before the crash. The  the driver appeared to be   intoxicated. ’ ’ ’ ’  confirms updated patient count at Times Square motor vehicle incident   19 injuries, 1 fatality’t’t’ ’   New York Governor Andrew Cuomo  being briefed. White House Press Secretary Sean   Spicer    President Donald Trump is aware of the incident, and ”will   continue to receive updates.” NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio is    to the scene. ’ ’   It was 90 degrees Fahrenheit on Thursday and Times Square was   full of people. Seventh Avenue is closed in both directions   from West 42 Street to West 57th Street, according to . ’ ’   News of the incident quickly spread on social media: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tWhat’s happening in Times Square??  This car was in the sidewalk and people are on the streets  ” ’ ’t’t’tTimes Square just went nuts. People screaming and running, the place is swarming with emergency vehicles and cops. People injured. WTF  ’ ’ ’t’t’tAt least one person killed by vehicle in Tiimes Square.  Body covered with blanket, blood.  Multiple others injured.   Ambulances on scene. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tPeople don’’t know ”what it is” or ”why it happened.” Kids were crying. ’t’t’ ’ This story is developing. Check back for updates. ’ ’A driver crashed his car into pedestrians on. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’