’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump told Russian diplomats in   an Oval Office meeting last week that his firing of ”nut   job” FBI Director James Comey had taken ”great pressure” off of   him, . ’ ’   An American official read the comments, from a White House   document summarizing the meeting with Russian Foreign Minister   Sergey Lavrov and Ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak, to The   Times. White House press secretary Sean Spicer did not dispute   the comments. ’ ’   ”I just fired the head of the FBI. He was crazy, a real nut job,”   Trump said, according to The Times. ”I faced great pressure   because of Russia. That’’s taken off. ’ ’   ”I’’m not under investigation,” he added. ’ ”   The conversation happened on May 10, a day after    who had been overseeing the FBI’s investigation into whether   Trump campaign operatives colluded with Russian officials to   interfere in the 2016 presidential election.  Trump revealed to the Russians highly classified   intelligence on ISIS that the US had not even shared with close   allies. That intelligence was later reported to have come from   Israel. ” ’’ ’   Speaking to NBC News’’ Lester Holt on May 11, Trump mentioned the   Russia investigation when explaining why he fired Comey, whom he   called a ”showboat” and a ”grandstander.” ’ ’   ”When I decided to just do it, I said to myself  —   I said, you   know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a     story,” he said. ’ ’   Trump also said Comey assured him on three occasions that he was   not personally under investigation, including at a January dinner   in which Trump  to pledge his loyalty to him. ’ ’   Earlier this week, The Times reported that Comey    of his conversations with Trump, including one from a February   meeting in which Trump suggested he ”let go” of the investigation   into Michael Flynn, the former national security adviser, who had   resigned the day before.  the request could constitute obstruction of justice, the   charge that led President Richard Nixon to resign. ’ ’   On Wednesday, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed a   special counsel, former FBI Director Robert Mueller, to oversee   the FBI’’s Russia investigation. Trump on Thursday  of ”the single greatest witch hunt of a politician   in American history!” ’ ’   The White House document read to The Times was based on notes   taken during the meeting. It was circulated as the official   account. ’ ’   ”By grandstanding and politicizing the investigation into   Russia’’s actions, James Comey created unnecessary pressure on our   ability to engage and negotiate with Russia,” Spicer told The   Times. ”The investigation would have always continued, and   obviously, the termination of Comey would not have ended it. Once   again, the real story is that our national security has been   undermined by the leaking of private and highly classified   conversations.” ’ ’   Another government official who spoke to The Times said Trump was   using a ”negotiating tactic” with Lavrov when he explained the   ”pressure” he faced. ’ ’   The Times wrote: ”The idea, the official suggested, was to create   a sense of obligation with Russian officials and to coax   concessions out of Mr. Lavrov  —   on Syria, Ukraine, and other   issues  —   by saying that Russian meddling in last year’’s election   had created enormous political problems for Mr. Trump.” ’ ’President Donald Trump told Russian. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’