’  ’ ”   Gretchen Carlson was the first woman at Fox News to publicly   accuse former Chairman and CEO Roger Ailes of sexual harassment,   but she definitely wasn’t the last. ” ’   Ailes  at age 77. ’ ’   In her memoir ”,” Fox News host Megyn Kelly described how women at   the network secretly banded together to share their stories with   investigators, ultimately ousting Ailes in July 2016. ’ ”   Kelly also accused  when she had just started as a   reporter in Fox’s D. C. bureau in the book, a charge he   strongly denied. Years later, a friend of hers at the   network told her about a similar experience. ” ’   After  and Fox began investigating   the charges, Kelly wrote that she and her friend agreed to tell   the investigators the truth if they were interviewed, and began   quietly asking around if more women had experienced harassment   from Ailes. ’ ’   ”She was a fearless soldier in what would become an underground   army of women  —   those resolved to be honest about his behavior,”   Kelly wrote. ’ ”   But when Kelly found out the Ailes investigation would be limited   so she wouldn’t get questioned, she wrote, she decided to come   forward, and told Lachlan Murdoch, heir of the network’s parent   company 21st Century Fox, what happened to her. Ailes found out,    and  started telling Kelly their stories. ” ’   ”I had become aware of many other victims  —   the underground   soldiers were finding each other  —   including some women who were   still being harassed by him in deeply unsettling ways,”   she wrote. ”I figured if sharing my name with Roger would help   the others stay anonymous, so be it.” ’ ’   By July 21,  despite continuing to deny the allegations   against him. ’ ’   He went on to . Carlson    with Ailes and 21st Century Fox for $20   million in September. ’ ’  ’ ’   Throughout the book, Kelly expresses gratitude to Ailes for   giving her so many chances to advance her career, and writes that   she looked to him as a mentor. But she explains how she felt she   had to come forward with the other women who said they   experienced sexual harassment from Ailes’’ too, even though this   ”army” had to stay ”underground.” ’ ’   ”Somehow, they found the courage to risk it all. They want their   anonymity, and I will respect their wishes, but as a result, they   will never get the credit they deserve,” Kelly wrote. ”All I can   say is, I am incredibly proud of each and every one of them.” ’ ’   ”” was on the  months after it debuted on November   15, 2016. Kelly’’s new show on NBC News premieres in . ’ ’Gretchen Carlson was the first woman at Fox. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’