’’ ”Maybe you’re touring the US as a citizen out to see your homeland. Or maybe you’re coming from afar to see what America has to offer. Either way, you probably want to make the most of your travels. ” ’While some tourist spots across the country have become  others are just disappointing tourist traps. Some are blatant attempts to make money, others are plain weird, but either way, they should be avoided at all costs.’ ’Save your time, money, and sanity by skipping these 50 tourist traps. ’ ’This miniature city was built out of cement and trash by brother Joseph (formerly Michael Zoettl) a hunchbacked Benedictine monk. The little village is often referred to as’ ’’ ’ ’ ’Did you really come this far, to  to see a fake little Christmas village?’ ’On top of that, the North Pole is freezing in the winter, and actually really hot in the summer, and swarming with mosquitos.’ ”Of course it sounds cool to technically be in New Mexico, Colorado, and Utah, all at the same time, but you’ll find yourself in the middle of nowhere, far away from anywhere you’d ever want to be, in a sweltering desert, and all you’ll have to show for it is a cheesy photo. EVEN BETTER, it’s really just a brass,   disk  of those four states.” ” only source of natural diamonds in the US that’s open to the public  —    the reality is a 3of dirt. It’s been open since 1906, so the chances of finding a diamond seem pretty slim to us.” ’The Hollywood walk of fame has become one of the biggest hotspots for tourists visiting California. Sadly, the stars that celebrities are so proud of are on a dirty, crowded sidewalk, surrounded by tacky street performers, and far from anything else worth a visit. ’ ”Sure, it’s the grave of one of the world’s most famous cowboys  —   and outstanding hunter and accomplished showman  —   but a grave is a grave is a grave.” ”Plus, the  opened in 1921, and hasn’t changed much since.” ’People from all over the country stop at this  ’ ’Not technically overrated, but certainly overcrowded, Rehoboth Beach’’s boardwalk makes this list for being   with tourists, and   of tchotke’’s aimed at them. Apparently, finding a parking spot is about as rare as spotting a unicorn, and many complain about inflated prices, and call the boardwalk ”average,” or even ”extremely average. ”’ ’Of the four Disney parks in Lake Buena Vista, Florida,  is easily the most underwhelming. Unless you’’re a college student looking to ”drink around the world” (for hundreds of dollars nonetheless) this theme park offers nothing. ’ ’The experiences at each country in the park focus only on the most basic stereotypes of each culture, and the few rides this park has are disappointing to most children. ’ ”This huge tourist attraction in the middle of Atlanta brings in millions of visitors every year. Guests can see how the soda is bottled, take their picture with the famous polar bear, and taste several of the company’s other drinks. ” ”The tickets aren’t too costly, with adult prices at $17 and children’s at $13, but battling the overwhelming crowds and long lines just to walk through what is essentially a huge advertisement, is downright silly. ” ’Waikiki was basically designed with tourists in mind, and is a strip of luxury hotels, expensive stores, and chain restaurants flanked by an overcrowded beach. It looks like most of the rest of America, and is not representative of the stunning,  really is.’ ’While the name evokes a surreal,   landscape, the reality does not quite live up to it.’ ”While it is quite pretty, it’s only interesting for about 10 minutes. After all, how much time can you spend ogling volcanic rocks?” ”We’re not sure what’s so magnificent about a street that has a few shops and restaurants, but hey.” ”With surprisingly little memorabilia on display and in dire need of a renovation, you’ll be in and out of  which pays homage to student athletes, in 30 minutes or less. If you want to learn about Hoosier basketball, you’re better off heading 50 miles east to the  in New Castle.” ’Trekkies the world over make the trek to this tiny town in Iowa, to a private yard behind a small house, to look at a   plaque commemorating the ”Future Birthplace of Captain James T. Kirk, Karch 22, 2228. ”’ ’Now obviously that’’s not true, since ”Star Trek” is fiction, but to add insult to injury, it was really just the doing of an intrepid Trekkie mayor who, upon reading ”Making of Star Trek,” saw that Kirk would be born in an unnamed small town in Iowa. He figured, ’’Why not Riverside? ’’ and plopped the plaque in the middle of town, declared it Kirk’’s future birthplace, and the rest, as they say, is history (or the future).’ ’It’s a ball of twine.’ ’Last year, this   arc and  opened in Williamstown, Kentucky. The grounds feature a zip line, because what would a biblical theme park be without one?’ ’The fact that this attraction is an ode to one of the most famous biblical stories ever isn’t the trap, though. It’s their outrageous prices that should make you think twice: tickets are $40 per adult and $28 per child, and zip lining costs at least $50 on top of that.’ ”New Orleans is a beautiful, historic town filled with culture, and Bourbon Street just doesn’t do it justice. It’s essentially like Cancun during Spring Break  —   neon signs advertising cheap, tacky bars line a street that’s full of drunk people throwing plastic beads at your head  —   when they aren’t throwing up.” ”You’re better off going to a jazz bar or something that will let you drink and experience a little local culture.” ’ ’ ”Despite its appearance, this block of land is not actually desert. The empty plot is a glacial silt surrounded by thousands of Maine’s pine trees. People can gawk at the natural phenomenon that created a desert in the middle of New England, but with plaster camels and plastic   souvenirs, it’s hard to imagine what draws in . ” ’There are several  ”museums” all over the country. However, in a historical city like Baltimore where there is actual art and history to see, it’’s baffling why anyone would spend time in a place full of replicas and gimmicks. ’ ’ ’ ”Sure, it’s been open since 1742, but these days it’s a glorified food court teeming with tourists that sells mediocre food and tacky souvenirs. Do like a local and avoid it.” ’’ ” is the largest shopping center in America, with 520 stores and so many square feet that the Yankee Stadium could fit inside of it nine times. But there’s much more to do than just shop  —   there’s an indoor theme park, a miniature golf course, and and aquarium  —   but all that adds up to is sensory overload.” ’The fact that it is crowded with hundreds of tourists each and every day ( makes it all the worse. ’ ”It’s a two room shack. The King may have been born there, but it’s no palace. ” ’This giant pile of rocks is essentially a mound of nuclear waste.’ ”To be precise, it’s 1. 5 million cubic yards of hazardous waste entombed to create a small mountain that marks the spot that was home to the country’s largest explosives factory turned uranium ore processing plant until 1966. After being left abandoned for over two decades, the US Department of Energy decided to cover it with rocks. Now, it features a museum and covered up ” ”This Montana bar is home to over 50, 000 silver dollars, and thus one of the largest coin collections in America. There’s also a motel, tons of RV parking, a casino, and Montana’s largest gift shop.” ”This quirky roadside site is  though it’s little more than 39 cars stacked to resemble England’s famous Stonehenge. ” ”Sadly, this isn’t the only ode to Stonehenge you’ll see on this list.” ”While the entire city of Las Vegas could arguably be considered a tourist trap, the one place you should really steer clear of while you’re there is .” ’It might sound romantic, but once you see the gamblers and shoppers strolling by as you float through what is essentially a shopping mall in a chlorine blue pool water for less than 15 minutes, you might think differently. Even worse,  a p’ ”Locals who have been going here for years seem to love it (and the fact that it hasn’t changed at all). However, tourists who don’t feel the nostalgia will likely feel differently. ” ’ bumper boats, Segways, and a steam train, but their money maker is the trained bear shows, which many consider ethically questionable. ’ ”Like a   Vegas, Atlantic City’s good ole days are long gone. All that’s left are gaudy casinos, tacky souvenirs, and overpriced taffy.” ’The town of Roswell prides itself in being the alleged site of an  in 1947, and has created an entire tourist industry around it.’ ”The town is now a giant gimmick, where everything that could possibly be shaped like an alien or UFO, is. It’s full of creepy alien toys, and all of them pretty low budget.” ”Locals avoid this spot at all costs, and so should you. Not only is it overcrowded, it’s also full of expensive souvenirs and tacky chain restaurants that you can find anywhere else in the country.” ’The views of the ’ ’It costs $10 dollars per person to visit, which might not break the bank, but why pay anything at all for a view you could see for free? ’ ”This collection of scrap metal sculptures stretches across 32 miles on a southern North Dakota highway. You’ll see giant grasshoppers, families of fish, towering humans, and an   eye made of geese (yup). If you happen to be driving down the road, it might ease some road trip boredom, but it’s certainly nothing to drive out of the way for.  ” ’There are hundreds of ways you can celebrate the holidays. Waiting in a line and paying money to see the filming location of ”A Christmas Story” should not be one of them. While the movie may be great, the basic house it was filmed in and the museum dedicated to it aren’’t anything to stop your car for. ’ ’A majority of the ~50, 000 artifacts in the museum are firearms from a private collection that dates back to the 14th century. The West might have been wild, but this glorified gun museum is wilder.’ ”This underwater room holds tourists for about half an hour as they watch divers interact with the natural wildlife. The realistic view (murky water and five fish, if you’re lucky) is hardly worth paying for, especially when there are sea lions right above the surface that you don’t even need to pay to see. ” ”This American history classic is the definition of underwhelming. After learning about it year after year in school, you’d think it’d be a large, spectacular bell. In reality, it’s small and broken, not to mention surrounded by tourists. ” ’If you have an affinity for mysterious landmarks, then you might enjoy the tiny tower that sits in the middle of Newport. ’ ”Unfortunately for most, these mysterious remains aren’t that exciting. No one really knows who built it, but legend says that it was the Vikings, which would make it one of the oldest buildings in America. Most beg to differ. Either way, the speculating gets old quick.” ’South of the Border is nothing more than a large gift shop and adjoining restaurant. The ”attraction” sits right below the border that separates North and South Carolina, and is intentionally tacky.’ ”This blatant tourist trap  but how they do it is a mystery. The drugstore turned makeshift mall became famous for offering free ice water back in 1931, and doesn’t charge for attractions such as their snake pit and giant road side sculptures (see the dino, above). They do reel in tourists and road trippers with over 300 billboards throughout the state, though. ” ’ ’ ’Elvis was a true prodigy, but touring his house for a minimum of $30 is a strange way to honor him. While the grounds are beautiful, there are far better ways to spend your time in Tennessee. ’ ”Remember the Alamo? More like, spend a day at the Alamo and you’ll remember to never go back. The building’s remains are so small they consistently disappoint visitors. ” ’History buffs might get a kick out of it for an hour or so, but looking at a picture will suffice for most. ’ ’The sandstone erosion ”cave” is touted as an ancient landmark and natural history museum, but it’’s not even a cave that was built or used by Native Americans. ’ ”Even if you don’t mind the ruse, people who have been claim that it’s just a glorified gift shop. ” ”You can tour this giant granite quarry for a small price, but looking down into a hole that isn’t the Grand Canyon is hardly worth it. The tour is provided by a company that mostly makes tombstones, which puts a damper on everything, and their gift shop sells overpriced granite gifts and jewelry.” ’ ’ ’Like Stonehenge, but styrofoam. No further explanation necessary.’ ”This brick wall attraction near Seattle’s Pike Place Market was covered in 15 years worth of gum until 2015, when it was removed to preserve the brick. The tradition of sticking used, germy chewing gum on the wall picked back up shortly after, and it is now almost back to its original, grimy glory. ” ’For $34 a person, you can see where all the beloved (and not so beloved) politicians in America would have lived  . The bunkers,  at first, opened for tours in 1995 after someone spilled the beans about the secret hiding place. ’ ”The idea is pretty cool, but there’s no real need to spend 90 whole minutes and over $30 for a tour of wooden bunk beds, canned food, and white cinder block walls. ” ”Wisconsin is known for its amazing cheese, and really, anything involving cheese can do no wrong. However, Mars Cheese Castle, which beckons tourists driving down   is a pretty obvious trap. The gaudy building should be warning enough, but if it isn’t, the inflated prices on the hundreds of cheeses, sausages, condiments, and crackers they sell might be.” ’Despite it being an obvious tourist trap, .   ’ ’This old prison is basically a museum of torture the whole family can enjoy. It’’s no Alcatraz, but tour guides do let you sit in old gas chambers and see the ”Punishment Pole,” both of which will likely cause nightmares. ’ ”Maybe you’re touring the US as a citizen. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’