’  ’ ”   On an ordinary work day in   a handful of Facebook   engineers were sitting on the couches in a corner of the   company’s Menlo Park, California, headquarters when one of   them tossed out a wacky idea. ” ’   He suggested doing something that had never been done before and   could potentially upend the  ’ ’   ”It can’’t be so difficult to build our own system,” the   engineer said, referring to the telecom equipment that   sends data across cables and wireless networks, and which   the engineer suspected could be made to operate faster   and cheaper than the pricey equipment sold by big   vendors like Nortel, Huawei, Ericsson, Cisco or Juniper   Networks. ’ ’   The engineer was suggesting building the telecom industry’’s   first ”white box” transponder, made with    parts   such as chips from Broadcom and Acacia Communications,   optical equipment from Lumentum, and software from one of   the many new networking startups cropping up these days. ’ ”   Facebook’s, who was among those on the couch that day, was   at first a naysayer. ” ’   ”I was a little bit skeptical about it at the time,” he recounted   to Business Insider. As a former  ’ ’  ’ ”   Still,  agreed to help this tiny   group hack together a white box system at one of Facebook’s   famous hackathons. Three months later they had a working   prototype. Six months later, on November 1,  as a real product called   Voyager.  ” ’  ’ ’   While the effort is essentially a   for Facebook, a   social networking company whose    business is   online advertising, the stakes could not be higher for the   telecom equipment companies which risk seeing their specialized   products reduced to interchangeable commodities and their   influence diminished.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Voyager has already been tested by Facebook and European telecom   company Telia over Telia’s    network.   Plus, German telecom equipment maker ADVA Optical Networking   is manufacturing the device and, as  out for   their telecom needs, a mix of big telecom companies and   enterprises, it said. And Paris based telecom provider, Orange is   also testing the device, working with Equinix and African   telecom company MTN. ’ ’   ”We pulled it off essentially showing that when a few engineers   can build a system within six months, the world has changed,”   Schmidtke said. ’ ’   One person told us that Schmidtke, who is insanely proud of   Voyager, has become a star in his own corner of the tech   world. When he and his team ”go to conferences, they treat him   like a tech celebrity, like a rock band,”   that person said. ’ ”   Voyager was the first product, and a major proving point, for   Facebook’s young Telecom Infrastructure Project (TIP) a   consortium led by Facebook and launched at the industry’s   worldwide gathering, Mobile World Congress, on February 21, 2016. ” ’  ’ ’   TIP is a   from a similar organization Facebook launched a   few years ago called the  ’ ’   Facebook launched OCP and TIP because it had to take control over   the technology it uses to support over 1. 8 billion people   uploading billions of photos, videos and updates every day. ’ ’   It has been designing its own IT equipment for years, things like   computer servers, hard   systems and data center   networks. Its versions were cheaper to build and easier to   maintain than standard gear made by companies like Dell, HP, EMC   and Cisco, it says.  ’ ”   Lots of big internet companies build their own tech,   including Amazon and Google. But Facebook is unusual in that   it openly shares all the designs, literally gives them all away   for free, inviting anyone at any other company to come work on   them, with contract manufacturers standing by to sell it   all. It’s a concept called open source hardware. ” ’   In this way, Facebook gets lots of help in maintaining and   advancing its infrastructure. And the rest of the world gets   access to tech designed to work in the most demanding   circumstances, like at a huge internet company. ’ ”   OCP has radically changed the data center tech industry and   those involved say it has created a   following. For   instance, when secretive Apple refused to join OCP to let its IT   engineers collaborate with others, it’s crew of network engineers   quit their jobs. They turned around and launched a startup called   SnapRoute and built network software for the OCP   community, . Apple later joined OCP. SnapRoute wound up   being the software chosen for Voyager. ” ’   OCP created so much competetion for hardware   vendors like Hewlett Packard and Dell that they opted to   join the organization and embrace the white box concept. The   alternative was to be squeezed out of selling their products to   companies with the biggest and   data centers in   the world, not just Facebook, but Microsoft, Goldman Sachs    ’ ”   There was just one major area that had been somewhat left out of   OCP’s free and open source hardware revolution, the   telecommunications part. That’s the equipment that connects   homes, businesses and data centers together across long   distances, via undersea cables, wireless networks, and so on. ” ’  ’ ”   And the big telecom companies, those that spend millions of   dollars a year on this gear, wanted in. They needed an OCP of   their own, Facebook discovered when it launched its Internet. org,   CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s project to bring internet to underdeveloped   countries. ” ’   ”As we were thinking about Internet. org and helping get more   people connected, the idea was, we’’re doing this thing called OCP   to help the data center community to build infrastructure that’’s   more efficient, more cost effective, that’’s greener and more   sustainable, more flexible. And we said, can we do that   for the telco industry?” said Facebook’’s VP of engineering   Jay Parikh. ’ ’   ”Facebook, having learned from OCP, comes in and says, we can   play maybe a catalyzing   function,”  said, describing early   meetings he and his crew had at Mobile World Congress. ”We’’re   investing our people and our dollars into technology that is   going to solve these problems and we’’re going to contribute that   technology, that IP [intellectual property] into the ecosystem so   that you all can benefit from this.” ’ ’   Voyager is one big example. ”That’’s something we developed   and it’’s like, wow, we actually solved a problem that a bunch of   operators seem to be struggling with,” he said. ’ ’ faster, cheaper and   more open equipment and were inspired by Facebook to take it   into their own hands. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The idea all started from Facebook. Mark Zuckerberg was always   addressing the importance of connecting the   unconnected,”  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   While Zuck didn’’t do the actual recruiting to get TIP off the   ground, he ”inspired people” Choi said. ’ ’Choi liked the idea so much, he became   the chairman of the TIP organization. ’ ’   It felt revolutionary. ’ ’   OCP has invented lots of cool new hardware for the data   center and telecom operators had never banded together to build   their own gear, he said. ’ ’   ”Operators rely too much on the big telco incumbent vendors. We   kept pushing the vendors to do more innovations, to do something   to bring down their premium price tag. They are making efforts   and making progress but not as fast as we want them to be. So   what can you do? You explore other opportunities,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’We are facing exponential traffic growth,” explains   DT’’s  ”We needed to do something.” ’ ”   And there’s one more issue going on besides tight budgets and   huge growth, he said: the war for talent. Decades ago, hardware   and communications engineers went to the telcos to build amazing   new things, like mobile networks. Then they went to the tech   companies like Cisco to build the tech that created the internet.   Today, they are going directly to the internet companies like   Google and Facebook and creating new hardware so they don’t have   to rely on the vendors, he said. ” ’   TIP gives them a way to access the smartest minds, without having   to poach them. ’ ’   ”When [engineers] come out of the universities, which companies   are they looking at? In old days, it was the telcos, then it was   the suppliers, now it’’s the internet companies. The funny thing   is with OCP, you have all these parties working together. I   envision achieving the same [with TIP]. So having players from   internet companies, from startups and established vendors, and   the telcos, working together on what the infrastructure of   the future should look like.” ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   Telecom devices that can be put together with standard parts   and software are deeply threatening to the multibillion telecom   equipment market dominated by companies like Huawei   Technologies, Ericsson, Cisco, ZTE, and Nokia. ’ ’  ’ ”   And Voyager isn’t the only product. TIP’s OpenCellular project is   working on an open source 4G   base station, the hardware   and the software.    ” ’   As SKT’’s Choi describes it, TIP wants to ”democratize” the   technology, making it easier for anyone to build, use, or modify.   That means taking it out of the hands of the equipment providers   who create proprietary radios and base stations today. ’ ”   TIP’s impact won’t happen overnight, explains analyst Rohit   Mehra, vice president of IDC’s Network Infrastructure practice.   But the goal is clear: to overhaul the telecom equipment   industry which he says is about a $350 billion market today, when   factoring in software, hardware and services. ” ’   ”This is not the first time Facebook has done this. They’’ve been   somewhat successful with what they call OCP,” Mehra says.   ”The Telecom Infrastructure Project is disruptive not just to   telecom equipment makers but in some cases the telecom service   providers. Though in some cases it helps the service providers   because it intends to give them more     infrastructure.” ’ ”   So TIP is, in some ways, threatening Nokia’s main telecom   business. ” ’   But Nokia is a close partner of Facebook and the one telecom   equipment vendor embracing TIP as a founding member and board   member. ’ ”   Nokia’s Laurent Le Gourrierec explains why, via an   adaptation of Abraham Lincoln’s famous quote. ” ’   ”The best way to predict the future is to invent it,” he tells   Business Insider. ”You have all these equipment makers   saying, ’’The world is changing so let’’s try to hold on to what we   know. ’’ But the thing is that the world is changing anyway, so   it’’s much better to take an active role in shaping the future.” ’ ’   If all goes well, TIP and Facebook will actually help create   new customers using new telecom services, those people in   undeveloped nations that never had telecom or   internet,  ’ ’  ’ ’   When Facebook created Voyager, Nokia didn’’t shake in fear.   Engineers there thought, ”Maybe we can learn something for   this,”  ’ ’   But there are other equipment makers who are, technically, part   of TIP too. Currently the organization  from all facets of the industry.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”They are not actively contributing,” Le Gourrierec said. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   We only heard one major criticism regularly lobbed at TIP:   that Facebook is becoming extremely powerful. Maybe too powerful.   After Facebook launched Voyager, Facebook dominated the gossip at   the last Mobile World Congress, sources told us. ’ ’  ’ ”   There’s good reason to worry. Facebook is making equipment   with TIP and OCP, it’s got     data centers, it   has a roster of talented engineers and it’s also laying its own   telecom cable, including a  installed with Nokia   between New York and Ireland. ” ’   It could snap its fingers and become a powerful telecom and cloud   operator tomorrow, some people fear  like Amazon did with Amazon Web   Services or Google did with Google Cloud and Google Fiber. ’ ’We aren’t operating any networks ourselves. We are   trying to help the telcos solve this,” he said. The idea is to   ”share” lessons and technology to ”always benefits” the whole   community. ’ ’  ’ ’I can understand the concern. It’’s very much   natural, because operators are always being disrupted,” he   said, American   internet companies ”like Amazon, Google, and Facebook.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”But in the long run, I strongly believe in mutual   benefits,” he said. He notes that because Amazon helped   create cloud computing, there are brand new     markets and ”everyone benefits. I think the same thing will   happen in the teleco sectors.” ’ ”   Not everyone is convinced that TIP will succeed. IDC’s Mehra   cautions that it’s a huge undertaking and the two biggest   telecom equipment vendors, Ericsson and Huawei, have remained   cool toward the project, for obvious reasons, he says. ” ’   ”TIP may see progress over the years. But the challenges are   higher. They are working on four to five different domains of   telecom infrastructure, each with its own set of technologies and   own set of tech providers,” Mehra says. ’ ’   All the board members of TIP admit the project is in its early   days and could fail. It could fail to attract a community. It   could fail to produce products the world wants to use.  ’ ’   But they believe it will succeed. ’ ’   ”Today most telecos remain as the status quo but all the telcos   leadership, if you ask them, they want transformation. They want   changes. They want innovation. They have to overcome it by   collaborating with Facebook and others,” he said. ”Again, witness   all the innovations that have already happened in the cloud   industry. We want to apply all those innovations to the   telco industry, which will make operators happier and customer   happier and for everyone, a  .”  ’ ’On an ordinary work day in   a handful. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’