’  ’ ’   Fox News host Sean Hannity slammed his critics as ”hypocrites”   after the network  a local affiliate’’s story on slain Democratic   National Committee staffer Seth Rich. ’ ”   Fox 5 in Washington, DC had    that private investigator Rod Wheeler, who is affiliated with the   Rich family, said that before Rich was fatally shot in July,    the website that was responsible for the release   of internal DNC emails last year. Hannity frequently   discussed the story on TV and online, and he seems to be   sticking by it even after Fox’s retraction. ” ’   ”All you in the liberal media, I am not Fox. com or FoxNews. com, I   retracted nothing,” Hannity said on his radio show Tuesday   afternoon. ’ ’   ”For those accusing me of pushing a conspiracy theory, you are   the biggest phony hypocrites in the world,” he said. ’ ”   Hannity seems to think that if Rich was the source of the leaked   emails from DNC officials, and not Russian hackers as US   intelligence agencies believe, that could be a blow to   accusations that President Donald Trump’s campaign colluded with   Russians to sway the presidential election. ” ’   ”If in fact, take Seth out of it, there was a whistleblower   within the DNC, a   that actually was the source for   WikiLeaks, and not Russia working with the Trump campaign, these   are questions that I have a moral obligation to ask and I will do   the mainstream media’’s job like I have most of my career,”   Hannity said.  ’ ”   The Metropolitan Police Department is still investigating   Rich’s murder and has said there is evidence which suggests   Rich was the victim of a robbery gone wrong. No definitive motive   for Rich’s killing has been found yet. ” ”   A number of   outlets and personalities, including   Hannity, have pushed the theory that Rich’s murder was   orchestrated by the DNC because he provided thousands of DNC   emails to WikiLeaks.  ” ”   Hannity and many others have pointed to Fox’s story that cited   Rod Wheeler, a private investigator who is affiliated with the   Rich family and apparently made the accusation that Rich   had ties to WikiLeaks. These statements led some   to theorize that Rich’s killing was ordered by the DNC   and covered up by the Metropolitan Police   Department. The police department  Wheeler’s   claim. ” ”   Fox 5 published its story on May 15, and the story was   picked up by Fox News’ national website on May 16. On Tuesday,   Fox News  and released a statement saying that the story   did not meet its editorial standards. ” ’   After the story was published, Wheeler  that he   personally had no evidence suggesting Rich had been in touch with   Wikileaks before his death. ”I only got that [information]   from the reporter at Fox News,” Wheeler said. ’ ’   ’ ”   Hannity first raised questions about Rich’s murder in    speculating about the possibility that Rich was a WikiLeaks   source. Hannity has repeatedly called attention to the   conspiracy theory over the past week as well. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThoughts twitter??  ’ ’ ’t’t’tThere are still so many questions surrounding the death of DNC staffer Seth Rich  …      joins me next  ’ ’ ’t’t’tJulian Assange all but identifies the 27 year old DNC worker as a source and we are to ignore this?  ’ ’ ’t’t’tCongress, investigate Seth Rich Murder!  made comments u need to listen to! If Seth was wiki source, no   collusion  ’ ’   He has urged his followers to pay attention to the Twitter   account of Kim Dotcom, a notorious internet entrepreneur who has   also  the Rich conspiracy   theory. CNN    that Kim Dotcom currently resides in New Zealand and is   wanted in the US on charges of copyright infringement and money   laundering.  ’ ’   Hannity, who has painted Rich as a heroic victim targeted   for retribution by the DNC, said on Tuesday, ”I feel so badly for   this family and what they have been through and what they are   going through.” ’ ”   But Rich’s family has repeatedly asked Hannity to stop peddling   the DNC conspiracy theory.  ” ’   ”Think about how you would feel losing a son or brother,” Seth’’s   brother, Aaron,    to the executive producer of Hannity’’s Fox News show. ”And while   dealing with this, you had baseless accusations of your lost   family member being part of a vast conspiracy.” ’ ’   Aaron Rich added that he thinks it’’s a ”travesty” that   Hannity would ”prompt false conspiracy theories and other   people’’s agendas rather than work with the family to learn the   truth.” ’ ’   In a statement  last week, the Rich family’’s representative Brad   Bauman said, ”It’’s sad but unsurprising that a group of media   outlets who have repeatedly lied to the American people would try   and manipulate the legacy of a murder victim in order to forward   their own political agenda.” ’ ’   ”I think there is a special place in hell for people like that,”   Bauman added.  ’ ’Fox News host Sean Hannity slammed his critics. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’