’  ’ ’   The FBI on Thursday  of the chairman of the House oversight committee,   Jason Chaffetz, for the memos maintained by former FBI Director   James Comey detailing his interactions with President Donald   Trump. ’ ’   In a letter, the FBI cited the appointment of a special counsel   as the reason for its decision to withhold the documents. ’ ’   ”On May 17, 2017, Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein   announced the appointment of former FBI Director and Department   of Justice official Robert S. Mueller III to serve as special   counsel investigating Russian efforts to interfere with the 2016   United States presidential election,” said the letter, signed by   Gregory Brower, the assistant director of the Office of   Congressional Affairs. ”In light of this development and other   considerations, we are undertaking appropriate consultation to   ensure all relevant interests implicated by your request are   properly evaluated.” ’ ’   The FBI added that it would ”update this response as soon as   possible.” ’ ’   Chaffetz sent his original request after it emerged that Comey   had  known as memoranda for the record, of his interactions   with the president. ’ ”   One of those memos described a meeting in the Oval Office in   February, during which Comey wrote that  to drop the FBI’s investigation into Michael Flynn, the   former national security adviser. Flynn had resigned one day   before the meeting, according to Comey’s memo. ” ’   Shortly after news of Comey’’s memo broke, Chaffetz  to   the FBI saying Comey’’s notes ”raise questions as to whether the   president attempted to influence or impede the FBI’’s   investigation as it relates to Lt. Gen. Flynn.” Chaffetz called   on the FBI to release the memos ”so the committee can consider   that question and others” related to the Russia probe and whether   Trump interfered in the investigation. ’ ’  ’ ’   Chaffetz replied on Thursday to the FBI, saying the oversight   committee had a ”constitutionally based prerogative” to conduct   its investigation, but that he did not want to interfere with   Mueller’’s probe. ’ ”   Mueller was appointed to spearhead the FBI’s Russia probe after a   slew of explosive news stories posed questions about the   president’s and his associates’ ties to Russia. ” ’   After Trump fired Comey on May 9, he said ”the Russia thing” had   been a factor in his decision. Trump also met with the Russian   foreign minister and ambassador in the Oval Office the day after   firing Comey, during which he  called Comey a   ”,” and said   his firing relieved ”great pressure.” ’ ’   ”The focus of the committee’’s investigation is the independence   of the FBI, including conversations between the president and   Comey and the process by which Comey was removed from his role as   director,” Chaffetz said in the letter. ”The records being   withheld are central to those questions, even more so in light of   Comey’’s decision not to testify before the committee at this   time.” ’ ’   Comey is set to testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee   in an open, public hearing after Memorial Day. ’ ’The FBI on Thursday declined the request of the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’