’  ’ ”   A day after Montana Republican Greg Gianforte won his state’s   seat in the US House of Representatives, questions swirled about   the fate of his term, before it even begins. ” ’   Gianforte was  on Wednesday after a reporter   said he was ” ” by Gianforte while the reporter tried   to ask him a question about the Congressional Budget Office’’s   rating of the American Health Care Act. ’ ’   Business Insider asked three legal experts this question: ”Can   Greg Gianforte legally serve as Montana’’s representative if he is   convicted for assault?” ’ ’   According to Dr. Erwin Chemerinsky, Dean of UC Irvine’’s School of   Law, nothing in the US Constitution would prevent House     Gianforte from serving, even if he were   convicted of the misdemeanor assault. Further, ”states cannot   impose additional restrictions on eligibility to serve in   Congress,” Chemerinsky said, meaning Montana could not enact   legislation to bar him from serving in light of the alleged   offense. ’ ’   William Banks, Professor of Public Administration and   International Affairs at Syracuse University agreed, but further   clarified the terms. ’ ’’ ’   Banks told Business Insider the US Constitution does not stop ”a   convicted member of Congress from continuing to serve, even for   felony convictions, short of treason.” The only barrier Gianforte   could face is if he is jailed for a term of two or more years.   The charge he is facing in Montana, however, is punishable by up   to six months in jail. ’ ’   But if that were to happen, House regulations would bar Gianforte   from participating in votes. If that were the case, he could   potentially ”lose committee ranking or chair positions under   party rules,” Banks said. However, it is unlikely for Gianforte   to be sentenced to two or more years in prison for a misdemeanor   assault, so those terms likely wouldn’’t apply. ’ ’   A   scenario for Gianforte would be being expelled from   the House, which the House could do, following a   vote.   However, Dr. Jon Michaels, a law professor at UCLA, told Business   Insider the   vote has happened ”incredibly   infrequently,” and ”mostly around the Civil War and surrounding   questions of loyalty to the Union.” ’ ’   Gianforte is expected to appear in Montana court by June 7th. ’ ’A day after Montana Republican Greg Gianforte. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’