’  ’ ”   Department of Homeland Security secretary John Kelly defended   President Trump’s senior adviser and    Jared Kusher on   Sunday, as Kushner came under increased scrutiny following new   revelations about his contacts with Russian officials immediately   after the 2016 election. ” ’   ”I know Jared. He’’s a great guy, decent guy,” Kelly  on ”Meet The Press.” ’ ’   ”His number one, number one interest, really, is the nation. So   you know there’’s a lot of different ways to communicate,     publicly with other countries,” Kelly said. ”I   don’’t see any big issue here relative to Jared.” ’ ’   Kelly was referring to a  on Friday in which US officials said Kushner and   former national security adviser Michael Flynn met with Russian   ambassador Sergey Kislyak in early December to discuss setting up   a secret   of communication between the US and the   Kremlin. According to officials, Kushner proposed setting up the   line of communication through Russian facilities, which would   shield it from US monitoring. ’ ’   Todd pressed Kelly on why Kushner would want to set up a channel   with Moscow, which US intelligence agencies concluded meddled in   the 2016 election. ’ ’   Kushner wanted a   ”even with an adversary, someone   that was, at the time, our own intelligence community had   collectively said, ’’This is a country that had infiltrated our   election,’’” Todd said. ”Did this show good judgment?” ’ ’   ”Well you know, it was before the government was in place during   the transition period, I think,” Kelly replied. ”And I think any   time you can open lines of communication with anyone, whether   they’’re good friends or not so good friends, it’’s a smart thing   to do.” ’ ”   Kushner, who did not disclose the meeting on his security   clearance form,  of Russia’s   election interference, and whether the Trump campaign colluded   with Moscow to undermine Democratic presidential candidate   Hillary Clinton. ” ’  ’ ’   He also had two previously undisclosed phone calls with Kislyak   between April and November of last year, . ’ ’   Kushner’’s attorney James Gorelick responded to the Reuters story   Friday evening via CNN, saying ”Mr. Kushner participated in   thousands of calls in this time period. He has no recollection of   the calls as described. We have asked (Reuters) for the dates of   such alleged calls so we may look into it and respond, but we   have not received such information.” ’ ”   National security adviser H. R. McMaster also defended Kushner’s   actions on Saturday, saying that he was not bothered by the news. ” ’   ”We have   communications with a number of countries.   So, generally speaking, about   communications, what   that allows you to do is to communicate in a discreet manner,” he   told reporters as the president rounded out his first foreign   trip. ’ ’   But former intelligence officials and legal analysts threw cold   water on that assessment. ’ ’   While it’’s not uncommon for   staffers to bypass   bureaucracy to build consensus in advance of     negotiations, what Kushner did was ”substantially different,”    a   recently retired FBI agent who ran counterintelligence operations   and spent more than 20 years at the bureau. ’ ’   Kushner ”is not seeking a   for a   staff   exchange,” Olson said. ”He wants       communication. This is extremely dangerous because it results in   verbal (and therefore undocumented and unwitnessed) agreements,   which are binding on governments. Free governments do not work   this way. They can’’t. If they do, they are no longer free.” ’ ’   Olson also added that Kushner’’s reported request to use Russian   facilities goes ”way beyond a private server” because it’’s a   conversation ”recorded by the opposing party. . .. This shows a   staggering lack of understanding of the US and its place in the   world.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”If you are in a position of public trust, and you talk to, meet,   or collude with a foreign power” while trying to subvert normal   state channels, ”you are, in the eyes of the FBI and CIA, a   traitor,” said Glenn Carle, a former top counterterrorism   official at the CIA for more than two decades. ’ ’   This latest bombshell is yet ”another puzzle piece,” said Keith   Whittington, a professor of politics at Princeton University. ”It   provides more reason to worry about the president’’s motivations   when he made inquiries into the progress of [congressional and   FBI] investigations.” ’ ’   Whittington added that it will also ”presumably be harder for the   president to distance himself from his    than it would   be in the case of other staffers like Flynn,” which will   complicate the administration’’s efforts at damage control. ’ ’   ”The question isn’’t whether this line of communication was   appropriate or not,” said Jens David Ohlin, an associate dean at   Cornell Law School and an expert on criminal law. ”The question   is why Kushner wanted it. Presumably the secret channel would   allow the administration to talk to the Russians without the   State Department, intelligence agencies, or the rest of the   federal bureaucracy knowing about it. Why the need for secrecy   from our own government?” ’ ’   Ohlin suggested that recent developments may point to a   ”nefarious motive: a radical realignment of   relations   in exchange for Russia intervening in the election to get Trump   elected.” ’ ’   He continued: ”I sincerely hope that isn’’t true, because that   would be profoundly disturbing.” ’ ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. ’ ’Department of Homeland Security secretary John. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’