’  ’ ’   A month into his presidency, Donald Trump was surprised. ’ ’   ”Nobody knew healthcare could be this complicated,” Trump   mused during a White House event on February 27. ’ ’   Three months, two votes, and one hugely unpopular bill   later, the Republican Party is still struggling   with just how complicated healthcare can be. ’ ”   Despite advancing the American Health Care Act (AHCA) out of the   House, the GOP’s attempt to repeal and replace the Affordable   Care Act is still, at best, from completion. A series of snags   have complicated the top item on the party’s agenda. ” ”   Between crumbling insurance markets, policy divisions in   the party, and public dissatisfaction with their proposals,   the GOP’s healthcare overhaul is on shaky ground. ” ”   The AHCA took another hit this week when the Congressional Budget   Office released its updated projections on the legislation’s   effects on premiums and coverage. ” ’   The CBO found that the bill would bring down premiums in the   aggregate and reduce the deficit, but also result in 23 million   fewer people having health insurance in 2026 than under the   current baseline. ’ ’   Perhaps most strikingly, the CBO found that a new provision in   the AHCA, imposed by the   MacArthur amendment,   would undermine protections for people with preexisting   conditions and leave them subject to   premiums. ’ ’ () ’ ’   Even before the score, the bill was not popular with Americans. ’ ’   A poll released by Quinnipiac University on Thursday showed just   20% of Americans support the AHCA, and other polls consistently   show that the bill is deeply unpopular. ’ ’   At the same time, Obamacare has seen a surge in popularity. A   recent Gallup poll showed 55% of Americans support the law, its   highest level of approval since its passage more than seven years   ago. ’ ’  ’ ’   Republicans in Washington have heard the pushback  —   at least in   the Senate. ’ ’   Even as House GOP leaders were celebrating the passage of the   AHCA in a white House Rose Garden ceremony with Trump earlier   this month, Senate GOP members were saying they were prepared to   scrap the legislation and write their own version of the   bill. ’ ’   Senate Republicans have worked over the last few weeks in an   attempt to come up with their own version of a healthcare   bill.  ’ ”   It doesn’t appear to be going smoothly. ” ’   On Tuesday, GOP Sen. Bob Corker expressed frustration with the   Senate process, questioning the working group of   roughly 13 lawmakers that are crafting the bill. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   While there are plenty of issues to iron out, there are two   major disagreements, said Cynthia Cox, associate director at   nonpartisan health policy think tank The Kaiser Family   Foundation: ’ ’   Both of these issues, Cox said, do have a common theme: money. ’ ’   ”To make any of those changes, they need one relative to the   AHCA,” Cox said. ”So it would also come down to which   taxes they cut, or don’’t.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’     cost sharing reduction (CSR) payments help to offset   costs to insurers for providing   Americans with   affordable plans that reduce    costs. Their future is   uncertain. ’ ’ () ’ ’   As Obamacare was signed into law, the Obama administration   stipulated that CSR payments would be funded via   the executive branch. That authority was contested by the     House in a lawsuit that has been ongoing for   several years. The House argues that only Congress has the   authority to appropriate the funds. ’ ’   A court ruled in 2016 against the Obama administration,   endangering the future of the CSR payments. The Obama   administration appealed the ruling. Now, the Trump administration   must ultimately decide whether to continue with the lawsuit.   Trump himself has cast serious doubt as to whether it will. ’ ’   On Monday, the Trump administration and the House agreed to delay   the next step in the case, punting another 90 days to try and   come up with a solution outside of the courts. ’ ”   But the uncertainty over the critical CSR payments have   left insurers in limbo as they decide their plans for the   exchanges’ 2018 plan year. The deadline to submit plans for   the exchanges next year is late June, giving insurers little time   and clarity on how to price their plans  —   or whether it’s worth   participating at all. ” ’   Cox said the uncertainty over the payments could end up driving   insurers away, or cause the companies to increase their premiums. ’ ’   ”They really need clarity on this now,” Cox said. ”Without this   clarity, they’’re either going to have to decide to leave the   market or raise their premiums substantially, and in most cases I   would expect insurers to do one of those two things.” ’ ’   Matthew Fiedler,  agreed that   the uncertainty could have a negative effect on consumer   choices. ’ ’   ”The fact that the administration is a big question mark that   needs to be resolved at some point later in the summer can’’t make   them feel particularly good about where the market is,” Fiedler   told Business Insider. ”I think it continues to make them place   significant weight on the idea that the payments might   ultimately not be there next year and when there’’s any   possibility that they won’’t be paid it just makes it very hard to   plan.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Already, states where insurers have submitted their 2018 exchange   plans have seen significant premium increases.  ’ ’   Republicans have argued that the rates are another sign that   Obamacare as it stands is failing and that the need to pass a   repeal and replacement is even more urgent. ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan’’s website labeled a New York Times   editorial attributing some of the insurer exits from   insurance exchanges to the AHCA as ”disingenuous nonsense.” ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   One insurer took this a step further and clearly pinned the blame   on the AHCA for serious instability in the individual insurance   market. ’ ’   Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina said the company   decided to more than double their requested premium increase   due to the CSR uncertainty. ’ ’   The company has requested a 22. 9% increase for the average   premium in 2018, but said that if the CSR payments were   guaranteed, that would only by 8. 8%. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’A month into his presidency, Donald Trump was. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’