’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump announced Thursday that he would pull the   US out of the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change,   following through with a key campaign promise. ’ ’   While the decision should galvanize his base, it goes against   what   —   and many in the rest   of the world  —   were hoping for. ’ ’   The Paris Agreement, which  signed in December 2015,  to keep the planet from warming by more than   1. 5 degrees Celsius (2. 7 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial   levels, a threshold that scientists say could keep the planet   from launching into a tailspin of irreversible consequences like   unpredictable superstorms and crippling heat waves. ’ ’   ”I don’’t want anything to get in our way,” Trump said on   Thursday. ”The US will withdraw from the Paris climate accord,   but begin negotiations to reenter either the Paris accord or a   really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the   United States, its businesses, its workers, its people, its   taxpayers.” ’ ’   But the president said he would be willing to renegotiate and   rejoin the agreement. ’ ’   ”We’’re getting out, but we will start to negotiate, and we will   see if we can make a deal that’’s fair,” Trump said. ”If we can,   that’’s great. And if we can’’t, that’’s fine.” ’ ”   China,    and the European Union have  on their support of the deal and said they would   lead the world in fighting climate change if the US wouldn’t.   Experts have said the US’s exiting the accord could lead to a   weakened agreement, either via other countries leaving or not   honestly reporting their carbon emissions. ” ’   Trump’’s desire to put ”America First” by withdrawing could be   seen in the rest of the world as the US turning its back on the   international community. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump insisted that pulling out of the agreement wouldn’t derail   America’s environmental progress. ” ’   ”The United States under the Trump administration will continue   to be the cleanest and most environmentally friendly country on   earth. We’’ll be the cleanest. We’’ll have the cleanest air. We’’re   going to have the cleanest water,” Trump said Thursday. ”We are   going to be environmentally friendly, but we’’re not going to put   our businesses out of work, and we’’re not going to lose our jobs.   We’’re going to grow.” ’ ”   Scientists say the US’s weakening response to climate change   could damage global efforts to combat the problem. ” ’   While the US is the   emitter of carbon, after   China, it has contributed the most to emissions over time,   accounting for  of the excess and warming carbon in the atmosphere   today. ’ ” the executive vice president of the Center for   Climate and Energy Solutions, a nonpartisan   think   tank, told Business Insider he wasn’t too worried about other   countries abandoning the agreement and was confident most would   remain committed to climate action. ” ’   ”I don’’t think they’’d want to expose themselves to the sort of   international condemnation the US is likely to face,” said   Diringer, who has attended nearly every United Nations climate   conference since the first in Kyoto two decades ago. ”But I do   worry that a US withdrawal will have a corrosive effect on global   ambition, in the sense that countries will not be as zealous in   meeting their targets and put forward less ambitious targets when   the next round is due in 2020.” ’ ’   The next time the US wants the rest of the world to support one   of its priorities, experts say, other countries may not want to   help. ’ ’   US ”credibility and leverage on other   issues would   take a huge hit,” said Mark Tercek, the president and CEO of The   Nature Conservancy. ’ ’   ”The nations of the world rightfully expect US policy to be   foresighted and steadfast,” . ”Trump has an important opportunity   to show the world that the promises of the United States are   durable, especially with respect to a universal threat as serious   as climate change.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Beyond signing the overall agreement, each country also submitted   a   plan for how it would adopt clean energy and   phase out fossil fuels. This allowed each nation to individualize   and edit their commitments, adding flexibility to the Paris   Agreement so it could bend without breaking. ’ ”   The US’s plan, which the Obama administration submitted in March   2015, set the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26% to   28% by 2025. The baseline level this reduction is measured   against is 2005, when the US emitted 6, 132 million metric tons of   carbon dioxide. ” ”   Because of the way the agreement was designed, it will take years   for the US to fully exit it. According to its rules, the earliest   Trump could give  would be November 2019,   and the US wouldn’t officially exit it until November 4, 2020  —     the day after the next presidential election. ” ”   Obama agreed to the Paris accord through executive action, but   the Senate approved in the  that was the UN’s basis for the Paris Agreement in   1992, when George H. W. Bush was president. Exiting that treaty   would take a year, but it . Trump didn’t indicate   that he wanted to abandon the overall treaty. ” ’   Obama also pledged  to help developing nations deal with the worst of   climate change’’s effects, $1 billion of which it has already sent   to poorer countries. Trump is canceling that promise, on Thursday   calling them ”draconian financial and economic burdens.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Globally, renewable sources like wind, solar, and hydropower made   up only about  in 2016. ’ ’   Supporters of clean energy may see that as a depressing number,   but companies see it as an untapped business opportunity.   Investments in renewable energy surpassed those in fossil fuels   in both 2015 and 2016, and  that trend to continue until     energies like gas, coal, and oil are eventually phased out. ’ ’   Some of the largest American companies  the Paris deal, arguing that doing so   would hurt their bottom line. Leaving would not only increase   uncertainty and risk, the companies say, but make them less   competitive worldwide. ’ ’   Apple, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, and   Salesforce are just some of the major companies that asked Trump   to keep the status quo in a letter that appeared in   ads   in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal last month. ’ ’   ”As businesses concerned with the   of our customers,   our investors, our communities, and our suppliers, we are   strengthening our climate resilience, and we are investing in   innovative technologies that can help achieve a clean energy   transition,” the letter read. ”For this transition to succeed,   however, governments must lead as well.” ’ ’   The   companies ExxonMobil, Shell, PG&E, and   ConocoPhillips even have expressed their support for the deal,   saying it allows the US a seat at the table for oil negotiations. ’ ’   Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, on Wednesday said    the two presidential   advisory councils he sits on if Trump canceled the Paris   Agreement. After Trump made his announcement, . ’ ’   ”Climate change is real,” . ”Leaving Paris is not good for America or the   world.” ’ ’President Donald Trump announced Thursday that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’