’  ’ ”   A lot of people have been noting that President Trump’s decision   to withdraw from the Paris agreement on climate change will leave   the US as one of just three   countries in the   world. We are nearly alone on this. Isolated. ” ”   But I don’t think this talking point means quite what people   think it does. ” ’   It was possible to get nearly every country in the world to join   the agreement because the agreement does not really do anything.   The agreement allows countries to set their own targets for   greenhouse gas emissions, and it prescribes no way to enforce   those targets. ’ ”   Since the agreement is fundamentally symbolic  —   an expression of   global intent to combat climate change  —   Trump’s choice to   withdraw is similarly a symbol of his intent for the US   to unencumber itself from international commitments. ” ’   Compared to other international agreements that Trump complains   about, Paris was easy to withdraw from. Doing so will not enrage   key Republican political constituencies and will not produce much   in the way of policy effects.  the agreement may even be marginally   more effective without us involved. ’ ’’ ”   Because of the agreement’s   nature, and because so   many of the factors slowing the growth of     emissions are  our withdrawal   probably will not even have a material effect on emissions or   global temperatures. ” ”   And that’s why Trump left this agreement, rather than,   say, NAFTA or NATO  —   binding agreements where withdrawal would   impose tangible costs. ” ’   For all of Trump’’s ”America first” talk, and for all the radical   ideas he has expressed about international relations, he is doing   surprisingly little to change America’’s place in the   international order. Withdrawing from Paris is performative   isolationism; so far, Trump has chickened out of pursuing real   isolationism. ’ ”   He considered starting the process to withdraw from NAFTA, but   was talked out of it by his advisers. He instead pledged to   renegotiate the agreement to get better deals at the margin  —   for   example, on the sale of American dairy products to Canada  —   an   issue that was also on President Obama’s agenda, and that would   have been addressed in the   Partnership. ” ’   He rattled his saber at China, declaring his intention to beat   them on trade and flirting with recognizing Taiwan as an   independent country. But President Xi Jinping got Trump to back   down on Taiwan by giving him the silent treatment. Then, Trump   declared victory on Chinese trade after reaching a tiny,      trade deal in which China . ’ ”   Trump claimed he didn’t need to be too harsh on China because the   Chinese had acquiesced to his demand that they stop artificially   weakening their currency  —   a step the Chinese . ” ”   If there is going to be a protectionist reimagining of America’s   trade policy under Trump, it is not yet in evidence. The steps he   has taken so far  —   for example, imposing tariffs on softwood   lumber  —   are within the realm of normal actions undertaken by   past presidents who were broadly committed to free trade, like   President George W. Bush. ” ”   The president has done his part to weaken the NATO alliance with   his words, or lack thereof, but so far we remain officially   committed to the alliance. The president’s advisers insist he is   committed to NATO’s Article V   agreement, even if   the president has been reluctant to say as much out loud. ” ”   If Trump came into office intending to lift sanctions and reach   détente with Russia, the widening scandal around his campaign  —     and the replacement of his     adviser   Michael Flynn with a normal human being  —   seem to have   discouraged him from doing so. It does look like the Russians   ; I doubt that was Vladimir Putin’s top concern. ” ”   Trump hasn’t been able to retrench and realign the US in the ways   he claims he wants to because the consequences would be too   negative. Pulling out of NAFTA would shrink the US economy and   cause the stock market to fall. Trump wants NATO for its help on     initiatives. Easing up too much on Russia right now   would seem too fishy. ” ’   By contrast, withdrawing from the Paris agreement is little more   than a middle finger to the rest of the world. An obscene   gesture, but a gesture nonetheless. ’ ”   The most tangible problem created by our withdrawal from the   accord may be a decline in America’s global standing and   leadership. But I tend to think that decline is largely a   function of Trump’s presidency itself; America would hardly be   seen as a leader on climate change under Trump if we had instead   stayed in the accord and ignored our emissions targets. ” ”   To the extent our withdrawal alienates the world from us, that   aligns with Trump’s intent in withdrawing, and does indeed make   the US more isolated. But Trump has been reluctant to take more   concrete and irrevocable isolating steps, for clear reasons. ” ’A lot of people have been noting that President. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’