’  ’ ’   The Trump administration reportedly looked into lifting US   sanctions on Russia just days after the president’’s inauguration,   and one former official at the State Department said that if   those efforts were successful, it would have given the Russians   ”exactly what they wanted in exchange for absolutely nothing.” ’ ’ and    reported   on Thursday that State Department officials scrambled in January   to push back on orders from the Trump administration to begin   looking into lifting sanctions on Russia. ’ ”   One of those officials, Tom Malinowski, who stepped down as   President Barack Obama’s assistant secretary of state for human   rights on January 19, corroborated those reports in an interview   on Friday. ” ’   ”I heard after stepping down that, unsurprisingly, the White   House was beginning to consider drafting the actual substance of   a deal with the Russians,” Malinowski told Business Insider.   ”That doesn’’t mean any decisions had been made, but as you would   expect for a president who campaigned on getting rid of   impediments to chummy   relations, his administration   immediately started charting ways forward to achieving that.” ’ ”   But despite President Donald Trump’s insistence on making the   best deals, in this case, it seems the US wouldn’t have gotten   much in return. ” ’’ ’   Malinowski and Daniel Fried, who was the chief US coordinator for   sanctions policy until he retired in late February, had to lobby   Congress to halt the development of the   package   after government officials began ringing ”alarm bells about   possible concessions being made” to Russia, Malinowski said. ’ ”   Fried told  that US   government officials called him in a panic after receiving the   White House’s request. ” ’   ”Please, my God, can’’t you stop this?” Fried recalled them   asking. ’ ”   The revelation that Trump prioritized a review of the sanctions   during his first week in office comes as the FBI scrutinizes his   campaign’s contacts with Moscow. There has been speculation about   whether any collusion occurred that involved a promise to lift   sanctions in exchange for Russia’s meddling in the US   presidential election, which some argue may have helped Trump   win. ” ”   It also comes one week after The Washington Post reported that   Trump’s    and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, met with   Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in December and  line of communication to Moscow using   Russian facilities. ” ”   Trump’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, was also   at the meeting. He had reportedly assured Kislyak in at least one   phone call during the transition period that the Trump   administration would review the sanctions imposed by Obama as   punishment for Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 and hacking   campaign in 2016. ” ’   Malinowski said on Friday that he was shocked to hear that the   administration was considering ”giving the Russians exactly what   they wanted in exchange for absolutely nothing,” echoing Fried’’s    that the administration seemed prepared to rescind   sanctions ”in exchange for, well, nothing,” ’ ’   Malinowski said that during the campaign, he and his colleagues   found Trump’’s comments ”bizarre because there are obviously not a   lot of votes to be gained by campaigning on a   platform.   So we didn’’t understand where that was coming from.” ’ ’   But he said he was not too surprised when he learned that Trump   had explored lifting the sanctions so early on. ’ ’   ”The one thing Trump has been consistent about for the last year   is his strange attraction to Putin,” Malinowski said. ”One   expects new presidents to move rather quickly on the things that   are most important to them.” ’ ”   Upon hearing from the former diplomats, Russia hawks like   Democratic Sen. Ben Cardin and Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham   acted swiftly to halt Trump’s efforts. ” ’   The senators introduced the  on February 8, which would give Congress veto power over   any   package affecting Russia proposed by the   White House. Republican Sen. Bob Corker, the chairman of the   Senate Foreign Relations Committee,  he would   allow the bill to come to a vote if Secretary of State Rex   Tillerson did not make progress soon on improving relations with   Russia on the Syrian civil war. ’ ’   The White House did not immediately respond to Business Insider’’s   request for comment. But a senior White House official told Yahoo   that the administration was ”reviewing all the sanctions  —   and   this is not exclusive to Russia.” They added that they were   waiting to see if Russia lives up to its commitment to help end   the war in Ukraine. ’ ’   ”All the sanctions regimes have mechanisms built in to alleviate   them,” the official said. ”It’’s been our hope that the Russians   would take advantage of that.” ’ ’The Trump administration reportedly looked into. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’