’Walmart, the single largest employer in America with 2. 3 million employees worldwide, has come under fire for its attendance policy.’ ’Based on conversations with Walmart employees and results of a survey of more than 1, 000 current and formerWalmart employees, worker advocacy group A Better Balance  claiming the retailer has punished its workers for taking sick days and time off to care for loved ones and violated a number of   laws including the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA).’ ’”Walmart should fully comply with the law so that no one is illegally punished for a   absence or for taking care of themselves or a loved one with a serious medical condition,” Dina Bakst, founder and president of A Better Balance, the advocacy group that prepared the report, .’ ”Among the complaints A Better Balance received, employees have said they’re afraid to call out sick, they’ve been penalized and even fired after taking sick time, and they face financial ruin as a result.” ’Randy Hargrove, a spokesperson for Walmart, issued a statement to Business Insider in response to the report:’ ’Keep reading for more detail on some of the key points and quotes of the report:’ ’”I’’ve called in sick I think three times last winter, but each time I’’ve been told I’’ve just ‘lost points’’ (of which I have no idea what that means nor how to tell how many ‘points’’ I have). Therefore, I think I must be getting close to the ‘limit of points’’ so I just don’’t call out sick anymore at all. For all I know, I might have a week of paid sick leave, however no one will show me how to see how many hours I actually have, so I act like I have none left. . . It’’s very easy to use them up too quickly, thus I won’’t use any more until I have an explanation. ”’ ’ —  An anonymous employee from California ’ ” many employees are only permitted to access Walmart’s internal computer system that details employee policies, the Wire, while they are on the clock (sometimes with a manager hovering nearby) and they are told that their use of the Wire is logged by Walmart.” ’”My daughter was having seizures, I had to take time off to monitor her. They counted it against me. I passed out at work. They sent me to the hospital. The next day, they fired me for it. Walmart is a joke. People have lives outside of work, we get sick, we have children, things happen, and Walmart literally covers NOTHING. ”’ ’ —  An anonymous employee from Ohio’ ’ that Walmart uses a point system to discipline workers, and too many points results in firing. Walmart reportedly gives workers disciplinary points for any absence they consider unauthorized, and working less than half of a scheduled shift is considered an absence.’ ’”I got into a car wreck on my way to work and was sent by ambulance to the hospital. I had two fractured ribs and a concussion. I reached a manager from the hospital, who said it would be ok, and I came into work the next day with wrapped ribs and a concussion. The front manager then said that they wouldn’’t accept the doctor’’s note from the hospital, and they fired me for missing that day. ”’ ’ —  An anonymous employee from Oklahoma’ ’If an employee does not call in to report an absences at least an hour in advance, they receive four points, .’ ’”My appendix ruptured while at work and because I already had eight points, I could not leave work to go to the ER without pointing out and losing my job. I should have been able to leave to go to the ER and not worry about losing my job. I had even said to management, ’’So if I fall out because of my appendix and have to go out in an ambulance  …    I will get a point and lose my job? ’’ The response from management was, ’’Yes. ’’”’ ’ —  An anonymous employee from Kentucky’ ’ if you have worked at Walmart for less than six months and receive four points, you will be terminated, and if you have worked at Walmart for six months or more and receive nine points in a   rolling period, you will be terminated.’ ’”As a mother and a person, we get sick every once in a while. It’’s something we have no control over! We still get punished with a point regardless of whether we have a doctor’’s note, and they expect us to not work around food and customers sick! My son had pneumonia, his life was on the line, and I still couldn’’t be excused from work. Just pitiful!’ ’ —  An anonymous employee from West Virginia ’ ’ they think Walmart has a problem of regularly punishing people who have absences due to a disability or serious illness and believe there is no such thing as an excused absence.’ ’”I was vomiting blood and had to go to the ER. I was there for two days and each day was a point. I then had two days off, and I brought my hospital notes in when I went back. They would not accept them. ”’ ’ —  An anonymous employee from Kentucky’ ” workers say that managers do not consider and often refuse to take doctors’ notes from employees.  Walmart’s policy and practice is to not consider the content of the note in deciding whether to treat the absences as unauthorized.” ’”I asked for two weeks off to receive mental health treatment. Sedgwick finally got back to me within the last 48 hours of my requested leave, which I hadn’’t taken because it wasn’’t  approved. Thanks, Sedgwick. ”’ ’ —  An anonymous employee from California ’ ’ Walmart sometimes tells employees with absences of more than three days to contact a company called Sedgwick for a leave of absence. Employees in the report say Sedgwick is slow, unresponsive, and confusing to deal with.’ ’”My    daughter got pneumonia in January 2017. I am a single mom and no one could watch her, so I had to take a week off work while she was recovering. I took in a note from the hospital and my manager said they would take me off the schedule, but they never did and I got points for being out.’ ’”Then in February, my daughter had an allergic reaction and I had to rush her to the hospital and miss work. Because of this, I lost my job. I loved my job and I lost it and lost my place because I couldn’’t find work soon enough. I am now homeless. I wish Walmart didn’’t have such a horrible attendance policy. I always showed up on time and was one of their good employees. ”’ ’ —  An anonymous employee from Texas ’ ” Walmart’s attendance policy requires that an employee notify management three weeks in advance of an absence, that management approve that absence, and that management choose to build the requested absence into the schedule.” ’”My son was hospitalized for pneumonia. It was so bad that he stopped breathing in the ER and they needed to put him on oxygen. I got points even after telling management why I was out. They give points no matter what. ”’ ’ —  An anonymous employee from Tennessee ’ ’ who said they have been absent from work for a medical emergency, 78% said they were also punished for an absence.’ ”If you’re a Walmart employee with a story to share, email careers@businessinsider. com.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’Walmart, the single largest employer in America. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’