’  ’ ”   Three weeks after President Donald Trump abruptly fired FBI   director James Comey, his administration’s Russia controversy   continues to unfold, in large part because of a series of leaks   of sensitive information to the media. ” ”   While some contend that the leaks are necessary to inform the   public of the activities of what critics call an opaque   administration, national security experts are increasingly torn   over whether they’re a public good or a security risk. ” ’   The one thing those in the national security and intelligence   communities agree on, however, is the accelerated rate at which   information is being disseminated to the press. ’ ’   ”This is the leakiest administration in recent memory, no doubt,”   said Robert Deitz, a veteran of the CIA and National Security   Agency who worked under presidents Bill Clinton and George W.   Bush, referring to leaks coming out of the White House, as well   as those that have reportedly come from current and former   intelligence officials. ’ ’   And that’’s not a good thing, Deitz said. ”As a former   intelligence official, I’’m opposed to leaks. As a general rule,   [intelligence] leaks are harmful.” ’ ’   ”By definition, when someone leaks information, they’’re betraying   the trust and confidence that was placed in them when they were   given a clearance and access to classified information,” said   Charles Price, a former FBI agent who worked at the bureau for   nearly three decades. ’ ’   Leaks also inhibit the free and candid exchange of information   within the government, Price added, leading people to question   who they can trust. ’ ”   Some experts argue that leaks, though they may have been   justified before, aren’t justified now because officials have a   number of avenues to report sensitive information, including the   FBI and congressional investigations into   ties. ” ’   Susan Hennessey, a Brookings national security fellow and former   NSA counsel,    about particularly risky leaks of information collected through   signals intelligence, called SIGINT for short. SIGINT refers to   information gleaned from intercepting communications between   parties of interest. All information collected in this manner is   deemed classified. ’ ’  ’ ”   SIGINT leaks were included in reports that Trump’s adviser   and    Jared  between Trump   and Moscow; reports that Russian officials  about Trump; and reports that former   national security adviser  in a conversation with Russian ambassador Sergey   Kislyak during the transition period. ” ’   Such revelations mark an ”alarming” departure from proper legal   and security protocol, Price said  —   and they could compromise   American spycraft. ’ ’   The target of a SIGINT operation may have thought they had a   secure communications device, ”but all of a sudden, they’’re   reading in the paper about information collected from the device   they thought was secure,” Price said. ”Now they realize their   network isn’’t so secure after all.” ’ ’   SIGINT releases can reveal who the US is targeting on what   devices, alerting adversaries to fix the problem, Price added.   And that can risk national security by compromising US   intelligence operations. ’ ”   Leaks can also pose constitutional challenges. Shortly after   Flynn’s conversation with Kislyak was released to the press,   Lawfare’s Tim Edgars  that the   leak may have violated Flynn’s civil liberties. ” ’   His conversation with Kislyak was obtained through a Foreign   Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) warrant, which allows for   the monitoring of any individual in the US, including foreign   agents. FISA warrants are designed in order to protect the Fourth   Amendment rights of US persons like Flynn who converse with   foreign intelligence targets like Kislyak. And ”publicly   disclosing or disseminating such information for purposes other   than foreign intelligence almost certainly violated that order,   and possibly Flynn’s constitutional rights,” Edgar wrote. ’ ’   ”I cannot recall any other time in which the contents of FISA   intercepts were disclosed to the media in this manner,” Hennessey   said. ’ ’   But others argue that it isn’’t so   . Given current   circumstances and the unique challenges posed by the Trump   administration, leaks pertaining to the president’’s and his   associates’’ ties to Russia ”are acts of profound patriotism in   defense of the republic,” said Glenn Carle, a CIA veteran and   former spy. ’ ’   ”Normally, of course leaks are harmful,” he said. ”But we are not   in normal times.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump has been hounded by the issue of Russian election   interference since he took office. The controversy picked up   steam in March, when Comey confirmed to Congress that the    and collusion   with the Kremlin during the 2016 election. ’ ’   Things heated up further in May, when  who was spearheading the FBI’’s probe. Though the White   House  the   decision had been driven entirely by the recommendation of Deputy   Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, Trump  that   ”this Russia thing” had been a factor in his decision to fire   Comey. ’ ”   In the days and weeks that followed, a  of   raised   further questions about the president’s motives in firing the man   investigating him; his dealings with Russian officials; and his   possible  to  an active   counterintelligence investigation into his campaign associates. ” ”   Soon after, the Department of Justice  as special counsel in charge of the   Russia investigation. Some of the latest revelations involving   Kushner’s reported communications with Kislyak seem to indicate   that the investigation may now reach the highest levels of the   White House. ” ’   These developments, fueled in large part by leaks from the   intelligence community, highlight the ”existential crisis”   intelligence officials may find themselves in, Carle said. ’ ’   ”You take an oath to protect the Constitution against all   enemies, domestic and foreign. That’’s what we do to serve the   country. But now you’’re faced with a chief executive who acts in   ways that betray that oath,” Carle said. ”If you serve the state,   you betray your oath. If you betray the state, you betray your   oath. So, what do you do?” ’ ”   Claire Finkelstein, a professor and national security expert at   the University of Pennsylvania Law School, echoed Carle’s   concerns. ” ’   ”The country is in a serious crisis with regard to leaking. On   the one hand, it’’s very important that the president is the      and we owe him a duty of loyalty,” Finkelstein   said. ”But on the other hand, when the president is himself the   source of danger to the nation, because he is not safeguarding   the nation’’s interest, then that duty of loyalty is severely   tested. That’’s where we are right now.” ’ ’   Finkelstein added that when intelligence officials have ”divided   loyalties,” in which their pledge to the Constitution ”conflicts   with their duty to the president, they choose the Constitution.   They choose the country. And that’’s why we have leaks.” ’ ’   Above all, some former intelligence officials believe the surge   of leaks points to the use of an instrumentalist argument that   could set ”dangerous” precedent. ’ ’   ”Leakers basically make the judgment call that it’’s OK to divulge   sensitive information,” Deitz said. ”When information is   classified, then one ought to obey the law in that respect and   not leak it. You can’’t just say, ’’It’’s OK for me to leak, but   it’’s not OK when someone else leaks’’ for purposes that don’’t suit   you.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The countervailing point, he said, is that intelligence of a   sensitive nature will typically go to the  the   Democratic and Republican congressional members who are regularly   briefed on classified information. ’ ’   ”And they’’re able to speak if they think something’’s important.   They can do it anonymously by leaking to the press, or they can   hold hearings,” Deitz said. ”There’’s no need for intelligence   officials to intervene in that respect.” ’ ’   Price echoed that assessment and added that intelligence   officials who leak are ”concluding on a fundamental level that   the rules don’’t apply to them.” But that type of analysis, he   argued, ”is fueled at its base by abject arrogance and hubris.” ’ ’   ”When you leak information because you think someone has a right   to know, you’’re starting down a perilous road with a very   slippery slope,” Price said. ”You’’ve compromised your integrity,   the agency you work for, and the intelligence. And that’’s   incredibly disconcerting.” ’ ”   The existence of a more credible Senate investigation and   Mueller’s appointment as special counsel should serve as a   bulwark against more leaks, some experts said. ” ’   ”The investigations do make a difference, because it would mean   that there are ways through which the information can be brought   forward without having to make it public,” Finkelstein said. ”In   that case, the information should be directed up the chain of   command.” ’ ’   Carle disagreed. ”Look at what happened during the campaign,” he   said. ”The intelligence community and the CIA, in particular, had   multiple sources of information about Russian intelligence   activities that took place to undermine our democracy and support   Trump.” ’ ’   ”So they did the proper thing, which was to brief the Gang of   Eight in a series of   briefings because the   information was so sensitive,” he continued. ”What was the   consequence? The Senate majority leader and Speaker of the House   both said, ’’You will not go forward with this. You will not   publicize this. ’’” ’ ’   The Democrats, Carle said, reacted with alarm and tried to take   steps on the issue. ”And the Republicans blocked it. The acts of   the intelligence community were effectively neutered. So, what do   you do then? It’’s only through the press that information can   come out. And sometimes sunlight is the best disinfectant.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Carle also touched on former acting attorney general Sally Yates   as an example of how information was brought up through the chain   of command and ultimately ignored, until the press reported on   it. ’ ’   Yates  in January about Flynn’’s conversations with Russia’’s   ambassador so that the Trump administration ”could take action”   amid concerns Flynn could have been subject to blackmail by the   Russians. ’ ’   Yates did the right thing, Carle said. ”She went through the   chain of command, she did her job, she reported the dangers of   collusion and coercion on General Flynn to her superiors. And no   action was taken  —   until the press got involved.” ’ ’   Flynn was    when  on the content of his conversations with Kislyak. ’ ’   Yates ”did the normal thing, but this is not a normal   circumstance,” Carle said. ”You can either commit treason, or you   leak to the press. There’’s no happy way forward.” ’ ’   ”So, you choose the lesser of two evils, and that’’s why there are   leaks.” ’ ”   Finkelstein stressed the importance of keeping classified   information  —   like that involving Kushner’s alleged conversation   with Kislyak about a Russian back channel  —   from being leaked to   the press, but also noted that the current situation poses a   unique circumstance.  ” ’   This may be a ”rare instance” during which leaking classified   information is justified, Finkelstein said, ”given the danger the   country faces from [Russia] the unwillingness of our government   to oppose Russian efforts, and the possible collusion   between members of Trump’’s inner circle and Russian   operatives.”  ’ ’   She added that Kushner’’s reported proposal to Kislyak ”exposes   the risk” the US faces by giving Kushner continued access to   classified information.  ’ ’   ”Some information is classified because revealing it would pose a   serious national security threat,” she said. ”Some information is   classified because its revelation could compromise intelligence   sources and methods.” SIGINT regarding Kushner’’s and Flynn’’s   contacts with Russians was classified because of the latter. ’ ’   Finkelstein continued: ”But on the other hand, the failure to   bring that information to the public eye can impact national   security quite a bit. And that’’s my concern with Trump’’s ties to   Russia.” ’ ”   Despite their disagreements on the issue of leaking information,   those in the national security apparatus agree that Trump’s   potential ties to Russia and his fraught relationship with the   intelligence community pose a unique threat to the US. ” ’   ”When the administration gives three or four reasons for firing   the FBI director, that’’s disconcerting,” Price said, adding that   it raised questions about whether Comey’’s firing was a political   move. ’ ’  ’ ’   Comey’’s ouster was ”shocking” and the motivations behind it were   troubling, Price said, because the FBI is ”an apolitical   organization that follows the evidence wherever it goes, and   doesn’’t really care where it ends up, because they don’’t have a   dog in the fight.” ’ ’   He continued: ”And when the public thinks the FBI has a dog in   the fight, it essentially ends the FBI’’s reputation for being an   effective law enforcement organization, because we rely on the   trust and confidence of the public.” ’ ’   ”Comey may have made mistakes, but he was an honest, honorable,   and apolitical man. And you can tell because he was getting rocks   thrown at him from both Democrats and Republicans.” ’ ’   Finkelstein said she feels Trump ”is unfit to be president” for a   number of reasons, especially his efforts to hide information   about his associates’’ ties to Russia in order to preserve his   administration. ’ ’   ”The president and his administration are unable to protect us,”   Finkelstein said, ”both because of his misguided relations with a   country that is an enemy to the US, and because he himself is   under a cloud.” ’ ’   The consequences intelligence officials face for leaking   information about the   investigation are ”grave,”   Carle said, so their desperation also shows the ”depth of concern   in the community as a whole.” ’ ’   He added: ”For many, many people, this is not a political tiff.   This is a threat to the foundations and the very function of the   republic.” ’ ’Three weeks after President Donald Trump. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’