’  ’ ’   CNN host Reza Aslan faced backlash on Saturday after calling   President Donald Trump a ”piece of    ” after a terrorist   attack in London left seven dead and dozens wounded. ’ ’   In a tweet on Saturday that was later deleted, the University of   California, Riverside professor and host of   ”Believer” quoted the president’’s use of several terrorist   incidents in London to justify his executive action barring   individuals from several   nations. ’ ’   ”This piece of     is a not just an embarrassment to American   and a stain on the presidency. He’’s an embarrassment to   humankind,” . ’ ’   The tweet immediately sparked outrage on the right. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tCNN host Reza Asian calls    guy who ate human brain on TV. Must have been his own brain! ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tCNN Host Reza Aslan Calls Trump ‘Piece of Sh*t’ for Correctly Identifying London Terror Attack. via    ’ ” ’t’t’tAs people bleed out in the streets of London, CNN host Reza Aslan identifies Donald Trump’s tweets as the major issue of concern.   ” ’   Aslan deleted the tweet and apologized Sunday afternoon, saying   he lost control when he saw Trump’’s ”derogatory” response to the   London attack. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI should not have used a profanity to describe the President when responding to his shocking reaction to the . My statement:  ’ ’   In a statement on Sunday, CNN distanced itself from Aslan, but   applauded the host for apologizing. ’ ’   ”Reza Aslan is not a CNN employee, but does host a series on the   network,” a CNN spokesperson said. ”We are pleased that he has   apologized for his tweets. That kind of discourse is never   appropriate.” ’ ”   Aslan, who is Muslim, has been    of Trump’s travel ban, which was halted by a federal appeals   court due to a debate over whether it is overtly religiously   discriminatory. ” ”   The professor  for his clash with Trump supporter Kayleigh   McEnany last year over the proposed ban as well as Trump’s claims   that thousands of Muslims in New Jersey celebrated after the   September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, an unfounded assertion. ” ’   ”  bigotry has been the hallmark of Donald Trump’’s   campaign throughout,” Aslan said. ’ ”   Trump’s response to the incident on Twitter was criticized by   many in the UK and on the left who have frequently   blasted his  attempts to blame violent incidents   on Islamic extremists. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIn a single tweet, Trump. ..1) Confirms it is a ban (illegal) 2) Is politicizing an ongoing incident  ’ ” ’t’t’tNever underestimate Trump’s ability to exploit anything or anyone to promote himself or his agenda.   ” ’   For its part, CNN has become a frequent target for Trump and the   right as the network has ramped up its intrepid reporting on the   Trump administration. ’ ’   This was the second time this week a     personality enraged the right. ’ ’   CNN severed ties with comedian Kathy Griffin after she posed with   a . ’ ’   Though Griffin has a   career in comedy and maintains   minimal ties to the network  —   she has hosted its fairly unserious   New Year’’s Eve special  —   some on the right  a ”CNN star.” ’ ’CNN host Reza Aslan faced backlash on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’