’  ’ ’   Russian President Vladimir Putin said he hardly spoke to   former national security adviser Michael Flynn during a 2015   dinner in Moscow. ’ ’   The dinner  —   where the two men were seated next to each other  —     celebrated Russian state media outlet Russia Today (RT).  ’ ’   ”I didn’’t even really talk to him,” Putin  during an interview that will air Sunday at 7 p. m.   EST.  ’ ’   Putin explained that although he sat next to Flynn at the dinner,   the two had limited contact. ”I made my speech. Then we talked   about some other stuff. And I got up and left,” Putin said. ’ ’   He added: ”And then afterwards I was told, ’’You know there was an   American gentleman. He was involved in some things. He used to be   in the security services’’ . .. that’’s it. I didn’’t even really   talk to him” ’ ’   ”That’’s the extent of my acquaintance with Mr. Flynn.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Flynn is currently the focus of two congressional investigations   and an FBI probe into the Trump campaign’s potential ties to   Russia, as well as any efforts to collude with the Kremlin and   hand Donald Trump the presidency during the 2016   election.   ” ’   Flynn was forced to resign from his position as national security   adviser when  that he had discussed US sanctions   on Russia with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak during the   presidential transition period, and then misled Vice President   Mike Pence about his conversation. ’ ”   Flynn’s resignation came days after the Post’s report was   published, but  that the White House had already been aware of   Flynn’s actions  —   former acting attorney general Sally Yates had   warned the Trump administration in late January that Flynn was   susceptible to Russian blackmail, but Flynn did not resign until   18 days later, following the Post’s report. ” ’  ’ ”   In addition to his ties to Russia, Flynn is also under another   FBI investigation for failing to disclose that he had worked   as a paid lobbyist for Turkey. Flynn reportedly  in early January of the investigation into   his Turkey ties, which means the administration was aware of   Flynn’s vulnerabilities before Trump took office.  ” ”   Flynn’s background prompted so many questions, in fact,   that former president  in 2016 not to hire   Flynn as national security adviser. ” ”   Trump’s own relationship with Flynn has also attracted scrutiny,   particularly  asked former FBI director James Comey to   drop the FBI’s investigation into Flynn’s Russia ties during a   February Oval Office meeting that took place the day after Flynn   resigned. ” ’   ”He’’s a good guy,” Trump told Comey, according to a memo Comey   wrote shortly after the meeting. ”I hope you can let this   go.” Though the meeting reportedly took place in February,   news of it didn’’t emerge until later in May, after Trump abruptly   fired Comey.  ’ ’   As the   controversy continued gaining steam in March   and Flynn began emerging as a central focus, his lawyer, Robert   Kelner, asked for immunity for Flynn in exchange for his   testimony on Russian election interference. Flynn previously    in 2016 that ”when you are given immunity, that   means you probably committed a crime.”  ’ ’   Flynn has so far not been granted immunity in exchange for his   testimony, and he  against   and declined   a Senate Intelligence Committee subpoena. He was also recently   subpoenaed by the House Intelligence Committee, as was his   lobbying firm, Flynn Intel Group. He has not yet responded to the   subpoenas.  ’ ’Russian President Vladimir Putin said. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’