’  ’ ’   Reality Leigh Winner, a    National Security Agency   contractor, reportedly  this week that she was behind the leak of a document   claiming that hackers connected to Russian military intelligence    days before the 2016   election. ’ ’   Her confession came after The Intercept published a story based   on the document. ’ ’   Winner was arrested in Georgia on Saturday and charged with   leaking   intelligence to a news outlet, and she   confessed on Monday. In the time since her identity was made   public, a number of questions have been raised about how she   gained   security clearance and obtained access to such   sensitive information. ’ ”   It’s not unusual for government contractors to have     clearance, said Bob Deitz, former top counsel at the NSA. ” ’   ”When you’’re hired for a position that requires a security   clearance, you must receive that clearance,” Deitz said. As a   contractor for the NSA with Pluribus International, Winner was   granted that clearance. ’ ’’ ”   It’s also common for the NSA to hire younger professionals, like      Winner, to do sensitive work for the agency. ” ’   ”The vast majority of people who do the National Security   Agency’’s intercept work, who translate and analyze  —   most of them   are fresh out of high school,” intelligence historian Matthew Aid   .   ”There are thousands of 18 to    doing critically   important and secret work around the world.” ’ ’   Deitz echoed that assessment and said that there are plenty of   people with   clearances who are recent college   graduates. Edward Snowden, the NSA contractor who leaked     documents about the US spying on Americans, was 29   years old in 2013 at the time of the leaks. ’ ”   But having a   clearance doesn’t necessarily mean   Winner was privy to any and all information that was classified   Top Secret, like the Russian hacking document. ” ’   ”One must be ’’read into’’ a program in order to receive classified   information related to that program,” Deitz said. What someone is   read into depends entirely on their job. ’ ’  ’ ’   She is also reportedly fluent in several languages, . If she was read into the program the leaked document   originated from, she may have had the clearance to view it. ’ ’   ”But it would be both unusual and wrong” to view     intelligence ”just out of curiosity,” Deitz said.  ’ ’Reality Leigh Winner, a    National. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’