’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s aides are reportedly bracing for the   president’s response to FBI Director James Comey’s Thursday   Senate testimony, which comes after Trump fired him last month. ” ’ on Wednesday that Trump has   spent the last several days ”seething” about ”fake news” while   watching cable TV and tweeting without regard for his advisers’’   advice. ’ ’   Major cable news networks have featured countdowns this week to   Comey’’s live testimony, which will interrupt regular programming   and is  ”Washington’’s Super Bowl.” ’ ’   The Post described Trump as ”consumed, haunted and antagonized”   by the FBI’’s investigation into possible collusion between his   campaign aides and the Russian government and ”spoiling for a   fight” with Comey. ’ ’   ”He’’s infuriated at a   personal level that the elite   media has tolerated [the Russia story] and praised Comey,” former   House speaker Newt Gingrich . ”He’’s not going to let some guy like that   smear him without punching him as hard as he can.” ’ ’’ ”   Dozens of White House aides and others close to the president   told the Post that Trump is being encouraged by his top lawyers   and advisers to refrain from commenting on Comey’s testimony on   Twitter. But they fear the president will ignore their   recommendations. ” ”   Washington Post reporter Robert Costa  sources told him that Trump might even live   tweet the Comey hearing if he feels the need to respond to   Comey’s testimony. ” ”   They also expressed concern about the political and legal   repercussions of Trump’s unpredictable behavior, and expressed   dismay that the president does not seem capable of focusing on   his administration’s policy agenda.  ” ’   One Republican allied with the White House  aides’’ response to Trump’’s public reactions as:   ”Please, don’’t, you’’re not helping things.” ’ ’   Trump has blasted Comey on Twitter repeatedly since firing him. ’ ’   In May, Trump : ”James Comey better hope that there are no ’’tapes’’   of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” ’ ’   Trump  investigations into whether his campaign   colluded with Russians a ”witch hunt.” ’ ” on Wednesday that Trump’s aides   are crafting a response to Comey’s testimony that   will attempt to undermine him and deflect attention away   from his allegations, which Comey detailed in a  released by the Senate on Wednesday   afternoon. ” ’   Sources told the Post that Trump’’s team is planning portray   Comey as a ”showboat”  —   a term Trump has used to describe him. A   set of relatively   surrogates are prepared to appear   on conservative media outlets on Thursday in an attempt   to disseminate the White House’’s message.  ’ ”   And Trump’s messaging is being supported by allied groups   outside the White House. ” ’   ”If we feel he crosses a line, we’’ll fire back,” said Ed Rollins,   the chief strategist at the conservative Great America PAC,   . ’ ”   Just the day before Comey’s scheduled appearance, Trump  for FBI Director,   Christopher Wray, a former assistant attorney general under   George W. Bush who served as New Jersey Gov. Chris   Christie’s personal attorney during the Bridgegate scandal.  ” ”President Donald Trump’s aides are reportedly. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’