’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s approval rating fell to a new low on   Wednesday, dropping from 37% to 34% according to a new poll   conducted by . ” ”   The poll found that 57% of voters disapprove of the president’s   performance, a figure approaching Trump’s record high of 58%   from April. ” ”   Trump’s approval rating was heavily correlated to party   affiliation  —   81% of Republican respondents expressed   approval of Trump’s performance, while a paltry 4% of Democrats   said the same. Trump earned praise from 35% of independents. ” ’   The poll caps a   period that was fraught with   unpopular moves from the president. Last week, Trump   announced his intent to withdraw from the Paris climate   agreement, a move that 62% of poll respondents disapproved of.   The president was earned scorn last week for criticizing the   mayor of London in the aftermath of a deadly terrorist attack in   London. ’ ”   The poll also comes amid mounting scrutiny surrounding the   FBI’s investigation into Trump and campaign associates’ possible   ties to Russian interference during the 2016 election. Former FBI   Director James Comey, whom Trump fired in May, is due to testify   before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday, when he   will  about his private interactions with Trump. ” ’’ ”   The numbers reflect the public’s growing distrust surrounding   possible   connections  —   31% of respondents said Trump   did something illegal in dealing with Russia, with an additional   29% saying he did something unethical but not illegal. ” ”   The numbers rose when voters were asked about Trump’s campaign   advisers  —   40% said they did something illegal in dealing with   Russia, and an 25% said they did something unethical but not   illegal. ” ’   More than two thirds of voters  —   68%  —   reported they were ”very   concerned” or ”somewhat concerned” about Trump’’s relationship   with Russia. And 54% said the president was too close to the   foreign power. ’ ’   32% of respondents said Trump did nothing wrong with Russia. ’ ’   ”There is zero good news for President Donald Trump in this   survey, just a continual slide into a chasm of doubt about his   policies and his very fitness to serve,” Tim Malloy, assistant   director of the Quinnipiac poll, said in a statement. ’ ”President Donald Trump’s approval rating fell. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’