’  ’ ”   Former FBI Director James Comey’s blockbuster Thursday hearing   provided several bruising moments for President Donald   Trump. ” ’   Comey, who Trump fired in early May,  ”because of the Russia investigation,” amplifying calls   that Trump was obstructing justice. He said he took Trump’’s   comments that he ”hoped”  to ”let go” of the investigation into former   national security adviser Michael Flynn ”as a direction.” ’ ’   Comey said he kept memos on his conversations with the president    —   a move he said he did not do with two prior presidents or other   top Justice Department officials  —    ”was   honestly concerned that he might lie about the nature of our   meeting.” ’ ’   And he said that, in firing him from the top FBI post, Trump and   his administration tried to ”defame” him by spreading ”lies,   plain and simple” after his departure, citing Trump’’s ”shifting   explanations,”    included Trump going on TV and ”saying that he actually fired me   because of the Russia investigation.” ’ ”   Yet among all that, Republicans and supporters of the   president were still able to walk away from Thursday’s hearing   with surprising optimism. Trump’s allies suggested the testimony   didn’t provide a proverbial smoking gun, and they emerged with   options to try to shift the conversation. ” ”   Comey, for one, suggested that the Flynn investigation, if   dropped, likely would not alter the course of the FBI’s larger   probe into Russia’s election meddling and the Trump campaign’s   role in it. Trump’s supporters also took grievance with Comey’s   stunning admission that he instructed a good friend  —     —   to provide the press with information on his   memos because he felt the investigation may have reached the   point at which a special counsel needed to be appointed. ” ’   Perhaps looming largest, though, were  Attorney General Loretta Lynch and the investigation   into Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’’s use of a   private email server. Comey said Lynch asked him to refer to the   email probe as a ”matter” instead of an ”investigation,” which he   said ”gave him a queasy feeling.” It echoed language the Clinton   campaign itself was using. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”That was one of the bricks in the load that led me to conclude I   have to step away from the department if we’’re to close this case   credibly,” Comey said, adding that consideration of appointing a   special counsel to oversee the matter was a valid suggestion, but   one that would have been unfair. He reiterated that the facts of   the case did not warrant charges pressed against the former   secretary of state. ’ ’   Fox News host Eric Bolling said on ”The Specialists”  —   making a   point that many in the Trump realm highlighted in similar ways  —     Comey’’s comments on Lynch proved the real ”collusion.” ’ ’  ’ ’ testimony, Trump’’s personal attorney Marc   Kasowitz ripped the former FBI director for ordering the leaked   memos. He even suggested that Comey lied under oath,   disputing the claim that Trump hinted that Comey should drop the   Flynn investigation. Of course, he also noted that Comey ”finally   confirmed publicly” what Trump has insisted: that ”the   president .” ’ ’   Trump personally did not appear to believe Thursday was worth an     fight. Asked about the testimony, Trump ”declined to   comment, only smiling through pursed lips,”    reporter. ’ ’   ”There was no knockout punch,” Matt Mackowiak, a Republican   strategist and president of the Potomac Strategy Group, told   Business Insider in an email. ”Trump will benefit from admission   that he was not under investigation and Comey’’s revelation that   he leaked his own memo to require a special counsel be appointed.   Trump will be harmed [by] inappropriate comments about Flynn made   on the Oval Office, which I do not believe rose to the level of   illegality.” ’ ’   ”Both sides fight on,” he continued. ’ ’   Matthew Whitaker, a former US attorney, executive director of the   conservative Foundation for Accountability and Civic Trust, and   2014 Republican primary candidate in Iowa’’s Senate race, told   Business Insider in an email that Comey’’s testimony made it   ”clear” that ”there is absolutely no criminal case to be made   against President Trump for obstruction of justice.” ’ ’   ”Comey’s testimony simply does not come close to proving an   intent to obstruct justice, let alone facts to support a criminal   case,” he said. ”If there is one thing we learned from the   Hillary Clinton email server investigation, it is that the proof   needed for ’’intent’’ at Comey’s FBI was set very high.” ’ ”   Whitaker, like many on the right, found the biggest news to be   Comey’s revelation about Lynch. ” ’   ”I found it very disturbing to learn that former Attorney General   Loretta Lynch directed then FBI Director Comey to publicly   mischaracterize the probe as just a simple ’’matter,’’” he said.   ”It just reaffirmed my belief that a special prosecutor should   have been assigned from day one to handle that case.” ’ ’   Jed Shugerman, a Fordham law professor, told Business Insider in   an email that Republicans’’ claims in the aftermath of the Comey   hearing ”are not good faith arguments” based on the testimony. He   called many of them ”talking points” that were   ” ” beforehand ”based on a strategy of isolating the   most favorable facts and events, and ignoring other events and   the big picture.” ’ ’   But, he said, the ”  side does not have a slam dunk   today, either.” ’ ’   ”No event in Comey’’s written testimony  —   and not even all of   those conversations together  —   constitutes a clear case of   obstruction,” he said. ”The obstruction case is based on the act   of firing Comey after all of these events and interventions.   Comey’’s testimony is very helpful for establishing intent to   obstruct and impede, but Trump himself already offered enough   evidence of intent when he connected Comey’’s firing with his   purpose to impede the Russia investigation.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Shugerman added that Trump defenders’’ argument that Comey   confirmed Trump was not under investigation  —   prior to Comey’’s   dismissal  —   ”is meaningless.” ’ ’   ”It’’s a bit like a thief telling the prosecutor he was not under   investigation for murder, and it turns out he was not under   investigation for murder,” he said. ”It’’s the confirmation of an   irrelevant fact, and it’’s noise to sound like they are confirming   Trump’’s story.” ’ ’   For Shugerman, the biggest takeaway from the hearing was how   ”serious” Republicans on the committee were in ”asking tough, but   fair questions” and ”respectfully giving Comey a full chance to   answer.” ’ ’   ”By asking good questions, they gave Comey a chance to clarify   the context in very damaging ways,” he said, noting exchanges   that involved how Comey felt about Trump’’s asking if the FBI   director could ”let go” of the Flynn investigation, and about the   exchange Comey and Trump had involving FBI Deputy Director Andrew   McCabe. ’ ’   ”The big picture here is that the Republicans are investigating   seriously, not obstructing,” he said. ”None of them were willing   to take on the role of attack dog, unlike the famous example of   Arlen Specter in the Clarence Thomas hearings, or Trey Gowdy in   the Benghazi hearings, or in the   Commission. A   PAC   sent a signal of a strategy to tear at [Comey’’s] credibility with   ads, but none of the Republican senators followed. That’’s very   significant.” ’ ’   Shugerman acknowledged that the Lynch revelation is now ”a real   subject to investigate further,” calling the pressuring of Comey   to use ”matter” instead of ”investigation” a ”huge mistake” and   ”a partisan intrusion” on Lynch’’s part. ’ ’   It ”probably changed history by making Comey more skeptical about   her and the Clintons’’ role,” he said. ”I inferred that it had an   effect on Comey that may have changed how he handled the   investigation later. She will face very tough questions. And it   validates the   questions on the Clinton campaign on   their handling the email.” ’ ’   ”We will hear a lot about this,” he continued. ”It does not rise   to obstruction, because it was   not the   substance of investigation, but Comey was right to be troubled.   Lynch and [President] Bill Clinton should be called to testify   and explain their behavior. What’’s obstruction for the goose is   obstruction for the gander.” ’ ’   Andrew Wright, a law professor at Savannah Law School, told   Business Insider in an email that Comey’’s direction to leak the   memos, while not criminal or ”privileged,” as Trump’’s   lawyer argued, does appear ”retaliatory” and ”gives fodder   to Comey’’s critics.” ’ ’   But his main takeaways from the hearing did not involve some of   the popular talking points on the right. He focused on how   Comey called Trump and his staff ”liars,” saying that Comey   ”thought so little of   Trump’’s first briefing   reaction he started documenting everything” and pointing out that   Comey ”gave a first person account of an obstruction narrative.” ’ ’   He mentioned Comey’’s referencing of Trump ”dangling” his job   before him, asking for his loyalty, suggesting he drop the Flynn   investigation, and firing him for reasons related to the Russia   investigation. And he said ”we can infer” special counsel Robert   Mueller ”is investigating Donald Trump for obstruction of   justice” based on Comey’’s testimony. ’ ’   ”It was not a tie or pure Rorschach test, it was a very damaging   day for President Trump,” he said. ”There were some kernels for   White House defenders that will help GOP talking points. Also,   there were no ’’the president ordered the Code Red’’ moment. But   the obstruction narrative was enhanced.” ’ ”James Comey’s testimony pulled few punches at. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’