’  ’ ’   In his testimony on Thursday, James Comey, the fired FBI   director, made clear that President Donald Trump did not ask him   to close the broad Russia inquiry. Rather, when Trump asked Comey   to ”let this go,” Trump was referring specifically to the   ancillary criminal investigation into whether former national   security adviser Michael Flynn lied to FBI investigators. ’ ’   So Sen. Angus King asked Comey whether  would have interfered with the broader   Russia investigation. ’ ’   ”No,” Comey said. Then he paused to think, and said it was   ”unlikely.” And then he described how halting the criminal   inquiry into Flynn could possibly interfere with the   broader counterintelligence investigation. ’ ’   ”There is always a possibility if you have a criminal case   against someone and you bring it and squeeze them, you flip them,   and they give you information about something else,” Comey said. ’ ’   Trump talks a lot about ”loyalty,” but loyalty for him is usually   a   street: Others are supposed to be loyal to him. Comey   even said Trump  if the Russia investigation flushed out untoward   activity by other campaign satellites of his. ’ ’’ ”   But when it came to Flynn, Trump leaned on Comey to back off.   With Flynn, Trump’s loyalty is a   street. Why? Is it that   he has special personal affection for Flynn? Or is it because he   is afraid of what Flynn might tell prosecutors to get out from   under a criminal investigation? ” ”   I am not positing that Trump and Flynn engaged in a treasonous,   quid pro quo scheme with the Russians. That seems too   complicated, and there are simpler explanations for Trump’s     behavior and Russia’s   behavior. ” ’   But I am positing that Trump is a person with no ethical   standards who openly describes himself as ”greedy,” and that   Flynn is a person who has shown a willingness to  from hostile and   foreign powers and   then act in his official capacities to benefit those foreign   powers. And I am positing that Trump and Flynn tended to get up   to no good together. ’ ’   Who knows what unknown unknowns are out there  —   and what Trump   and his buddy Flynn could have gotten up to. ’ ’   ”In any complex investigation, when you start turning over rocks,   sometimes you find things that are unrelated to the primary   investigation that are criminal in nature,” Comey said on   Thursday. ’ ’   There are certain rocks that Trump seems to have really not   wanted turned over  —   rocks he told the FBI director he ”hoped” he   would not turn over, and rocks over which he seems to have fired   the FBI director out of his frustration that they might be turned   over. ’ ”   I would like to know what’s under those rocks. ” ’In his testimony on Thursday, James Comey, the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’