’  ’ ’   The Justice Department  the US Constitution by   accepting payments from foreign governments without congressional   approval at his litany of Trump Organization businesses, hoping   to have a lawsuit claiming otherwise thrown out in federal court. ’ ”   The government claimed that if the Emoluments Clause  —   a section   of the Constitution that bars members of the government from   receiving such payments or gifts from foreign governments without   congressional approval  —    is interpreted to mean that Trump   cannot accept such payments at his hotels, golf course, and other   venues, that reading would mean even the nation’s first   president, George Washington, would have been found in violation. ” ’   In the Friday filing, the government argued that the clause   does not apply to   transactions, such as hotel bills   or   fees. The Justice Department is asking a New York   judge to throw out a lawsuit filed by the   watchdog   group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, which   sued Trump in late January under the claim that he was already   violating that clause of the Constitution. ’ ’   In its filing, the Justice Department wrote that ”neither the   text nor the history of the clauses shows that they were intended   to reach benefits arising from a president’s private business   pursuits having nothing to do with his office or personal service   to a foreign power.” ’ ’   ”Were plaintiffs’ interpretation correct, presidents from the   very beginning of the Republic, including George Washington,   would have received prohibited ‘emoluments,’’” the US government   filing said. The filing argued CREW did not have the standing to   file a suit. ’ ’’ ”   CREW, which has been leading force in combating the   administration on   issues, is additionally seeking   access to Trump’s taxes in the suit. ” ’   ”It’’s clear from the government’’s response that they don’’t   believe anyone can go to court to stop the president from   systematically violating the constitution,” CREW   communications director Jordan Libowitz said in a statement. ”We   heartily disagree and look forward to our day in court.” ’ ’   Just prior to taking office, Trump announced he had turned over   control of his businesses to his eldest sons, Eric and Donald   Jr. in addition to a top Trump Organization official. The Trumps   pledged to make no new deals outside of the US as a part of the   agreement. But CREW, along with leading Democrats and ethicists,   have called for Trump to either place his businesses into a blind   trust or liquidate his assets. ’ ’The Justice Department argued Friday that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’