’  ’ ’   On Monday, . ’ ’   ”We’’re proposing reduced wait times, increased route efficiency,   and far fewer delays,” the president said. ”Our plan will get you   where you need to go quickly, more reliably, more affordably,   and, yes, for the first time in a long time, on time.” ’ ’   In fact, the president went as far as calling it an ”    revolution.” ’ ’   The White House plan will use the Aviation Innovation, Reform,   and Reauthorization Act ( introduced in 2016 by   the Republication Congressman Bill Schuster as its foundation. ’ ”   The centerpiece of the AIRR calls for control of the country’s     network to be transferred from the Federal Aviation   Administration to one or more    private entities. ” ”   The privatization of America’s    network has   long been a   issue. The White House argues that its   plan would allow the FAA to focus on aviation safety while   freeing the   process from the burden of bureaucracy. ” ’   Privatization is expected to be achieved through the use of    a   business arrangement in   which the public and private sectors cooperate to deliver a   service or infrastructure project. ’ ’   The advantages of a P3 are twofold. First, proponents say they   can reduce the cost of a project by streamlining bureaucracy.   Second, P3s are more effective in that they contract specialists   whose expertise is focused on a particular subject area. ’ ’  ’ ’   In addition, the cost of the modernization project is expected to   be shouldered by fees generated from the parties that use the ATC   system. ’ ’   Privatization’’s biggest proponents are the country’’s major   airlines represented by the trade organization Airlines For   America (A4A). In a statement, the group called Trump’’s   announcement ”bold leadership in prioritizing the modernization   of our nation’s air traffic control (ATC) infrastructure.” ’ ’   ”This is a really important issue for the entire country,”   Hawaiian Airlines Chief Commercial Officer Peter Ingram told   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”If you look at service between the Eastern US and the West   Coast, flight times today are much longer than they were 20 or 30   years ago, and it’’s not because the airplanes are moving slower  —     it’’s because we confine ourselves to a fraction of the available   airspace because we simply don’’t have the ATC infrastructure to   be able to support taking full advantage of that.” ’ ’   In addition, Hawaiian, a member of A4A, and other carriers are   limited to a handful of lanes across the Pacific, which often   results in less efficient routing that causes more pollution and   higher costs, Ingram said. ’ ”   According to A4A  —   which includes American, United, JetBlue,   Alaska, and Southwest Airlines  —   antiquated     technology has contributed to delays that cost the economy as   much as $25 billion last year. As a result, the airlines are   standing behind the president’s promises to expedite the   modernization of the country’s ATC systems by updating     technology through privatization. ” ’  ’ ’   ”It’’s not for lack of technology or lack of will to get   [modernization] done,” Ingram said. ”We, fundamentally, as an   industry believe that in the confines of the annual government   budgetary system, we are not going to be able to make the   necessary investment to fix the system even if there is the will   to spend the money.” ’ ”   Opponents of the plan believe the privatization of the country’s   ATC systems is fraught with risk and negative side effects. ” ’   The Alliance for Aviation Across America argues that   privatization would hurt the nation’’s smaller communities. In   fact, the organization  —   which represents private operators,   small business, and small airports  —   called Trump’’s plan a ”power   grab” by the nation’’s big airlines. ’ ’   ”We have 5, 000 airports around the country of which 3, 000 are     airports, but the majority of the commercial traffic,   about 70% goes through roughly 30 airports,” Selena Shilad, the   alliance’’s executive director, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”So there are a lot of communities who are served by smaller   airports or by municipal airports where the airlines will have no   incentive to concentrate their resources.” ’ ’   According to Shilad, the airlines have long sought control of the   ATC network to funnel resources to the markets that they care   about the most. The alliance believes that the      system supported by A4A would be detrimental to the smaller   operators that dot the American landscape. ’ ’   ”Our infrastructure that connects large and small communities   alike are crucial parts of the economy and access for communities   of all sizes is an important part of keeping that economic engine   going,” Shilad said. ’ ’   At least one major airline agrees with Shilad. ’ ”   In a 2016 report,  and a former A4A member,   lends credence to the alliance’s concerns. ” ’   ”The current FAA system helps support equal service at both large   urban airports and smaller rural ones, but privatization could   cause smaller airports to limit service or shut down,” the Delta   report said. ”As a result, rural residents could be forced to   drive to urban areas to access the same airline service they   currently enjoy close to home.” ’ ”   In addition, Delta questions whether it is prudent to privatize   ATC when the   system has evolved into the world’s   largest networks  —   and one of its safest. ” ’  ’ ’   The   airline also questions whether privatization   would lead to lower costs. According to the report, ATC fees   in Canada and the UK increased 59% and 30% after the countries   privatized their respective ATC systems. ’ ’   During that same period, ATC fees in the US increased just 6%.   The Delta report concludes that operational costs in the US will   increase by 20% to 29% during the first 10 years of a privatized   ATC network. ’ ”   As for the Trump administration’s plan, the airline wrote in a   statement to Business Insider: ” ”   As the debate over ATC privatization rages on, it should be noted   that a modernized ATC system is not the silver bullet some make   it out to be. It will not cure all that ails America’s aviation   network. ” ’   ”Even the most sophisticated ATC system is not going to solve the   chronic delay problem that plagues much of the country,”  wrote in a blog post. ”The   problem won’t be solved until two things happen: First, airlines   need to be better rationalize their schedules and, second, we   need more runways and larger,   airports.” ’ ”   Hawaiian’s Ingram agrees. ” ’   ”I think [ATC and airport infrastructure] are both big issues,”   he said. ”There are airports throughout the US where the   infrastructure is no longer adequate or we could use more   capacity because things are very constrained.” ’ ”   Regardless of what happens, the fact that there is an open   acknowledgment that America’s    system and   aviation infrastructure are in dire need of improvement is a   step in the right direction. ” ’President Trump has proposed a plan to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’