’  ’ ’   Draymond Green and LeBron James may be done competing on the   court until next season, but their battle of trolling and     supremacy is only beginning. ’ ’   While celebrating the Golden State Warriors’’ title at the team’’s   championship parade on Thursday, Green was spotted wearing a   shirt adorned with a picture of the Larry O’’Brien Trophy and the   word ”Quickie.” It was a   joke that referenced both   the efficiency with which the Warriors finished off the Cleveland   Cavaliers and the Cavs’’ home stadium, the Quicken Loans Arena. ’ ’   It was    shot at the Cavs and a bit of revenge   directed at James, given the  after the Cavaliers came out   victorious. ’ ’ ’ ’Draymond Green: ”I can’’t forget the Ultimate Warrior shirt from LeBron. The   tombstone cookies. I was waiting on this moment. I’’m petty.” ’ ’   It was easy to think James would miss the remark. After all, he   had been seen on Instagram earlier in the day too busy in the gym   dancing, working, and showing off his newly shaven head to spend   time watching the Warriors celebrate the title. ’ ’ ’ ”   But as the parade continued, James became aware of the shirt and   was ready to zing back at Green with one of the internet’s most      jokes. ” ’   James hit Green with a ”That’’s what she said.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWarriors won the title. Lebron won the internet.  ’ ’   The internet took notice and was quick to declare James had won   the internet for the day. At the moment, it was true  —   James had   trolled the troller. It was a move of   jiujitsu the   likes of which is rarely seen, especially among such     personalities. ’ ”   The move was so vicious that other NBA players got involved.   James’ teammates JR Smith and Tristan Thompson popped into the   comments to show their support for the Cavs superstar with a few   emojis. ” ”   Even more   however, were the likes on James’ post  —     notably those of Russell Westbrook and James Harden, former   teammates of Kevin Durant’s in Oklahoma City. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tthe ”liked by” is the funniest thing here tbh  ’ ’   For a moment, it seemed as though the flame war had settled. The   Warriors had gotten the best of the Cavs on the court, James had   gotten the best of Green, and players from around the league had   shared a final chuckle together before the offseason. ’ ’   But Green wasn’’t going to give up that easily. He shared a pic of   the freshly shorn head of James with the caption ”Them dubs   finally made him go bald! !!” with ”Dubs” being a popular moniker   for the Warriors. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDRAYMOND GREEN NO INSTAGRAM KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK  ’ ’   This is a certified ”shots fired” situation. ’ ”   No word yet on which players from around the league have liked   Green’s post, but rest assured     followers   are on the case. ” ’   As for now, it appears Dray has struck the final blow in this   meme war. But the night is still young, and we might be seeing   the . ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBest league ever  ’ ’Draymond Green and LeBron James may be done. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’