’  ’ ’  Update: Due to poor weather conditions, NASA delayed   the launch  between 9:05 and 9:20 p. m.   EDT.  ’ ’   For the last two weeks, NASA has been waiting for the right   moment to launch a rocket that will puff clouds of red and     vapor out into space. ’ ’   The rocket was originally supposed to launch on May 31, but bad   weather and poor visibility have pushed the mission back quite a   few times. The next attempt will be made  with a hopeful liftoff time between 9:05 p. m. and   9:20 p. m. EDT. ’ ”   To find out if the launch is a go, you can check the facility’s    or  ” ’   If the skies are clear enough, the sounding rocket carrying the   experiment will launch from NASA’’s Wallops Flight Facility in   Virginia. In that case, many people on the US East Coast  —   as far   north as New York City  —   may see brightly colored puffs of   ”” more than 90 miles above Earth.  ’ ’   The psychedelic space clouds should appear low on the southern   horizon about 5 minutes after the rocket launch. ’ ’   ”I’’ve seen some of these tests where the clouds really filled the   sky,” Keith Koehler, a NASA Wallops spokesperson, told Business   Insider. ”My guess is if you held your fist up, that might be the   size of the clouds [close to the launch site].” ’ ’  ’ ”   If you won’t be in the area at that time, don’t fret: NASA   Wallops will host live video  with coverage kicking   off around 8:30 p. m. EDT. (A player is embedded at the end of   this post.) ” ”   NASA’s space clouds, however, aren’t merely for show. ” ’   The experiment is one of many missions in an international   ”” initiative aimed   at helping scientists probe two gaping holes in Earth’’s   protective magnetic shield, called cusps. ’ ’ ’ ’   The two holes in our invisible shield leak nearly  according to Astronomy Now. ’ ”   The magnetic bubble that surrounds our planet is vital to life,   since it deflects the sun’s constant wind of     particles  —   and protects against the occasional . Without this invisible force field, Earth may   have gone the way of Mars, which lost its magnetic dynamo   billions of years ago. That allowed the sun to blow most of the   Martian atmosphere  turning a once wet and  world into a dry and . ” ’  ’ ”   We won’t run out of air anytime soon (thankfully, our planet has   quadrillions of tons left) but scientists are still struggling   to understand how the cusps work. In particular, they want to   make them visible  —   which is where the colored clouds come into   play. ” ”   Launching tracer vapors such as barium (green)     ( ) and strontium (red) into the Earth’s ionosphere  —     where charged air particles and the solar wind interact  —   will   show how the clouds move through the region. This data could then   help verify and update computer models of the fringes of Earth’s   atmosphere. ” ’   Those models, in turn, may help researchers better understand all   sorts of   phenomena, including auroras,   —   and why a planet like Mars lost all its   air while ours has held on to its atmosphere. ’ ’   Koehler says nearly all   missions, except for a few    spew the vapors directly out of the rocket   body. This limits the data that scientists can collect from the   ground, however, because the colored clouds are close together   and often hard to distinguish. ’ ’   The upcoming launch will test a new method: Shooting lightweight   canisters, called ampules, out of the sides of the rocket. The 10   canisters are expected to travel 6 to 12 miles before they start   releasing vapor, which should make a constellation of colored   clouds that are easy to distinguish and follow from the ground. ’ ’   ”They’’re made of aluminum and about the size of a Coke can,”   Koehler said of the ampules. ’ ’  ’ ”   The chemical tracer clouds aren’t easily observable by themselves    —   they react to sunlight. So to maximize their visibility, the   launch will happen when it’s dark on the ground, yet the sun is   still visible from space. ” ’   ”These launches have to occur just after sunset or right before   sunrise. You need sunlight to hit the vapors and activate them as   they’’re released,” Koehler said. ”Auroras dance across the sky,   and this is not that.” ’ ”   If the launch does happen (though we don’t necessarily recommend   getting your hopes up) you can watch NASA Wallops’ live video   stream in the player below starting around 8:30 p. m.   EDT.  ” ’ ’ ’Update: Due to poor weather conditions, NASA. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’