’  ’ ’   Elon Musk is a busy guy. ’ ”   He’s developing  and  (with the goal of getting humans to Mars).  ” ”Given Musk’s ambitiousness, it’s not totally surprising that   he is also  that will look into ways to link human   brains to computers. Musk reportedly  on  which will develop   technology to integrate brains and computers as a way   to fix medical problems and eventually supercharge human   cognition. ” ”   Existing   interfaces, which are relatively   simple compared to Musks’s goals, can connect to a few hundred   brain cells at a time. Those are . Once researcher are able to understanding and   connect interfaces to the 100 billion neurons in the brain, these   linkages could essentially . ” ”   That potential has clearly captured Musk’s interest, but this new   project also seems to stem from his concerns about     artificial intelligence (AI). ” ’ of  has a  that gives him unique access to   insight into the tech mogul. Urban suggests Musk is betting on   the possibility that melding human and artificial   intelligence will make us more likely to survive the   emergence of   (and  ) AI. ’ ”   Urban wrote an excellent 38, 000 word  and AI’s existential threat to humanity, but   he gave a short version of this idea to author Virginia   Heffernan in a  ” ’   The threat Urban is referring to is that AI could in theory   lead to intelligent machines that become exponentially ”smarter”   than humans. In the hands of a bad or insane actor  —   or in a   situation in which AI were to somehow go rogue  —   that could pose   an existential threat to humanity. ’ ”   Musk isn’t the only one with these fears  —   people like Stephen   Hawking and Bill Gates .  ” ’  ’ ”   Connecting our own brains to the digital world, however,   could allow individual humans to make use of the same sort   of computing power and intelligence. In that case, there’d   be many equally intelligent and powerful actors out there.   Basically anyone with sufficient means and desire to harness   the power of AI could do so. In that sense, Musk’s venture could   be seen as a sort of mass deterrence system. ” ’   Musk sees the emergence of AI as ”inevitable,” and   has another  to develop a safe path towards artificial   intelligence. But the rise of   AI is most   likely still far away. ’ ”     interfaces still have a ways to go, too. The   relatively simple systems that already exist can send   movement signals to prosthetic arms, or function as ears or eyes   for people unable to see or hear. But more complex interfaces   could one day allow the brain to directly connect to the cloud or   to the mind of another person in a given network. Urban   mentions these applications as potential   goals, though   they’re completely beyond modern technology. ” ’   In fact, we’’re still in the early stages of understanding the   brain, which  chief scientific officer of the Allen   Institute for Brain Science, has described as the ”most   complex object in the universe.” ’ ’   Furthermore, even if the technology were to become available,   most Americans are not enthusiastic about brain computer   interfaces,  by Pew. ’ ”   But as Musk sees it, we’re closer to that future than we think. ” ’   ”We already have a digital tertiary layer in a sense, in that you   have your computer or your phone or your applications,” Musk told   Urban. ”The thing that people, I think, don’t appreciate right   now is that they are already a cyborg. You’re already a different   creature than you would have been twenty years ago, or even ten   years ago . .. If you leave your phone behind, it’s like   missing limb syndrome.” ’ ’   Musk also told Urban that he thinks healthy people will be able   to start using some sort of   interface for   cognitive enhancement within the next 8 to 10 years. If that   happens, the minds working on understanding our own brain and   trying to develop new  interfaces will grow even   smarter, quicker, and more powerful. ’ ”Elon Musk is a busy guy. He’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’