Michael Marrero discovered just how fragile his family’s circumstances were when his wife and son were unexpectedly hospitalized with a rare disease. Mr. Marrero, a butcher, could not cobble together enough money to pay the medical bills and the cost of getting to and from doctor appointments, as well as the family’s everyday expenses. The bills mounted and went unpaid as the family tried to decide which to settle up first. The Marreros were evicted from their apartment in January and have been living in a shelter since then. Desperate for help, they turned to the Children’s Aid Society, one of the eight beneficiary organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Neediest Cases Fund was born in 1912, the year after Adolph S. Ochs, then the publisher of The New York Times, gave a stranger money for shelter and new clothes on Christmas Day. The first campaign lasted nine days and collected $3, 630. 88, about $86, 575 in today’s dollars, from 117 contributors. The fund begins its 105th campaign on Sunday, adding its first beneficiary organization in decades, as the country rebounds from a crippling recession that has left some New Yorkers still searching for a recovery of their own. But it is not just those knocked down by economic forces who have sought assistance, often from overburdened social service groups trying to supply a lifeline. Those in need of help can often pinpoint the moment they slipped into poverty, homelessness or despair. For Gertrudis Torres, it was after her husband died of throat cancer and she faced soaring bills for her own cancer treatment. For Latoya Farquharson, it was when her boyfriend went to prison and she had to raise their two children and pay the rent on a cleaner’s salary. For David Nublett, it was when he was hit by a car in the Bronx and could no longer work or get up and down the stairs to his   apartment by himself. Since it was founded, the Neediest Cases Fund has assisted thousands of children, families, single parents and retirees. They have received counseling, job training and other social services. Often, the help is more tangible: $65 to cover a college application fee $150 for a tablet computer $500 for baby clothes, a stroller and a crib. The Times pays the fund’s overhead costs, with all donations going directly to the beneficiary organizations. Contributions will be collected through Feb. 10. Private social service organizations have stepped in to try to offset cuts to public assistance at the local, state and federal levels. They have worked to meet the needs not only of those born into families who rely on aid and have long been unable to escape poverty, but also of those who have fallen from the lower tiers of the middle class. From 2010 to 2014, according to the United States Census Bureau, 15. 6 percent of New Yorkers lived in poverty among children, 22. 1 percent belonged to families living below the poverty line. This year, according to data compiled by New York City, nearly 62, 000 homeless people slept in city’s shelters every night in September, about twice as many as during the depths of the financial crisis. “We do the whole cowboy thing of, get on your horse, take your gun, shoot the problem and then you move on and everything’s fine,” said Toba Kerson, a retired professor of social work at Bryn Mawr College. “And that’s not what most of these problems are: They’re chronic. ” “We blame people for things they absolutely cannot help, that are circumstantial as opposed to something that came from within them,” she added. The role of government in providing welfare services has ebbed and flowed over time, from the creation of Social Security during the Great Depression to President Lyndon B. Johnson’s war on poverty in the 1960s to more recent efforts by politicians to scale back social welfare programs. Though such programs have generally improved the lives of people they serve, a large percentage of poor Americans are unable to receive the benefits, said Michael Lipsky, the author of “  Bureaucracy,” a history of   welfare and public service. As a result of lifetime benefit limits and reductions in aid by state governments, he said, less than a quarter of children in poverty across the country receive assistance now, down from   in recent decades. “The poorest of the poor are less well served than they were 20 years ago,” Mr. Lipsky said. “Benefits have been siphoned off. There is less in the aid package than there was. Despite some improvements, the poorest of the poor are not better off. ” Private donations, like those from the Neediest Cases Fund, can help fill those gaps, he said. And today, social service groups are having to adapt to a new landscape of philanthropy. The effects of the financial crisis included a decline in charitable giving, and while donations have risen steadily in the years since, Americans have not been as generous as they were before the downturn. The recession also changed opinions about those who seek assistance, said Judith McCoyd, associate professor at the School of Social Work at Rutgers University. “People looked around and thought, ‘Gee, if this is happening to Uncle Bud and that’s happening to my friend down the street and to all of these people I know,’” she said. “For this short little period of time, people recognized, ‘Wow, bad things do happen to good people. ’” But, she added, Americans’ empathy for those who are not like them has been tested during what was a bitter presidential campaign. Donations to the Neediest Cases campaign surpassed $4 million in the 1990s, topped $6 million in 1998 and peaked at $9. 8 million in 2001. In recent years, contributions have dipped below $6 million last year’s campaign raised $5. 7 million. The need for donations remains as pressing as ever, across all demographics. The International Rescue Committee, which is based in New York City and joins the Neediest Cases Fund this year as the eighth beneficiary organization, serves people across the United States and around the world. Four of the eight organizations supported by the Neediest Cases Fund have religious ties, but all assist anyone in need of help, regardless of their faith. “Sometimes people hear the word ‘Catholic’ and think we’re exclusive to the people we serve,” said Msgr. Alfred LoPinto of Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens. “But it’s important for people to understand that we never ask about anyone’s religious background or beliefs, nor question their ethnicity, orientation or anything like that. We love them as our brothers and sisters, and we want to walk with them as they rebuild their lives. ” The year was 1865. The Civil War had just ended, and homeless, wounded Union soldiers, as well as children orphaned by the war, were living on the streets of Brooklyn. Many of the young boys sold newspapers  —   the original “newsies. ” A predecessor to Brooklyn Community Services was in its first year of existence. Responding to the need, the organization provided orphaned boys with beds, food and schooling. The organization’s focus is much the same today. It provides   and   education, youth development, child abuse prevention services, job training and services for people with mental illness and those who are disabled. It has 25 locations throughout Brooklyn, including the Brooklyn High School for Leadership and Community Service, where   students receive    training. Money raised through the Neediest Cases Fund goes to support   needs and service development. Catholic Charities was founded in 1917 primarily to help improve the lives of children suffering from poverty, abuse and neglect. It still focuses on children, while supporting families coping with hunger, homelessness and other hardships. The organization also works to welcome new immigrants to the United States, including refugees hoping to make New York their home. Catholic Charities is a federation of around 90 charitable agencies in the New York area, serving up to 400, 000 people every year. Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens started in 1899 with a concentration on child welfare, serving families in need, particularly those in immigrant communities. While the organization continues to assist immigrants, it has expanded its mission to include, among other things, aiding those with mental illness and housing homeless people. Money raised through the Neediest Cases Fund goes largely to emergency relief services, especially housing assistance. The organization provides more than 3, 000 units of affordable housing. “We’re not just providing a roof over people’s heads,” said Monsignior LoPinto, the organization’s chief executive. “But also a comprehensive service that helps them rebuild their lives and add stability. We cover A to Z. ” The founding of the Children’s Aid Society, in 1853, is linked to the development of the American child welfare system. At the turn of the 19th century, many immigrant children who had been orphaned were pushed onto New York City’s streets. Today, the society focuses on early education, health and wellness, family and home, and social and emotional development at more than 50 locations across the five boroughs and in Westchester County, N. Y. Money raised through the Neediest Cases Fund provides children with sundry items, from prom dresses to textbooks, that help them live normal lives. Community Service Society was founded when two nonprofits merged in 1939: the Charity Organization Society, founded in 1882, and the Association for the Improvement of the Condition of the Poor, in 1843. Community Service Society helps young people make the transition from school to work, ensuring that they have the tools and knowledge to enter the job market and begin a successful career. Community Service Society enrolls New Yorkers in health insurance, helps them access public benefits and advocates for increased funding for public housing, among its varied services. Founded in 1922, when many of the nonprofits that interacted with government were   organizations, The Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies formed to represent the needs of Protestants at a table that then included Catholics and Jews. At the time, the group focused on child welfare. Today, the federation, which includes 175 member agencies throughout the city and in Westchester, has members of the Catholic, Jewish and Muslim faiths, as well as secular organizations. The groups provide services that including child abuse prevention, help for former convicts   society and H. I. V.  support. The federation has also worked with city and state officials on efforts to raise the minimum wage to $15. “We have one foot in the community with our agencies,” Jennifer Jones Austin, the federation’s chief executive, said. “But then we take those lessons learned to affect system change, so our work extends beyond our nonprofits to all New Yorkers. ” Founded in 1933 at the request of Albert Einstein, the International Rescue Committee’s mission is to restore health, safety, education and economic   to people affected by conflict and disaster. It works in 29 cities across the United States and in more than 40 countries, including Syria, where the group provided emergency and humanitarian aid to 1. 4 million people who were displaced there in 2015. Last year, more than 23 million people around the world benefited from the efforts of the committee and its partners. In the United States alone, the group helped resettle 9, 961 refugees and provided services to many more, including victims of human trafficking.   of New York was founded in 1917, and for 100 years has responded during major events: helping to settle immigrants, rebuilding Jewish life after the Holocaust, supporting Israel, rescuing and resettling Soviet Jews and helping New York City recover after both Hurricane Sandy and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. UJA supports a global network of nearly 100 nonprofits and hundreds of grantees that serve New Yorkers of all backgrounds, as well as Jewish communities worldwide. These partner organizations help address a number of concerns, including poverty.