’’ ’Navigating the murky waters of supplements is no easy task, even with about  taking some form of vitamins or minerals in pill form.’ ’  pills, which deliver   fatty acids that can have a   effect,  in 2012. A ” released Tuesday looked into what actually goes into fish oils and whether those fish oils are actually doing what we think they do.’ ’The short answer: It might be better to get your   fatty acids directly from fish than from a pill.’ ”But the data it takes to arrive at this answer can get complicated. For one thing, it’s hard to know what you’re getting from the pills in terms of quality.” ’By the standards of the global   trade association GOED, about 20% of the 47 versions of   pills from New Zealand aren’’t up to industry standards for how intact the lipids, or fats, in the pills are, a spokesman for the organization told ”Frontline. ”’ ”Fish oil is fairly sensitive, which means it can break down pretty easily into a form that’s not helpful. But other studies have arrived at different conclusions  —   a  of the same types of pills found that roughly 83% were not of acceptable quality.” ”Despite these issues, there’s also evidence that the supplements themselves  —   even those that are of a high quality  —   won’t necessarily do the things they say they will.” ’For example, a  said fish oil would help in reducing the risk of heart disease, and a  reported the supplements would improve brain health.’ ”But other studies show otherwise. A 2012 study found that the evidence of   having an impact on the incidence of . The supplement has been explored in trials to help such diseases as cancer and   conditions. It’s widely thought to help heart health, but an  concluded that that’s not the case.” ’Only two out of 18 studies examined by researchers actually showed any benefit to taking the   supplement. ”For cardiovascular disease, one has to say there is no compelling evidence that taking fish oils protects against the first heart attack or a second heart attack,” Dr. Andrew Grey, one of the researchers, told ”Frontline. ”’ ”But looking at much of the same evidence, the   trade association didn’t come to the same conclusion.” ’”I think what you’’re looking at are the abstracts,” Adam Ismail, a GOED spokesman, told ”Frontline.” ”Those papers are looking at large areas of cardiovascular disease. I think it’’s hard to argue that   aren’’t important for how your heart functions. ”’ ’Watch a clip of the ”Frontline”  documentary:’ ’’