’Google isn’’t pleased about some ”extremely sensitive information” that Oracle slipped into a recent court hearing.’ ”As part of an ongoing lawsuit between the two companies, an Oracle lawyer said that Google’s Android operating system has generated $31 billion in revenue and $22 billion in profit, .” ’Those numbers came from a calculation that Oracle made after winning the right to see some of .’ ’”That   financial data is highly sensitive, and public disclosure could have significant negative effects on Google’’s business,” the company said in a filing to redact and seal the court transcript.’ ”It’s unclear how Oracle calculated the revenue and profit numbers from Google’s documents. Some of the revenue comes from paid app installations that occur on Android, while Google’s sprawling and opaque   business contributes another big chunk of the revenue.” ”The Information’s Amir Efrati explains on Twitter:” ’’ ” ’t’t’  Some clarity on Google Android   figures leaked by Oracle. It’s creative. The only P&L that Android team owns is Google Play’t’t” ’ ’t’t’  or it gave Oracle its overall mobile revenue and Oracle did some rough math, based on knowing Google made more from iOS than Android. ’t’t’ ’The narrative in the past has been . In that light, these numbers look pretty good!’ ”From an   perspective, that’s great for Google. Wall Street, which has criticized Google for spending money on efforts that don’t deliver an immediate payoff, will now have a better understanding of how big of a   engine its Android business really is.” ’The problem is that Oracle is using those numbers to try to prove that Google should pay more in damages should Oracle prevail in the lawsuit. Oracle is suing Google with accusations that the search giant illegally copied part of programming language Java, which it owns.’ ”So depending on how Google argues in court, it will either feed Oracle’s damages, which  may now exceed $1 billion, or it will be forced to make the case that Android isn’t as hearty, which won’t thrill investors.”