’’ ’Japan has .’ ”People aren’t having . Consequently, Japan isn’t having nearly enough kids.” ”A  1, 008, 000 babies were born in Japan in 2015, while 1, 302, 000 people died. That’s a net loss of almost 300, 000 humans. ” ’Compare that to Sweden, which is growing and has a high fertility rate for a developed country.  110, 907 babies were born and 88, 976 people died, making for a gain of 21, 931 people. ’ ’’ ’’ ”It’s a crisis. ” ’’ ”That’s the irony of conservative gender roles: if you don’t support women working, you end up not having enough kids to support the economy. ” ’If Japan is going to increase its birthrate  —   and save its population  —   a huge part of the culture needs to change.  ’ ”Prime Minister Shinzo Abe  that addressing the baby crisis is part of his economic policy.  that the country will increase its fertility rate  —   basically the average number of children per mother  —   from 1. 4 (where it’s been for 25 years) to 1. 8 children per women. ” ’According to Richard Jackson, president of the nonprofit research group  that’’s an ”ambitious” goal, if not ”delusional.” Only two countries have made that kind of jump: Sweden and Denmark.’ ”In Japan, all sorts of things are being tried to bring the birth rate up.  where people simply aren’t interested in sex or relationships. And some local governments  more quickly. ” ’’ ’If you look at developed economies around the world, Jackson says, their fertility rates tend to be near 2. 0 (like France or the United States) or down below 1. 5 (like Italy, South Korea, or Japan).’ ’It has a lot to do with work and family balance. ’ ’”The countries that have been most successful at adjusting for a dual role for women, both as mothers and as professionals or at least workers, interestingly end up with more of both,” Jackson says,” They end up with higher fertility rates and more working women. ”’ ’As in: ’ ’’ ”It’s all about the workplace culture. ” ’”To be a young professional advancing your career, you have to be prepared to stay late every night and then be prepared for drinking with your boss,” he says. ”You can’’t have a couple where both members do that and also have small children, unless they’’re going to keep the daycare centers open until 11 o’’clock at night or you’’re very affluent and can hire a fulltime nanny.” ’ ’According to Jackson, countries with high birth rates have two different models: ’ ’If Japan were to adopt either of these models, it might lean towards the European one, according to Jackson. The ”flexible labor” model involves   and individualism, which doesn’’t seem organic in a collectivist culture like Japan  —   and neither does the idea of temporarily stepping off the corporate ladder to have kids.’ ’For that reason, the French or Danish model could be applied in Japan, but it would require both the public assistance of growing families  —   which Jackson refers to as ”pronatal” policy  —   as well as government mandates to companies saying that they must provide paid maternity leave to mothers. Or, in the Swedish case, fathers. ’