’’ ’The Blizzard of 2016 (aka Winter Storm Jonas) will definitely be one for the history books.’ ’The massive storm paralyzed the Northeast for much of the weekend, smashing records as the   snowstorm  the biggest  and one of the top five snowiest .’ ’Thousands of  states of emergency were declared, and at least   —   mostly from traffic accidents and shoveling snow.’ ’Parts of the New Jersey shore suffered  breaking records  in 2012.’ ’Paradoxically, winters have been  since the   and annual snowfall in the US has .’ ’And yet, massive storms like Jonas have only been getting more common.’ ”The factors that helped brew this storm  but despite the  there’s  that global warming is partly to blame.” ’As meteorologist Eric Holthaus  warmer air can hold more water. As air is warmed, the ratio of how much water it holds relative to the amount it can hold  —   known as the   —   drops. In other words, warm air absorbs moisture, which is why hand dryers are (mostly) effective.’ ’This winter, waters off the US East Coast have been   —   about 5 to 6 degrees warmer than average, . This, along with a warmer Gulf Stream, adds more moisture to the air. Combine all that extra moisture with cold air, and you get a recipe for lots of snow. This warming can be linked in part to climate change.’ ’”There is   science that now suggests that climate change will lead to more of these intense,   Nor’easters, for precisely the reason we’re seeing this massive storm  —   unusually warm Atlantic ocean surface temperatures,” Penn State University climate scientist Michael Mann .’ ’Of course, with global warming comes the melting of polar ice caps and sea level rise. And the Northeast has seen some of the biggest rises. As Slate reports, waters in Lewes, Delaware, have risen by  over the past century. And higher seas  during major storms like Hurricane Sandy or Jonas.’ ”Climate change isn’t the only factor that spawned this weekend’s massive blizzard. But if current trends continue, it’s safe to say we can probably expect more of these snowpocalypse storms down the road.”