’After  Iowa voters on Monday night will head to precincts in churches and schools to caucus for their preferred presidential candidate.’ ’’ ’’ ’According to University of Minnesota researcher  on the Republican side there are 27 key counties that have correctly predicted every winner of the past five Iowa Republican caucuses.’ ’The counties are as follows: Adair, Appanoose, Audubon, Benton, Buchanan, Butler, Cass, Cherokee, Clay, Crawford, Emmet, Fayette, Floyd, Franklin, Greene, Grundy, Guthrie, Henry, Jasper, Kossuth, Madison, Mills, Ringgold, Sac, Warren, Wayne, and Wright.’ ’On the Democratic side, 12 counties  —   Buchanan, Buena Vista, Carroll, Clayton, Clinton, Dubuque, Grundy, Jackson, Marshall, Muscatine, Plymouth, and Webster  —   .’ ’Particularly interesting will be the results out of Buchanan and Grundy counties, the only two that have correctly forecast the outcomes on both sides for the past several caucuses.’ ’But even in other counties, there will be clues that could provide hints about the eventual victor.’ ”In recent weeks,  in rural areas and areas near the state’s colleges, while Clinton has focused on the   counties toward the center.  that if Sanders can’t take home Johnson or Story counties, home to two of the state’s major universities, this could signal that his support will be down on other counties that are less demographically favorable to the senator.” ’’ ’Conversely, the Clinton campaign is looking to take home delegates in the denser counties, particularly Polk, Warren, Linn, Scott, and Dubuque.’ ”The former US secretary of state has focused energy particularly in turning out reliable Democratic voters in Polk. There, forecasters have predicted that . And the state’s small proportion of minority voters has slightly more representation. A Sanders win in Polk could signal a strong finish for the senator.” ’Iowa has traditionally been a state in which less   candidates could make gains by personally meeting and connecting with voters, as past winners like former US Sen. Rick Santorum ( ) and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee (R) have shown.’ ’Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) and other candidates attempted to buttress support in rural counties by completing the ”full Grassley,” a tactic that involves stopping in all of Iowa’’s 99 counties at least once during the campaign.’ ”But it’s unclear whether the personal touch will work in an election during which Republican   Donald Trump has managed to stay on top while spending less time and money in Iowa than most other candidates.” ”Whereas Cruz has attempted to galvanize evangelical support in the western half of the state,  suggested that much of Trump’s support will likely come from more secular voters in southern counties, from which hail a larger share of    Iowans, who more frequently back Trump.” ’Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) aiming for a   finish, . He’’s campaigned hard on the outskirts of Iowa’’s smaller cities, earning him the nickname ”Mayor of Ankeny,” a suburb of Des Moines where his Iowa campaign headquarters is located.’