A   of   lead exploded from the barrel of a   pistol at 1, 300 feet per second. The bullet sped toward    Carlos Vasquez, who ran just steps ahead of the gunman. But it missed its mark, just outside the Melrose Houses in the South Bronx, and kept whistling through the air. It sailed for 150 yards along East 154th Street, down the slope between Courtlandt and Elton Avenues, staying airborne as the ground fell away. Maribel Cavero, 45, was crossing the street at the base of that hill, unaware that a shot had been fired during a running fight between young men in the housing project. She had just delivered a carton of sugar substitute to her diabetic grandmother on East 154th Street and was on her way to pick up her    niece from school. The bullet slowed and tumbled as it dropped. Then, with the last of its fading energy, it tore into Ms. Cavero. Alejandro Almonte, 45, a   heard Ms. Cavero yelp and saw her fall. He later said he thought she must have had a seizure. He ran to where she lay, facedown, on the blacktop by a small car’s bumper. She was dying, the bullet having pierced her heart at about 12:50 p. m. on Nov. 2, a sunny Wednesday. The slug passed through her chest and rolled to a stop under a Jeep parked near a   house at 426 East 154th Street. The bullet was strangely pristine, hardly deformed by its deadly work. As investigators began to piece together how the woman had been shot, Sgt. Michael J. LoPuzzo, the commander of the 40th Precinct detective squad, looked uphill, where the bullet had been fired, and downhill, where it had come to rest, and surveyed the maze of telephone poles, streetlights, wires, cars and trees in between. The bullet had improbably traveled nearly two city blocks to strike an unintended victim and log the precinct’s 14th  —   and final  —   homicide of 2016. “It couldn’t have hit a tree?” he said, shaking his head. “A light pole? A sign?” It was grim news for detectives in the 40th Precinct, where The New York Times has been examining every homicide logged in 2016, a succession of   assassinations, gang killings, domestic murders and random slayings. Half the cases remained unsolved, and Sergeant LoPuzzo’s investigators were already struggling to find the person responsible for the fatal shooting of another innocent bystander, Jessica White, cut down on a playground in June. Now, less than a mile away and five months later, the police had another mystery and another blameless bystander lying crumpled on the ground. Detectives were initially unable to explain what had happened. The mayor’s office called the chief of detectives, and the chief of detectives called Sergeant LoPuzzo. The message was simple: Do all you can. The department flooded the streets with rookies who picked through trash and shined flashlights in alleyways and sewer grates searching for any potential evidence. Detectives checked Ms. Cavero’s background for clues. The head of Bronx detectives, Deputy Chief Jason Wilcox, stalked the streets between the projects and the businesses on Third Avenue, the area around him abuzz with the police. It was a striking show of force, and a marked escalation from the police response after Ms. White was killed as she tried to shield her children from gunfire. As the afternoon hours wore on, Sergeant LoPuzzo and his detectives started getting breaks. Things lined up in ways they seldom do in this part of the Bronx, where witnesses rarely agree to testify and investigative staffing is one of the lowest in the city despite a   rate that is the highest. By late the next night, Orlando Oquendo, a    who the police believed had fired the bullet, was in handcuffs, having been identified in a lineup by Mr. Vasquez, the man who said he was the target. Mr. Oquendo, who still looked very much a teenager, had been arrested several times, including twice on gun possession charges, according to court documents and his mother. “That kid was on a road,” Sergeant LoPuzzo said. “It was just a matter of time. ” Less than 48 hours elapsed from death to arrest, and what detectives in this corner of the city say they hope for but rarely see came to pass: The police and the people in the community had cooperated to solve a killing. “It’s supposed to read like a book,” Sergeant LoPuzzo said weeks later, explaining how he wished all cases went that way. “Where you can read all the steps in the investigation, and what they saw and what they found and what the video shows and what the evidence shows. So it’s all one big package. ” It was a luxury, the sergeant said, his squad often did not have. The day she died, Maribel Cavero and her    mother, Maria Reyes, had cooked crabs for an early lunch, using a recipe from their native Ecuador. Together, with Ms. Cavero’s younger sister, Alexandra Cavero, 44, they sat at a small table in the family’s   apartment in the Melrose Houses, only a block from the corner where the shot would be fired. Ms. Cavero regaled them with family gossip and news from their home country. The sisters had joined their mother in the United States in 2008, about 12 years after she followed her own mother from Guayaquil, Ecuador, to the South Bronx in hopes of more earnings and a better life. When lunch was finished, Ms. Cavero’s mother reminded her to drop off the box of sugar substitute to her grandmother, Marcela Troncoso, the    family matriarch, who lived in an apartment on East 154th Street. As she did most days, Ms. Cavero was headed to pick up her sister’s    daughter, Gabriela Encalada, from school, because her sister had to leave for her job as a bus driver. But Ms. Cavero would make time for the delivery. “She said, ‘I’m in a hurry, but I’ll do it,’” Ms. Reyes said in a recent interview. “‘I’ll do it. ’” Ms. Cavero had no husband, no boyfriend and no children, her relatives said. She enjoyed certain solitary pursuits, like romance novels and the online game FarmVille. And aside from family, her regular social activity was Mass at Immaculate Conception Church on East 150th Street. “She lived in her own world,” her sister said. “She was still very naïve. ” With what relatives called a tranquil focus, she poured her energy into caring for her mother and helping to raise her niece, whom she considered like a daughter. She loved tragic poetry, her sister said, and the writings of Pablo Neruda and the novels of Corín Tellado, a prolific romance writer. At night, she would watch Elvis Presley movies, referring to the singer as her eternal love. She watched James Bond movies, too, but told friends she avoided real romantic entanglements because in her view they always brought pain. “In high school, they used to say she seemed like she was in love because when she was into a book, into a piece of literature, she expressed it, and the others would tell her, ‘You’re in love,’ and her answer would be ‘Yes, I’m in love with life,’” her sister said. “‘In some ways you seem like a little girl, and in some ways you’re like an old lady,’ I used to tell her. ” Ms. Cavero worked for a few years as a   nanny, her mother said. But as the children she watched grew, the $   job ended and she wound up working another job her stepfather found for her at a McDonald’s on Sixth Avenue and 28th Street in Manhattan. The shifts began late in the day, which gave her time to pick up Gabriela. But they often ended near midnight. Coming home that late, she usually called her mother to tell her she was leaving work. Her mother said Ms. Cavero was afraid of the neighborhood. “This is a bad place here,” Ms. Reyes said. “Sometimes gunfights are heard outside. ” When the McDonald’s was being remodeled in the fall, Ms. Cavero seized the opportunity to go to Ecuador. She stayed for 45 days with her father, Luis Cavero. She wasn’t thrilled to return to New York, where she had been frustrated in finding meaningful work, and she talked of moving home once her niece was older, her sister said. “Why did this happen?” her sister asked. “I don’t understand. She was a person who had no vices. ” For the investigation into Ms. Cavero’s killing, finding the small, smooth slug under a Jeep near the body was the case’s first big break. Detectives who found it cordoned off the area with crime scene tape. One hunched down, unloaded the magazine of his own   pistol and pulled out a bullet to compare. The slugs were the same size. Another bystander told officers he had seen a man running wildly with something black in his hand through the Melrose playground a block and a half away. Detectives traced a ballistic path westward along East 154th Street and found a plumber who told them he had seen the shooting as he walked with his lunch from the Twin Deli Grocery at East 154th and Courtlandt. The plumber told detectives he saw one young man chase another, then stop and raise his arm. He heard a gunshot and the tinkle of a brass shell hitting the sidewalk as the gunman turned back and sprinted into the Melrose Houses. The shell was there, under some scaffolding, on the northeast corner, and detectives placed a white foam cup over it to preserve it as evidence. After detectives went looking for surveillance video, they found footage from at least five nearby stores and buildings, a bonanza in a neighborhood where security cameras are scarce and often out of order. One video showed a teenager racking a gun, dropping something, then firing. On the street, besides the shell casing, detectives discovered an object they believed had also fallen from the gunman’s hands: a silver cigarette lighter. Television satellite trucks began showing up, a rare but welcome sight for investigators in this part of the city, who hoped publicity might encourage witnesses to come forward. The evening news broadcasts were soon underway, and in a place where even horrific killings often draw only brief coverage, the local stations were going big with the news of an innocent bystander shot dead. For Sergeant LoPuzzo, a steady diet of coffee and cigarettes does nothing to blunt his frustration over witnesses who will not speak. In case after case, as recently as a shooting on New Year’s Day, even seriously injured victims tell a similar story: “Felt pain, saw nothing. ” But the Cavero case was already going differently, and then a call came from the 40th Precinct station house on Alexander Avenue. Detectives told the sergeant, who was still at the scene, that a man had walked into the   squad room claiming to have been in the gunman’s cross hairs. “I said, ‘Do not let him leave,’” Sergeant LoPuzzo recalled. Within minutes, the man, Carlos Vasquez, was putting his account in writing in front of a detective. In his statement, he said he saw the news of Ms. Cavero’s death on television and realized “that a woman was shot and killed by the bullet that was intended for me. ” “I informed my family that I was going to the precinct so I can tell the detectives what happened and tell them I wanted this guy brought to justice,” he said in his statement, which both he and a detective signed. “It’s one of the rare things where he’s got a conscience,” Sergeant LoPuzzo later said. Mr. Vasquez had been arrested more than a dozen times and had been convicted of drug dealing and illegal possession of a knife. He was a   if   drug dealer. He sold in the Melrose Houses near the corner of East 153rd Street and Courtlandt Avenue, where his mother lived, according to court records and the police. In implicating Mr. Oquendo, Mr. Vasquez never explained how the fight had started. In his own words, he said he had left his building on Nov. 2 “in search of marijuana” and was waiting for a dealer near a flagpole at the neighboring Jackson Houses when two men assaulted him. He ran. But before he could make it to the safety of his mother’s house, one of the assailants closed the gap, with a gun in hand. “As I’m running, I turn around to see him point a gun at me and fire it,” Mr. Vasquez said in his statement, though he did not know Mr. Oquendo’s name. “I ducked between cars. ” Even before Mr. Vasquez came in, detectives reviewing the recovered video images from the deli’s cameras thought they had identified a suspect. Officers assigned to a plainclothes   unit recognized the person in the surveillance footage as Mr. Oquendo, the teenager with a lengthy arrest record who was known to officers as “Gumby. ” The case detective, Ivan Monge, also knew the gunman when he saw the video. He had arrested Mr. Oquendo’s older sister on assault charges in October. “I told myself, ‘Wait, this is Gumby, this is Oquendo,’” he said. Detectives did not recover the gun. But with the videos, the witnesses, the bullet, the shell casing and the name of the suspect lining up, Sergeant LoPuzzo’s team made one more breakthrough: Detective David Rodriguez remembered that the suspect’s mother was an old neighbor of his from Spanish Harlem. They had grown up together, their families had attended the same church and they had spoken after one of Mr. Oquendo’s previous arrests. The detective contacted the mother’s relatives on Facebook and eventually got her on the phone. He told her he needed her to bring in her son safely. “Like a mother, she didn’t believe it,” Detective Rodriguez said. “And she wanted the proof. ” Detective Rodriguez went to her home and took her to the squad room, where he showed her a wanted flier with an image of her son taken from the videos. She came in only “because she trusted him,” said Detective John Caruso, another detective working on the case. Finally she broke down. “Yeah,” she said, according to Detective Rodriguez, “that’s my son. ” By the next night, the detectives were packed in the lobby of the Legal Aid Society’s office on East 161st Street in the Bronx. Steven Mechanic, a veteran public defender who had represented Mr. Oquendo against several criminal charges in the past, surrendered him to the police. “There are no winners in this case,” Mr. Mechanic said later, declining to discuss the new charges or Mr. Oquendo’s previous convictions. Mr. Oquendo was led away. His parents cried. “He told me he came over from Cuba on a boat, 20 years ago,” Detective Rodriguez said of the suspect’s father. “I know the mother’s side of the family personally. I’ve known them for years. He comes from a good family, but everyone takes their own path in life. ” Orlando Oquendo’s mother sat in her living room in the Jackson Houses one recent night, with a stack of letters written by her son in jail piled on her lap. She nodded toward the streets outside her   window and spoke of her son’s sorrow for Ms. Cavero’s death. “If he did do it, it was not intentional. It was not toward her,” she said of the shooting. “A person was lost, so it’s going to hurt. ” She felt a kinship for Ms. Cavero’s family. Both were Latino families, she said, one from Puerto Rico and Cuba, the other from Ecuador. Both were churchgoing, and both were living in a   area they wanted to escape. Mr. Oquendo’s mother said that taking the apartment in the Jackson Houses 11 years ago was the worst decision she had ever made. Mr. Oquendo, the fourth of her six children, was troubled and, from a young age, attended a special school for emotionally disturbed children. It was hard to stay neutral in the project’s   gang feuds, and he got into fights constantly. He seemed unable to back down from a threat. He would not “stay shut” when challenged, said his mother, who spoke on the condition that her name not be published. “He had good hands. He could defend himself. ” Twice, her son was accused of crimes involving guns, according to court documents and law enforcement officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss confidential records. In February 2014, a young woman told the police that Mr. Oquendo, who was 15, fired several shots at her, one official said. He was indicted on a gun possession charge in that case, which was transferred to family court and sealed. Then, in August 2015, he was arrested when a police officer saw him drop a .  revolver wrapped in a   on Courtlandt Avenue near East 157th Street, a criminal complaint said. He later pleaded guilty to a reduced charge and was given a conditional discharge, the official said. Mr. Oquendo’s mother said he was supposed to be graduating from high school this month and then going to work for his father’s plumbing business. Her son had been coaching young basketball players at the local Classic Community Center, on the courts where Chris McCullough of the Brooklyn Nets once reigned. He had proposed to his longtime girlfriend, telling her they could someday move to a safer neighborhood with their son, O. J. born on Aug. 16. “If this kid could relive this day, I’m sure he wouldn’t do the same thing that he did,” Sergeant LoPuzzo said. “But once you pull that trigger, you can’t pull that back. ” Still, the pressures were mounting, said Mr. Oquendo’s mother, who referred to him as her “prayer baby” for his constant comfort of her. He watched her battle diabetes and heart disease and saw his maternal grandmother dying of colon cancer. The streets enveloped him, she said. In October, he had a dispute with Mr. Vasquez outside a local barbershop. On the day of the shooting, Mr. Vasquez’s nephew, a friend of the Oquendo family, sent messages to Mr. Oquendo’s sister to find out what had happened. After speaking with Detective Rodriguez, Mr. Oquendo’s mother reached her son and asked him to surrender. “I told him, ‘The best thing to do is to turn yourself in, and let’s see what happens,’” she said. “I don’t want my son out on the run. ” Now, he is in a Rikers Island jail cell, facing a   indictment on murder and other charges. He turned 18 there and spent Thanksgiving and Christmas alone. But his letters and cards keep coming, almost daily, filled with apologies for letting his mother down and promising to come home. In a letter on Dec. 30, he told her not to worry, writing, “God has a plan,” and “Let’s hope God gives us a short, easy punishment. ” Ms. Cavero’s relatives, who are tracking the suspect’s court appearances, are afraid of just that: a light sentence. Detectives said that Mr. Oquendo’s intended victim, Mr. Vasquez, picked him out of a police lineup, but that the plumber who witnessed the shooting had been too afraid to try the same. DNA tests on the silver lighter recovered near the shell casing were inconclusive. In her living room, two blocks from the Oquendo family, Ms. Cavero’s mother, Ms. Reyes, also sat on a couch with a pile of envelopes, these containing court papers and other official documents. She thought back to the moment the police informed her of her daughter’s killing. Detective Monge, the case detective, had knocked on her door to deliver the news in Spanish, and she was grateful for his compassion. But even after a wake, in which her daughter was dressed all in white, and a funeral, in Ecuador, she said the randomness of the death  —   in which a person with no enemies or vices was taken violently  —   remained the abiding mystery. It is a question the police cannot answer. “That is what I ask myself,” Ms. Reyes said, tears falling down her cheeks. “Why did this happen this way?”