’’ ’On Wednesday, the Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center announced that it had  or roughly $17, 000, to restore its systems in the ”quickest and most efficient” way from a virus.’ ”While details on the specific virus that infected the hospital remain elusive, this appears to be a typical case of . These viruses frequently use encryption to scramble a victim’s files, forcing them to restore from backups, if they have them, or pay up for decryption keys  —   the same story reflected in .” ’An  that was signed by the hospital’’s president and CEO, Allen Stefanek, noted that the the center’’s   system had been restored on Monday and that ”all systems currently in use were cleared of malware.” But it was not immediately clear if any systems remained disabled as a result of the infection.’ ’The restoration of the records system came 10 days after the infection was detected on February 5. The announcement noted that there was no evidence indicating a leak of any sensitive data.’ ’A hospital representative told Business Insider that she could not provide additional comment.’ ”Ransomware generally targets a user’s documents, like text files, images, or audio, rather than   files. That’s because the hackers’   is to entice victims to pay for their data, not to indiscriminately damage their computers.” ”The scheme seems to be working, too: Hackers generated over $325 million from the attacks in a   period,  While that estimate strains credulity, antivirus firm Bitdefender found that over 50% of American ransomware victims paid the demanded ransom. Even public institutions  —   particularly   —   aren’t immune.” ’The encryption of documents can render a computer useless if all its relevant files are inaccessible or if systems have to be taken offline in order to manage the infection’ ’’ ’The problem started innocently enough, according to the district superintendent, Brian Harvey: ”Midday on Sunday, I started doing some work and couldn’’t connect to the internet.” As problems continued, the district’’s tech staff investigated the problem and found that a virus had been encrypting files, effectively shuttering the network as the infection spread.’ ’”At that point, our technology coordinator just shut everything off,” Harvey told Business Insider.’ ”While the district had its files backed up, wiping and restoring servers and bringing the schools’ software back online was a   task, one that hadn’t been completed when Harvey spoke to Business Insider nearly a week after the initial infection.” ’Some of the consequences of running a school without its computer systems are expected and even mundane, like the fact that students had to write down by hand their ID numbers to pay for their lunches, . But the shutdown also affected instruction: Without access to ”learning management software,” teachers can’’t easily send grades, assignments, or study materials to students online the way they normally would.’ ”If the perpetrator behind the attack had their way, district officials would be ponying up 21 bitcoins  —   nearly $9, 000  —   to restore their files. The availability of backups meant that the district didn’t need to give in to demands. Harvey conceded, however, that if they hadn’t had the option to restore, then there would’ve been little choice but to pay so as not to lose grades and student information.” ’Harvey may be right. For the time being, there is generally  to restore encrypted data from ransomware other than pay.’ ’’ ’Local law enforcement is investigating the incident, with the aid of the FBI, but Harvey is not holding his breath waiting for a mysterious hacker to get caught: ”This is just the world that we live in. ”’ ’”It’’s terribly frustrating,” Harvey said. But ”we’’ve got kids coming to us tomorrow, and they’’ve still got to learn. ”’ ’In a hospital setting, the stakes may be greater. Stefanek initially told a local NBC affiliate  butistorical medical records were also rendered inaccessible.’ ’The hospital’’s president called the attack ”random,” but hospitals have been targeted in cyberattacks in the past. Just this week, an NBC report cited a . The Washington Post, analyzing data from the US Department of Health, reported in March that  across over 1, 100 breaches.’ ’Healthcare records are valuable to identity thieves because the information can potentially remain accurate forever, unlike email addresses or   numbers, which can be changed.’ ’This post has been updated to remove an inaccurate ransom figure  —   over $3 million  —   that had been cited in initial reports. The hospital announced on Wednesday that it had paid a ransom of roughly $17, 000.’ ’On Wednesday, the Hollywood Presbyterian. ..’