To some they are emblems of delight, reminders in steel of unbreakable connections. To others they are barnacles encrusting a beloved landmark. They are the   love locks, padlocks placed on the Brooklyn Bridge by lovers to signify their bond. This fall, after cutting away tens of thousands of the locks, whose sheer weight engineers say could damage the bridge, the New York City Transportation Department began a deterrence campaign to keep the besotted from further festooning: A $100 fine is to be assessed for the illicit act of adoration. Unlike other signs in the city, like those that menacingly forbid parking and threaten the arrival of tow trucks, the warnings are gentle and humorous. One features a picture of a bagel with what appears to be smoked salmon and a schmear. “NO LOCKS, YES LOX,” it says. On Monday, a post beneath one of these signs had nearly 20 locks attached to it. The tradition dates back to about 2009, according to the Transportation Department, which removed over 11, 000 locks in 2015. The laborious removals, it said, cost over $100, 000 a year. Lovers have likely been inspired by the locks on Rome’s oldest bridge, the Ponte Milvio, and on the Pont des Arts in Paris. In both cities, the authorities have long battled the heavy locks that daily encrust their bridges the symbol persists despite strong warnings against the practice. New York’s version seems grittier: In recent years people have tied hair bands, shoelaces and even headphones to the bridge, the department said. But it is risky for the bridge, an architectural marvel completed in 1883, and the world’s first   suspension bridge. In September, a wire holding up a light snapped under the weight of the locks. “This is a global phenomenon,” Polly Trottenberg, the city’s transportation commissioner, said. “There are so many ways to express your love  —   hold hands, take a beautiful picture, have a beautiful dinner. ” Leaving locks and other flotsam on a bridge should not be one of them, she said. But Eric L. Adams, the Brooklyn borough president, thinks simply telling tourists and others who visit the bridge not to leave the locks behind will not work. Instead, he has proposed putting up a wall, at the base of the bridge perhaps, where people can position their locks. “We have to roll with it,” he said. “There is a lot of hate going on right now. ” (Ms. Trottenberg said the idea was being considered, but that it would be a lot of work to periodically cut those locks, too.) As part of the deterrence initiative, the city has also asked publishers of several guidebooks, including Lonely Planet and Fodor’s, to let readers know the practice is forbidden. Jordan DuMars, 24, a dancer who lives in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, snapped her lock on the bridge with her boyfriend last April, after seeing it suggested online as a cheap   adventure. “They have that fence in Paris,” she said, “and it just seemed like a cool way to celebrate us being together. ” When she returned a few months later with    visitors to show off the lock, it was gone. “I looked all over, and I was kind of bummed,” Ms. DuMars said. “I get it because of engineering and science, but it does kind of bum me out that they cut off our lock. ” Ms. DuMars said that if she were to get married, she would probably risk the fine and put another padlock on. But she would be O. K. if she did not get the chance. “It doesn’t mean that my love for my boyfriend will go away,” she said. “We are still locked down to each other. ” Henry Perahia, who served 14 years as the city’s chief bridge engineer before he retired in 2014, said there were several reasons not to put a lock on the bridge. For one, the concentration of locks sometimes makes it difficult for maintenance workers to gain access to parts of the bridge. The process of removing locks, which is done with bolt cutters, is risky for the cars below a lock can slip from a worker’s hands. Above all, it is the weight. “An older bridge isn’t built with this much extra capacity, to hold that weight,” Mr. Perahia said. “Sometimes sentiment has to be weighed against a potential danger. ” He added: “As a sentiment I send my wife flowers. They’re lighter. ”