’’ ’Rep. Michael McCaul, the Texas Republican, and Sen. Mark Warner, the Virginia Democrat, will soon formally propose a   commission with aims to bring stakeholders together to discuss and propose solutions to ”. ”’ ’”The technology is way in front of the policymakers and the law,” McCaul said Wednesday at an .’ ’Warner remarked on his fear that the relationship between the intelligence community and the tech sector had become adversarial as the two sides ”talk past each other” when they ought to be cooperating.’ ’At the heart of the committee is the delicate balance between the needs (and wants) of investigators seeking encrypted information and the rights and privacy of the American public.’ ’”There are tensions,” Warner said, ”but we want to maintain American innovation, we want to maintain America’’s privacy rights, and we definitely want to make sure Americans are safe from acts of terror and criminal acts. ”’ ’The pairing of McCaul, the chair of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a former federal prosecutor, and Warner, a former tech and telecommunications investor, is emblematic of the cooperation that the two hope to bring forth with a committee that would include representatives from Silicon Valley, the FBI, privacy advocates, encryption experts, and   agencies.’ ’’ ’A similar discussion arose surrounding the assertion that  in the planning of the November Paris attacks, though the extent to which encryption was actually used remains unclear.’ ’McCaul had  that the commission ”will not be like other blue ribbon panels: established and forgotten” and that it will be required to build ”a range of actionable recommendations that protect privacy and public safety. ”’ ’”I’’m not a big commission guy either,” the congressman said at Wednesday’’s event. ”I was skeptical myself. ”’ ’But McCaul suggested a sense of duty to act: ”If Congress does nothing, as some would advocate [. ..] and we get hit in the United States with a   attack  —   I don’’t want that on my hands. ”’ ’’ ”Despite McCaul’s experience as a prosecutor and Warner’s time in the tech industry, the two seemed to switch positions as they discussed their plan with the press.” ’McCaul noted that there would be no ” ” legislative response to the issue of encryption that could solve the problem, while Warner seemed to express sympathy for the argument that the FBI’’s claim against Apple was a necessary ”  circumstance” rather than a precedent for further policy.’ ’The lawmakers did not want to speculate as to what proposals the commission might make and felt that current litigation  —   which they suggested may have been avoided if a commission had existed earlier  —   should proceed through the judicial system without congressional interference.’ ’Warner also emphasized that the commission was not about encryption alone but about digital security in general, both in the present and as it may evolve in the future.’ ’McCaul and Warner hope to introduce their legislation creating the committee next week. Warner noted that he expected the bill to receive ”broad bipartisan support” and for it to be   into effect.’ ’”I think this could be a case where we prove the pundits wrong and actually get something done. ”’ ’Rep. Michael McCaul, the Texas Republican, and. ..’