’’ ’Men, rejoice. Your dreams might be coming true, all thanks to your desire to never leave your house. ’ ’A new study from  confirms that men are doing a lot of shopping online.’ ’So men are thereby helping drive malls into the ground, which are already  on multiple counts.’ ’ ”When it comes to   men drive nearly as much overall spending online in the US as women. The conventional wisdom is that women drive shopping trends, since they control up to 80% to 85% of household spending,” BI Intelligence reports.’ ’And it turns out, more men than women would prefer to never have to leave their houses to shop  —   especially . ’ ’The report noted that 40% of men ages    ”would ideally buy everything online.” Women, on the other hand, seem to still care for traditional   shopping experiences at times with only only 33% of women agreeing they feel the same.’ ’’ ’And the trend continues for teens. ’ ’’ ’things’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’All of this comes on top of how malls are already clinging to life support;  reported last year, that approximately 300 malls would shutter over the course of ten years.’ ”One reason for this decline is that mall anchor stores, like Nordstrom and Macy’s, have been struggling. Nordstrom, with its  and its plan to  and Macy’s, with its newly launched  have been tarnishing their reputations as   retailers. And photos of abandoned Sears tell a very clear story: consumers don’t want to shop there.” ”Meanwhile, Nordstrom recently reported that its online   store Nordstrom Rack’s Haute Look, saw a 47% spike in sales in fiscal 2015, which signals that consumers don’t want to pay full price, and that they want to shop online, not at malls. ” ” Nordstrom’s CFO Michael Koppel recently expressed that  as the company attempts to gain more of the online retail market space.” ’”This business model has a high variable cost structure driven by fulfillment and marketing costs in addition to ongoing technology investments. With our increased investments to gain market share along with the changing business model, expenses in recent years have grown faster than sales,” .’ ’Men, rejoice. Your dreams might be coming true. ..’