’Both Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton called on Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder to resign in light of the water crisis in the city of Flint, and the Republican governor   his response during the Democratic debate on Sunday.’ ’Sanders and Clinton used their opening statements at the CNN debate in Flint to unload on the government for failing to intervene sooner when they discovered that residents of Flint were drinking   water.’ ’In his opening statement, Sanders called on Snyder to resign, which he has done previously. He also harshly criticized the local government for its failures.’ ’”What is going on is a disgrace beyond belief,” the Vermont senator lamented in his next debate statement.’ ’”What is absolutely incredible to me is that water rates have soared in Flint,” Sanders added. ”You are paying three times more for poison water than I’’m paying in Burlington, Vermont, for clean water. ”’ ”Clinton affirmed Sanders’ statement, and called on Snyder to resign for the first time.” ’”Well I’’ll start by saying, ’’Amen to that,’’” Clinton said. ”I agree  —   the governor should resign or be recalled. And we should support the efforts of citizens attempting to achieve that,” she added.’ ’Snyder responded on Twitter.’ ’At the start of the debate, Snyder tweeted a graphic defending his point of view:’ ”There are many questions about the  crisis. Get the facts & learn how we’re working to move  ” ’He then blamed the crisis on bureaucracy:’ ’This was never about money. This was a failure of government at all levels that could be described as a massive error of bureaucracy.’ ”I’ve proposed more than $230 million in additional aid for Flint, and have already delivered $70 million ” ”ICYMI: We’ve partnered with Michigan Works! to hire 81 Flint residents for water resource sites   >  ” ”ICYMI: We’ve partnered with Michigan Works! to hire 81 Flint residents for water resource sites   >  ” ”I’m taking responsibility as our value system says we should. My track record is getting things done, and I want to get this done. ” ”Details on the $30 million in water bill relief for  residents at . No one should pay for water they can’t use.” ’Both Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton called. ..’