’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’about whatever was on her mind  —   ways many people use Snapchat right now.’ ”It fit the platform, but didn’t fit Arsenic’s mission of a crowdsourced magazine where everyone had the power. ” ’The next day, there was a photo shoot and Arsenic models filmed a little of the    view, showing what it was like to be photographed from their point of view.’ ’”People see the resultant pictures, but the idea that there is a place and you can be there seeing what these beautiful women are creating, you don’t get that kind of access,” Hawkins said. ’ ”The views doubled, but that didn’t mean it was an instant success. ” ’Unlike Instagram, when people could upload photos whenever, Snapchat was live  —   and the photos would disappear.’ ’That meant Snapchat needed fresh content every single day, which was tough as Arsenic was still mainly a hobby for its founders.’ ’“24 hours later, no matter how much work you put into it, it’s gone,” Hawkins said. ”We call it feeding the beast. ”’ ’’ ’hey kept it open to anyone. They didn’’t want an ”Arsenic Girl” to be a tightly defined body type or look like a Victoria’’s Secret model or Playboy bunny.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’”You tuned in because you didn’’t know what you would miss,” Micallef said.’ ”With so many takeovers and different people on the account, making it a comfortable accepting space has remained a priority. Occasionally they’ve had to block bad actors for sending inappropriate pictures, but the community is generally more supportive or curious than disparaging, Hawkins argues. ” ”More importantly, every idea they’ve tried has come from the Arsenic community. The mantra right off the bat was that no one tells anyone how they should look  —   it’s about what they want to do and what makes them comfortable, even if it’s considered sexy to others.” ’”We’re edgy and we get that. We believe that we have the opportunity where the edge can serve us well,” Hawkins said. ”It’s cut through the noise. It’s been consistent with our belief. It’s enabled us to be uncompromising. We have no apologies. ”’ ’In the early days of Snapchat, models. ..’