’’ ”In the state of Virginia, a    child can legally marry an adult twice her age, and all that’s needed is a clerk’s consent, provided she is pregnant and has parental consent.” ’That is expected to change this week, however, after Gov. Terry McAuliffe signs reform legislation. If he signs the bill passed Tuesday, the Virginia law may be the first domino in a chain of legislatures around the nation.’ ’Similar bills are in the works in New York (A. 8563) Maryland (H. B. 911) and New Jersey (A. 3091) where, as in many other states, marriage age limits set at 16 to 18 years old are easily set aside through exceptions based on parental   judicial consent, or pregnancy.’ ’”Child pregnancy should trigger alarm bells, not wedding bells,” says Marlene Hartz, a spokeswoman for the legal advocacy group . The   nonprofit, founded to help women who are survivors of a wide range of violence, including forced marriage, recently analyzed marriage data from select states and found ”disturbing results.” The group is working  and the .’ ’”A child who’’s 13 and pregnant  —   it’’s rarely the case that the    is marrying a  ” State Sen. Jill Vogel, who sponsored  in Virginia, told local . ”It’’s more often the case that it is a child marrying somebody decades older than they are. ”’ ’Proponents of this legislation want to see it in all 50 states, because they say victims of forced and child marriage can face severe and lifelong consequences  —   including physical, psychological, sexual, and economic abuse,   problems, and a loss of freedom to choose and make their own futures.’ ’”The common assumption we are seeing is the belief that child marriages don’’t happen that often  —   and when they do, it’’s believed they are     peers, which is not what we are seeing happen here,” says Jeanne Smoot, senior policy counsel for Tahirih.’ ’”The data shows it’’s girls under the age 18, including some who are well under age 15, being married to adults, and   of the time that adult is over 21. ”’ ’The Tahirih study found that nearly 4, 500 children were married in Virginia from 2004 to 2013, and more than 200 of them married at age 15 or younger. About 90% of the underage spouses in Virginia are girls. Among the very youngest (15 or younger) there are 13 times as many underage brides as grooms.’ ’In Maryland, Tahirih found that, since 2000, more than 3, 000 children were married. About 85% of the underage spouses were girls. Particularly alarming was a 2012 case in which a     married a man in his late 30s.’ ’”In 2006 the State of Georgia did away with the pregnancy exception to their underage marriage law, to respond to cases in which those being investigated on charges of statutory rape had tried to avoid punishment by simply marrying the child they were accused raping,” Smoot says.’ ’In New York state,   and    may marry with ”parental consent” and   and    may wed with judicial approval. The data show that 3, 853 children were married from 2000 to 2010.’ ’State data from 2011, excluding New York City, showed that a    married a    a    was wed to a    another    was wed to a    and a third    married someone age ”35 to 39. ”’ ’All of those marriages were approved by New York judges.’ ’Sonia Ossorio, president of NOW New York, says that when she met with Gov. Andrew Cuomo about the issue: ”He was strongly supportive of the bill. He said it’’s time for something to be done to end this. ”’ ’Overall, there has been little public opposition to    legislation. ”There has been no organized pushback against our efforts,” says Fraidy Reiss, founder of Unchained at Last. ”I don’’t think anybody wants forced marriage to continue. ”’ ’From 1995 to 2012, 3, 499 New Jersey children were married, Reiss says. Most were 16 or 17 and married with parental consent, but 178 were ages 10 to 15, meaning a judge approved their marriages. Of those children, 91% married adults, often with age differences that could have triggered   charges.’ ’”The worst case in New Jersey was that of a judge in 2006 approving the marriage of a    boy to an    woman,” Reiss says. ”A judge in 1996 allowed a    girl to marry a    man. ”’ ’In Texas from 2009 to 2013, some 718 children ages 15 to 17 were married. Texas, with its    legislative cycle, will see this legislation next year.’ ’”That is just the few states where we have completed the data examination,” Reiss says. ”We intend to examine every state in the nation. We are also looking for more partners to help us protect children. ”’ ’Globally, 88% of countries set 18 as the minimum marriage age, but more than half allow minor girls to marry with parental consent, according to the .’ ’In the state of Virginia, a    child. ..’