’’ ”If you want just one thing from an interview, it’s that the interviewer will ask you back.” ”If you want a second thing, it’s to know whether or not you want to work there  —    about this office?” ’Most people undermine both goals by trying to show off. Telling an interviewer about your features feels like it should work, but since everyone does it, you all end up looking like .’ ’That strategy asks an interviewer to look at you all like cans of corn on the grocery shelf or used cars in a lot and to pick the cheapest one.’ ”If you’re selling yourself and your labor, do you want to sound like a used car salesperson?” ”Anyone who sells   goods and services knows to create a human, emotional connection. Learn the customers’ interests and needs.” ’If you want your interviewer to see you as a desirable choice, not the cheapest one, create a human, emotional connection.’ ’How?’ ’Create a .’ ”I’ve coached enough people in  that it’s  . Case in point: my onboarding interview at Inc.” ’After the interview, I noticed I had automatically created a   dialogue instead of just answering questions.’ ’Many interviewers ask you about your interest in the workplace  —   why you would like working there. You can ask them the same question.’ ’You can rephrase the question to suit the context, but the gist is as follows.’ ”The person across from you is a human being with cares, desires, drives, etc. If the two of you met elsewhere, you’d talk to him or her like a person, not an interviewer.” ’You can here, too.’ ”You’ll lead the interviewer to see you more as a   person. He’ll talk about what he likes, which will lead him to want to talk more, which will lead him to want you back.” ’If the interviewer has a hard time telling you what he or she likes about the company, you learn you might not want the job  —   important information.’ ”If an interviewer is spending time and resources on you, she must think there’s something about you that meets the company’s needs. Her answer tells you two things:” ’1. Her interests, which helps you negotiate.’ ’2. What she likes about you, which tells you what about yourself to accentuate. Then, instead of looking like a commodity, you can become a custom solution.’ ’I described what I did, referencing a recent client also in an interviewing process:’ ’’ ’Onboarding and negotiation interviews are different from a first interview, but the principles of creating human connections through leading the dialogue work in all these cases.’ ’If you want just one thing from an interview. ..’