’’ ”A battle has been brewing between Marriott International and a Chinese insurance giant, and it’s likely not over yet.” ’First, a recap:’ ’Now the question is: Will Anbang come back with another  ?’ ’The answer is: Most likely.’ ”Sachin Shah, a merger arbitrage strategist at Albert Fried & Co. points out that Marriott’s stock again dropped in value on Monday. By the close, its offer for Starwood had dropped in value to about $78. 85 per share  —   not much higher than Anbang’s $78 offer.” ’Of note, the latest offer also boosted the termination fee from $400 million to $450 million.’ ’So the question, really, is whether Anbang is likely to drop everything over a share price difference of a little under a dollar, plus an additional $50 million in termination fees.’ ’”That to me seems unlikely,” Shah said.’ ”Anbang is a company that knows what it’s getting into, and the additional $50 million in termination fees is not the sort of thing that typically fazes it.” ’Earlier this month when it bought Strategic Hotels & Resorts from Blackstone Group, for example, Anbang paid $450 million more than Blackstone had paid just last year, with the understanding that it was a good   move.’ ’These deal have broader significance. Chinese companies have been  but when they find themselves in competition with Western buyers, they often have an advantage.’ ”With the backing of the Chinese government, they’re usually able to take a   view on value, and are less likely to have vocal shareholders banging on their door if they overpay. Brand names and goods can be sold across a giant domestic market after an acquisition, and Chinese bidders rarely compete with another.” ’”I’’ve always been impressed by generally Asian buyers and specifically Chinese buyers, how   they are in their thinking,” said JPMorgan’’s global cohead of mergers and acquisitions, Hernan Cristerna, .’ ’”They don’’t think in terms of the next four or eight quarters, they think in terms of the next four or eight years. So it’’s very   thinking, and there’’s a real strategic, industrial intent behind their moves and acquisitions. ”’ ’That is in sharp contrast to Marriott.’ ’It pledged in its latest offer that the transaction would be ”roughly neutral to adjusted earnings per share in 2017 and 2018.” It’’s unlikely Marriott would be able to make another offer and maintain that promise, while its stock continues to drop.’ ’’ ”Of course, it is possible that Anbang will back away. US targets will often put the certainty of a deal going ahead above financial terms, and deals with Chinese buyers are considered more complex. There’s always the chance that .” ”But right now Marriott’s back is against the wall and the Chinese insurer seems to be in a much more comfortable place.” ’A battle has been brewing between Marriott. ..’