In times of great stress, or of flickering,   dread, I find that canceling all my plans and staying in to make mashed potatoes generally helps. This year, there were quite a few opportunities to do so.   anxiety gnawed at me for months, lighting up old networks of pain in my shoulders and back. Mold bloomed around the mysterious wet patch that appeared in my bedroom ceiling. I started a thrilling, but terrifying, new job. And as the holidays neared, I worried about my grandmother, almost 80, living alone. Still, I let about half her calls go to voice mail each week, and hated myself for it. I turned to aligot, the   mashed potatoes with roots in central France. Aligot doesn’t fix anything, but it does put a little cushion between you and the abyss, whatever form the abyss might take. To make it, you’ll need a ricer. You could, technically, blitz everything together in the food processor, but you risk potatoes with the gooey, elastic texture of an   glue, setting up between planks. If you’re in a delicate emotional state, as I usually am when I start these potatoes, it’s better not to risk it. Besides, pressing down on the ricer is an essential part of the process. Squashing hot, tender potatoes through tiny holes is a pure and simple joy, one of the rare cooking tasks that’s just as fun as those   sets once had you believe. The potato rushes out in tiny, twirling, noodles. You don’t need to worry about lumps. In France, aligot is traditionally made with tomme fraîche or unripened Cantal, but those cheeses can be hard to find. At North End Grill, a restaurant in Manhattan’s Battery Park City, the chef Eric Korsh makes aligot with a little bit of roasted garlic and a lot of Comté. Any cheese that melts well will do, but for aligot you also want to seek out a cheese with a capacity for stringiness. I’ve had great aligot with Comté, Gruyère and Emmental, and fresh mozzarella can also work in a pinch. Ham   a chef at the Brooklyn diner Hail Mary, starts with Robuchon potatoes. Among cooks, the phrase “Robuchon potatoes” is shorthand for what many still consider the Platonic ideal of mashed potatoes: a flawless purée, mounted with an obscene amount of butter and named for the celebrity French chef Joël Robuchon. In a video dedicated to his famous mashed potatoes, Robuchon leans over a cook and says in French, quite sternly: “More butter! More butter! More butter! More butter! More, more, more!” Robuchon uses ratte potatoes  —   an expensive variety from France. He boils them whole, then peels them while hot. After pushing the potatoes through a food mill, he adds loads of cold butter over the heat and finally some milk or cream, whisking the whole thing until it’s an airy,   cloud. Waylly starts around there, then adds a mix of Gruyère and a   cow’s milk cheese from Vermont, even throwing in part of the bloomy rind. The key, he told me, is to whip the potatoes with confidence, vigor and speed once you add the cheese, to build up the stringiness as it melts. “When you pull it, you want it to seem like you’re pulling at fondue,” Waylly said. “You want to see a good amount of strands falling, and they should have some strength. They should fight with you. ” Stringiness is the whole point of aligot, that long, delightful stretch, the way it takes on all the qualities of melted cheese but remains mashed potato. And though it’s tough to get it like the cooks in Auvergne, some of whom can pull spoonfuls of hot aligot that stretch several feet, you can still get a good, cheesy texture as a beginner, working with a small amount of potato over low heat. At home, in the 20 minutes or so it takes for the potatoes to cook through, I like to get the rest of the meal going. I brown sausages and wilt a big bunch of greens in the same pan. I have a glass of whatever wine is open in the fridge. By now, things are looking up. Cheesy mashed potatoes are on the horizon, like sunshine after a long, dark night. And by the time those potatoes are ready, so am I. Recipe: Aligot (Mashed Potatoes With Cheese)