’’ ’Google wants to help small businesses make their websites work better on mobile.’ ”The company is rolling out a new diagnostic tool to help them figure out how to make their sites faster and easier to use on smartphones, Yong Su Kim, Google’s managing director of    business sales for the Americas, tells Business Insider.” ’The tool, Test My Site with Google, launches in May and will look pretty similar to . But Kim says that the team built this one specifically for   site owners who might not be very tech savvy.’ ”Small businesses will just enter their website URL to get a short diagnostic check. Google will then tell them specific reasons why their site isn’t   and custom tips on how to improve.” ”For example, if a business’ website is slow, then Google will share tips for how to improve speed, as well as data that shows why fixing the problem is important. Kim cites a study that says that an increase of one second in load time leads to an 11% decrease in page views, a 7% decrease in conversions, and a 16% decrease in satisfaction.” ”This news comes almost exactly one year after Google released a series of updates that started ranking   websites higher in search results.  because of the toll it would take on businesses  —   particularly small businesses  —   that didn’t make their sites easier to use on smartphones  —   through techniques like using large text, resizing pages, having   links, etc.” ’Google reasoned that because more than half of its searches come from mobile, it wanted to make sure that consumers had the best experience possible when they clicked on a mobile link.’ ’But the change caused traffic to    websites to  according to an Adobe study in July 2015. In September, only 24. 4% of small businesses had a   site, ’ ”Sites that lost their organic traffic often made up for it by buying more   ads, according to Adobe’s study.” ”That might sound like it would be good for Google, but there’s one hitch: If businesses are buying mobile ads but their mobile sites still stink, then people likely won’t stay on them or buy anything, so the business ultimately might decide that buying more mobile ads doesn’t make sense.” ’”We want to make sure that Google is doing our part to help advertisers make the most of it,” Kim says.’ ’He said that when it helped about a dozen of its   advertisers improve their mobile experiences, it caused twice as many ”conversions”  —   meaning a purchase,   registration, or other action that would count as a success for that business.’ ’Overall, Google says that it found an influx of 13% more   sites in total search results since its updates last spring  —   though it has no data on   sites specifically.’ ”News of Google’s new tool for small businesses comes right before Facebook’s developers conference next week, when the social network is expected to announce ” ”Over the last year, Facebook’s refrain has been that small businesses don’t necessarily need their own websites because . Instead of building a website or dedicated mobile app, companies can put all their information on Facebook for free, it says.” ”As you’d expect, Kim doesn’t believe that just having a Facebook Page is enough.” ’”We feel that it’’s important for small businesses to have a presence that reflects the true nature of the business, with full flexibility and customization, and however they want to program it themselves for the end user,” he says when asked about Facebook’’s stance.’ ’He continued:’ ’Kim admits that often ”small businesses aren’’t   to make sure that consumers have a good experience,” so Google will also recommend   partners like Wix and Weebly that can help with   creation if they don’’t have their own tools.’ ’The company says that there will be ”some unique offers,” but that those partners and others won’’t be paying to be recommended.’ ’Google wants to help small businesses make. ..’