’’ ”Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton spent much of Thursday’s Democratic debate yelling over each other in front of a boisterous Brooklyn crowd during what was their most contentious debate yet.” ’So much so that, at one point, CNN moderator Wolf Blitzer had to tell them to play nice.’ ’”If you’’re both screaming at each other, the viewers won’’t be able to hear either of you, so please don’’t talk over each other,” he asked the candidates.’ ”The Vermont senator and the former secretary of state did not pull any punches in what was the candidates’ last major chance to leave an impression on Democratic voters ahead of Tuesday’s New York primary.” ’Clinton is leading in the state, which she represented for eight years in the Senate, by nearly 14 points,  average of several recent polls.’ ’The very opening of the debate produced fireworks, after  about a recent suggestion the Democratic candidate made about Clinton possibly not being ”qualified” for the presidency.’ ’Sanders said that ”of course” Clinton has the experience to be president. But he added that he does ”question her judgment” because she voted for the Iraq war and supported trade agreements.’ ’”And I question her judgment about running super PACs that are collecting tens of millions of dollars from special interests, including Wall Street,” Sanders said.’ ”Clinton fired back, bringing up Sanders’ interview with the New York Daily News, for .” ’”We have disagreements on policy, but if you go ahead and read Sen. Sanders’’ long interview with the New York Daily News, where he had problems answering questions about his core issues, breaking up the banks,” she said.’ ’She continued:’ ”Sanders circled back to his attack over Clinton’s vote for the Iraq war and the super PACs supporting her campaign.” ’Clinton responded, saying that attacking her for having super PACs is an attack on President Barack Obama as well.’ ’Many in the crowd appeared to groan at the statement. It was the first example of a lively audience that expressed its collective opinion throughout the debate.’ ’”You may not like the answer, but I’’ll tell you why,” she said. ”Obama had a super PAC, Obama took tens of millions from contributors. And he wasn’’t influenced. ”’ ’”This is a phony attack that is designed to raise questions when there is no evidence,” she added.’ ’Clinton  in another exchange in which she was asked about her refusal to release the transcripts of speeches she gave to Wall Street firms.’ ’Sanders repeatedly slammed her for refusing to release the transcripts.’ ’”If there’’s nothing in those speeches that will change voters’’ minds, why not just release the transcripts and put these speeches to bed?” CNN moderator Dana Bash said as audience members cheered.’ ’. Coming off the exchange over minimum wage, Clinton was more than prepared to strike Sanders on an issue she perceives him as being out of step with the Democratic base.’ ’The exchange began as Blitzer asked Clinton about a recent comment she made that claimed Vermont supposedly has the highest   number of guns that end up being used in crimes in New York.’ ’Blitzer painted that statement as untrue, saying that a very small percentage of guns used to commit crimes in New York come from the state. He asked Clinton if she believed her statement or if it was simply an attempt to slam Vermont and Sanders.’ ’”Of course not,” she said, adding that gun control was simply an issue where she has ”a lot of difference” with Sanders.’ ’Sanders chuckled while Clinton gave the answer.’ ’”This isn’’t a laughing matter,” Clinton shot back. ”Ninety people on average are killed or commit suicide or die from accidents with guns [every day]  —   33, 000 people a year. I take it really seriously. ”’ ’Late in the debate, Sanders had a chance to fire back when he was asked by NY1 moderator Errol Louis about a highly controversial statement Clinton made in a 1996 speech.’ ”He didn’t .” ’Louis asked Sanders why he recently called out former President Bill Clinton  —   Hillary’’s husband  —   for defending his wife’’s use of the term ”super predators” to describe gang members.’ ”Bill defended Hillary’s past language and the controversial 1994 crime bill  —   the in a  last week in Philadelphia.” ’Sanders, in some of his sharpest language to date, accused Hillary Clinton of using a ”racist term. ”’ ’”It was a racist term,” he said, ”and everyone knew it was a racist term. ”’ ’Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton spent much. ..’