”Log on to Instagram and chances are at least one of your friends has posted a photo of his or her workout regimes or healthy meals. Maybe you’re repulsed and disgusted by it.” ’Consider that part of the process.’ ’A ”first reaction [is] to resent how much their friends are posting sweat selfies and . .. drinking their shakes,” says Carl Daikeler, CEO of   workout company Beach Body.’ ’After all, the constant    nature of wellness is a sharp detour from how things used to be. It was once easy to ignore the need to have a healthy lifestyle; you could just go about your life without constant reminders that you could be healthy. ’ ’”However, it has been easy to completely ignore . .. an active lifestyle and food choices that would enhance your life,” said introduced iconic programs such as Insanity, P90X, and   Fix to the world.’ ’”It’’s been so easy to make that optional because it wasn’’t in your face [before]. Right?” he said. ”You go about your life, you’’ve got to do your job, your kids [are] expecting everything of you, but the one thing that was very easy to skip is exercise, and [it was] very easy to justify grabbing pizza because you worked so hard today and your boss yelled at you and you were under so much pressure that you just need a little gratification. ”’ ”That’s not an option anymore.” ’”However, the rise of Instagram . .. and now, Facebook, and now seeing people like you are fitting it into their day and they’’re putting in the effort and they’’re enjoying their life and doing things they never thought they could do,” Daikeler said.’ ”That could mean sharing a healthy meal that’s   or sharing   photos.” ’’ ’”For me, coming from being the trainer, I think that it’’s huge in the fact that it is all about sharing your success or sharing people’’s success,” Calabrese, who shares clients’’ results on her own Instagram page, said to Business Insider.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Marketing that comes directly from the customer is arguably more authentic than a commercial. When women see other women share their own journeys (or when a company shares a photo originally posted by someone) it undeniably can intrigue them to want to try that product, too. ’ ’’ ’Log on to Instagram and chances are at least. ..’