’New York Mets ace Noah Syndergaard is taking baseball by storm with one of the strongest starts to a year that MLB has seen.’ ’Through three starts, Syndergaard has a 0. 90 ERA, a 0. 95 WHIP, 29 strikeouts, and just 15 hits allowed, including no home runs.’ ’Syndergaard, affectionately known as ”Thor” for his long, blonde locks and insane arm, has upped the ante on his velocity this year, already topping 100 mph on 17 pitches this season, .’ ’And while his fastball is undoubtedly a major weapon, what’’s turning heads more is Syndergaard’’s new, mysterious pitch that some in baseball consider a cutter but others the rarely seen ”Warthen Slider. ”’ ’ last year, the Mets’’ starters were working on this slider, which focuses on a faster speed with more spin on the ball and a ”small, quick movement at the end.” Syndergaard, a rookie last season, however, was not among the players really looking to use the pitch.’ ”But now it appears that he’s adopted it, and the baseball world can’t figure it out.” ”As SI noted, in Syndergaard’s Monday start against the Philadelphia Phillies, in which he struck out eight while allowing one run in seven innings, he threw the pitch 20 times. The result: 15 strikes, 14 swings, and seven   . His best slider topped out at 95 mph, a virtually unseen speed for this type of pitch.” ’”MLB Tonight” broke down Syndergaard’’s slider, noting the uptick in usage this season:’ ’’ ”With the speed and spin, it’s an impossible pitch to hit:” ’’ ’’ ’Ripken later joked of his approach to trying to hit off Syndergaard, saying that he would quit.’ ” before Syndergaard’s third start he had thrown the pitch 23 times in   counts and recorded 11 strikeouts. In contrast, according to Simon, the average pitcher records a strikeout about 17% of the time when throwing a slider on   counts. Syndergaard was at 48% through two starts.” ’The baseball world is in awe of Syndergaard’’s talent at just 23. Former pitcher Curt Schilling told Simon of Syndergaard’’s ceiling, ”As high [as] or higher than anyone in the game.” A   scout told Simon that his ”ceiling is unlimited. Amazing talent. ”’ ”It’s even more impressive that this is a new skill:” ’’ ” ’t’t’tIt remains insane to consider that Noah Syndergaard may be throwing the most unhittable pitch in baseball, and he didn’t throw it last year! ’t’t” ’Third baseman  comparing him to a video game:’ ’The MLB season is still young, but Syndergaard is blowing away the baseball world, and he looks like the obvious candidate for the Cy Young Award this season.’ ’New York Mets ace Noah Syndergaard is taking. ..’