”Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting is over.” ”Over a   Q&A session, Berkshire CEO Warren Buffett and vice chairman Charlie Munger fielded questions about the company’s businesses, the world of negative interest rates, what the hardest part about being Berkshire Hathaway is, and how they got their sense of humor.” ”Below you can read, from start to finish, our full live blog published during Saturday’s Q&A,.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’”I’’m not sure how sensible how our comments will be translated into Mandarin. Not sure how sensible they come out in English,” Buffett says. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Buffett teases that just before lunch  —   about 12:45 p. m. ET  —   he’ll give his most imortant investing lesson. So I guess you’ve got to follow on until then, at least. ” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Buffett says the ”basic underwriting” at GEICO is improving, but hail storms in Texas impacted insurance performance in the first quarter. Buffett adds that the railroad industry is suffering and says the sectors results ”will almost certainly” continue to be down during the course of the year. ’ ’’ ”Buffett says Berkshire’s 10Q will be released next weekend. ” ’’ ’Loomis asks why Berkshire went from buying companies that requires tons of capex after previously preferring to buy leaner businesses. ’ ’”It’’s part of the problems of prosperity,” Buffett says. ”We’’d love to buy a company for $10 or $20 or $30 billion that is not capital intensive. And we may. But that is harder. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’”Increasing capital acts as an anchor on returns in many ways,” Buffett says. ’ ’’ ’”When our circumstances changed, we changed our minds,” Munger says.’ ’”Slowly and reluctantly,” Buffett adds. ’ ’’ ”Buffett says the alternative to buying businesses that require less capital would mean going back to working with less money. Which Buffett doesn’t think is going to happen. .. as he chuckles. ” ’’ ”Buffett says that Precision Castparts CEO Mark Donegan now doesn’t have to waste time on anything that doesn’t involve thinking about how to make that company better. Including, Buffett says, asking if he can buy a company or invest in a new plant with $1 billion. ” ’’ ’Precision Castparts will do better under Berkshire than it would have independently, Buffett says. ”Although it would’’ve done very, very well independently. ”’ ’’ ’Munger: We used to say back in the day that if you buy a business any idiot can manage eventually an idiot will.’ ”Munger adds that Precision requires superior management, and thinks Berkshire has become as good as finding businesses with good management as they once were at finding businesses that didn’t require great management to do well. ” ’’ ”When asked what he would’ve done differently to be happy, Buffett says he’s sitting on stage eating what he likes, talking about what he likes, with people what he likes. Says he couldn’t imagine anybody being much happier than him. ” ’”I’’ve managed to avoid aggravation of any sort,” Buffett says. ’ ’”I think Charlie finds what he’’s doing at 92 as interesting as anything he’’s done in his life,” Buffett says. ’ ’”It’’d be very churlish of me to have any kinds of complaints. If you’’re talking about business life, I don’’t think I would’’ve started with a textile company. ”’ ’’ ’”I do regret that I didn’’t wise up as fast as I could have. But there’’s a blessing in that, too: now that I’’m 92 there’’s a lot of ignorance I have left that I can work on,” Munger says. ’ ’’ ”On why Berkshire has sold down its holdings in Munich Re, Buffett cites the annual letter that he doesn’t think the reinsurance business will be as good in the next ten years as it’s been in the last ten. ” ”Buffett says what’s happened in interest rates is part of why this business will be less attractive. With low interest rates, the float insurance businesses generate provides less flexibility as it has less earning power. ” ’. ’ ’’ ’”We have considerably more flexibility with how we conduct all of our insurance operations, but particularly reinsurance. We have an extra string to our bow that the rest of the insurance industry doesn’’t have,” Buffett says. ’ ”The basic outline here is that with all of the cash Berkshire’s businesses generate, including but not limited to the insurance units, Buffett can do anything: buy a stock, buy a company, and so on. Meanwhile, a reinsurance business that doesn’t have the whole Berkshire conglomeration over the top of it has a more limited set of choices to reinvest its float. ” ’’ ’”Last year for the first time there was more driving and I think there was more distracted driving,” Buffett says, with why driving deaths went up last year, impacting results at GEICO and across the auto insurance business over the last year. ’ ’Asked why Progressive had such a better year than GEICO, Buffett said they simply had fewer costs: fewer accidents and less expensive ones. ’ ’’ ’”I don’’t think it’’s a tragedy that some competitor got a little better ratio over some period,” Munger on why he doesn’’t really care that Progressive had a better 2015 than GEICO. ’ ’”I don’’t think we should worry about the fact that somebody else had a good quarter. ”’ ’’ ’Buffett says the shift from what a shareholder calls ”push to pull marketing” is ”huge, really huge.” ’ ’”What [Amazon] has accomplished in a really short period of time is remarkable,” Buffett says. ’ ’”Charlie and I are not going to   Bezos, not by a longshot. It doesn’’t worry us in terms of the overwhelming majority of our businesses, but it is a huge economic trend that 20 years ago was not on anybody’’s radar screen. And lately has been on everybody’’s radar screen and many, including us in a few areas, have not figured out a way to counter it. ”’ ’’ ’”I would say that we failed so thoroughly in retailing when we were young that we pretty well avoided the worst troubles when we are old,” Munger says.’ ”Munger says the internet has helped GEICO and adds that its biggest retailers are so strong they’ll be among the last people to be impacted by Amazon. ” ’’ ’Q: Please explain directly why we, Berkshire Hathaway shareholders, should be proud to own Coke. ’ ”Buffett gives sort of a rambling answer about choice, about how he chooses to consume Coke and not everybody has to. Buffett also notes that there are 1. 9 billion   servings of   products consumed each day in the world, and given that there are thousands of products, well, those aren’t all Coke. ” ”This is, of course, not the first time Buffett has been asked this question and he’s been given many chances to explain why he thinks   is fine  —     —   but it simply seems that Buffett is not going to give into the suggestion that   is an immoral business or product.      ” ”On the ligher side, Buffett says he wishes he had a twin that only ate broccoli so we’d know who lives longer. ” ’’ ’Munger: I think people who ask about the negative impacts of Coke make an error: they only think about the bad things not the good thing. Says it would be like asking if we shouldn’’t fly since 100 people a year die in plane crashes. Munger says we should have a law where people can’’t only ask about the downsides of Coke without citing the advantages. He admits, however, that this line of thinking ”sounds a little bit like Donald Trump. ”’ ’’ ”Another  out of the Coke answer that is getting a lot of play is that if you do what makes you happy, you’ll live longer. ” ’This is all fine and well, the sort of quick   that makes people like Buffett and makes his commentary accessible. But the reality is that  and Coke sells drinks with a lot of it. ’ ”Munger, as a lawyer and thinker by trade, notes that you can’t just have questions one way. Fine.” ”But the research on sugar doesn’t really have two sides. The one side is a medical answer: sugar is bad. The other side is a personal choice to do something that is unhealthy; there are, after all, still lots of smokers despite what we know. Trying to balance medical evidence against personal choice is certainly a way of thinking about things but that is not the spirit of this question. Hence, why there are no answers, at least not from Buffett and Munger. ” ”Their commentary on global warming and the insurance business has the same feel: we just don’t think it’s what YOU think it is. ” ’The short of the Coke issue, then, is that Buffett basically does what makes him happy, and what makes Buffett happy is not answering questions about why owning lots of Coke stock is immoral because they sell lots of beverages with lots of sugar in them. ’ ’’ ’On derivatives, Buffett says he thinks large positions with derivatives are a dangerous thing. Both for the banks and insurers. ’ ’’ ’”Derivatives are still dangerous in large quantities. We would not do them on a collateralized basis because if there’’s a large quantity, we don’’t know where they’’re going to end up [when markted to market],” Buffett says.’ ’’ ’Buffett says derivatives are still a large time bomb in the financial system because ”anything with discontinuities” can cripple the system. ’ ’”I’’m not in the least troubled by our Bank of America position, nor am I troubled by our Wells Fargo position. ”’ ’’ ’”This annual meeting reminds me of the magical world of Hogwarts!” says shareholder. ’ ’”I haven’’t read Harry Potter but I’’ll take it as a compliment,” Buffett says. ’ ’’ ’The recent Harry Potter question from a shareholder encapsulates the whole problem with the Berkshire experience as it stands in 2016. ’ ’The media covers Buffett a lot because while he says lots of smart and quotable things about investing and business he is also a source of fascination. He seems to be a sort of American miracle, a folksy,    private citizen who became very rich by doing some simple things and investing over time. This is only partially true. ’ ’And the problem is that this sort of   vision of who Buffett is  —   in reality, a genius investor that happened to grow up in Omaha, the causality of where he is from and what he eats getting this almost completely wrong  —   gets conflated into questions where shareholders ask how Buffett feels being a god among men. ’ ’Which is, on its face, ridiculous. ’ ’The question eventually got down to a, ”What do I tell my children about the terrible world of people getting rich that I see today?” which is a naive interpretation of the lessons that you can actually learn from Buffett. ’ ’He doesn’’t have the answers on how, in a sort of ”Boy aren’’t these people just real idiots” kind of way to understand the world because it doesn’’t seem to me that he thinks about other people that way. Namely: things other people do don’’t really matter to him. Unless, of course, those people run a business he might invest in or compete with.’ ”So the whole idea that we’re going to learn something transcendent from a figure like Buffett is to misunderstand how he became who he is at all.” ’And when you make outrageous comaprisons like calling the Berkshire Hathaway meeting Hogwarts and compare Buffett and Munger to fictional characters that are written into books to be avatars of some moral lesson, the process of learning about investing from a veteran who knows things turns into a farcical worship of a smart person that happened to go into investing instead, say, manufacturing or politics. ’ ’”Woodstock for Capitalism” is the problem, I guess. ’ ’’ ’”We haven’’t the faintest idea what the   price of oil is,” Buffett says. ’ ”Buffett asked about the impact that oil prices are having on Berkshire’s holding  —   GEICO results hit by more driving, Berkshire buying Phillips 66 and selling ExxonMobil  —   but Buffett doesn’t think these are reflections of a view on the price of oil now or in the future. ” ’”We’’re thinking about other things [than the price of oil] when we make those decisions. ”’ ’’ ’”I think if you expect a lot of financial efficiency in American higher education you’’re howling at the wind,” Munger says in response to a question about rising student loan balances. ’ ’On educational philanthropy, Munger says he does a lot more than Buffett in this field, ”And I’’m frequently disappointed,” Munger says. ’ ’’ ’”The people in their working ages, in a rich society, have an obligation to both the young and the old. If we have problems with our school system it’’s not because we’’re cheap,” Buffett says. ”I was the trustee of a college that saw the endowment go from $8 million to over $1 billion, and I didn’’t see the tuition go down and I didn’’t see the number of students go up. ”’ ’’ ’”I’’ve made all the enemies I can afford at the moment,” Munger says. ’ ’’ ’Asked about how Donald Trump would impact Berkshire’’s investments, Warren Buffett says, ”That won’’t be the biggest problem. ”’ ’Munger says only, ”I’’m afraid to get into this area. ”’ ”Buffett thinks that it’s very likely either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump will be the next president and doesn’t think either would make a huge impact on Berkshire’s portfolio. ” ’”Business in this country has done extraordinarily well for a couple hundred years, and society has adapted to business and business has adapted to society,” Buffett says. ’ ’’ ’”I think the GDP figures greatly understate the huge advantages the system have given our citizens,” Munger says.’ ’Buffett and Munger now effectively quoting the annual letter section on why you ought to be bullish on America.’ ’. ’ ’’ ”On the subject of an activist investor eventually looking to break up Berkshire Hathaway, Buffett says it is something he used to worry about but no longer does. Even after Buffett’s death, the schedule with which his estate is already committed to unloading his shares will leave them as the largest shareholder of the company for some time.” ’’ ’Very   response to what Buffett thinks of the Sequoia Fund, which has taken a beating recently given the massive position in Valeant the fund eventually took, leading to a decline in fund value and redemptions. ’ ’”I don’’t know of a mutual fund in the US that has a better record than Sequioa,” Buffett says. ”My understanding is that the manager who made the decision on Valeant is no longer running the operation.” ’ ’Basically, Buffett is not going to give the kind of harsh Valeant quote that Munger delievered last year.’ ’’ ’Scratch that: Buffett on Valeant.’ ’”In my view the business model of Valeant was enormously flawed. It was touted to us, people wanted us to meet [former Valeant CEO Mike] Pearson and so on. But it illustrated a principle that, ’’If you’’re looking for a manger find someone that’’s intelligent, energetic, and integrity. And if they don’’t have the last, make sure they don’’t have the first two. ’’”’ ’’ ’”Valeant of course was a sewer, and those that created it deserved all the opprobrium that they got,” Munger says. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’”This might be a terrible result for the hedge funds, but it’’s not a terrible result for the hedge fund managers,” Buffett says. ’ ’’ ”Buffett’s   piece of investment advice is: don’t pay for investment advice, buy a   S&P 500 index fund instead. ” ’’ ”The basic idea is that while there are some people who might be good investors there’s no way to identify them. ” ”So don’t even bother, Buffett says. ” ’’ ”We’ll be back in an hour.” ’’ ”Lunch is over, we’ll be here until 4:30 p. m. ET. Having fun yet? ” ’’ ”On succession and culture, Buffett says the main factor in keeping Berkshire’s culture is having a board, managers, and shareholders that all recognize the nature of the culture. To summarize what Buffett wants Berkshire’s culture to be in one sentence, he wants a structure in which every business operates completely independently with all of the big capital allocation decisions running through him. ” ”Buffett thinks there’s only a small chance the company goes off the rails and thinks the biggest problem the company will have is size. ” ’”Size is the enemy of performance. ”’ ’’ ’Munger on succession: ”I’’m even more optimistic than [Warren Buffett. ]”’ ’’ ’Asked about Berkshire’’s share repurchase plan, which says shares can be bought when the share price gets below 1. 2x book value, Buffett says that he has ”mixed emotions” on the issue. ’ ”Buffett says that buying back stock is the surest way to increase earnings per share. The math is simple. But Buffett doesn’t love the idea of buying out his partners  —   shareholders  —   unless the stock really seems like a good value.” ’At 1. 2x book value, Buffett says the odds are ”extremely high” they’’d repurchase shares. ’ ’’ ’Buffett says the company could increase its share repurchase ”trigger” level up from 1. 2x book value if they decide that there really isn’’t anything else as attractive as repurchasing shares to allocate capital to. ’ ’’ ’Munger: ”Elsewhere in coporate America these buyback plans really get a life of their own. ”’ ’Buffett: ”It’’s fashionable. ”’ ’’ ”The only things that worry Buffett with respect to Berkshire’s future prosperity are terrorist attacks, or CNBC: Cyber, Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical attacks. ” ’”Being in the insurance business, you know that someday somebody will pull off something on a very, very, very big scale. That’’s the one huge disadvantage to innovation,” Buffett says. ’ ’’ ’”We will not be making investments in companies with a total market cap of a couple billion,” Buffett says.’ ”Buffett says that 99% of his next worth is tied up in Berkshire while 1% exists outside of this. Occassionally, he buys stocks that he won’t buy for Berkshire and says he tries to stay away from anything that conflicts with Berkshire. ” ’Buffett does own some Seritage Growth Properties personally, a REIT, and says that the size of this company and its industry is just not something Berkshire would ever invest in. ’ ’”I would much rather make money for Berkshire than for myself,” Buffett says, adding that ”everything is more wound up in how Berkshire does. I know my end result is $0 and I don’’t want the end result for Berkshire to be $0. ”’ ’’ ’Munger on why Berkshire Hathaway doesn’’t have the   credit rating agency: ”The ratings agencies are wrong. ”’ ’’ ’”Very cheap money makes me pay a little bit more for businesses,” Buffett says. ’ ’Buffett says that for 2, 600 years we had a rule that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, but now a bird in the hand is worth about   a bird in the bush. ’ ’Basically: negative interest rates turn everything we know about banking on its head. ’ ”But the actual impact on Berkshire’s businesses from low or negative rates is that it simply taks more money to do things with its cash when the cash itself is less valuable. ” ’’ ’Munger on negative rates: ”If you’’re not confused you haven’’t thought about it.” ’ ’’ ’”We reasses our reasons for owning almost all investments on a continual basis. ”’ ’With respect to American Express, Buffett says that there’’s ”no doubt” payments are an interesting area to a lot of people with a lot of money and a lot of smarts, but Buffett says the company’’s position  —   which has been under attack for decades  —   will continue to be under attack. ’ ’”A lot of great businesses aren’’t quite as great as they used to be,” Munger says, citing auto companies and packaged goods businesses like those owned by Procter & Gamble. ’ ’”When I was young, General Motors loomed over the economy like a colossus,” Munger says. ’ ”The lesson: things change and you can’t react in your portfolio to every change but you’ve also got to accept and acknowledge that change is inevitable. Recall that earlier this was the same line of thinking used by Munger when talking about why the company’s acquisitions went from less to more   businesses. ” ’’ ’”I know a few people who have done reasonably well raising cattle, but they usually owned a bank on the side,” Buffett says after getting asked about getting into the cattle business by a shareholder who owns a cattle farm.’ ’’ ’”There’’s not another Ajit [Jain] in the house,” Buffett says. ’ ’Asked earlier about Jain’’s elevation to look after all of Berkshire’’s reinsurance operations, Buffett said there are, ”no tea leaves to read” with respect to whether these added responsibilities were the beginning of a process that would see Jain take the reins as CEO of the company one day. ’ ”The question of succession, as tends to be the case, has come up time and again during this year’s meeting but the situation on the ground really remains the same: we’re not going to know who takes control of Berkshire until someone not named Warren Buffett takes control of Berkshire. ” ’’ ’”I am trying to think of very big deals that we can do,” Buffett says, either taking stock positions or buying businesses outright. ’ ’Asked about the investment portfolio of Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, Buffett said they have similiar approaches to what Buffett himself uses but says they have smaller portfolios. This does, however, give them a bigger universe of possible ideas and investments. ’ ’’ ’”If you see the world accurately it’’s bound to be humorous because it’’s ridiculous.”  —   Charlie Munger.’ ”And with that, we’re done!” ’Thanks for reading. ’ ”Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting is over. ..”