 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good morning. Just a reminder, we’re off tomorrow for Thanksgiving and back on Friday. Here’s what you need to know today: • Team Trump’s possible new members.   Donald J. Trump named Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina to be ambassador to the United Nations. Mr. Trump is also moving closer to filling more domestic cabinet positions. His Republican primary rival Ben Carson is being considered for housing secretary. Two Democrats, Harold Ford Jr. who represented Tennessee in the House, and Michelle A. Rhee, the former chancellor for Washington, D. C. public schools, have surfaced as contenders to run the transportation and education departments. • Trump at The Times. The   retreated from vows to pull out of the Paris climate accord and to investigate Hillary Clinton during his interview with Times reporters and editors. Mr. Trump also said that he didn’t “want to energize” white supremacists and that he had no legal obligation to step away from his business empire. Here are more highlights and the full transcript. • West Wing vs. left wing. Resistance is building against Representative Keith Ellison’s bid to become chairman of the Democratic National Committee. His supporters, who include Senators Chuck Schumer, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, view Mr. Ellison as a fresh face for the party. But President Obama’s advisers, uneasy with the progressive Minnesota lawmaker, are looking for an alternative, according to some party officials. Some in the president’s inner circle hoped that Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. would want the job, but his office said he’s “not interested. ” • Global warming news. Exxon Mobil, under fire over its past efforts to undercut climate science, is accusing the Rockefeller family of masterminding a conspiracy against it. The descendants of John D. Rockefeller, who founded the company that became Exxon Mobil, have long backed environmental causes. Separately, the ecology of the Arctic is being altered on a vast scale because warmer air and less ice has caused algae that form the base of the oceanic food chain to wildly proliferate, according to new research. The changes are likely to have a profound impact on birds, seals, polar bears and whales. • Autocrat’s cuddly makeover. Ramzan A. Kadyrov, the warlord leader of Chechnya, is appearing on a Russian reality TV show that echoes “The Apprentice” in an effort to change his brutal reputation. In one episode, Mr. Kadyrov described his motivation: “People believe my image that was created by the liberals, that I am frightening, that I will kill whoever says anything about me, that I will put them in a dungeon and stab them. ” • A regulation expanding by millions the number of eligible workers for     overtime pay was hit with an injunction by a federal judge in Texas. He ruled that the Obama administration had exceeded its authority in raising the salary limit below which workers automatically qualified for overtime pay to $47, 476 from $23, 660. • Facebook has devised software to suppress posts in an effort to gain access to China, where it is blocked. The company does not intend to block the posts itself, but it would offer the software to enable a third party to decide whether posts should show up in users’ feeds. • Americans are expected to spend more than $880 billion during the holiday shopping season this year. But if you’re planning to shop on Black Friday this week, beware, most deals are duds, our technology writer warns. • U. S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • A twist on Thanksgiving. Our latest 360 video looks at a San Francisco restaurant that hosts a holiday meal for its employees and serves Burmese delicacies. • Sound is no barrier. Lee   of South Korea is an    professional tennis player ranked 143rd in the world. Lee is also deaf, and no deaf player in the sport’s history has reached these heights. Top players say that hearing the ball is crucial for quick reactions, but Lee is less certain. “It doesn’t really matter,” he said of his impairment. He is concerned, however, about a different physical limitation: Lee is 5 feet 9, and most players ranked in the top 50 are over 6 feet. • Mindful traveling. Flying during the holidays is often stressful. Here are some meditation tips for coping with long security lines and anxiety on the plane. • Recipe of the day. For a simple dinner, roast a fish and pair it with an aioli. Finally, we’ve been talking a lot about Thanksgiving dinner, but what do you serve before the meal? Here are some recipes for appetizers on the big day. A handwritten poem scrawled by Anne Frank in a friend’s notebook was up for sale in the Netherlands today. The item was sold to an anonymous buyer for 140, 000 euros, or about $148, 500, according to Bubb Kuyper Auctions. (The poem was expected to fetch up to €50, 000.) Anne penned the short poem in a notebook belonging to her friend Jacqueline van Maarsen’s older sister, Christiane. The work is dated March 1942, just a few months before Anne, her older sister, her parents and another family went into hiding from the Nazis in Amsterdam. Only her father survived the Holocaust. Only a few of her writings aside from the diary she kept while in hiding have emerged. This spring, a Massachusetts museum bought a copy of Grimm’s fairy tales in which Anne had inscribed her and her sister’s names. In 1989, another short piece of verse written in a friend’s notebook went on sale at Christie’s. The poem’s opening features traditional lines of encouragement and can be traced to a 1930s Dutch periodical. The closing verses, which the auction house has not traced, may be Anne’s own. “If others have reproached   what you have done wrong,” the poem ends, “Then be sure to amend your   is the best answer one can make. ” Christopher D. Shea contributed reporting. _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version  of the briefing should help. Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning. What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes. com. You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.