’’ ’On October 9, 1913, President Woodrow Wilson opened the Panama Canal by dynamiting the final dikes holding the water at bay.’ ’He did it from the comfort of the White House, keying a telegraph transmitter that set off the explosion from over 2, 000 miles away.’ ’In the 103 years since Wilson pushed that button, the Panama Canal has become an international shipping bottleneck, as container ships grew too large for its aging locks.’ ’Much of that will change in June, when a $5. 25 billion effort to expand the canal reaches its   conclusion, allowing ships more than 2   times the size of the current limit to pass through the waterway.’ ’The increased capacity could have profound effects on the US transportation industry, as the cost of shipping from Asia to ports in the eastern US would drop significantly. Simply put, bigger ships are more economically efficient and have lower   costs.’ ’Larger ships and lower costs meant importers traditionally chose to bring in goods from Asia at West Coast ports and then to the eastern US by rail.’ ”But if the canal’s increased capacity lowers shipping costs to the East Coast by enough, it could mean a sizable loss of freight volume over time for western American railroads, Nerijus Poskus, an expert on international shipping at the booking company Flexport, ” ”If shippers chose to go through the canal, western railroads such as BNSF, best known as a subsidiary of Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, and Union Pacific could suffer a drop in freight volume, while eastern railroads like Norfolk Southern, CN, and CSX could see an increase, Poskus said.” ’’ ’”Cargo going to Houston used to go to the West Coast,” Poskus said, adding that it ”will now be going through the Panama Canal. ”’ ’Already, the shipping giants Maersk and MSC have announced a service to Mobile, Alabama, beginning early next month in anticipation of the canal expansion. Other companies are likely to follow suit.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’And in the short term, many East Coast ports cannot yet accommodate even that limit.’ ’Savannah, Georgia, already one of the busiest ports in the US, began a $706 million project to dredge its main waterway by 5 feet, but the project will not be concluded until 2021, the .’ ”In New York, container ships are limited by the height of the Bayonne Bridge, which straddles the port’s entrance. A project  will finish in 2019, according to the Port Authority.” ’”The other thing that many folks don’’t incorporate into any analysis of this is the boxes,” Vernon said.’ ’A shift in the amount of cargo taking a      trip though the Panama Canal and to the East Coast would mean that much more cargo is at sea at any given time, requiring   shipping companies to buy more shipping containers to maintain the flow of goods  —   an investment they are unlikely to want to make, Vernon said.’ ’’ ’’ ’The ultimate impact of the canal on other industries depends on many unpredictable elements, including the weather. The canal is restricted by the water levels in Lake Gatun, which are ’ ’Add all of this together, and it may be years before the canal once again causes an upheaval in international commerce.’ ’’ ’On October 9, 1913, President Woodrow Wilson. ..’