’’ ’EgyptAir has retracted its statement that wreckage from flight MS804 has been found near Greece’s Karpathos Island, .’ ’”We stand corrected on finding the wreckage,” Ahmed Adel, EgyptAir’’s Vice President, told CNN on Thursday. ’ ’Flight MS804 crashed heading from Paris to Cairo early Thursday morning.’ ’Greek officials initially said they had located pieces of plastic and two life jackets in the Mediterranean Sea,’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’US Secretary of State John Kerry said he had no special information about why the plane disappeared and added that he would not speculate on the cause.’ ’’ ’Egypt and Greece have deployed military aircraft and a frigate to search the area, and a sea search is still underway. The French military says a Falcon surveillance jet monitoring the Mediterranean for migrants had been diverted to help the sea search.’ ’’ ’US officials later told CNN that there are early indications a bomb took down the plane. Israeli officials have definitively ruled the crash a terror attack.’ ’Still, some experts say there is nothing about the evidence so far that points directly to a terror attack.’ ’”It could be a catastrophic mechanical malfunction, some kind of crew error, and so on,” Patrick Smith, airline pilot and author of the book ”Cockpit Confidential,” told Business Insider on Thursday. ”The plane’’s maneuvers by themselves don’t indicate a whole lot. It’s just too early to be speculating so broadly. ”’ ’Weather conditions in the area of were ”clear and calm,” CNN meteorologist Michael Guy .’ ’British pilot Alan Carter, who was flying a Boeing 747  at the same time as MS804, told the BBC conditions were ”perfect” and ”all air traffic communications were operating normal. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Flights over Egypt have encountered trouble on several occasions in the past year, prompting aviation authorities to instruct pilots to fly above 26, 000 feet in the region.’ ’In October 2015, a Russian airliner  killing all 224 people on board.’ ’In March 2016, an EgyptAir flight was  in Cyprus, prompting an hourslong standoff. No one was harmed in that incident.’ ’In 2002, an EgyptAir Boeing 737 went down near   International Airport, killing 14.’ ’In 1999, an  with a stop in New York, crashed into the Atlantic Ocean, 60 miles off Nantucket Island, killing the 217 people on board.’ ’The EgyptAir flight that disappeared on Thursday was delivered to EgyptAir in 2003 and had logged 48, 000 flight hours, Airbus said in a statement on its Facebook page. The plane had engines made by the   engine consortium IAE.’ ’Airbus said it was ready to help authorities investigating the disappearance and said ”our concerns go out to all those affected. ”’ ’Smith, the pilot, was still reluctant to characterize EgyptAir as unsafe.’ ’This story is developing. .’ ’EgyptAir has retracted its statement that. ..’