’Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau apologized after he was accused of elbowing a female legislator during a chaotic exchange in the House of Commons that quickly devolved into a shouting match.’ ”The lawmakers were on the verge of a vote concerning the government’s   bill when the incident happened on Wednesday evening.” ” shows several members of the country’s New Democratic Party (NDP) standing in the way of Gord Brown, the whip for the Conservative Party.” ’Trudeau is then seen striding down the floor to grasp Brown by the arm  —   a move that one lawmaker later called ”manhandling”  —   while elbowing NDP politician Ruth Ellen Brosseau in the chest.’ ’NDP leader Tom Mulcair can later be heard yelling, ”What kind of man elbows a woman? It’’s pathetic! You’’re pathetic! ”’ ’Brosseau later told the House she was  by the altercation, the Canadian Press reported.’ ’“I was elbowed in the chest by the prime minister and then I had to leave,” she said. “It was very overwhelming and so I left the chamber to go and sit in the lobby. I missed the vote because of this. ”’ ’Another NDP member of parliament, ’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tVideo here clearly shows PM Trudeau grabbing Oppo Whip and harshly elbowing NDP MP Ruth Ellen Brosseau  ’ ’Trudeau said that he took full responsibility for the ”unacceptable” incident, the CBC .’ ’”I want to take the opportunity . .. to be able to express directly to [Brosseau] my apologies for my behavior and my actions, unreservedly,” he said.’ ’He continued:’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’  Brasseau ”I was elbowed in the chest by the Prime Minister. ”’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tWATCH   PM Trudeau &  Mulcair in heated exchange on HoC floor. Whoa.    ’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’t”Outside, people would call what happened here assault,” says Niki Ashton. ’t’t’ ’Lawmakers later appeared split on whether the elbowing was intentional or accidental.’ ’Peter Van Loan, a Conservative member of Parliament, called it an ”extraordinary example of physical intimidation.” Green Party leader Elizabeth May said that it appeared unintentional, but ”unwise. ”’ ’”I saw the Prime Minister approaching and following the honorable member, trying to reach her and saying how very sorry he was, he had not seen her behind him,” May said.’ ”The speaker of the House of Commons, Geoff Regan, chastised Trudeau for the incident and said that Brosseau’s privileges as a member of Parliament  the Associated Press reported. The encounter will be examined by an   committee.” ’’ ’’ ’He has faced similar criticism in the past for his . During a 2011 debate on the Kyoto Protocol, Trudeau shouted that environment minister Peter Kent was a ”piece of   .” He apologized shortly after.’ ’Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. ..’