’’ ”We’ve all heard of the #YOLO lifestyle. But when it comes to investing, millennials aren’t ready to take on     kind of risk.” ’They focus on   needs and tend to stick with   investments, according to a recent  by Sameer Aurora, the head of client strategy for UBS Wealth Management Americas, ’ ’”Even though they have a longer investment window, millennials hold almost twice as much cash in their portfolios as baby boomers,” Aurora told Business Insider in a phone interview. ”The inference we can draw is that they’’re more focused on the short term and present time as opposed to building wealth in the long run. ”’ ’Unlike boomers, millennials have bucked many traditional investing principles, such as ”” and following a financial plan. Among those who have retirement accounts,   have already dipped into them, according to UBS’’ report.’ ”That’s something the boomer generation would have never dreamed of. Plus, these young investors are going against the typical advice of putting money into riskier investments earlier and then moving into safer investments as they inch toward retirement.” ”Take    engineer Justin Schulte, one of the millennials surveyed by UBS. Schulte, who is married with two kids, said he wasn’t too worried about returns.” ’”As long as I’’m outpacing inflation and on track in achieving my personal goals, I’’m not a whole lot concerned about how the market’’s doing,” Schulte told Business Insider.’ ’Even though Schulte and his wife are expecting a third child soon, they are staying the course financially. ”Obviously we have a bigger car and home, but overall our saving goals and investing goals haven’’t changed drastically,” he said.’ ”David Dunn, chief investment officer at Kingsbridge Wealth Management, told Business Insider that he saw a clear generational shift in priorities while discussing investment goals with the eight     US families that make up his firm’s clientele.” ’The behavior of younger investors will have huge consequences in the near future. By 2020, Gen X and millennials will control more than half of all investable assets  —   about $30 trillion, according to a  by PricewaterhouseCoopers.’ ’That generational shift is leading a crop of   and   startups to challenge and sometimes  with their more traditional counterparts to attract younger investors.’ ”Like  out there, Dunn is worried about  ’ ability to capture a nuanced understanding of people’s motivations and goals, since these platforms, which use automation to manage portfolios, operate under the assumption that investors act rationally. In reality, people have social and emotional biases that don’t fit the model of an ideal decision maker, he said.” ’  or not, this crop of young investors will make noise in the   industry.’ ”We’ve all heard of the #YOLO lifestyle. But. ..”