’  ’ ”   In addition to being a humanitarian nightmare, the     Syrian conflict has wreaked havoc on the country’s economy. ” ’   And the damage to both human capital and infrastructure could   keep economic growth muted going forward   even if the conflict   ends within a few years. ’ ’   Operating under the assumption that the conflict will continue on   for ”several more years,” a BMI Research team forecasts that the   Syrian economy will contract by an average of 3. 9% annually from   2016 to 2019. This will drag down the beleaguered economy to its     size. ’ ’   ”  destruction amid the protraction of the current   civil war will continue to damage the Syrian economy over the   coming decade,” the BMI Research team argued in a recent report. ’ ’   ”We project a return to growth only in 2020, mostly reflecting   low base effects and the influx of external funding, including   humanitarian aid, and investment from Russia and Iran,” the team   continued. ”Syria will become increasingly reliant on external   assistance, especially from Iran and Russia, amid the depletion   of government resources.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Since 2011, all of the components of Syria’s GDP have plunged     with serious drops in manufacturing and agriculture. The chart   shows the stunning drops in Syria’s GDP growth rates, including   the estimated 25% contractions    in 2012 and 2013. ” ”   Exports have lost 80% of their real value from 2010 to 2015,   according to BMI’s estimates. ” ”   Plus, oil output has dropped significantly in recent years, given   that  are  of ISIS   aka the Islamic State, ISIL, or   Daesh. And that’s significant because, although Syria was not one   of the world’s biggest oil producers, the commodity still   accounted for about 50% of its exports and about 30% of the   government’s revenue . ” ’   ”We do not forecast a recovery in exports before 2021, as   transportation infrastructure will take time to rebuild,” the BMI   team argued. ’ ’  ’ ’   Another huge,   economic problem facing Syria is the   demographic catastrophe caused by the war. ’ ”   The country’s   population was  22 million, but an estimated  have left the country to date   a number   that’s equal to about 22% of that initial population. ” ’   Moreover, about 6. 6 million refugees have been displaced within   Syria, . ’ ’   Another extremely scary statistic for the long run is that an    children are not currently in   school. ’ ’   Notably, there are also differences between different regions   within the country, depending on whether they are controlled by   the government, rebel groups, or the Islamic State. As the BMI   research team explained in their report: ’ ”   In sum, Syria’s economy has been seriously damaged by the   conflict   and it’s highly unlikely that there will be a quick   fix. ” ’In addition to being a humanitarian nightmare. ..’