’  ’ ”   Domino’s Pizza is looking to loyalty to drive increased sales.  ” ’   Last fall, the company rolled out its first nationwide loyalty   program: Piece of the Pie Rewards. ’ ”   Signing up through the Domino’s app is easy, and once a customer   enters the program, they can start earning free pizza for placing   repeat orders online. ” ”   It’s been more than two quarters since Domino’s introduced the   program    enough time to get a sense of its effect on the   company’s underlying business. ” ”   During Domino’s April earnings call, management offered up some   color on Piece of the Pie’s performance. ” ”   Domino’s   sales rose 6. 4% in the U. S. last quarter on   an annual basis. At stores owned by franchisees, sales rose 6. 6%   better than the 6% analysts had been anticipating. Notably, that   marks the 20th consecutive quarter of positive U. S.     sales growth    an impressive streak. What’s behind those   stronger sales? ” ’   According to Domino’’s management, the company’’s new loyalty   program is playing an important role. ”We’’re feeling good about   the loyalty program. ..it clearly was a positive contributor to   comps in the first quarter, and we’’re seeing enough on it that   we’’re feeling good about how it’’s going to affect the growth [of]   the business going forward,” Domino’’s CFO Jeff Lawrence said on   the company’’s first quarter earnings call. ’ ’   Likewise, in February, Domino’’s management made similar remarks   about the program’’s effect on the company’’s fourth quarter. ”Our   loyalty program was launched during the fourth quarter [and] has   produced encouraging early results, feedback, and engagement from   our digital customers. ’ ’   This introduction had a positive impact on the fourth quarter,   and we look forward to continuing to introduce it to our growing   digital audience,” Domino’’s CEO Patrick Doyle said. ’ ”   Piece of the Pie is not complicated, and is relatively easy to   understand. If a customer places an online order totaling $10 or   more (about the equivalent of a medium,   pizza) they   earn 10 points, and they can earn up to 10 points per day. For   every 60 points they accumulate, they earn a free medium     pizza. That’s it. ” ’  ’ ”   Obviously, simplicity confers a host of benefits, but Domino’s   management has been straightforward in laying out the goals it’s   hoping to achieve. ” ”   Piece of the Pie doesn’t reward big spenders, but rather repeat   customers. The customer who buys $100 worth of pizza and the   customer who buys $11 worth of pizza earn the same number of   points. ” ”   That’s intentional: Piece of the Pie is about driving volume, not   increasing the size of individual orders. On Domino’s February   earnings call Doyle discusses this: ” ”     We’re trying to drive volume in our business. It’s about     driving frequency and retention of those customers. I think     it’s a fundamental choice that brands need to make on whether     or not it’s going to be about driving ticket and overall sales     versus frequency of the customers. And we clearly chose that we     want to drive order counts within our system.   ” ”   That stands in stark contrast to the changes coffee giant    made to its loyalty program back in April.   For years, Starbucks operated a system roughly similar to   Domino’s Piece of the Pie: after purchasing 12 drinks, . ” ’   Now, under the new system, Starbucks customers are rewarded not   for the number of drinks they purchase, but on the basis of how   much money they spend. ’ ”   Starbuck’s old system was designed to drive volume, encouraging   coffee drinkers to make daily trips to their local Starbucks for   their cup of coffee. Starbucks’ new system, in contrast, doesn’t   so much reward regular loyalty, as it encourages customers to   order more expensive drinks, or to purchase other items like   pastries and breakfast sandwiches alongside their beverage. ” ”   Starbucks has made growing its food business a top priority for   the company, and it’s finding some success. Last quarter,   Starbucks food revenue rose 16% on an annual basis. In total, it   generated 20% of Starbucks’ U. S. revenue, its highest share ever.   Starbucks’ new loyalty program should help its food sales rise   even further. ” ’   Back in February, Doyle was asked to contrast Domino’’s loyalty   program with Starbucks’’. ”I am aware of [the change Starbucks]   made. ..But for us, as low as our market share is overall within   the pizza category, we think it makes sense to be focusing   primarily on order counts.” Domino’’s is one of the nation’’s   largest pizza chains, but its share of the pizza market remains   below 20%. ’ ”   Starbucks and Domino’s loyalty programs are important to both   companies, and are similar in the sense that they both leverage   the investments the companies have made in technology, and in   their apps. But they’re ultimately pursuing two different   strategies, and the differing structure of their loyalty programs   reflects that. ” ’  has no position in any stocks   mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends   Starbucks. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services . We Fools may not all hold   the same opinions, but we all believe that  makes us better investors. The   Motley Fool has a . ’ ”Domino’s Pizza is looking to loyalty to. ..”