’  ’ ’   Every day Shirly Delgado makes a choice   whether to do without   breakfast, lunch, or dinner. One of them has to go if she wants   her three children to eat three times a day. ’ ’   ”I delay breakfast for as long as I can. Instead of doing it   early, I serve it around 10 or 11 in the morning, so it overlaps   with lunch,” she says. ”If I eat lunch, I don’’t have breakfast.   It’’s one or the other.” ’ ”   The family lives in La Pastora, a poor area in western Caracas,   where Delgado lines up for hours every day outside her   neighborhood’s supply store to see what she can get, which is   rarely enough. It’s been months since her four year old drank   milk. ” ’   The National Survey of Life Conditions, known as the  and carried out by   three Venezuelan universities, found that 12 percent of the   population were eating two or less meals a day in 2015. ’ ”   Venezuela’s economic crisis   marked by rampant inflation and   chronic shortages of subsidized goods   has got even worse this   year triggering a wave of food riots in recent weeks. ” ’   Some have broken out in the long lines that start forming long   before dawn in the hope of getting subsidized goods that are   always in short supply and often  . Other have   involved storming government food trucks or stores. ’ ’The police response also appears to be getting   more extreme. This Monday Jenny Ortiz died from wounds she   received the day before when police shot into a crowd of hundreds   that was breaking into a government warehouse in the city of San   Cristóbal, near the border with Colombia. ’ ’  ’ ’   Local reports said the    Ortiz was looking for flour   and sugar when the security forces shot her in the face. ’ ’   José Vielma, governor of the Tachira state, where San Cristóbal   is located, admitted to reporters that police bullets killed the   woman. He also sought to distance the authorities from any blame,   claiming that the riot was ”orchestrated by the right,” and that   any officer who shot into the crowd did so ”of their own will.” ’ ’   Vielma’’s words echoed the line set by President Nicolás Maduro   who has repeatedly claimed that Venezuela’’s desperate economic   situation   which includes newborns dying in hospitals for want   of the most basic care   is the product of a plot hatched by rich   Venezuelans backed by foreign imperialists. Maduro alleges that   the plot is rooted in hatred of the ”socialist” policies promoted   first by his predecessor and mentor, the late and     President Hugo Chávez. ’ ’  ’ ”   But as the crisis intensifies, patience is running thin with that   argument even among once   Chavistas in the   capital, and the political opposition’s attempts to force a   recall referendum on Maduro are gathering steam. ” ’   Police used tear gas to break up a protest in downtown Caracas   late last week, just a few blocks from the presidential   headquarters at Miraflores. ”We are hungry,” protesters shouted.   ”We want food.” ’ ’   According to the 2015 ENCOVI survey, up to 12 percent of the   children living in cities do not get enough food. The figure   rises to 19 percent of children who live in provincial cities. It   increases to 27 out of every 100 children in rural areas. ’ ’   For many families, the government program providing free   breakfast and lunch for school kids used to represent a safety   net. Some schools, however, are now informing parents this is no   longer possible. ’ ’   Maryeni, a resident in the poor neighborhood of Catia in western   Caracas, says she keeps her    at home when she cannot   afford to give him food to take to school. ”I don’’t have enough   money,” she said. ”I don’’t know how these children will turn out,   hungry and without an education.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The Bengoa Association for Eating and Nutrition works closely   with Venezuelan schools and has been monitoring nutritional   levels in the country for decades. It calculates that between 25   and 30 percent of children are not going to school. ’ ’   ”There’’s a shortage in the network of distribution, and schools   receive food subsidized by the government, and if they don’’t get   food they cannot fulfill the school dining program,” said Maritza   Landaeta de Jiménez, a doctor attached to the association.   ”Mothers have no food and they prefer to leave their kids   sleeping at home.” ’ ’   Landaeta is careful to stress that what is happening in Venezuela   is not a famine but hunger rooted in the economic crisis and   distribution issues. She also underlines that the situation is   deteriorating. ’ ’   ”Things have quickly turned worse,” she said. ”The nutritional   value of the families’’ diets is dropping fast.” ’ ’   Insufficient calories is not the only problem. The ENCOVI study   defines animal protein as ”a luxury food item.” It found that   only 43 percent of Venezuelans can afford to eat dairy products,   25 percent buy eggs, and 29 percent can buy fruit. ’ ”   In its most recent attempt to tackle the problem, the government   created local committees that go house to house handing out bags   of food with basic goods, such as rice, milk, oil, sugar, and   cornflour. The network, however, reaches only part of the   population and is also not enough to cover a family’s dietary   requirements. ” ’   Meanwhile, at the same time as President Maduro blames the food   shortages on an ”economic war” he says the private sector is   waging against Venezuela’’s socialist government, the private   sector blames government mismanagement and corruption.   Venezuela’’s manufacturing sector   which is working at 42 percent   of its capacity, according to Conindustria, the country’’s   industrial chamber   stresses its lack of access to foreign   currency to buy supplies and raw materials. ’ ’   At the same time Imports have also dropped dramatically. Trade   minister, Miguel Pérez Abad, recently told Reuters that imports   have decreased 60 percent compared to 2015. So with local   production contracts and imports tumbling, no wonder the shelves   are empty. According to economist Luis Vicente León, of the   consulting agency Datanálisis, about 83 percent of products are   not available in Caracas. And the capital city is by far the best   supplied place in the country. ’ ’   Lining up outside one store,    Nena said she had just   shared one plate of food with her partner and their three   children. ”There’’s just not enough food for everyone,” she said. ’ ’Every day Shirly Delgado makes a choice  —  . ..’