’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   The suspected gunman,    Omar Mateen,   ’ ’”some connection to ISIS,” ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   Mateen ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’He noted that his son got angry when he saw two   men kissing in Miami a couple of months ago and thinks that   homophobia may have inspired his son to attack the nightclub. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We are saying we are apologizing for the whole incident. We   weren’’t aware of any action he is taking. We are in shock like   the whole country,” Seddique said. ’ ’   Seddique has  where he has expressed his support   for the Afghan Taliban, and recently declared his candicacy for   the Afghan presidency. ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’fellow at the International Center for the Study of   Terrorism at Penn State, told Business Insider.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Tashfeen Malik   the female shooter in the San   Bernardino attack that left 14 people dead   pledged allegiance   to ISIS leader Abu Bakr   on Facebook during the   rampage. ’ ’   ”This was an act of terror and an act of hate of the LGBT   community,” Bloom added. ”ISIS is well known for despising and   hunting down gay people, throwing them off the tallest buildings   in Raqqa, etc. But we need more information to know whether there   was anything more than a superficial (and  ) connection   to ISIS.” ’ ’  ’ ’ ”was organized and    .”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Mateen worked as a security guard in Fort Pierce and rented a car   to drive to Orlando and carry out the attack,  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I call on my fellow faith leaders . .. please pray for the   victims and their families at this hour,” he said during a press   conference. ”I want to caution anyone from rushing to judgment or   sensationalizing the story, because we do not want the focus of   the story to shift from what it is: a horrible tragedy. We are   mourning, we are heartbroken.”  ’ ”   Mateen entered Pulse shortly before 2 a. m. after exhanging fire   with an   police officer working security at the club,   police said in a press conference. He was armed with an     assault rifle and a handgun, according to     officials’ description of the incident. TMZ has reported that   Mateen had a state firearms license.  ” ’   Mateen barricaded himself inside the nightclub and took hostages   just after 2 a. m. and was negotiating with police when he gave   them his name, according to CNN. A SWAT team entered the club   about three hours later, after ensuring Mateen did not have a   bomb, and shot the suspect.  ’ ’   At least 53 people were wounded and have been transported to   local hospitals.  ’ ’    ’ ’   Pulse markets itself as ”Orlando’’s premier gay nightclub.” It was   Latin night at the club, according to its Facebook page. ’ ’The   news agency, Amaq News. ..’