’  ’ ”   It’s been quite a day for Microsoft. ” ’   First, the bombshell announcement that Microsoft is . Then,    presenting the latest on the convergence between the Xbox One   console and the Windows 10 operating system. ’ ’   This is going to sound weird, but  then the LinkedIn deal and   the Xbox presentation tell you everything you need to know about   the modern Microsoft of 2016. ’ ’   Bear with me. ’ ’   Under CEO Satya Nadella, Microsoft has expressed a singular   vision for a world where your apps and data follow you around   from device to device so you can do what you want on your   computer, phone, or tablet. ’ ”   LinkedIn now has a big part to play in that future. A    apps, like  that know where you are, what   device you’re using, and who you’re working with. ” ’  ’ ’   Which is to say, LinkedIn has the potential to provide Microsoft   Office with a kind of glue, as a single identity for tracking   your work and your projects across every Office app on every   device. ’ ”   If you make a change in one app, or work with a coworker on a key   project, then that relationship will be maintained across the   whole Microsoft Office universe. That’s a big boon to Nadella’s   vision of apps that go beyond the traditional Office suite. ” ’   The Xbox business is actually starting to look at a similar   philosophy. Microsoft is working to knock down the differences   between playing a game on a Windows 10 PC or an Xbox One console,   so you can play whichever game you want on whichever screen you   want. ’ ’   Today, Microsoft announced  a program that lets you buy a game once and   own it on Windows 10 and Xbox One. If you save your game on an   Xbox, then you can pick it up again on a PC, and vice versa. The   same way LinkedIn and Office can keep your professional   relationships synced up, Xbox can keep you playing everywhere. ’ ’  ’ ”   So they’re manifesting in totally different ways. But Microsoft’s   master plan of having one seamless experience with all of your   data following you from device to device is pretty consistent.   And it’s all falling into place. ” ”   Of course, this master plan carries its fair share of dangers.   LinkedIn’s data may be valuable to Microsoft, but $26 billion is   steep, no matter how you slice it. And it remains to be seen if   . ” ”   Still, you can’t accuse Microsoft of lacking ambition. There are   worse things. ” ”It’s been quite a day for Microsoft. First, the. ..”