’  ’ ’   An Iraq War veteran skewered Donald Trump on Wednesday after the   presumptive Republican presidential nominee made a confusing   statement about soldiers stealing millions in cash while serving   abroad. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ that Trump appeared to be referring to known   examples of American soldiers taking portions of cash intended   for reconstruction projects in Iraq, or otherwise engaging in   theft or bribery. ’ ’   The publication cited a 2015 report by the Center for Public   Integrity, a nonpartisan group, which wrote that ”at least 115   enlisted personnel and military officers [were] convicted since   2005 of committing theft, bribery, and   crimes   valued at $52 million during their deployments in Afghanistan and   Iraq.” ’ ’   Hope Hicks, the Trump campaign communications director, said that   Trump was not referring to US soldiers in the comments. ’ ’   ”Mr. Trump was referring to Iraqi soldiers,” she  in an email. ’ ”   Reiff, who now works as a music writer, didn’t buy Hicks’ answer. ” ’   ”For this reason, and many more, he’’s proven that he’’s someone   with neither the temperament, nor the character, to be Commander   in Chief,” he tweeted. ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tJust a small warning, I’m about to go on a bit of a rant. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI rarely discuss politics on this platform, but yesterday, the Republican nominee for President said something that compels me to speak out. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI spent five years, from   as a Sergeant in the U. S. Army. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhen I deployed to Iraq in 2009 I was made Non Commissioned Officer in Charge of Foreign Claims for the entirety of Western Baghdad. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThat’s an area that covers roughly 5 million people. I was 21 years old and will admit, very much in over my head. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMy job for a whole year was to assess damage to Iraqi citizen’s property, and person and compensate them monetarily. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tSo if a helicopter dropped a flare and burned a kid, or an MRAP ran into a generator or someone’s goat while on patrol. ..’t’t” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tOr we killed someone in the line of fire, it was my job to make it right. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAffected citizens would make the drive from as far as Lebanon on a weekly basis to see if their claims had been adjudicated. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe job was tough, almost impossible, but it was the just thing to do and helped build a bridge of trust between us and the citizenry. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI basically spent a year of my life in an aluminum trailer, away from my friends and family enduring mortar attacks nearly every night. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThere was always more to do, and the stack of files and faces never dwindled. I got half a day off every two weeks. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI had to look widows and orphans in the eye as tears ran down their cheeks telling me through an interpreter their heartbreaking stories. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tEvery mission out into the city carried with it tremendous risk, but we had a job to do, and forcibly put that out of our minds. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIn the course of my job, I was entrusted with a lot of taxpayer money, all in American cash. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAs a result, we instantly became a high value target for insurgents who wanted to relieve us of said cash at one of our weekly gatherings. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tYesterday,  a man who never served in any capacity said this about me and my brethren that served in Iraq. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t“How about bringing baskets of money  —   millions and millions of dollars  —   and handing it out? ”’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t”I want to know who were the soldiers that had that job, because I think they’re living very well right now. ”  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI am living well right now   some student loan debt aside   but not because I pocketed the   taxpayer money that I was entrusted. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIn my time overseas, the procedures that were put in place to prevent that from happening were frustratingly thorough. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe idea that Trump would call out the integrity of those who answered the call of service and deployed to a war zone is repellant. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFor this reason, and many more, he’s proven that he’s someone with neither the temperament, nor the character, to be Commander in Chief. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tDon’t believe him when he says he’s for Veterans. It’s lip service entirely. ’t’t” ’An Iraq War veteran skewered Donald Trump. ..’