’  ’ ’   Many startup CEOs try to sweep bad news under the rug. ’ ’   I know this firsthand having been laid off on a random Monday   afternoon when the company I worked at abruptly shut down. ’ ”   But on Thursday, Buffer’s CEO, Joel Gascoigne, transparently laid   out what happened to his company and how it got to the place   where it needed to cut 11% of its staff, or a total of 10 team   members. ” ’   Instead of trying to dodge the issue,  on how to be transparent and   acknowledge mistakes that he made as a leader. ’ ’   ”It’’s the result of the biggest mistake I’’ve made in my career so   far. Even worse, this wasn’’t the result of a market   was   entirely ” the CEO wrote. ’ ’’ ”   Gascoigne described what happened to Buffer as moving into a   house that it couldn’t afford. The San   company,   which makes   management tools, had been able to   previously curb its burn rate, or how much money a startup   spends, by boosting revenue through new products. ” ’   But the company   growing from 34 to 94 people in a   year. There was also a lack of accountability, overaggressive   growth choices, and not enough scrutiny of its financial model   until it was too late. ’ ”   Buffer has a history of being transparent   it’s the startup     for . Still, Gascoigne   acknowledged that it didn’t live up to it in the end since the   realization that the company was spending more money than it was   taking in would come as a surprise to most. ” ’   ”I don’’t feel that we fully lived up to our value of   transparency, specifically to share early in order to avoid a big   revelation later,” Gascoigne said. ”As a result, our team was   understandably surprised by the changes we’’ve made, especially   the loss of teammates and friends.” ’ ’   Buffer had to account for more than just a smaller headcount.   Gascoigne and his cofounder took a salary cut and the company cut   perks   like retreats and wellness credits   and laid it all out: ’ ’   While many startups are facing   measures, whether it   was a case of not keeping close track of finances or failing to   find funding, few have  to be an example to others. ’ ”   Read Gascoigne’s . ” ’Many startup CEOs try to sweep bad news under. ..’