’  ’ ’   Visium Asset Management,  has imploded in the   .  ’ ”   The fund told investors of its plan to close in a letter Friday.   It’s the most   shutdown since authorities forced   Steve Cohen’s controversial SAC Capital to close in 2013.    A slew of factors   from a brewing   scandal to a   contentious investment by Visium’s founder that rankled investors   and staffers alike   led to Visium’s demise.    On top of all of that, Visium’s flagship fund had been reporting   dismal performance.  ” ’   Just days before Visium announced the shut down, one of its top   portfolio managers   Sanjay Valvani   . He is accused of   using insider information from a Food and Drug Administration   Official to place trades on drug companies ahead of key FDA   decisions  ’ ’  ’ ’it managed about $7. 8 billion firmwide at the start of the   year, a 20% increase from the year before, according to Hedge   Fund Intelligence.  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Meanwhile, rumors about federal investigations into potential   wrongdoing have been swirling for some time. That influenced   Steve Cohen, who was banned from managing other investors’ money   after his own firm’s insider trading scandal, to  people familiar with the matter told Business   Insider. Authorities are lifting the ban on Cohen from managing   outside money in 2018.  ” ’   Then there are the departures and investor redemptions. ’ ’   Many staffers recently left and morale had dropped, according to   several recruiters and former staffers.   ’ ’  ’ ’   ”If you got out early, you were lucky,” one recent Visium   departee, who declined to be named, told Business Insider. ”And   if you’’re still there, it’’s far more difficult to land somewhere   else.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Even before the latest problems, investors had been rankled by a   trade that Gottlieb placed on his own behalf, in 2014, two former   employees of the fund said.    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s not clear precisely what price Visium and Gottlieb paid, but   if they acquired the shares the day before the news of the drug’s   efficacy broke, by the end of January 10 the Visium fund’s   profits could have reached $364 million, while Gottlieb’s   personal profits would have been about $9. 6 million.  ” ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Visium Asset Management, a multibillion dollar. ..’