’  ’ ’   When former musician Joel Young needed a   for a video   project at church in 2013, he hired a professional. ’ ’   ”I thought, this is pretty cool,” he tells Business Insider.   ”This lady does these for $5 to $10 apiece   and my wife said,   ’’Well you’’ve got a recording mic. You know how to do this stuff.   Why don’’t you do it and make extra money? ’’” ’ ’   Young, who was working as a minister at the time and trying to   pay off $50, 000 worth of medical bills,   debt, and a   car loan, did just that. ’ ’   He turned to  a site   that lets people pay others for tasks outside their expertise,   and created    for his   services. ’ ’   Within one month, he made $400 doing   gigs for $5 each. ’ ’   ”After my first month, I started to level up, and the way that   you advertise your services on Fiverr is by putting a video on   your page,” the father of two explains. ”I then had people who   saw my video and said, ’’I don’’t want a  . I want you to   make a video for me,’’ and I created a whole new gig just for   videos.” ’ ”   Most of the videos he creates are to advertise a product or   service for individuals, but he’s also done training videos for   big companies like BJ’s, Home Depot, and the NCAA. ” ’  ’ ’   Over the course of one year, he made $34, 000 shooting videos   in   the corner of his bedroom, with an iPhone and IKEA lamp. ”That   was all I had,” he says. ”I had people emailing me asking what   kind of equipment I use. It wasn’’t until I’’d been doing it for   about a year when I went out and upgraded my camera gear.” ’ ’   After 18 months, he and his wife were completely  . ”I   basically made enough money with my   job for us to run   our house, so there wasn’’t much left over,” he explains. ”We cut   our spending a little bit, but it was all freelancing that paid   off the debt.” ’ ’   What started as a solution to climb out of debt evolved into a   lucrative career. It was the summer of 2014 when he realized he   was making more money freelancing than he had been as a minister,   and his side business officially took over as his   job. ’ ’   ”I think what separates me from others is my high quality of   work, my great communication, and my reliability,” he says. ”You   need to be willing to go the extra mile to serve your customers.   Never   and always exceed expectations. More than   half of all my clients buy from me again at some point because   they know they will get the same great quality every time.” ’ ’   Today,    Young works about 10 hours a day, six days a   week, earning $18, 000 to $23, 000 a month doing     testimonial videos, and . His wife has also started helping   with the business to lighten the load. ’ ’  ’ ’   Besides the consistent revenue, a major perk of freelancing is   being able to set his own schedule and spend more time with   family, he says: ”I have the freedom to say, ’’OK, I’’m done with   work for the rest of the afternoon and I’’ll get another couple of   hours in after my kids go to sleep. ’’ It’’s a way for me to be able   to do things like coach my kids’’ baseball team and be here when   they wake up in the morning and go to sleep.” ’ ’   Young’’s newfound financial freedom has also opened up   opportunities that weren’’t possible before: ”We had always talked   about adopting a child, but we could never do it because an   adoption costs $30, 000 or $40, 000   and that’’s on the low end. We   now have the money to do that and are on the verge of being   placed in the system to be matched with a kid.” ’ ’   What does he advise people who want to follow a similar career   path? ’ ’   ”Do what you already know what to do,” he says. ”The reality is,   you don’’t have to do something so unique that no one else is   doing. There are always going to be a thousand other people doing   exactly what you’’re doing   you just have to differentiate   yourself by the way you serve people, by the quality of your   service, and your level of communication.” ’ ”   Also, you don’t need money to make money, he says: ” ’When former musician Joel Young needed a. ..’