’  ’ ’   Ever since that  people seem to   have gotten really into introversion. ’ ’   Do a quick Google of ”only introverts will understand” if you   need a sampling. ’ ’   Somehow, it seems like we’’ve ended up with stereotypes where   introverts order pizza in bed and think deep important thoughts   while extroverts prance around them setting things on fire and   begging them to come out for a drink. I exaggerate, but  article in The Telegraph   goes as far as saying that in ”a world without introverts   …       there’’d be no art.” ’ ”   Sure, it’s worth noting that everyone isn’t equally enthusiastic   about social interaction, but as a personality trait, which way   you’re verted is not quite as indicative of who you are and how   you act as some seem to think. Enjoying reading books and   spending time alone does not make you an introvert any more than   enjoying mashed potatoes makes you a foodie. ” ”   And yet it seems that introversion is continually used as an   explanation for all kinds of things that in studies, it’s not   actually associated   being sensitive or imaginative. You   can be both sensitive and introverted, but the research would say   those are different traits. ” ’   The   Mallory Ortberg perhaps said it best in her   post at The Toast titled ”.” ’ ’  ’ ’ pokes another hole in the classic   conception of the   after spending time with other   people, they need time to recharge, alone, and that this is what   extroverts just don’’t understand. As the culprit in Ortberg’’s   post put it, ”I shouldn’’t have killed them, but at the same time,   it’’s not wrong for me to need space to reflect and recharge   before I’’m ready to interact with people.” ’ ’   The study tracked 48 students at Finnish universities, who   reported via phone survey on their behavior and feelings five   times a day for 12 days. After the 12 days passed, they took a   personality test which measures what psychology calls the Big   Five personality traits: neuroticism, openness, agreeableness,   conscientiousness, and extroversion. ’ ’   Extroverted behavior, the researchers found, made people feel   happier and less tired in the moment, but they were consistently   more fatigued three hours later. This happened regardless of   whether they scored as extroverted or introverted on the   personality test, suggesting that everyone, regardless of their   vert, needs some time to recharge after socializing. (People also   needed time to recharge three hours after conscientious     like studying or   makes sense, since     takes a lot of energy.) ’ ’   ”For those who do feel depleted after social interaction   …     it may   be pleasant to learn that such a reaction is quite normal (and   does not imply that one is an introvert or that one is lazy),”   the study reads. ’ ’  ’ ”   The tightrope walk of personality research is that while   personality traits do predict behavior, it’s also true that   people  a lot of the time. A normally   agreeable person may find themselves snippy and short on patience   around that one person they just can’t stand. Extroverts may be   more reserved at work than at a party, and introverts may have a   certain social group in which they do like being the   center of attention. ” ”   As Scott Barry Kaufman  it’s not   just a tendency to be social that identifies an  ’s   being motivated to obtain the reward of social attention.   (Introverts are less motivated by that.) So they tend to be more   enthusiastic and intense in their   that doesn’t   mean they don’t still get tuckered out. ” ”   This is a small study, so it’s hardly the final word on the   matter, but it’s in line with  that shows the positive   consequences of behaving in an extroverted way  whether the person scores one   way or the other on a personality test. (Those studies found that   extroverted behavior consistently improved the mood of both   introverts and extroverts, but didn’t look at how tired it made   them after.) ” ’   So no one behaves like a stereotypical introvert or extrovert all   the time. And a lot of the characteristics that are popularly   ascribed to introverts may be the result of other traits, or as   this study suggests, just a normal part of being human. Your vert   is not your destiny, just a piece of a complex personality   puzzle. ’ ’Ever since that book about the power of. ..’