’  ’ ’   The day after Donald Trump fired his campaign manager, the first   signs of a major shift in strategy started to emerge. ’ ’   While Hillary Clinton was speaking in Ohio, the Trump campaign   blasted out emails with responses to her barbs. ’ ’   The presumptive Republican nominee for president deployed the     messages from several platforms. He   or his   campaign   tweeted, posted a video on Instagram, and sent emails   while Clinton was still onstage speaking. ’ ”   This type of rapid response is a common tactic of Clinton’s   campaign. But until now, the media hasn’t seen anything on a   similar scale from Trump. ” ”   In her speech on Tuesday, Clinton criticized Trump’s business   record and challenged his plan for the US economy. ” ’   ”He’’s written a lot of books about business,” Clinton said. ”They   all seem to end at Chapter 11.” ’ ’   During the speech, the Trump campaign sent out emails with   subject lines like ”The Catastrophic Economic Record Under     Policies” and ”Trump Economic Plan Will Create   Millions Of Jobs & Trillions In New Wealth.” ’ ”   Trump also sent out a series of tweets, although it’s unclear if   he was personally crafting the messages or if his campaign was   tweeting from his account: ” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tHillary says this election is about judgment.  She’s right.  Her judgement has killed thousands, unleashed ISIS and wrecked the economy. ’t’t” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tHillary Clinton surged the trade deficit with China 40% asSecretary of State, costing Americans millions of jobs. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tHow can Hillary run the economy when she can’t even send emails without putting entire nation at risk? ’t’t” ’   The tweets seemed less    than usual and were missing   Trump’’s typical monikers for his rivals. He often refers to   Clinton as ”Crooked Hillary” in his tweets. ’ ”   Trump’s campaign also sent out its first fundraising email on   Tuesday amid reports that Trump was falling far behind Clinton in   raising money. ” ’   A recent Federal Elections Commission filing . Clinton, in comparison, had $42. 5 million. ’ ”   Up until now, analysts have often observed that Trump hasn’t run   a traditional campaign operation. He often boasted about     his campaign during the Republican primaries, he’s   relied more on free media appearances and rallies than he has on   television ads, and he employs far fewer people than Clinton. ” ’   But Trump has been falling behind in the polls as the election   cycle shifts from the primaries to the general. And now the   pressure is on for Trump to prove that he can compete against an   establishment candidate like Clinton. ’ ’   In his first step toward a new direction, Trump fired his   campaign manager Corey Lewandowski on Monday. ’ ”   Lewandowski was reportedly a polarizing figure within the   campaign, but Trump had stuck by him even after he was charged   with battery for grabbing a reporter at a campaign event. Trump   also insisted on keeping Lewandowski on even after he appointed   Paul Manafort, a more experienced political operative, to be the   campaign’s chief strategist. ” ’   But Trump’’s loyalty to Lewandowski came to an end as he  that he would start running a ”different kind of   campaign”   one that seems more professional. ’ ’   Lewandowski had a reputation for his temper and lack of   experience on the national political stage. He was also known for   saying ”Let Trump be Trump,” a   motto that could   prove dangerous for a candidate who’’s facing a more polished   competitor in a general election. ’ ’   ”We ran a small, beautiful,   campaign. It worked very   well in the primaries,” Trump said on Fox News’’ ”The O’’Reilly   Factor.” ”But we’’re going to go a little bit of a different route   from this point forward.” ’ ’The day after Donald Trump fired his campaign. ..’