’  ’ ’   Next week, Rodrigo Duterte will be sworn is as the 16th president   of the Philippines, and the whole world will get a lot more   dangerous. ’ ’   ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We have this pact with the West, but I want everybody to know   that we will be charting a course of our own,” he said,  ”It will not be dependent on   America. And it will be a line that is not intended to please   anybody but the Filipino interest.” ’ ’   He later  the US ambassador to the Philippines,   Philip Goldberg, ”Are you with us?” ’ ’  ’ ’   Goldberg said that the US would back the Philippines only in the   event of a Chinese attack. ’ ”   That didn’t seem to be the response Duterte was looking for, as   he later said that he would send a representative to China to   talk. ” ’  ’ ’   That said, China isn’’t in the mood for ”offers” right now. ’ ”   Duterte’s ascension to power is happening at a delicate time in   the relationship between the two countries. ” ”   The outgoing president of the Philippines filed an arbitration   under the  over China’s actions in the waters.  either way China is upset about that, to   say the least. ” ’   From Chinese   outlet  ’ ’   Yes, people. Slander. Again, this should indicate that China is   not in a negotiating mood. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The aforementioned territorial claims from Vietnam, Malaysia,   Brunei, the Philippines, Taiwan, and China make the South China   Sea one of the most disputed places on the planet. ’ ’  ’ ’   These waters have proven oil reserves of 7 billion barrels, and   an estimated 900 trillion cubic feet of natural gas,   an author and the chief geopolitical analyst for   Stratfor. ’ ’  ’ ’   And if Chinese calculations are correct, then the South China Sea   will ultimately yield 130 billion barrels of oil, which is second   only to Saudi Arabia, making the South China Sea ”the second   Persian Gulf.” ’ ’  ’ ’consolidated coupled with  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   And while the consensus among experts is that The Hague’s ruling   will go largely against Beijing, the South China Sea remains in a   dangerous limbo. ” ’Next week, Rodrigo Duterte will be sworn is as. ..’