’  ’ ’  Warning: Major Spoilers ahead for ”Game of Thrones,”   including speculation of future events.   ’ ’   ”A Song of Ice and Fire”     especially since author George R. R. Martin has yet to publish the   final two books, leaving many storylines   and up for   interpretation. But one fan theory is so widely believed by the   fandom that it may as well be canon. The theory is known as   ”” and centers on the question of Jon Snow’’s true   parentage.  ’ ’   According to a majority of the fan base, Jon is not the bastard   son of Ned Stark, but the son of Rhaegar Targaryen and Lyanna   Stark.  ’ ’   If true, that could make Jon the rightful heir to the Iron   Throne, and the rare descendant of two very powerful houses.     and warging abilities are two of the most magical   powers a human can possess in the world of ”Game of Thrones,” and   this would mean Jon has potential for both. ’ ’   A source close to HBO confirmed with Tech Insider that  which means the finale episode will contain the   big reveal. ’ ”   If you’re not familiar with the popular theory, here’s what you   need to know. ” ’  ’ ’   ”R + L = J” is one of the oldest fan theories, starting on as far   back as 1998, . That means fans have been waiting   for nearly two decades for confirmation on this idea. The actual   theory title is (obviously) a simplified version of Rhaegar +   Lyanna = Jon, but by using first initials only people on forums   like  and  are able to title their theory discussions without   giving away spoilers to those unaware of the idea.  ’ ”   So the theory itself: In the timeline of Westeros history, we   have to go back to 17 years before the events in season one. Ned   Stark and Robert Baratheon were best friends, and Robert was   betrothed to Ned’s younger sister, Lyanna.  ” ’   The king at the time was Aerys Targaryen, known as the Mad King.   Aerys had three children: Rhaegar, Viserys, and Daenerys. Prince   Rhaegar, the eldest, was in line to inherit the Iron Throne. He   was married to Elia Martell, the sister of Oberyn Martell.  ’ ’   Suddenly, Lyanna and Rhaegar both disappear. When Lyanna’’s father   and older brother accuse the Mad King and Prince Rhaegar of   kidnapping her, a war breaks out. Robert and Ned lead the charge   in rebellion against the Targaryens. The war ended when Tywin   Lannister sacked King’’s Landing and Jaime Lannister killed King   Aerys, earning himself the nickname ”Kingslayer.” ’ ”   Robert Baratheon killed Prince Rhaegar at the Battle of the   Trident. On orders from Robert and Tywin Lannister, Rhaegar’s   wife Elia was murdered, along with her two children. Rhaegar’s   younger siblings, Daenerys and Viserys fled Westeros. ” ’  ’ ”   Ned, who married Catelyn before leaving to fight in Robert’s war,   found Lyanna dead in a place called the Tower of Joy. He returned   home with a baby boy named Jon, admitting to his wife that he had   an affair while at war. Ned raised the child in Winterfell,   giving him the last name Snow to point out his bastard origin. ” ’   In the season one finale, Bran and Osha are in the crypts, also   looking at Lyanna’’s grave. He tells the   of the   story to Osha: ”King Robert was supposed to marry her, but   Rhaegar Targaryen kidnapped her. Robert started a war to win her   back,” Bran says. ”He killed Rhaegar, but she died anyways.” As   far as Bran (and the rest of Westeros) knows, Rhaegar kidnapped   Lyanna against her will, and Lyanna somehow died as a result.  ’ ’   But is that what really happened? Let’’s   to the   events unfolding ”Game of Thrones,” and see if the ”R + L = J”   theory has any weight. ’ ’  ’ ’   Lord Eddard Stark is probably the most honorable man in Westeros.   Nearly everyone knows it, and some   like Littlefinger   take   advantage of it. Throughout the series, he is referred to as   loyal, dutiful, and highly respected. ’ ’   So why would a man as noble as Ned break his solemn marriage vow?   Some characters on the show wonder the same. ’ ”   In season two, Jaime taunts Catelyn Stark about Ned’s infidelity   while being held captive. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   This is the first time in the show a character outright questions   whether Ned is really Jon’’s father. For those who believe in ”R +   L = J,” Stannis’’ line was a huge hint toward some confirmation. ’ ’   As well, Ned was especially secretive about the details of his   affair, even from his good friend Robert. ’ ’  ’ ’   In a   episode, Robert and Ned reminisce on the good ol’’   days of their youth, discussing their sexual conquests. ”Yours   was, uh, Meryl? Your bastard’’s mother?” Robert tries to guess,   referring to Jon. Ned’’s face looks grim. ”Wylla,” he replies. No   other details are given. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   In the ninth episode of season one, Ned Stark confesses to a   treason he knows he didn’t commit, and is executed as a result.   Varys convinced him to lie and name Joffrey   the bastard son of   Cersei and Jaime Lannister   as the true king. Why? Because   Sansa’s safety depends on it. Ned knows serious harm will come to   her if he continues trying to unseat the Lannisters from power.  ” ’   Ned values the lives of his children above his own honor and   glory. It makes sense that he would allow the world to believe   that he was once an unfaithful husband if it meant protecting his   family. And if Jon truly were the son of Rhaegar Targaryen, he   would definitely be in danger   especially from his good buddy   Robert Baratheon. ’ ’  ’ ’Robert would not have been kind to   baby Jon. He loved Lyanna fiercely. How would he react if he   found out that she had a child with Rhaegar? Probably not too   kindly since that child, half Stark and half Targaryen, would   have a claim to the throne Robert sat in.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Robert made it clear he didn’’t have much love for the remaining   Targaryens in season one. Multiple times he expresses his desire   to murder Daenerys. Though Ned explains she is ”little more than   a child,” it all but falls on deaf ears.    ’ ’  ’ ”   Early on, book readers and show watchers are led to believe the   Targaryen family is ruthless and (sometimes) insane. We know the   Mad King burned people alive out of paranoia, and Daenerys’ older   brother, Viserys, is portrayed as having unsavory anger issues.   With Robert’s clear distaste for Rhaegar, and hearing he   kidnapped Lyanna, it makes sense people would assume the   Targaryen prince was not a good man. ” ’   As both the show and book progress, we begin   hearing more about the type of person Rhaegar Targaryen was. Ser   Barristan Selmy tells Daenerys in season three he was the ”finest   man I ever met.” ’ ’   Ser Barristan is considered one of the greatest and most   honorable knights in Westeros. If he believed Rhaegar was a great   man, viewers should consider that high praise. In the same scene,   Barristan told Daenerys about the rebellion, and the final battle   on the Trident. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   In season five, Ser Barristan tells Daenerys even more   heartwarming stories about what a wonderful man Rhaegar was.   ” ’ ’  ’ ”   Based on these anecdotes, Rhaegar doesn’t sound like a monstrous   man who would kidnap a woman for no reason.  ” ”   In season four, Oberyn Martell also gives Rhaegar’s character   more depth when he tells Tyrion a story about visiting King’s   Landing. Remember, Oberyn was the brother of Rhaegar’s wife,   Elia. According to Oberyn, Rhaegar simply had an affair with   Lyanna. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Worth noting is that this scene takes place in the same episode   when Stannis Baratheon questions Jon’s parentage, and when   Barristan tells Daenerys about Rhaegar’s love for singing. The   showrunners really seem to want the average viewer to question   Sansa’s assumptions about Rhaegar. ” ’   Context clues about individual characters aside, the ”Game of   Thrones” show runners have also slipped in a few symbolic   references to Jon’’s true parentage.  ’ ”   For one, there’s a vision Daenerys had at the end of season two.   She walks through the throne room in King’s Landing, which is   filled with snow. You know, like Jon Snow? It could just mean   winter is coming, but we love the potential double meaning. ” ’ ’ ”   But the kicker is when she walks right out of the throne room and   out from underneath the Wall   where Jon Snow lives at Castle   Black. Daenerys has never seen the great ice wall, and doesn’t   know who Jon Snow is but her vision seems to be drawing her in   his direction. ” ’   Another fun symbolic moment happened in season five when Maester   Aemon is talking to Sam about Daenerys. Aemon is a Targaryen   himself, Daenerys’’ uncle. ”A Targaryen alone in the world   …     it’’s   a terrible thing,” he says. ’ ’  ’ ’   And who walks in at that very moment? Jon Snow. Not only may he   be   but he is also practically alone in the world   with no family left that he knows of. ’ ’   Ned also uses some tricky wordplay when discussing Jon’’s mother   with him early in the series. ”You may not have my name, but you   have my blood,” he says. Notice how he intentionally avoided the   word son. But he wasn’’t lying: the blood of Lyanna Stark may run   through Jon’’s veins.  ’ ’  ’ ’   We know Prince Rhaegar and Lyanna disappeared together, starting   a war as a result. Though many believe he kidnapped Lyanna,   others seem to think it was an actual love affair. Based on   character clues from the men involved, it would have been highly   unusual for Rhaegar to spark a war over a violent kidnapping, and   even more unlikely that Ned broke his marriage vows and fathered   a bastard.  ’ ”   Instead, it is likely that Rhaegar and Lyanna were in love and   had a child together. And by turning to the books for extra   proof, Jon’s parentage becomes pretty clear. ” ’   Ned was the one who found Lyanna after the battle was over. In   the first book, ”A Game of Thrones,” Ned has a     flashback to a place called the Tower of Joy. Inside the tower,   he finds Lyanna in a ”bed of blood,” and she repeatedly tells him   ”Promise me, Ned, promise me.” Fans believe the bloody bed means   she died as result of childbirth.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Well, first off, it makes him the literal ”Song of Ice and Fire,”   because of his ties to the northern Starks and the     Targaryens. This also means he is technically Daenerys’’ nephew.   In terms of claims to the Iron Throne, it would depend upon   whether or not Rhaegar actually married Lyanna, making   Jon a legitimate royal child.  ’ ”   Rhaegar was already married to Elia Martell, but Targaryens have   a history of taking multiple wives, so it is possible. If that’s   what happened, Jon’s claim to the Iron Throne is technically   stronger than Daenerys’ claim. He’s the direct male descendant of   the Mad King, whereas she is the sister of the former prince. ” ”   Fans may be in for a huge surprise when Jon’s true parents are   revealed in the   finale via a flashback to Ned at his   sister’s deathbed. We’ve already seen  through Bran’s   flashbacks earlier in the season. The finale episode will likely   show Ned finally entering the tower, and seeing Lyanna with baby   Jon Snow. ” ’   The ”Game of Thrones”   finale airs on Sunday, June 26   at 9 p. m. EST. All hopes are hanging on Bran to reveal the truth   behind ”R + L = J”   a theory confirmation that is decades in the   making.   ’ ’Warning: Major Spoilers ahead for ”Game of. ..’