’  ’ ’   Corey Lewandowski will be a fierce surrogate on CNN for Donald   Trump   if his first appearances are any indicator. ’ ”   During a   interview on the network, Trump’s former   campaign manager exchanged rhetorical barbs with former New York   City Council Speaker Christine Quinn over the United Kingdom’s   vote last week to leave the European Union. Lewandowski said   Hillary Clinton’s opposition to the   Brexit demonstrated   that the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee   fundamentally misread the desires of the UK electorate. ” ’   ”This is Hillary Clinton, who is the secretary of state, who says   she has a better understanding of world political affairs than   anybody else, and she couldn’’t see this vote coming?” Lewandowski   said. ’ ’   ”This is a person who prides herself on international affairs and   couldn’’t understand what was actually taking place? It truly   calls into question her ability to understand what’’s going on in   other geopolitical areas around the world.” ’ ’   Quinn countered that leaders should promote outcomes that benefit   constituents, rather than simply identify the politically popular   position. ’ ’’ ’   ”Elected officials are supposed to be leaders, not people who put   their finger in the air and say what they believe voters are   gonna say,” Quinn said. ”And what have we not heard from Donald   Trump? What would his plan be if he was president to save   American 401( k)s? We haven’’t heard that because that’’s not his   concern.” ’ ”   But Lewandowski didn’t back off his attacks, saying that Clinton   and President Barack Obama were attempting to unfairly influence   British voters. ” ’   ”He didn’’t weigh in like Hillary Clinton did, like Barack Obama   did, saying that, ’’You can’’t do this,’’” Lewandowski said. ’ ’   ”Because he didn’’t know what it was,” Quinn interjected, alluding   to a Hollywood Reporter article indicating that Trump wasn’’t   familiar with the term ”Brexit,” the shorthand description for   the British exit from the EU. ’ ’   ”He said, ’’You can do it because you decide on your own what the   right thing to do is,’’” Lewandowski said. ”And Hillary Clinton   had this so wrong that the people rejected her.” ’ ”   While just a week ago Trump’s children  the two side’s   arguments were virtually identical on Monday’s morning shows. ” ’   Appearing on ”Fox and Friends” on Monday, Eric Trump said it was   neither Clinton nor Obama’’s business to weigh in on the vote at   all. ’ ’   ”She’’s supposed to be have her finger on the pulse of what’’s   going on, and once again she got it wrong,” Trump said of   Clinton. ’ ’   He added: ”She’’s always gotten the foreign policy of our country   wrong. Why did she even need to opine on this issue?” ’ ’   The Clinton campaign has maintained that the vote has     economic consequences for the US. ’ ”   Addressing a conference of mayors in Indianapolis on Sunday,   Clinton slammed Trump’s response to the Brexit, claiming that the   results of the vote took a $100 billion toll on American   retirement savings accounts on Friday. ” ’   ”We are resilient, and we will bounce back from this and from all   of the other shocks that are in the system,” Clinton said. ”But   it is a reminder that what happens around the world has   consequences that can hit home quickly and affect our lives and   our livelihoods.” ’ ’   ”We need leaders like yourselves at the local and state and   federal level, who understand how to work with other leaders to   manage risks; who understand that bombastic comments in turbulent   times can actually cause more turbulence; and who put the   interests of the American people ahead of their personal business   interests.” ’