’  ’ ’   Here is what you need to know. ’ ’. Puerto Rico is   expected to miss its bond payments due on Friday. On Wednesday,   the    The default will come despite President Obama signing t ’ ”Bond yields are making record lows. Heavy   overnight buying pushed   US yields down to record   lows. The   yield touched 1. 378% and the   yield hit   2. 204% as money rushed into government debt amid further   speculation of more easing by the world’s biggest central banks.   Additionally, Japan’s   yield sank to a record low of     basis points and the UK’s   yield fell to its own     low of 78. 1 basis points. ” ”. China’s    ” ”. Consumer prices   in Japan fell 0. 4% in May, a bit faster than the 0. 3% decline   experienced in April. The May reading was the third straight   monthly decline, and it marked the biggest   drop since   May 2013. Additionally, prices in Tokyo fell 0. 5% matching the   previous month’s decline. The inability to lift pricing pressure   has many expecting that the Bank of Japan will increase its   already massive stimulus program at its next meeting on July 16.   The Japanese yen is stronger by 0. 5% at 102. 69 per dollar. ” ’’ ’. HSBC and Barclays say they will keep their   headquarters in the UK despite the outcome of Brexit vote. The   Financial Times reports that HSBC chairman Doug Flint told   attendees at an event on Thursday that moving the company’’s   headquarters wasn’’t subject to a review. Likewise, Barclays CEO   Jes Staley told the BBC that Barclays would stay ”anchored in   Great Britain.” ’ ’.   Federal authorities are looking into the connection between   Tesla’’s Autopilot system and a fatal crash. Tesla has confirmed   that its Autopilot system was active during a fatal crash that   took place on May 7 in Williston, Florida. In an emailed   statement to Business Insider, National Highway Traffic Safety   Administration spokesman Bryan Thomas wrote, ” ’ ’. Nike   cofounder and chairman of the board Phil Knight says he plans to   step down at some point during 2016, the AP reports. Knight   reportedly wants Nike president and CEO Mark Parker to slide into   the role of chairman upon his own departure. Knight has been a   director for Nike since 1968, the AP says. ’ ”. People   familiar with the matter told The Wall Street Journal that Apple   is in talks to buy rap mogul Jay Z’s   service. The   amount of money was not revealed. An acquisition would help Apple   further penetrate the   business, as Tidal has a   catalog of 40 million songs and a subscription base of 4. 2   million users, according to The Journal. Jay Z purchased Tidal   back in March 2015 for $56 million. ” ”Stock markets around the world are mostly   higher. Japan’s Nikkei (+0. 7%) led the advance in Asia   and Britain’s FTSE (+0. 3%) paces the gains in Europe. S&P 500   futures are down 5. 25 points at 2, 085. 00. ” ’US economic data flows. Markit US manufacturing   PMI will be released at 9:45 a. m. ET, while both ISM   manufacturing and construction spending will cross the wires at   10 a. m. ET. US auto sales will be released throughout the day. ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to 10 Things Before the Opening Bell and never miss an update!’