’  ’ ”   Southeast Asia’s   bank, United Overseas Bank, has   stopped funding mortgages for UK properties, one of the first   examples of investment in Britain drying up in after the British   vote to leave the European Union. ” ’ a representative for the Singapore lender as   saying: ”As the aftermath of the UK referendum is still unfolding   and given the uncertainties, we need to ensure our customers are   cautious with their London property investments.” ’ ’   It is highly unusual for an international bank to put this kind   of blanket ban on a particular market or type of business and   signals just how serious the   Brexit vote is seen   overseas. ’ ”   The Remain campaign argued before last week’s referendum on the   UK’s EU membership that a Leave vote could cause investment in   Britain to shrink. This is a concrete example of that  —   money   sitting in a Singaporean bank that could have ended up London’s   property market is now staying put. ” ”   While this will come as a blow to estate agents in the UK   capital’s most exclusive postcodes, for ordinary people this   drying up of investment could actually be seen as a good thing. ” ’’ ’   Many political commentators have argued that the Brexit vote was   less a vote against the EU specifically and more  from people who feel   let down and left behind by a system that only really caters to   the rich and educated. ’ ’   Most of this anger at the top is found in ”Middle England”  —   the   towns and rural areas across the country that aren’’t part of a   big city. But even London, a Remain stronghold, has its share of   anger at the system. ’ ’   House prices have  and   this has led to anger among the young who feel they are being   priced out of the market by wealthy foreign buyers who are   crowding the market.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Many young Londoners may feel that stopping Singapore investors   from buying up properties in the capital might not be such a bad   thing after all, and the wider country will most likely have   sympathy for their grievances. While it is an example of   ”investment” drying up, too many properties in London are being   bought as simply ”investments”  —   empty homes just sitting there   accruing value. ’