’  ’ ’     Have you ever unfriended someone on Facebook? Be honest. This     is a safe blog post.   ’ ’     You meanie! How could you do such a thing? It was a high school     friend, wasn’t it? She was blathering on about the evils of     affirmative action, wasn’t she?   ’ ’ from the     University of Colorado Denver investigate the psychology behind     unfriending, as well as the emotional response of the     unfriended. (Both draw on a Twitter survey of 1, 077 adults, so     take the results with a blue breadcrumb of skepticism: It could     be that Twitter folk use Facebook differently from other     people.)   ’ ’     The first, which probes the who and why of unfriending, found     that acquaintances from high school are most likely to get the     chop, followed by friends of friends, work friends, and common     interest friends. Study   Christopher Sibona speculates     in a press release that we often wish to sever online contact     with people who disagree with us about religion or politics     (long live ). Since we’re     most likely to diverge radically in perspective from those we     knew in childhood, before we began picking our friends based on     their bumper stickers, they get purged first.   ’ ’     While the majority of friends get flushed for the toxicity of     their posts, IRL shenanigans put our work friends uniquely at     risk. ”We found that people often unfriend   for their     actions in the real world rather than anything they post on     Facebook,” Sibona said.   ’ ’     The researchers use the euphemism “context collapse” to convey     the loss of friendship. (If you too are reminded of colony     collapse disorder, with its overtones of mystery and tragedy,     then let’s be friends on Facebook.) Study two examined the     emotional fallout from context collapse as enacted over the     social network and came up with four feelings: surprised,     bothered, amused, and sad.   ’ ’     As Science Daily explains, a quartet of factors     determine how unhappy an Unfriended friend is likely to be at     her demotion. If you two once shared a close bond, she’ll     probably be upset (and annoyed, because you are setting all     kinds of records in passive aggression, Unfriender). If she     monitors her Facebook friend list closely, that also enhances     the likelihood she’ll suffer. On the other hand, talking about     any relationship tensions before cutting the cord has a     mitigating effect, and if the Unfriended seeks comfort from her     remaining friends afterward —  you weren’t the last one,     right? —  the study suggests she’ll feel better.   ’ ’     What the researchers do not forthrightly state, but which I     will, is that unfriending someone is rarely warranted unless     you are trying to preserve your own mental health. As Sibona     allows, “the cost of maintaining [Facebook] friendships is     pretty low. If you make a conscious effort to push a button to     get rid of someone, that can hurt. ” Why do you want to hurt     people, Facebook user who takes Twitter surveys? (Have you no     loyalty? Is that why you can’t just pick a social network?) Why     must you banish your old buddies to walk amongst the     Unfriended, who must live in icy squalor     likeDivergent’s Factionless or the White Walkers from     Game of Thrones? Be kind. Be inclusive. Be humane.     Download  instead.   ’