’  ’ ”   Donald Trump has launched an   assault on America’s     agreements, hitting a peak in his antitrade message   that has swept him through the primary season and into the   general election. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’nother disaster done and pushed   by special interests who just want to rape our country.” ’ ’   ”A continuing rape of our country,” he said. ”That’’s what it is,   too. It’’s a harsh word. It’’s a rape of our country.” ’ ”   Trump’s tough stance on trade aligns him much closer with the   liberal left than it does with the traditional Republicans. As   Trump was blasting trade in a series of speeches and events this   week, Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont called for ensuring that TPP   doesn’t get a vote before Congress. Even  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   GOP Sen. Jeff Flake of Arizona, a fierce critic of Trump, told   Business Insider in an interview last week that he thought the   Manhattan billionaire’’s message of ”economic independence” was   simply a code for ”Fortress America.” ’ ’   ”Anybody who believes that we’’re going to grow economically and   deal with the huge fiscal problems that we have from shutting   ourselves off from the rest of the world is just certainly not   what I’’d call a Republican,” Flake said. ”I mean we believe in   free trade. We still do. Nafta is not a dirty word.” ’ ’   Trump, whose clothing line is produced overseas, has made an   antitrade argument that is ”easier to identify,” Flake said. He   added that focusing only on the image of people who have lost   their jobs because a factory closed or relocated oversimplified   the issue. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”But it’’s more difficult to identify on the net, companies that   have benefited from exports, cheaper goods,” he said. ”Not just   cheaper goods but cheaper inputs. So takes a lot longer than a     sound bite. It’’s incumbent on us who have     terms to be talking about this, and I mean in an election   campaign, you certainly prioritize what you play up and play   down, but boy, to play into the rhetoric and not challenge it   that is going on is inexcusable I think.” ’ ’   He said Congress needed to ”suck up” and ratify TPP because ”it   has to be done.” ’ ’   ”I do still think there are enough people that realize we’’ve got   to do it,” he said. ’ ’   Tony Fratto, the deputy press secretary in the second Bush   administration who is now a managing partner at Hamilton Place   Strategies, was heavily involved in the administration’’s     policy. He  in May that an ” ’ ’   ”It has to do with the application of technology,” he continued.   ”It’’s productivity and management and technology that is being   applied to a lot of complex manufacturing that is reducing the   need for workers. That is not going to change.” ’ ’   ”There are lots of presidential candidates who have opposed trade    —   there are no presidents who have opposed trade,” he added. ”In   the postwar period, there have been no antitrade presidents.   Every president has been  . Even if they hadn’’t been as   presidential candidates.” ’ ’   The sentiment about technology, and not trade, being the reason   for so many jobs becoming obsolete was exactly what President   Barack Obama expressed in his State of the Union address earlier   this year. But the argument has fallen mostly on deaf ears. ’ ”   During this week’s North American Leaders Summit in Ottawa,   Ontario, the subject of trade was front and center as Obama stood   onstage and answered questions next to his Canadian and Mexican   counterparts  —   Justin Trudeau and Enrique Peña Nieto. ” ’   Feeling the growing tide of antitrade and   sentiment   brewing back home, Obama said people with concerns over trade had   ”a legitimate gripe about globalization.” ’ ’   ”As the global economy is integrated, what we’’ve seen are trend   lines across the advanced economies of growing inequality and   stagnant wages, and a smaller and smaller share of overall   productivity and growth going to workers, and a larger portion   going to the top 1%,” he said. ”And that’’s a real problem.” ’ ’  ’ ’   If the trend continues, he said, the ”social cohesion” and   ”political consensus needed for liberal market economies starts   breaking down.” ’ ”   Such sentiment helped, in part, to put the Leave vote over the   top in last month’s British referendum on the UK’s membership in   the European Union. ” ’   To address the issue, Obama called for investments in education,   rebuilding infrastructure, and having ”fair” tax policies. ’ ’   ”And what is absolutely true is that too many folks who have been   in charge around the world have neglected that side of the   equation,” he said. ”So we’’re going to keep on pushing hard to   shape an international order that works for our people. But we’’re   not going to be able to do that by cutting off trade, because   that’’s going to make all of us poor.” ’ ’   He later added a line that has been    along the   trail with Trump: ”Free trade also has to be fair trade.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Bruce Andrews, the deputy secretary of commerce in the Obama   administration, in a recent interview with Business Insider did   not place the blame for ”job disruption” on America’’s trade   agreements. ’ ’   He said the job loss that has come as a result of globalization   has ”happened without any trade agreements.” ’ ’   The deputy secretary also called out people  —   without naming any   individuals  —   who ”cite competition with China” as an example of   such a reason to oppose a trade deal such as TPP because ”we   don’’t have a   agreement with China.” ’ ’   ”Globalization is going to take place whether we do these trade   agreements or not,” he said. ”The question is do we want to write   the rules. Do we want to make sure that American companies have   the same access that companies from other countries are going to   have?” ’ ’  ’ ’   Along with Mexico, the chief reason he is in opposition to Nafta,   Trump has used China as a punching bag for his antitrade message. ’ ’   During  in May, Trump insinuated that trade   deals led to the US being ”viewed as the stupid country,”   shrugging off the potential consequences of a trade war with   other countries. ’ ’   ”These dummies say, ’’Oh, that’’s a trade war,’’” he said. ”Trade   war? We’’re losing $500 billion in trade with China. Who the hell   cares if there’’s a trade war?” ’ ’   Andrews cited various reasons to stand behind TPP: He considers   it a renegotiation of Nafta with Mexico and Canada, raising   standards with the two countries; it cuts thousands of tariff   lines, which he called ”essentially a tax cut” for Americans; and   it opens up a much larger portion of the global markets to   unrestricted access for American corporations. ’ ’   He, like Obama, emphasized that the US had to do a better job of   training people for the jobs that are available. ’ ’   ”We can’’t turn the clock back on globalization,” he said.   ”Globalization is going to happen whether we like it or not. What   we can do is prepare the United States to be competitive, create   the technologies of the future, invest in research and   development, make sure they’’re manufactured here, making sure our   workers have the skills to do them, then give the products access   to other markets through trade deals.” ’ ’   The argument that trade deals provide cheaper goods to all   Americans, a point that is made by both Republicans and Democrats   who support TPP, was ripped by Trump.  he said ”we’’re better off paying a   little bit more and having jobs.” ’ ’   ”It’’s a much better system, the way it used to be,” he said. ”We   manufacture goods and sell them to other countries. And a lot of   people say the goods will come in and they’’ll be cheaper, yeah,   but we lost all our jobs. So we’’re better off if the goods aren’’t   quite as cheap but we keep our jobs. And the goods will be of a   higher quality because we do a   good. And we’’re   known for that. But all of a sudden the jobs are gone.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In a recent interview with Business Insider, US Trade   Representative Michael Froman said the antitrade message from the   campaign  —   the message championed by Trump  —   was simple. ’ ’   ”The fact is, you don’’t get to vote on automation,” he said. ”You   don’’t get to vote on whether the next generation of computers or   robots are going to be brought into your workplace. You don’’t   really get to vote on globalization. It’’s a force. It’’s a fact.   It’’s a reflection of the containerization of shipping, the spread   of broadband, the integration of countries like China and Eastern   Europe that used to be closed to the global economy are now part   of the global economy. ’ ’   ”Trade agreements become the vessel into which people pour quite   legitimate economic insecurities,” he continued. ”And you do get   to vote on trade agreements, and they do get to become a   scapegoat for a lot of the other concerns, legitimate concerns.” ’