’  ’ ”   A former Secret Service agent who played a key role during the   investigation into President Bill Clinton’s affair with then   White House intern Monica Lewinsky is already delighting   conservative audiences with a searing   book about the   Clinton White House. ” ’   But on the heels of the Tuesday release of ”,” author Gary Byrne is   having a hard time explaining some serious discrepancies in his   account, which has become a top   on Amazon as   presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton mounts a bid for   the White House. ’ ”   Last week,  that Byrne’s claim that he destroyed towels   allegedly stained with semen and lipstick directly contradicted   testimony the former agent gave in 1998 as part of an   investigation conducted by Kenneth Starr into the affair. ” ”   In a deposition, Byrne said he didn’t ever see any such towels.   He said he only heard White House steward Bayani Nelvis complain   about having to clean up towels that Byrne assumed were the   result of a physical relationship between Lewinsky and Clinton. ” ’   In an interview with Business Insider on Monday, Byrne insisted   that there was no discrepancy between his accounts. ’ ’  ’ ”   The former agent said that because he was instructed to only   answer investigators’ questions in the 1998 testimony directly   and literally, they missed an opportunity to press him for the   truth. Byrne claimed that investigators only asked him about     tissues, not hand towels. ” ’   ”It’’s two different things that happened. One was lipstick on   hand towels and some other stuff, and then one was tissues. They   kept talking about tissues, tissues, tissues. It’’s not my job  —     I’’m under oath, I have to tell the truth  —   but it’’s not my job to   put them on the right path, to skewer the president. I didn’’t   want to tell these investigators anything,” Byrne said. ’ ’   Pressed to clarify, he added: ”They were hand towels. [The   investigators] were asking about tissues. I was familiar with   what they were talking about, but again, it’’s not my job to steer   them straight.” ’ ”   But a closer examination of Byrne’s testimony revealed more   disparities. ” ’   During multiple depositions in the summer and fall of 1998   reviewed by Business Insider, Byrne said Nelvis was carrying   ”tissues or towels” when he and Byrne crossed paths in the White   House. Byrne used both towels and tissues interchangeably when   questioned by investigators in June 1998 and during a grand jury   deposition on July 17, 1998. ’ ’   From his testimony on June 25, 1998: ’ ’   Byrne claimed during multiple depositions that he did not   remember seeing the lipstick on the towels or tissues, and said   he did not remember whether he had one conversation or multiple   with Nelvis about them. Byrne also initially said he believed the   lipstick belonged to a separate White House staffer but later   claimed he assumed the lipstick was Lewinsky’’s, citing his ”bad   memory” for the  . ’ ’   Despite suggestions that he did not attempt to steer   investigators, Byrne also was fairly forthcoming with some   details of the lipstick exchange. When asked on June 25, 1998,   whether he saw tissues or towels, Byrne clarified that they were   white terrycloth, but he added that he could not recall seeing   stains on them. ’ ’   By the time Byrne wrote his book, his story had changed   dramatically. ’ ’   The book describes in vivid detail his destruction of the towels: ’ ’   Byrne told Business Insider that he did not talk to any former   Secret Service agents while writing the book, instead relying on   his memory. ’ ’’ ’   ”Obviously this guy writing this story is a Clinton supporter,”   Byrne said of the BuzzFeed author. ”He’’s part of the problem. He   wants to keep this story going  —   that she’’s this fictitious great   leader, and she’’s not, she’’s not a leader. Not even a great   follower.” ’ ’   Byrne did not respond to requests for clarification on Tuesday   from Business Insider. ’ ’   For its part, the Secret Service has distanced itself from Byrne. ’ ”   In a rare statement last week, the Association of Former Agents   of the US Secret Service questioned Byrne’s credibility. ” ’   ”One must question the veracity and content of any book which   implies that its author played such an integral part of so many   [claimed] incidents. Any critique of management by one who has   never managed personnel or programs resounds hollow.   Additionally, why would an employee wait in excess of ten years   after terminating his employment with the Service to make his   allegations public?” the statement said, . ’