’  ’ ”   Britain’s vote to leave the European Union is  in the capital’s financial sector is on the way. ” ”   But staff at Barclays told Business Insider that actually they   are really positive about the future and CEO Jes Staley has done   a great job at making them feel that regardless of when Brexit   will happen, jobs and the bank’s health will be protected as much   as possible. ” ’   ”[Staley] thanked us all for our performance during Brexit,” said   one investment banking employee who attended the     town hall meeting this week. ”All our systems were up and we were   available for all our customers on the day. He also mentioned   that the event further justified the advantage of being a   transatlantic bank because despite sterling going down, Barclays’’   dollar business went suitably up.” ’ ’   ”He also mentioned how the main focus for turning profit this   year will be the sale of the   businesses, which is   completely unaffected by Brexit, so we should be in really good   stead by the end of next year. And finally, he told us how,   regardless, of what rules happen [in the event of a Brexit]   within the next two years, related to EU work visas, he said he’’d   try his best and keep everyone working here because he wants to   retain talent.” ’ ’   Another bank employee told BI that Staley highlighted the fact   that since Barclays is a transatlantic bank, it was diversified   enough to weather any downturn in one unit. For example, if the   UK investment banking arm was hit temporarily, the US arm would   buoy it up with business. ’ ’  ’ ’   And the feeling that Staley was the right man to lead the bank   through turbulent times seemed to resonate across staff. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Uncertainty over the City of London’s role as Europe’s key   financial hub, once the UK leaves the European Union, means that   many banks are thought to be considering moving substantial   numbers of staff away from their UK operations and to elsewhere   on the continent. ” ’   Over the last week it was  a rumour that was denied. JP Morgan is   also among the banks that could send   staff   elsewhere in the aftermath of Brexit.    ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’