’  ’ ’   Donald Trump called the media a bunch of ”liars” and ”bad people”   at a Wednesday rally, slamming the press for reporting on his   praise of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein during an event in   North Carolina the night before. ’ ’   ”’’Donald Trump loves Saddam Hussein,’’” Trump said, pretending to   be a member of the press. ”’’He loves Saddam Hussein. ’’” ’ ’   Trump added that he was asked whether he loved Hussein by a   reporter at the Cincinnati Enquirer ahead of his Wednesday rally. ’ ’   ”I said, ’’That’’s not what I said,’’” Trump said. ”’’That’’s not what   I said. That’’s just the narrative that’’s going around. People   that saw it thought it was great. ’’” ’ ’   He added that reporters were ”liars” and ”bad people.” ’ ’   ”What I did say is that he was good at one thing  —   he was really   good at one thing,” Trump said. ”That was killing terrorists.” ’ ’   ”He didn’’t wait around and give trials that lasted 18 years,” he   continued. ”And then after 18 years if they had the right lawyer,   they erect a statue of the terrorist. Not with Trump.” ’ ’   The presumptive Republican nominee said at his Cincinnati rally   that he thought Hussein was a ”really bad guy” but continued to   insist that he was ”really good” at ”killing terrorists.” ’ ’   ”I don’’t love Saddam Hussein,” he said. ”I hate Saddam Hussein.   But he was damn good at killing terrorists and now terrorists,   terrorist people go into Iraq  —   I said yesterday it’’s the   Harvard, the Harvard University, Harvard for terrorists.” ’ ’ ’ ’ Trump   promoted a near identical position on Hussein, who was toppled in   2003 after the   invasion of Iraq and later executed. ’ ”   In a statement Tuesday evening, Jake Sullivan, a senior policy   adviser for Hillary Clinton’s campaign, slammed Trump’s praise of   Hussein. Sullivan noted the ousted leader’s numerous     violations. ” ’   He also criticized Trump’’s penchant for displaying sympathy   toward foreign ”strongmen” like Russian President Vladimir Putin   and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un. ’ ’   ”Donald Trump’’s praise for brutal strongmen seemingly knows no   bounds,” Sullivan said. ’ ’   ”Trump yet again lauded Saddam Hussein as a great killer of   terrorists, noting with approval that he never bothered to read   anyone their rights,” he continued. ”In reality, Hussein’’s regime   was a sponsor of terrorism  —   one that paid families of suicide   bombers who attacked Israelis, among other crimes. Trump’’s   cavalier compliments for brutal dictators, and the twisted   lessons he seems to have learned from their history, again   demonstrate how dangerous he would be as    and   how unworthy he is of the office he seeks.” ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan condemned the remarks soon after during a   Tuesday interview with Fox News host Megyn Kelly. ’ ’   ”He was one of the 20th century’’s most evil people,” Ryan said.   ”He was up there.” ’ ’   ”He committed mass genocide against his own people using chemical   weapons,” the speaker added, referring to Hussein’’s attacks   against the Kurds in Iraq. ’ ’ Maxwell Tani contributed to this report ’