’  ’ ’     In Britain, McDonald’s fries have four ingredients: potatoes,     vegetable oil, dextrose, and salt.   ’ ’     In the U. S. McDonald’s fries have a whopping 19     ingredients —  including sodium acid pyrophosphate, which keeps     the fries’ color from getting dull. This is strange since you’d     think that all we really expect of French fries is for them to     at least vaguely mimic the color of a potato.   ’ ’     Then there’s McDonald’s strawberry sundae. In Britain’s     version, all the color comes from real strawberries. In the     U. S. we use Red No. 40. This plays out beyond the fast food     chain: For example, Starburst fruit chews are colored with     carotenes and chlorophylls across the Atlantic but with Red No.     40 and Yellow No. 6 in the U. S. Many major food companies in     the U. S. use artificial food dyes in America —  while selling     naturally colored or   versions in Europe.   ’ ’   Chemicals like Red No. 40, Yellow No. 5, and Blue No. 1 make   American food look better. These additives are the culinary   equivalents of lipstick and mascara, and they are often made from   the same pigments. Making food pretty has become the status   quo in the U. S. but it’s not doing us any good: Not only does it   trick us into thinking some foods are healthier than they are,   but the dyes themselves may be harmful. So why do we use   keep using these dyes when so many other countries manage without   them? ’ ’   It wasn’t always this way. Until the     century, natural food dyes from   plants, animals, and minerals were used to color food in the U. S.   Things changed when companies discovered artificial dyes which   were cheaper, brighter, and more stable than their natural   counterparts. Artificial dyes made food look more attractive,   which made them popular with consumers. America is a relatively   young and expansive country, and a major historical concern   involved feeding a growing population while moving food large   distances. Food was treated like a commodity, with market forces   shaping what were most valued: cost, convenience, and appearance.   For decades, there was little push to fret —  as Europeans did —  about   what was actually in our food. We just wanted it to look good. ’ ’      Lancet  ’ ’  ’ ’   After the Lancet study was published, some   academic skeptics who had doubted parental claims that food dyes   affected the behavior of healthy children admitted they might   have been wrong. In 2010, the European Parliament passed a law   requiring warning labels on products with any of the six tested   food dyes, and banned the use of food dyes for infants and young   children, effectively ridding much of the European food   supply —  which had low amounts of artificial food dyes to begin   with —  of artificial food coloring. The doses used for some of the   kids in this study, 20 to 30 milligrams of artificial food   coloring, were not as high as those typically ingested by   American children —  in fact, kids often consume far higher doses   than what was found to be harmful in clinical trials. ’ ’   The Food and Drug Administration reacted differently to the same   evidence. A  stated   that a causal relationship between dyes and hyperactivity was not   conclusively established based on available research, though the   report conceded that dyes made symptoms worse in children with   ADHD and other preexisting behavioral problems. Since this report   was published, evidence that food dyes cause problems has   continued to mount.  stated that   the negative effects of food dyes on children’s behavior weren’t   confined to those with ADHD. The latest  from the Center for Science in the   Public Interest, released in January, lamented the FDA’s inaction   and cautioned, “the harm to children and the costs to society   from dyes are needless and preventable. ” ’ ’   It is true that pulling conclusive, universal findings from   scientific research is a difficult task. Sure, there may be   evidence suggesting harm from food additives, but some of the   research was performed in animals and may not apply to humans.   More   research is needed to determine what happens   when healthy people ingest typical doses of common food   additives. We still don’t understand exactly what could be   causing the negative effects food coloring seems to have on kids   with certain conditions. All of these caveats are important to   recognize. ’ ’   But when it comes to food coloring, why should we have to prove   just   exactly how and why the   substance causes a negative effect on the people who consume it   before we can ban it? If this were a necessary or meaningful food   ingredient in any way, sure, that would be a reasonable standard.   But food coloring has no nutritional value. Why are we risking   it? ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’   Most likely because it helps companies sell products. Pretty food   pays off because aesthetics in food do matter. We have relied on   visual cues for thousands of years to help us determine what is   edible, nutritious, and safe to eat. Man has adapted to   appreciate natural colors, including a variety of green, red,   pink, orange, yellow, and purple produce: Colors signal that food   is ripe or that it contains healthy compounds. Because of that   evolutionary background, color is money for food manufacturers.   Children are especially attracted to a variety of bright, vibrant   colors and succumb to targeted marketing. Food dyes make   processed food more appealing. For example, margarine was   originally white —  manufacturers wanted to tint it yellow to appeal   to the public. Butter producers objected, saying this would   deceive the public. (In fact, butter is also naturally pale and   dyed yellow.) ’ ’   Food aesthetics can also affect how we perceive   taste.  when subjects   were given sugar water in different shades of red, they reported   that the deep red drinks tasted sweeter than the light red ones.   We’ve been primed to expect certain things from certain   colors:  showed   people had a harder time identifying drink flavors when the   drinks didn’t have the expected colors (an   drink   that was really   tasted like an orange). We expect   what nature has taught us, and even though our food system has   changed radically in the past several decades, our expectations   have yet to catch up. Food companies can instead use this   knowledge to trick us and make their processed products appear   more palatable. ’ ’   The reason why food coloring is still allowed is wrapped up in   the different approach the U. S. takes to food regulation. A key   element of the European Union’s public health protection policy   is the “precautionary principle,” under which credible evidence   of danger to human health merits protective action despite   scientific uncertainty. Unlike the EU, the U. S. government sets   high standards for proof of harm before regulatory action is   taken. In fact, the FDA’s “Generally Recognized as Safe” (GRAS)   designation, introduced in 1958, allows companies to evaluate   their own substances and deem them acceptable themselves, after   which the FDA can review the evaluation —  if it wants to. While   this makes sense for ingredients like salt and pepper, GRAS lets   producers take new food additives to the market without even   informing the FDA. Trans fat was classified as GRAS until the   label was withdrawn in 2015. ’ ’   As ingredient lists in other parts of the world show us, it’s   possible to still get basically the same experience without the   potentially negative consequences. Consumer demand can drive   change. Parents and activists have been petitioning food   companies to remove dyes for years, and some are   obliging: In February, candy giant Mars agreed to remove   artificial food coloring in all of its human food products over   the next five years. Mars’ recent decision echoes those made by   other food industry behemoths including Kraft, Nestle, and   General Mills. We’re lucky to have producers take this action,   but we shouldn’t have to wait for their benevolence. ’ ’     Last month, six former commissioners of the FDA met in Aspen,     Colorado, to critique the agency. They pointed out that     thousands of food additives are a part of our food system     because of the GRAS loophole, one that leaves safety decisions     to the producers rather than the FDA. We should tell the FDA     that we demand more: It is their job to keep us safe from these     unnecessary chemicals. In the quandary over brighter mac and     cheese and the risk of hyperactivity, the answer is easy —  let’s     tone down our food.   ’