’  ’ ’   I served as a police officer and a detective for over 12 years,   and I have felt a particular connection to the tragic events of   the past few weeks, which speak to the tragic gap between black   Americans and the police departments that are supposed to serve   them. ’ ”   As a white American, I do not know what it’s like to be  because of my skin color, or to stand out in a crowd   as a minority because of my skin color. I do not know what it’s   like to be  as other Americans on average to   get a job I apply for because of my skin color. ” ”   I also don’t know what it’s like to be significantly more likely   to be  than people of other racial groups or   to be  at a rate three times the   average because of my skin color. I don’t know what it feels like   to know that if found guilty of a crime, I could be given a    based on the color   of my skin. ” ”   This is, of course, the reality for 13% of the US’s population,   for the black population. ” ’   Yet I do know something about the strained relationship between   black communities and American police officers, and I know it   firsthand. ’ ”   I know what it’s like when a community you serve declines to   cooperate with you during a criminal investigation because of the   uniform you wear. I know what it’s like to try your hardest to   earn the trust of (understandably) untrusting communities only to   see another member of the police community murder a black teen on   national news. ” ’   I know what it feels like to respond to a 911 call only to have   the caller request a black officer because ”you can’’t trust white   cops.” I know what it feels like to be constantly told I am a   racist just because I am white and I wore a uniform. I know what   it’’s like to be hated because of the combination of my profession   and the color of my skin. ’ ”   You see, no   member of a black community knows what   it’s like to put on the most hated uniform in the country, just   as a white police officer doesn’t know what it is to have the   skin of an oppressed community. ” ’  ’ ’   This is the tragedy of our differences  —   but it also shows the   immeasurable value of each personal experience when trying to   bridge fractured relationships. ’ ’   Americans need to know about and acknowledge these very   observable gaps between themselves and their police officers.   They need to openly discuss any intentional or unconscious   discrimination that plagues all walks of society. Americans need   to understand just how difficult policing is in a country where   you are  as   you would be in any other developed country. ’ ’   But the implications of overlooking and denying racism need to be   openly examined and discussed too, and American police   departments have specifically avoided doing that for far too   long. ’ ’   To improve the lethally distrustful relationships between the   black community and policing, several things must be done. ’ ’   First, the policing community has an obligation to be transparent   with all communities regarding use of force and the impact that   racism has upon it. The police must acknowledge that racism   exists in American policing, just as with other professions. If a   police force is aware that a shooting is unjust or that an   incident is tainted with bias, it must immediately acknowledge   and denounce it and see that those responsible are brought to   justice. ’ ’   This is a critical social obligation. This would entail effective   prosecution in a swift manner for any criminal charges that might   have occurred after a criminal investigation has been conducted.   Police communities should focus more attention on community   policing tactics so further personal attachments could be built   to their neighborhood beat cops. ’ ’  ’ ’   The policing community cannot lead this effort alone. Black   communities will have a part to play in opening up better   communication and reaching understanding with the forces they so   distrust. ’ ’   But something more fundamental needs to change too: White   Americans must acknowledge that their country was built on the   backs of subordinated black and Native American identities. We   must acknowledge the mass of laws and practices that has been   called  a system that perpetuates white social and   political dominance while incarcerating black Americans in their   hundreds of thousands. We must acknowledge and confront the   effects of systemic and personal bias on real people and their   communities. ’ ”   After all, the first step toward overcoming structural racism   within society and policing alike is to acknowledge that it   exists. It’s long past time that all Americans did   so.” ’     ’