’  ’ ’   Who would want to pay tens of millions to live in a     apartment hundreds of feet above the city within a       building? ’ ’   The answer, it seems, is fewer people than developers had hoped. ’ ’   With a cooling market, units left unsold, and developers being   forced to slash prices, it seems the golden age of New York City   real estate is over, a recent  warns. ’ ’   Nowhere is this more obvious than on what was only recently   christened ”Billionaire’’s Row.” This area around 57th Street in   Midtown Manhattan was so named for its cluster of extremely tall   apartment buildings ostensibly catering to the elite with     Manhattan views and   finishes. ’ ’   Construction was booming just two years ago, but there now seem   to be more   apartments available than there are   interested buyers. ’ ’   On Billionaire’’s Row, ” ’ ’   Of course, these condos had price tags to match, some even   stretching into nine figures. These apartments were often used as   a safe, steady place to stash capital rather than as an actual   space to live. In years prior, buildings like One57 and 432 Park   Avenue attracted foreign investors who hid behind shell   corporations to conceal their identity. ’ ”   Now, with  by the US Treasury Department, and with new   regulations on capital outflow abroad () it’s becoming harder for foreign investors to use   these apartments as investment properties. Pair that with an   uncertain global market, and it’s clear why the developers of   these unique buildings are feeling the pinch. ” ’  ’ ’   To sell these units, many of which are now considerably   overpriced for the market, many developers are breaking     units in half or  like free yachts and   luxury cars. Slashing prices is usually seen as a last resort,   but that is happening too. ’ ’   One of the newest iterations of these buildings, 111 West 57th   Street, is even delaying marketing and selling its condos in   light of the cooling market, . ’ ”   Even as the market above $10 million cools, it’s unlikely that   the average apartment buyer in Manhattan or New York will feel   any relief, as the market at $3 million and below remains as   heated as ever. ”