’  ’ ’   Starbucks is opening a new type of store and, for the first time,   baking food   at certain locations, thanks to a   partnership with a trendy Italian bakery. ’ ’   On Wednesday, Starbucks announced a partnership with Princi, an   artisan Italian bakery and restaurant. ’ ”   In 2017, new Starbucks Roastery locations will begin baking   Princi items in the stores. Additionally, Princi will be the only   food served in Starbucks’   stores  —   a new store   format that will open next year. ” ’   ”This will be the first time in our   history that we will   actually be baking in a store,” Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz said   in a call with reporters. ”The Roasteries in New York and   Shanghai, and others that will be announced in coming months,   will have a   bakery operation in the facility,   not unlike what we’’re doing in terms of roasting.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Schultz said that Princi’’s ”intoxicating, seductive” environment   made it the perfect pick as a partner for the next evolution of   the Roastery experience. ’ ’   The first location of the  was founded by Rocco Princi in 1986 and has since   expanded to four locations in Milan and one in London. ’ ’   As part of the partnership and investment, Starbucks will assume   the role of licensee in new Princi stores, with plans to open a   number of standalone Princi locations worldwide, including one in   Seattle in 2017. ’ ”   In recent years, Starbucks has doubled down on quality and more   gourmet fare. In an effort to grow its premium coffee business,   the company debuted the    in December 2014. Today, there are nearly 2, 000 Starbucks Reserve   cafes, selling the company’s premium coffee line along with the   traditional Starbucks menu. ” ’  ’ ’   Now it seems the chain is trying to do the same thing with food   as it has done with coffee. ’ ’   Starbucks   stores are key to what Schultz calls ”the   next evolution of the Starbucks Roastery experience.” ’ ’   ”Given the response we’’ve had to the Roastery and Reserve coffee,   we believe that there’’s an opportunity to build a     store,” said Schultz. ”This is an opportunity for us to elevate   food in a way we never have before.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The   stores will be larger than the typical Starbucks   (300 square meters versus 150 square meters) and feature the   highly visual Roastery bar, which offers five different methods   of coffee preparation. ’ ’   Starbucks did not provide a numbers of   stores   planned, though Schultz said there were ”hundreds of   opportunities in both Reserve stores and Princi stores in the US   alone.” ’ ’   Unlike current Reserve stores,   stores will   exclusively serve Princi food. They will also only offer   Starbucks   Reserve coffee instead of serving both   Reserve and other brews. ’ ”   The   stores and the partnership with Princi represent   a new step in Starbucks’ obsession with quality, following in the   footsteps of the Roastery. ” ’   ”The success of the Roastery in Seattle has really opened up the   aperture of our enthusiasm and our strategic push to elevate at   almost every level the premiumization of the Starbucks customer   experience going forward,” said Schultz. ’ ’   As the chain opens more Roasteries, they will serve as important   testing grounds for Starbucks. While the vast majority of   Starbucks locations will continue to serve La Boulange Bakery   items, Princi will be a chance to explore a new food approach. ’ ’  ’ ”   When Starbucks bought La Boulange in 2012 for $100 million, it   acquired all the bakery’s recipes. When the chain  these recipes proved to be more valuable   than La Boulange’s 23 locations, helping Starbucks boost its food   business in the   every year since the acquisition. ” ”   Just because Princi will initially only be served at Roasteries   and in   stores does not mean the bakery’s ideas and   recipes will be contained to a handful of locations. Starbucks’   cold brew started as a test at the Roastery before rolling out   nationwide in summer 2015; nitro cold brew was a Roastery test   before rolling out to 500 locations this summer. ” ”   Still, don’t expect artisan Italian baked goods to show up at   your local Starbucks anytime soon.   stores and Princi   may be the future of Starbucks, but Schultz says that they   represent a growing segment of premium locations, intended to   coexist with  —   not replace  —   Starbucks locations across the   world. ” ’   ”It’’s not that we’’re fixing something that’’s broken,” said   Schultz. ”Quite the opposite. We’’re elevating the food experience   in key, new locations that will be a premium,     experience   …     We’’re talking today about a small segment of an   opportunity that over time will be much bigger.” ’