’  ’ ’   Another  and early indications seem to point to   terrorism. ’ ’   At least 80 people were reportedly killed in the southern French   city of Nice when a truck ran into a crowd celebrating the   Bastille Day national holiday on Thursday night. ’ ’   If a terrorist group is responsible, then this would be the   second major terrorist attack to his France in a year and the   third since January 2015. ’ ’   John Schindler, the   columnist for The New York   Observer,  in Paris that killed 130 people:   ”Jihadists with Balkan small arms were shooting up France in 1995   . .. got no idea why anybody is surprised.” ’ ’   Attackers used guns and bombs at several sites across Paris in   that November attack, including the Stade de France and the   Bataclan theater, leading to an examination of why France has   become a prime target for terrorist groups. ’ ’   ISIS, also known as the Islamic State, Daesh, or ISIL, called   Paris ”the capital of prostitution and vice” in a statement   claiming responsibility for the Paris attacks last year. The   terrorist group also stated that France and ”all nations   following in its path” were ”at the top of the target list for   the Islamic State.” ’ ’   Under President Francois Hollande, France    last September. The country is also a closer and more   opportunistic target for extremist groups. ’ ’   Witnesses at the Bataclan said the gunmen shouted in French,   ”This is because of all the harm done by Hollande to Muslims all   over the world,”  The New York Times. Another witness confirmed   this to CNN, telling the news network that the attacker who   shouted that statement sounded like a native French speaker. ’ ’   Will McCants, an expert on extremism and author of the recent   book ”,” told Business Insider in November that the   attack could have been a pointed warning to France to cease   strikes in Syria. ’ ’   It could be ”to say to France, ’’If you continue to bomb our   positions, there’’s going to be more of the same and you had   better leave off or more of your civilians will die,’’” McCants   said. ’ ’   But he pointed out that it was difficult to speculate about   ISIS’’s reasoning because ”it may be a matter of where they had   the greatest opportunity.” ’ ’   ”The nation that is ISIS’’ greatest enemy is the United States,”   McCants said. ”And you would have to expect that [the US] would   be at the very top of their list of targets. But it’’s also very   difficult to get operatives into this country.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Paris might also be a more fruitful recruiting ground for ISIS   than cities in some other Western countries. ’ ’   Tensions surrounding France’’s Muslim community have long been   simmering, as  a foreign correspondent for The New Yorker who   covered the Iraq War, . The piece, ”The Other France,” wondered   whether Paris suburbs were an ”incubator for terrorism.” ’ ’   Packer wrote: ’ ’   After the attack on the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo   earlier last year, which was carried out by Al Qaeda operatives,   local activists in a Paris banlieue worried that France would   become even more divided. ’ ’   ”I fear for the Muslims of France,” one woman wrote on an   activist’’s Facebook page, according to Packer. ”The     or frightened are going to dig in their heels and make an   amalgame” to conflate terrorists with all Muslims, the   woman said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Packer explained the context of the tensions between some French   people and families who came over from Algeria: ’ ’   Andrew Hussey, a British scholar at the University of London   School of Advanced Study in Paris, told Packer: ’ ”   This can be isolating for Muslims in Paris’ suburbs. ” ’   Packer said citizens of immigrant descent ”often identify whites   with the term Français de souche  —   ’’French from the   roots. ’’ The implication is that people with darker skin are not   fully French.” ’