’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton vehemently condemned ”radical jihadists” Thursday   night, following the  in Nice, France that killed at least   80 people and injured dozens of others. ’ ’   No group has claimed responsibility for the violence, but Paris     officials have  and   groups have been   celebrating the attack. ’ ’   ”It’’s clear we are at war with these terrorist groups and what   they represent,” Clinton said on CNN. ”It’’s a different kind of   war, and we need to be smart about how we wage it and win it.” ’ ’   CNN anchor Anderson Cooper interjected, asking the presumptive   Democratic presidential nominee, ”When you say we’re at war, who   are we at war with? Are we at worth with radical jihadists?   Radical Islam? Who are we at war against?” ’ ’   Clinton responded: ’ ’   ”We are at war against radical jihadists who use Islam to recruit   and radicalize others in order to pursue their evil agenda.” ’ ’   ”It’s not so important what we call these people as to what we do   about them,” she added, referencing her opponent Donald Trump’’s    at her and President Barack Obama for not using   the phrase ”radical Islamic terrorism.” ’ ”   Clinton also alluded to her approach to foreign policy with   comments that resemble  after last month’s deadly airport bombing in   Istanbul. ” ’   ”It reminds us very vividly and tragically that we have to stand   with our allies and not abandon them,” Clinton said. ”And we have   to strengthen our alliances, including with NATO, not undermine   them.” ’ ’   Clinton released the following statement late Thursday   night: ’ ’     ”Once again, it appears that terrorists have struck at one of     our closest allies in Europe, attacking families celebrating     the history and culture of their country on Bastille Day. Every     American stands in strong solidarity with the people of France,     and we say with one voice: we will not be intimidated. We will     never allow terrorists to undermine the egalitarian and     democratic values that underpin our very way of life. This     cowardly attack only strengthens our commitment to our alliance     and to defeating terrorism around the world. Our thoughts and     prayers are with the families of those killed and injured, and     with all our friends in France.”   ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’Hillary Clinton to : ”We are at war against radical jihadist”  ’ ’     ’