’’ ’Goldman Sachs just reported   earnings that beat on the top and bottom lines.’ ’The firm reported earnings per share of $3. 72 on revenue of $7. 93 billion.’ ’Analysts were expecting earnings per share of $3. 08 on revenue of $7. 55 billion, according to Bloomberg.’ ’”Despite the uncertainty created by Brexit, we achieved solid results by continuing to serve our clients across our diversified franchise and by managing our business efficiently,” CEO Lloyd Blankfein said in a statement.’ ’In the  Goldman reported earnings per share of $1. 98 on revenue of $9. 07 billion. Excluding legal fees, however, adjusted earnings per share were $4. 75.’ ’Total trading revenues in Q2 came in at $3. 68 billion ($3. 67 billion expected) up 2% from the quarter a year ago.’ ’Fixed income, currencies, and commodities  —   or FICC  —   trading revenues were $1. 93 billion ($1. 80 billion expected) up 20%    because of stronger revenues in interest rate products and commodities, and especially in currencies and credit products. That was partially offset by weak mortgage revenues.’ ’”Although   conditions generally improved compared with the first quarter of 2016, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution continued to operate in a challenging environment characterized by low interest rates, political uncertainty and concerns about global growth,” the firm said.’ ’Equities revenues were a miss, coming in at $1. 75 billion ($1. 88 billion expected)  —   down 12% from last year. The firm said that was driven by lower revenues in cash products and derivatives in Asia. Securities services saw slightly lower revenues.’ ’”During the quarter, the operating environment for Equities was impacted by lower levels of client activity, lower market volumes and a decline in volatility compared with the first quarter of 2016,” the firm said.’ ’Investment banking revenues came in at $1. 79 billion ($1. 56 billion expected) down 11% from the quarter a year ago. The firm saw lower advisory revenues and lower equity underwriting revenues. Debt underwriting revenues were higher, reflecting strong   activity.’ ’Goldman said its investment banking backlog decreased from the ends of both the quarter a year ago and the first quarter of 2016.’ ’Also of note, investing and lending revenues were $1. 11 billion, down 38%    while investment management revenues of $1. 35 billion were 18% lower than the same quarter last year.’ ’Compensation and benefits expenses of $3. 33 billion were down 13%    to reflect the decrease in net revenues.’ ’In the  Goldman whiffed, reporting diluted earnings per share of $2. 68 on revenue of $6. 34 billion.’ ’  and  have already reported   earnings. Morgan Stanley is set to report on Wednesday.’