’  ’ ’   After helping to    earlier this week, Jon Stewart came out of retirement once again   to take over CBS’’ ”Late Show” during its live episode after the   Republican National Convention on Thursday. ’ ’   The former ”Daily Show” host took the opportunity to displace   Colbert for some choice words on GOP presidential nominee Donald   Trump, the ”  media,” and Republicans in general. ’ ’   ”Well, the convention’’s over,” Stewart began. ”I thought Donald   Trump was going to speak. Ivanka [Trump] said he was going to   come out. She said he was really compassionate and generous. But   then this angry groundhog came out and he just vomited all over   everybody for an hour.” ’ ”   Stewart boiled down the convention’s messages down to three   points. ” ’   ”One, jail your political opponent,” he said. ”Inject Rudy   Giuliani with a speedball and Red Bull enema. And then three,   spend the rest of the time scaring the holy bejeezus out of   everybody.” ’ ’   But Stewart was just warming up. He really wanted to point out   what he saw as the hypocrisy of Republicans backing a candidate   that ”embodies all the things that they have for years said that   they hated about Barack Obama.” ’ ’   He then played a montage of things Republicans have criticized   Obama for in the past, including a lack of government experience,   and for being divisive,   authoritarian, and ”a   narcissist with no grip on reality.” ’ ’   His attention then turned to the ”  media” and   specifically Fox News Channel’’s Sean Hannity, whom Stewart   referred to as ”Lumpy.” In a series of clips, he showed how the   conservative host said one characteristic was bad about Obama and   then praised the same trait in Trump. ’ ’   ”So here’’s where we are,” Stewart concluded. ”Either ’’Lumpy’’ and   his friends are lying about being bothered by     authoritarian,    readers of [teleprompter]   being president, or they don’’t care as long as it’’s their     [ ] authoritarian, tyrant   narcissist. ’ ’   ”You just want that person to give you your country back because   you feel you’’re this country’’s rightful owners. There’’s only one   problem with that: This country isn’’t yours. You don’’t own it. It   never was.” ’ ” Watch Stewart’s   return below: ” ’     ’