’  ’ ’   Clif Bar, the   company that generates an  has a generous perk   it uses to reward employees and maintain a low turnover   rate.  ’ ’   After every seven years of service, employees become eligible for   a    week paid sabbatical, which they can use to spend   time with their families, travel, and accomplish longstanding   personal goals  —   no strings attached. ’ ’   A somewhat rare company benefit  the paid sabbatical serves as   an example of the   culture Clif Bar strives for. ’ ’   When defining success, the   company doesn’t just look   at the bottom line, but also prioritizes the prosperity of its   employees, the Clif Bar community, and the planet as a whole. ’ ’   ”Our company IS our people,” . ”We work to create an environment   where our employees can grow and succeed as they live the lives   they want to live.” ’ ’   More than 100 employees have taken advantage of the sabbatical   program, with a couple dozen coming up on their second or third   round. They use the time off in a variety of ways, from   completing a  to taking cooking classes to   simply  every day. ’ ’   Claudia Perkins, vice president of human resources at Clif, used   hers to attend a Mosaic of Peace Conference in Israel and   Palestine with her husband. ”I’d never had eight weeks off in my   adult life before,” . ”Sabbatical felt like a   tremendous gift of time and an opportunity to gain perspective on   all of the good aspects of work and the meaning you get from   people.” ’ ’   Ben Huffmaster, a senior manager of sales finance, opted out of a   big trip and used his weeks off to spend quality time with his   family and disconnect from work. ’ ’   ”It’s really your time to do whatever you want, knowing you’re   still employed and getting a paycheck,” . ”You get to do what you dreamed of doing and never   really had time to do. You come back feeling refreshed and   focused, knowing your coworkers have covered for you.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The perk doesn’t just benefit the employees; it provides value to   the company at large. Giving workers a mental break to completely   unwind and recharge prevents burnout and allows employees to   return more productive than before. ’ ’   It also keeps employees engaged at work, helping Clif Bar excel   at employee retention  —   the company boasts a . ’ ’   ”When you return, it helps you pick your spots,” . ”The regular work frustrations don’t seem as   great when you realize that work is just one component of your   life.” ’ ’   Clif isn’t the only place with this advantage. Others that have   jumped on to the sabbatical bandwagon include . ’