’  ’ ’   If you’’re looking for an excuse to back out of a social   engagement tonight  —   preferably one that’’s not, ”I’’d rather play   Pokémon Go”  —   have we got the perfect line for you. ’ ’   Ready? ’ ’   ”I’’m just too intelligent.” ’ ’   Be sure to come with plenty of supporting evidence, namely an IQ   score and the results of a recent study on the ”savanna   theory of happiness.” Your pals will be sure to   understand. ’ ’ led by psychologists at Singapore Management   University and the London School of Economics, found that people   are generally happier the more time they spend with friends. That   is, except really smart people. ’ ’   The researchers arrived at these conclusions after conducting two   studies. Both relied on data from the National Longitudinal Study   of Adolescent Health, which involved interviews with more than   15, 000 people between ages 18 and 28 in the years 2001 and 2002. ’ ”   For the first study, the researchers looked at the link between   three factors: participants’ scores on an intelligence test, the   population density in the area where participants lived, and how   satisfied participants were with their lives. ” ’   Results showed that people were generally happier in less   populated areas  —   except for highly intelligent people. ’ ”   For the second study, the researchers looked at the link between   participants’ IQ scores, their life satisfaction, and how often   they socialized (meaning hung out or talked on the phone with)   friends. ” ’   Sure enough, the more time people spent with friends, the happier   they were  —   except for the really smart people. In fact, results   showed that the more intelligent people socialized with friends,   the less satisfied they were with life. ’ ’  ’ ’   The researchers can’’t say for sure why they got these results.   One possibility they propose is the savanna theory of happiness,   an evolutionary theory that suggests the human brain responds to   the ”ancestral consequences” of its environment and     varies as a result. ’ ”   In other words, humans used to live in communities of about 150   people, so when we’re in environments where the population   exceeds that number, we’re not as comfortable or happy. ” ’   Likewise, in those groups of 150 hunters and gatherers, frequent   contact with friends was crucial to our survival. So today, when   we feel too isolated, we feel less happy. ’ ”   Here’s where intelligence comes in. One of the study authors    that intelligence is the ability to adapt to novel   environments  —   i. e. environments that would have freaked out   our ancestors. So highly intelligent people aren’t as bothered by   living in   communities or by spending time alone. ” ”   Perhaps the most intriguing finding from this study is that   highly intelligent participants actually spent more time   socializing with friends. That suggests people either don’t know   what makes them happy, or don’t have much control over how they   spend their time. ” ’   So, regardless of what your IQ is or what you believe it to be,   it’’s worth paying attention to what makes you happy  —   and not   what you think should make you happy. If that means   taking a ”me” day or hopping off a subway car where passengers   are packed like sardines, go for it. Your   brain   will thank you. ’