’    ’ ’   PHILADELPHIA  —   Sen. Bernie Sanders’’ top surrogates at the   Democratic National Convention on Monday had a    plea   for unity to   ”Bernie or bust” delegates: Remember the   party platform. ’ ”   Throughout the first day of the convention,   Sanders   proponents touted the concessions that Democratic Party   leadership made to the Vermont senator’s supporters in reforming   the platform, the formal set of goals that were officially   adopted by the party on Monday. ” ”   Maine state Rep. Diane Russell touted the Democratic National   Committee’s decision to consider removing superdelegates,   Democratic Party officials whose votes play a small role in   selecting presidential candidates. ” ’   Introducing Sanders at the convention on Monday, former Sanders   surrogate Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota noted the ways the   Sanders campaign influenced the official Democratic Party   platform. He mentioned the adoption of provisions like support   for a $15 federal minimum wage and heavy regulations on hydraulic   fracturing, a process that environmentalists deride for its side   effects. ’ ’   ”Tonight, we are united around the most progressive platform in   history,” Ellison said. ’ ’   ”That’’s the platform that we can make the law of the land if we   stand together, if we work together, and if we vote together on   November 8,” he added. ’ ”   But that didn’t seem to placate some Sanders delegates and   grassroots supporters as Hillary Clinton moved toward accepting   the Democratic presidential nomination this week at the   convention. ” ”   Many of the senator’s delegates in the hall were still incensed   that the party platform refused to adopt official language   opposing the   Partnership, a multinational trade   deal supported by the Obama administration but opposed by many in   both parties for its potential effects on American manufacturing   and jobs. ” ’   When the Democratic Rules Committee took its vote early in the   evening, many Sanders supporters booed the platform, voting ”nay”   when it was put up for a   voice vote. ’ ’   Chris, an alternate delegate for Sanders, told Business Insider   it was ”a darned shame” that Democrats weren’’t more vocally   opposing TPP. ’ ’   ”They completely ignored it. We had signs: ’’No TPP. ’’ Elijah   completely ignored it. And a lot of people felt slighted from it,   and a lot of people felt hurt and afraid,” he said, referring to   Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland. ’ ’  ’ ’   Sanders supporters were also not impressed by a slick video about   the party platform that played on the Jumbotron, highlighting the   leftward tilt of the platform. ’ ’   Dean Vanderstone, a Sanders delegate from Michigan, told Business   Insider that while he was pleased with some of the changes in the   platform he thought the whole convention was ”a farce.” ’ ’   ”It wasn’’t as smooth and clean and kumbaya as you heard from the   speakers,” Vanderstone said of the platform drafting committee,   noting his discussions with Sanders supporters on the rules and   drafting committees. ”There was a lot of dissension.” ’ ’   Still, as the Clinton campaign scrambled to placate delegates,   moving Sanders into a   speaking slot on Monday night,   many were more hopeful about party unity going forward. ’ ’   ”There’’s a lot of great energy. Sen. Sanders has been fantastic   about helping to unify the party,” Secretary of Housing and Urban   Development Julian Castro told Business Insider, noting that he   was speaking in his personal capacity as a Clinton supporter.   ”I’’m confident that he’’ll do it tonight. And I’’m confident in   November we’’ll have an overwhelming Democratic turnout to defeat   Donald Trump.” ’ ’   He added: ”Bernie provided a tremendous positive voice for   change. And Hillary has embraced so much of the policy positions   and the spirit of Bernie’’s campaign. So the ground is set for us   to move forward as a united Democratic Party.” ’ ’   Sanders ended the night with a strong call for unity  with that     speech, closing out the night with a forceful   endorsement of Clinton. ’ ’   Sanders said: ”Hillary Clinton will make an outstanding   president, and I am proud to stand with her here tonight.” ’