’  ’ ’   John Crestani was sitting on a beach in Thailand, poor and lost   in his life when he opened a book that helped transform him from   a job drifter to a successful internet entrepreneur. ’ ’   It was 2009 and Crestani, then 21, had fled to Thailand after   dropping out of college. He was bumming around the country on a   small loan from his family and trying to “find” himself. To that   end, he brought along spiritual works like The Bible and the   Bhagavad Gita (Hindu scripture). But his saving grace turned out   to be a business book: The   Workweek by Tim Ferriss, the     manual for breaking free of the    by   building an online business. ’ ’   Ferriss’ key tenet in the book is to stop trading time for money   and build businesses that can, eventually, operate almost   entirely on their own after you set them up: passive income. ’ ’   “I was at a point in my life where I had very little direction,   didn’t know where I was going, and had this void,” says Crestani.   “I thought ‘This sounds freaking awesome and I want to do it. ’” ’ ’   And he did. Crestani used his own hustle and Ferriss’ tips to   build an affiliate marketing network that currently generates   $250, 000 to $500, 000 per month, enables him to travel the world,   and scales  . ’ ’   While plenty of people aspire to join other followers of Tim   Ferriss’ lifestyle design, Crestani is its high prophet. But he   didn’t get there overnight. ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ’   It took Crestani years of false starts and experimentation before   he finally hit upon a winning, profitable business. ’ ’   His first shot at entrepreneurship was selling products on eBay.   That venture brought him $1, 000 to $2, 000 per month, and a call   from PayPal’s security team. There was a problem with the   business model: Crestani was selling products PayPal didn’t   approve of. His PayPal account was shut down and that business   shuttered. ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ’   So he   in school and attempted to strike it rich   catering to the needs of his fellow students. Exposed to   computers before he reached double digits, Crestani used his   technical   to acquire the test answers to every online   course for every major from his university ’u200a —   ’u200aand he used those   answers just as you might expect. ’ ’  ’ ’   “I had all the answers, and sold that knowledge,” he explains.   “It was a weird feeling. I never realized a PDF file could be so   valuable. It was my first experience of trading knowledge for   money,” says Crestani. ’ ’   The result was his first $1, 000 day. But the celebration (and the   cash flow) didn’t last. Crestani was suspended when the school   suspected he acquired the test answers through   illicit means. ’ ’   Despite the failures, Crestani never lost sight of the ultimate   goal. “The   Workweek kept hustle on my mind. It planted the   seed, the idea that you don’t need to trade time for money. ” ’ ’   Ironically, he was just around the corner from the success the   book preaches. All it would take was Crestani getting fired from   a    job. ’ ’   At    Crestani got a “real job” working for a   marketing firm in Los Angeles. The firm specialized in      advertising on search engines. Crestani taught   himself the trade and was soon running more than 20 client   accounts, drafting compelling ads, and smart bidding strategies   to drive sales. ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ’   He got so good at paid advertising that he multiplied a client’s   business by 40X. His firm’s boss was bringing in more than   $110, 000 per month of extra business from the account. And   Crestani was now an online advertising star within the company. ’ ’   So he did what any   professional would do: he   politely asked for a raise. “My boss looked at me across the   table when I asked for the raise and said, ‘Or what? ’” recalls   Crestani. ’ ’   Instead of appreciating his value to the company, his boss   taunted him and told him to get back to work. Crestani was   flabbergasted. ’ ’   Crestani mentally checked out of the job from that point on and   eventually got fired. But he’d been hustling on the side to get   clients for himself to keep him afloat while he pursued the real   dream: build a    business where he’d never   have a boss again. ’ ’  ’ ’   Crestani had shown he was a pro at online advertising. He knew he   wanted to travel the world. And he desired independence from the   traditional shackles of corporate life. ’ ’   He hit upon the idea of promoting products developed by other   companies, rather than spending massive amounts of time and money   creating and promoting his own. He learned that homeopathic   products through a select set of providers gave him the greatest   margins, so he deployed his advertising knowledge to generate   sales for these wares. ’ ’   Every customer Crestani convinces to buy generates a significant   cut for his company. In one example, he says he receives $40 for   every sale of a $90 product. Crestani’s firm Nutryst also   recruits and teaches other affiliates to sell these products for   them, creating a network effect that generates massive revenue   well into the six figures every month. ’ ’ ’ ’     ’ ’   But his secret sauce is canning and cloning himself: he     the ad campaigns he creates    (his   present focus is on Facebook advertising) on his laptop and sends   it to his team so they can duplicate his results. ’ ’   That’s been a huge piece to Crestani’s success. “Every     ad campaign I launch, I record myself obsessively   on my computer in the creation process. I pass the modules along   to my team and make sure they can do a job just as good as I   can. ” ’ ’   The result is a business that scales whenever he needs it to. All   Crestani and his team of ten need to do is up their ad spend in   the right areas and watch profits swell accordingly. ’ ’   That passion and the profits it generates allow him to travel the   world at will. He’s worked extremely hard to develop a lifestyle   that isn’t beholden to bosses or showing up in an office. And the   rewards, while lucrative, are about way more than money. ’ ’ ’ ’   Crestani says he was a loner growing up, obsessed with computer   games and ignorant of what things like world travel could offer.   Now, the    freshly married millionaire is planning his   next global adventure while propelling his firm to even greater   heights. ’ ’   “I wanted to open myself up to new experiences,” he says of his   leap into entrepreneurship. ’ ’   “Sitting in my room playing Diablo II didn’t seem like a good   future. So I changed it. ” ’