’  ’ ’   National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden took to   Twitter on Monday to comment on the recent hack into Democratic   National Committee email inboxes, which resulted in WikiLeaks   publishing 20, 000 emails last week. ’ ’   Snowden said Russia, which is widely suspected to be behind the   hack, ”should be condemned” if it is indeed responsible. He   suggested that evidence of such an attack ”certainly exists” at   the NSA but has been kept under wraps out of fear of divulging   too much information about its surveillance techniques and   capabilities. ’ ”   The hack exposed emails from top DNC staffers that appeared to   undermine Bernie Sanders’ candidacy in favor of Hillary   Clinton’s. ” ”   The leaks have raised fears of possible Russian interference in a   US presidential election, or even collaboration with Donald   Trump’s campaign  —   particularly since Trump and Russian President   Vladimir Putin have  for one another. ” ’   The Kremlin on Tuesday  that it hacked the DNC and called the   allegations ”absurd,” Reuters reported. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIf Russia hacked the  they should be condemned for it. But during the  hack, the FBI presented evidence.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tEven if the attackers try to obfuscate origin,  makes following exfiltrated data easy. I did this personally against Chinese ops. ’t’t’ ”   Cybersecurity experts generally agree with Snowden’s assessment   of the NSA  —   they say the agency likely does possess evidence of   any Russian involvement, but there are numerous reasons for the   government to keep that knowledge secret. ” ’   ”It is actually very reasonable to conclude that the NSA does   know the answer to this question without any real ambiguity,”   Alex McGeorge, head of threat intelligence at the     cybersecurity firm Immunity Inc. told Business Insider. ’ ’   The NSA data analysis program XKeyscore, which Snowden revealed   in 2013, is capable of intercepting communications at a variety   of points and correlating sources, and would probably be capable   of determining the attacker, McGeorge said. ’ ’   ”It’’s not easy, but that’’s part of why they’’re so good at their   job,” he said. ’ ”   Greg Martin  —   who founded the cybersecurity startup Jask and is a   former adviser to the FBI, Secret Service, and NASA  —   agreed that   the US intelligence community has substantial technical   capabilities that it hasn’t shared with the public. ” ’   ”More than likely, it is able to trace back the DNC breach to the   true actor behind it,” he told Business Insider in an email. ’ ”   But where the experts diverge from Snowden is with the   government’s response to the hack  —   Snowden argued that since   XKeyscore is now public, there’s little reason to keep evidence   of a Russian cyberattack secret. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe aversion to sharing  evidence is fear of revealing ”sources and methods” of intel collection, but  is now publicly known. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTo summarize: the US Intel Community should modernize their position on disclosure. Defensive capabilities should be aggressively public. ’t’t’ ”   That would be a mistake, McGeorge said. The public knows that   programs like XKeyscore exist and what types of data they   collect, but not precisely how they work. The NSA likely wouldn’t   be able to reveal evidence of Russian involvement without also   disclosing the specifics of its surveillance capabilities. ” ’   ”The NSA could say, ’’Yes we know the Russians did it. ’’ Would that   be enough to satisfy the public? Or would they have to somehow   say how they made that determination?” McGeorge said. ”That is   the key point that would give the Russians more than we perhaps   want.” ’ ’   But the significance of the breach may warrant a more forceful   response than the government has displayed so far, Martin said.   Interfering in a US presidential election was a bold move that   ”crossed the line” and could embolden the Russians in the future. ’ ’   ”At a minimum, the US government should have ’’named and shamed’’   Russia and issued a strong diplomatic rebuke,” Martin said. ”By   not doing so, we’’re setting a dangerous precedent for both us and   our allies.” ’