’  ’ ’   It is often easy to dismiss viral charity campaigns as   ”slacktivism,” which lacks in   impact (we never did    after all) but a breakthrough discovery   bankrolled by 2014’’s ALS Ice Bucket Challenge may give the lie to   that cynicism. ’ ’   The Ice Bucket Challenge was a phenomenon in the summer of 2014   in which people dunked a bucket of ice water over their heads to   solicit donations before nominating others to do the same. ’ ’   Scores of celebrities including Mark Zuckerberg,  Charlie Sheen,    and hundreds more made videos, but the campaign was   criticised by some. ’ ’ wrote that   ”for most of the people posting ice bucket videos of themselves   on Facebook, Vine, and Instagram, the charity part remains a   postscript,” while  called it   ”problematic in almost every way,” going on to say: ”Most of its   participants . .. didn’’t mention the disease at all. The chance to   jump on the latest trend was an end in itself. In fact, the   challenge’’s structure seems almost inherently offensive to those   touched by ALS.” ’ ’   But the proof of the pudding was in the eating: The campaign   raised more than $100 million in a   period and was able to   fully fund numerous research projects. ’ ’ ’ ”   One of these was Project MinE, a large   initiative   funded by the ALS Association through Ice Bucket Challenge   donations, as well as donations from the organization’s Georgia   and New York chapters. The project’s researchers announced on   Monday that they had identified a new gene associated with the   disease, which experts say could lead to new treatment   possibilities. ” ”   Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known ALS or Lou Gehrig’s   Disease, is a neurological disorder in which the motor neurons   that control muscle function slowly die. The disease can be   sporadic or inherited, and in either case there is no cure. ” ’   ”It’’s very exciting because it shows everyone who contributed to   the Ice Bucket Challenge that their donation had an impact on the   research,” said Brian Frederick, the executive vice president of   communications and development at the ALS Association. ”The work   that Project MinE is doing is really important, and the discovery   of this new gene will help us better understand ALS.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The newly discovered gene, NEK1, is associated with only 3% of   ALS cases, but it is present in both inherited and sporadic forms   of the disease, which researchers say gives them a new target for   the development of possible treatments. ’ ’   Project MinE has been working to sequence the genomes of 15, 000   people with the disease, and the discovery, which was described   in a paper published Monday in the journal Nature Genetics,   involved more than 80 researchers in 11 countries. ’ ’   The discovery was significant, Frederick said, ”because it helps   us understand what’’s triggering this and can help us better find   a treatment,” though he added that ”it’’s still very early in our   understanding of this particular gene, and we still have a ways   to go with understanding ALS generally.” ’