’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton accepted the Democratic nomination for president   Thursday night, becoming the first woman in American history to   accept the presidential nomination of a major political party and   laying out a case for American voters to elect her in November. ’ ’   During her speech to the Democratic National Convention in   Philadelphia, she said the country was at ”a moment of   reckoning,” presenting herself as the responsible choice for   president instead of Republican nominee Donald Trump. ’ ’   Clinton cited President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’’s     remark in a rebuke of Trump’’s platform, saying ”the only thing we   have to fear is fear itself.” ’ ’   She later took a shot at one of Trump’’s comments from the   Republican convention in Cleveland last week by telling the   audience they shouldn’’t ”believe anyone who says, ’’I alone can   fix it. ’’” ’ ’   She would later rip his lengthy speech, saying ”he spoke for     minutes  —   and I do mean odd,” drawing laughs and cheers   from her supporters in Philadelphia. ’ ’   The former secretary of state, in wrapping up her     convention, acknowledged the gravity of the moment. She said the   US must ”keep going until every one of the 161 million women and   girls across America has the opportunity she deserves to have.” ’ ’   ”But, even more important than the history we make tonight is the   history we will write together in the years ahead,” she   continued. ’ ’  ’ ’   Clinton praised the work of President Barack Obama, saying the US   was ”stronger” because of his leadership. She also thanked Sen.   Bernie Sanders of Vermont, her main opponent in the Democratic   primaries, for having ”inspired millions of Americans.” ’ ’   The Democratic nominee also spent a good portion of her speech   comparing the founding of the nation to the choice in 2016   between her and Trump. ’ ’   She said her primary goal as president would be to create jobs   with rising wages. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   And she made the case that she had the proper temperament for the   Oval Office while Trump could not be trusted. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ can’’t even handle the      of a presidential campaign,” she said. ”He loses his cool at the   slightest provocation. When he’’s gotten a tough question from a   reporter. When he’’s challenged in a debate. When he sees a   protester at a rally. Imagine him in the Oval Office facing a   real crisis. A man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can   trust with nuclear weapons.” ’ ”   Clinton went directly after one of Trump’s biggest claims against   her  —   that she would look to repeal the Second Amendment and take   away guns from citizens. ” ’   ”I’’m not here to take away your guns,” she said. ”I just don’’t   want you to be shot by someone who shouldn’’t have a gun in the   first place.” ’ ’   Finally, in some of her sharpest criticism of Trump, she said   there was no other version of the Republican nominee  —   ”this is   it.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”For the past year, many people made the mistake of laughing off    comments  —   excusing him as an   entertainer just putting on a show,” she said. ”They think he   couldn’’t possibly mean all the horrible things he says  —   like   when he called women ’’pigs. ’’ Or said that an American judge   couldn’’t be fair because of his Mexican heritage. Or when he   mocks and mimics a reporter with a disability. ’ ’   ”Or insults prisoners of war like   —   a   true hero and patriot who deserves our respect,” she continued.   ”At first, I admit, I couldn’’t believe he meant it either. It was   just too hard to fathom that someone who wants to lead our nation   could say those things, could be like that. But here’’s the sad   truth: There is no other . This is it.” ’ ’   Clinton said ”in the end” the election came down to something   Trump didn’’t understand: ”that America is great  —   because America   is good.” ’ ’   Trump, she said, is not ”offering real change.” ’ ’   ”He’’s offering empty promises,” she said. ”What are we offering?   A bold agenda to improve the lives of people across our country  —     to keep you safe, to get you good jobs, and to give your kids the   opportunities they deserve. The choice is clear.” ’ ’ ’