’  ’ ’   A new report investigating the fate of Malaysia Airlines Flight   MH370 suggests the plane was under the control of a pilot when it   crashed into the ocean. ’ ’   In an article published in  reporter Ross Coulthart lays   out the new evidence, first broadcast on the Channel Nine     program ”60 Minutes” on Sunday night. ’ ”   He says Peter Foley, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau’s   program director of the operational search for MH370, has   acknowledged that the markings on the wreckage are consistent   with what you would expect from a plane descending into land. ” ’   ”There is a possibility   …     somebody (was) in control at the end   and we are actively looking for evidence to support that,” Foley   said. ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s a huge development in what has become one of the greatest   mysteries in the history of aviation. Investigators previously   thought the plane was uncontrolled at the end of its journey. ” ”   The theory is also supported by Larry Vance, a former chief    investigator for the Canadian Transportation Safety Board who is   one of the world’s most  experienced   investigators. ” ”   The damage seen on wreckage from the plane could be caused only   by prolonged contact with water surface at high speed, Vance   believes, indicating a scenario involving the plane crashing into   the sea under the pilot’s control. ” ’   Vance says changes to the plane’’s flight path and specific damage   sustained on its flaperon, which was  suggests ”no other theory that fits.” ’ ’   ”You cannot get the flaperon to extend any other way than if   somebody extended it,” he said. ”Somebody was flying the   airplane at the end of its flight.” ’ ’   Vance also says the lack of small floating debris suggests the   plane hit the sea at a much slower, smoother motion than you   would expect from an    aircraft. ’ ’  ’ ’   The new ”rogue pilot” theory  raises further doubts over  whether   MH370 is within the search area and how much the Malaysian   government actually knows. ’ ’   In a confidential Malaysian report, obtained by ”60 Minutes,” the   jet’’s captain, Zahari Ahmed Shah, had plotted a route into the   southern Indian Ocean on a flight simulator at his home but later   deleted this evidence off his computer. Though the Malaysian   government denied the existence of the report, Foley conceded   that it was real. ’ ’   Last month New York magazine reported a similar discovery, saying   Shah had ”conducted a simulated flight deep into the remote   southern Indian Ocean less than a month before the plane vanished   under uncannily similar circumstances.” ’ ’   The flaperon in question has still not been examined by Malaysian   authorities as it remains in possession of the French government. ’ ’   It is reported that French judicial investigators did not trust   Malaysia to fairly investigate the evidence. ’ ’ has more. ’