”The  team writes about stuff we think you’ll like. Business Insider has affiliate partnerships so we may get a share of the revenue from your purchase.” ’’ ”Investing for the future is something everyone should be doing, whether for retirement or a rainy day fund. In today’s low interest rate environment, you can’t leave your money in a basic savings account or a CD and expect much growth. But how do you figure out what to do with your money if you did not major in business in college? And if you don’t have the money to pay someone to manage your money? That’s where   like  come into play. ” ’Betterment is a popular financial   with roughly $4 billion under management. It is an automated investment platform that uses MPT (Modern Portfolio Theory) to create a diversified portfolio that aims to minimize risks while outperforming the market over the long run.’ ”Its main purpose is it to manage your savings automatically  —   so that you don’t have to. Rather than just saving your money in a bank CD, which can lose money against inflation, you are passively investing (i. e. not paying an advisor to actively manage your funds or study the stock market yourself). Investing on your own requires time and knowledge that not everyone has. Meanwhile, hiring a professional account manager is expensive; the  whereas Betterment’s is between 0. . 35%. That’s about 10% of the average fee for the top tier Betterment account.” ’The fee you pay Betterment is determined by how much you have invested with them, and is on a sliding scale that encourages continual investment: ’ ’Rather than paying more the more you save, you end up paying less.’ ’investinginvestmentdiversificationimportant’ ”If you’re interested in starting an account, . ” ”Betterment invests in  which are   investment products that pool together many small investors’ money to buy shares or bonds of multiple companies. ETFs trade on the world’s public markets just like traditional stocks. They also have lower transaction costs than buying individual shares from typical brokers or electronic platforms.” ’You, the user, can decide the level of risk you want by allocating your investment between different ETFs (in both stock funds or bond funds). ’ ”The overarching theme of Betterment’s asset allocation is providing you with a diverse, and therefore, theoretically safer portfolio that should earn you money over the long term.” ”If you’re interested in starting a Betterment account, . ” ”Betterment is straightforward to set up and if you choose automatic deposits, you can have an investing program working for you that’s completely  .” ’Lastly, Betterment has a $0 account minimum. And  to begin planning your saving strategy.’ ”If you’re interested in starting a Betterment account, . ” ”Betterment can be for a variety of people. It’s helpful for novice financial investors who want to invest, but don’t have the knowledge to do it on their own, or the funds to pay for a professional manager. Specifically, . Because Betterment’s management fees are low, even at a high level, it is also a useful resource for those looking to dodge the more expensive fees that ” ’ While retirement may seem far away, the time to save for it is right now.’ ’The Insider Picks team writes about stuff we. ..’