’  ’ ’   When was the last time you posted a photo to Instagram? ’ ”   For me, the last photo on the Facebook social network is from   June 11. To be honest, I’ve posted photos since then, but I   deleted them because they weren’t getting enough likes. ” ”   Nothing’s sadder than an Instagram post with fewer than 10 likes. ” ”   Instagram clearly thinks this is a problem, and that’s why,   according to CEO Kevin Systrom, it introduced a new feature on   Tuesday . ” ”   The feature appears to be a blatant clone of Snapchat Live   Stories  —   there aren’t any likes or comments, and Instagram   Stories photos disappear after 24 hours. Like Snapchat, the   feature includes fun filters, and it allows you to add text to   your photos and draw on them. ” ’   ”We need to have a place where you feel free to post whatever you   want without the nagging fear of did someone like that or not?”   Systrom told . ’ ’   He’’s pointing out a huge problem that the entire social media   industry is facing, including Instagram’’s parent company,   Facebook: People don’’t like to be judged when sharing on social   media  —   and a ”like” count is basically quantified judgment. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Journal coverage has a fascinating fact from an internal   Instagram survey: Teens delete about half of the photos in their   Instagram feeds. ’ ’   Based on my personal experience, that’’s about right, and I’’m   hardly a teen. Even Systrom, also not a teen, concedes that   ”deletions are fairly high” on the social network. ’ ”   That’s an example of the size of the niche that Snapchat rode to    which is people who don’t   necessarily want to be judged every time they post a photo. ” ’   And although Facebook and its leaders still essentially  that Snapchat is its primary competitor,   this new feature is exactly what a company would do if it were   worried. ’ ’   Essentially, by releasing this new feature, Instagram is   confirming that ”ephemeral sharing,” or photos that go away, is   here to stay. Right now, Snapchat owns that market, and Instagram   needs it. ’ ’   Even Facebook, which is a much larger social network than   Snapchat or Instagram, is facing trouble with its core social   product.  suggested that Facebook has   measured in an internal survey a 21% decline in ”original   sharing”  —   which many attributed to the rise of private networks   like Snapchat. ’ ’   The company has already moved away from showing like counts on   Instagram videos, instead showing the view count, which is   usually a more impressive number. ’ ’   But an entire Snapchat clone built into Instagram is a much more   drastic move, requiring countless hours of engineering time and a   massive publicity push, and it ultimately requires Instagram to   retrain its users how to use its app, which is risky. It makes   you wonder what other sharing trends Instagram and Facebook are   seeing in their internal surveys. ’