’  ’ ’   An American woman was killed and five other people were injured   in a knife attack in central London late Wednesday night. ’ ’   The police were called to Russell Square at about 10:30 p. m.   local time on reports of a man attacking people with a knife, the   Metropolitan Police said. ’ ’   The police arrested a man identified as a Norwegian national of   Somali origin, and authorities believe the attack was triggered   by   issues, Metropolitan Police A ’ ’   After interviewing the suspect, his family, and witnesses,   searching his home, and liaising with intelligence services, the   police had not found evidence that the man was radicalised or   that the attack was motivated by terrorism. ’ ’   The police believe the victims were chosen at random. One   American woman believed to be in her 60s died at the scene from   her injuries. ’ ’   The people injured in the attack were of British, American,   Australian, and Israeli nationalities. Three of the injured   people have been discharged from the hospital, while two were   still being treated with injuries that were not  . ’ ’   The police used a Taser device to detain the    suspect   at the scene. The man was discharged from a London hospital on   Thursday morning and is in custody at a south London police   station. ’ ’   The investigation is moving very quickly and ”mental health   remains a substantial focus for our investigation,” Metropolitan   Police Commissioner Sir Bernard   said in statement   released late Thursday morning. ’ ’   ”I am proud that last night our specialist firearms officers were   on the scene in six minutes and, using only a Taser, detained the   subject,”   said. ”That demonstrates our commitment to   use force in a professional and proportionate way. Their swift   response undoubtedly helped to prevent more people from getting   injured.” ’ ’   Rowley added: ”As a precautionary measure, Londoners will wake up   this morning to notice an increased presence on the streets of   officers, including armed officers today. We would urge the   public to remain calm, alert, and vigilant.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Officers are continuing to interview witnesses as the   investigation progresses. ’ ’   The man reportedly did not shout anything while he carried out   the attack, according to a witness . ’ ’   A Spanish family who saw the attack said a man wearing black   shorts and a white   was running and, while hiding his face   with his arm, began stabbing people. ’ ’   The mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, urged Londoners to remain ”calm   and vigilant” and to report anything suspicious to the police,   adding, ”The safety of all Londoners is my number one priority   and my heart goes out to the victims of the incident in Russell   Square and their loved ones.” ’ ’   Russell Square, where the attack occurred, is less than a mile   away from the University of London and is about 2 miles from   Buckingham Palace. It is near the British Museum, an area   frequented by visitors and tourists. ’ ”   Russell Square is also the scene of the . The bombing occurred on   a Piccadilly Line underground train between Russell Square and   King’s Cross. Four suicide bombers attacked London on July 7,   2005, in what was one of the worst terrorist attacks on Britain,   killing 52 people and injuring hundreds. ” ’   The attack comes a day after the Metropolitan Police had   announced it would  to the streets of London amid concerns that a   terrorist attack might be imminent. ’ ’  ’ ’   Chief Sir Bernard    it would be ”foolish to ignore”   the slew of attacks that have hit Europe over the past few weeks:   ”It is important that we get officers out there with firearms to   respond where necessary.” ’ ’   A few days ago,  that an attack in   the UK similar to those that have hit other parts of Europe is a   case of ”when, not if.” ’ ’   Terrorist attacks have plagued Germany and France over the past   few weeks. Last month  after a man rammed a   refrigerated truck into crowds enjoying Bastille Day festivities,   and just last week  in a knife attack on a Catholic church in   Normandy. Both of those attacks were claimed by ISIS, the   terrorist group also known as the Islamic State, ISIL, or Daesh. ’