’  ’ ”   This wasn’t your average summer camp. ” ’   Earlier this week, Google cofounders Larry Page and Sergey Brin   hosted  with a   guest list   that included Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel, George Lucas, and   Pharrell. ’ ’   The Camp, in its third year, is a   conference full of   schmoozing that’’s been dubbed ”Davos on the sea” for bringing   together VIPs across tech, music, and fashion. ’ ’   This year’’s festivities included intellectual discussions,   relaxation, and sumptuous meals, including a dinner among the   ruins at the ”Valle dei Templi” or ”Valley of the Temples.” ’ ”   Here’s supermodel Karlie Kloss posing with Malala Yousafzai, who   spoke in front of attendees about education and women’s rights,   and Alicia Keys, who performed five songs after dinner on Monday: ” ’ ’ ”   Kloss celebrated her 24th birthday at the conference. Here she is   sitting next to designer Diane von Furstenberg at one the group’s   lunches: ” ’ ’ ’   The  played for about two hours that night too. ’ ’   Bandmate Fausto Savetteri told Business Insider that other guests   he saw included Spotify CEO Daniel Ek, Fiat Automobiles heir Lapo   Elkann, and Queen Rania of Jordan. ’ ’   ”Everything was beautiful and, of course, top secret until the   end,” he said. ’ ’ ’ ”   Guests stayed at the luxurious Verdura Resort. Here’s the Palm   Restaurant’s Bruce Bozzi posing with TV exec Brian Grazer and   Veronica Smiley, his wife, who is in marketing . .. ” ’ ’ ’   . .. and YouTube star Lilly Singh posing with actress Charlize   Theron. ’ ’ ’ ’   This  managed to get some pretty epic selfies, including   with Alphabet CEO Larry Page . .. ’ ’ ’ ”   . .. and the leader of Alphabet’s cash cow  —   Google CEO Sundar   Pichai. ” ’ ’ ’   If only he had snagged a shot with Sergey Brin to complete the   trifecta! ’ ’   Though he did track down Pharrell . .. ’ ’ ’ ’   . .. as well as Alicia Keys. ’ ’ ’ ”   Here’s George Lucas, looking suave: ” ’ ’ ’   On the second day of the conference, guests flocked to the   central square of the fishing town Sciacca to walk among the   traditional carnival floats: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’   The conference also featured wine tastings . .. ’ ’ ’ ’   . .. cheese tastings . .. ’ ’ ’ ’   . .. homemade pasta . .. ’ ’ ’ ’   . .. fireworks . .. ’ ’ ’ ’   . .. and more live music. ’ ’ ’ ”   This was Google’s third annual event. ” ’   Right after, . ’