’  ’ ”   Walmart’s   business has long been overshadowed by   Amazon’s. ” ”   On a    basis, it’s easy to understand why:   Walmart’s online sales were $13. 7 billion in 2015, compared to   Amazon’s $107 billion. ” ”   But if Walmart buys Jet. com,  it could become Amazon’s   worst nightmare. ” ”   Here’s why: ” ’   The retailer is far behind Amazon in terms of online sales, but   overall, the picture looks much different. ’ ”   Walmart’s revenue in 2015 was $482 billion, which is more than   four times Amazon’s revenue last year. ” ”   All that revenue for Walmart represents untapped potential for   online sales from customers who are currently shopping at   Walmart’s physical stores. ” ’  ’ ’   Walmart has more than 4. 500 stores in the US and 102 distribution   facilities. By comparison, Amazon has roughly  in   the US. ’ ’   For Walmart, ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We have always said that this is a major advantage for Walmart   over a player like Amazon in that Walmart can distribute products   far more cheaply and quickly, if it finds a way to fully   integrate stores into its systems,” Saunders wrote in a note to   clients. ’ ”   Jet. com is growing rapidly and  by offering cheaper   prices than the   giant. It’s only a year old and it has   already generated more than $1 billion in sales from more than 4   million shoppers, according to Euromonitor. ” ’  ’ ’   Jet. com is also quickly mastering fast and free shipping. ’ ’  ’ ’   While Walmart only recently began offering   delivery to   members of its ShippingPass program  —   which is meant to rival   Amazon Prime  —   Jet. com has figured out how to achieve     delivery for half of US households free of cost, according to   Euromonitor International. ’ ’   ”  will gain significantly from Jet’s logistics and   delivery expertise,” Michelle Malison, retail analyst for   Euromonitor. ”By strategically locating its distribution centers   and streamlining its logistics, Jet has doubled its     delivery (of its own   products) penetration rate from   25% to 50% of US households since launch, and is approaching 99%   of US households for   delivery. In select     regions such as New York City, Jet often is able to offer     delivery at no additional cost to both Jet and its   shoppers.” ’ ”     Walmart’s ShippingPass costs $49 a year, compared with the $99     for Amazon Prime. Meanwhile Jet. com’s   shipping is free     for all orders of at least $35.   ” ’     Without ShippingPass, Walmart customers have the option to     choose between ”rush”   shipping, which can cost at least     $14 an item, or ”expedited,” ”standard,” and ”value” options,     which take two to seven days and cost about $5 to $8. Walmart     offers free pickup at stores.   ’