Mike Dunleavy, a former N. B. A. coach, was looking to get back into coaching in March 2015 when he heard that St. John’s had parted ways with Steve Lavin. Five years removed from his last job on a bench, he reached out to an old friend, Chris Mullin, about the opening, to see if Mullin would vouch for him as a reference. “When the St. John’s job came open, I had some other people come approach me,” Dunleavy said Thursday. “A bunch of Wall Street guys that I knew said: ‘Hey, look, the St. John’s job is open. Would you have an interest?’ “I said, ‘Yeah, I’d love the St. John’s job.’ So I called Chris and I left him a message. I said: ‘Hey, Chris, I see that the St. John’s job just came open, and I’m wondering if you would help champion me for the job if, in fact, you don’t want it.’ I just threw it out there. I really didn’t think it was something he wanted, but I really didn’t know. And literally the next day, he was named the coach, so we never even talked. ” Dunleavy, 62, who ended up at Tulane, and Mullin, 53, renewed their acquaintance Friday night when St. John’s ( ) beat Tulane ( )   in New Orleans. Both teams had   losing streaks entering the game. Even though Dunleavy is nine years older than Mullin, the men have much in common. Both are from Brooklyn and played in the N. B. A. Both went on to become Western Conference executives in the N. B. A. Dunleavy as the Los Angeles Clippers’ general manager and Mullin in the front offices of the Golden State Warriors and the Sacramento Kings. Both were eventually hired to restore prominence to a college program. And both are now struggling for wins. Dunleavy, who spent more than two decades as an N. B. A. coach, has coached only eight games in college, and he acknowledged that he was still getting his feet under him while trying to establish a culture and recruit effectively. Mullin, who was   in his first season as the St. John’s coach, is off to another rough start this season. The most recent indignity? A   loss Tuesday to a Delaware State team that had not beaten a Division I opponent this season. Mullin was   as a player at St. John’s. His next defeat, will be his 30th as the program’s coach. “No one likes to lose and play terrible,” Mullin said after a loss to Old Dominion on Saturday, “but usually when you look back, that is what turns a team into a team. ” Dunleavy said: “When it comes down to it, from being an N. B. A. general manager, it takes time to build a team. It’s a little bit different. Instead of in the N. B. A. having salary caps or making trades, college is about recruiting and its number of scholarships available per year, and it depends on how long it takes to build a team. ” Perhaps not surprisingly, given their coaches’ roots, Tulane and St. John’s are looking to build their teams  —   at least in part  —   via an infusion of talent from the New York area. Dunleavy has scored two major steals by winning commitments from the    Bul Ajang and the   Buay Koka of the Patrick School in Hillside, N. J. which produced the N. B. A. players Kyrie Irving and Michael   when it was St. Patrick High School. At St. John’s, Mullin is pursuing several highly regarded, but younger, prospects from the region. Dunleavy and Mullin are also part of a larger trend in which colleges seek out coaches with N. B. A. experience. The former Dallas Mavericks and Nets coach Avery Johnson is in his second year at Alabama. Eric Musselman, who had jobs with six N. B. A. franchises, is in his second season at Nevada, and the former   guard Mark Price is in his second season at North  . The results have been mixed. Johnson took Alabama to the National Invitation Tournament in his first year and is   this season. He also has the   recruiting class in the nation for 2017, according to Scout. com. Under Musselman, Nevada won the College Basketball Invitational, a   postseason tournament, last season. And while Price and Charlotte were   a year ago, they are off to a   start now. Mullin and Dunleavy, meanwhile, are, for the moment, struggling to find their footing. “We’re both from Brooklyn, we both grew up in the playgrounds there, we’re both really competitive guys,” Dunleavy said. “We both probably played the game, not professionally, but a lot longer than most people. I think he probably still plays. My knee is not good enough to allow me to play, but I go out and shoot, fool around because I just love it. “But any time anybody is losing when you’re competitive, it’s not easy. But you have to understand the reality of your situation, and understand how you can build it and you make progress. And you work at it every day and try to improve your players and figure out the best way to have an edge to recruit and get better players. ”