’  ’ ”   It’s rare that a long, technical paper in a biology journal   turns out to be a  . But it happens. ” ”   A team of researchers published a  of the science of why we age this week in the   journal Cell. It ties together that   field’s   confusing, sometimes contradictory findings into a single   coherent whole and offers the most complete explanation   I’ve seen anywhere as to why human beings get old, as well as   what we can do to slow the aging process. ” ’   As a science writer  —   and reader  —   used to  and  claims about staving off old age, I   found this paper genuinely difficult to put down. ’ ’   Here are some of its most important takeaways. ’ ’   All told, the authors identified nine key hallmarks of aging   on your metabolism. ’ ”   Let’s be careful about our terms here: Your metabolism isn’t some   organ or group of organs in your body that determines how many   sugary foods you can eat before noticing a bulge on your   waistline. Rather, it’s the billions of actions all of your cells   take every second of every day to convert fuel into energy and   put together the complex compounds necessary for your body to   function. ” ’   As you get old, your metabolism becomes less efficient. Your DNA   becomes more damaged, introducing errors and inefficiency to how   your cells function. Your body’’s process for destroying and   eliminating old, exhausted cells (”autophagy”) slows down, which   has a number of negative effects on your  . And all the   stress your body has experienced over the course of your lifetime   makes it less able to perform the daily   tasks   necessary for health. ’ ’  ’ ”   If aging is a disease of the metabolism, it shouldn’t surprise   anyone that the fuel you put into your body can have a serious   impact on your longevity. ” ”   There’s a strong body of evidence to suggest that what’s known as   a  diet   can extend your life. ” ”   That’s shorthand for a diet high in healthy fats like olive oil,   vegetables, whole grains, nuts, and fish  —   and with little   red meat or sugar. They make a point of noting that replacing   proteins with healthy complex carbohydrates seems to offer   serious benefits to longevity. ” ’   Also helpful: Calorie restriction. In part, this practice simply   refers to not overeating. But perhaps just as important is   building periods of fasting into your routine  —   evidence suggests   that doing this for just several hours a day might have a   real benefit for some people. ’ ’   Finally, and this should surprise no one, regularly exercise   appears to help slow down all nine of the major hallmarks of   aging identified in the paper.  ’ ’   While improvements in healthcare and public safety have created   drastic improvements in lifespans in the ”Western” world, there’’s   still a lot to worry about. ’ ’   A   diet heavy in sugar, animal proteins from red   meat, and unhealthy fats like margarine stresses our   metabolisms and can increase the risks of obesity. Many   Americans fail to consume nutritious vegetables, fibers, and   whole grains. And most of us  and spend . ’ ’   The problem is serious enough, the study authors write, that they   end the paper with a call to action,   ostensibly meant to encourage people to adopt   healthier lifestyles. ’ ’   The most significant part of this paper is that it brings   together the dozens of disparate studies on aging, identifying   and highlighting both some of the common threads in the science   and some of the major gaps in our knowledge. ’ ’   One of the biggest problems with aging research that the paper   touches on, for example, is the fact that only a fraction of all   of our ”aging science” comes from studies of   people. Instead, the vast majority of that research is done in   lab animals like  and . There’’s   strong evidence for the positive impacts of interventions   like caloric restriction on longevity in these animals, but the   details are still fuzzy. ’ ”   Hopefully, as more public health and biology research turns   toward the question of aging, we’ll get better at helping people   across geographies and social classes live more healthily into   their old age. ”