’  ’ ’  ’ ’ works   eight hours a day, three days a week. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Ascher works from home, and she’s arranged her work with clients   into three days a week. She credits her ability to accomplish   everything within an abbreviated schedule to a few different   factors:  ” ’   First, she outsourced the tasks she can’’t or doesn’’t like   to handle. Ascher employed a virtual assistant and   offloaded the management of her Facebook ads. ”When I was   doing that, it was the bane of my existence,” she said. ”I   realized if I really dislike it this much, I’’m not going to get   the results of someone who enjoys it. This way, I can focus on   what I do best: working with my clients and creating.” ’ ’   Also, she doesn’’t wait around for perfection.   ”It’’s always just been a natural inclination for me to do a good   job, but not sit on it until it’’s perfect, which is often a means   of procrastination,” she said. ”I would rather get something good   out there than have a project sitting on the sidelines because   it’’s not perfect.” ’ ’   And lastly, she thinks in linear, strategic terms about   what she needs to get done. ”helps me to structure my week and plan it out. I   identify everything I want to accomplish, then work back from   there. I reverse engineer it and plug these little pieces into my     work week.” ’ ’   The best advice she can offer someone looking to build their own   business that best fits their life, she said, is that ”the   journey has to align with the destination. This is something I   didn’’t get for so long. In the past, I’’ve put so much pressure on   myself it would be crippling.” ’ ’   After the birth of her now    daughter, she realized she   was thinking about it all wrong. ”I realized I want every minute   of this business to feel enjoyable, not just down the road. And   when I embraced that, things started to fall into place. More   opportunities came, and it felt so much more natural to be living   a lifestyle I wanted to be living while building my business,   instead of waiting for my business to allow me to live that   lifestyle.” ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Smart Investor and never miss an update!’