’  ’ ’   Clarissa Ward, a CNN correspondent who has reported on wars for   more than a decade, described the ”hell” that is Syria in   powerful  earlier this month. ’ ’   Ward said that in all of her experience covering war, she has   ”never seen anything on the scale of Aleppo,” a Syrian city that   was . ’ ’   Driving into Aleppo, Ward was ”blown away by the scale of the   destruction,” she said. ’ ’   ”You heard Dr. [Samer] Attar use the words ’’apocalyptic   wasteland,’’” Ward continued, referring to a doctor with the   Syrian American Medical Society Foundation, who also   testified. ”Those are the words I wrote down and it sounds   like hyperbole, but it is not.” ’ ’   Syria seemed like an ”apocalyptic wasteland” even in 2012, only   one year into the civil war between President Bashar Assad,   rebels fighting his regime, and terrorist groups. ’ ’   ”The shelling was relentless, there were snipers everywhere, and   I just remember the feeling of exhaustion from being so petrified   all the time,” Ward said. ”[A]gain I find myself using the same   language that we’’ve heard from the doctors  —   this is actually   hell. This is what hell feels like.” ’ ’  ’ ’   She described the journey down a road into eastern Aleppo. ’ ’   ”When you’’re driving along it, you have to drive at absolute top   speed because it’’s flanked by enemy positions on either side and   the only thing you can see  —   they built these little berms of   earth to try to protect and it feels like such a feeble, futile   gesture  —   these little berms of earth to protect cars going along   from the full force of the artillery and the air power that’’s   coming its way,” Ward said. ’ ’   ”And you can see these cars, all along the road, that have just   been blown up and left, abandoned,” she said. ’ ’   The landscape had worsened drastically during several more years   of war. Ward described what she saw: ’ ’   Despite the constant fighting, some choose to stay in Aleppo   rather than flee. ’ ’   ”They made a decision a long time ago that they would rather die   in dignity in their homes than leave,” she said. ’ ’   Ward also talked about how the war has gotten only worse since   Russia entered the fray last year, running airstrikes in support   of the Assad regime while it claims to be fighting terrorism. ’ ’   Syrians say that Russian airstrikes have hit hospitals filled   with innocent civilians, killing men, women, and children. ’ ’ ’