’  ’ ’   The humans are losing, the computers are winning, and the hedge   fund game is changing. ’ ’   The hot topic in hedge fund land right now is the rise of the     investing, or funds that use complex mathematical   models to bet on markets. ’ ’   It seems to be the trend of the day at a time when many   traditional hedge funds are getting crushed. And some indicators   show that they are taking in investor money from other   strategies. ’ ”   A Goldman Sachs report obtained by Business Insider, for   instance, says that   value strategies are seeing   increased interest from investors. One in five     investors noted they were looking for systematic strategies in   the second quarter, the report said. That’s a big increase from a   year ago, when only 13% of investors were interested. ” ’   And in a report out earlier this month, Barclays found that   investors in hedge funds are most interested in     funds and quant equity funds right now. ’ ’   CTAs, or commodity trading advisers, are predominantly     and trade in managed futures  —   futures contracts,   commodity options and the like. Quant equity funds use   quantitative data to pick stocks. ’ ’   The report surveyed 340 investors managing about $8 trillion in   total. ’ ’  ’ ’     quant funds have launched, too. Schonfeld Strategic   Advisors, a   family office and hedge fund,    earlier this month. A former First   Boston CEO and Bank of America director are setting up a new   quant fund, . ’ ’   Some existing smaller managers say they are benefiting from the   shift, getting more checks from investors. ’ ’   ”As in 2008 and 2011, we suspect this environment will be   challenging for the levered beta riders (aka fundamental [equity    ] stock pickers) but should be supportive of the quant   process driven discipline,” Milind Sharma, who manages a quant   strategy at his New York firm QuantZ Capital, told Business   Insider. ’ ’  ’ ”   The interest in quant strategies has been playing out for a while   and has been driven at least in part by performance. One of   Sharma’s funds, for instance, was up 19. 1% and 9. 9% in 2015 and   2014, respectively, according to an investor update. It’s down 7%   this year, but the firm is still gaining interest, Sharma said. ” ’   This is opening new doors for quant traders and forcing the old   guard to adapt. ’ ”   The Financial Times’ Robin Wigglesworth  a quant platform that Steve Cohen has invested   in. One of the Quantopian traders helps run a     Mexican restaurant chain by day and does quant investing  —   for   which he had to train himself in Python code  —   by night. ” ’   Some of the biggest names in the hedge fund industry are having   to adapt. ’ ’   Paul Tudor Jones,  amid underperformance and   investor withdrawals, has been contemplating using more computer   models in investing. ’ ’   According to  Jones tried to prepare staff for the future of     investing aided by computers. ’ ’   This tweet from Dennis Berman, business editor at The Journal,   pretty much sums it up: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThese 17 words   from a powerful, humbled hedge fund manager   are the future of Wall Street   ’