”Over the past eight months, I’ve had fun being the obnoxious guy who tells everyone he meditates every day. ” ”Ever since I decided to try out the   app  last December after hearing about it on Tim Ferriss’ podcast, I’ve been much more aware of my thoughts and emotions, and with a few exceptions (including a rough day at the airport) I’ve been much calmer and more collected in times of stress.” ”I’ve dealt with occasionally intense anxiety since I was 11 years old, so that’s an accomplishment.” ”Headspace isn’t a   placebo; it’s a straightforward teacher that helps you learn the basics of breathing and visualization associated with secular meditation.” ’The company reports it has 8. 5 million active users, and this includes  and celebrity executives like Arianna Huffington and Richard Branson. Companies like Goldman Sachs and the   Cancer Institute . The app is free to download, but a subscription unlocks full access to all of its lessons.’ ”After using it for so long, I’ve gotten to a point where it’s become an essential part of my daily routine. Below, I’ll break down what it’s like to use.” ’After going through the first 30 days, you can access the rest of the exercises through a subscription.’ ’I signed up for the year subscription, which now goes for $96, though you may find some promo codes floating around for a discount.’ ”It’s certainly not cheap, but if you take it as $8 a month, it’s worth it for a daily user.” ’The variety has kept me looking forward to trying new things within the app. Each pack lasts either 10 or 30 days, and you choose if you want each session to last 10, 15, or 20 minutes. I always select 10 minutes.’ ’There are five categories: Foundation, Health, Relationships, Performance, and Headspace Pro (less guidance during the exercise).’ ”Each selection in the category has a fundamental exercise attached to it. For example, I’m currently in the Creativity pack from the Performance category, and it includes an exercise where I make an effort to focus on my breathing for a few moments before letting my attention drift.” ”After eight months, I still look forward to each new pack, but I’ve found that there is a lot of overlap among the exercises.” ”The app’s interface is   and I find the pastel colors and goofy cartoon characters charming. ” ”So far I’ve gone through 16 full packs, 259 sessions, and 42 hours of meditation.” ’The gamification of Headspace is both a plus and a minus.’ ’I almost always find myself looking forward to progressing in the app, but I also have become obsessed with achieving the    award. With each new milestone, a   man in the app transforms, lifting something heavier. My little guy is currently holding up an anvil.’ ”On days when I’m tired or running behind schedule, I’ve found myself faking a meditation session by   the lesson so the app thinks I actually sat through it. Whatever it takes to keep the streak going! (I know it defeats the purpose, and once I get the final award I’ll probably just use the app for its actual purpose. )” ’My favorite time to meditate is in the morning because it primes me for the day, though I also frequently meditate before bed.’ ”And though I try to use Headspace in my apartment, where I can do the exercise in relative quiet, I’ve also used it during my commute on a train and plane.” ”I’ve had people ask me if something meant to increase your focus can actually work on your smartphone  —   the most distracting thing in our lives  —   with a pair of headphones attached, but I don’t find it to be a problem.” ”It doesn’t take much   to put your phone on Do Not Disturb mode as you dedicate 10 minutes to alone time.” ”In one of Puddicombe’s animated tutorials, he portrays the basics of meditation with a simple metaphor.” ’Imagine yourself sitting by a busy highway. Cars continue to pass by. You can choose to sit there and notice the cars without focusing on any of them, or you can follow a car down the road.’ ”It’s the same with meditation. As you sit there, eyes closed, controlling your breathing, all kinds of thoughts will be flying through your mind. Instead of exerting energy to try to block them, which often backfires, continue to focus on your breath and let the ideas float by, acknowledging that they exist without engaging them.” ’There are a variety of singles available, including a new category .’ ”I’ve only tried a few, in the SOS (emotional meltdown) and Sleeping categories.” ”They are much shorter than the regular exercises and are good for a quick meditation fix if you’re in the mood.” ”I’ve found that I prefer sticking to the main timeline.”