”   Donald Trump’s image crisis is starting to affect even his   former supporters. A  of independent voters, some of who previously   supported the Republican presidential nominee, ascribed a lot of   negative traits to the brash billionaire. ” ’   Veteran Republican pollster Frank Luntz asked   independent Pennsylvania voters in a focus group that aired   on CBS News to name a word or phrase that they   think describes Trump. Nearly all of the attributes were   negative. Among those named were ”erratic,” ”laughingstock,”   ”impulsive,” ”rude,” ”arrogant,” ”childish narcissist,” and   ”egotistical.” ’ ’   Luntz noted that they were all ”horrible” descriptions of a   presidential candidate. ’ ’ ’ ’WATCH:  focus group of undecided voters describe thoughts on Donald Trump as they make their decision’ ’   Six people in the group said that they were supporting Trump, but   nearly all of them said that they had been leaning toward Trump   at one point during the election. ’ ’   One voter who said that Trump had initially been her first choice   told Luntz that the nominee had ”become outrageous” and lamented   that he ”speaks without thinking.” Another, a longtime Democrat,   said that she had previously supported Trump, but that over the   last few months it started to seem as though he’’s ”insane.” ’ ’’ ’   A third voter cut in and said, ”I don’’t think he’’s insane, I   think he’’s just acting like a   .” ’ ’   ”When he initially began to run, he gave voice to a lot of the   frustrations I was feeling about how government is working or,   more to the point, not working, but since then he’’s been running   as a    and changes his positions every news cycle,” the   voter said. ’ ’   Another said that Trump needs to ”stop worrying about sound   bites” to get news time. ’ ”   Voters overall seemed concerned about the substance of Trump’s   campaign, noting that he needs to focus more on issues and less   on shocking people. ” ”   But some voters in the focus group noted that, despite Trump’s   shortcomings, they might still consider voting for him. One,   voicing a common opinion, said that Trump is preferable to the   Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton. ”