’  ’ ’   The hacking software that completely takes over an Apple iPhone   and turns it into a mobile surveillance device is pretty   terrifying. ’ ’   Built by a shadowy company called    the software called ”Pegasus”  —   discovered after being used   against a human rights activist in the United Arab Emirates  —     forced Apple to  on Thursday to   protect its users worldwide. ’ ”   Updating iOS to the current 9. 3. 5 version is crucial for all   users, since Pegasus is designed to infect a person’s phone   and it is virtually impossible to detect. ” ’   ”The software leaves absolutely no indicators of compromise to   the user,” Mike Murray, vice president of security   research and response at  a mobile security firm   that researched the threat with CitizenLab, told   Business Insider. ’ ’   One of Murray’’s fellow researchers told him of how advanced   Pegasus is: ”Once you get this software on your phone, it’s not   your phone anymore.” ’ ’   The revelation of Pegasus started with a text message on Aug. 10. ’ ’   A text sent to the iPhone 6 of Ahmed Mansoor,  activist in the United Arab   Emirates, promised ”new secrets about torture of Emiratis in   state prisons” with a link. Though the phone number it came   from was faked, and the text’’s claims were interesting,  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   “What we were looking at were three chained together iOS zero   days,” Murray told BI.  ’ ’   After clicking the link, the Safari browser quickly opened and   then closed. “That’’s the only indication the user will ever   have,” Murray said. ’ ’   But in the background, Pegasus was calling back to servers   controlled by its creators, then downloading its malicious   software, jailbreaking the device, and quickly infecting   every aspect of the phone from messaging software to its   repository of WiFi passwords with three ”zero day”   vulnerabilities, or unfixed bugs that can be exploited by   hackers. ’ ’   After CitizenLab brought in Lookout to help in discovering what   Pegasus could do, the researchers immediately called Apple to   report it. ’ ’   ”This is a real exploit happening in the wild against real   people,” said Murray, noting that neither research group   submitted it through Apple’’s  which could have earned them   upwards of $200, 000. ’ ’   “This wasn’t about money. This is about real people in the world   being attacked. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   In their research, Citizen Lab and Lookout realized that Pegasus   was designed to do two things: completely take over all aspects   of the iPhone, and operate like a ”ghost” that a user would never   be able to see. ’ ’   ”The joke with spyware is ’’suddenly my battery goes from 6   hours to 30 minutes,’’” Murray said. ”Pegasus doesn’t do that.” ’ ”   What it does do is gather an incredible . Every single text   message, calendar entry, email sent through Gmail, or WhatsApp   message is vacuumed up and sent back to whoever is behind the   spying. It constantly updates and sends the user’s location from   the phone’s GPS. And it even fully downloads the user’s various   passwords and steals the stored list of WiFi networks and   passwords the phone connects to. ” ’  ’ ’   Not surprisingly, it can intercept audio from calls, to include   those made through WhatsApp and Skype, or the microphone can be   remotely turned on to listen in.   ’ ’     ”We’re a complete ghost,” he  Defense     News of his sophisticated spy software. ”We’re totally     transparent to the target, and we leave no traces.”   ’ ”   Since its discovery, Murray said, the NSO      servers the researchers found Pegasus communicating with   have all been taken down. But it has   protections   for updating these servers, so it’s likely this discovery may be   nothing more than a bump in the road for the company behind it. ” ’   ”The level of stealth it has, [and] the level of protections it   has against its own infrastructure being destroyed or itself   being discovered is quite incredible,” Murray said. “I think   it speaks to the sophistication of the threat . .. this was   designed to maintain persistence and maintain the compromise a   lot longer than what you typically see in a lot of malware. ’ ’   When asked whether a hardware solution, such as  may be what users   need to protect themselves, Murray said it would make it   ”harder” for attackers, but dismissed claims it could be a silver   bullet. ’ ’   “I think it’’s an arms race,” he said. ”As soon as we try and do   it with hardware, the sophisticated attacker is simply going to   work harder to blend into the background. ” ’ ’   ”People are patching up certain holes and they’re just finding   new holes,” Blake Kotiza, vice president of sales for Privoro, a   manufacturer of  told Business Insider. ”It’s a   continuous game of cat and mouse.” ’ ’   Apple released an update to its mobile operating system iOS on   Thursday, which fixes the three   exploits that were   uncovered. Users who update to iOS 9. 3. 5 are, for now, protected   against Pegasus. An Apple spokesperson also confirmed to Business   Insider that the latest update to the  is protected as well. ’ ”   Murray’s company, Lookout,    that scans phones for security threats, which can now tell users   whether their device has been compromised. ” ’   “Now that we know what to look for, it’s much more effective,”   Murray said. ’ ”   But  and it’s likely working   hard to find another way to break into the iPhone, which is   believed to have been vulnerable going all the way back to iOS 7.   It had previously demonstrated hacks on Blackberry and Android   devices. ” ’   “It’s the best out there we’ve seen,” Murray said. ”Who knows   what other shady groups are still out there lurking, waiting to   be discovered. ” ’