’  ’ ’   DES MOINES, Iowa (AP)    Donald Trump warned Saturday of a ”war   on the American farmer,” telling a crowd in Iowa that rival   Hillary Clinton ”wants to shut down family farms” and implement     policies. ’ ’   Trump’’s speech at the annual ”Roast and Ride” fundraiser for   Republican Sen. Joni Ernst came just hours after Clinton received   her first national security briefing as the Democratic   presidential nominee. ’ ’   Trump skipped the   motorcycle ride that preceded the event   in a state where polls show a tight contest, a rare bright spot   for Trump amid a sea of challenging battleground states. Joining   him on stage were top Iowa Republicans   among them Ernst, Gov.   Terry Branstad, Sen. Chuck Grassley and Rep. Steve King   in a   rare show of support for a candidate who has struggled to unite   his party. ’ ’   In a hat tip to Iowa’’s agriculture industry, Trump renewed his   commitment to continuing a requirement that all gasoline sold   contain an   additive, an issue important to corn   growers. He also promised to cut taxes on family farms, which he   called the ”backbone” of the country. ’ ’   ”Hillary Clinton wants to shut down family farms just like she   wants to shut down the mines and the steelworkers,” he said in   front of a wall of straw bales at the Iowa State Fairgrounds.   ”She will do this not only through radical regulation, but also   by raising taxes on family farms   and all businesses   to rates   as high as nearly 50 percent.” ’ ’   Clinton’’s campaign website touts a plan to increase funding to   support farmers and ranchers in local food markets and regional   food systems, saying she’’ll create a ”focused safety net to help   family farms get through challenging times.” It also says she   plans to target federal resources in commodity payment, crop   insurance, and disaster assistance programs to support family   operations. ’ ’   Branstad, in an interview with The Associated Press prior to the   speech, said he felt that Trump could score points against   Clinton by focusing on agricultural issues. Branstad, whose son   runs Trump’’s campaign in the state, said he also hopes Trump   would launch campaign ads there and that he sees the race as   ”about even.” ’ ’   ”I don’’t like that but, hopefully, that’’s going to change,”   Branstad said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Speaking to an overwhelmingly white crowd, he again pledged that   as president he would help   living in cities   with high crime and low employment. He offered no specifics for   how he would achieve that goal. He also continued to criticize   Clinton for branding young criminals as ” ” in   comments more than 20 years ago. ’ ’   ”Remember that? ’’’’” he said. ”And they were very,   very insulted. But now people have forgotten.” Clinton’’s primary   opponent, Sen. Bernie Sanders, had criticized her for the remark,   and she has since apologized for it. ’ ”   Amid his ongoing appeal to black voters, Trump drew an online   backlash Saturday for a tweet he sent in response to the shooting   death of NBA star Dwayne Wade’s cousin, who was gunned down near   the Chicago school where she had planned to register her   children. ” ’   ”Just what I have been saying.   will VOTE   TRUMP!” Trump tweeted. He later sent a second tweet offering his   ”condolences to Dwyane Wade and his family.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Campaigning in Florida, Clinton running mate Tim Kaine said, ”We   ought to be extending our sympathy to the family,” and added,   ”That’’s the only reaction that’’s appropriate right now.” ’ ’   Clinton met Saturday for more than two hours with intelligence   officials at the FBI office in White Plains, New York, for her   first overview of the major threats facing the nation around the   globe since becoming the Democratic nominee. Trump received his   briefing earlier this month, a customary move for major party   nominees but one that has been the subject of a political tussle   during the campaign. ’ ’   Trump also previewed his immigration plans at the Iowa event,   saying that he was developing an ”  tracking system to   ensure those who overstay their visas, that they’’re quickly   removed.” The proposal echoed the language of Trump’’s former   primary rival, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who is now   advising him. ’ ’   Thomas reported from White Plains, New York. Associated Press   writer Jill Colvin in Washington contributed to this report. ’