’  ’ ’   Uber’’s introduction of a ”safe rides” fee years ago drew the ire   of customers upset that they had to pay a fee for their safety.   But for Uber, it was clearly cash cow, generating $449   million in revenue over the last two years, . ’ ”   The number comes to light only after Bloomberg’s Joel Rosenblatt    in an improperly redacted court filing. ” ’   Uber declined to comment. ’ ’   The   company had been sued in December 2014 over   the     fee after customers claimed that it   misled them about their safety. The $   fee,   originally introduced in April 2014, was a way for Uber to recoup   the costs of running its background checks and providing     support to its riders. ’ ’   Last fall, Uber updated its   fee to as high as   $2. 50 per ride in some places. ’ ’’ ’   But plaintiffs in two separate lawsuits argued that the   company misled its customers about its safety practices in its   consumer advertising when it said that it was ”safer than a taxi”   or had ” ” background checks. ’ ’   Uber does perform background checks for all of its drivers, but   it does not fingerprint its drivers like other transportation   services, including some taxi companies. While the company   initially described its background checks as ””   it’’s since backed away from that language and endeavors to be   more precise as part of the proposal. ’ ’   In February, Uber agreed to pay $28. 5 million to 25 million   riders to settle the   case surrounding its     advertisements. After expected lawyer fees,   the settlement would have left riders with a whopping $0. 82 each. ’ ’   But a San Francisco judge  that the settlement was not enough, given   that Uber generated close to half a billion dollars in revenue   from the fees  —   a number no one is supposed to know. ’ ’   ”Under these circumstances, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have   not adequately explained why a gross settlement fund amount of   $28. 5 million is fair, adequate, and reasonable compared to what   class members paid Uber for safety,” US District Judge Jon   Tigar wrote in the court order. ’ ”   This is the second time in two weeks that a court has   squashed Uber’s attempts to settle its outstanding court   cases. The company’s proposed $100 million settlement with   drivers   ”