”   As tropical storm Hermine  —   upgraded from a tropical depression   on Wednesday afternoon  —   takes aim at Florida’s western Big Bend   this week, a number of questions remain. ” ”   Here’s what we do know: ” ”   The cone in this map offers some idea of where Hermine might   travel over the course of the next several days. But it doesn’t   offer a full picture of how uncertain things are right now. ” ’  ’ ’   Just look at how far west it moved since this map, released just   a few hours earlier: ’ ’  ’ ”   Part of what’s going on here is that the major     weather models are in sharp disagreement with one another right   now. ” ”   First, here’s what the storm looks like as this article’s being   written, on Wednesday: ” ’ ’ ’  part of complex zone of low pres. extending to rain on W coast of FL to disturbance nr   border to   ’ ’   One model, run before Hermine grew into a tropical storm,   predicts that the storm will sit off the East Coast for a long   while, inscribe a little    in the Atlantic Ocean, then   return to dump even more water on the East Coast: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tLatest (06Z) GFS has  circling off the East Coast for at least the next 16 days. Weird.  ’ ’   Another suggests the storm will move up the coast of the   Carolinas, then crash into New York: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tLatest (12Z) Euro says: Get ready, NYC. Tropical Storm  on your doorstep on Sunday.  ’ ’   And more recent predictions shift the whole system over land  —     something that could lead to severe weather up and down most of   the East Coast, but would likely spare waterfront areas a major   storm surge: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tHere’s your 5 PM ET brief on Tropical Storm . Cone shifts westward. Hurricane Watch extended to Destin   ” ”   Here’s what’s going on: ” ”   Hurricanes and tropical storms are . Unlike broad patterns of   warmth and cooling in the atmosphere, tropical storms can shift,   shrink, or grow because of tiny events that models aren’t very   good at understanding. ” ’   NOAA hurricane specialist James Franklin told Business Insider   that beyond three days out, hurricane models live in a kind of   ”fantasy land.” ’ ”   It’s normal for models to look a bit chaotic that far in the   future. ” ’   Thomas Downs, a meteorologist with Weatherbell Analytics, told   Business Insider that some particular weather events in the   middle latitudes are making Hermine especially difficult to   precisely predict. ’ ’   ”What I see as a meteorologist is that the computer model’’s very   confused right now,” he said. ”When there are shifts [from one   run of a model to another] like this, we know something funky is   going to happen because of the different, strange tracks.” ’ ’   Right now, there’’s an atmospheric ”trough” over the Carolinas.   Hermine could smack into it, intermingle, and move over land as a   weaker storm that moves quickly and dissipates  —   more like a   typical winter storm than a cyclone. ’ ’   Or it could shunt out to sea, where warm water would likely help   the storm maintain its power. ’ ’   ”Does that mean it’’s going to hit Washington, DC, or New York or   Boston?” Downs said. ”This storm especially is one that has a   mind of its own. The science of meteorology hasn’’t really caught   up to quite the way hurricanes intensify and interact. And that’’s   quite frankly why we’’re seeing this right now.” ’ ’   If Hermine goes out to sea and holds onto its power, the current   atmospheric patterns might make it hover off the coast, which   would be bad news for the areas affected. (The Jersey Shore looks   like a possible candidate.) But its exact path is much harder to   predict. ’ ”   Here’s what we don’t know at all right now: ” ’   Follow along with Business Insider for updates on Hermine. ’