’  ’ ”   Hurricane Hermine  —     —   has   taken aim at Florida’s western Big Bend area, and should   strike late Thursday night or early Friday morning. ” ”   It will be the first   hurricane to hit Florida since   2005. That’s an astonishingly long run for the southeasternmost   US state. Expected to make landfall as a category one storm,   Hermine doesn’t carry quite the same risks as a larger storm,   which the Washington Post reports could cost the state . ” ’   But Hermine is still a plenty powerful storm in its own right.   The NOAA warning reports gusts as high as 75 miles per hour, with     winds extending 45 miles from its center and   tropical   winds as far as 185 miles from its center. ’ ”   It’s still unknown precisely how Hermine will behave after   striking Florida. ” ’  ’ ’   The most consistent model has shown that Hermine could move up   the East Coast and spend several days fairly immobile off the   coast of New Jersey and New York. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tLatest (12Z) Euro still has  at or near hurricane status for 5 days off    Island next week.  ’ ”   That would likely be bad news for those areas. When storms sit in   on place, centered offshore, they can kick up larger and   larger storm surges and high tides with their winds. That’s a big   part of what made Hurricane Sandy so devastating. At the same   time, the NOAA does not anticipate that Hermine will retain its   hurricane force at that point. ” ”   But that’s still a bit too far in the future to predict   confidently. ” ”   Hurricanes and tropical storms are  though computer models have   improved drastically in the last decade. Unlike broad patterns of   warmth and cooling in the atmosphere, tropical storms can shift,   shrink, or grow because of tiny events that models aren’t very   good at understanding. ” ’   NOAA hurricane specialist James Franklin told Business Insider   that beyond three days out, hurricane models live in a kind of   ”fantasy land.” ’ ”   It’s normal for models to look a bit chaotic that far in the   future. ” ’   Thomas Downs, a meteorologist with Weatherbell Analytics, told   Business Insider that some particular weather events in the   middle latitudes are making Hermine especially difficult to   precisely predict. ’ ’   ”What I see as a meteorologist is that the computer model’’s very   confused right now,” he said. ”When there are shifts [from one   run of a model to another] like this, we know something funky is   going to happen because of the different, strange tracks.” ’ ’   Right now, there’’s an atmospheric ”trough” over the Carolinas.   Hermine could smack into it, intermingle, and move over land as a   weaker storm that moves quickly and dissipates  —   more like a   typical winter storm than a cyclone. ’ ’   Or it could shunt out to sea, where warm water would likely help   the storm maintain its power. ’ ’   ”Does that mean it’’s going to hit Washington, DC, or New York or   Boston?” Downs said. ”This storm especially is one that has a   mind of its own. The science of meteorology hasn’’t really caught   up to quite the way hurricanes intensify and interact. And that’’s   quite frankly why we’’re seeing this right now.” ’ ’   Follow along with Business Insider for updates on Hermine. ’