’  ’ ’   A series of news reports coming out of Norway claim to connect a   Norwegian shipping company that operates seismic vessels for the   oil industry to slave labor benefitting   officials in   North Korea’s dictatorial Worker’s Party. ’ ’   Parts of GC Reiber Shipping’s flagship seismic vessel, the Polar   Empress, have allegedly been constructed by North Korean workers   brought to Gdynia, Poland, by Armex, a local staffing company. ’ ’   Oil and gas companies use seismic vessels to locate the best   possible area to drill in oceans and other high seas, explains    a   maritime training   website.  with its ability to tow up   to 122 seismic cables at once, is recognized as one of the most   advanced vessels of its kind in the world. ’ ’   When Gdynia’s Labor Inspectorate began investigating the staffing   company’s operations, it found that as many as 90 percent of   active workers at the shipyard had come from North Korea. In   their new European home, they regularly worked 12 hours a day,   six days a week, according to the Norwegian trade newspaper   Teknisk Ukeblad. ’ ’   The workers also reportedly had their passports confiscated and   did not enjoy full freedom of movement, even in their limited   free time. ’ ’’ ’   The new round of local reports, and an investigation conducted   earlier this year by VICE give credence to suspicions  by major human rights organizations for   decades: the North Korean government has been sending workers   abroad and confiscating their wages to pay for luxury goods for   Kim   and his government’s elite. ’ ’   ”We don’’t receive the money personally in our hands,” one worker   told VICE. ”We let the company look after it. When I return to   [North] Korea I’’ll get the money. If we carried cash, there’’s a   chance that we could lose it. Anyway we don’’t need any money on   the way to and from work. We leave it to the company, that’’s   safest.” ’ ’   The worker could not tell the investigator his hourly or monthly   wage, and when asked about the name of the company that employed   him, he responded: ”That’’s a secret.” ’ ’   A May article by  cited a study by the Leiden Asia   Centre that identifies three North Korean companies   Korea   Cholsan General Corp, Korea Rungrado General Trading Corp and   Korea   Cooperation Corp   that have supplied Armex and   a similar company called Alson laborers from the DPRK. ’ ’   Teknisk linked Armex and its slave laborers to the construction   of at least nine Norwegian ships built for   oil   exploration purposes. ’ ’   The findings cast a shadow over Norway’s shipbuilding industry,   which has prided itself on fairness and respect for human rights,   Sputnik News  adding that Armex’s CEO Cecylia   Kowalska has firmly rejected signs that her company maintained   close ties with the North Korean government. ’ ’   GC Reiber Shipping itself is a voluntary  to the    as   the “world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. ” ’ ’   The compact’s labor rights section flatly  forced or slave labor and unsafe   working conditions, including those suffered by the  100, 000 North Korean workers earning   money for the DPRK’s regime in several countries around the   world. ’ ’   Reiber has faced two consecutive quarters of financial losses as   oil companies shy away from new ventures and exploration activity   due to chronically low global oil prices. ’ ’   In the second quarter of this year, the firm saw a utilization   rate of just 45 percent for its   fleet. This time last   year, the ships were in use 90% of the time. ’ ’   “The market continues to see introduction and enhancement of oil   companies extensive cost reduction programmes,” the firm’s board   lamented. ”The cost reductions are followed by continued limited   exploration, severely affecting the seismic industry. ” ’