’  ’ ’   Most meteorologists sit behind computers to crank out hurricane   forecasts and warnings. ’ ’   Their goal is to figure out where hurricanes are headed and help   people on the ground stay safe. ’ ’   That’’s precisely why a small fleet of ”hurricane hunter” jets and   turboprop planes fly through storms. Unless someone is out in a   storm measuring crucial meteorological data that’’s   difficult for satellites to get, we can’’t reliably classify   a storm like Hurricane Hermine (now a tropical storm) or   know its true power and behavior. ’ ’   Master Sgt. Brian Lamar of the US Air Force Reserve, who flies   such missions, told Business Insider in  that these missions run in   to     shifts until a storm ”fizzles out in the ocean, and it’’s no   longer a threat to land, or it makes landfall.” ’ ” is a NOAA meteorologist who’s also flown on   such missions, which record hurricane wind speed,   temperature, humidity, air pressure, rainfall, and other   variables that are tricky for satellites in space to measure in   detail. ” ’   Some of the planes deploy disposable probes, called   dropwindsondes, to get this data: ’ ’ ’ ’   Lamar said missions fly in a   pattern, ”puncturing”   into and out of the eyewall  —   the powerful band of clouds around   the storm’’s eye or center  —   several times while dropping the   probes. ’ ”   This helps researchers figure out a hurricane’s larger structure   and movement: ” ’ ’ ”   All of the information is critical to  for millions of people who live in areas   prone to one of nature’s most destructive forces. ” ’   Murillo previously told Business Insider by email what hurricane   hunting is like: ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Most of my colleagues and myself fly in the   Orion airplane.   NOAA has two of them. It’’s our work horse! The P3 flies inside   the hurricane at about 000 feet above sea level. Our flights   are about 8 hours long as we collect data in all quadrants of the   storm.” ’ ’   ”All storms are different therefore the flights all feel   different. Some flights are bumpy. They feel like if you were   going on a regular commercial airline through some turbulence.   Some flights can get extra bumpy especially when we get close to   the storm’’s center (the eye).” ’ ’   ”In order to reach the eye we have to cross the eyewall. A   hurricane’’s eyewall tends to have the strongest winds and   updrafts so the plane can get jostled while we cross it.” ’ ’   ”A lot of people think it’’s dangerous but we are very safe.   Safety is key in what we do. The pilots are highly trained and   know how to fly in extreme weather conditions like hurricanes.” ’ ’   ”NOAA flies every hurricane season.  drives the science that is conducted on the   aircraft. We fly different types of flight patterns depending on   what type of data we are collecting. We also launch instruments   in the storm that gives us measurements of how the storm is   evolving.” ’ ’   ”We have a Doppler radar mounted on the tail of the aircraft that   provides information on the structure of the storm. All the data   that we collect is transmitted in   to the National   Hurricane Center for the forecasters and it also goes to our   computer models that take the data that aids in improving our   forecasts.” ’