’  ’ ”   CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.  (Reuters)   Israel’s Space   Communication said on Sunday it could seek $50 million or a free   flight from Elon Musk’s SpaceX after a Spacecom communications   satellite was destroyed last week by an explosion at SpaceX’s   Florida launch site. ” ’   Officials of the Israeli company said in a conference call with   reporters Sunday that Spacecom also could collect $205 million   from Israel Aerospace Industries, which built the     satellite. ’ ”   SpaceX did not immediately reply to a request Sunday morning for   comment about Spacecom’s claim. The company is not public, and it   has not disclosed what insurance it had for the rocket or to   cover launch pad damages beyond what they were required to buy by   the Federal Aviation Administration, which oversees commercial   U. S. launches, for liability and damage to government property. ” ’   SpaceX has more than 70 missions on its manifest, worth more than   $10 billion, for commercial and government customers.  ’ ’   The space launch company is one of three major transportation and   energy enterprises Musk leads. The others are electric car maker   Tesla Motors and SolarCity, and Musk faces separate challenges at   each of those money losing companies. ’ ’   Spacecom has been hit hard in the aftermath of the Thursday   explosion that destroyed the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket and its   payload. The Israeli company said the loss of the satellite would   have a significant impact, with its equity expected to decline by   $30 million to $123 million. ’ ’   Spacecom shares dropped 9 percent on Thursday, with the explosion   occurring late in the last trading day of the week. Trading in   the shares was suspended on Sunday morning, and the stock   plummeted another 34 percent when trading resumed. ’ ”   In a conference call with reporters, Spacecom’s general counsel   Gil Lotan said it was too early to say if the company’s planned   merger with Beijing Xinwei Technology would proceed.  ” ”   Xinwei last month agreed to buy Spacecom for $285 million, saying   the deal was contingent on the successful launch and operation of   Spacecom’s   satellite. ” ’   ”We hope to continue fruitful communications with the prospective   buyer,” Lotan said. ’ ’  ’ ”     was to be used by a number of key clients, including   Facebook and Eutelsat Communications which leased the satellite’s   broadband services to expand internet access in Africa. Both   firms are pursuing other options, the companies said in separate   statements after Thursday’s accident.  ” ”   The cause of the accident is under investigation. Neither SpaceX,   nor the FAA which is overseeing the investigation, have said how   much damage the explosion caused at SpaceX’s primary launch site   at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida. ” ”   SpaceX said on Friday that it would shift flights to a second   launch site in Florida, which is nearing completion and which was   last used to launch NASA’s space shuttles. ” ”   Thursday’s accident, which occurred as the company was fueling   its rocket as part of a routine prelaunch test firing, was the   second failed mission for Musk’s space company in 14 months. In   June 2015, a Falcon 9 rocket exploded about two minutes after   liftoff from Florida, destroying a load of cargo headed to the   International Space Station. ” ”   SpaceX returned to flight in December and since then has flown   nine times, all successfully. It was scheduled to fly for the   29th time on Saturday. SpaceX declined to comment about what   impact Thursday’s accident would have on its   schedule.   ” ’   (Writing by Joseph White; Editing by Mary Milliken) ’