’  ’ ’   The year is 1999. The summer is rolling into fall and Labor Day   weekend is spent shopping for      clothes.   Teen girls, in particular, are flocking to one store. After all,   the  is playing   on the radio, and its   lyrics (”I like girls that wear Abercrombie & Fitch”)   solidify the chain’’s status as the hottest teen retailer of the   day. ’ ’   Flash forward 17 years and Abercrombie has all but lost its   luster.   sales have been falling for years. In its   latest earnings call with investors this week, the company   announced plans to close about 60 stores, signaling that its   attempt to save the brand has pretty much failed.  ’ ’   Abercrombie has been trying to save itself around for a   while now, reinventing its image and as a result   becoming    ’ ’   The brand   ’ ’  ’ ”   But the brand’s attempt to execute a turnaround is proving to be   very difficult.   ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’”s’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Competition aside, the company’s struggles symbolize how   tough it is for a brand to shift gears as dramatically as   Abercrombie is trying to do. ” ’   ”In the history of retail, it is very difficult when a brand   tries to reposition itself anywhere along the age demographic,”   Chen said. ”You can almost predict failure when you’’re going   older or younger.” ’ ”   And Abercrombie’s image doesn’t help. ” ’   ”As you can imagine, there’’s some preconceived notions with the   brand’’s image,” Chen said.  ’ ”   Abercrombie & Fitch’s sordid reputation for preppy clothes   and sexually explicit ads is embedded in millennial shoppers’   minds, the same way its logos were sewn permanently into its   apparel. ” ”   Everything that Abercrombie & Fitch stood for just doesn’t   jibe with consumers today.  ” ’   ”You clearly have a group that cares less about logo and brand   and more just about quality,” Chen said, ”and they [haven’’t   been] prioritizing apparel [instead, they’’re] using   disposable income on electronics like smartphones, health   and fitness, [and] even more so on experiences.” ’ ”   In  Abercrombie & Fitch chairman   Arthur Martinez acknowledged that apparel represents a   smaller percentage of young consumers’ spending these days. ” ’  ’ ”   As Beder wrote in another note to clients, the brand is losing   traffic because it’s losing market share  —   and that’s because   people aren’t interested in the brand, which may account for this   quarter’s 7% drop in   sales. ” ’  ’