’  ’ ”   Alexandra Lebenthal, the president and CEO of municipal bond   company Lebenthal & Co. has lived with essential   tremor since she was 3 years old. It’s made daily tasks like   taking a sip of coffee a much more complicated task.  ” ’   But it’’s not something she talked about much, out of   embarrassment. ”I didn’t like to talk about even though it’s   clear I’m shaking a lot,” she said. ’ ’   Now, thanks to a  Lebenthal can hold   a coffee cup in confidence.  ’ ’   ”I’’m really excited to take something that’’s been such a   frustration for me over my life, and be able to talk about it,   and see this change,” Lebenthal told Business Insider the day   before she went in for the procedure. ’ ”   The procedure Lebenthal opted to do is something called high   intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU for short). It’s gained   traction in recent years as a potential treatment   for everything from  to . ” ”   The results look promising, but it hasn’t worked for   everyone who’s used it  —   and it does come with some risks. ” ”   Essential tremor is a . It affects an   . The tremors can happen anywhere, but one   of the most common locations is the hands, making it difficult to   do simple daily activities like writing or eating. Although it   may worsen with age, it’s something many people live with. ” ’   Medication may work for a while in suppressing the tremors. And   before doctors started experimenting with HIFU, there were   already other medical procedures used to treat it, including   deep brain stimulation (a surgical procedure that inserts   batteries and wires to block out the abnormal nerve signals   that cause tremors) and another procedure that   burns the part of the brain responsible for the tremors. ’ ”   HIFU isn’t like the ultrasound you might get to image your   internal organs, or the health of your baby during pregnancy. The   technology uses 1, 000 ultrasound rays and focuses them onto   one part of the brain, setting up a way to remove that piece   without having to cut a hole in the skull to get inside. ” ”   You know how if you focus a magnifying glass over a leaf on the   sidewalk, it will soon catch fire because of the sun’s rays?   That’s loosely how the ultrasound rays work. They’re all   focused in on a very specific part of the brain,  the   neurosurgeon who performed Lebenthal’s procedure explained. For   the rest of the brain, the rays are low frequency enough to not   do anything, but at that one focused point, it essentially fries   that portion.  ” ’   ”In patients with essential tremor if you can the block the   function in this point in the brain and take a small spot out,   you can make people’s tremor better,” Kaplitt told Business   Insider. ”It’’s essentially releasing the brain to function more   normally.” ’ ”   A randomized, controlled trial of 76 patients with essential   tremor who had stopped responding to medications found that the   procedure was able to reduce their hand tremors for at   least a year. The trial,  was published August 25 in the New England   Journal of Medicine. It noted that the procedure wouldn’t   necessarily work well in everyone; in five patients on the study,   the waves couldn’t get past the skull, and some types of tremors   were harder to treat than others. ” ’   Some doctors have concerns about the experimental procedure.   Dr. Michael Okun, a neurologist at the University of Florida,   wrote in a review of  that ”it is worrisome that the tremor   score worsened progressively and that ultimately 14% of efficacy   was lost over 12 months.” ’ ’   And others have questioned how effective the procedure is in   comparison to deep brain stimulation. ’ ’   Frederick Lenz, a professor of neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins   Medicine, told Business Insider that he was a skeptic about HIFU,   particularly because the change it creates is permanent. While   DBS requires an invasive surgery, if there is an adverse or   unexpected side effect, the procedure can be reversed. ’ ”   And although the NEJM stacked up those getting the treatment   against those receiving a placebo, there hasn’t been a trial that   compares DBS to HIFU. The ultrasound procedure is still a   relatively new treatment for tremor, so more research   is needed. ” ’   Lenz said he would consider using HIFU, but with the caveat that   it would be best suited for people who had other illnesses or   were otherwise not well enough to go through the surgery required   for DBS. ’ ”   To treat essential tremor with HIFU, the patient gets set up   in an MRI that’s attached to a helmet that’s filled with   water to allow the ultrasound rays to go through it   (it’s similar to that gel that gets placed on you with a normal   ultrasound). ” ”   Here’s what the   looks like: ” ’  ’ ’   Throughout the course of the procedure, Lebenthal was awake and   running tests to see how her hand was doing. The ultrasound   started on low energy and gradually built up the intensity to   make the mark more permanent. ’ ”   There’s a lot of energy that gets lost as the ultrasound tries to   pass through the skull. So to play it safe, patients have to   shave their hair to ensure that nothing unexpected catches fire   (that’s another reason for the cold water). Lebenthal was also   given a device that allowed her to stop the procedure at any   time, in case things got a bit too hot. Kaplitt said the   procedure only stopped once near the very end because Lebenthal   felt some tingling. After explaining that it was a normal   sensation, the procedure carried on. ” ”   Here’s a look at Lebenthal’s left hand tremor, before the   procedure: ” ’  ’ ”   And here’s how her left hand works, after the procedure.  ” ’  ’ ’   For now, the procedure is only being done on one side of the   brain, so Lebenthal chose to have her left hand (her writing   hand) go through the process.  ’ ’   Kaplitt has bigger visions for this HIFU system, beyond treating   essential tremors. ” ’ ”   Because HIFU has  it   might be a major component in treatments that involve   delivering certain medications or gene therapies to the   brain, something that in the past has been difficult to pull off.   The   barrier is made up of the special blood   vessels that separate the brain from the rest of the body’s. It   makes it so viruses or bacteria can’t get into the brain the same   way they can other organs in the body.  If researchers could   use HIFU to open up a spot in the barrier, they could then   simultaneously inject the medication, helping it pass into the   brain.  ” ’   ”It not only has the ability to transform how we’re   treating this particular disease,” Kaplitt said. ”To me, it   represents a real platform for the future.” ’ ’   But some of the side effects for the HIFU procedure are serious.   They can include feeling tingling in the fingers, headaches,   imbalance when moving around, loss of control in body movements   or changes in the way a person walks. Other side effects may   include burns on the skin, blood clots, and tissue damage,   .  ’ ”   In the end, it’s important to keep in mind that the procedure has   only been approved for a little more than a month. It’s still so   new that many insurers likely don’t yet cover the cost of the   procedure, though that may change as more people elect to do it   instead of the alternatives. ” ”   For some individual patients who have been living with tremor,   like Lebenthal, HIFU already seems to be making a   difference. But many others may choose to wait until it’s   compared directly to   stimulation, or even just until   more people have tried it out successfully. ”