’  ’ ”   A pivot to Asia was supposed to be one of the signatures of   President Barack Obama’s foreign policy. But the last Asia trip   of his presidency, which came to a close Thursday, has been   marred by controversy. ” ’   Obama had to cancel a meeting with Philippines President Rodrigo   Duterte after Duterte called him a ”son of a whore.” ’ ’   He failed to reach a deal with Russian President Vladimir Putin   on a ceasefire in Syria. ’ ’   And he caused an uproar in China by exiting Air Force One through   the belly of the plane rather than down a large staircase that   would have provided a better photo op. ’ ’   And a rising China might make officials there more willing to   take risks. ’ ’   ”The negotiating environment for the US is getting more   challenging,” geopolitical expert and Eurasia Group President Ian   Bremmer told Business Insider in an email. ”The world is more   ’’multipolar,’’ and China in particular is getting much more   assertive  —   with the economic (and, in Asia, military) power to   back it up.” ’ ”   This, along with Obama’s struggles to pass the     Partnership trade deal, contributes to the difficult conditions   Obama has faced during the Group of 20 summit in Asia. ” ’   ”Even if the US made all the right moves, these would be harder   trips than they used to be,” Bremmer said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Duterte  while he was talking to reporters,   telling press that if Obama asked him about   issues   during their meeting, he would curse at him. ’ ’   Duterte said he would call Obama a ”son of a     ” if such a   line of questioning was raised. ’ ’   Obama called off his meeting with Duterte, and the Philippines   government issued an apology, saying that the press reporting   that Obama would ”lecture” Duterte on extrajudicial killings ”led   to his strong comments, which in turn elicited concern.” The   incident made headlines in the US as well as Asia. ’ ”   But Obama canceling the meeting doesn’t necessarily signify any   trouble with US relations with the Philippines. ” ’   ”Duterte misspoke,” Bremmer said. ”He’’ll do that a bunch. But I’’d   bet they’’ll talk and make up before Obama leaves office.” ’ ”   Ben Rhodes, Obama’s deputy   adviser, told   reporters that the meeting with Duterte was canceled because the   administration didn’t want the focus to be on Duterte’s   controversial comments. ” ’   ”All of the attention frankly was on those comments and therefore   not on the very substantive agenda that we have with the   Philippines,” he said. ’ ’   Obama and Duterte did end up meeting informally on the sidelines   of the   summit. ’ ’  ’ ’   There was also hope that Obama and Putin might come to agreement   on a Syrian ceasefire at the  . ’ ”   Russia has been supporting Syrian President Bashar Assad in the   country’s civil war, and the US has been trying to mediate   between the regime and the opposition, which is demanding that   Assad step down. Both Russia and the US are also fighting ISIS   and Al   terrorists in Syria. ” ’   In the end, Obama and Putin couldn’’t close the ”gaps of trust”   that exist between the US and Russia in Syria, . ’ ’   ”We have had some productive conversations about what a real   cessation of hostilities would look like to allow us to both   focus our energies on common enemies,” Obama said at a press   conference Monday. ”But given the gaps of trust that exist,   that’’s a tough negotiation. We haven’’t yet closed the gap.” ’ ’   Syria negotiations involving the US and Russia are scheduled to   continue later this week. But US officials have said that   eventually the US might decide that pursuing an agreement with   Russia . ’ ’   Some   experts consider the . ’ ”   The Obama administration has often touted its 2013 deal that was   supposed to remove   stockpiles from Syria and   prohibit Assad’s forces from using them against civilians in the   future, but a recent UN report confirmed that the regime has used   chlorine gas multiple times since then. ” ’  ’ ’   More negative headlines came with the botched landing in China. ’ ”   Obama typically exits Air Force One on a rolling stairway flown   in by the military, but Chinese officials reportedly told US   officials shortly before Obama arrived that he couldn’t use those   stairs. The US agreed to use a Chinese stairway, but then the   local driver was not able to communicate with White House   officials,  The New York Times. ” ’   The   resulted in Obama exiting the plane on a smaller   staircase from a   part of the aircraft, as he does   when he arrives in a location where there are concerns for his   safety, according to The Times. ’ ’   Some in the US interpreted the snafu as a snub from China, and   Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump seized on this   embarrassing moment during his   forum on   Tuesday. ’ ’   ”Think of it  —   lands in Cuba, doesn’’t have high officials to   greet him,” Trump said, mocking Obama. ”Lands in Saudi Arabia   …       and they don’’t have the high officials to greet him, the highest   officials.” ’ ’   Then, in China, Trump said, ”They won’’t give him stairs to get   off the plane!” ’ ’   There was also a tussle when Chinese officials mistakenly tried   to prevent Obama   adviser Susan Rice from   walking to the president’’s motorcade. While the incident was   unfolding, a Chinese official said loudly to a White House aide,   ”This is our country. This is our airport.” The story made   headlines across China. ’ ’   While US relations with China are often tense, the pressure might   be increasing as China shows it power. ’ ’   ”I don’’t see China sparring with the US over Obama’’s visit as   anything new  —   it happens every trip. It just ratchets up   incrementally as China gets more powerful,” Bremmer said. ’ ’  ’ ”   The   Partnership will be key to America’s   relationship with Asian countries going forward, Bremmer   said. ” ’   ”A lot depends on TPP,” he said. ”If it doesn’’t get done,   China will become the   leader for Asian economic   architecture. And US relations with many countries in the region   will slip.” ’ ’   Obama is pushing for the controversial trade deal that would   lower tariffs for 12 countries around the Pacific, not including   China. Obama is attempting to get the deal through Congress   during the   period before he leaves office. ’ ’   ”I believe that we’’ll get it done, but it’’s always going to be   hard,” Obama said Wednesday in Laos. ”Nothing is easy in the US   Congress right now.” ’ ’   Both Trump and his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, say they   oppose the deal. ’ ’   ”The whole TPP agreement really isn’’t about workers, who are   taking it on the chin whether it gets concluded or not,” Bremmer   said. ”It’’s about America’’s position in Asia.” ’ ”   Obama still has a few months to cement his legacy in Asia. But   with the TPP still hanging in the balance and his rocky final   trip to the region, the question of whether he’ll be able to   successfully pull off a pivot is open. ”