’  ’ ’   Less than two weeks ago, . ’ ’   As the world caught onto his decision to sit during the national   anthem to promote attention to social injustice, Kaepernick found   himself at the center of controversy. ’ ”   While many disagreed with the protest itself, the attention   didn’t seem to help his   grasp on a roster spot. ” ’   Kaepernick was benched in favor of Blaine Gabbert last season   after struggling through nine games. Following three offseason   surgeries,  and looked shaky throughout   preseason as he struggled to get back his arm strength and   conditioning. For a player already seemingly regressing, the   physical struggles were  . ’ ”   Fox’s Jay Glazer had reported that  almost solely   because of his declining physical skills. Meanwhile,  who   retched at the idea of signing Kaepernick because of his   political stance. If Kaepernick didn’t make the 49ers roster, he   might never make another NFL roster, it seemed. ” ’   The tables have since turned. ’ ”   Kaepernick started the 49ers’ fourth preseason game and began the   opening drive with efficient passing and a touchdown. He played   well and easily made the 49ers roster, though he is still   currently sitting behind Gabbert. ” ’   Through both the media storm of his protest and potentially   declining skills, there were enough reasons for the 49ers to cut   Kaepernick. They decided to stick with him. ’ ”   Furthermore, Kaepernick’s stance seems to be winning more   support. He made a small optical change before the Week 4   preseason game, opting to kneel during the national anthem   instead of sit. ” ’   After meeting with Nate Boyer, a former Green Beret who tried out   for the 49ers in 2015, Kaepernick explained that he felt taking a   knee was more respectful to the military. He also applauded when   military personnel were honored at the game. The optics seemed to   have helped. ’ ’  ’ ”   Kaepernick’s support keeps growing. 49ers teammate Eric Reid sat   while Kaepernick took a knee in Week 4; Seattle Seahawks   cornerback . The entire  during the Week 1   singing of the national anthem. US soccer star . Jets   wide receiver  Golden State   Warriors guard  for taking a stand.  is exercising his   constitutional right. ” ”   The publicity is also helping Kaepernick’s cause. His jersey   sales went from 20th on the 49ers to first in the NFL.   Kaepernick said he will donate all of his jersey proceeds  —   which    to be $300, 000 to   $500, 000  —   to charities to support his cause. Kaepernick also   said he’s going to donate the first $1 million he makes this   season to charities. ” ”   All of which is to say that the reactions to Kaepernick’s stance   are growing less vitriolic by the day. ” ’   In the meantime, Kaepernick is biding his time as far as football   is concerned. When asked about beginning the season second on the   quarterback depth chart, Kaepernick said (): ’ ”   It stands in stark contrast to the idea that Kaepernick’s career   could be over. Most in the NFL world think Kaepernick will, at   some point, challenge Gabbert for the starting quarterback job. ” ’   Kaepernick may not have had any idea where his protest would take   him, and he may still not know. Though his critics remain, they   even appear to be softening  —   the  but later relented, saying they games will be staffed   as usual. ’ ”   Kaepernick’s story may keep twisting and turning  —   it’s offered   enough already in two weeks  —   but for now, the cloud that was   hanging over his head seems to be dissipating. ”