’  ’ ’   From the trailer for ”Arrival,” which just showed at the Toronto   International Film Festival, you’’d assume it’’s a       movie about aliens coming to earth to make contact. If they come   in peace or to destroy us is the question that’’s left open. ’ ’   But that’’s just the hook to get you in the theater. The truth is   ”Arrival,” directed by Denis Villeneuve (”Sicario,” ”Prisoners”)   and starring Amy Adams, is a moving story that is more about   humanity than whether beings from the sky come in peace. ’ ’   Based on a short story by   author Ted Chiang titled ”Story   of Your Life,” ”Arrival” follows linguist Dr. Louise Banks   (Adams) whom the military calls on to help start a dialogue once   the aliens have landed. ’ ’ ’ ”   The world goes crazy when 12 large   ships suddenly   show up in different areas of the world. There’s one placed in   the US, in an open field in Montana. Dr. Banks and scientist Ian   Donnelly (Jeremy Renner) are the brains behind the US operation   to figure out what the aliens want. ” ”   They communicate with all other countries investigating pods. But   the head of the military arm of the operation, Colonel Weber   (Forest Whitaker) is getting pressure from the White House to   get answers. And the stakes grow higher when China decides to   disband from the process and attack the pod that’s within its   borders. ” ”   It’s all thrilling, and the science is not   and very   easy to understand, but it’s all a Alfred Hitchcock loved to use. It’s a detail   in a story that is important for the characters but turns out to   be less important for the audience’s needs. ” ’   The real story (and warning: spoilers here) is   the relationship that Dr. Banks builds with the aliens inside the   pod, playfully named Abbot and Costello, the legendary comedy   duo. Through her continued conversations with the duo in trying   to understand their language, she begins to uncover what they   want, but by delving into her own memories. ’ ’   There are certainly thrills, helped by a dramatic score and use   of pauses for tension, but the movie really runs off of the   captivating emotions of Dr. Banks, delivered perfectly (as usual)   by Amy Adams  —   who will definitely receive an Oscar nomination   for this performance. ’ ’   Another way of capturing that emotion is the beautiful   cinematography by  who gives the movie a very Terrence     quality with sweeping views of nature and closeups of   intimate interaction. ’ ’   All elements come together under the direction of director   Villeneuve, who has taken one step closer to becoming a top   auteur working in Hollywood. ’ ’   ”Arrival” will certainly be an Oscar contender in numerous   categories, but outside of awards, it’’s a film that should be   celebrated for its masterful storytelling.  ’ ’ ”Arrival” is currently screening at the Toronto International   Film Festival and will hit theaters on November 11. ’