’  ’ ”   Everyone knows someone  —   even if it’s your cousin’s coworker’s   daughter  —   who . ” ’   Usually these stories are touted as evidence of the fact that   Tinder is not, as is commonly believed, solely geared   toward hookups and   stands. ’ ”   Unfortunately, happy as your cousin’s coworker’s daughter may be,   her experience seems more like a fluke than the norm. Because we   all know multiple people who each met multiple matches on Tinder   and never heard from any of them after the first date. ” ”   But a recent statistic gives   folks reason   to be hopeful and to see those Tinder marriages as less a glitch   in the app’s normal programming and more a real possibility.   According to a Tinder survey, 80% of its users are   seeking a meaningful relationship. ” ”   Of course, it’s possible that these users were simply responding   how they thought they were supposed to respond. But assuming that   most of them were answering honestly, that’s some pretty   surprising news. ” ’’ ’   The real question is: Is it a waste of time for       users to spend their evenings   swiping left and right? Even if most people on Tinder want a   relationship, is there any chance of actually finding   one? ’ ’   Take a look at recent research and the answers that emerge are:   no and probably. ’ ’   Depending on who you ask, either  or  of   people who got married in the last five years or so met through   an   service (including, but not limited to, Tinder). ’ ’   Interestingly, couples who   sooner than couples who   meet in person. ’ ’   As Stanford researcher Michael Rosenfeld  one possible reason why is that     services allow you to select beforehand the   characteristics you know you prefer in a mate. On Tinder, that   might mean swiping left on the profiles that say ”football fan”   and right on those that say ”science nerd” or vice versa. ’ ’   At the same time, Rosenfeld did say that people looking for     relationships tend to use the dating websites where   profiles are longer and more  . So presumably not   Tinder. ’ ”   What’s more,    found that marriages that started online tend to be more   satisfying than marriages that started offline. Again, that’s   possibly because you can sift through potential matches   based on important criteria before you actually fall for   someone. ” ”   Ultimately, there’s no guarantee that you won’t meet 10 people   interested in hookups only on Tinder. There’s definitely no   guarantee that you’ll wind up exchanging rings with someone you   met on Tinder. ” ”   But perhaps the greatest takeaway from these findings is that     apps aren’t so different from meeting in   person. There will always be people looking for flings, marriage,   or something in between. It’s just a matter of learning to   quickly suss out who’s looking for what so that no one’s   heart gets broken. ”