’  ’ ’   After a prolonged period of tepid market moves, volatility has   returned with a vengeance in recent days.  ’ ’   For three straight sessions risk assets have been on a roller   coaster ride, tumbling, then surging, before tumbling yet again. ’ ’   But why? ’ ’   In an excellent research note released earlier today, Chris   Weston, chief market strategist at IG Markets in Melbourne,   outlines the three reasons why he believes market volatility has   suddenly spiked. ’ ’   We see plenty of research notes every day, but this is perhaps   the best, and most concise, that we’ve seen so far. ’ ’     Firstly, we have seen a further steepening of various yield     curves, which in itself is not necessarily bearish if the cause     is higher inflation and growth expectations. However, that is     not the case and this move is being caused by the Bank of Japan     looking to change the structure of its asset purchases, largely     as a result of how poorly its asset purchase program has worked     thus far. Throw in recent commentary (or should I say lack of)     from the ECB that throws into question the sustainability of     the ECB’s asset purchase program and you have a move higher in       bonds, that no one is positioned for.    ’ ’     Secondly, some of the biggest systematic (rule       driven  —   see point seven) funds have had to alter their     portfolios, many which have been at extreme levels. This has     caused massive shifts in their portfolio and in turn we have     seen markets respond in kind. The rest of market participants     have had to simply react and when volatility increases traders’     absolutely have to alter their strategy if they are to stay in     the game. Pure and simple, if volatility increases and we see     (price) range expansion one has to look at altering position     sizing, while pushing out stop losses to account for greater     leverage in the market.    ’ ’     Thirdly, throw in comments from the IEA [International Energy     Agency] that have pushed crude price lower and we have a     further move out of equities. The concerning situation is the     genuine reasoning behind the risk aversion move is very     complicated for many to fully understand. The issues causing a     strong correlation between equity and fixed income selling is     not the same as say the European debt crisis that everyone has     an opinion on.   ’ ’  ’ ’   There we have it.  ’ ’   Bond yields are rising as investors question the belief that   central bank stimulus will be ongoing, forced selling from some   funds due to the spike in volatility and concerns about the   outlook for the crude market. ’ ’   On the second point, Weston suggests that some “systematic funds   have been max short volatility and at their upper limits of long   equities and short USD”.  ’ ’   “These are some of the biggest financial market players in the   world. There is much talk on the floors that we seeing a huge   position unwind,” he says. ’ ’   Business Insiders’ Bob Bryan  ’ ’   Noticeably, there’s no mention of the US Fed and     expectations for rate hikes. Something many experienced investors   would agree is not driving market movements right now. It’s a   small contributing factor, not the reason. ’ ’   Given the focus on sovereign bond yields, Weston believes that   the open of the Japanese government bond (JGB) market later this   morning will be crucial in determining how broader asset classes   perform in Asia. ’ ’   “All eyes should be on the open of Japanese bond futures at   Tuesday, as the moves in developed market fixed income,   which are largely behind the volatility, have stemmed from Japan   and the potential changes in monetary policy,” he says. ’