How lovable can a robot be? A study of Roomba owners by the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2009 found that at least a few people considered their appliances to be as close as family members. Effects like light, motion and especially sound can lead us to sympathize with an appliance as mundane as a vacuum. That means that product designers are not just focused on how your appliances work they make deliberate design choices to amplify the consumer’s emotional connection to a hunk of plastic. On this week’s episode of “Tell Me Something I Don’t Know,” you’ll learn about a beer recipe to bring on a desert island, some particularly uncomfortable sounds and a career that lacks female participation (besides the presidency). The panelists are: Angela Duckworth, author of “Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance” and a professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania. Interned alongside the most famous intern in our country’s political history. Austan Goolsbee, economist at the University of Chicago and former White House economist, who collects movie ticket stubs. Keisha Zollar, actor, comedian, and host of the “Applying It Liberally” and “The Soul Glo Project” podcasts also the proud owner of a semicolon. Our “  Human  ” is Negin Farsad, host of the podcast “Fake the Nation” and the author of “How to Make White People Laugh. ” From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “Tell Me Something I Don’t Know” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for “Still Processing” and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.