’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON, D. C.  —   Before discussing his personal security   procedures with an audience at a Washington think tank on   Wednesday, FBI Director James Comey joked about  about Hillary Clinton’s use of a   private email server while she was secretary of state. ” ’   ”Obviously I want to talk about the email investigation while I’’m   here,” Comey said during a    at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, poking fun   at his role in the controversy. ’ ’   ”Don’’t you dare,” Comey joked to Assistant Attorney General John   Carlin about Clinton’’s emails before they began an informal   interview on the evolving   threats since  . ’ ’   A focal point of the discussion was the importance of   cybersecurity, as Comey emphasized that cyberattacks are   ”inevitable.” ’ ’   ”As a good consumer, read about the security of devices and what   steps people are taking to protect you,” Comey said. ’ ’   ”Anybody who wants to do harm to us and to our lives just has   another way to do it. I think it’’s inevitable and we are moving   in that direction, so I think people just need to continue to be   sensible in their own sort of security hygiene and asking good   questions and not assuming that somebody else has thought about   this or someone else has taken care of their security.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Carlin asked, ”Do you still have a piece of tape over your   cameras at home?” ’ ’   ”Heck yeah, oh, heck yeah,” Comey quickly said. ’ ’   ”I get mocked for a lot of things, and I am much mocked for that,   but I hope people lock their cars,” Comey said. ”Lock your doors   at night. I have an alarm system  —   if you have an alarm system,   you should use it. I use mine.” ’ ’   ”It’’s not crazy that the FBI director cares about personal   security as well, and so I think people ought to take   responsibility for their own safety and security,” Comey   continued. ”There are some sensible things you ought to be doing,   and that’’s one of them.” ’ ’   ”If you go into any government office, we all have our little   camera things that sit on top of the screen, they all have a   little lid that closes down on them,” Comey said. ”You do that so   people who don’’t have authority don’’t look at you. I think that’’s   a good thing.” ’