’  ’ ”   CHICAGO (Reuters)   The US Environmental Protection Agency on   Friday said its current position on glyphosate, the key   ingredient in Monsanto Co’s Roundup herbicide, is that the   chemical is not likely carcinogenic to humans. ” ’   The agency’’s ”proposed” position on the controversial chemical   was outlined in a  it published on the   regulations. gov website, which the EPA manages. ’ ’   After reviewing the available data, the paper states, ”The   strongest support is for ’’not likely to be carcinogenic   to humans’’ at doses relevant to human health risk   assessment.” ’ ’   EPA officials could not immediately be reached for comment on   Friday. ’ ’   The paper was among 86 documents, which included dozens of   research studies about glyphosate. All the material is to be   reviewed next month by an advisory group of scientists known as   the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act Scientific   Advisory Panel. ’ ’’ ”   The panel is tasked with reviewing scientific issues related to   the agency’s ongoing evaluation of whether the herbicide does    —   or does not  —   have the potential of causing cancer in   humans. It will also comment on the agency’s review and   evaluation process in how it reached its conclusions. ” ’   This meeting is the latest step in what has been a     process by the federal agency to assess human and animal health   risks, as well as ecological risks, of glyphosate. The chemical   has long been the subject of controversy over whether it causes   cancer. ’ ’   Last year, the World Health Organization’’s cancer arm, the   International Agency for Research on Cancer, classified   glyphosate as ”probably carcinogenic to humans.” ’ ’   Other government authorities have issued a variety of opinions.   The European Food Safety Authority last November said glyphosate   was ”unlikely to pose a carcinogenic hazard to humans.” ’ ’   The EPA also republished a paper from the agency’’s cancer   assessment review committee, which found that glyphosate was ”not   likely carcinogenic” to humans. In May, the agency published the   CARC paper online, but then removed it and other related   documents, saying it had inadvertently published the document   prior to finishing its review of the controversial chemical. ’ ’   The EPA said on Friday that it expects to publish its final   assessment of glyphosate in the spring of 2017. Previously, the   agency had said the review could be done by the end of this year. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Reporting By P. J. Huffstutter; Editing by Dan Grebler) ’