’  ’ ’   Someday water will be worth more than oil. Just like it was for   most of human existence until some clever men figured out to dig   ancient hydrocarbons out of the ground and create things like   plastic and gasoline. ’ ’   According to many, that day may soon come. As clean water becomes   an increasingly valuable natural resource, the search for a   greener alternative to oil is growing. One thing is for certain:   We will eventually use up all the planet’s oil reserves, and will   need to find other ways of powering our lifestyle. As for water,   we will never be able to survive without it. ’ ’   An ongoing crisis right now in America encapsulates these   problems, and perhaps represents a turning point in the way we   think of, and value, water and oil. The Dakota Access Pipeline,    across four   Midwestern states, would transport hundreds of thousands of   barrels of oil per day from oil fields to refineries. But a   movement spawned by the Standing Rock reservation Sioux has   spread like wildfire across the country, drawing Native Americans   and other protesters to the site of the conflict and inciting   nationwide protests against the pipeline. ’ ’   Unlike most other pipeline protests, such as the epic  this clash isn’t centered   on the role of fossil fuel emissions in fueling climate change or   the infuriating use of eminent domain. This is a fight centered   on water. ’ ’   The Sioux are worried that the pipeline, which runs through areas   of great cultural heritage, could leak and pollute their main   water source, the Missouri river. As the encounter between the   pipeline companies and the protesters has escalated into another   national referendum on fossil fuel infrastructure, courts and   government officials find themselves tied up in a tricky knot   full of historical deformities and unflattering loopholes. ’ ’   Cultural observer and environmentalist Rebecca Solnit has called   the nascent movement “extraordinary and possibly transformative. ” ’ ’   “What’s happening at Standing Rock feels like a new civil rights   movement that takes place at the confluence of environmental and   human rights and grows from the last 60 years of lived experience   in popular power and changing the world,” she recently wrote in   . ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’   The resource the Sioux are concerned most with having is water.   The oil is the one they don’t want infiltrating their land. ’ ’   John Fleck, director of the University of New Mexico Water   Resources Program and author of the new book  told me that this   encounter adds to a long history of disregard for Native American   water rights. ’ ’   “We’ve done a poor job of recognizing and respecting the rights   and values of native communities to water,” he said. “We can’t   keep doing that, both for legal reasons —  Indian rights to water   have a special legal status in U. S. law —  but also for moral   reasons. Solutions to the nation’s water problems have to   incorporate the values of all the affected communities. ” ’ ’   Fleck offered two instructive ways of comparing our reliance on   oil to that of water. ’ ’   “Oil is a substitutable good, meaning there are economically   viable alternatives for meeting human energy needs,” he said.   “Water is not substitutable. There are no alternatives to water.   There’s a second difference that is more subtle, but is also   really important —  transportability. Oil can be economically   transported in   quantities over vast distances. The   volumes of water needed by humans are so much larger that it’s   not economical to transport it very far. ” ’ ’   He said one solution to the transportation issue is to use food   as a substitute, since food is grown with water. ’ ’   “One of the solutions to transboundary water conflicts is to   trade food across borders, making up for shortfalls of water on   one side of a border with food grown on the others. In this way,   collaborative trade agreements can lessen conflict. ” ’ ’   Tuesday was a nationwide day of protests in support of the   thousands of people now camped out in North Dakota hoping to stop   the Dakota Access pipeline or at least alter its path. ’ ’  ’ ’   In Washington, Senator Bernie Sanders spoke to a crowd of several   thousand gathered in front of the White House. He said there are   a lot people who believe future wars won’t be fought over oil,   but over water, and that now is the moment to focus on the more   precious resource in the  . ’ ’   “We cannot allow our drinking water to be poisoned so that a   handful of fossil fuel companies can make even more in profits,”   he said. “We stand united in saying, ‘stop the pipeline, respect   Native American rights and let us move forward to transform our   energy system away from fossil fuels. ’” ’ ’   Van Jones, an environmental activist and former member of Obama’s   White House Council on Environmental Quality, also spoke. He   said, “oil is death, literally. ” ’ ’   Oil is made from the leftovers of ancient fossilized plants and   animals, turned into an extremely powerful chemical with a high   carbon content after millions of years of subterranean   transformation. What did those plants and animals rely on to   survive millions of years ago? Also water —  clean, pure, essential   water. The symbolism is quite literal. ’ ’   The point of this moment is not to bicker over who’s responsible   for what. For Native Americans, that much is clear. The 200 or so   different tribes gathered at Standing Rock are laying out their   history like a long tapestry alongside the pipeline’s freshly   dredged path. They are asking Americans and the global community   to actually, really, seriously consider the future for a minute.   The future that none of us alive today will exist to see. That   future. The future of 2150; of 2250; of 2350. ’ ’   We will need water then, and hopefully we won’t need much   oil —  because there won’t be much left. ’ ’   The water those around Standing Rock are putting their lives on   the line for is the same water people living in the foothills of   the Himalayas need to survive. Which is to say, there is a   certain amount of water on the planet, only a small percentage of   which is fresh. ’ ’  ’ ’   The more of that that becomes polluted or otherwise sullied, the   less there is to go around. New technologies to filter water and   desalinate it shift this equation slightly, but in the end demand   needs to equal supply. With global population still growing and   per capita water use rising, it’s only a matter of time before   entire nations enter into prolonged water crises that are   unlikely to be solved entirely within their borders, or the   bounds of diplomacy. ’ ’ the United Nations, over 750   million people don’t have access to clean water. And bear in mind   that water is not just for drinking —  far from it. Water for   irrigation and food production uses more than   of   global freshwater withdrawals, and up to 90% in     areas. ’ ’   Fleck remains optimistic in society’s ability to address these   challenges, especially in light of the successful adaptation to   water scarcity in the western United States over the last 20   years. ’ ’   “In all the major cities of the western United States, water use   is declining, even as population rises,” he said. “We’re not just   talking about a reduction in per capita use, but total use. And   if you look at the conservation behavior of California during the   drought of the last five years, you can see in the data signs   that when push comes to shove, municipal users have lots more   room to conserve even more. We’re nowhere near the bottom. ” ’ ’   He said even farming communities are learning to be more   productive with less water. ’ ’   “They’re doing this without much conflict,” he said. “Communities   of water users have come together to form water sharing and water   use reduction agreements that have avoided the sort of legal   fights that used to be a dominant feature of Colorado River Basin   management. ” ’ ’   So as long as there isn’t oil in the water, there’s hope for the   future. ’