’   At around 8 a. m. Monday morning, millions of New Yorkers received   an alarming note on their phones accompanied by a dissonant   noise. ’ ’   It looked like this:  ’ ’  ’ ’   The short message was referring to the manhunt for  the suspected mastermind behind several   incidents in the New York area over the weekend, including a   bombing Saturday night in New York City that injured 29   people.  ’ ’   Rahami is .  ’ ’   According to New York Mayor Bill de Blasio, the emergency alert   sent to people’’s phones was the equivalent of a digital ”wanted   poster,” and it helped bring  ’ ’’ ’  ’ ’   The alert ”is something that proved to be very helpful in this   instance  —   getting that message out broadly, putting   everyone on alert in a mutual way. We believe that was very   helpful in this equation,” de Blasio said.  ’ ’   New York used the nationwide  to send out the brief   note to people in New York City, but not people in other parts of   the state. The system, managed by the Office of Emergency   Management, allows alerts to be targeted to a specific geographic   region.  ’ ’ to be the first time the system has been   used to provide the name of a suspect in a law enforcement   investigation to citizens. The alert system has also been used to   notify people of incoming storms, including  as well as ”” alerts   for missing children. The alerts have been activated eight times   in New York since 2012.  ’ ’   NYPD Commissioner James O’Neill called the alerts ”the   future.”  ’ ’   ”I think the alert system is very helpful to the Police   Department and the FBI, and in this and in other instances also  —     it gets everybody involved. It’s that sense of shared   responsibility,” O’’Neill said. ”This is the future.” ’ ”   Some citizens and commenters do not share New York City’s   enthusiasm over the specific alert. ” ’   Brian Feldman at New York Magazine  that it was ”an extremely bad push alert to   blast across the greater New York area,” arguing that the alert   provides ”no useful contextual information” and ”essentially   deputizes” anyone to treat    Middle   men   as suspects.  ’