’  ’ ’   Alex Teichman crawled on the carpet as the dog ran around   him. A camera watched them closely nearby.  ’ ”   On the screen of the computer, Teichman’s outline was glaring   red, despite him being on all fours like the dog. The pet,   though, was a shining green.  ” ”   It was graduation day from Stanford’s StartX incubator, and   Teichman and his cofounder Hendrik Dahlkamp had built a home   security system home that can tell the difference   between humans, a potential threat, and things like dogs running   around a yard.  ” ’   However, the video of Teichman versus the dog is the last   public evidence of a company   Snitch. In early   2015,  about what the duo was working   on, complete with the video.   ’ ’   Since then, though, buzz has been slowly building around the   ” ” and ” ” mysterious company and its newly   discovered ties to major Google alums. With its focus on machine   vision and their expertise in   cars, speculation   about the project’’s potential is growing. ’ ’   A few recent clues discovered by Business Insider hint at what   the   startup might be working on. ’ ”   Snitch’s founding team is two guys with brilliant minds and   backgrounds to match, a pair that many Silicon Valley investors   would be delighted to throw money at. ” ’   Teichman’’s mentor was Sebastian Thrun, the ”father of the     car” who founded Google X. At Stanford, Teichman had   worked in Thrun’’s lab and was the perception lead on Stanford’’s     car. His summers were spent interning at famed   robotics research lab  ’ ”   Years before, Teichman had suffered from a nagging worry   that his house was going to get burglarized, according to a   . He had been receiving random phone calls, and   there had been a notice of an uptick of crime in the   neighborhood. So he rigged up his own security   camera and loaded it with the   technology that   he had been working on. He wanted to be able to tell the   difference between a tree branch in the wind or a burglar   entering the backyard. But nothing came of it since his house   wasn’t robbed. ” ’   At Stanford, Teichman met his   Dahlkamp,   who also specialized in seeing the world in different ways.   He had cofounded the technology behind Google Street View and   also went to Stanford to study under Thrun and work on its     car. ’ ’   The two were at a party together when Dahlkamp brought up the old   security system Teichman had built. Only then did Teichman   realize it might form the basis of a company. ’ ’ ’ ’    In October 2014, they incorporated the business. Months   later, they graduated from the Stanford StartX labs. And then   they all but disappeared. ’ ’   Business Insider has found a few clues, however.  ’ ’   In November 2015, the pair’’s mentor, Thrun, tried to   find some new talent for the startup, which   he described as ” .” ’ ’   ”   ’ ’   Also, at some point Teichman  a website for freelance logo   design, looking for an image to go with the name at the time,   Snitch: ”I’’m building an intelligent home security system that   uses a totally new kind of camera and can understand what it’’s   seeing, rather than just detecting that something changed,”   Teichman wrote. ”It’’s super cool but I can’’t draw for   . Help!” ’ ’   The winning design, a    camera, can be found on   two websites: Kortschak Investments and Playground Global. ’ ”   Playground Global  the creator of the Android operating   system who left Google in October 2014 to start a hardware   incubator. Turns out that Dahlkamp and Teichman have been   incubating the company in Rubin’s Playground Global over the last   year,  from their recruiter Doreen Xia on   a computer vision forum. ” ’   Although Playground is a hardware incubator, according to    the young company is now more   concerned with software for security cameras  —   and it has a new   name: Lighthouse. ’ ’   The trademark covers computer software for a range of tasks,   from viewing and analyzing video to operating, managing, and   monitoring security systems. The trademark covers not only   the computer software but also ”software as a   service” or a licensing model that would let people   subscribe to using the software over time. ’ ’   Today,    only teases something ”Coming soon.” ’ ”   The company declined to talk to Business Insider. Andy Rubin,   Playground Global, and Sebastian Thrun didn’t respond to request   for comment.  ” ”   Still, venture capitalists are buzzing about it, wondering if it   could dethrone Google’s Nest in the camera market. Since it’s not   making its own camera, unlike Nest which acquired Dropcam, it   will have a harder time getting its software in the hands of   people, one investor speculated.  ” ’   Others are excited to see the technology behind   cars   be applied to other areas beyond the   automotive space.   Lighthouse might be the first breakout company to do   it.   ’