’   CNN anchor Jake Tapper asked Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook   on Sunday to answer why an IT worker who maintained Clinton’’s   private email server referred to a     policy   as a ”.” ’ ’   In an interview on ”State of the Union,” Tapper asked why an   employee of Platte River, which hosted Clinton’’s private email   server, referred to the policy of deleting emails   during the time after Clinton was out of office as a ”    operation,” a comment the IT worker told the FBI was a joke. ’ ’   ”This IT director thought he was covering something up, no?”   Tapper asked. ’ ’ ’ ’   Mook did not address the question specifically, though he   did note that the FBI and the Department of Justice chose not to   prosecute Clinton over her use of a private email server   while serving as secretary of state. ’ ’   ”The FBI did a comprehensive and deep investigation into this,   and at the conclusion of that, FBI Director Comey came out and   said to the world that there was no case here,” Mook said. ’ ’’ ’   Tapper then interjected, pressing more directly. ’ ’   ”What’’s the Hillary   operation that the IT director is   referring too?” Tapper said. ’ ”   Mook did not address the question again, instead   saying the FBI released the information about the IT   worker only after House Republicans  information about a deal struck between the FBI and   one of Clinton’s aides. ” ’   ”The Republicans on the House side are selectively leaking   documents for the purpose of making Hillary look bad,” Mook   said. ’ ’   ”We’’ve asked the FBI to release all information that they’’ve   shared with the Republicans so we can get the full picture. But I   would trust the career professionals at the FBI and the Justice   Department who looked into this matter, concluded there was   no case than I would Republicans who are selectively leaking   information.” ’ ”   The   email was released as part of an almost     document dump of interview summaries from the FBI’s investigation   into Clinton’s use of a private email server.  ” ”   The Trump campaign on Friday seized on the IT worker’s   comments. ” ’   “The fact an IT staffer maintaining Clinton’s secret server   called a new retention policy designed to delete emails after 60   days a ’’Hillary coverup operation’’ suggests there was a concerted   effort to systematically destroy potentially incriminating   information,” Jason Miller, senior communications adviser to   Trump, said in a Friday statement. ’