’  ’ ”   Just days after SpaceX founder Elon Musk delivered his sweeping    a Colorado congressman is calling   on government agencies to take over an investigation of the   aerospace company’s . ” ’   The move  —   a signed  dated Thursday, September 29  —   follows   on the heels of two recent explosions of uncrewed Falcon 9   rockets. ’ ’   ”These failures could have spelled disaster, even loss of life,   had critical national security payloads or NASA crew been aboard   those rockets,” the letter states. ”Both SpaceX failures occurred   after the Air Force certified the Falcon 9 launch vehicle for   U. S. national security launches, less than fifteen months ago.” ’ ”   Congressman    ( ) penned the   congressional letter, which was   cosigned by nine other House Republicans. (The letter’s full text   is at the end of this post.) ” ”   It asks for increased scrutiny of SpaceX’s investigation   practices, given its plans with NASA to launch astronauts to the   International Space Station. It also lobs pointed questions at   the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) NASA, and the US Air   Force (USAF) about the certification process of SpaceX hardware,   pricing schemes, risk assessment, and more. ” ’  ’ ’   The first SpaceX incident in question was an  on June 28, 2015,   destroying a telecommunications satellite. ’ ’   SpaceX chose to do  with some FAA oversight,   ultimately determining that a faulty strut had caused the   accident. ’ ”   The most recent accident was a launchpad fireball of a Falcon 9   rocket on September 1, 2016, in Cape Canaveral, Florida. The   percussive blaze destroyed  and SpaceX again   exercised a federal law to  (since no people were harmed).   That investigation isn’t done, though a helium system . ” ’   For its ongoing investigation, SpaceX nearly doubled its team to   a core group of ”around 20 people,” of which ”more than half are   representatives from FAA, NASA, US Air Force and industry   experts,” a company spokesperson previously told Business Insider   in an email. ’ ”   Leading the entire group is   —   SpaceX’s vice president of mission assurance. ” ’   ”[W]e believe he is the best person to do so,” the spokesperson   said. ”We are collaborating very closely with the participating   agencies, sharing raw data and providing access to meetings.” ’ ’   But the 10 signers of the congressional letter do not seem   satisfied with the internally led process. ’ ’   ”We feel strongly that the current investigation should be led by   NASA and the Air Force to ensure that proper investigative   engineering rigor is applied and that the outcomes are sufficient   to prevent NASA and military launch mishaps in the future,” the   draft letter states. ’ ’   John Taylor, a SpaceX spokesperson, declined to comment when   provided a copy of the letter. ’ ’  ’ ’   Raising issues about SpaceX, its failures, and its treatment by   the US government is not a first for Coffman. ’ ’   As a member of the House Armed Services strategic forces   subcommittee (which oversees military spacecraft) he did so in    on  and in . ’ ”   The senator now faces a  in his district  —   the home of   SpaceX’s biggest competitor, United Launch Alliance (ULA) which   is itself a joint venture between Boeing and Lockheed Martin. ” ’   Records show that Coffman has publicly accepted  from Lockheed Martin   during his career. ’ ’   Coffman has also publicly . ’ ’   Samanthan Masunaga, a reporter for the Los Angeles Times,   captured the scuffle well in : ’ ’   The sparring has been  between the two companies as they compete   for government launch contracts worth . ’ ’   A government rule   —   which ULA has   relied on for its rockets  —   in the launch of military spacecraft   has not helped matters for the company. (SpaceX makes its own   rocket engines.) ’ ”   Business Insider contacted Rep. Coffman’s press secretary as well   as ULA and Lockheed Martin for this story, but we did not   immediately receive a response. A Boeing representative could not   immediately provide a comment. ” ’   The letter calls on the FAA, USAF, and NASA for their responses   to the letter by October 31, 2016. ’ ’   Business Insider forwarded both a draft and then a signed letter   to those agencies as well as to the DoD (which is named in the   letter) and asked for comment. ’ ’   Hank Price, an FAA spokesperson, told Business Insider ”it’’d take   some time to draft a response, and we wouldn’’t respond to it   until we’’d spoken to the Congressman first.” ’ ’   NASA representatives for the agency’’s Human Exploration and   Operations Mission Directorate told Business Insider in an email   ”we haven’’t officially received this, but even when we do, we   wouldn’’t be able to comment in advance of responding.” ’ ’   Laura Seal, a DoD spokesperson, told Business Insider by email   that the ”letter is not addressed to the Department of Defense.   If we do receive a letter from Congress on this topic for   response, we would respond directly to the author.” ’ ’   Representatives at the USAF did not immediately reply. ’ ’   Below is the full text of the signed letter. ’ ’ ’