’    ’ ’ Cleveland Cavaliers star  for president.   Below is the   he has written about his decision, which   he has exclusively provided to Business Insider. The     will also be published in the print edition of the Akron Beacon   Journal on Monday. ’ ’   Two years ago, I told you I was coming home to Northeast Ohio  —     where I was born and raised. When I came back, I had two   missions. ’ ’   In June, thanks to my teammates and all your support, I   accomplished my    mission. We came back from being   down   in the NBA Finals to finally grab what we’ve waited 52   long years for: a championship in Northeast Ohio. ’ ”   Holding that trophy was beyond words. It still hasn’t hit me. But   for me, coming home was never just about basketball. ” ”   As a kid, I didn’t have much money. It was just my mom and   me, and things were rough at times. But I had basketball. That   gave me a family, a community, and an education. That’s more than   a lot of children in Akron can say. There are a lot of people who   want to tell kids who grew up like me and looked like me that   they just don’t have anything to look forward to. ” ”   That’s dead wrong. And that’s why I came back to Cleveland to   continue my second mission. I am determined to make sure my kids   in Akron have what they need to become their best selves.   Opportunities, a support system, and a safety net for kids in   poverty or kids in   households shouldn’t be limited   to those lucky enough to be blessed with athletic talent. ” ”   When I entered the league, I founded the LeBron James Family   Foundation. I didn’t know it at the time, but my mission has   become clear. We give kids in Akron the resources and   opportunities they need to stay in school and reach their dreams   through education. ” ’   I don’t want to see any of them fall through the cracks. That   easily could have happened to me. ’ ’   But I was fortunate enough to have support and mentors around me   who kept me on the right path. That’s what we’re giving these   kids through my foundation. And when someone believes in you,   that changes everything. ’ ’   I’m so proud of the more than 1, 100 students in my Wheels for   Education and Akron I PROMISE Network programs. We’re working on   year six now, and my kids have big plans for their futures. ’ ’   A lot of them didn’t think college was for them, but now I hear   they want to become things like doctors and business owners. We   even have a future astrophysicist. I can’t wait to see how far   these kids can go. ’ ’   I also tell all my kids how important it is that they give back   to the community. Because if basketball has taught me anything,   it’s that no one achieves greatness alone. And it takes everyone   working together to create real change. ’ ’   When I look at this year’s presidential race, it’s clear which   candidate believes the same thing. Only one person running truly   understands the struggles of an Akron child born into poverty.   And when I think about the kinds of policies and ideas the kids   in my foundation need from our government, the choice is clear. ’ ’   That . ’ ’  ’ ’   I support Hillary because she will build on the legacy of my good   friend, President Barack Obama. I believe in what President Obama   has done for our country and support her commitment to continuing   that legacy. ’ ’   Like my foundation, Hillary has always been a champion for   children and their futures. For over 40 years, she’s been working   to improve public schools, expand access to health care, support   children’s hospitals, and so much more. ’ ’   She wants to make sure kids have access to a good education, no   matter what zip code they live in. She’ll rebuild schools that   are falling apart and put more money into computer science.   She’ll make sure teachers are paid what they deserve so they can   give everything to their students. ’ ’   She also has plans to make college a reality for more people in   America, especially for those who can’t afford it. My kids in   Akron are proof of the hope and motivation that come from knowing   college can be in their future, no matter what obstacles they   might be facing. ’ ’   Finally, we must address the violence, of every kind, the     community is experiencing in our streets and   seeing on our TVs. I believe rebuilding our communities by   focusing on   children is a significant part of the   solution. However, I am not a politician, I don’t know everything   it will take finally to end the violence. But I do know we need a   president who brings us together and keeps us unified. Policies   and ideas that divide us more are not the solution. We must all   stand together  —   no matter where we are from or the color of our   skin. And Hillary is running on the message of hope and unity   that we need. ’ ’   There’s still a lot of work to be done in Akron, Northeast Ohio,   and all across our great country. We need a president who   understands our community and will build on the legacy of   President Obama. So let’s register to vote, show up to the polls,   and vote for Hillary Clinton. ’