’  ’ ’   An increasing number of iPhone users are reporting an issue with   iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus phones freezing up and becoming   unresponsive to touch. ’ ’   The issue even has a deadly sounding name: ”Touch disease.” ’ ”   There are a lot of iPhones out there, so a problem that   affects a fraction of a percent of devices could potentially   impact thousands of users. But there’s some evidence that this   particular issue is fairly widespread.  ” ’   Apple has never officially acknowledged the problem, but  and  have said that it is easily one   of the most common issues that people need to fix. In August and   September, customers in    and  have filed proposed class action suits over it. ’ ’   Is your iPhone 6 Plus on the fritz? Here’’s what you need to know   about ”touch disease.” ’ ’ How can I tell if my phone has touch disease? ’ ’   The most visible symptom is a flickering grey bar at the top of   your screen. It looks like this:  ’ ’ ’ ”   But the flickering screen isn’t the only symptom. Frequently,   users report that after the grey bar starts flickering, the   screen becomes intermittently unresponsive across the   entire display.  ” ’ What phones are affected?  ’ ’   By far, the most commonly affected model is the iPhone 6 Plus   that first went on sale in 2014. ’ ’   One of the most common theories behind ”touch disease” is that   certain contacts inside the phone are bending, which leads to   them breaking. The theory goes, the iPhone 6 Plus  so it’’s the one   that’’s having the most issues with touch disease.  ’ ’   The issue has been reported in the iPhone 6, iPhone 6Sand   iPhone 6S Plus as well, but at lower rates.  ’ ’ How much does it cost to get fixed?  ’ ”   If you’re out of warranty, Apple will quote you a $329   replacement cost. ” ”   However, Motherboard talked to some current and former Apple   Store technicians  that if your iPhone is only slightly out of   warranty, then you might get a less expensive replacement cost  —     perhaps $100  —   especially since Geniuses know it’s not   necessarily your fault. ” ”   You could also go to a   repair shop and save some   money, but be careful, because it’s a very difficult repair.   Having a repair done independently also means that an Apple   Store won’t even look at your phone for repairs going forward. ” ”   Here’s an example of a touch disease repair that wasn’t done   correctly:  ” ’ ’ ’ Can I fix it myself? ’ ”   Unlikely, unless you’re a very skilled solderer. Even  doesn’t recommend doing the repair in your home. as   this video shows:  ” ’ ’ ’    What should I know when I bring my phone into   the Apple Store? ’ ’   If your phone is cracked, you may think those cracks are causing   lack of responsiveness. But in fact, you could have touch disease   as well. ’ ”   Simply replacing the cracked screen will not fix the problem if   it’s a touch disease issue  —   in fact, you might get a new   screen that’s still unresponsive to your touch.  ” ”   Additionally, if Apple gives you a replacement device, it’s   probably a refurbished device, and it could be suffering from   touch disease as well. Those refurbs only have a     warranty, so understand that you need to flag touch disease   problems before that warranty runs out.  ” ” What’s the actual technical problem? ” ’  ’ ”   According to one recently filed class action lawsuit, which cites   iFixit, the issue is with the phone’s logic board  —   the main   circuit board inside the iPhone which all of Apple’s various   chips use to talk to each other.   ” ’   On that board. there are two ”IC” chips that ”convert the touches   on the touchscreen into actions in Apple’’s iPhone software.” ’ ’   Apparently the logic board bends during regular use, thanks to an   engineering flaw on the iPhone 6 Plus, which means the   connections between the two IC chips become separated from the   logic board. The solder simply breaks.  ’ ’   So you can either replace the entire logic board, or to resolder   the IC chips back onto the existing, possibly warped, logic   board.  ’ ” My phone’s a lemon. Can I sue Apple?  ” ’   Yes. Lawyers in both the  and Canada have filed class action lawsuits over the   issue. However, neither suit has been ”certified” yet, which   would be the first step towards a day in court. Also, class   action suits like this seldom succeed, and take years to complete   if they are successful. ’ ’ What has Apple said about the problem?  ’ ’   Apple has not publicly commented on the issue at   all, although  that the company appears to   be aware based on internal recommendations for   repairs.  ’ ’   Business Insider has contacted Apple for comment three times   about this issue but has not received a response.  ’ ” Did touch disease infect your phone? Are you a current   Apple Store employee or   repairer who has experience   with this issue? We’d love to hear your story. Email the author   at kleswing@businessinsider. com ”