’  ’ ’   Google held a splashy press event in San Francisco on   Tuesday to unveil  including a      phone called the Pixel, a   virtual reality headset   called Daydream View, an Amazon Echo competitor called Google   Home, and a home WiFi system known as Google WiFi. ’ ”   Unlike Google’s past dalliances in hardware, this time all the   products are under one division, led by former Motorola president   Rick Osterloh, and they seemed more coherently tied together than   ever before.  ” ’   For instance, Google’’s intelligent agent, the Google Assistant,   shows up in both the WiFI connected ”Home” speaker and in the new   Pixel phone, although you activate it slightly differently  —   with   Home, you have to say ”Okay Google” every time, while the Pixel   simply lets you press and hold the home software button. The   Pixels are the first (and so far only) phones to work with the   Daydream headset. You can get a Daydream View and a base for   the Home in the same   color called ”Snow.” ’ ”   The products themselves also seemed solid when I tried them   in Google’s demo area, although we haven’t had a chance to review   them independently. ” ’   The Home smart speaker really does understand if you ask it to   ”play that Smashmouth song from Shrek,” or tell it to turn down   your Nest thermostat  —   I was particularly impressed at how well   it picked up our voice commands in a crowded and noisy space. The   Pixel looks as good as any other   smartphone. The   Daydream View may make you look like a dork (like all   VR viewers) but it’’s got some smart design touches, like   the little cubby where you tuck the remote control, and it comes   in some cool colors and is covered with a pleasant soft fabric. ’ ’  ’ ”   All that aside, I still think Google’s heart is elsewhere.   Why? ” ”   Perhaps most telling, when Google CEO Sundar Pichai was talking   today, he didn’t show the kind of excitement   and energy he shows at Google   the company’s annual   event for developers. Pichai is a software developer; those are   his people. He was most animated during a long diversion   about about Google’s machine learning prowess in translating   English to Chinese  —   a tough problem, but a software engineering   problem, not a hardware problem.  ” ’  ’ ’   Google hardware boss  on Tuesday   that the company was serious about hardware this time and is in   it for the long haul. ’ ”   But in fact, the best part of these Google hardware products   isn’t the hardware. It’s the software and services that underpin   them  —   the brains behind the Google Assistant, the unlimited   photo storage for the Pixel provided by Google’s cloud, the   Daydream virtual reality platform that third parties will be able   to use to create 3D content. ” ”   So this is not Google turning into Apple. It’s   more akin to Google following Microsoft when it started   doing hardware in 2010 to help show what Windows 8 was capable of   on touch screen devices. Microsoft does take hardware seriously.   It has some excellent designers. It’s making some very   strong products and . ” ”   But it’s hardware in service of Microsoft’s other products and   its broader strategy of productivity everywhere, not hardware for   its own sake. ” ”   That’s the template Google is following. Google’s broader   strategy is providing access to all the world’s information, and   selling advertisements against the attention consumers pay to get   that information. Consumers or investors who think otherwise risk   confusion and disappointment. ”