’  ’ ”   Recessions don’t come on a schedule, but most times there are   some . ” ’   By looking at current macroeconomic trends, Savita Subramanian at   Bank of America Merrill Lynch extrapolated the . ’ ’   ”But in examining some of some of our favorite indicators’’ recent   trends, we did find evidence for an imminent recession,” the BAML   equity strategist wrote in a note to clients on Wednesday. ”While   the range of signals is wide, in aggregate they do suggest that,   if data were to continue to weaken in line with the recent pace,   history would point to a recession in the second half of 2017.” ’ ’   Subramanian looked at five main macro factors to determine what   they are saying about a recession: the   Treasury yield   vs. the   yield, the ISM manufacturing index, building   permits,   job growth, and commercial and industrial   loan growth. ’ ’   By looking at what each of these indicators did before previous   recessions over the life of the indicator, Subramanian came up   with an estimate of where we are in the business cycle. ’ ’’ ’   ”In this scenario, the range of potential recession start dates   implied by these models was as early as July 2016 and as far off   as April 2019, with an average start date of October 2017,”   Subramanian wrote. ’ ”   On the other hand, Subramanian mentions that some macro   indicators such as  and  would indicate that a recession is far   off. Plus, BAML’s economics team does not expect a recession over   the next 12 months. ” ’   Despite this, Subramanian said investors should be careful for   any sign of a downturn, as stocks typically fall off well before   the start of a recession. ’ ’   In terms of investment, however, Subramanian says there is little   feeling of the ”euphoria” that usually presages a recession. Cash   levels for investors are still at incredibly high levels,   indicating the top may not be in. Subramanian said that people   shouldn’’t take too much solace in this fact. ’ ’   ”Large cap active managers have the highest cyclical exposure   since 2012 and their overall beta exposure is near cycle highs,”   the note said. ’ ’   ”Meanwhile, equity funds (mostly passive) have seen over $100bn   more inflows over the last five years than during the same period   ahead of the 2007 market peak. We also estimate that US household   equity exposure has risen to levels similar to where markets   peaked in 2007.” ’ ’   Despite this, Subramanian said that missing the end of a bull   market and selling too early is worse for overall returns than   having investments during a bear market. Thus, despite the worry,   it is better to stick to your guns. ’