’  ’ ’   Rep. Martha Roby is a   Republican congresswoman from     Alabama. ’ ”   She won her primary earlier this year with   of the GOP   vote in a safely Republican district. She hails from the state   where Sen. Jeff Sessions, one of Donald Trump’s top surrogates,   wields undue influence. ” ’   And, as of Saturday, she is no longer supporting Trump for   president and is calling for him to drop out of the race. ’ ’   ”Donald Trump’’s behavior makes him unacceptable as a candidate   for president,” she said in a statement. ’ ’   The deluge came fast and furious. ’ ’   One by one, Republicans walked out on Trump, the dam broken by   the more than   vile comments he made .  ’ ”   But amid the flood of unendorsements and the torrent of   calls for Trump to step down, Roby’s perhaps stood out the   most. Donald Trump is on the verge of poisoning the Republican   Party’s brand for years, decades, even a generation  —   and the   party knows it. ” ’   ”Entirely possible. That has been the risk all along,” said Matt   Mackowiak, a GOP strategist and the founder of the Potomac   Strategy Group. ”. .. Picking up after the wreckage from   potentially devastating losses in the Senate, House and   governorships may take several election cycles.” ’ ’   There is a reason this Trump scandal feels different, and it is   shown in the universal reactions of Republican leaders all the   way up to House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader   Mitch McConnell.  ’ ’   His comments should offend virtually everyone. Just about every   single word  the television personality, is downright   nasty toward women. Trump’’s immediate spin, that this was   ”  banter,” essentially suggested it was normal   for all men to joke about sexual assault and cheating on your   significant other. ’ ”   If you are a parent, an aunt, an uncle (full disclosure) how can   you allow a child to watch Sunday’s debate descend into a level   of vitriol that has never been seen in presidential politics? ” ”   This is the one that had Republicans rushing for the exits. With   good reason: According to a source, a Democratic pollster in   the field testing the   consequences of   Trump’s  found      movement over the past few days. ” ’   Until Friday night. ’ ”   As media coverage of Trump’s lewd comments began to saturate the   airwaves and internet,   Republicans in New York saw a   sharp decline in support, this source said. ” ’   ”We’’re     ” said another source who works on the campaign of   a Republican congressional candidate. ’ ’  ’ ’   Four years ago, after a loss that seemingly pales in comparison   to the potential in 2016, the Republican National Committee   commissioned an ”autopsy report.” ’ ’   The report was extensive, based on more than 2, 500 interviews   with voters,   officials, and party members and   elected officials, as well as a poll of 2, 000 Republican Hispanic   voters and an online survey taken by more than 36, 000 people. ’ ’   With the party at an apparent crossroads, it urged action. The   Republican Party, it said, had become ”out of touch” and filled   with ”stuffy old men.” It was ”talking to itself” rather than   reaching out to new constituencies. The perception was, simply,   that it did not ”care about people.” ’ ’   One election cycle later, the Democratic nominee holds a     advantage among women voters. A recent electoral projection    by far the lowest for a   nominee in recorded   history. There are countless other groups of people, like   Muslims, who must see a party that has talked about change, about   opening up, and has only closed its doors to them  —   in this case,   . ’ ’  ’ ’   The party is at an unthinkable reckoning point. ’ ”   Every single Republican candidate for a generation will (rightly)   be asked about his or her endorsement of Trump in 2016. Take Sen.   Ted Cruz, who, with impeccable timing, resisted endorsing for   months only to   —   as Trump creeped up   on Clinton in the polls  —   only to put himself in the awkward   pretzel position of sticking by the party’s nominee after his   biggest scandal. ” ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan, meanwhile,  that also included Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, Sen.   Ron Johnson, and RNC Chair Reince Priebus. But he, too, has not   withdrawn his endorsement. ’ ’   Ryan, who had also resisted endorsing for months before   relenting, is now put in an awkward position: Trump is too toxic   to come to Wisconsin, but should be chosen by the American people   for the most important job in the world. ’ ’   ”Trump’’s presidential run is now another one of his lengthy list   of bankrupted endeavors where others not only are left to pick up   the pieces, but to suffer for Trump’’s   sins,” said veteran Republican strategist Evan   Siegfried, a prominent Trump critic throughout the race. ’ ’   Sen. John McCain, the 2008 Republican nominee,  listing a litany of other controversies  —   a   feud with a Gold Star family, his attack on a federal judge   because of his heritage, and, most aptly, his assertion that   McCain wasn’’t a ”war hero” because he was ”captured.” ’ ’   McCain added a fun, fantastical wish in his statement: ”He alone   bears the burden of his conduct and alone should suffer the   consequences.” ’ ”   It’s not going to work like that. In fact, it prompts   a striking realization: It took an    video from   the set of a soap opera for so much of the party to finally   realize it had had enough. ”