’  ’ ’   He did just enough. ’ ’   Donald Trump became the first presidential nominee to . He told       and  . He awkwardly paced   and stood behind Clinton, looking at any moment . ’ ”   But he did not completely implode, and did not have a complete   and total breakdown onstage. That’s not necessarily good news for   Trump, who needed some version of a grand slam to turn around his   fortunes after a disastrous weekend. But it is terrible news for   the Republican Party. ” ”   Trump’s debate performance was likely enough to stop the   avalanche of Republicans from abandoning his campaign in   unprecedented numbers. Republican National Committee Chair Reince   Priebus, House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate Minority Leader Mitch   McConnell, and his running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, will   likely continue to publicly support him. ” ’   Simply put, Republicans are stuck with their presidential   nominee, for better or worse, for the next 29 days. ’ ’’ ’   ”It’’s like in the movies where a guy is riding a horse, gets   shot, but the horse is still alive so it keeps running while   dragging the corpse in its saddle,” one veteran GOP operative put   it. ’ ”   We are at an unprecedented moment in American politics  —   one that   saw a sizable portion of a major party’s elected officials    with a month to   go before the election. ” ’   It was almost impossible to keep up with the defections on   Saturday. . John Thune. . ’ ”   Yet it already seems that Trump’s performance Sunday night was   good enough to stave off those that matter most: Ryan told his   caucus Monday that  he would not outright pull   his endorsement. He said the focus would turn to keeping the   GOP’s House majority, according to a source on the call. ” ”   In doing so, Ryan virtually put the nail in the coffin on the   presidential race. But even throwing the House majority into   question, at this point, means the party’s most nightmarish of   scenarios is strikingly in play. Meanwhile, Trump continually   lashed out over the weekend at those jumping ship  —   and don’t   think he won’t continue to do so with the leverage he has from   his supporters. ” ”   Trump fired back Monday  previewing the potential : Trump supporters   don’t vote   Republican voters don’t vote Trump, and     independents don’t show up to vote at all. ” ’   And so the question is whether the horse, running around with its   lifeless human, will still be standing at the end of a long 29   days. ’