’  ’ ’   At  Donald Trump made the sort of   provocative statement that has defined his candidacy: That   he would throw Hillary Clinton in jail if he were elected   president. ’ ’   And on Monday, his staff offered a familiar   defense to brush the comment aside: It was just a joke. ’ ’   ”That was a quip,” Trump campaign manager  on MSNBC’’s ”Morning Joe,” acknowledging   that Trump would not have the power as president to personally   jail a political opponent. ’ ”   It’s not the first time the Trump campaign and   its supporters have dismissed a controversial statement   from Trump by claiming the brash Republican wasn’t being   serious. ” ’   Here are some other instances: ’ ’   In August, Trump found himself in hot water when he  President Barack Obama of being the   founder of ISIS at a campaign rally in Florida. ’ ’   The next day, in an interview with conservative radio host Hugh   Hewitt, he doubled down on the claim, even when Hewitt seemed to   be giving Trump an out. ’ ’   ”Last night you said the president was the founder of ISIS,”   Hewitt said. ”I know what you meant. You meant that he created   the vacuum, he lost the peace.” ’ ’   Trump fired back:  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   In late July, Trump managed to steal some of the   spotlight from the Democratic National Convention when he   apparently invited Russian hackers to dig up thousands of deleted   emails from Hillary Clinton’s private email server. ” ’   ”Russia, if you’’re listening, I hope you’’re able to find the   30, 000 emails that are missing,” Trump  in Miami. ’ ’   He later tweeted a similar invitation: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tIf Russia or any other country or person has Hillary Clinton’s 33, 000 illegally deleted emails, perhaps they should share them with the FBI! ’t’t” ’   Trump was referring to the emails Clinton said she deleted   because they were personal in nature. ’ ”   The comments came after Clinton’s camp publicly suspected   Russian hackers of breaching the Democratic National Committee’s   computer networks, and leaking emails from top officials to   WikiLeaks. ” ’   Trump was  for his remarks by cybersecurity   experts and intelligence officers, as well as leaders from   both major political parties. ’ ”   The Republican’s advisers immediately attempted to clarify   that the remarks were    and Trump himself  he was being sarcastic. ” ’  ’ ’   At a campaign rally in August, Trump suggested gun owners could   take matters into their own hands to prevent Clinton   from using the Supreme Court to abolish the Second   Amendment. ’ ’   ”Hillary wants to abolish, essentially abolish, the Second   Amendment,”  at the rally in North Carolina. ”By the way, and   if she gets to pick  —   if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you   can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people  —   maybe there   is, I don’’t know.” ’ ’   Prominent lawmakers and pundits interpreted the comment as a call   for violent action against Clinton, although Trump and his   surrogates insisted he was referring to a ”.” ’ ’   Meanwhile, House Speaker Paul Ryan . ’ ’   ”I heard about this Second Amendment quote. It sounds like just a   joke gone bad,” Ryan said to reporters in Wisconsin. ”I hope he   clears it up very quickly. You should never joke about something   like that.” ’ ’   On Monday,  he would no longer defend or campaign for   Trump, and instead focus his efforts on maintaining a Republican   majority in Congress. Ryan did not withdraw his endorsement of   Trump, however. ’