’  ’ ’   Donald Trump, the Republican presidential nominee,    Tuesday, signaling a return to the combative and undisciplined   candidate he was during the contested GOP primaries. ’ ’   The   tycoon, fighting off controversy stemming from a   2005 leaked audio tape in which he boasted about his sexual   exploits with women, widened his field of battle by  at House Speaker Paul Ryan,   the   elected Republican in the country, and   Arizona Sen. John McCain, the 2008 GOP nominee for president. ’ ’   Trump pummeled Ryan as a “very weak and ineffective leader” and   characterized McCain as a “foul mouthed” senator who “begged” for   his support. ’ ’   The tycoon’s stinging rebukes came after both Ryan and McCain   publicly distanced themselves from Trump’s fledgling campaign. ’ ’   A spokesperson for Trump would not clarify whether the   billionaire still supported the reelection campaigns of   Ryan and McCain, but with only 28 days until Election Day,   the move to even attack “disloyal” Republicans within his own   party was an unprecedented move in American politics. ’ ’   “Donald Trump is like a wounded animal in the forest just   thrashing out at anything in his field of vision. He’s unhinged,”   said Ryan Williams, a former spokesman for 2012 Republican   presidential nominee Mitt Romney. ’ ’   He added: “Any loyalty to the party he may have had is gone. He’s   never really been a team player. It’s clear he does not care   about the Republican party or anyone else who is running on the   ballot this year. This is all about Donald Trump. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Throughout the primary season, Trump embraced a more primal   outlook toward politics, not hesitating to lash out at those who   criticized him and often veering from a   vision.   But for a stretch of a few weeks in late August and September, it   appeared that his advisers had finally convinced him to stick to   an   script. ’ ’   The increasingly isolated Trump shook that off on Tuesday,   signaling he was perhaps done listening to those in his    . ’ ’   “It is so nice that the shackles have been taken off me,” he   wrote on Twitter, “and I can now fight for America the way I want   to. ” ’ ’   The Republican National Committee has, thus far, stood by   silently. A spokesperson did not return a request for comment   about Trump’s attacks on his own party. ’ ’   “The RNC is stuck with Trump, who is likely to lose and then   blame THE RNC,” explained Scott Jennings, a former special   assistant to former President George W. Bush, in an email to   Business Insider. ’ ’   Jennings added that it would not be “feasible” for the RNC to   distance itself from Trump, especially because “volunteers   largely show up in presidential election years to help elect a   president. ” ’ ’   “HOW DO YOU STOP THEM from mentioning the nominee during phone   and door interactions? You can’t,” he wrote. “The RNC distancing   itself from Trump at this point would be akin to Carl Spackler   slinking off the 18th green after the golfing priest for   whom he was caddying gets struck by lightning. ” ’ ’   Williams agreed, characterizing party chairman Reince Priebus as   in an “impossible spot. ” ’ ’   “There is not much they can do,” he said. “They are not in charge   of this process. The best they can do is get Trump to shut up and   move forward. ” ’ ’   Persuading Trump to muzzle his cravings to lash out at each of   his Republican critics may prove difficult, however, as Williams   acknowledged. ’ ’   “I don’t think there is anybody that can control Trump,” Williams   said. “He does whatever he feels like. ” ’