’Websites feel almost passé in the world of apps.’ ’But as anyone who works at a desk for a living can tell you, we still spend a lot of time staring at computer monitors, looking at websites.’ ”We’ve put together a list of websites you should visit every so often to make sure you’re the best person and man you can be.” ”We’ve covered everything from how you dress to how you manage your money, so you can be the true renaissance man you know you are.” ”If you’re a fan of pricey watches and you’re not reading  yet, you should.” ”There’s no better place to learn about luxury watches on the internet  —   no matter if you’re already an expert or a novice on the subject. It has plenty of material to get you up to speed on everything, as well as news about the latest and greatest in the world of horology.” ” is a men’s interest blog dedicated to the finer things in life, including travel, food and drink, style, and more.” ’The goal here is to tell you what you need to know as efficiently as possible and in a stylish way.’ ”You wouldn’t think of going on a vacation without hitting up  and seeing how people have ranked the coolest spots.” ”Sure, it’ll only give you some of the most popular places  —   no deep cuts here. But it’ll help you avoid some of the spots that just aren’t worth the hype.” ” is one of the best men’s style blogs for one simple reason: It actually gives you clothing recommendations.” ’It highlights a particular style  —   say, bomber jackets  —   and gives you several real recommendations at different price points.’ ” is one of the best places to find out what’s good to eat in your city.” ”It’s easily and transparently scored, and even recommends dishes. And these people know food  —   it’s a true   shop for dining for America’s biggest food cities.” ” keeps track of your financials and spending so you don’t have to.” ”Add your accounts, and it’ll show you in multiple ways and charts how your income and spending stack up. Invaluable.” ’ is great. Yes, sometimes it goes a little far with #menswear #trends, and there are only so many ways you can implore men to care about how their suits fit, but its advice is timeless.’ ’ is the source for independent  —   and increasingly mainstream  —   music.’ ”If you care at all about having your finger on the pulse of what’s popular in the music world, this is a  .” ’OK, we know  is a bit obvious.’ ”But it’s still a great resource for any and all topics, from current events to an extremely wide range of historical content.” ” is more than the best place to buy luxury men’s clothing.” ”The stylists are so good, it’s actually a great place to get ideas of how to put those clothes together. It’s also carefully curated and bought, so you’ll never find a terrible item of clothing.” ’Full of actually useful financial advice that every guy can use,  is one of the best for guys without a lot of time to see if their credit card rewards are the best for their situation.’ ’It dispenses valuable,      personal finance advice. What more could you want?’