’  ’ ”   Donald Trump Jr. suggested to a Charlotte radio station on   Tuesday that he’s made similar comments to the remarks his   father made about women in a leaked 2005 tape. ” ’   In the tape, Donald Trump boasted about kissing and groping   women. Trump Jr. said such remarks made his   father sound more ”human.” ’ ’   ”I’’ve had conversations like that with plenty of people where   people use language off color,” Trump Jr.   told .  ’ ’   He continued: ”They’’re talking, two guys, amongst themselves.   I’’ve seen it time and time again. I think it makes him a human. I   think it makes him a normal person, not a political robot. He   hasn’’t spent his whole life waiting for this moment to run for   the presidency.” ’ ’   He did say that his family is ”not happy” with what the Manhattan   billionaire said. ’ ’’ ’   ”I think most American people just say, you know what, I’’ve   probably said those kind of things myself,” Trump Jr. added.   ”So, we’’re not happy that he said, that’’s for sure, I get that   but I think it means that he’’s a human being that he’’s a regular   person like everyone else. I think that’’s what endeared him to   the American public.”  ’ ’   Of the recent allegations of unwanted sexual advances,   specifically those reported in The New York Times against his   father, Trump Jr. said he’’s ”never heard anything dumber in my   life.”  ’ ’   ”All of sudden, two, three weeks before election, someone comes   out  —   it’’s not like he hasn’’t been in the public eye for 30   years,” he said. ’ ’   Trump Jr. added that the attacks were ”probably a   typical New York Times smear campaign.” He said that   his father may sue the newspaper. ’ ’   ”They keep libeling and doing these kind of things I imagine that   would be the intention,” he said. ”It’’s one thing to report the   news, it’’s another to try to smear someone’’s name time and time   again for political motives and political gain. So I imagine   that would certainly be on his mind.” ’ ’   Trump Jr. also targeted the media for spending less time   discussing the leaked Hillary Clinton campaign emails than   the    tape of Trump. ’