SEOUL, South Korea  —   South Korea’s National Assembly voted Friday on a motion to impeach President Park   whose government has been consumed by a corruption scandal. The motion accuses her of “extensive and serious violations of the Constitution and the law. ” Prosecutors have also accused her of crimes in connection with the scandal, though as president she cannot be indicted. Here are the accusations against Ms. Park, which she has dismissed, through her spokesman and her lawyer, as a “house of cards”: Extortion and abuse of power  In their indictment of Ms. Park’s longtime friend Choi   which named Ms. Park as an accomplice, prosecutors made the following accusations: • In 2014, Ms. Park told an aide, Ahn   to help a company run by one of Ms. Choi’s associates secure a contract with Hyundai Motor. Mr. Ahn relayed the request to Hyundai, and the company won an $860, 000 contract. Ms. Choi received kickbacks worth $44, 000, including a Chanel handbag, from her associate. • In a series of meetings in July 2015, Ms. Park asked the chairmen of eight large companies to contribute to two new foundations, meant to promote South Korean culture and sports. Ms. Park asked Ms. Choi to build and run them. With the help of presidential aides, Ms. Choi pressured the companies into donating the equivalent of $69 million to the foundations. • In January of this year, Ms. Choi started a sports management company called the Blue K. With the backing of Ms. Park and Mr. Ahn, she coerced the conglomerate Lotte into donating $6 million for a sports complex that the company hoped to build and manage. In February, Ms. Park asked the steel maker Posco to help Ms. Choi’s company under pressure from Mr. Ahn, Posco agreed to create a fencing team so that the Blue K could manage it. • In February, again under Ms. Park’s orders, Mr. Ahn asked Hyundai and KT, a telecommunications firm, to hire Ms. Choi’s advertising agency. Both complied, and the agency made $1. 2 million from the contracts. Prosecutors say these companies feared tax investigations or other forms of official retaliation if they refused the requests. At a recent hearing in the National Assembly, the companies’ chairmen confirmed that the requests had come directly from Ms. Park or her aides and said it would have been difficult to say no. Ms. Park acknowledges that she met with the tycoons but denies that coercion occurred. She has said that she helped create the foundations for the public good and that she never personally profited from them. Ms. Choi has also denied the accusations against her. Leaking confidential government documents Prosecutors say Ms. Park told another aide, Chung   to give 180 sets of government documents, 47 of them classified, to Ms. Choi between January 2013 and April of this year. They contained, among other things, information about who would be appointed to senior government jobs, including national intelligence director. Ms. Choi held no official post and had no security clearance. Violating the Constitution  In their motion to impeach Ms. Park, opposition parties cite the accusations listed above, calling them violations of her constitutional obligations to defend democracy and the market economy. In addition, they say she violated the Constitution in the following ways: • By conspiring to install associates of Ms. Choi in her government, then letting Ms. Choi use those people to wield influence and win lucrative contracts. The opposition also says Ms. Park caused people in the government to be demoted or fired for trying to draw attention to Ms. Choi’s activities. • By forcing a newspaper to fire its president in 2014 after it published articles about Ms. Choi’s purported influence. That undermined the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of the press, the opposition says. • By failing to provide a full account of her activities on April 16, 2014, the day more than 300 people were killed when a ferry sank in South Korean waters. Ms. Park did not emerge from her residence for several hours that day, and the opposition says the public has a constitutional right to know what she was doing. This accusation has little if anything to do with the others, but Ms. Park’s critics have long held her government responsible for the sinking, one of the country’s worst peacetime disasters. Bribery  The impeachment motion also accuses Ms. Park of soliciting bribes, arguing that the donations to Ms. Choi’s foundations were made with the expectation of favors from the government. The companies’ chairmen have denied this.