’  ’ ’   The most important thing we have learned this year is that,   when the Republican Party was hijacked by a dangerous   fascist who threatens to destroy the institutions that make   America great and free, most Republicans up and down the   organizational chart stood behind him and . ’ ’   Some did this because they are fools who do not understand why   Trump is dangerous. ’ ’   Some did it because they were naïve enough to believe he could be   controlled and manipulated into implementing a normal Republican   agenda. ’ ’   Of course, there were the minority of Republicans who did what   was right and withheld their support from Trump: people    Nebraska   Sen. Ben Sasse, and   CEO and megadonor Meg   Whitman, the latter of whom called Trump ”a threat to the   survival of the republic.” ’ ’   I want to focus on a fourth group: Republican politicians   who understand exactly how dangerous Donald Trump is, but who   have chosen to support him anyway for reasons of strategy,   careerism, or cowardice. ’ ’   I am talking, for example, about Sen. Marco Rubio, who in the   primary called Trump an ”erratic individual” who must not be   trusted with nuclear weapons  —   and then endorsed him for   president. ’ ’   I am talking about Sen. Ted Cruz, who called Trump a   ”pathological liar” and ”utterly amoral”  —   and  even though   Trump never apologized for threatening to ”spill the beans” on   Cruz’’s wife and suggesting Cruz’’s father was   involved in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. ’ ’   Most of all, I’’m talking  a man whose   pained, blue eyes suggest he desperately wants to cry for   help. He’’s a man who runs around the country pathetically trying   to pretend that Trump does not exist and that the key issue is   his congressional caucus’’ ”Better Way” agenda. And he’’s a man   who, of his own free will, seeks to help Donald Trump become   president. ’ ’   These men are not fools like Ben Carson. ’ ’  ’ ’   To borrow a phrase from Rubio, they know exactly what they   are doing: They are taking an action that risks the destruction   of the American republic to advance their personal interests. ’ ’   They know what Meg Whitman knows about the risks Trump poses to   America. Rubio himself warned specifically of the risk of Trump   starting a nuclear war! But they do not care. ’ ’   I can only conclude from the available evidence that   they love their careers more than they love   America. And they are why I quit the Republican   Party this week. ’ ”   I’m not a conservative. I know a lot of you already   thought my Republican affiliation was a trolling exercise,   and honestly, my registration change . ” ”   I became a Republican as a teenager because of my upbringing in   Massachusetts, a state where the GOP has produced five   good governors in my lifetime, from Bill Weld (now the   Libertarian Party’s vice presidential nominee) to Charlie Baker.   I worked for Mitt Romney when he ran for governor, and while I   did not like his presidential campaigns, I think he has a record   in Massachusetts he can be proud of. ” ’   All four living current and former Republican governors of   Massachusetts oppose Trump. ’ ’   I stayed a Republican because of my background working   in state and local government finance, a policy area where a     Republican Party can bring important   restraint. I have voted Republican, for example, in each of the   last three New York City mayoral races. ’ ”   I don’t think it was ridiculous to be in a party that I disagreed   with on a lot of national issues. Change is made through party   coalitions, and I thought the Republican Party was where I   was more likely to be able to improve ideas at the margin in   the long run. Being a member of a party does not obligate you to   vote for its bad candidates in the meantime. ” ’   But what this election has made clear is that policy is not the   most important problem with the Republican Party. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Republican Party had a fundamental vulnerability:   Because of the  so many of its voters live in, and   because of the  that had been willfully whipped up by   so many of its politicians, it was possible for the party to be   taken over by a fascist promising revenge. ’ ”   And because there are only two major parties in the United   States, and either of the parties’ nominees can become president,   such a vulnerability in the Republican Party constitutes a   vulnerability in our democracy. ” ”   I can’t be a part of an organization that creates that kind of   risk. ” ’   My editor asked why I became a Democrat instead of an   independent. I did that because I believe political parties   are key vehicles for   and choosing not to join   one is choosing to give up influence. ’ ’   I agree with Sasse, the senator from Nebraska, that parties exist   in service of policy ends, and that loyalty to the party  on whether loyalty serves those ends.   Because of this, it is worth joining a party even if you do   not intend to be a partisan, and even if you will often oppose   what the party does. ’ ”   Sasse was one of the earliest and loudest voices of resistance to   Trump in the Republican Party, and after the   civil war   that is sure to ensue from Trump’s loss, I wonder whether he will   decide remaining in the GOP does a service to the ends he cares   about. ” ”   Sasse is a lot more conservative than I am, so I don’t expect him   to become a Democrat. It makes sense for people like him and   Kasich to try, after the election, to wrest control of the party   away from the conspiracy nuts and  . ” ”   But I believe they will fail. And I’m not going to stick around   to watch.  ” ’ CORRECTION: An earlier version of this article said Ted Cruz   had called Donald Trump a ”con artist.” It was Marco Rubio who   called him that. It’’s become difficult to keep track of which   Trump endorsers said which things about Trump’’s manifest   unfitness to be president. ’