’  ’ ’   Notice anything unusual about the following Donald Trump quotes? ’ ’   ”People don’’t know how well we’’re doing with  the Latinos.” ’ ’   ”I have a great relationship . I’ve always had a great relationship with   the blacks.” ’ ’   ”I love . I think they’’re great people.” ’ ’   ” what they think and what they do.” ’ ’   ”I will be phenomenal to .”  ’ ’   The blacks. The Muslims. The gays. ’ ’   In each sentence, Trump precedes the name of a demographic   subgroup with the definite article ”the.” ’ ”   It’s a peculiar rhetorical habit that’s drawn the attention  —   and     —   of voters around the country. Some social media   users are convinced the quotes are evidence of Trump’s   prejudice toward other groups. ” ’   His phrasing of ”Ask the gays” was mocked endlessly on Twitter,   achieving  among disapproving users.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tOfficial response from our leader.   ’ ’   But what is it about ”the gays” that sounds off to some people?   Why does ”the blacks” sound racist compared to just   ”blacks”? ’ ’  ’ ’   ”There’s this distancing effect, like they’re over there,” Acton   told Business Insider. ”They’re signaling they’re not part of it,   they’re distancing themselves from it.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In addition to distancing the speaker from the group in question,   pegging a group with the article ”the” suggests   that members of that group act and think homogeneously,   Acton said. It’’s a sentiment shared by University of Toronto   linguist Sali Tagliamonte.  ’ ’   ”It’’s drawing a circle around a certain group of people. It’’s a   very   kind of expression,” Tagliamonte told   Business Insider. ”It’’s a very delineating thing that could make   members of that group think they’’re being pigeonholed.” ’ ’   Trump’’s unusual speech pattern isn’’t limited to groups   facing discrimination. As linguist Mark Liberman noted    on Language Log, Trump once complained   that ”the whites” don’’t receive BET Award nominations. ’ ’   Trump isn’’t the only person to speak this way, however.   Tagliamonte found that the phrase ”the blacks” has been in   use for more than two centuries, with spikes in the phrase’’s   popularity coinciding with critical periods of     history. ’ ’ ’ ’   Tagliamonte also found that older speakers tend to use the phrase   more than younger speakers, based on a review of her previous   linguistic data. ’ ’   Of course, most people are not running for president. ’