’  ’ ’   Glenn Thrush, a top Politico reporter, found himself in hot water   for an email he sent in 2015 to Hillary Clinton campaign chairman   John Podesta. ’ ’   Thrush, who was working on a story in April 2015 about   ”,” asked Podesta   if he could look over a couple of paragraphs that pertained   to him. ’ ’   ”Because I have become a hack i will send u the whole section   that pertains to u,” Thrush wrote. ’ ’   The Politico reporter added: ”Please don’’t share or tell anyone I   did this. Tell me if I       anything up.” ’ ’  ’ ’’ ’   Sending paragraphs from a story to ensure accuracy is not   uncommon in journalism, and there is no proof that Podesta asked   to have anything changed. Later in the email thread, he said ”no   problems here.” ’ ’   Nevertheless, Thrush found himself under fire online. ’ ’   Charles Cooke,  a   conservative publication, wrote in a tweet that ”of course   this is who you are, @GlennThrush.” ’ ’   Dan Froomkin, Washington editor at The Intercept, a     publication, was similarly condemning of the leaked email. ’ ’   ”Prediction: @politico will not fire @GlennThrush because then   they’d have to fire MOST OF THEIR STAFF,” .” ’ ’   Asked if the ordeal violated editorial standards, Brad Dayspring,   Politico’’s vice president of communications, said in a statement   to Business Insider that Thrush’’s job is not to ”appear perfect   when someone illegally hacks email.” ’ ’   ”Glenn is one of the top political reporters in the country, in   no small part because he understands that it is his job is to get   inside information, not appear perfect when someone illegally   hacks email,” Dayspring said. ”Cutting through the clutter, what   is clear in this case is that Glenn got the chairman of the   notoriously secretive Clinton campaign  —   who is not typically a   font of detail  —   to confirm a bunch of inside information that he   culled from other sources.” ’ ’   ”I can speak with firsthand knowledge and experience that Glenn   checks the validity of often complex reporting with everybody, on   both sides of the aisle,” he added. ’ ’   The Clinton campaign has said Russia is behind the WikiLeaks   hacks, attempting to swing the election in favor of Donald   Trump.  ’