’  ’ ’   An 11th woman came forward Saturday to accuse Donald Trump   of sexual misconduct, alleging that Trump or one of his   associates once offered her $10, 000 to accept a ”private   invitation” to his suite. ’ ’   Jessica Drake made the allegations during a press conference with     attorney Gloria Allred, who has represented two   other women making accusations of sexual misconduct the   Republican nominee in recent weeks. ’ ’   Drake said the incident with Trump took place in 2006, while she   was working for the   company Wicked Pictures. The two   were attending a golf tournament in Lake Tahoe. ’ ’   She said after meeting Trump and touring the golf course with   him, he invited her to his penthouse suite. Drake said she   accepted but brought two other women, as she ”didn’’t feel right”   going alone. ’ ’   Once there, Drake said, Trump grabbed each woman tightly and   kissed them without their consent. ’ ’’ ’   After she left, Drake said she received calls from Trump, who she   said asked her to return to his suite and invited her to a party. ’ ’   When Drake declined, she said, Trump asked her, ”What do you   want? How much?” ’ ’   After continuing to decline and saying she had to return to Los   Angeles for work, Drake said she received another call, either   from Trump or a man calling on his behalf, offering $10, 000 and   use of his private jet if she accepted his private invitation. ’ ’   ”This is not acceptable behavior for anyone, much less a   presidential candidate,” Drake said at the press   conference. ”I realize that in this situation, I may be but   a tiny grain of sand, but clearly this is an enormous beach.” ’ ”   Drake said she told some friends about the experience immediately   after it happened, but that she wouldn’t share their names with   the press. ” ’   ”I understand that I may be called a liar or an opportunist, but   I will risk that in order to stand in solidarity with women who   share similar accounts that span many, many years,” Drake said. ’ ’   Trump has denied all allegations against him, and said earlier on   Saturday he plans to sue his accusers after Election Day.   His campaign released a statement Saturday afternoon calling   Drake’’s accusations ”totally false and ridiculous.” ’ ’   ”Mr. Trump does not know this person, does not remember this   person and would have no interest in ever knowing her. This is   just another attempt by the Clinton campaign to defame a   candidate who just today is number one in three different polls,”   the statement read. ’ ’   Last week, after another woman and former ”Apprentice” candidate   whom Allred is representing came forward with allegations of   sexual misconduct, Trump attacked Allred as part of his response   to the accusations. ’ ’   ”When Gloria Allred is given the same weighting on national   television as the President of the United States, and unfounded   accusations are treated as fact, with reporters throwing due   diligence and   to the side in a rush to file their   stories first, it’s evident that we truly are living in a broken   system,” he said then. ’