’  ’ ”   It’s official. AT&T will buy Time Warner for $107. 50 per   share, or $85. 4 billion. ” ’   They announced the agreement Saturday night, following a string   of reports in recent days that appeared to have accelerated the   talks between the two companies. ’ ’   The move means AT&T will own networks like CNN, HBO, TNT, and   several other media properties. AT&T will likely face a harsh   regulatory process, but there is some precedent. Comcast, another   operator, was allowed to buy NBC Universal in 2013. ’ ’   On Saturday, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump pledged   to block the acquisition. Sen. Al Franken ( .) released a   statement to Business Insider saying he’’s ”skeptical of huge   media mergers because they can lead to higher costs, fewer   choices, and even worse service for consumers.” ’ ’   The companies said in a statement that the deal will allow   AT&T to deliver Time Warner content to any device as viewing   habits shift from traditional linear TV to over the top   web and   services. ’ ’’ ’   AT&T gains loads of valuable properties in the deal, ranging   from ”Harry Potter” to ”Game of Thrones” to all the super heroes   in the DC comics universe. ’ ’   This is the second mega deal for AT&T in the past year.   AT&T merged with DirecTV in 2015 and plans to launch a   streaming TV service later this year. The ultimate goal is to   provide all DirecTV content over the internet without the need   for a satellite dishes by 2020. ’ ”   It’s also a much different approach than AT&T’s rival   Verizon, which is going after online content instead of TV   content through its purchase of AOL and its impending purchase of   Yahoo. AT&T appears to want to cash in on traditional TV   content and ad dollars while Verizon wants to go against Google   and Facebook for online ads. ” ’   By the way, AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson and Time Warner CEO   Jeff Bewkes are both speaking at  in December. Things just got   more interesting. ’ ”   Here’s the full announcement from AT&T: ” ’ AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) and Time Warner Inc. (NYSE:TWX) today   announced they have entered into a definitive agreement under   which AT&T will acquire Time Warner in a      transaction valued at $107. 50 per share. The agreement has been   approved unanimously by the boards of directors of both   companies. ’ ” The deal combines Time Warner’s vast library of content and   ability to create new premium content that connects with   audiences around the world, with AT&T’s extensive customer   relationships, world’s largest pay TV subscriber base and leading   scale in TV, mobile and broadband distribution. ” ’ “This is a perfect match of two companies with complementary   strengths who can bring a fresh approach to how the media and   communications industry works for customers, content creators,   distributors and advertisers,” said Randall Stephenson, AT&T   chairman and CEO. “Premium content always wins. It has been true   on the big screen, the TV screen and now it’s proving true on the   mobile screen. We’ll have the world’s best premium content with   the networks to deliver it to every screen. A big customer pain   point is paying for content once but not being able to access it   on any device, anywhere. Our goal is to solve that. We intend to   give customers unmatched choice, quality, value and experiences   that will define the future of media and communications. ’ ’ “With great content, you can build truly differentiated video   services, whether it’s traditional TV, OTT or mobile. Our TV,   mobile and broadband distribution and direct customer   relationships provide unique insights from which we can offer   addressable advertising and better tailor content,” Stephenson   said. “It’s an integrated approach and we believe it’s the model   that wins over time. ’ ’ “Time Warner’s leadership, creative talent and content are   second to none. Combine that with 100 million plus customers who   subscribe to our TV, mobile and broadband services  —   and you have   something really special,” said Stephenson. “It’s a great fit,   and it creates immediate and   value for our   shareholders. ” ’ ’ Time Warner Chairman and CEO Jeff Bewkes said, “This is a   great day for Time Warner and its shareholders. Combining with   AT&T dramatically accelerates our ability to deliver our   great brands and premium content to consumers on a multiplatform   basis and to capitalize on the tremendous opportunities created   by the growing demand for video content. That’s been one of our   most important strategic priorities and we’re already making   great progress  —   both in partnership with our distributors, and   on our own by connecting directly with consumers.  Joining   forces with AT&T will allow us to innovate even more quickly   and create more value for consumers along with all our   distribution and marketing partners, and allow us to build on a   track record of creative and financial excellence that is second   to none in our industry. In fact, when we announce our 3Q   earnings, we will report revenue and operating income growth at   each of our divisions, as well as   earnings   growth.   ’ ’ Bewkes continued, “This is a natural fit between two   companies with great legacies of innovation that have shaped the   modern media and communications landscape, and my senior   management team and I are looking forward to working closely with   Randall and our new colleagues as we begin to capture the   tremendous opportunities this creates to make our content even   more powerful, engaging and valuable for global audiences. ” ’ ’ Time Warner is a global leader in media and entertainment   with a great portfolio of content creation and aggregation, plus   iconic brands across video programming and   production.   Each of Time Warner’s three divisions is an industry leader: HBO,   which consists of domestic premium pay television and streaming   services (HBO Now, HBO Go) as well as international premium   & basic pay television and streaming services; Warner Bros.   Entertainment, which consists of television, feature film, home   video and videogame production and distribution. Warner Bros.   film franchises include Harry Potter & DC Comics, and its   produced TV series include Big Bang Theory and Gotham; Turner   consists of U. S. and international basic cable networks,   including TNT, TBS, CNN and Cartoon   Swim. Also,   Turner has the rights to the NBA, March Madness and MLB. Time   Warner also has invested in OTT and digital media properties such   as Hulu, Bleacher Report, CNN. com and Fandango. ’ ’  Customer Benefits  ’ ’ The new company will deliver what customers want  —   enhanced   access to premium content on all their devices, new choices for   mobile and streaming video services and a stronger competitive   alternative to cable TV companies. ’ ’ With a mobile network that covers more than 315 million   people in the United States, the combined company will strive to   become the first U. S. mobile provider to compete nationwide with   cable companies in the provision of bundled mobile broadband and   video. It will disrupt the traditional entertainment model and   push the boundaries on mobile content availability for the   benefit of customers. And it will deliver more innovation with   new forms of original content built for mobile and social, which   builds on Time Warner’s HBO Now and the upcoming launch of   AT&T’s OTT offering DIRECTV NOW. ’ ’ Owning content will help AT&T innovate on new advertising   options, which, combined with subscriptions, will help pay for   the cost of content creation. This   business model  —       and    —   gives customers the largest   amount of premium content at the best value. ’ ’  Summary Terms of   Transaction      ’ ’ Time Warner shareholders will receive $107. 50 per share under   the terms of the merger, comprised of $53. 75 per share in cash   and $53. 75 per share in AT&T stock. The stock portion will be   subject to a collar such that Time Warner shareholders will   receive 1. 437 AT&T shares if AT&T’s average stock price   is below $37. 411 at closing and 1. 3 AT&T shares if AT&T’s   average stock price is above $41. 349 at closing. ’ ’ This purchase price implies a total equity value of $85. 4   billion and a total transaction value of  $108. 7 billion, including Time Warner’s net debt.     Time Warner shareholders will own   between 14. 4% and 15. 7% of AT&T shares on a     basis based on the number of AT&T shares   outstanding today.  ’ ’ The cash portion of the purchase price will be financed with   new debt and cash on AT&T’s balance sheet. AT&T has an     commitment for an unsecured bridge term facility for $40   billion. ’ ’  Transaction Will Result in Significant Financial   Benefits  ’ ’ AT&T expects the deal to be accretive in the first year   after close on both an adjusted EPS and free cash flow per share   basis. ’ ’ AT&T expects $1 billion in annual run rate cost synergies   within 3 years of the deal closing. The expected cost synergies   are primarily driven by corporate and procurement expenditures.   In addition, over time, AT&T expects to achieve incremental   revenue opportunities that neither company could obtain on a   standalone basis. ’ ’ Given the structure of this transaction, which includes   AT&T stock consideration as part of the deal, AT&T   expects to continue to maintain a strong balance sheet following   the transaction close and is committed to maintaining strong     credit metrics. ’ ’ By the end of the first year after close, AT&T expects   net debt to adjusted EBITDA to be in the 2. 5x range. ’ ’ Additionally, AT&T expects the deal to improve its   dividend coverage and enhance its revenue and earnings growth   profile. ’ ’ Time Warner provides AT&T with significant   diversification benefits: ’ ’ The merger is subject to approval by Time Warner Inc.   shareholders and review by the U. S. Department of Justice.    AT&T and Time Warner are currently determining which FCC   licenses, if any, will be transferred to AT&T in connection   with the transaction. To the extent that one or more licenses are   to be transferred, those transfers are subject to FCC review. The   transaction is expected to close before   2017. ’