’  ’ ’   Conservative commentator Tomi Lahren, a host on TheBlaze TV,   suggested in an interview published Monday that the Clintons are   responsible for the murders of several people. ’ ”   Lahren posts a daily commentary video that regularly generates   millions of views online. On Monday it was  she would contribute to a   nightly online television program Donald Trump, the Republican   nominee, was launching through his campaign’s Facebook account. ” ’   Lahren’s remarks came on . The host,   Weinstein, asked Lahren if she stood by a similar claim she had   made in the past. ’ ’   “You went on to say that the Clintons have a high body count. Do   you believe that the Clintons really are killing people?”   Weinstein asked. ’ ’   Here’s the full exchange: ’ ’’ ”   The conspiracy theories Lahren perpetuated have been widely   debunked. Foster’s death, for instance, was ruled as a suicide by   six different investigations. ” ’   A spokesperson for TheBlaze said in a statement to Business   Insider that Lahren was an ”extremely popular personality” and   ”entitled to her personal views.” ’ ”   The spokesperson also said that contrary to the   initial tweet announcing her involvement in Trump’s nightly   newscast, which was later deleted, Lahren will not be a  .   Instead, she will serve as a contributor to the show. ” ’   The Trump campaign also did not immediately respond to a request   for comment. ’ ’   In the same interview with Weinstein, Lahren was asked to name   three books that have shaped her world view. ’ ’   “I’m going to be honest with you, I’m not a reader,” she said. “I   don’t like to read long books. ” ’ ’   Lahren said she enjoys reading the news and commentary, but she’s   more of a “watcher” and sits down to view news programs. ’ ’   “I have a very short attention span, so sitting down with a book   is very difficult for me,” she explained. ’ ” Editor’s note: This story has been updated to include comment   from a spokesperson for TheBlaze. ” ’ Disclosure: The author of this story was previously employed   by TheBlaze. ’