’  ’ ”   My colleagues Oliver Darcy and Pamela Engel have  of the Republican   Party’s captivity to its own disinformation complex of talk   radio and conservative websites that push both extremism and   false information. ” ’   Donald Trump has been helped by a   environment   in which there is no penalty for being wrong all the time, for   being openly bigoted, or for being obviously doomed to failure in   a general election. ’ ”   I just want to note that the Republican Party cannot be   fixed through the taming of its most committed members’ favorite   media outlets. The popularity of   figures who fill Republicans’ heads with disinformation    —   people like Sean Hannity and Alex Jones and Matt Drudge  —     is mostly a symptom of the problems in the party, not a   cause. ” ’   So before they try to bring figures like Hannity to heel,   conservatives should consider how someone like him came to be so   popular within their movement. ’ ’   If they look honestly enough, they will realize the conservative   information sphere has long been full of lies. The reason for   this is that lying has been the most effective way to   promote many of the policies favored by     conservatives, and so they built an apparatus to invent and   spread the best lies. ’ ”   For example, wealthy conservatives favor lower taxes on   themselves for the obvious reason that this lets them keep more   wealth for themselves. This is sensible enough from a perspective   of   and a defensible idea under some moral systems   (Ayn Rand’s, for example) but it is not a compelling electoral   argument. ” ’   So, conservatives built a network of think tanks   and magazines and pressure groups funded by wealthy   donors whose job was to come up with arguments that would sell   the donor class agenda to the masses. ’ ’   In a substantial number of happy instances, there was a valid   case to be made that what was good for the rich donors was also   good for everyone else, and these organs made that case. ’ ”   When there wasn’t such a case, conservatives had two options:   abandon their position, or make something up and   do their best to sell it. Prior to the creation of the broad   conservative information apparatus, conservatives   had done a fair bit of the former: Making peace with the New   Deal, for example, after repeated electoral shellackings in the   1930s and 1940s. ” ’  ’ ’   In recent years, they have increasingly chosen the latter option. ’ ’   For example, conservative think tanks have put out elaborate   models, purporting to show enormously positive economic benefits   from Republican plans to cut taxes on owners of capital and   spending on social programs. The point of these models is to show   that fiscal policy that would seem to be   regressive is actually good for everyone. ’ ’   These models rely on assumptions that are outside the   mainstream of economic opinion and overstate the economic   benefits of regressive fiscal policy. That is, they lie.   (See, for example,  for The New York Times last year and  in 2011.)  ’ ”   Climate change is another area where conservative disinformation   has been dressed up with numbers and eyeglasses. In each case,   the models’ lies come with math that is supposed to give the   lies an aura of authority. ” ’   This   approach to disinformation has led to   a weird set of conventions about which lies are okay to tell   and which are not. For example, you can promise your tax   cuts will generate 4% economic growth; 5% is considered silly.   Or, you must place your objection to   mitigation   downstream of the question of changing climate, rather than   outright denying that global temperatures are rising. ’ ”   Trump’s contribution to conservative messaging has not been the   introduction of widespread lying. Rather, it has been his   realization that you don’t have to just lie about what the donors   want lied about, and you don’t need a fake model, because   nobody’s paying attention to the numbers anyway. ” ’   You don’’t need an elaborate approach to ”dynamic scoring.” You   can just say, ”I’’ll make us so rich,” and mutter some nonsense   about the trade deficit, and you can convince approximately the   same set of voters. ’ ’  ’ ”   You don’t need a clever replotting of climate data when you can   just say the whole thing is a conspiracy invented by the Chinese. ” ’   Trump lies and lies and lies and lies and lies and he does not   even respect his supporters enough to lie well. You   would think he would get in trouble for this, but Republican   elites have spent so many years intentionally discrediting the   media and policy experts and others who would dare to tell the   truth about the public policy that his lies are, in fact,   convincing enough for the conservative base. ’ ”   As a result, the trouble with establishment conservatives’   complaints about new conservative media is that they’re not   really committed to an honest politics, just to a   differently dishonest politics. ” ’   Trump talks about a (fake) crime epidemic and a (fake)   invasion of Mexican criminals and a (fake) Chinese trade   conspiracy and a (fake) plot to rig the election. Do   conservative elites hate these claims because they are lies, or   because they are lies that do nothing in particular to advance   the interests of elite conservatives? ’ ”   Conservative elites might hope to put the lies back in their   box, where the subject matter of the lies is developed by   wealthy donors (establishment ones, ) who care mostly about taxes   and not the restoration of overt racism  —   and where the   quality of the lies becomes less embarrassingly low, so it’s not   so hard to go defend them on cable news without feeling like an   idiot. ” ”   That’s not going to work for a couple of reasons, the main one of   which is that Trump’s lies are more fun for Republican voters   than the usual set of lies. Another reason is that the old rules   boxing in the lies never made much sense  —   if you can say a   $4 trillion tax cut will pay for itself, why not a $10 trillion   one? ” ”   You can most easily tell you can’t put the conservative media   back in the box when you consider one of its most powerful   elements  —   email forwards and Facebook memes, which are   controlled by no authority and make profits for nobody (except   Facebook). ” ’   These media reflect the huge demand for   lies  —   even   if you shame Hannity out of the business, someone else will rise   up to offer these lies. The donors cannot ever regain control   over the machine. ’ ’   Furthermore, establishment Republicans should be careful   about any plan to rely on sunshine and reality and facts as   the antidote to Trumpism, as they will need to be prepared to   face uncomfortable facts of their own. ’ ”   A   environment wouldn’t just stop candidates from   running on a platform of bombing ISIS to take the oil and   getting Mexico to pay for the wall so we can beat China and be so   rich. A   environment will also be very inhospitable for   ordinary Republican policy platforms of the sort advanced by Ted   Cruz and Marco Rubio and Jeb Bush. ” ”   Bush’s  wasn’t more honest than Donald Trump’s   promises, it was just more artful. ” ”   If Republicans want to tell the truth and win elections,   they’re going to have to advance different policy ideas  —     and that’s why they lie. ”