’  ’ ”   Donald Trump on Tuesday called for an investigation into   President Barack Obama after hacked emails from Hillary Clinton   campaign chairman John Podesta, published by WikiLeaks,    Clinton’s use of a private email server. ” ’   In an interview  Trump called the revelation ”a   big thing.” ’ ’   ”This means that he has to be investigated,” Trump said. ’ ’   During a rally in Sanford, Florida, on Tuesday afternoon, Trump   addressed the latest emails. ’ ’   ”But newly public emails  —   WikiLeaks  —   prove otherwise,” he said   of Obama’’s knowledge of the private server Clinton used while she   was his secretary of state. ’ ’’ ’   The Republican presidential nominee said ”now I understand” why   Obama supported Clinton in the presidential election. ’ ’   ”Because he didn’’t want to get caught up in the big lie,” he   said. ”We have to investigate the investigation. We have to   investigate.” ’ ’   The  top Clinton aide   Cheryl Mills’’ response when Clinton’’s traveling press secretary,   Nick Merrill, forwarded  that quoted Obama as saying he learned about the   private server ”the same time everybody else” did. ’ ’   ”We need to clean this up,” Mills wrote to Podesta. ”He has   emails from her  —   they do not say state. gov.” ’ ”   The exchange seemed to imply that Obama knew about Clinton’s use   of a private email server, which would contradict what he said   during  in March 2015. ” ’   When CBS White House correspondent Bill Plante asked Obama when   he learned that Clinton used an email system outside the US   government for official business while she was secretary of   state, Obama responded, ”The same time everybody else learned it   through news reports.” ’ ’   The White House has addressed this supposed inconsistency. Press   secretary Josh Earnest said after the CBS interview aired that   Obama ”was referring specifically to the arrangement associated   with Secretary Clinton’’s email.” ’ ’   ”Yes, the president was aware of her email address,” Earnest   said. ”He traded emails with her. That shouldn’’t be a surprise   that the president of the United States is going to trade emails   with the secretary of state. But the president was not aware of   the fact that this was a personal email server and that this was   the email address that she was using exclusively for all her   business. The president was not aware of that until that had been   more widely reported.” ’ ”   The FBI investigated Clinton’s use of the server, but ultimately   declined to recommend the Justice Department move forward with   charges against her. ” ’   The Clinton campaign has tied WikiLeaks to Russian hackers   looking to swing the election in favor of Trump. US intelligence   has claimed Russia was behind the hacks of American political   organizations in 2016. ’ ’ Pamela Engel contributed to this report. ’