’  ’ ’  Warning: Spoilers ahead for ”Black Mirror” season 3,   episode one.  ’ ’   There’’s a reason the first episode of the new season of the hit   new Netflix series ”Black Mirror” is called ”Nosedive.” ’ ’   It envisions a world in which we’’re completely dependent upon   social media. Each of us chases after a desirable ”rating”  —   an   average score (out of 5 stars) that’’s affected by everything from   that sideways glance you gave the woman walking past you on your   morning commute to the lack of enthusiasm you displayed for the   birthday gift your   gave you. ’ ”   It’s not too   from the world we live in now. Just   imagine if you combined your Uber rating with the amount of likes   you got on Facebook and the number of replies you received on   Twitter in the last month. Now imagine that that singular rating   determined everything about your life, from where you worked to   the home you were eligible to live in. ” ’   Voila! Welcome to ”Nosedive.” ’ ’   This is precisely the reason ”Black Mirror” is so compelling.   It’’s not your typical science fiction, which envisions the world   100 or 1, 000 years from now. It imagines next year. Next month. ’ ’   A psychological principle called the ”hedonic treadmill” is the   real fuel that would, in theory, drive us toward this pathetic   and debilitating future. In essence, because we’’re always on the   hunt for that next thing that’’ll make us feel good, it’’s almost   impossible for us to just be  —   and just being, research   suggests, is one of the key ways to feel truly happy. ’ ’   In one particularly evocative scene, the main character, Lacie   Pound (played by Bryce Dallas Howard) discovers the only way she   can afford the apartment she wants  —   in the prestigious Pelican   Cove Lifestyle Community  —   is by raising her rating and becoming   a ”preferred” member. A higher score of a 4. 5, the leasing agent   tells her, would qualify her for a 20% discount. But she’’s   several percentage points away at a meager 4. 2. The remainder of   the plot focuses on Lacie’’s initially promising  —   but ultimately   devastating  —   attempt to raise her score by speaking at the   wedding of a childhood friend with an envious 4. 8 rating. ’ ’   In the end, after brandishing a knife in the middle of a very   public nervous breakdown, Lacie is arrested and jailed. The   episode ends in the middle of a vicious but comical     match between Lacie and the man in the cell   across from her. ’ ’  ’ ”   All of Lacie’s pursuits fall into line perfectly with the    which some psychologists have   used to explain why so many of us feel unsatisfied with our   lives. If we get a job promotion, for example, we’ll celebrate   and feel good for a moment, but those joyful emotions are   fleeting. Soon enough, we’ll be back to where we started  —   on the   hunt for the next   thing and, therefore, unhappy. In the   early 1990s, British psychologist Michael Eysenck likened     —     hence the name. ” ’   ”You’’re running but you’’re on that treadmill and you’’re not   getting anywhere in terms of happiness,” science journalist Wendy   Zukerman explained on a 2015 episode of her podcast series   ”” about happiness. ’ ’  ’ ”   Eventually that temporary boost in happiness you get from a job   promotion or marriage proposal will abate, and you’ll be back to   the same baseline level of happiness you were before the exciting   change. ” ”   And that’s precisely what Lacie Pound experiences. Every time she   gets a four or   rating, her bright blue eyes light up.   She smiles and giggles with a   glee. But at the end   of the day, Lacie is lonely and unsatisfied. She lives with her   brother. We don’t meet any of her close friends. She feels   alienated by her  . The wedding she’s attending is for a   friend who she has not been close with for ages and clearly   doesn’t trust. ” ”   In the part of the episode where Lacie views the apartment of her   dreams, she’s shown a virtual reality scene of herself making   dinner in the kitchen with a lover  —   and it’s this romantic   vision that seems to goad her into pursuing the 4. 5 rating. She   wants companionship. She wants relationships. And she’ll do   anything  —   even if it goes against her instincts, even if it’s   all, ultimately, a big lie  —   to get there. ” ”   Unfortunately, Lacie continues to pursue what she thinks   will make her happy, like a high social media rating, while   completely disregarding the things that might actually make her   happy, like friendships with her   or a real   relationship with her brother. In the real world, many of us make   Lacie’s mistake over and over again. ” ’ after  has found that when we engage with social media   platforms like Facebook and Twitter, we may feel a temporary   boost from likes or favorites, but there’’s absolutely no link   between social media use and   happiness. Some research   suggests the opposite, in fact: that social media use is linked   with an increase in negative feelings. A January   for example,   found a “strong and significant association between social media   use and depression.” Participants’’ depression levels, the   researchers found, increased alongside the total amount of time   spent using social media and the number of weekly visits to   social media platforms. ’ ’  ’ ’   Nevertheless, driven by the hedonic treadmill, we keep using it.   We ”check” Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram as if there’’s   something real there for us to find there. But all we ever get is   a ”like” or a ”fave.” And a swipe or a scroll is all it takes to   wipe them away. ’ ”   Fortunately,  suggests  will   ultimately drive us. That research helps explain why we don’t   merely spend all of our time doing pleasurable activities, and   why we still somehow manage to do things like work and chores.   Sure, we do sometimes gravitate towards things that make us feel   good in the  . But we also manage to do things that   aren’t inherently pleasant  —   like the laundry or the dishes  —     because we know those activities will help us feel satisfied in   the  . ” ”   This could be good news for those of us concerned with turning   into Lacie Pound. So long as we’re aware that social media   doesn’t turn into   happiness, we’ll always withdraw from   it  —   at least temporarily  —   to do things that will give   us those   rewards. ” ”   A  in the journal Proceedings of the   National Academy of Sciences which looked at the type of   activities people engage in when they’re either feeling happy or   feeling sad, for example, found that we tend to gravitate towards   boring activities like chores when we’re in a good mood. On the   other hand, we do things like going on a hike or getting drinks   with friends when we’re feeling low. This suggests that our   happiness is something of a reserve, the study authors told   Business Insider. ” ’   ”Our positive emotion, perhaps, can be seen as a resource,”    one of the study’’s lead authors and a   psychology professor at Barcelona’’s University Pompeu Fabra, told   us in August. ”When we don’’t have enough, we need to replenish   it, but as soon as we have enough, we can potentially use that to   get things done.” ’ ’   Of all the logged activities the researchers studied, spending   time with other people had the strongest link to positive   emotions, while using social media had either a neutral or   slightly negative link. ’ ”   In other words, since social media doesn’t do anything for our   longterm happiness, it’s tough to imagine a functioning society   that’s 100% dependent upon it. If we ever tried to create one,   most of us would probably end up like Lacie Pound does at the end   of the episode  —   screaming at a stranger from inside a prison   cell. ”