’  ’ ”   Hillary Clinton and some of her campaign’s top   officials blasted FBI Director James Comey on Saturday   afternoon over his decision to  that the   bureau had reopened its investigation into Clinton’s private   email server. ” ’   In a conference call with reporters, campaign chairman John   Podesta called the reaction to Comey’’s announcement ”overblown,”   and campaign manager Robby Mook said Comey’’s decision to send the   letter was ”completely unfair” to Clinton and to voters. ’ ’   ”It’’s completely unfair to Sec. Clinton and completely unfair to   voters,” Mook said. ”There’’s no reason he had to send this   letter.” ’ ’   Comey announced that the FBI is now reviewing new documents it   said were ”pertinent” to the Clinton email investigation.   Comey had previously announced in July that the   investigation was closed. ’ ’   The Clinton campaign called on Comey to release more information   on what the FBI has. ’ ’’ ’   ”By providing selective information, [Comey] has allowed   partisans to distort and exaggerate in order to inflict maximum   political damage,” Podesta said. ”And no one can separate what is   true from what is not because Comey has not been forthcoming with   the facts. What little Comey has told us makes it hard to   understand why this step was warranted at all.” ’ ’   Comey told Congress that the team in charge of looking into   Clinton’’s server briefed him Thursday on new emails it found ”in   connection with an unrelated case.” ’ ’   Podesta suggested that the emails the FBI has could be duplicates   of ones Clinton has already released. ’ ”   The emails were uncovered after the FBI seized devices belonging   to Huma Abedin and her husband, former congressman Anthony   Weiner, reports said. Prosecutors issued a subpoena for   Weiner’s cellphone and other records in late September amid   allegations that he had been sexting with a    girl. ” ’   ”There’’s no evidence of wrongdoing, no charge of wrongdoing, no   indication that this is even about Hillary,” Podesta said. ”It’’s   hard to see how this amounts to anything and we’’re not going to   be distracted, and Hillary is not going to be distracted in the   final days of this election, over nothing.” ’ ’   Podesta said the campaign stands behind Abedin, who has   cooperated ”fully” with the FBI investigation. ’ ’   Comey has faced criticism for making a statement about the   investigation even though the FBI doesn’’t typically comment on   ongoing investigations. He  that he felt an   ”obligation” to tell Congress about the investigation because he   ”testified repeatedly in recent months that our investigation was   completed.” ’ ’   Podesta blasted the decision. ’ ’   ”Director Comey was the one who wrote a letter that was light on   facts, heavy on innuendo, knowing full well what Republicans in   Congress would do with it,” he said. ”It’’s now up to him to give   the public answers to the questions that are now on the table.” ’ ’   Later Saturday during a rally in Florida, Clinton called Comey’’s   announcement ”strange.” ’ ’  ’ ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. ’