’  ’ ”   If you can’t buy them, copy them. ” ”   That’s the approach Facebook seems to have decided on for   Snapchat, the   app Mark Zuckerberg tried to buy in   2013 for around $3 billion, and which is now  that could value it as highly as $40 billion. ” ’   Now Zuckerberg has a new mantra for the future of sharing on   Facebook that’’s directly inspired by Snapchat: ”the camera is the   composer.” ’ ”   Zuckerberg shared the battle cry during   an   meeting with Facebook employees over the   summer, according to someone familiar with the   meeting. Since then, Facebook has rolled out a number of   features that can  as   —   the most obvious being     Instagram’s. ” ’   Facebook internally refers to the box above the News Feed where   you can share a new status as the ”composer.” That box   hasn’’t changed much over the past decade, but expect it to as   Facebook keeps making the camera a more prominent part of its   experience.  ’ ’  ’ ’   On Friday, Facebook  in   its main app that sends goofy selfies that disappear   after 24 hours. ’ ’   The test, which it simply calls ”the new camera,” is first   being made available in Ireland before rolling out to everyone. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Chris Cox, Facebook’s product chief, shed more light on   Facebook’s camera focus earlier this week at The Wall Street   Journal’s tech conference. ” ’   ”It’’s an area of work we’’re really invested in, which is making   it easy for the camera to be an early application of AR,” he   said.  ’ ’   He then demoed one of Facebooks’’ new ”reactive” filters for live   video that replicates the styles of famous paintings. Zuckerberg   later . ’ ’  ’ ”   Snapchat has always been an incredibly visual social network  —     people primarily use it to share mundane or silly photos that   disappear after they’re viewed.  ” ’   Snapchat founder Evan Spiegel  that his app opens to the camera by default   to encourage people to share and be creative. Snapchat has   already rebranded itself to Snap Inc. ”the camera company,” as   it prepares for its IPO.  ’ ”   Facebook may have missed its chance on owning the camera   company, but it hasn’t given up on being the camera. ”