’  ’ ”   The political tension in America’s tech capital is palpable. ” ’   Silicon Valley prides itself on being the home for the   contrarians, the disruptors, the people who want to see the world   be different. Peter Thiel, a founder of PayPal and outspoken   libertarian, embodies the cherished Silicon Valley ethos more   than anyone else. ’ ”   Yet somehow, Thiel’s support for Republican presidential   candidate Donald Trump, the ultimate political outsider, has made   Thiel a pariah and an open  in his hometown. ” ’   On Monday, Thiel gave a speech at the National Press Club to    whose vows to curb   immigration and to tear up free trade deals have made him deeply   unpopular in the tech industry. ’ ’   But even as many groups have lambasted Thiel and threatened to   sever ties with him, one group of techies is largely standing by   Thiel: the recipients of the  a program   that gives budding entrepreneurs a $100, 000 check if they drop   out of school and pursue their startup dreams. ’ ’’ ”   Diwank Singh Tomer, a 2013 fellowship recipient, said he’s been   fielding a lot of questions from friends in the Bay Area about   his ties to Thiel, although not as much as from people back home   in India. ” ’   ”Being an immigrant, I do not agree with the opinions and beliefs   of Donald Trump. And for the same reason, I disfavor Peter   Thiel’’s support for him,” Tomer told Business Insider in an   email. ”However, this does not change my opinion regarding the   Thiel fellowship in any manner. The fellowship has provided   brilliant opportunities to people like me.” ’ ’   Business Insider sent over 95 emails to the Thiel fellows we   could find contact information for. Of those, only a handful   responded, and many declined to comment given the possible   repercussions. The Thiel Foundation also declined to comment. ’ ’   Last year, more than 6, 000 people applied for 26 fellowship   slots. In the last five years, the Thiel fellowship has been   awarded to over 120 people, all ages 22 and below. ’ ”   It’s not yet clear if Thiel’s support for Trump will increase or   decrease the number of applications for this year’s batch of   fellowship slots. But for the aspiring tech moguls who have   already bought into Thiel’s business vision, the   ’s   political views are not a deal breaker. ” ’   Despite having multiple degrees, Thiel launched the fellowship in   2011 to offer an alternate path than the traditional education   system. The $100, 000 grants let fellows drop out or pause their   education for two years to pursue their ideas. Some, like James   Proud, have already sold a company and started another. Others   have created a startup or two before returning to school to   finish their degrees. ’ ’   The rising mountains of student debt is one reason Thiel started   the fellowship program  —   and it’’s one of the marquee reasons he   supports Trump. During his speech on Monday, Thiel said he’’s   voting for Trump partly because millennials are ”stuck” in a   ”broken system.” ’ ’   ”Our youngest citizens may not have huge medical bills, but their   college tuition keeps on increasing faster than the rate of   inflation, adding more every year to our $1. 3     mountain of student debt,” Thiel said. ”America has become the   only country where students take on loans they can never escape,   not even by declaring bankruptcy. Stuck in this broken system,   millennials are the first generation who expect their own lives   to be worse than the lives of their parents.” ’ ”   It’s a message that has stuck a chord with a lot of millennials. ” ”   William LeGate, a 2013 Thiel fellow, found that only some of his   friends on the West Coast really questioned Thiel’s ties to   Trump. In his hometown of Atlanta, no one has asked his opinion   of it, he said. Instead, some friends have asked about one of his   investors’ support of Hillary Clinton. ” ’   ”It’’s easy to live in Silicon Valley’’s echo chamber and vilify   Trump supporters just as it’’s easy to live in red states and   disparage liberals,” LeGate told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Peter has always been a contrarian, vocal about his views no   matter how popular or unpopular they may be. Who he supports   politically doesn’t change the fact that there’’s currently over   $1 trillion in student loan debt in the US and growing at a rate   of nearly $3, 000 per second, nor does it discredit the   significant resources he donates to philanthropic causes, of   which, the Thiel fellowship is only one,” LeGate said in an   email. ’ ’   ”I personally don’’t agree with all his views, but I believe it’’s   disparaging to half the country to suggest that supporting a     candidate in the US could in some way tarnish the   prestige of the fellowship or Peter’’s other philanthropic work.” ’ ”   His philanthropy, though, may be shielded from Silicon Valley’s   spears of disgust. While some venture capitalists  working with Thiel or Y Combinator, at   which he is an adviser, Tomer said he would have applied for the   fellowship even knowing of Thiel’s support of Trump today. ” ’   ”Again, Peter Thiel’’s support and funding of the Gawker lawsuit   would have kept my application to the fellowship undeterred,”   Tomer said. ”There are many people working behind the fellowship   program, and it will be absurd of me to discredit their efforts   and hard work because of the actions of Peter Thiel.” ’