’   Fox News host Sean Hannity on Monday shared a conspiracy theory   with his 1. 7 million Twitter followers which baselessly alleged   that Hillary Clinton was drunk at a rally last week. ’ ’   “God help us,” Hannity wrote on Twitter, retweeting the account   “MicroSpookyLeaks,” which claimed “Secret Service says Hillary   was drunk” in video taken of the October 27 event. ’ ’  ’ ’   Hannity later claimed in tweets that he only found the video   amusing and wasn’t actually trying to further the conspiracy   theory: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tTo all lib media peeps who follow me, especially those colluding with HRC, My last RT was about the video in general, not if she’s drunk.  ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI have zero knowledge if she was drinking. Now maybe you lib reporters can find time to investigate the laws HRC violated with her server.  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tOne last time, I RT’d this for ENTERTAINMENT ONLY. The Secret Service has NEVER SAID SHE WAS DRINKING! !! All u    go read ! !!  ” ’   But Hannity has promoted a similar theory in the past. His   website  on Friday citing a hacked   email published by WikiLeaks about Clinton needing to ”sober . ..   up.” ’ ’   A Fox News spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request   for comment. ’ ’   In recent days,   blogs have moved to suggest that   Clinton has a drinking problem. Most prominently, the Drudge   Report  showing the   former secretary of state consuming alcohol. ’ ’   Hannity, a devout supporter of Republican presidential nominee   Donald Trump, has not shied away from sharing conspiracy theories   to attack Clinton. ’ ’   Last week, the   host  on his television program to make outlandish claims   about the Democratic nominee. ’ ’   Hannity has said that he plans to do everything in his power to   help elect  Trump president. In the past, he   has  to   do so. ’ ’   A Fox News spokesperson did not respond to an inquiry last week   about whether Hannity giving platform to a National Enquirer   subject was in keeping with network editorial standards. ’