’  ’ ”   Nordstrom has responded to a shopper’s viral open letter   demanding that the retailer stop selling Ivanka Trump’s fashion   brand. ” ”   The company posted a response on Twitter Wednesday, saying   it’s not taking a political position by selling Trump’s products. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”When Ivanka appears with her father at his rallies to promote   his views, she also simultaneously promotes her clothing and   tweets about what she was wearing. Those products often sell out   quickly as a result,” she said. ”So it is inaccurate for   Nordstrom to say that it is not participating in politics or   taking a position when it is directly benefiting from Ivanka   promoting her wares at rallies where her father is making racist   and sexist comments.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI usually purchase Gucci from  but shopped with the Gucci boutique instead because Nordstrom carries Trump brand   ’ ’   She said she no longer feels comfortable shopping at Nordstrom. ’ ’   ”Last year, I spent over $15, 000 in that store,” she said. ”I   have spent roughly $8, 000 with Nordstrom this year to date, but I   have not shopped there for the past month and will not shop there   for the holiday season as a result of this boycott.” ’ ”   Laura said she rarely shops at stores other than Nordstrom, but   will be boycotting any other stores that carry the Trump brand,   including Macy’s, Neiman Marcus, and Bloomingdales. ” ”   Here’s the letter: ” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tAn open letter to  regarding Ivanka Trump’s toxic brand. Please share if you agree.   ” ”   Laura isn’t the only shopper boycotting Nordstrom and others that   carry Trump’s products. ” ”   The boycott movement was launched in   by brand   strategist Shannon Coulter. She launched the hashtag   #GrabYourWallet on Twitter, which has become a rallying cry in   the effort to take down Trump’s brand. ” ’   As of Monday, the #GrabYourWallet campaign had more than 119   million impressions on Twitter, which include retweets and likes,   . ’ ’   Some celebrities have shown support for the boycott, including   ”Ben & Jerry’’s cofounder Ben Cohen, writer Joyce Carol Oates,   Valerie Bertinelli, Lucy Lawless, and Oscar nominee Don Cheadle,”   according to The Wrap. ’ ”   There’s some evidence that the negative publicity has started   affecting Trump’s brand. ” ’   Searches for her products online soared between July and October,    citing data from ShopRunner. During a   week in October, searches for her products were up more than 335%   over April 2016, according to the data. ’ ’   But search traffic has taken a nosedive since the start of the   boycott. ’ ’   ”We certainly see in the data, in the last week or two, very much   timed with the boycott, the decline in interest, but hard to say   whether that’’s just a temporary blip,” ShopRunner CMO Angela Song   told Fast Company. ’ ’   But she    saying many women still support her. ’ ’   ”The beauty of America is people can do what they like, but I’’d   prefer to talk to the millions, tens of millions of American   women who are inspired by the brand and the message that I’’ve   created,” she said. ’ ”   In 2015, CNN    that Macy’s was would stop selling Donald Trump   merchandise  ”