’  ’ ’   After years of hype from the tech industry, we finally have a   smart home product that actually makes sense. ’ ”   WiFi speakers like Amazon’s Echo and the new Google Home are     types of computers, letting you do many of the same   tasks you’re used to on a smartphone with just your voice. ” ’   Both the Echo and Google Home are excellent products. But you can   only pick one. So, which should you choose? ’ ”   Let’s break it down. ” ”   The most disappointing thing about Google Home’s hardware is the   sound quality. It tends to be   which is annoying if   you want to listen to anything with some bass. ” ’   The Echo has much better sound, including rich bass. ’ ’   Neither speaker sounds amazing though. Luckily, both have options   that let you connect them wirelessly to standard stereo systems.   For Home, you can use the . For Echo, you can use the . ’ ’Winner: Amazon Echo ’ ’  ’ ”   Both speakers have incredible voice recognition. It even works   when music is playing or you’re standing across the room. ” ’Winner: Tie ’ ’   This one is subjective, but I think Google Home looks better than   the Echo. ’ ”   Yes, Home looks kind of like an Air Wick, but it’s also more   compact and has a more thoughtful design. The smaller size means   it’s easier to display, and the sloped top is a nice touch.   Google could’ve just made a   canister, but Home   has its own unique look that’ll match your home’s decor better.   Plus, you can customize the design by swapping out the bottom   speaker grill with different colors. ” ”   The Echo, on the other hand, isn’t much to look at. It’s just a   plain black or white cylinder that gives off a cold, industrial   vibe. The lights on top of the Echo are a nice touch, but other   than that, it’s not nearly as inviting as Home. ” ’Winner: Google Home ’ ’   Both speakers can do a lot of great stuff out of the box, but   things get even better when developers get to add their own apps   and services.  ’ ”   So far, there are limited options on Google Home. You can sync it   with popular music services like Spotify or Pandora. There’s also   Uber integration. But you won’t find much more than that until   more developers are able to build on Google Home. ” ’   Echo had over a year’’s head start on Google Home, and it has   hundreds of ”skills” from third parties ranging from Capital One   to Domino’’s Pizza. It’’s definitely the stronger of the two   ecosystems. ’ ’Winner: Amazon Echo ’ ’  ’ ’   This is the most important category, and the one that really   differentiates the two devices. ’ ”   While both Google Home and Amazon Echo have plenty of smarts,   Google has the advantage here because it’s able to tap into the   search giant’s trove of knowledge and stitch together the various   Google services you use like Gmail and Google calendar. All that   is thanks to the company’s new digital helper, Google Assistant,   which is only a few weeks old and already much more impressive   than Amazon’s Alexa or Apple’s Siri. ” ”   Echo can sync with your Google calendar and some other services,   but it’s simply not as refined as Google Assistant. And in the   future, I’m more confident in Google’s ability to make     smarter, faster than Amazon can make  . ” ’Winner: Google Home ’ ’  ’ ’   While both devices are essentially on par with each other, I   think Google Home has a slight edge because of Google Assistant.   You want these devices to be as smart as possible, and Google has   always had the advantage when it comes to AI and machine   learning. ’ ’   Plus, at $129, Google Home is $50 cheaper than the Amazon Echo. ’ ’   If you want to buy a connected speaker, check out Google Home   first. ’ ”   Just because I think Google Home is better doesn’t mean you   should abandon your Echo if you already own one. It’s still an   incredible device. In fact, I plan on keeping my Echo instead of   replacing it with a Google Home. It’s that good. ”