’  ’ ’   President Barack Obama, after all of his  in the final days of the presidential election, was   asked how he would feel about handing the power of the Oval   Office to a President Donald Trump. ’ ’   In a Friday night interview on MSNBC, Rev. Al Sharpton, an MSNBC   host, asked Obama to picture standing in front of a newly elected   Trump on inauguration day. ’ ’   ”Can you imagine how you would feel standing on the steps of the   Capitol having to hand over the power and watch him put his hand   on that Bible and become your successor?” he said. ’ ’   ”No,” Obama responded, succinctly. ’ ”   It is a multilayered notion for Obama to ponder, because of   Trump’s   history of questioning Obama’s legitimacy as a   president and as an American citizen. After five years of driving   the   birther movement, Trump only weeks ago acknowledged   publicly that he believes Obama was indeed born in the United   States. ” ’   The president continued Friday: ’ ’  ’ ’   Obama has been driving an  as the race tightens and the chances of a Trump   win inched closer to reality. However, he expressed some concern   that it may be hard to dislodge voter complacency, because the   idea of a Trump win is still   for many. ’ ’   ”The main thing that I’’ve been trying to explain to people is . ..   everything that we’’ve done over the last eight years will be   reversed with a Trump presidency,” Obama said. ’ ”   Peripheral disruptions from an FBI investigation of Clinton’s   private email server have added to the urgency on both the   Democratic and Republican sides  —   with the former seeking to   reassure voters, and the latter raising the volume of their   attacks on Clinton’s trustworthiness. ” ’   Despite this, Obama said he is heartened by what he has been   seeing on the campaign trail: ’ ’   ”The good news is that what we’’ve seen over the last several days   is in Florida, in North Carolina, in places all across the   country, votes generally have been up. We have seen in the     community big surges in early votes, big surges   in Latino votes, big surges in youth votes.” ’ ’   Reiterating his indictments of Trump’’s qualifications  —   and, in   some cases, lack thereof  —   Obama added: ”When you have a choice   . .. the idea that you would sit on the sidelines is   unacceptable.” ’