’  ’ ’   Donald Trump on Saturday criticized Jay Z for the  at a Hillary Clinton rally the night before, saying   that if he were to use such words he would find himself in hot   water. ’ ’   “I actually like Jay Z, but you know, the language last night.   Oh. Oh. I was thinking, maybe I’ll just try it? Should I use that   language for one event? Can you imagine if I said that?” Trump   rhetorically asked a crowd at a rally in Tampa, Florida. ’ ’   Jay Z  while rapping for a get out the vote effort Friday   night in Ohio. He was joined by Beyonce, Big Sean, and Chance the   Rapper. ’ ’   “He used every word in the book,” Trump said. “I won’t even use   the initials because I’ll get in trouble, they’ll get me in   trouble. He used every word in the book last night. ” ’ ’   The Republican presidential nominee boasted that he was able to   attract massive crowds without Clinton’s star power, before again   highlighting the language employed at the concert. ’ ’’ ’   “In Hershey, Pennsylvania, last night, we had an arena, we had   27, 000 people show up, many couldn’t get in,” he said. “Far more   than Jay Z had with their free tickets. Free tickets! Far more.   And Beyonce. And I like the both, but he used language last night   that was so bad. ” ’ ’   Trump added: “And then Hillary said, ‘I did not like Donald   Trump’s lewd language.’ My lewd language! I’ll tell you what:   I’ve never said what he said in my life! But that shows you the   phoniness of politicians and the phoniness of the whole system,   folks. ” ’ ’   Clinton has strongly criticized Trump for crude comments he has   made toward women in the past. In October, her campaign   specifically homed in on comments captured on a leaked . Her campaign   also cut a  featuring other past Trump   comments to paint him as a poor role model for children. ’ ’   Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s campaign manager, also seized on Jay   Z’s language to zing Clinton. ’ ’   “‘Because our children are listening,’ right Hillary?” she asked    referring to the Clinton ad,   which showed kids watching the comments made by Trump over the   years. ’ ’   Clinton and Trump are both holding multiple events this weekend   as they sprint toward the finish line. Election Day is on   November 8. ’