’  ’ ”   About five minutes before Search Inside Yourself was scheduled to   start, I was running through New York City’s Flatiron District,   using half my mouth to chew a blueberry muffin and the other half   to curse the fates for letting me oversleep by an hour. ” ’   It was a fitting start to a day of mindfulness training. ’ ’ is a   program that   teaches participants skills around  and . It was originally developed at Google, by the   company’’s 107th employee,   Tan (a. k. a. the ””). ’ ’   Today, Tan  where the program continues. But   he sits on the board of the  which offers public SIY   programs across the globe. ’ ’   SIYLI invited me to participate in (and comped my admission to)   the $1, 250 New York City program in November. I attended the   first day of the program, where about 100 people, some from as   far away as Ethiopia, learned mindfulness practices and the   benefits behind them. ’ ”   For me, the class was a   opportunity to stop running,   chewing, and cursing, and really notice what was happening  —   both   around and inside me. Below, I’ve rounded up the insights from   SIY that most resonated with me. ” ”   One of the two SIY teachers who led the program, Laurie Cameron,   debunked the myth that if you keep getting distracted while   sitting,    isn’t for you. ” ’   Instead, she recommended thinking of meditation as training your   mental muscles and each distraction that arises as an opportunity   to do a ”mental rep.” Here’’s how it works: You start out by   following your breath. A distraction arises. You notice the   distraction. You reorient your attention to the breath. One rep   down. ’ ”   While those distractions can be frustrating, it’s important to   treat yourself with kindness and to reorient your attention as   gently as possible. ” ’   Robert Chender, the other SIY teacher, said there are two ways to   handle emotions. One is the existential way: ”I am   angry.” The other is the physiological way: ”I   experience anger in my body.” ’ ’   That second framing might sound weird  —   but if you think about   emotions that way, at least in your own head, it’’s somewhat   freeing. Your emotions are no longer   entities that   guide your choices; they’’re transient states. Think of emotions,   Cameron added, as ”passing through me like a cloud.” ’ ”   It’s the difference between being inside an emotion or stepping   outside of it, Cameron said when we spoke by phone later that   week. You don’t let your emotions define you. ” ’  ’ ’   ”Emotions are actually feelings in the body,” Chender explained.   The key is recognizing when you’’re experiencing a particular   bodily sensation. ’ ’   One way to do that is a body scan. Starting at the top of your   head, check in with every part of your body and notice what it   feels like. That way, you can catch any simmering negative   feelings before you act on them. ’ ’   For example, maybe your cheeks are hot, or your fists are   clenched. You might be experiencing anger. ’ ”   Cameron told me that the more you practice tuning into your   bodily sensations, the better you’ll get at identifying them. At   first, it might take you an hour to realize that you were   experiencing anger. At some point, though, you’ll be able to   realize what’s going on while you’re experiencing that anger.   Then you can label the emotion as such, which can help decrease   its intensity. ” ”   Finally, you can tap into your thinking brain to figure out what   to do next, instead of acting out of extreme anger, or sadness,   or whatever it is you’re experiencing. ” ’   Cameron and Chender taught the SBNRR technique for dealing with   emotions in tense situations: Stop, Breathe, Notice, Reflect,   Respond. ’ ”   Here’s how it would play out if you were in a meeting and someone   announced that you did something wrong: ” ”Stop: Don’t say anything just yet. ” ’Breathe: Take a deep breath. ’ ”Notice: Observe the feelings you’re   experiencing, for example anger or defensiveness. Observe any   physical sensations, for example weakness or nausea. ” ”Reflect: Figure out what the underlying feeling   is: Maybe you’re doubting yourself, or maybe you feel vulnerable. ” ’Respond: Choose to act in a way that makes   logical sense. ’ ”   Again, it takes practice to get good at this technique.   Eventually, it won’t take several minutes to SBNRR; it’ll be your   automatic pattern as soon as something triggers you. You can also   practice SBNRR on your own by mentally replaying a stressful   situation and thinking about how you could have handled it   differently. ” ’   Chender led a practice called ”open awareness,” which trains you   to focus deeply on the present. You notice and welcome whatever   comes your way  —   sounds, smells, and feelings, for example. ’ ’   At one point during the practice, Robert instructed SIY   participants to treat all these stimuli with kindness and   openness ”because you are a very good and kind person.” That idea   of showing yourself compassion, of recognizing the person you’’re   trying to be, struck me as both important and undervalued. ’ ”   Cameron told me that meditation isn’t just about training your   attention  —   it’s also about training the way you speak to   yourself. ” ’   We all have an inner voice that can sometimes be critical,   Cameron said. ”With mindfulness, we learn to develop awareness of   that voice in the head and we can learn to talk to ourselves with   kindness instead of scolding or  .” ’