’  ’ ’   Sophy Warner wanted to vote for   U. S. presidential   candidate Jill Stein. But she worried that her ballot, cast in   the swing state of Ohio, might help Republican Donald Trump   capture the White House. ’ ’   Through the website ”Trump Traders,” the    biology   student at Cleveland State University got in touch with Marc   Baluda, 44, a Republican corporate lawyer in California who   opposes Trump’’s candidacy and planned to vote for Democratic   nominee Hillary Clinton. ’ ”   The two strange bedfellows made a deal worthy of congressional    : Warner would vote for Clinton in Ohio, where polls   show a tight race, while Baluda would cast a ballot for the Green   Party candidate Stein in California, where Clinton is assured of   winning the state’s electoral votes. ” ’   Tens of thousands of voters, the vast majority seeking to prevent   a Trump presidency, have signed up on ” ” exchanges   in advance of Tuesday’’s Election Day. There is no way to verify   the ballots are cast as agreed, though some people are taking   ”ballot selfies” in states where such photos are legal. ’ ”   The swaps take advantage of a unique feature of U. S. presidential   elections. The winner is decided not by the national popular   vote. Rather, the outcome depends on what are known as electoral   votes, which are awarded to the victor of each state’s   presidential election, with rare exception. ” ’   The overall electoral vote winner becomes president, and the   national contest thus often comes down to votes in a handful of   states. ’ ’   ”Swing states” such as Ohio are hotly contested because their   voters can swing either to Republicans or Democrats year after   year and so play a decisive role. By contrast, pollsters view   states such as California as reliably Democratic. ’ ’  ’ ’ had matched 40, 000 voters as of   Monday, according to   John Stubbs. Although that may be   a small fraction of the electorate, a few hundred votes could   make a difference in a state where the race is close. ’ ’   The practice appears to be legal. In 2007, the 9th U. S. Circuit   Court of Appeals in San Francisco ruled that swapping votes is a   protected form of free speech, even if some disagreed with the   tactic. ’ ’   Vote trading first gained attention in 2000, when some voters   sought to ensure Ralph Nader, the Green Party candidate, did not   siphon off enough support from Democrat Al Gore to hand the   election to Republican George W. Bush. ’ ’   The   ”Nader Traders” failed when Bush famously won the   election after capturing Florida by only 537 votes. Nader drew   more than 97, 000 votes there. ’ ’   Stein and Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson together are drawing   nearly 7 percent in opinion polls, far more than normal for those   parties and enough to raise the specter of another     outcome in 2016. ’ ’   The digital exchanges seek to solve a quadrennial conundrum for   voters ”trapped” in one of the 40 or so noncompetitive states:   how can I make my vote count? ’ ’   For supporters of   candidates like Stein and Johnson   who have almost no chance of capturing electoral votes, however,   all that matters is their raw national totals. ’ ’   That difference is what allows the type of vote trading that   occurs on Trump Traders and #NeverTrump, a mobile app launched   this fall by Silicon Valley entrepreneur Amit Kumar. ’ ’   ”Living in California, our votes aren’’t that important in   determining who wins,” he said in a phone interview. ’ ’   Kumar said the app has been downloaded 20, 000 times, with around   8, 000 active users. ’ ”   Trump Traders’ Stubbs, a Republican, said technology advances   since 2000, including social networking sites and mobile phones,   made   exponentially easier. ” ’   For Republican voters like Baluda, even saying aloud that he is   supporting Clinton is difficult. But he said he had no regrets   about trying to maximize the power of his vote by commoditizing   it. ’ ’   ”Votes do matter, and Floridians found that out 16 years ago,” he   said. ’