’  ’ ’   Investors have been keeping close tabs on the   in the  up the election. ’ ’   But another currency may be worth paying attention to as the   election results roll in: the Japanese yen, which is, generally   speaking, one of the     assets investors pour into   during times of uncertainty. ’ ’   As things stand right now,  Hillary Clinton as a known player whose   policies are expected to be largely a continuation of the Obama   administration. Trump and his economic positions, however, are   less predictable and do not always follow party orthodoxy. And   so, he is perceived as more of a ”political risk.” ’ ’   ”Since October,   and share prices have risen when polls   suggest a Clinton win is more likely and fallen when support for   Trump rebounds,” wrote Taisuke Tanaka, strategist at Deutsche   Bank, in a note. ’ ’   ”Initially, the reaction of   and share prices is likely to   follow this preelection pattern until there is some certainty   about the election outcome,” he argued. ”However, we think a   Clinton victory should not be necessarily viewed as      only for a trigger to unwind   shorts.” ’ ’   Most recently, the  in Asian trade on   Monday  ’ ’   In light of that, Tanaka presented different scenarios and what   it could mean for the yen: ’ ”   For what it’s worth, the yen  after the last major   political risk event in developed markets: The Brexit   referendum, when Britons voted to leave the EU back in June.   The currency  as 15. 2% against the greenback shortly   after several British news services called the vote. Relatedly,   the Nikkei dropped by about 8% in the same time frame. ” ’   Interestingly, the yen’’s not the only   asset singled   out by investors this time around. Gary Shilling, the president   of A. Gary Shilling & Co. and the founder of Merrill Lynch’’s   economics department in the 1980s,  that although a   Trump presidency might be negative for stocks, he would be ”very   positive” for the dollar and Treasurys. ’ ’   And Capital Economics’’ commodities team, headed by Julian Jessop,    arguing that ”if Donald Trump were   to win, we would expect the prices of most commodities to fall.   The exception would be gold,” which is the     ”   ” trade. ’ ’   But, overall, markets are  in the immediate aftermath of the   election. ’ ’   The yen was weaker by 0. 6% at 104. 5250 per dollar as of 1:51 p. m.   ET. ’ ’  ’