’  ’ ’   There is an overwhelming chance that the Affordable Care Act,   better known as Obamacare, is facing its last few months of   existence as we know it. ’ ’   For the past few years, congressional Republicans  to repeal   Obamacare. And now, with control of the executive branch, these   votes will probably become more than just a statement. ’ ’   In a press conference Wednesday, House Speaker Paul Ryan said the   ACA was an ”unpopular law” and that Congress has already proven   it could ”repeal and replace” it. ’ ’   Additionally, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said that   repealing the ACA was a priority for Republicans. ’ ’   ”It’’s pretty high on our agenda, as you know. I would be shocked   if we didn’’t move forward and keep our commitment to the American   people,” McConnell said at a press conference on Wednesday. ’ ’’ ’   Trump spent a significant part of the final weeks of the campaign    calling it a ”bad deal” and   highlighting recent premium increases for the ACA’’s     plans. ’ ’   While the law can’’t be fully repealed, according to Timothy Jost,   a professor at Washington and Lee University and advocate of the   law, Republicans could use measures to defund much of the   financial support for the law. The results of the election, he   said, has put it ”on life support.” ’ ’   Jost said congressional Republicans and Trump could remove   funding for tax subsidies that 84% of the people getting their   healthcare through the exchanges use to afford care. Trump and   the   Congress could also roll back Medicaid   expansion and stop outreach efforts to get people to sign up for   plans through the exchanges. ’ ”   Cynthia Cox, a health policy expert at the nonpartisan Kaiser   Family Foundation, said that because Republicans don’t control a     majority in Congress, they would only be able to   use budget reconciliation measures to change the ACA. ” ’   This means that only parts of the law related to funding could be   affected by the new government. ’ ’   All in all, more than 20 million people may lose or be priced out   of their health coverage after these moves, according to Jost. He   said that would have a huge effect. ’ ’   ”Some of them will die,” Jost said. ”That’’s what happens when you   lose health coverage. People who maintain their coverage will be   under serious financial stress. It will be bad for hospitals   because they have to accept more people without care.” ’ ’   Cox said that those people are ”at risk” of losing their   coverage, but it is unclear what it will look like. ’ ’   ”The details of Trump’’s plan aren’’t there yet that would help us   understand complex way these things will play out,” Cox said. ”We   aren’’t sure if there is a part of his plan to help people keep   their coverage or what they would look like.” ’ ”   For one thing, Cox said, the plan Trump has proposed doesn’t   match with congressional Republicans’ previous replacement   attempts. ” ’   Republicans, including Ryan, have  that would bear some similarities to Obamacare,   including  to ensure continued expansion of coverage and   methods of providing care for patients. ’ ’   Trump’’s  but he has mentioned ”doing away with   the lines” between states. This appears to mean that state   regulation of health insurance  —   all 50 states have their own   insurance commissioners and regulation agencies  —   would be done   away with in favor of unified regulations. The exact coverage   proposals are unclear, according to Cox. ’ ’   These moves, however, cannot affect some of the other measures,   such as the inability of insurers to deny people based on a   preexisting condition. ’ ’   ”Some of the coverage aspects of the law would stay in place,”   Cox said. ”Gender rating where women can’’t be charged more than   men, older people can only be charged three times more than young   people, younger people can stay on their parents’’ insurance until   they’’re 26  —   those can’’t be changed though reconciliation.” ’ ”   This doesn’t mean the Trump administration couldn’t influence   major pieces of the ACA, according to Jost. ” ’   ”Much of the act is administrative, so a new administration could   simply not give it support,” Jost said. ”They can not put   resources into outreach, discourage people from signing up for   insurance through the law instead of encourage. They can dive   insurers out of the market. They can cause a lot of trouble.” ’ ’   Even in the short term, the Trump election could be a negative   for the ACA. According to Cox, since Obamacare exchanges are   going through their   period right now, Americans   could be discouraged from getting health insurance through the   exchanges if they think they will soon be gone. ’