’  ’ ’   The idea of Donald Trump as president is starting to settle in.   What a Donald Trump presidency looks like in practice remains to   be seen. ’ ”   It’s not known how much of Trump’s stated plans he intends to   pursue in office, or even how much of them he would be able   to implement. ” ”   But the stances he’s taken and the way he’s taken them suggest   relations in North America may be about to change  —   and not for   the better. ” ’   Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto  the   relationship after the   election, congratulating the American electorate and the ties   between the two countries, though  of mentioning Trump by name. ’ ”   For Peña Nieto’s countrymen, however, there was little to praise. ” ’   ”Americans have disappointed me,” Jose Enrique Guillen, a      sociology student,  Bloomberg. ”I feel the hatred. I’m sad   and worried.” ’ ”   Throughout much of his campaign, Trump took positions   antagonistic toward Mexico, the US’s southern neighbor and its    trading partner. ” ’   Even before the election, the Mexican peso had risen and   fallen with developments in the presidential race. As a   Trump presidency became ever more likely, it plummeted, slipping   to its lowest levels  above 20 to the dollar,   before inching up slightly to settle at  on Wednesday afternoon. ’ ’  ’ ”   More than 80% of Mexico’s exports come to the US, and some 6   million US jobs depend on trade with Mexico,  to the US Chamber of Commerce. ” ’   Trump has  putting a 35% tax on automobiles and auto   parts shipped into the US by American companies that relocate to   Mexico.   trade is  about a   dollars annually,   which gives Mexico a large surplus. ’ ’   Analysts have  a Trump win could put billions worth of     trade at risk. ’ ’   The Republican candidate’’s victory was ”as close to a national   emergency as Mexico has faced in many decades,” Mexican analyst   Alejandro Hope  the AP. ’ ’   In the   to the election Mexican officials  at the economic consequences of a   Trump victory, and in the aftermath of his success, they tried to   put on a confident face. ’ ’   Ahead of the voting, Mexican Finance Secretary Jose Antonio Meade   said the government was  for a potential Trump win. ’ ’  ’ ’   Afterward, he urged calm.  ’ ’   ”Mexico has lived through challenges of volatility in the past   that we faced with unity, seizing on our economic strength and   taking correct and prudent policy decisions, and this won’’t be an   exception,” Meade . ’ ”   Agustin Carstens, Mexico’s   chief who  Trump to a Category Five hurricane   in September, said the government had a contingency plan, but    no new economic measures in   response to the election. ” ’   ”The official response has signaled calm and an intention to work   together” with the new US government, said Carin Zissis, the   online    at the Americas Society and Council of the   Americas. ’ ’   ”There has been an initial reaction of shock . .. and there   also is a sense of uncertainty over what’’s to come. Many are   fearful about the impact on the Mexican economy, given that the   two countries trade more than $1. 4 billion in goods each day,”   Zissis told Business Insider. ”But it’s not going to be an easy   task to dismantle ties that tight.” ’ ”   Fitch ratings agency  Trump’s win increased Mexico’s economic   uncertainty and could negatively affect the country’s   growth. ” ’   ”While policy direction from the Trump administration is not yet   clear, any changes that materially disrupt trade or financial   flows would be credit negative for Mexico,” Jaime Reusche, senior   sovereign analyst at Moody’’s, told Reuters. ’ ”   The closeness of the two countries and the fervor of Trump’s   rhetoric made his win especially dismaying for many in   Mexico.  ” ’   ”Donald Trump is not a person of institutions,” Isidro Morales, a   professor at the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher   Education,  the Associated Press. ”Surely it will be   a unilateral policy worse than (George W.) Bush and we don’’t know   what to expect.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I feel very sad. It’’s a nightmare, with a lot of uncertainty   about what’’s going to happen,” Erick Sauri, a      architect,  AFP. ”For now we’’re already making   less than we (were) making yesterday,” he added, in   reference to the peso’’s sharp decline. ’ ”   The market’s unease soothed some on Wednesday, and experts in   Mexico suggested that Trump may be more  as president than he was as a   candidate. But the positions he took and his subsequent election   indicate to other Mexicans that the country needs more   options.  ” ”   If Trump were to pursue policies detrimental to Mexico’s trading   relationship with the US, then policymakers south of the border   would work to expand commercial links and export arrangements. ” ’   Mexico has said it would be open to ”” NAFTA, but if the next US   government is against the trade deal, it would seek to be   ”twice as aggressive” in building trade ties with both Asia   and Latin America, Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo    Reuters. ’ ’   ”Mexico is waking up to realize that we cannot keep   being economically dependent on the USA. This is the lesson:   diversify,” Viridiana Rios, a global fellow at the Washington,     Wilson Center and a former adviser to the Mexican   finance ministry, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”And we will. It will take some time, and will be painful in the   short term, but will happen,” Rios added. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Our exports need to be diversified,” Cesar Castro,     president of   group Canieti   and logistics chief of US manufacturing firm Jabil Circuit in   Mexico,  Reuters. ”We should have done it a while   ago.” ’ ’   Mexicans are ”watching the peso, which has taken a dramatic hit,   and wondering if Trump will make good on his promise to seize   migrant remittances for building his infamous wall,” Zissis   told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”There are also concerns about how Mexicans living in the   United States will be treated,” Zissis added. ’ ’   If Trump follows through with his plans to deport more than 11   million undocumented migrants living in the US, about half of   whom are Mexican,  faced by   Mexican officials  —   who have been strained over the past   several years by efforts (at the behest of US authorities) to    transiting the country toward the US.  ’ ’  ’ ”   And among those already in Mexico, the worst fallout from Trump’s   plans would likely fall on the poorest. ” ’   ”In the end, the most affected are always those of us who have   the least,” Morales  the AP, adding that the weaker peso   would make it harder to buy things. ”We’’re the ones that have to   take the hits.” ’ ’   ”The vulnerable will be hit the hardest,” Rios told Business   Insider. ’ ’   ”This is immigrants, and the poor and uneducated Mexicans that   make a living out of remittances” that Trump has suggested    to fund the border wall he   has promised to build, Rios said. (Mexico has  it would use all legal means to stop   that plan.) ’ ’   ”Trump will be bad for the elites and the middle class,” Rios   said, ”but disastrous for the poor who will see (if it is the   case) its income taxed  —   to construct a useless wall.” ’ ’   A survey conducted prior to the election found that   —   the most since   2000  —   had a favorable view of the US. ’ ’   ”But today,” Zissis said, ”many Mexicans are expressing   disappointment with the U. S. over the outcome.” ’