’  ’ ”   It’s been repeated endlessly that Tuesday’s election featured two   of the most disliked presidential candidates in US history. ” ’   But one metric may put into perspective exactly how unpopular   Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton were with voters. ’ ’   In 14 states,   candidates received more votes than   presidential candidates  —   even when you factor in     candidates. ’ ’   In some cases, like in North Carolina and Missouri,   voters turned off by Trump and Clinton may have still been   compelled to chime in on hotly contested races for senator and   governor. ’ ’   In North Carolina, about 30, 000 more people cast ballots for   incumbent Gov. Pat McCrory and Roy Cooper than for any of the   presidential nominees, who earned 4. 6 million combined votes,   according to data from . (The extra turnout made a difference  —   the race   .) ’ ’’ ”   But the trend held up even in states where   races   weren’t particularly close. In Oregon, where Sen. Ron Wyden   and Gov. Kate Brown easily won   their races   drew about 75, 000 more votes than the presidential contest. ” ”   Meanwhile, in Alaska, the race for the state’s lone House   seat drew 2, 000 more voters than the presidential race this year.   Don Young has easily held his seat for the past four decades. ” ”   The discrepancy was even more exaggerated in Vermont, where about   314, 000 voters in Vermont cast their ballots in the governor   race, and 313, 000 for the Senate, compared to just 291, 000 who   voted for president. That’s a difference of almost 8%. ” ’   One state that is absent from the list is Nevada, where voters   are allowed to choose ”None of these candidates.” The option   received about 29, 000 votes out of 1. 1 million total votes. If   those voters had skipped the presidential race altogether, Nevada   would be the 15th state on this list. ’ ”   It’s difficult to pinpoint exactly why some voters   participated only in   races, but the anomaly   suggests a stunning rejection of politics as usual. ” ’   Alaska ’ ’   Indiana ’ ’   Kansas ’ ’   Missouri ’ ’   Montana ’ ’   New Hampshire ’ ’   North Carolina ’ ’   North Dakota ’ ’   Oregon ’ ’   Vermont ’ ’   Washington ’ ’   Wisconsin ’ ’   West Virginia ’ ’   Wyoming ’ ’   Note: Only about 66% of precincts in Washington have reported   results as of this publication. Between 98% and 100% of precincts   in the other states have reported. ’