’  ’ ’   The Hillary Clinton campaign pinned blame on FBI Director James   Comey for its . ’ ’   Navin Nayak, the director of opinion research on the campaign,   sent an  Thursday evening outlining what the   campaign believed were the reasons for its loss. The email, which   was first reported by Politico, was confirmed to Business Insider   by a Clinton campaign staffer. ’ ”   Nayak signaled in the email that the campaign believes two    helped swing the electorate toward Trump  —   an   initial Comey letter to Congress that reactivated an   investigation into Clinton’s private email server, and a   subsequent letter last Sunday that again cleared her of   wrongdoing. ” ’   ”We believe that we lost this election in the last week. Comey’’s   letter in the last 11 days of the election both helped depress   our turnout and also drove away some of our critical support   among   white voters  —   particularly in the   suburbs,” Nayak wrote. ”We also think Comey’’s 2nd letter, which   was intended to absolve Sec. Clinton, actually helped to bolster   Trump’’s turnout.” ’ ”   The campaign said Comey’s first letter likely helped depress   turnout among Clinton’s supporters. That served as a shift in   thinking, or at least posture, from last week, when the   campaign’s communications director argued that the reactivated   FBI investigation had actually . ” ’’ ’   But Nayak wrote that after seeing    turnout lagged on Election Day in   metropolitan areas   like Philadelphia, Detroit, Milwaukee, and  . ’ ’   Comey’’s second letter ”energized Trump supporters,” Nayak wrote. ’ ’   ”There is no question that a week from Election Day, Sec. Clinton   was poised for a historic win,” Nayak wrote. ”In the end, late   breaking developments in the race proved one hurdle too many for   us to overcome.” ’ ’   Additionally, Nayak pointed to anger at global institutions, a   desire for change after a   Democratic president, the   challenges of reassembling President Barack Obama’’s voting   coalition, and the ”unprecedented task” of electing the nation’’s   first female president as hurdles to the campaign’’s success. ’ ’   Nayak also suggested some blame lay at the feet of Green Party   nominee Jill Stein, whose 130, 000 votes in three key swing states   were ”an important reminder of the influence of 3rd party votes.” ’