Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: •   Donald J. Trump questioned whether the U. S. must remain bound to its longstanding One China policy “unless we make a deal with China having to do with other things, including trade. ” He also disparaged the American spy agencies that he will count on as commander in chief, dismissing a C. I. A. assessment that Russian hacking had influenced the presidential campaign as “ridiculous. ” Mr. Trump is expected to name as secretary of state Rex W. Tillerson. The chief executive of Exxon Mobil, he has made extensive deals around the globe and has close ties to Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin. Above, Mr. Trump at the   football game over the weekend. _____ • Prime Minister Hwang   is now South Korea’s acting president, after Park  ’s powers were suspended last week when the National Assembly vote to impeach her. If the Constitutional Court decides to remove her, here are some contenders to fill the presidency, including Ban   the outgoing United Nations secretary general. Our reporter looks at how the scandal and the election of Mr. Trump might be affecting North Korea. _____ • Thousands of readers in the Philippines responded to the photographer Daniel Berehulak’s gruesome documentation of scores of homicides committed as part of President Rodrigo Duterte’s antidrug campaign. Some expressed horror, but most applauded Mr. Duterte’s approach. “Slaughter might be harsh but I guess for drug peddlers, they deserve it,” one said. _____ • Syrians are streaming out of eastern Aleppo as government forces continue to hammer   neighborhoods with airstrikes, but some are staying. “We are dead either way,” one man told a nurse. The Islamic State appeared to take advantage of the government’s focus on Aleppo, retaking the ancient city of Palmyra. _____ • Turks massed in mourning after twin suicide bombings in Istanbul killed 38 people and wounded scores. A Kurdish militant group claimed responsibility for the attack, the latest in a series of that have crushed the city’s spirit and economy. “This is the new norm,” one Turk said. _____ • Our   columnist Roger Cohen managed to get into one of Australia’s island detention centers for refugees. The world, he writes, “knows no more sustained, sinister or surreal exercise in cruelty than the South Pacific   Australia has established for its trickle of the migrant flood. ” • An informal lending network administered through smartphone apps and online platforms is allowing   investors in China to make American   deals  —   sometimes inflating prices. • An investigation by The New York Times into the financial maneuvering at Hostess as the Twinkie was reintroduced found a blueprint for how private equity executives have amassed some of the greatest fortunes of the modern era. • Iran’s national airline and Boeing signed a $16. 6 billion deal for 80 airplanes, but its future under a Trump administration is uncertain. • A lawyer for Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, is expected to try to delay her criminal trial today on charges of fiscal negligence in a 2007 arbitration case, when she was France’s finance minister. • The U. S. Federal Reserve Bank has all but announced it will raise its benchmark interest rate on Wednesday for the first time since December 2015. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Jakarta is preparing for the possibility of more terrorist threats after the Indonesian police foiled a major bomb plot over the weekend. [Jakarta Post] • The race for Hong Kong’s next chief executive has become more complicated. Leung   the unpopular   incumbent, said he would not seek a second term. [The New York Times] • And John Tsang, Hong Kong’s financial secretary, is hinting at a run. [South China Morning Post] • A    pioneer is one of the most successful wine growers in China. [Hong Kong Free Press] • A church  in southern Nigeria whose construction had been rushed collapsed onto worshipers at an ordination, killing at least 160 people. [Associated Press] • The   movement in the United States is trying to improve its image, but its core message of racial separation and white supremacy is still the same. [The New York Times] • David Hallberg, the first American dancer to join the Bolshoi Ballet, returns to the stage two and a half years after an ankle injury. He performs in Sydney with the Australian Ballet on Tuesday, Friday and Dec. 19 and 21. • China has plans to recreate a model American farm, and possibly an entire Midwestern community, in Hebei Province, inspired by President Xi Jinping’s visit to Iowa in 2012. • And in our Daily 360 video, the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei takes us on a stroll through Tompkins Square Park in New York, his old stamping grounds from 1983 to 1993. Four exhibitions of his work are currently in the city. Last week, the   Pizzagate case escalated when a man fired a rifle inside a Washington restaurant falsely accused in fake news stories of ties to a child abuse ring. The history of the “ ” suffix begins with the 1970s Watergate scandal that led to President Richard M. Nixon’s resignation. Since then, the suffix has been synonymous with political wrongdoing. The Times columnist William Safire, a former Nixon speechwriter, popularized the practice. He introduced readers to Nannygate, Scalpgate, and Troopergate during the Clinton administration. Mr. Safire later admitted that he might have been trying to minimize Nixon’s crimes. But “ ” scandals have not been limited to the United States. Britain has had its share, and in Germany, there was the 1987 Waterkantgate, a scandal around a West German politician that resulted in his mysterious death. India had snoopgate, and Malaysia had cowgate. Argentina and Venezuela’s relations soured over Valijagate  —   which, if you speak Spanish, you’d have guessed turned on the contents of a suitcase. The unoriginal suffix even gets recycled now. Pizzagate was previously used to describe a soccer player’s use of the food as a weapon, and when New York’s mayor committed a  : using silverware to eat a slice. Evan Gershkovich contributed reporting.  _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.