’  ’ ’     Once Donald Trump takes office, he will be the most widely     loathed president in modern American history. Yet he will also     have far more room to maneuver than any of his recent     predecessors. That’s precisely what’s freaking so many people     out. There is no way to predict what Trump will do or say in     the months to come, and that’s left many Americans anxious and     afraid.   ’ ’     Normally, you’d expect a successful presidential candidate to     be at least somewhat attuned to the interests of his political     allies, including his donors. Mitt Romney likely would have run     a very different campaign in 2012 had he not depended on the     support of wealthy donors. Trump faced no such constraint. His     early success was driven largely by the saturation media     coverage he generated with his bombastic rhetoric.   ’ ’     This difference shows in Trump’s fundraising totals. Through       his campaign committee spent  as much as     Hillary Clinton’s. And while Romney attracted hundreds of     millions of dollars in support from Super PACs, Trump’s Super     PAC allies raised . Several     large donors who had enthusiastically backed Republicans in     previous elections and who supported Trump’s rivals in the race     for the GOP presidential nomination, .     This was particularly true of donors who had contributed to Jeb     Bush, John Kasich, and Marco Rubio, three candidates perceived,     fairly or otherwise, as especially deferential to the interests     of the financial services sector.   ’ ’     If Trump won’t be tied down by large donors, might he instead     by hemmed in by the Republican Party? Probably not.   ’ ’     Unlike the centralized, disciplined political parties found in     many other democracies, America’s major parties are loose     coalitions. Campaign finance regulation has hollowed out     central party organizations, and power has shifted to     individual candidates, their fundraising networks, and a     congeries of Super PACs and pressure groups. The party that     controls the presidency has the distinct advantage of having a     very visible figure who is unambiguously at the top of the     partisan totem pole. Without such a focal point, these loose     coalitions have a way of descending into anarchy. That’s     basically what’s happened to the GOP in the Obama years.   ’ ’     But now the GOP has a focal point, and it’s not Reince Priebus,     the chairman of the Republican National Committee, or Paul     Ryan, the speaker of the House (for now, at least). It is     Donald Trump. Instead of Republicans reining in Trump, it is     Trump who will play the central role in defining what it means     to be a Republican.   ’ ’  ’ ’     Until recently, ambitious young Republicans knew exactly what     they had to do to make their way in the GOP: Invoke the memory     of Ronald Reagan at every turn, even if you were but a small     child when Reagan was in the White House, and make sure     everyone in the party knew you were a conservative’s     conservative devoted to conservative conservatism. Witness the     careers of Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, two   who hold     different perspectives on policy issues and who have entirely     different styles. And yet both men endeavored to convince their     fellow Republicans, and particularly Republican donors, that     they were Reagan’s Latino heirs. Trump’s victory has almost     certainly brought the era of Reagan worship to an end.   ’ ’     If donors won’t guide the   and the party     apparatus won’t constrain him, then who will steer the      ? Heavy responsibility will fall on the     shoulders of Ivanka Trump and her husband Jared Kushner,     Trump’s closest confidantes, and the as yet unknown people who     will staff senior roles in his administration.   ’ ’     Trump has been consistent on one point over the course of his     decadeslong flirtation with national politics: his skepticism     about free trade and his commitment to economic nationalism. On     almost everything else, from the tax code to universal health     insurance to the size of the military to unauthorized     immigration —  his signature issue this campaign cycle —  he’s taken     any number of positions. On most of these questions, with the     notable exception of immigration, Trump is a blank slate.     Indeed, one of his recurring themes has been that, unlike the     Republicans he trounced in the primaries, he is no ideologue.     He’s promised to do “whatever works” to make America great     again.   ’ ’     Who will serve in a Trump administration? We can expect that     Trump’s most enthusiastic surrogates —  former House Speaker Newt     Gingrich, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani —  will be     given . Trump’s     most devoted cheerleaders have been   (like Gingrich     and Giuliani) and   who were unafraid of the     reputational consequences of backing Trump either because they     were so devoted to his cause or, in some cases, because they     felt they had everything to gain and nothing to lose.   ’ ’     If loyalty is Trump’s chief criterion for hiring, he’ll run     into a serious problem. There are countless roles that will     need be filled at the Trump White House and in executive branch     agencies, most of which offer sleepless nights and hardly any     glory. Because his campaign was so small and because it     alienated so many elite Republicans, it will be difficult for     President Trump to limit himself to loyalists. He will have to     reach out to at least some of the men and women who opposed     him.   ’ ’     One of the biggest challenges facing Republicans in the       era is that as the party has grown more stridently       it has hemorrhaged       professionals. Though the GOP has compensated for this loss in     electoral terms, it’s contributed to an asymmetry in the realm     of policy expertise. Whereas Hillary Clinton’s presidential     campaign had vast numbers of credentialed policy experts at its     beck and call, the Trump campaign had a small,       coterie of contrarians, who zagged when other Republicans of     their social class zigged. That’s not a terrible thing when     you’re waging war on the conventional wisdom. But it makes life     far more difficult when you need warm bodies to fill staff     positions. Most people are conformists, not renegades. And in     intellectual circles, including     in conservative intellectual circles,       support for Trump has been a minority position.   ’ ’     In the weeks and months to come, many policy professionals will     face a dilemma. Are they willing to put aside their doubts     about Trump to serve in his administration? Doing so will mean     taking on a   risk. Trump was the most     polarizing presidential candidate in recent memory. It is easy     to imagine that he will be just as polarizing a president. He     is untested as a public servant, and it’s not at all clear that     he has the discipline or the experience necessary to serve as     the nation’s chief executive.   ’ ’     That is precisely why it is so important that those asked to     serve in the Trump administration give very serious     consideration to doing so, regardless of their political     proclivities. This is particularly true of those with national     security expertise, but it is not limited to them. America is     entering a very uncertain moment, and our new president will     need calm voices and steady hands around him.   ’