’  ’ ”   Less than a week after   Donald Trump’s upset   victory, nonprofits and charities dedicated to opposing policies   he campaigned on are still being flooded with donations  —   for   some at an unprecedented level. ” ’   On Monday, the  announced a whopping $7. 2 million in   donations over the last five days. By comparison, there were 354   donations totaling $27, 806 over the same   period in 2012. ’ ’   The nonprofit  after Trump’’s election win,   promising its ”full firepower” should his administration pursue   unconstitutional policies. The ACLU also emblazoned the homepage   of its website with the message ”See you in court” beside an   image of Trump. ’ ’ also reported a record surge of 80, 000   donations since Election Day, according to . Many of the donations were sent in the name of   Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton  —   but also in the name of Vice      the fiercely   rights Indiana   governor who fought to defund Planned Parenthood and signed a   bill requiring miscarried or stillborn fetuses be buried or   cremated. ’ ’   The money is coming at a critical time for organizations such as    a nonprofit that offers suicide prevention   services such as a   hotline for young LGBTQ people. ’ ’’ ”   The Trevor Project was running $200, 000 behind in donations   before Trump’s election, Deputy Executive Director Steve   Mendelsohn told Business Insider. But over the last week, the   project has received more than $165, 000 from donors in 20   countries, and signed up nearly 1, 000 new supporters to donate on   a monthly basis. ” ’   ”We were having trouble raising money before the election.   …     We   believe that we were behind because people were focused on giving   money to the candidates,” Mendelsohn said. ”Now we’’re getting   back to where we should be.” ’ ’   The Trevor Project was one of several organizations touted by    on his Sunday episode of ”Last Week   Tonight” in a segment on Trump’’s election. Mendelsohn said   Oliver’’s   helped boost the organization’’s donations and   web traffic even further. ’ ’   A website called  also sprang up   on Monday, presenting visitors with inflammatory statements Trump   has made about minorities or marginalized groups, accompanied by   suggestions for organizations to donate to. ’ ’: The legal   advocacy organization has pledged to continue defending Roe v.   Wade should Trump seek to overturn it by appointing     rights Supreme Court justices. The center said on Twitter on   Monday it had  who committed to monthly donations. ’ ’: The   investigative journalism nonprofit reported a surge in donations   after being mentioned in Oliver’’s segment, receiving ”” up to 12 hours after the show aired,   ProPublica President Richard Tofel told Poynter. ’ ’: The   Muslim civil rights group has received a ””   volunteer applications, Ibrahim   Hooper, CAIR’’s communications director, told The Atlantic. ’ ’: The   organization dedicated to providing legal protections for   refugees raised more than $56, 000 from more than 1, 200 donors on   Indiegogo over the past five days. ’