’  ’ ’   Under the landmark Iran nuclear deal, the international community   ”calls upon” Iran to halt work on missiles that can be used to   deliver nuclear weapons for up to eight years. ’ ”   But there’s a glaring problem with this provision  —   Iran can   simply say it’s working on a conventional missile, not one   intended to carry a nuclear payload. ” ”   And that’s exactly what Iran has done since the early days of the   Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Iran  that   it can easily convert to carry nuclear payloads.  ” ’   While observers have argued that these tests  the   language of the agreement fails to explicitly prohibit these   activities, and nothing indicates that Iran will stop testing   missiles. ’ ’   “Iran’s defense capabilities cannot be compromised and are under   no circumstance negotiable,” foreign ministry spokesman Bahram   Ghasemi told Iranian TV, . “Missile tests are   conducted within the framework of Iran’s defense policies. ” ’ ’   But   Donald Trump has vowed repeatedly to   renegotiate the Iran deal, and according to  a Middle East expert who is a vice president of   research at the  missile   testing could be on the table. ’ ’   ”Trump has repeatedly slammed the deal as being a bad deal  —   the   assumption is that he’s going to do something,” Schanzer told   Business Insider, though he admits that given Trump’’s ambiguity   on the subject it’’s ”extremely difficult” to anticipate how   negotiations would play out.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We haven’t heard specifics,” said Schanzer, but there are limits   to what a President Trump could do. ”We can’t rip it up on day   one . .. the idea that you can do a 180 is unrealistic.” ’ ”   However, according to Schanzer, even before taking office,   Trump’s election has already shaken up the status quo between the   US and Iran. ” ’   ”Without question, Trump’’s victory will spook a lot of financial   institutions and companies that were considering investments   in Iran,” said Schanzer. Even companies that have already   invested in Iran will ”likely cool their heels, rethinking their   investment strategies and wondering how investments are going to   change because of the lack of continuity.” ’ ’   Trump’’s election has caused a ”new inflection point with   regard to this deal,” said Schanzer. And while most experts agree   the deal can’’t be nullified on day one, it is ”something that can   be changed by degrees over time,” and that a Trump administration   could undertake a ”carefully planned unwinding of the deal.” ’ ’   However, Schanzer warns that should the US undo the Iran   deal, Iran wouldn’’t be happy about it, and the US should then   have a ”carefully planned response to Iranian aggression.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Ultimately, how a Trump administration will proceed with Iran is   a mystery, but the prospects for negotiation have undoubtedly   changed, and perhaps improved. ’ ”   Schanzer points out that Trump’s pivots with governments around   the world could turn the tables with Iran. For instance, Russia   has influence over Iran, and Trump has repeatedly . ” ’   ”If this incoming administration does reset ties with Russia, and   Russia has understanding with Iran, how does that play out?”   asked Schanzer. ’ ’   With a redefined standing in the world, ”arms embargoes,   ballistic missiles, these things could be renegotiated” between   the US and Iran, said Schanzer.  ’