’  ’ ”   Incoming Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer is about to be the   most powerful Democrat in Washington  —   tasked with leading   Democrats on issues of agreement with   Donald   Trump, while also opposing him on issues they don’t see eye to   eye on. ” ”   It just so happens that the Democrat who will likely have to work   closest with Trump is also the senator who’s received more in   campaign donations from the Manhattan billionaire than any other   member of the Senate. ” ”   From 1996, when Schumer was running for a House seat,   to 2010, Trump donated roughly $9, 000 directly to the New   York Democrat’s campaign, according to Federal Election   Commission filings. ” ”   Three of Trump’s children  —   Eric, Donald Jr. and Ivanka  —     donated a combined $6, 800 to Schumer. Jared Kushner, Ivanka’s   husband and a top adviser to the   donated $4, 000   to Schumer. ” ’   ”I mean, I’’ve contributed to Schumer, I contribute  —   I’’ve known   Schumer for many, many years,” . ”And I have a good   relationship with him. The fact is, that I think it is time maybe   that we all do get along.” ’ ’’ ’   At last month’’s Al Smith dinner in New York, Trump joked that   Schumer ”used to love me when I was a Democrat.” ’ ’   Schumer, who was elected Senate minority leader on Wednesday,   spoke with Trump ”a couple of times” since the     magnate pulled off his unforeseen victory last week.    that Democrats   plan to announce populist economic and ethics plans in the coming   weeks that are in line with some of Trump’’s campaign rhetoric,   and areas of agreement will seemingly include infrastructure   spending, child tax credits, and stricter enforcement of trade   agreements. ’ ’   ”When we can agree on issues, then we’’re going to work with   them,” . ”But I’’ve also said to the     on issues where we disagree, you can expect a   strong and tough fight.” ’ ”   Other House and Senate Democrats who have received donations   from Trump and his family and will serve after Trump’s   inauguration include Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Sen.   Bill Nelson of Florida, Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey, Sen. Dick   Durbin of Illinois, Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts, Rep. Charlie   Crist of Florida, and Rep. Carolyn Maloney of New York. ”