’  ’ ’     Donald Trump is considering Mitt Romney for the   position of secretary of state, according to sources who spoke to   . ’ ’   CNN  that Romney has a meeting with Trump this   weekend to talk about ”governing moving forward” and a possible   Cabinet position. ’ ’   Trump’’s campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, confirmed that the   transition team is ”working on” setting up a meeting with Romney. ’ ”   Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama said Thursday that he thinks it’s   good Trump is meeting with Romney. ” ’   ”There are a lot of talented people that he needs good   relationships with,” he told reporters. ”And I think Mr Romney   would be quite capable of doing a number of things. But he will   be one of those, I am sure, that’’s reviewed. Donald Trump will   make that decision.” ’ ’’ ’   Romney is  whom Trump is considering as secretary   of state, along with former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani,   former US Ambassador to the UN John Bolton, and South Carolina   Gov. Nikki Haley. ’ ’   Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, ran for president in   2012 but lost to President Barack Obama. Ever since, Romney and   Trump have sparred publicly. ’ ”   Romney was one of Trump’s most vehement critics during the   Republican primary, speaking out against him frequently and   refusing to endorse him despite Trump endorsing Romney in 2012.   Romney  in the general election. ” ’   After the election, Romney said on Twitter . ’ ’   ”Best wishes for our duly elected president: May his victory   speech be his guide and preserving the Republic his aim,” he   wrote. ’ ’   On Sunday, Trump said Romney called to congratulate him on his   victory. Trump said the gesture was ”” ’ ”   During the primary, however, Romney and Trump didn’t have many   nice things to say about each other. ” ’   Last year, Romney  and he   continued his criticism of the Republican nominee through the   primaries and general election. ’ ’   In March, Romney  calling Trump a ”phony,” ”fraud,” ”con   man,” and ”fake.” He also  that it’’s ”disqualifying for a     presidential nominee to refuse to release tax returns to the   voters.” Trump has yet to release his tax returns, saying he   would do so after a ”routine audit” is complete. ’ ’   Trump also  calling him a ”spoiled brat” and ”nasty guy.” ’ ”   Romney’s spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request   for comment. ”