’  ’ ’   In the fall of 2014, portfolio manager Dylan Grice did not know   Donald Trump would run for president of the United States. ’ ’   But it seems he did know that Trump would win. ’ ’   It was a different time. Two years ago the world seemed to   finally be emerging from the slow economic growth it had   experienced since the end of the financial crisis. The stock   market was riding high, deals were getting done at record rates,   and companies had no problem selling their bonds no matter what   their grade. It seemed as if we, the world, would soon get rich   again. ’ ’   But in a note called ”Vampires, credit and cycles of trust,”   Grice rejected that notion. ’ ’   ”One trend we’’re particularly concerned by is the increasing   prominence and relevance of ’’tribal’’   long invisible   to the rest of the world,” he wrote. ’ ’   Something dark and divisive was taking over the world. While the   market carried on as if everything were fine, confrontations of   all kinds were on the rise. The cooperation between nations,   between governments and their people, and between people and   corporations, was falling away. Grice could see it, and he knew   that eventually it would consume a market in deep denial. ’ ’   ”What we do think we know is that financial markets are playing   with a very cooperative   while the key players and   factions in the outside world are not,” he said. ”    are on the ascendency and the investment climate will soon   reflect this.” ’ ”   Why is this? It’s simple. Markets do not function without trust   and cooperation. But as Grice laid out in this paper, human   history moves in cycles of trust  —   in peaks and troughs of   cooperation. ” ’   We the world in 2016 are descending into the trough of a trust   cycle that peaked with the end of the Cold War and the   cooperation that followed until September 11, 2001. In this   downward spiral there can be only pain and conflict until we   learn to trust one another again. ’ ’   And that takes a great deal of time and, during that time,   suffering. ’ ’  ’ ”   I need not expound on the tribal nature of Trump’s presidential   campaign. It was about keeping people out of America, not   bringing people in. It was about returning to a past the country   lost, not opening our minds to the future we should, and   inevitably must, face. ” ”   In no other part of Trump’s policies is this more evident than in   his toxic talk regarding global trade. It is as vicious as it is   unfair. ” ”   Never mind that global trade has been on the decline for the past   five years, and never mind that Americans have lost thousands of   jobs to automation rather than globalization. Trump’s rhetoric   about China, about Mexico, about NAFTA, about the     Partnership, is not about facts. It’s about feelings. ” ”   It’s certainly not about cooperation or peace. It is about an   aggressive    in which the US has already been offended. ” ”   In Trump’s mind we, the citizens of the richest, most powerful   country, are victims. And we victims, he believes, are entitled   to take back what is ours. This combination of victimization and   entitlement is one of the most dangerous combinations in human   nature. ” ’  ’ ’   So again, we can turn to Grice’’s paper. ”Credit,” as Grice points   out, comes from the Latin word for trust. Like credit, trust   takes a long time to build but just moments to destroy. It is a   cycle  —   when trust reigns there are always those who see a way to   take advantage. Slowly, then, as others observe the success   noncooperators are enjoying, trust breaks down into utter chaos. ’ ’   Over the past century we have completed roughly two cycles in   which credit (and trust) has boomed and then gone bust, resulting   in massive   defaults. ’ ’   Those two periods were the 1920s into the Great Depression and   the 1970s into the 1980s, when many emerging markets defaulted   after commodity prices collapsed. ’ ’   As for the Great Depression, it was with an uncooperative     that the US  —   its back angrily turned against the world   after World War I and struggling with economic inequity  —   enacted   the   Tariff Act in 1930, . ’ ’   It was supposed to help farmers who were struggling in a   modernizing world. What it did was tip the world into the Great   Depression. ’ ’   ”As a result, US trade halved within years, and global trade   weakened even more, even if it continued at low levels within   regional trading blocs such as the Commonwealth and the remnants   of the Gold Bloc,” Deutsche Bank strategists wrote in a recent   note to clients. ’ ’   ”The rise in protectionism served as an important catalyst to the   global recession.” ’ ’   That recession was the crystallization of our distrust, and that   trust was previously rebuilt only after the world was remade   through the violence of World War II. ’ ”   It is fair to say that the world staved off chaos with the bust   of the latest financial crisis through careful cooperation. But   cycles find ways of asserting themselves. With Trump’s election,   with Americans’ demonstrated failure to trust one another and the   world, we have joined the darkness Grice was talking about. ” ’   ”Moreover, Trump’’s election victory comes at a time when support   for free trade policies and multilateralism is flagging   elsewhere,” analysts at Oxford Economics wrote in a recent note.   ”Protectionist parties are poised to do well next year in   elections in European countries such as France and the   Netherlands. And the UK referendum result means that one of the   EU’’s strongest advocates for free trade no longer has any   influence over EU trade policy. ’ ’   ”The upshot is that there is now a significant risk that the   world enters a period of rising trade barriers and      trade wars. Along with an aging population and fading benefits   from technological change, this will help to keep global growth   well below its   pace for a long time yet.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Slow growth, if Grice is correct, is the rosiest scenario here.   In his paper he discussed the close relationship between debt,   inflation, and ultimately default. Sovereign and corporate debt   have climbed in a time of low interest rates, but those interest   rates are rising. ’ ’   ”This long upswing in debt ratios suggests inflation risk to be a   real inflation risk to be a real threat,” he wrote. ”This would   indeed be more consistent with the internal dynamics of trust and   cooperation.” ’ ”   And inflation is coming. Trump’s antiglobalization policies will   bring it on, as Deutche Bank analysts pointed out in a recent   note: ” ’   These are all ideas that Trump has discussed in one way or   another as beneficial to the US, but they are not. They are   detrimental to the entire world. ’ ’   And, it is with great regret that I inform you that it is a world   we all live in. ’