’  ’ ”   Earlier this week, Google  when one of its top results for “final   election count” was fake news. The top result in Google Search’s   “In the news” section was a Wordpress blog named “70 News,” which   claimed Trump won the popular vote by a margin of almost 700, 000.   He didn’t. ” ’   Here is what the Google results looked like at one point: ’ ’  ’ ”   To the average person, the above page might look as if Google   News, the company’s ” ”   But it hadn’t.  ” ’   How is that possible?  ’ ’This is particularly   confusing for users on the desktop version of Google’’s site,   where the ”In the news” section lives. ’ ’   Not only does the “In the news” section literally have the word   ”news” in its name, but the link at the bottom of the module,   which says “More news for  …   ” takes you to the separate Google   News page, which is comprised only of articles that Google’’s   editorial system has approved.   ’ ’  ’ ’   Given these two factors, it’’s not a stretch that you might assume   the results in that little box are from Google News. Often they   are. But they aren’’t always, as evidenced by ”70 News.” ’ ”   The newsy boxes appear to be a loophole in Google’s system that   provides another way for false information to seep into the   public consciousness under the guise of trusted facts.  ” ”   While the viral nature of Facebook’s social media platform has   been blamed for much of the recent spread of false news, Google’s   efforts to position itself as the world’s fist stop on the web   has created another breeding ground for fake news that is   still not completely understood.  ” ’   So why isn’t the “In the news” section just the top three Google   News results? ’ ’   The short answer is because Google sees Google Search and Google   News as separate products. ’ ’   The longer answer might have to do with advertising dollars.   Google News does not include any advertising, which helps Google   avoid recriminations from news publishers, some of whom are   already angry about losing traffic to Google, that Google is   profiting from their work.  ’ ”   Google’s main search page, on the other hand, does have   advertising.  ” ’   By featuring a box of news stories on its main search   page, Google can generate ad revenue alongside popular news   articles that are not technically ”Google News,” while providing   a link to its   Google News section. (Google declined   to comment on this aspect). ’ ’   Whatever the reason for the separation, the branding and   placement of the “In the news” section seems likely to   mislead users into thinking it’s a Google News product.  ’ ’  ’ ’   The goal of Google News is to showcase the work of bona fide news   sites, with authoritative voices. Publications have to apply to   be part of Google News, and can be turned down. ’ ’ Google has let over 75, 000 publications onto   this platform, and there is a form anyone can use to report any   bad behavior, which can get publishers kicked off. ’ ’   Google’s search results, in contrast, are not editorially vetted,   or assessed for “truth. ” Google’s algorithms still do a good job   at sniffing out fake sites because Google is set up to catch   “spam. ” But Google’s algorithms will likely never be 100% perfect   at telling what information on a website is inaccurate. ’ ’   Google does, however, seem to want to wipe fake news from its   platform. ’ ’   “From our perspective, there should just be no situation where   fake news gets distributed, so we are all for doing better here,”   Google CEO Sundar Pichai said recently. After the issue of fake   news entered the spotlight after the election, Google announced   it would ban   sites from its ad network, choking off   their revenue. ’ ”   But even if Google’s goal is to kick   sites out of its   search engine, most Google users probably understand that Google   search results don’t have carry the editorial stamp of approval   from Google. ” ’   But this expectation gets more complicated when it comes to   Search sections like “Top Stories” or “In the news. ” ’ ’   When you search for something that relates to news on your   smartphone, Google will often present you with a carousel of   stories at the top labeled “Top stories. ” ’ ’   Here is what it looks like: ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   What ties all those “Top stories” together is that they are AMP   sites, Google’s   project to promote     webpages. Basically, any website that conforms to a set of   technical standards gets labeled an AMP site by Google, and gets   an “AMP” tag (with a little lightning bolt). ’ ’   One of the perks of being an AMP site is that you have the chance   to appear in the “Top stories” carousel. ’ ’   But though the “Top stories” carousel might strike you as similar   to Google News when you hear the name, Google views AMP as a   technical description, not as an editorial product. Anyone can   publish an AMP site, and the pages don’t even have to be      —   Ebay is one, for instance. ’ ’   Because of this stance, Google has no plans to have humans make   any editorial decisions about AMP pages. ’ ’   The “In the news” section rests in a similar situation. It is a   “Search” product not a “News” product, and so is not editorially   vetted. And while Google’s algorithms are good, the “70 News”   situation shows they can be gamed. ’ ’   This whole situation seems like an easy fix for Google: Have the   sections that appear to be news only pull from Google News, which   has stricter oversight. ’ ’Update: A source familiar with the matter says   Google has plans to remove the ”In the news” section from its   desktop search. ’