’  ’ ”   Donald Trump wants to reform America’s corporate tax system and   give companies a sweeter deal that encourage them to bring   profits home, instead of stashing them overseas.    Once some of this $2. 6 trillion is back onshore, it   could fuel investment and expansion and hiring and   acquisitions in the United States.   ” ’   But corporate America may not be interested in sharing its   new tax break with the rest of the country.   Instead, Goldman Sachs is predicting that the companies in   the S&P 500 Index  —   the 500 biggest public companies in   America  —   will spend a record amount of money on stock   buybacks next year.  ’ ’   From the report: ’ ”   Quick recap: in a stock buyback, companies buy their own shares   from the public markets using their own cash. Buybacks serve a   specific purpose: they make a company’s earnings   look better without them having to actually be better.   They can  —   though they haven’t much lately  —   help bolster a   company’s stock price.   The sacrifice here, though, is that the money spent on buybacks   is not being spent on building new factories, raising wages,   hiring workers or growing the business.    Trump’s tax plan is to lower the overall corporate rate   to 15% from 35%. It will also lower the tax rate on profits   stashed overseas to 10% which can be paid over 10   years.    The repatriation could lead to a 30% surge in buybacks by the   S&P 500 companies, Goldman says. Without tax reform, the   increase would be closer to 5%.  ” ”   In other words, a fat chunk of the money companies are going to   bring home is going to go right back to people who own stocks,   which is to say, not to investment in the overall economy and the   people who work in it.    To be fair, we should note that it’s not all going to   buybacks. Goldman says about half will go to more productive uses    —   like cash acquisition, research & development, and capital   expenditures. These will increase by 5% to 7% the bank predicts.   But repurchases will trump any one of these other uses in terms   of size.  ” ’  ’ ”   In the wake of Trump’s election to President of the United States   the stock market has rallied to   highs. While some   think this is a signal Trump will be great for corporate   America, this rush to buybacks tells us a different   story. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   And they have plenty of reason to worry too. Earnings have been   on the decline for years, and next year’s outlook isn’t much   better. Plus, borrowing costs are going up, not just   because the Federal Reserve will likely raise   interest rates, but also because markets are anticipating   that Trump will throw money at a stimulus package, resulting in   inflation. His tough stance on trade is also inflationary,   according to analysts at Deutsche Bank. ” ’   See, one thing is giving corporate America a tax break and saying   ”have at it.” Another thing is creating an economic environment   where corporations feel secure enough to invest. Obviously the   idea of a Trump presidency, though it has boosted stocks in the   extremely   isn’’t making companies feel secure into   2017.  ’ ”   Thanks to buybacks, though, that doesn’t mean their stocks will   go down substantially at the outset. It just means they won’t be   investing as much in the things that actually make America great    —   research and development, capital expenditures, and higher   wages. ” ”   Listen to BI’s Linette Lopez and Josh Barro talk Trump trade   policy on their podcast,  ” ’ ’