’  ’ ’     Donald Trump on Tuesday disavowed the   ”” the group consisting of   white   nationalists who overwhelmingly supported his presidential bid,   while asserting that his White House chief strategist, Steve   Bannon, is not among their ranks. ’ ”   Tweets from Trump’s meeting with The New York Times  Maggie Haberman, Mike   Grynbaum, Julie Davis, and others detailed a lengthy exchange on   Trump’s   support and Bannon. ” ’   ”I don’’t want to energize the group, and I disavow the group,”   Trump said. ”It’’s not a group I want to energize, and if they are   energized, I want to look into it and find out why.” ’ ’   Trump rejected the notion that he energized the  . The     was also asked about a white nationalist   conference held recently in Washington, DC, . ’ ’   Richard Spencer, an avowed white nationalist who coined the term   ” ” spoke at length at the conference about Trump’’s   victory leading to a return to power for ”Europeans” and made     remarks regarding Jews, with his speech ending in   chants of ”Heil Trump” from the crowd. ’ ’’ ’   ”I disavow and condemn them,” Trump said. ”Of course.” ’ ’   Speaking about Bannon, a top executive at Breitbart News  —   a   website Bannon has called ”the platform for the  ”  —     Trump said, ”If I thought he was a racist or   or any of   the things, the terms we could use, I wouldn’’t even think about   hiring him.” ’ ’   Bannon, who has been accused of   has insisted he is   not  . But his appointment was met with  from the left and even   some on the right. ’ ’   ”A lot of people are coming to his defense right now,” Trump   said. Trump’’s incoming White House chief of staff, Reince   Priebus, who was also at the New York Times meeting, also voiced   support for Bannon. ’ ’   ”I think it’’s very hard on him,” Trump said. ”I think he’’s having   a hard time with it. Because it’’s not him.” ’ ’   Trump also addressed Breitbart, which he said ”is just a   publication.” ’ ’   The outlet ran a headline on Tuesday that  after   Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway suggested he would not   pursue an investigation of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.   The publication has also come under fire for inflammatory   headlines and stories, and it has been unabashedly     throughout his campaign. ’ ’   ”They cover stories like you cover stories,” he said. ”They are   certainly a much more conservative paper, to put it mildly, than   The New York Times. But Breitbart really is a news organization   that has become quite successful. It’’s got readers, and it does   cover subjects on the right, but it covers subjects on the left   also. It’’s a pretty big thing.” ’