’  ’ ’     Donald Trump responded to renewed controversy   surrounding his business ties in a Tuesday interview with The New   York Times, insisting ”the president can’’t have a conflict of   interest” as he faces scrutiny . ’ ’   Tweets from  from the meeting showed that Trump understood how   his business ties could be perceived. ’ ’   ”The law’’s totally on my side. The president can’’t have a   conflict of interest,” he said. ”My company’’s so unimportant to   me relative to what I’’m doing.” ’ ’   Still, Trump said that ”in theory” he could continue signing   checks at his company, but he is ”phasing that out now” and   passing control of his company to his adult children. ’ ’   ”In theory, I could run my business perfectly and then run the   country perfectly,” he said, adding that ”there’’s never been a   case like this” involving the presidency. ’ ’’ ’   ”I’’d assumed that you’’d have to set up some type of trust or   whatever, and you don’’t,” he said. ”I would like to do   something.” ’ ’   Asked if he would simply sell his holdings, he said it would be a   ”really hard thing to do, because I have real estate.” ’ ”   Trump’s ability to separate his business ties from the presidency   has been questioned in recent days. His daughter Ivanka, who   stands to be a leader in taking over his company, sat in on a   meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe last week and was   on a congratulatory phone call between the   and   Argentine President Mauricio Macri. ” ’   ”If it were up to some people, I would never, ever see my   daughter Ivanka again,” Trump said. ’ ’   Trump also met last week in his Trump Tower office with three   Indian business partners who are building a     apartment complex near Mumbai, . ’ ’   The three men posed with Trump in a picture posted to Twitter,   and a spokeswoman for the Trump Organization described the   meeting as a courtesy call from the three executives. ’ ’   ”It was not a formal meeting of any kind,” Breanna Butler, the   spokeswoman, told The Times. ’ ”   In a text message exchange with The Times, one of the three   businessmen said a report in an Indian newspaper about another   partner discussing a desire to expand the deals with Trump’s   family was accurate. ” ’   Butler said the   would not be involved in the      dealings of the Trump Organization, while another   spokeswoman  ”the structure that is ultimately   selected will comply with all applicable rules and regulations.” ’ ’   At various points along the campaign trail, Trump said his   business would be controlled by his children in what he said was   a ”blind trust,” even though that constitutes an independent   manager who typically is not someone as closely tied to the   holder as their children. ’ ”   Ivanka’s presence in the meeting and on the phone call appeared   to only further blur the lines between the Trump business empire   and the upcoming Trump presidency. ” ’   According to a Sunday  at least 111 separate   Trump companies have conducted business in 18 countries across   South America, the Middle East, and Asia. Pointing specifically   to a Trump Towers project in Istanbul, something that Trump at   one point said could present ”a little conflict of interest,” The   Post wrote that ”policy and ethics experts are scrambling to   assess the potential dangers of public rule by a leader with a   vast web of private business deals.” ’ ’   The biggest legal risk Trump faces as a result of his business   ties is a passage in the Constitution known as the emoluments   clause, which forbids government officials from receiving gifts   from foreign governments. ’ ’   As The Post reported, a payment from a foreign official or     company to a Trump hotel or other company bearing his   name could potentially violate the clause. So could favorable   legislation or treatment overseas from a government aimed at   benefiting a Trump property. ’