’  ’ ’   A top aide to retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson told Business   Insider on Tuesday that he is ”seriously considering” what he   characterized as an offer from   Donald Trump to   be the secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban   Development. ’ ’   Armstrong Williams, Carson’’s business manager and close   confidant, added that the job is ”very attractive” to Carson. ’ ’   ”HUD is a place that has an impact on something that Dr. Carson   cares tremendously about,” Williams told Business Insider. ”The     and urban America. Dr. Carson really has a passion for   those issues where you could really make a difference and impact   America’’s mayors. And while he would like to remain in private   life, the president has made an offer that he will really   seriously consider, and that’’s what he’’s doing.” ’ ’   Carson had been rumored to also be in consideration for the   top positions in the Departments of Education and Health and   Human Services. ’ ’   Williams said ”all of them are very important in this country,”   but HUD would be a department that ties closely to ”a strong   passion that he has.” ’ ’’ ’   ”It doesn’’t matter what agency, Dr. Carson doesn’’t rank one over   the other,” Williams said. ”All are important. But he also   understands that, with housing and urban development and what you   can do in urban America, in these inner cities, it’’s very   attractive to him. It’’s a strong passion that he has.” ’ ’   During a Tuesday interview with Fox News, Carson said HUD   secretary ”was one of the offers that’’s on the table.” ’ ’   ”Our inner cities are in terrible shape and they definitely need   some real attention,” he said. ’ ’   Trump tweeted earlier Tuesday he’’s ”seriously considering” Carson   to be his HUD secretary, even though Carson had repeatedly   affirmed he is not looking to serve inside a Trump   administration. ’ ’   ”I am seriously considering Dr. Ben Carson as the head of HUD,”   . ”I’’ve gotten to know him well  —     he’’s a greatly talented person who loves people!” ’ ’   Carson met with Trump at Trump Tower on Tuesday. ’ ”   Last week, The Hill reported Williams said Carson   wouldn’t join the administration and would instead be   an unofficial adviser, after reports surfaced that Carson   rejected an offer to be HHS secretary. ” ’   ”Dr. Carson was never offered a specific position, but everything   was open to him,” Williams told The Hill. ”Dr. Carson feels he   has no government experience; he’’s never run a federal agency.   The last thing he would want to do was take a position that could   cripple the presidency.” ’ ’   Carson subsequently published a Facebook post disputing what   Williams attributed as his reason for not seeking a   position. And speaking to Business Insider on Tuesday, Williams   said Carson never completely ruled out serving in a Trump   administration. ’ ’   ”Only   interview last week was with Robert Costa of the   Washington Post, and he was very clear that his preference was to   not take a position, to stay outside,” Williams said. ”He thought   he would be more effective. But if the president did ask, he   would have to strongly consider the president’’s request. And the   president has made the request and Dr. Carson is strongly   considering.” ’ ’   In an interview with Business Insider just before the   election, Carson said, ”I don’’t want to be a part of the   administration.” ’ ’   ”Not that I have anything against it,” he said. ”Just that I   think my voice will actually be more valuable outside the   administration. There are so many issues that affect our country   right now, and we can’’t lose sight of them. So winning the   election is really just step one.” ’ ’   ”I’’ll continue to write, continue to speak publicly, and work on   helping to focus us as a nation on what’’s really important,” he   said. ’ ’   In a  however, Carson seemed   to signal a shift in his thinking, although he wrote ”there   is no reversal of my position in terms of working with the Trump   administration.” ’ ’   ”I have always made it clear that I preferred to work outside of   the government as an advisor, but if called upon, I would serve   inside of the government,” Carson wrote. ”I believe it is   important to have voices that are outside of the administration   combating media bia ’ ’  ’