’  ’ ’   The   wait for a ”Gilmore Girls” television reunion will   be over on Friday when Netflix releases the miniseries ”Gilmore   Girls: A Year in the Life.” ’ ’   Once a seemingly impossible feat, it took one event and the right   content company to make the revival happen. ’ ’   ”I lobbied for it for years,” Scott Patterson, who played diner   owner and Lorelai’’s love interest Luke on the series, recently   told Business Insider. ”I really tried to take up the cause for   the fans, because I know they wanted it so badly and deservedly   so. It was a concerted effort over a number of years.” ’ ’   ”Gilmore Girls” followed young, single mom Lorelai (Lauren   Graham) and her   friend Rory (Alexis Bledel) who   live in a small, quirky New England town. Lorelai’’s past comes   back to haunt her when she realizes that she has to ask her   wealthy, judgmental parents (played by Kelly Bishop and the late   Edward Herrmann) for a loan so she can send Lorelai to a highly   regarded private high school. ’ ’   Patterson and many of the    show’’s stars went on to   pretty successful careers. Meanwhile, the fan base for ”Gilmore   Girls” grew to include its original viewers and a whole new   generation of fans who were able to watch the show via DVD, On   Demand, and streaming. ’ ”   Buzz around the show seemed at an   high when a growing TV   festival held in Austin, Texas, the ATX Festival, planned to   reunite the show’s creator Amy   and its cast for   a panel in 2015. ” ’  ’ ’   ”I had virtually given up hope, but then ATX Festival in Austin   in the summer of 2015 kind of changed the temperature on the   whole thing,” Patterson said. ”I saw that it might happen and it   did.” ’ ’   At    said that a reunion was not   in the works, but left the possibility open. ’ ’   ”It would have to be the right everything  —   the right format, the   right timing,” she said of the potential project. ”It would have   to be honored in a certain way. If it ever came around, I think   we would all jump in and do it. If it ever happened, I promise   we’ll do it correctly.” ’ ”   Patterson told us he got a phone call   from    not long after the festival. In an interview with  the show’s creator said she got   verbal agreements from the four leads  —   Graham, Bledel, Bishop,   and Patterson  —   before pitching the show to three outlets,   including Netflix. ” ’   Netflix was an ideal creative partner for several reasons. Not   only does it stream all seven seasons of the ”Gilmore Girls” run,   but its programming president counted the show among . Second,   ratings aren’’t the bottom line at Netflix. Its business is in   signing up more subscribers. After all, ”Gilmore Girls” was never   a highly rated show and  during its   final season. Those aren’’t promising numbers for outlets that   depend on ratings. ’ ’   ”I knew Amy and [producing partner and husband] Dan [Palladino]   would write good material given the newfound freedom they had   with Netflix, that they didn’t have to adhere to any deep ratings   considerations,” Patterson said. ”Netflix is filled with very   bright people who had a vision for this and how to reboot it.” ’