’’ ”After a  you’re likely to come in contact with someone you don’t share the same views with.” ”It’s easy for these . If they involve family members, it can make the holidays especially stressful.” ’These are the  to help you get your point across in a courteous and educated way.’ ’Drake Baer contributed to an earlier version of this story.’ ”Attacking someone’s ideas puts them into    mode. Once they’re on edge, there will be no getting through to them.” ’So if you want to be convincing, practice ””  —   take your conversational partner’’s views and advance them to their logical, and perhaps absurd, conclusion.’ ”Contrary to what your debate coach said, arguments aren’t rational.” ”So respect the other person’s perspective, no matter how ridiculous it sounds.” ’”When people have their   validated in some way, they tend to be more receptive to information that challenges their beliefs,” Peter Ditto, a psychology professor at the University of California at Irvine,  in 2014.’ ’With that emotional connection established, you can then start getting logical.’ ”If you’re in a spat with your spouse, John Gottman, a psychologist who works with couples, says to .” ’Examples include:’ ’It can help in arguments at work, too  —     questions help transform competitive interactions into cooperative ones.’ ”People don’t listen to the smartest person in the room.” ’A  found that they listen to the people who act as if they know what is right.’ ’Bryan Bonner, a professor of management at the University of Utah, says people unconsciously look for ”messy proxies for expertise” such as extroversion, gender, race, or confidence level instead of paying attention to what a person is actually saying.’ ’”We’’d hope that facts would be the currency of influence,”  in 2013. ”But often, we guess at who’’s the expert  —   and we’’re wrong. ”’ ’In his book ”,” Robert Cialdini says ”social proof” is one of the best tactics for getting people to see things your way. It exploits the   tendency for people to conform to others’’ opinions, even if they’’re strange.’ ’According to social proof, we assume that what other people are doing is the correct behavior in a situation. It is the reason long lines in front of a restaurant make the food inside seem so tantalizing. It is also why having the endorsement of a celebrity is such an effective marketing tool.’ ’According to a  from Cornell University researchers Aner Tal and Brian Wansink, people trust scientists. Thus doing something that makes you appear scientific  —   like using a graph  —   makes you more trustworthy.’ ’”The prestige of science appears to grant persuasive power even to such trivial   elements as graphs,” .’ ’A story about how your uncle or college roommate eats loads of butter and still stays fit is an anecdote.’ ”But if you want to be taken seriously, you need to use data, the kind that’s arrived at through   studies with representative samples.” ’Better yet, go for consensus.’ ’”Scientists often use ’’consensus’’ as the ultimate   and for good reason,” . ”Scientific consensus is the collected opinions of all scientists, and not just the one you’’re arguing with.’ ’”There can be one or two scientists who disagree (just like there are a handful of people who don’’t believe the Holocaust happened) but if the vast majority of scientists have reached consensus, it means that there is so much evidence in support of an idea that it’’s basically a guaranteed thing, based on     knowledge. ”’