’  ’ ”     Donald Trump  that he plans to nominate South Carolina   Gov. Nikki Haley as US ambassador to the United Nations  —   but the   politicians’ relationship hasn’t always been genial. ” ’   Haley was  within the Republican Party   throughout campaigning for the 2016 election. ’ ’   Earlier this year, she delivered the rebuttal to President Barack   Obama’’s final State of the Union address, and it was widely   hailed as a   success. In the speech, she  by imploring Americans not to   succumb to ”the angriest voices.” ’ ’   ”We live in a time of threats like few others in recent memory,”   she said. ”During anxious times, it can be tempting to follow the   siren call of the angriest voices. We must resist that   temptation.” ’ ”   Haley is the daughter of Indian immigrants and the first woman   governor in South Carolina’s history. Some accused Trump of   stoking   rhetoric during his campaign for   president. ” ’’ ’   Trump also went after Haley during the primaries. In March, when   Haley was supporting Republican Sen. Marco Rubio,  ”The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by   Nikki Haley!”  with ”bless your heart,” which is not exactly   a nicety in the South. ’ ’   In September, Haley possibly referenced Trump’’s general election   rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton, when she tweeted that she   started her day with ”Fight Song” by Rachel Platten  —   the same   song Clinton blasted at nearly every public campaign appearance   she made. ’ ’   ”Wanted to share so that everyone gets an additional boost!”   . ’ ’   Haley supported Trump once he became the Republican nominee. And   she has been mentioned as a possible future Republican   presidential contender. ’ ’   Haley rose to national prominence when she  from the South Carolina capitol   grounds after nine black people were killed in a Charleston   church in June 2015. Removing the flag was seen as going against   the grain of traditional Southern conservative politics. ’ ’   ”It came down to one simple thing,” she  at the time. ”I couldn’’t look my son   or daughter in the face and justify that flag flying anymore.” ’ ’ that it ”was a moment of political and racial   drama, and a signature moment for Ms. Haley, who blended the   traditional values of the South  —   faith, family, empathy  —   into a   powerful call for taking down the flag as a gesture of unity,   healing and renewal.” ’ ”   Haley has had a high approval rating in South Carolina, but it   fell to 48% in a Public Policy Polling . She’s also fairly popular among Democrats. ” ’   She was elected to the South Carolina House of Representatives in   2004 and five years later was running for governor. ’ ’   Haley’’s campaign for the South Carolina House was fairly rocky at   times.  one state lawmaker called her a   ”raghead,” and ”campaign fliers compared a ’’white      owner’’ to an ’’Indian     . ’’” ’ ’   She became the youngest governor in South Carolina history at 38. ’ ’ Allan Smith contributed to this report. ’