’  ’ ”   Solar has generally been a difficult business, and that isn’t   looking to change under   Donald Trump. ” ”   Tesla  in a deal worth   roughly $2 billion on Monday. Prior to the shareholder vote, Musk   unveiled several solar products that will become the focus of   Tesla’s energy line. They include  that look like a normal roof,   but are embedded with solar cells to generate energy, as well as   an   battery, . ” ’   Tesla will also continue to install larger solar array projects   using its commercial battery,  as was the case with  that is now running almost   entirely on solar power. ’ ’   As is always the case with Tesla CEO Elon Musk, he did not enter   the solar business  . ’ ’   He has an entirely new product, the solar roof, to make   converting over to solar energy more  and therefore more   alluring, transition than traditional, clunky solar panel   installation. ’ ”   He’s also generating excitement for solar power through projects   like the Ta’u solar project, similarly to what he did for   electric cars. As Business Insider’s Matt DeBord has written,    and it could pay   off for solar the same way it did for EVs at a time of general   unpopularity. ” ”   But the solar industry, in general, has been fledgling  —   and it   doesn’t look like a Trump presidency will make things any   easier.  ” ’  ’ ”   Tesla acquired SolarCity’s roughly $3 billion in debt as part of   the merger. According to  debt is endemic among the solar   industry  —   the industry has borrowed $200 billion since 2010.     cash flow also declined massively in that period by   $3 billion. ” ’   As for SolarCity itself, the company posted losses in all but   three quarters since its IPO in 2012, and its shares have   declined by over 50% this year. ’ ”   Now, debt is fairly common among project power developers.   Tesla commented on SolarCity’s debt in a  post, stating that SolarCity’s assets   significantly exceed its recourse and   debt. Musk has   also said he would personally pay off SolarCity’s debt if     in a . ” ’   Still, debt issues aside, whether SolarCity can generate the cash   flow it needs has yet to be seen. ’ ’   SolarCity did change its strategy in 2016 to become more cash   positive. The company has conventionally leased panels, but is   now selling more panels to increase cash flow. SolarCity   introduced a  in June to incentivize   purchasing as part of that change in strategy. ’ ’   Tesla will also look to cut costs elsewhere in 2017 now that the   merger has been approved through ”synergies,” or . ’ ’   There’’s also been speculation that Musk will need to   eventually raise capital as Tesla looks to launch the Model 3 as   it takes on the solar business. Musk said in late October that   Tesla ”probably”  in the first   quarter of 2017, though. ’ ”   So in general, Tesla will look to increase SolarCity’s cash   flow as  to have it add $500 million   in cash to Tesla’s balance sheet over the next three years. Tesla   will also likely be prepping for a capital raise at some point in   the 2017 fiscal year. ” ’   But a Trump presidency throws a wrench in those plans. ’ ’  ’ ’     Donald Trump is an ardent climate denier, known   for his  that global warming   is a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese ’ ’   Trump has since acquiesced ever so slightly, saying there   is ”” between human activity and   climate change. ’ ”   But that’s not exactly a comforting   especially   considering  a known climate   denier without any scientific degrees or qualifications, to   oversee the Environmental Protection Agency. Ebell does not think   the government should support subsidies to catalyze adoption of   solar or wind energy. ” ’   ”We would like to get rid of all of this stuff,” Ebell  in August. ”And we   think that the use of energy will become more efficient just   through the innovations that will occur in free markets when   people are allowed to invest their money in things that can make   money.” ’ ”   Ebell reaffirmed his belief the government shouldn’t support   solar subsidies in a Nov. 9 . ” ”   Putting the fate of solar subsidies into question could be a   challenge for Tesla as it looks to increase SolarCity’s cash   flow. It also poses issues for when Tesla eventually looks to do   a capital raise. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tGood luck to   trying to raise money in capital markets with renewables subsidies in doubt. ’t’t’ ’   Angelo Zino, an equity analyst at CFRA Research, wrote in a Nov.   9 research note that a Trump presidency is bad for the solar   industry as it could negatively impact solar subsidies. ’ ’   ”We believe a Trump presidency along with a     Congress poses significant risks to a potential     of the 30% ITC [Solar Investment Tax   Credit] extended at the end of ’’15,” Zino wrote. ’ ”   Meanwhile, Trump is also looking to eliminate all climate   change research by stripping NASA’s earth science division   of its funding, t this week. ” ’   Trump also wants to roll back the Clean Power Plan that requires   the EPA to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by law. ’ ”   None of this bodes well for Tesla projects that rely on   government funding. For example, Tesla’s Ta’u solar project was   partially funded by the EPA.  ” ’  ’ ’   Musk, however, does not seem concerned. ’ ”   Musk said Tesla’s  than   installing a normal roof in a    session with   shareholders following the vote to acquire SolarCity. ” ’   ”Assuming it pans out that we are able to do a solar roof [for]   less than a normal roof, before you even take into account the   value of the electricity. Assuming that pans out, well subsidies   don’t even matter,” Musk said. ’ ’  ’ ’   But there are some issues with that line of thinking. ’ ’   For one, the impact Tesla’’s solar roof business will have on   SolarCity’’s 2017 cash flow largely depends on when it’’s being   sold. Musk said during that same    session   that Tesla will ”start doing the solar roofs in volume sometime   next year.” ’ ’   Solar cell production for the roof will occur at a factory in   Buffalo, New York toward the end of June, the . ’ ”   If production isn’t occurring until the end of June, the   profitability of Tesla’s solar roof won’t really start being seen   until the end of 2017. Considering it will roll out in California   first and become available in other states later, as the Buffalo   News also reported, it seems likely the impact it has on Tesla’s   bottom line won’t really be seen until fiscal year 2018. ” ”   That means Tesla’s solar business will continue to rely mostly on   traditional solar panel installation in 2017, something that does   rely on solar subsidies. It’s also difficult to take Musk’s solar   roof pricing claim at face value without any real numbers behind   it at this point. ” ”   Additionally, even if the solar roof has the same value   proposition as a   roof, customers aren’t exactly     their homes all too often. Musk has  adding that’s why traditional   panel installation will still be off erred. ” ”   But the point is that Musk is putting a lot of fate in its solar   roof business taking off when the product isn’t likely to exist   until   pricing is still unavailable, and demand is still   largely unknown. All of this while the fate of solar   subsidies are bleak. ” ”   That’s not to say Tesla doesn’t stand a fighting chance. The   solar roof product does make the premise of solar installation   more exciting and futuristic.  ” ”   But the timing of it all is tricky, and Trump isn’t bound to make   things any easier. ”