’  ’ ’   Diplomats who gathered earlier this month in Marrakech, Morocco   for COP22, the United Nations climate change summit, already   faced a difficult proposition: how to   and implement the   international agreement on climate change drafted last year in   Paris. ’ ’   The election of Donald Trump as the next president of the United   States confounded that process even more, throwing into question   many aspects of the deal that previously seemed settled,   including who will lead the industrialized nations of the world   in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. ’ ’ is a professor of energy   and environmental policy at Tufts University’s Fletcher School of   Law and Diplomacy. From June 2014 to September 2015, she served   in the Obama Administration as a senior policy advisor in the   White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and as senior   China advisor in the Special Envoy for Climate Change office at   the U. S. State Department. ’ ’   She spoke with The GroundTruth Project’s Chris Bentley about   Trump’s impact on the international relations of the Paris   climate agreement, and what effect the U. S. election might have   on climate politics in Europe and China. ’ ’CB: How has the U. S. election changed China’s   position within the Paris Agreement? ’ ’KSG: Fundamentally, I think the Chinese are   expecting that the U. S.  relationship on climate will be   very different. It’s still to be seen. I think     Trump is a very practical person. He prides himself on being a   negotiator, and I think he will soon realize that the climate   issue during the Obama administration became one of the sole   bright spots in the U. S.  relationship. And in any kind of   broader, bilateral relationship, you want to have some things   that are going well, because there’s inevitably going to be   tension on other things. Both the United States and China have   gotten to a very good place on climate, kind of   on   this topic. I think the Chinese and many other people were   concerned that, if the United States pulls out of the Paris   agreement, that China would feel a lot of pressure to do the   same. One of the reasons why both joined was that they did so   together as the two largest emitters of greenhouse gases. I’m   very pleased that the Chinese government here in Marrakech has   made clear that they intend to stay the course no matter   what —  even if   Trump pulls out of the Paris   Agreement. ’ ’   I should say that, for the U. S. and China to come together in the   first place and create this leadership role, [it] was   unprecedented. It was almost an unholy coalition. In the past,   there was a very sharp division between industrialized and   developing countries. China was the de facto leader of the   developing country coalition, and the United States was the de   facto leader of the industrialized country coalition. So, for the   two of them to cut across this huge gulf was really   transformative, and part of what led to the achievement of the   Paris Agreement. ’ ’   I think China will be very uncomfortable now, staying in a   leadership position. They don’t want to be so far out in front of   all the other countries. They have a choice of either looking for   another partner that can   with them from the   industrialized countries —  Europe is an obvious choice, but I guess   the downside of Europe is that it’s not clear which leader in   Europe will take up the mantle and replace President Obama.   People like Angela Merkel and François Hollande, they have a lot   of other things that they’re focused on right now. And so it’s   just not clear that that’s going to happen. It’s possible that   China will retreat a little bit and take kind of a backseat   position in the international process. ’ ’   What I think is so encouraging is that, in terms of its own   target for the Paris agreement, China is being extremely clear   that it intends to stay the course, which indeed is a very   ambitious target. There’s the pledge to peak emissions but also   to achieve a very high percentage of   energy in their   primary energy supply  —   there’s a carbon intensity target, an   energy intensity target. So,  I think that they will not   slow down. ’ ’  ’ ’CB: Besides dealing with the fallout of the U. S.   election, what are the biggest challenges for implementing the   Paris Agreement now? ’ ’KSG: There’s three ways to answer this. One   is what’s going to happen in terms of elaborating the rules and   procedures and modeling is the Paris Agreement. Then, there’s   this question of who’s going to actually achieve their own   domestic targets. And then, how do we go beyond Paris, what comes   next for the   period? ’ ’   A lot of things were left unspecified when they did the   agreement. For example, the transparency framework —  how will   countries report on what they’re doing so that everybody can   understand whether or not they’re achieving the targets that they   created for themselves? To me, that’s probably the most   important. There are financial procedures for how to move the   climate finance into the Green Climate Fund, and how the fund   will in turn disperse that money and for what purposes. The big   debate has been how much will go to adaptation versus how much   will go to mitigation projects. And there’s also been a lot of   discussion of something called the “loss and damage” mechanism,   which is how will countries be compensated for climate damages,   if at all. And, of course, this is a pretty contentious issue. ’ ’CB: The U. S. had been a stumbling block in that   discussion over “loss and damage” compensation. So, with the U. S.   playing less of a role, is it possible there will be more   movement on that front? ’ ’KSG: This is something that     Trump needs to understand: if he pulls out of this agreement, we   lose a seat at the negotiating table. And, indeed, we will not be   able to shape these rules and procedures and the successor to the   Paris Agreement the way that we would be able to if we stay in. I   think he may find that there are significant diplomatic   consequences to pulling out. This is a   issue for many   other countries. So once he starts interacting with foreign   leaders and realizing that they’re raising this as one of their   top priorities, if he wants to be able to get something from   other leaders, he’s going to have to understand that one of the   things they want from us is to stay in this agreement. ’ ’CB: That’s interesting, because Trump ran on a   platform of reforming trade deals, and Nicolas Sarkozy and some   others have floated this idea of a carbon border tax on the U. S.   if it leaves the Paris Agreement. Is that something that could   actually happen? How would that play out, and do you think it   would actually have any effect? Trump purportedly doesn’t even   believe climate change exists, so how likely is he to consider it   in a negotiation on trade? ’ ’KSG: Well, a border tax adjustment is a   regularly used tool in international trade by countries who, if   they believe that another country is dumping products in their   country, they can impose a border tax adjustment to try and   equalize the price to make their domestic products competitive.   If President Trump pulls out of the Paris Agreement, and thus   does not bind himself to honor the U. S. target, it would be   perfectly reasonable for many other countries to impose border   tax adjustments on products coming in based on their carbon   content. I think it is quite likely that they would do so. ’ ’  ’ ’CB: Who would start that, the E. U.? ’ ’KSG: It’s possible that the E. U. would do   that. It’s possible that the Chinese would do that. I think the   countries that have the strongest targets [under the Paris   Agreement] that are putting a lot of effort into their targets,   are going to have industries that are saying, “Hey, this is not   fair. We’re having to compete against these Americans that aren’t   bound by the same target,” and so, to equalize or normalize the   treatment of the firms, they would have to do something like a   border tax adjustment. ’ ’CB: Could Trump take that issue to World Trade   Organization, or some other international trade organization? ’ ’KSG: He absolutely could. And it would be   arbitrated under the WTO, but for the most part, any kind of   border tax adjustment stays in place until that arbitration is   finished. So, U. S. firms could suffer for years under that   scenario. ’ ’   Also I think he will soon realize that one of the big engines of   growth in the U. S. economy has in fact been the clean energy   industry  —   whether it’s the natural gas industry, solar and wind   industries  —   and I think these firms want to take advantage of   the markets that are being created by the climate policies around   the world. So companies like G. E. could really suffer if they’re   facing these kinds of border tax adjustments or even just not   getting the stability and certainty of a stable policy   environment in the United States. ’ ’   So, I think there’s going to be a lot of pressure from the clean   energy industry and all the jobs associated with those industries   in the United States to stay the course, because in fact this has   been a pretty big engine of growth. ’ ’CB: That may be so, but is there enough of that   pressure to counter pressure from the   based companies   in the U. S. who are probably better represented in Washington   than renewable energy? Don’t you have somebody in the White House   now who’s going to be pushing against this deal on every front? ’ ’KSG: It’s very hard to predict. I think   that, if President Trump is just pragmatic on this issue, he’s   going to understand  it’s a much more mixed bag than some of   the ideologues that are advising him have suggested. He’ll   realize that the gas industry accounts for a huge number of U. S.   jobs, and so too do the renewable energy industries, and he may   not want to jeopardize these jobs. But I just don’t know how much   of this he realizes yet. Indeed, he has embraced some prominent   climate skeptics  —   Myron Ebell, most prominently. ’ ’   I think the third risk for the international process on climate   change is really the next step. In the Paris Agreement, there is   a provision to have and a 2018 facilitative dialogue and then a   2023 global stocktaking exercise. Those are fancy names for   trying to determine how we take the next step beyond the Paris   agreement to go beyond stabilizing emissions, which is what the   Paris agreement actually achieved, to bending the curve down and   getting actual global reductions in greenhouse gas emissions to   avoid a   or even a    degrees Celsius   temperature change. So, while the Paris Agreement was a great   success, it really should still be understood as a first step in   actually achieving the goal of preventing dangerous climate   change. ’ ’   If President Trump is a   president, the U. S. is very   likely to achieve its 2020 pledge, because the Obama   administration set the country on a pretty strong course of   emissions reductions. But it would be very difficult for the U. S.   to achieve its 2025 Paris target without additional policy. And   if the United States can’t achieve its 2025 target, it’s hard to   imagine what their next step would be. So what happens in 2020 is   a big question. ’ ’  ’ ’CB: Does that mean other countries are waiting   to see what happens in the 2020 U. S. election, too? ’ ’KSG: A rather cynical perspective on this   is that President Trump could stay in the Paris Agreement, but   not do anything domestically to make sure that the U. S. honors   it —  to essentially   on all the work other countries are   doing and retain his seat at the table. The global will to act   allows him to keep a seat at the negotiating table, avoid things   like border tax adjustments that would affect U. S. firms, but it   would essentially be a   position. ’ ’CB: On the transparency issue, what’s the talk   about how that’s going to be done? How are countries in the Paris   Agreement supposed to know the rest of the world is living up to   their promises? ’ ’KSG: It’s very unclear how we are actually going   to achieve this transparency mechanism. You have to understand   that there’s huge variations in the capacities of different   countries. The ability of the United States to track in a   detailed way different sectors of its economy is quite refined.   Compare that to a country like Zimbabwe that has a much smaller   bureaucracy, and much weaker   capabilities. It’s   complicated, expensive  —   it requires a lot of staff and a lot of   technical expertise. Sofinding a     mechanism is   going to be really quite challenging. It seems like they’re going   to launch a process in 2017 to hear from all parties and hold   several workshops, engage some technical experts and then try to   achieve an agreement at the next Conference of the Parties in   2017. ’ ’   I personally would try to create a   model and then   encourage countries to do the best they can to achieve those best   practices. Of course, there’s other support that can be provided   to these countries —  sending international experts to do this kind   of work [and] providing the technical assistance that they need. ’