’  ’ ’     Donald Trump met with former CIA Director David   Petraeus on Monday to . ’ ’   ”Just met with General Petraeus  —   was very impressed!”  shortly after the meeting. ’ ’   Much has been made of the fact Petraeus pleaded guilty in 2015 to   a misdemeanor charge of mishandling classified information, and   Trump has lambasted Democratic presidential nominee Hillary   Clinton for doing what he claimed was worse while she was   secretary of state. ’ ”   In comparing both situations this summer  —   following his   announcement that the FBI would not pursue charges against   Clinton  —   FBI Director James Comey explained at a congressional   hearing why the case involving Petraeus compromising classified   information was different from the investigation into Clinton’s   use of a private email server. ” ’   The Petraeus case ”illustrates importantly the distinction to   this case,” Comey said at the hearing, held by the House   Oversight and Government Reform Committee. ’ ’’ ’ days before, Comey said the   investigation yielded no evidence that Clinton deliberately   attempted to mislead investigators. He added that even though he   described Clinton as being ”extremely careless” with sensitive   information, her conduct did not meet the threshold used to   prosecute past violators who shared classified information over   unclassified channels. ’ ’   Petraeus had disclosed classified information to his biographer. ’ ’   Trump said shortly after Comey’’s announcement about the Clinton   investigation that he believed Petraeus got in trouble for ”far   less.” ’ ’   ”The system is rigged,” Trump wrote on Twitter. ”General Petraeus   got in trouble for far less. Very very unfair! As usual, bad   judgment.” ’ ’   Petraeus kept highly classified information in a set of notebooks   at his private residence, Comey said. The notebooks contained   identities of covert officers, war strategy, and discussions with   the president, and Petraeus disclosed the information with his   biographer, with whom he was also having an affair. ’ ’   ”The Petraeus case to my mind illustrates perfectly the kinds of   cases the Department of Justice is willing to prosecute,” Comey   said. ”Even there they prosecuted him for a misdemeanor.” ’ ’   Petraeus ”not only shared [classified information] with someone   who was not allowed to have it, but we found it in a search   warrant under the insulation in his attic, and then he lied to us   about it in the investigation,” Comey said. ’ ’   He said Petraeus obstructed justice and committed intentional   misconduct and later admitted it was the wrong thing to do. ’ ’   ”You have a perfect illustration of the kind of cases that get   prosecuted,” he said. ’ ’   Asked by Democratic Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland whether the   Clinton investigation was more damning than Petraeus’’ case, Comey   said, ”No, it’’s the reverse.” ’ ’   ”His conduct to me illustrates the category of behavior that   marks the prosecutions that are actually brought,” Comey said. ’