”   I’ve owned the   Apple TV for over a year now.   It’s good, but in my opinion, it’s not better than the older   versions of the Apple TV. ” ’  ’ ”   This shouldn’t be the case. The new Apple TV is faster and   snappier, has an App Store, and has Siri so you can search and   navigate using only your voice, if that’s your thing. It even has   a   trackpad on the remote (touch gestures make   everything better, right? ). It can even do gaming! ” ’   Unfortunately, these features sound way better on paper than they   are in practice. Let me go through each of them one by one, based   on my experience: ’ ”   The   Apple TV should be so much better than it   is, which is inaccurate and generally unpleasant. It doesn’t help   that the   box itself is bigger than past models for no   apparent reason (Siri can’t take up that much space, can it?)   and that . (Did you know you can make the Apple   TV go to sleep by pressing and holding that TV button? I did not,   until someone who actually helped develop the Apple TV told me   over the phone.) ” ”   In general, I can’t help but feel like this is where Apple   products are heading. ” ’   In the case of the Apple TV, it feels like newness is prioritized   over usefulness and intuitiveness. But ”new,” in the Apple TV,   only means slight improvements, with few meaningful   innovations. You can draw parallels to Apple’’s other recent   products: ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   If you’re noticing a trend here, it’s that Apple’s newest   products do offer some basic improvements, but are still loaded   down with their own respective issues  —   again, it feels like   newness is given priority over usefulness. For every positive in   these new products, there’s at least one negative. As someone   who’s used and owned Apple products all my life, it’s a worrying   trend: It feels like Apple’s approach to products is altering   course, moving away from minimalism and perfectionism, and moving   towards   and novelty. The company’s latest   products are good, not great. ” ”   Perhaps Jony Ive, Apple’s design chief,  after 25 years   of working there. Or perhaps the current leadership, led by CEO   Tim Cook, favors the company’s bottom line over its product   designs, as a means to appease shareholders. Regardless, don’t   expect a mea culpa from Apple; I do believe the company is   listening to fans and users, and is making concerted efforts to   give people what they want, but Apple would never admit its   products are anything less than perfect. Let’s just hope Apple   is listening, that next year’s products fix some of the   biggest issues, and that the company’s more exciting plans (VR,   AR, cars) come to fruition. Because Apple, and many of its   products, used to be great. But right now, they’re all just good. ”