’  ’ ’   Brace yourselves. ’ ’   China’’s about to open its ”,”   stock market to the world. ’ ”   Last Friday, Beijing announced that the   connect   will go live on December 5. The link will give international   investors access into China’s smaller,   Shenzhen   exchange. ” ”   Authorities toyed with the idea of launching the link last year,   but the plan was delayed following the August 2015 market crash  —     back when China’s currency, the renminbi, . ” ”   The Shenzhen connect follows the November 2014 launch of the     Kong stock connect, which allowed international   investors to access China’s larger Shanghai exchange. ” ’   Notably, the Shenzhen exchange is a bit of a wild card and   is the second busiest in the world  —   despite being only the   7th largest. Most of the firms listed are small and unknown   and their overall valuations are higher than those in Hong   Kong, . Plus, the exchange is reportedly   known for speculative trading. ’ ”   China’s cabinet originally approved plans for the Shenzhen link   back in August, although,  analysts were not expecting a huge inflow of   funds. ” ’  ’ ’ on Monday’ ’  ’ ”   An interesting angle to the Shenzhen connect’s inauguration   is the timing: the link will be going live at a time when China   struggles with  and a weaker renminbi. ” ’  ’ ’   Notably, there will be a daily quota on the Shenzhen link:   international investors can trade up to 13 billion yuan per day   of   in Shenzhen stocks, while mainland investors can   trade up to 10. 5 billion yuan per day of Hong Kong stocks,   according to Jefferies. ’ ’  ’ ”   Zooming out for the bigger picture, the decision to move forward   with the Shenzhen exchange is seen as another play by China   to slowly intermingle with global markets and to   further advance its currency on the international stage. But   it also happens to follow  to delay including China’s domestic   equities in the  for the third time.  ” ’   At the time, Remy Briand, MSCI Managing Director and Global   Head of Research, said that ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s worth adding that there are differences between the Shenzhen   link and the Shanghai link. While the Shanghai exchange is   home to   —   or SEOs —   financials, and energy,   the Shenzhen is   and includes     and healthcare companies. (As an interesting side note: this   somewhat mimics China’s agenda of moving from and     economy to a   one.) ” ’   This ”could generate greater enthusiasm from international   investors,” argued a Societe Generale team led by Frank   Benzimra, the head of Asia Equity Strategy, in a note to clients.   Moreover, ”there are fewer dual listed companies, which were not   attractive value propositions at the time of the Shanghai connect   launch due to the premium at which these stocks traded versus   their offshore peers.” ’ ’   However,  that the move will   actually grab investor attention in light of China’’s overall   economic slowdown. Plus, the fact that the exchange is known   for speculative trading has kept some investors feeling ”wary,”   according to the . ’