’  ’ ’   There is a lot of talk out there about the   market right   now. ’ ’   Hedge fund manager” while  on TV. ’ ”   It’s a topic we’ve been paying attention to as well. In a   presentation in September  Gordon Smith,   the chief executive for consumer and community banking at   JPMorgan, . ” ”   Now the New York Federal Reserve is taking a closer look at the   market. In a blog published Wednesday on the New York Fed’s   Liberty Street Economics site, researchers highlighted the   deteriorating performance of subprime auto loans and set off the   alarm. ” ’   ”The worsening in the delinquency rate of subprime auto loans is   pronounced, with a notable increase during the past few years,”   the report said. ’ ’   To be clear, the overall delinquency rate for auto loans is   pretty stable, and the majority are performing well. ’ ’   There are, however, signs of stress in the subprime market   segment, which has seen rapid growth. Here are the key numbers   from the report: ’ ’   In other words, the subprime delinquency rate is creeping up,   while the subprime market is ballooning in size. The Liberty   Street Economics post, written by Andrew Haughwout, Donghoon Lee,   Joelle Scally, and Wilbert van der Klaauw, said: ’ ’   ”The data suggest some notable deterioration in the performance   of subprime auto loans. This translates into a large number of   households, with roughly six million individuals at least ninety   days late on their auto loan payments.” ’ ’  ’ ”   This research has broader significance beyond the     market. We’ve previously reported at length on . ” ’   According to UBS research, 65% 36% and 22% of       and   cohorts are ”stressed.” That means their income   falls below or barely covers their expenses. And almost one in   five stressed households, or 18% agreed or strongly agreed with   the likelihood of a default over the next year. ’ ’   When these stressed households were asked what  auto loans ranked   third, behind credit cards and student debt. ’ ’   ”Even though the balances of subprime loans are somewhat smaller   on average, the increased level of distress associated with   subprime loan delinquencies is of significant concern, and likely   to have ongoing consequences for affected households,” the   Liberty Street Economics post said. ’