’  ’ ”   Kevin Burns, Chobani’s COO and a crucial figure in the   company’s recent turnaround, is leaving the yogurt   maker.     Burns, who joined Chobani while a partner at private equity   firm TPG in 2014, was once an expected successor to CEO   Hamdi Ulukaya.    The company told employees of the departure on Friday, in a   letter from Ulukaya that was obtained by Business Insider.  ” ’   ”As everyone knows, over the past 2. 5 years Kevin’s had a big   impact on Chobani,” Ulukaya wrote. ”He put the Turkish nazar on   his wrist on day one and never took it off,” he wrote, referring   to the blue   charm.      ”With my full respect & support, Kevin’’s going to be leaving   Chobani on December 16th. His impact will stay with us for a   long time and he’ll always be part of the family.” ’ ’   Ulukaya has already interviewed several candidates to   replace Burns and plans to announce the new hire within the next   60 to 90 days. Chobani declined to comment on the letter. ’ ”   Burns joined Chobani after TPG offered the company a $750 million   loan in April of 2014. At the time, Chobani was struggling   financially following production issues and a product recall the   prior year. As TPG’s head of global operations and a partner at   the firm, Burns was crucial to negotiations between the   investor and the yogurt maker. ” ’  ’ ”   As part of the deal, Burns joined Chobani as interim COO and   president. The Wall Street Journal  that Burns was key to improving   the company’s procurement, distribution, and plant operations. ” ”   As Chobani stabilized following TPG’s investment, Burns was   dubbed a  by the New York Post. Both the Post and the    reported that he was a top candidate to   replace Ulukaya as CEO in early 2015.  ” ”   Rumors of Burns’ ascendancy to CEO proved to be false, however.   Ulukaya still serves as the company’s CEO. ” ’   ”Nobody could think of Chobani without me and me without   Chobani,”  in September 2015. ”Walking away from   this is walking away from my life.” ’ ”   Chobani has been filling out the rest of its executive   suite. In April,  and in August, the company  In February,   Ulukaya said that Chobani  due in   part to the company’s desire to remain independent.  ” ” that Chobani began a refinancing   process to repay TPG’s loan in September. According to Bloomberg,   TPG will likely recoup more than $350 million on its   investment.  ”