’’ ’Chance the Rapper is the most talented rapper of his generation and a pioneer in the music industry. His latest album, ”Coloring Book,” released in May, is one of the the year’’s   albums. .’ ”This year, the Grammys made   albums  for the first time. Chance, whose real name is Chancellor Bennett, made history again as  including one for Best Rap Album. It’s the first   album to be nominated in any category.” ”Miraculously, Chance has done all of this without a label supporting him. He’s turned down record deals from numerous labels, and depends on    and  for distribution.” ’Meet the most successful   musician of our era:’ ”He formally kicked off his career with  It got him some attention in Chicago’s hip hop scene, and Chance spent another eight months tinkering with the rest of the album.” ’ ’ ’The album was released in 2012  and got Chance a cult following.’ ’It’’s called ”10 Day” because .’ ’.’ ’”Acid Rap” got on a bunch of    lists. The most popular song on the album on Soundcloud,  features Childish Gambino.’ ’ was a hit, and  is .’ ’’ ’ ’ ’In 2015, Chance joined a band called Donnie Trumpet & The Social Experiment, a collective of   musicians, for a quirky album called ”Surf. ”’ ’The music was a stylistic departure for Chance. His vocal performance was still rap, but it’’s not really a rap album. The whole thing takes a jazzy and explicitly Christian tone. The highlight is a track called .” Chance   the music video.’ ’Chance  ”Sunday Candy”  and ”Paradise” from ”Surf” on ”Saturday Night Live” on December 15, 2015. He was the first unsigned artist to do so.’ ’In 2014, Chance worked on five songs for Kanye West’’s 2016 album ”The Life of Pablo. ”’ ’He provided guest vocals for   ”I met Kanye West, I’’m never going to   said let’’s do a good ass job with Chance   hear you gotta sell it to snatch the  ’’s make it so free and the bars so   there ain’’t one gosh darn part you can’’t tweet. ”’ ’ ’ ’The two performed ”Ultralight Beam” together.’ ’ is about how much Chance wants to keep record labels far, far away from his music. The album is widely considered to be one of the best of the year.’ ’’ ’It hit #8 in its peak position, .’ ’In the middle of a backstage interview with MTV, Chance was interrupted by Beyoncé sneaking up behind him. He, quite understandably, .’ ’Given the success of ”Coloring Book,” the Grammys  to allow   titles to be nominated.’ ’CBS unveiled its  on December 6, and Chance is up for seven of them.’ ’”Coloring Book” is nominated in the Best Rap Album category, up against albums from Drake, DJ Khaled, De La Soul, ScHoolboy Q, and his mentor Kanye West.’ ’He’’s also nominated for Best New Artist, for Best Rap Performance and Best Rap Song with  and for performing on Kanye’’s ”Ultralight Beam. ”’ ”Chance the Rapper is only 23, and he’s running out of barriers to break.”