’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Students  have written letters, signed petitions, and   protested to demand that their schools commit to protecting   undocumented students who risk  that shields them from deportation under the   Trump administration. ’ ’   In response, administrators on  The term doesn’t have a   specific legal definition. Instead, it echoes the policies of   “sanctuary cities” like  New York, and  which have policies that   limit cooperation between local authorities and federal   immigration officers.  ’ ’   Even   Donald Trump’s alma mater, the University of   Pennsylvania, called itself a sanctuary and  Penn   administrators also said they will not share information about   students’ immigration status unless required by law or subpoena ’ ’   But not all colleges are going along with the trend. ’ ’   Officials in Texas and Georgia, for instance, have already    to schools that   designate themselves as sanctuaries —  meaning that schools there   have to take that threat into consideration. This mirrors the   threat by Trump to . ’ ’   “They’re welcome to do whatever they want, but there are   consequences,” Georgia state lawmaker Earl Ehrhart  “If they completely ignore the   statutes in this country and proceed with illegal behavior, then   the taxpayers of the state of Georgia don’t need to be funding   them. ” ’ ’   Some schools —   Rice University, Washington State   University, and Princeton University, among others —  have affirmed   their commitment to undocumented students by taking steps like   promising to support DACA or refusing to release private   information, including immigration status, unless required to by   law or subpoena, but have stopped short of officially declaring   themselves sanctuaries,  ’ ’ ’ ’   “I don’t think there’s any useful application of the idea of   sanctuary to universities,” Princeton president Christopher   Eisgruber  the Daily Princetonian. “It   doesn’t clarify anything to use a concept that may wrongly   suggest that somehow universities can insulate themselves from or   exempt themselves from the application of law. ” ’ ’   New Mexico State University Chancellor Garrey Carruthers wrote in   a  that he will neither name the university   an official sanctuary campus, nor ban federal law enforcement   agents from coming onto campus. ’ ’   “Doing so would jeopardize our federal funding, as well as our   ability to issue student visas to our international students and   visiting scholars,” Carruthers explained in the memo. ’ ’   But according to some immigration lawyers, vowing to protect   undocumented students shouldn’t put them at risk with the federal   government. The Fourth Amendment protects students’ records, and   warrants are required for immigration enforcement actions.   Schools, including universities, are considered “sensitive   locations,” according to a 2011 Immigration and Customs   Enforcement  which was  in 2016. ICE actions at these   locations require either special approval or extreme   circumstances that require immediate action, like a danger to   public safety. ’ ’  ’ ’   “Universities and the colleges have at their disposition a lot of   the law and tools to be able to protect the students,”    executive director María Blanco  “If you really look behind   what people are asking for when they say sanctuary, they are   asking for some really doable things. ” ’ ’   While Trump has promised to cancel all executive actions, memos,   and orders issued by Obama —  which would include DACA —  and cancel   federal funding to Sanctuary Cities in his first 100 days, no one   from the Trump transition team has announced plans to revoke or   revisit the  ACLU legislative   counsel Joanne Lin told me. ’ ’   Versions of the sensitive location policy have existed under both   Democrat and Republican administrations, including George W.   Bush, Lin explained. Still, the policy is not a statute or   regulation, so it is subject to the discretion of the incoming   administration to discontinue it, modify it, or leave it alone. ’ ’   “Based on who we are seeing the incoming administration surround   themselves with immigration   it’s our sense that this   policy is in high danger of being rescinded,”  managing attorney Jose   told me. “We are   going to continue to advocate the incoming administration and   congressional partners to try to protect it. ” ’