’  ’ ’     Donald Trump fired back at the Wall Street   Journal editorial board after it criticized his deal to stop   manufacturer Carrier from shipping several hundred jobs overseas. ’ ’   Earlier this month, the editorial board  the deal  —   which will keep several hundred   jobs in Indiana in exchange for a $7 million tax break, while   allowing the company to outsource over a thousand jobs  —     as a ”shakedown,” and said ”America won’’t become more   prosperous by forcing companies to make noneconomic investments.” ’ ’   ”A mercantilist Trump trade policy that jeopardized those exports   would throw far more Americans out of work than the relatively     jobs he’s preserved for now in Indianapolis,” . ”Mr. Trump’s Carrier squeeze   might even cost more U. S. jobs if it makes CEOs more reluctant to   build plants in the U. S. because it would be politically   difficult to close them.” ’ ”   In an interview with Fox News that aired on Sunday, the     claimed that the Journal board didn’t understand   business. ” ’   ”People have said they don’’t understand really what I’’m doing. I   read the Wall Street Journal the other day. Honestly, their   editorial board doesn’’t get it. I don’’t think they understand   business. I don’t think the Wall Street Journal editorial board,   and I know some of them, they’’re really nice. I don’t think they   understand business,” Trump said. ’ ’’ ”   Trump ignored the Journal’s claim that the small jobs savings   would be offset by the rising cost of goods, reiterating his   promise to  a 35% tariff on companies that outsource jobs. ” ’   ”There’’s a 35 percent tax, but there is no tax if you don’’t move.   But if you move your plant or factory and you want to sell back   into our country, you fire all your people, there are going to be   consequences for that. There are going to be consequences,” Trump   said. ’ ”   The Wall Street Journal editorial board  —   a conservative   body traditionally   with Republican politicians on   economic issues  —   has clashed at times with the     mogul’s economic proposals, particularly on international trade. ” ’   Earlier this year, one member of the board  calling Trump the candidate of   ”white supremacists and swastika devotees.” ’