’  ’ ’   Evidence that Russia attempted to sway the outcome of the   presidential election with a hacking campaign targeting Democrats   ”is the political equivalent of ” the former acting director   of the CIA, Michael Morell, said in an interview published   Monday. ’ ’   Morell, an intelligence analyst who served as acting director of   the CIA twice between 2011 and 2013,  that revelations disclosed  about how Russia meddled in the election to   help get Donald Trump elected ”is an attack on our very   democracy.” ’ ’   ”A foreign government messing around in our elections is, I   think, an existential threat to our way of life,” Morell said.   ”To me, and this is to me not an overstatement, this is the   political equivalent of  .” ’ ”   In a secret assessment  —   the content of which has been leaked to   the press via   officials briefed on the intelligence  —     the CIA said Russia was not just trying to undermine confidence   in the US election process when it hacked the emails of the   Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign   chairman, John Podesta. ” ”   Rather, the report said, the Russians were : to hurt   Clinton and boost Trump. That assessment was bolstered by the   CIA’s discovery that the Russians  but chose   not to release any of the information, lending credence to the   idea that the Kremlin made a specific and targeted effort to   embarrass Democrats. RNC Chairman Reince Priebus has denied the   committee was hacked. ” ’’ ’   ”We’’ll never know what the Russians did, whether it affected a   single vote or not,” said Morell, who briefed George W. Bush   after the September 11, 2001, terror attacks. ”But what we can do   is figure out exactly what they did and make changes here at home   as to how information is handled, how we protect information, and   make sure they never do this again.” ’ ’   Morell said he had not been briefed on the new intelligence and   knew only what had been reported . But he said the US intelligence   community knew as early as October that the Russian government   was behind the hacks, and that he called on the Obama   administration to launch an ”overt” response to Russia’’s meddling   that’’s ”got to be significant from Putin’’s perspective.” ’ ’   ”He has to feel some pain, he has to pay a price here or again,   there will be no deterrence, and it has to be seen by the rest of   the world as being significant to Mr. Putin so that it can be a   deterrent,” Morell said. ’ ’   President Barack Obama has ordered the intelligence community    into the Russian hacking campaign   and how it may have affected the presidential election. The Obama   administration has also been weighing various retaliatory   measures, from imposing sanctions to . ’