’  ’ ’   Cohesity is a storage startup that emerged from stealth just a   year ago. It was founded by Mohit Aron, the cofounder and former   CTO of Nutanix. ’ ’   Cohesity is growing so fast, Aron just sent the entire company   and their families on a   trip to Maui, Hawaii. ’ ’   The company has about 110 employees  —   so big that it had to break   the trip into two parts. The 50 or so engineering employees plus   their families are on the island now. Aron is with them, and he   sent us a few pictures. ’ ’   The sales and marketing teams, consisting of about 60 employees,   and their families are taking a separate trip in February. ’ ’   Cohesity is trying to craft a new storage market called   ”hyperconverged secondary storage.” ’ ’   At his former company, Aron& helped pioneer the original   ”hyperconverged” market. It uses a device that stores data but   also includes some computer power and networking and management   software known as virtualization. It allows companies to string   devices together to grow their infrastructures really large,   really fast  —   and do it more affordably than if they were using   traditional storage. ’ ’  ’ ”   Cohesity does a similar thing for the massive amount of data a   company needs to keep that’s less important. It’s focused on       data for   environments   (the computers developers use to write and test apps) data for   analytics apps, and so on. ” ’   Founded in 2013, the company has been selling its product for   about a year. It has grown revenues by over 100%      for the past two quarters. In the third   quarter, revenue jumped more than 150% from the previous quarter.   It also doubled the total number of customers it has. ’ ”   And that’s what brought about the   trip to Maui, the   company tells us. ” ’   Cohesity has raised $70 million over two rounds of venture   investment. ’ ’   And Aron did well for himself when Nutanix finally went public in   September, as he owned more than 8% of the company. ’ ’   All in all, it has been a good year for him. ’