’Since the election, Facebook and Google have been rocked by criticism that they are promoting ”fake news” on their platforms.’ ’Both have pledged to try and stop this type of content from spreading, but it remains a consistent issue. On Sunday,  that the top Google search result for ”Did the Holocaust happen?” returned a list of reasons why it ”didn’’t happen,” published on white nationalist site Stormfront.’ ”But it turns out that Google’s fake news problem is a lot bigger than just Stormfront.” ’For many conspiracy theories, the first search result is a website that purports to confirm the conspiracy is true: from   being a hoax to chemtrails.’ ’It’’s easy to see how this could be a problem. Let’’s take chemtrails as an example. If I were unsure about the theory and asked Google, ”can chemtrails control your mind?” it would return me a definite ”yes” .’ ’Here’’s the headline for that first hit: ”This Is Huge! Gov Bill Proves Chemtrail and Mind Control   Is Real! UN Leaker Makes a Stunning Statement! (  Video).” That is emphatic.’ ’You have to scroll down to the seventh search result to find a more reasoned perspective on chemtrails: .’ ”So what is Google’s take on this?” ’In response to a question about the   result, Google provided the following statement to Business Insider:’ ”Google doesn’t want to censor, which is an understandable position. But the fact that someone might come to Google searching for information on a theory they heard, and be confronted with bogus facts backing it up as the first result, is troubling.” ”What’s worse is that part of the first search result is sometimes pulled as a snippet by Google, which seems to imply that Google is providing you the answer to the question you just asked.” ”Here’s an example:” ’’ ’You’’d be forgiven for thinking Google was telling you that, ”there’’s a fair amount of proof that this New World Order (or at least something like it) really does exist. ”’ ’Here are seven examples we found where the top result for a conspiracy theory was a confirmation:’ ’: ”Top 10 reasons why the holocaust didn’’t happen. ”’ ’: ”  was a hoax. The American government killed its own people. ”’ ’: ”10 Compelling Pieces Of Evidence That Prove The Illuminati Are Real. ”’ ’: ”The United Nations Admits Chemtrails Are Real. ”’ ’: ”Proof that the   global warming theory is false. ”’ ’: ”Dinosaurs Never Existed! ”’ ’ ”’’Yes, Obama’’s Really a Muslim’’”’ ’Note: The article’’s full headline, ”’’Yes, Obama’’s Really a Muslim,’’ Claim Muslims   …     ?” only appears after clicking on the link.’