’  ’ ”   The Federal Reserve announcement Wednesday of a 0. 25 percent   interest rate hike was expected, justified by higher inflation   expectations and an improved economic outlook. What wasn’t   expected: the Fed’s increase in 2017 rate hike expectations to   three   hikes vs. the two   hikes that   were projected in September.  ” ”   This, along with Fed Chair Janet Yellen’s essentially saying at   her press conference that   Donald Trump’s   simulative fiscal plans may be too much too late in the business   cycle  —   and thus, could be inflationary  —   could further fuel the   notion that the Fed is turning hawkish and will be aggressively   raising interest rates in the months to come. ” ”   This view seems to be supported by other members of the Fed’s     committee. And it represents a massive sea change   for a Fed that has, at every turn, used a multitude of excuses to   drag its feet on policy normalization over the last seven years. ” ’  ’ ’   Earlier this month, in a    Chicago Fed President Charles Evans, a   policy dove,   sounded a rare hawkish note by warning that a boost to   infrastructure spending of the type Trump has proposed would be     since the U. S. labor market is ”kind of tight.” Evans   did admit, though, that a plan to renew America’’s roads, highways   and bridges was needed. ’ ’   St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said in a  that while he continues   to recommend a cautious and slow approach to rate increases, a   new political climate and a boost to labor productivity (now   stagnant) as a result of deregulation, infrastructure spending     tax reform could change that view. ’ ”   And back in November, just over a week after the election, Yellen   warned about the fiscal implications of Trump’s proposals,   including the probable swelling of the national debt. ” ’  ’ ’   All of this threatens the stock market in several ways: ’ ’   All of these factors will likely keep the Dow below the 20, 000   threshold or keep any excursion above that level short lived. ’