’  ’ ’   Nike is breaking new ground with the HyperAdapt 1. 0, its first     sneaker for the general public. ’ ”   The sneakers are pretty slick and easy to use for a     product, and they’re full of promise for things   to come, as I said in  of the shoe. ” ’   For most buyers, however, there remains a $720 barrier to   purchase.  ’ ”   Though the shoe is not part of a   collection, it’s   being rolled out slowly, in waves, and only in particular   stores in the US. Interested customers need an appointment to   test out or purchase the shoe, and stock can be hard to come by   depending on how you time your visit. ” ’   Nike says it has seen an ”extremely strong response” from   customers interested in the product. ’ ’  ’ ”   Though it’s not the newest   shoe or a     collaboration, it’s clear who the shoe is targeting with its high   price and limited supply: collectors, according to   NPD sports retail analyst Matt Powell. ” ’   ”I think the shoe will sell very well,” Powell told Business   Insider. ’ ’   Flight Club, one of the biggest shoe resellers both in New York   City and    has noticed that demand for the shoe has been high.  ’ ’   ”Since its release, the Nike HyperAdapt 1. 0s have sold extremely   well for us,” Flight Club spokesman Steven Luna told Business   Insider. ”Being the first of its kind, a   sportswear   shoe, we were certain it would generate much fanfare amongst   sneaker and technology enthusiasts.” ’ ”   According to Flight Club’s systematic pricing, which takes   into account pricing history, what people are saying about   the product on social media, and other recognized sale patterns   in order to tell what a shoe is worth, the sneakers are    to resellers, depending on the   size. ” ’   That pricing is corroborated by a    which show a similar range. ’ ’  ’ ’ another   big name in reselling in New York City, is seeing a high demand   for the shoes as well as ”’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   While it is currently available in New York City at the Nike   Soho store and Nike+ Clubhouse, the shoe’s release will soon be a   bit wider, as customers will be able to try it on in Los Angeles   and Chicago starting December 20. A new gray color in addition to   the current black will also be launching that day. ” ’  ’ ’   The shoe has broader implications for the brand moving forward.   Nike CEO Mark Parker went On  claimed   that   sneakers will be as big as   cars in   the future, with mainstream appeal, application, and pricing. ’