’’ ’WASHINGTON, DC  —   US   Donald Trump on Wednesday met the CEOs of defense contracting giants Boeing and Lockheed Martin, whose programs he has criticized in recent weeks.’ ’Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg  —   whose company is under contract with the US Air Force to develop and manufacture the next presidential aircraft fleet  —   said the price will be less .’ ’”We’’re going to get it done for less than that, and we’’re committed to working together to make sure that happens,” Muilenburg said after meeting ’ ’”I was able to give the   my personal commitment on behalf of the Boeing Company. This is a business that’’s important to us. We work on Air Force One because it’’s important to our country and we’’re going to make sure that he gets the best capability and that it’’s done affordably. ”’ ’Trump described the cost for Boeing’’s Air Force contract to develop the next presidential fleet as ”out of control” in a ’ ’”The $4 billion is a theoretical estimate of the life of the program, which is approximately 30 years,” a Department of Defense spokesman told Business Insider.’ ’Considering the US Air Force contract with Boeing is in very early stages, it is entirely possible for that figure to be adjusted, the spokesman added.’ ’Trump also met with Lockheed Martin CEO Marillyn Hewson on Wednesday.’ ’On  Trump said the cost for Lockheed Martin’’s   stealth   Lightning II jet was also ”out of control. ”’ ’The message sent  at the opening bell to $245. 50, before it rebounded to a little more than $253 a share.’ ’’ ’’ ’The   valued at an acquisition cost of $379 billion, has become one of the most challenged programs in the history of the Department of Defense. It has experienced setbacks that include faulty ejection seats, software delays, and   issues.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”On Monday, the   Joint Program Office released the finalized price for the  for America’s fifth generation stealth fighter. The ninth Low Rate Initial Production ( ) contract for 57   jets was valued at $6. 1 billion.” ”In   the price of the Air Force and Marine Corps’ variants saw a reduction of $5. 9 million and $2. 4 million respectively, the Navy model saw an increase of $3. 2 million.” ’’