’  ’ ’   ”Main Street hasn’’t been taking its fair share.” ’ ”   That’s according to Jack Bogle, the founder of the $3. 5 trillion   fund behemoth Vanguard. ” ”   He’s referring to the cost of investing and the portion of   investment returns that finds its way to brokers, distributors,   and Wall Street at large. ” ”   Bogle has been at the forefront of the effort to change that. He   launched Vanguard in 1975 and created the world’s first index   fund soon after. An index fund tracks the movement of an index,   often the S&P 500, and charges much lower fees than funds   that are actively managed. ” ”   Index investing is set to benefit from a Department of Labor rule   that is meant to protect retirement savers from the conflicts of   interests of financial advisers. Firms like Vanguard are expected   to benefit from the new rule. With   Donald Trump’s   win, however, the future of that rule has come under question. ” ’   Business Insider caught up with Bogle to talk about the future of   the rule, index investing, and the shift in power from Wall   Street to Main Street. ’ ’   What follows is an edited transcript of the conversation. ’ ’Rachael Levy: What do you think will happen to   the fiduciary rule under   Trump? ’ ”Jack Bogle: I’m not sure if I have any great   insights  —   it’s a very mercurial administration. I don’t think   they have any idea what they’re going to try to do. ” ”   It seems to me, pragmatically, it’s very difficult to step back   from a rule that’s so obviously needed. ” ’   Fiduciary means putting the client first, and as I have observed   in the past, the only other rule we have is the client comes   second. ’ ”   It seems equally clear to me that it’s only a matter of time that   the SEC adopts a comparable rule for all accounts. [The fiduciary   rule, set to go into effect in April 2017, covers only retirement   money.] ” ”   The idea that I have a retirement account with a broker and he   takes good care of me, and I have a personal account [and the   broker’s interest comes first] just flies in the face of common   sense. If his customers don’t have retirement plans, he doesn’t   worry about things  —   he sticks with the whole suitability rule.   [Under the current setup, advisers that have not opted to be   fiduciaries only have to provide investments that are suitable,   not necessarily ones in the best interest.] ” ’  ’ ”   All of this makes it seems like it will be hard to walk back this   fiduciary rule into oblivion. Expenses have become a big thing   with funds. Index funds are taking the huge capital inflows. Cost   consciousness, that’s what lies at the heart of all this. Who are   you making money for  —   your firm or your client? Main Street   hasn’t been taking its fair share. ” ’   So the trend is to increase the share of stock market returns   that goes to investors and reduce the share of stock market   returns that goes to brokers and distributors and the whole Wall   Street apparatus. ’ ”   We’re reducing the share that goes to Wall Street and increasing   what goes to Main Street. The great thing about the fiduciary   rule is it moves up the timetable. ” ”   Financial advisers [registered with the government] are already   under fiduciary rule, but brokers are sellers  —   they live by   making trades, they live by commissions. They’ve been operating   under this   suitability rule. You can find a perfectly   suitable investment that’s too expensive. ” ”Levy: What do you think about the criticism   against the rule, that firms won’t be able to service     accounts because of increased compliance costs? ” ”Bogle: I don’t see why that should happen. Firms   seem to me that they are dropping   loads, but they can   get paid on a percentage of assets. There isn’t a lot of cost   saving there. ” ”   These are good people  —   they’re not ill motivated. It’s just how   the system has worked, and the system has worked badly. ” ”   Rules can be changed. I don’t think the Department of Labor and   ultimately the SEC are going to want a rule that deprives smaller   investors of an ability to save money for the future. What we   have to do here is make it so easy to do that you may not even   need an adviser. ” ”Levy: Aren’t you going to be a big beneficiary   of the rule because more assets would go into index funds? The   rule is expected to push money out of actively managed funds into   passively managed ones because the costs are easier to justify as   in the best interest of the retirement saver. ” ”Bogle: I agree with that. And I would welcome,   personally welcome, many more firms to start offering index   funds. When you think of the traditional index funds  —   and I’m   leaving out ETFs  —   I call them TIFs, 80% of those assets are at   Vanguard, 10% are at Fidelity, and 5% are spread among T. Rowe   Price, JPMorgan, Charles Schwab. ” ”Levy: So why don’t more firms want to go into   indexing? ” ’  ’ ”Bogle: All the money goes to the investor rather   than the manager. Thirty of the 50 largest mutual fund firms are   owned by conglomerates, and they’re in the business to make money   for themselves. That’s the American way, and it doesn’t work very   well in finance for the investor. So we’re moving into a sea   change in the way people invest. ” ’Levy: Why are some of these firms against the   fiduciary rule? ’ ’Bogle: They realize that this fiduciary idea,   one of the highly likely [effects] is to have more people going   into indexing without paying the high prices you get with   actively managed funds. ’ ”   If we have a 7% market return, those who index, which is about a   third of the industry, will earn 6. 95%. Those who own active   funds will get 7% and take two points out of it for sales loads,   etc. So they’ll get 5%. ” ’   You put up 100% of the investment, you took 100% of the risk, and   you got 33% of the return over a lifetime. If investors could   just see that emblazoned in the lights of Times Square, this   [shift to indexing] would happen even faster. ’ ’   Anybody is free to compete in the index area. I think we need   more competitors, but where are they? ’ ”   If it’s better for Main Street, it’s worse for Wall Street. ” ’   I think there will be some bumps in the implementation for this   rule. I believe they are rectifiable, and if they are justifiable   they will be fixed. ’ ’Levy: What do you think in the rule needs to be   fixed? ’ ’Bogle: I haven’’t read   —   it’’s 300 pages or something. It’’s very   awkward, cumbersome. A lot of data has to be kept. A lot of info   has to go from the buyer and seller. There’’s this BIC [”best   interest contract”] exemption, so it’’s very bureaucratic. Because   it comes from a bureaucracy, that might be the only way to do it,   but if there are places where the shoe pinches, well then let’’s   fix it. ’ ’   The SEC also has an opportunity here to write a tighter rule. ’ ’Levy: Why do you think there has been this   pushback against the fiduciary rule? ’ ”Bogle: Sure, they’re worried about the   administrative burdens, but second, I think they’re worried that   the fiduciary rule leads to much more indexing, and they don’t   want to do indexing. They want to do it at a very high price,   which just isn’t going to cut it with investors. ” ’   The whole point of the index fund is to give the investor his or   her fair share of what the stock market was generous to give us  —     or mean enough to take away from us. ’ ’  ’ ’Levy: What do you think of the criticism of   indexing, that it leads to too much concentration, overvaluation   of stocks? ’ ”Bogle: There is a lot of concentration.   BlackRock is probably doing 40% of the ETF business. We’re   probably doing 30%. State Street is probably doing 20% or 25%.   And that’s a lot of concentration. ” ’Levy: But what about the concentration in   stocks? ’ ”Bogle: That’s not much of a problem because   these funds don’t trade. The amount that goes into index as a   value of the total stock market is not that big. It’s not as if   the market goes up, the stocks in the fund go up the same way.   The turnover in index funds probably runs about 4%. ” ”   I would also add that when I was beginning in this business in   1951, the  was around 25% a year  —   now it’s about   200% a year. The market is turning over at [a much higher rate]. ” ”   There will always be active managers who are keeping the market   efficient. And if you want to read a really reasoned and     piece, there’s one about  by Cliff Asness. ”