’  ’ ’   German authorities have named Tunisian man Anis Amri as their   prime suspect after a truck drove through a Christmas market on   Monday, killing 12 people, Reuters has reported. ’ ’    ’ ”   In a statement, the German Federal Prosecutor’s Office confirmed   its search for Amri, 24. Authorities have offered a €100, 000   (£84, 000, $104, 000) reward for information leading to his arrest. ” ’   ”Anis AMRI is 178cm tall and weighs about 75kg, has black hair   and brown eyes,” the office said in the statement, according to   Reuters. ”Beware: He could be violent and armed!” ’ ”   Germany’s interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, said earlier on   Wednesday that the German police were collaborating with   authorities in Europe’s Schengen area, where people can move from   country to country without a passport, to find Amri. He did   acknowledge, however, that Amri may not be the driver behind the   attack. ” ”   The search turned to the Tunisian after an identification   document was found under the driver’s seat in the   truck   behind Monday night’s carnage. ” ’  ’ ”   At a press conference in Düsseldorf, North  ’s   interior minister Ralf Jaeger said that Amri, who arrived in   Germany in July 2015, was known to German security agencies.   He had  ” ’   German police, who  ’ ’  ’ ’ Amri was a citizen and did not   issue his passport to German authorities until Wednesday  —   two   days after the attack.  ’ ’ credit for Monday’’s   destruction, supporting what German and US officials had presumed   to be an act of terrorism. The group’’s Amaq news agency called   the truck driver an ISIS soldier who ”executed the operation in   response to calls to target nationals of the coalition   countries.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The truck ran into  in the   Charlottenburg neighbourhood of Berlin at about  on Monday. It ploughed through stalls and   tables and travelled 50 to 80 metres (164 to 262 feet) . ’ ’   A Polish man, named as Lukasz Urban, was found dead in the   passenger side of the truck. De Maizière, the German interior   minister, confirmed that  with a shotgun but said the   weapon had not been recovered. The man was identified by a cousin   who owned the truck company where the man had been a driver. ’ ’   Amid fears that the attack might have been carried out by   migrants, Berliners and refugees gathered to sing ”We Are the   World” in front of the Kaiser Wilhelm church on Wednesday,   according to Reuters. The gathering was a mark of respect for   those who died in the attack. ’ ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed reporting. ’