Tuesday began as most days do when Donald Trump is announcing a cabinet pick. At precisely 6:43 a. m. the president elect sent out a tweet announcing that he would nominate Rex Tillerson, C. E. O. of Exxon Mobil, to be the next secretary of state. And so the media scramble began. The New York Times’s Michael Shear, who had been up since 5 a. m. pounced on the news and wrote a story for the website within an hour of the announcement. Trump’s team, meanwhile, had lined up prominent Republicans to vouch for Tillerson, including names like James Baker and Condoleezza Rice, two former secretaries of state, and Robert Gates, a former defense secretary. Their support became a prominent feature of The Times news story as the day went on. Only one key fact was missing: Baker, Rice and Gates all have financial ties to Exxon, having done work for the oil giant in one capacity or another. Politico had the story on Monday and Talking Points Memo, a popular political site, was up early with that angle. By the afternoon, ABC and CNN had it too, two TV networks that have been criticized for giving Trump the soft touch. The Times didn’t work the potential conflict of interest into its coverage of Tillerson’s nomination until about 6:30 Tuesday night. In the meantime, several readers noticed, including Avis Boutell of Moss Beach, Calif. “When citing endorsements for cabinet nominees, you should note when the source might have a conflict of interest,” Boutell said, pointing to The Times’s earlier coverage. “Give your readers the information they need to make informed judgments about the news you are reporting. ” It wasn’t just The Times that was slow to point out the issue as the orchestrated Trump cabinet rollout churned ahead. Many other big sites were, too. But holding Trump and his transition machinery accountable for their actions is about the most essential element of strong White House coverage. And so is doing it in a speedy manner  —   during the day, when millions are coming to the website and getting news alerts from competing new organizations. The Washington bureau chief, Elisabeth Bumiller, whom I contacted in the early evening Tuesday, said Shear had been up early and moved quickly to get the story onto the website. “The Exxon connections are now in the latest version of the story, which is going up on the web soon,” she said. “We should have mentioned and updated earlier. ” She put that responsibility more on the editors than on Shear, who had been up at 1 a. m. and filing a story the previous night. I will say this: The coverage out of Washington so far has been sharp, relentless and thoroughly reported. This instance is an early reminder of just how tiring that job will be, especially for a   prone to chronic sleight of hand.