’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton has laid the blame on her upset election   loss to Donald Trump on . ’ ’   ’ ’   ”The Democratic Party failed to offer a compelling jobs   message for everybody,” Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo, an early   Clinton supporter, told Business Insider in a recent interview. ’ ’   Clinton ”did win Rhode Island by a couple digits,” she   added. ”But a lot of the areas that went for Trump in Rhode   Island are places where people are feeling like they’’re left   behind in this economy. And I think that as I’’m out and   about talking to Rhode Islanders, there’’s still a high degree of   anxiety about my economic future.” ’ ’   But while some Democrats  and  that prioritizes pocketbook   issues over identity politics, others point to data   suggesting a more complicated understanding of why Clinton failed   to win in the former Rust Belt states. ’ ’’ ’   An examination of the exit polls in  revealed that the economy was by far the most   important issue to votes. But those who reported the economy   as their top issue  —   at least in the abstract    —   believed that Clinton had a stronger message. ’ ’   In Michigan, 52% of voters said the economy was ”most   important issue facing the country,”   Clinton won by 6 points   among people who reported that the economy was the most important   issue, while Obama only won on that issue by   3 points.  ’ ’   In Pennsylvania, Clinton won by 4 points among the 56% of   voters who reported that the economy was most important   issue facing the country. In 2012, Romney won by 5 points   among the 61% of voters concerned most about the economy. ’ ’   The results were even more stark in Wisconsin. While about the   same percentage of voters said the economy was the ”most   important issue facing the country” in 2016 and 2012  —   55% and   56% respectively  —   Clinton won those voters by 11 points, while   Romney won on the issue by a single point in 2012. ’ ’   Matt McDermott, a senior analyst at Whitman Insight Strategies,   acknowledged that while Democrats ”need to do a better   job” of connecting with workers concerned about economic and   personal finance issues, ”it’’s not the reason Hillary   Clinton lost this election.” ’ ’   ”There’’s really no unifying ’’big picture’’ campaign fault that   emerges as the reason why she lost them,” McDermott said,   referring to the three states. ”In part, this is because these   three states were each handled in markedly different ways by the   Clinton campaign, and yet each was lost by an equally small   margin.” ’ ’   He added: ’ ”   But while voters in these states had more faith in Clinton   in the abstract, they were more attracted to individual   aspects of Trump’s economic message, including his vehement   opposition to the   Partnership, his vague promise to   bring back US manufacturing jobs and punish companies that   outsource jobs, and his criticism of immigrants living in the US   illegally. ” ’   Exit polls themselves can be unreliable. Those that   survey early voters are . And for those conducted   on Election Day, the exit polls  skew toward counties and precincts with higher   incomes and education levels. ’ ’   Yet the exit polls also offered other explanations for why voters   supported Trump over Clinton. ’ ’   Trump won overwhelmingly among voters in  and  who craved ”change,” which voters in both   states said was, in the abstract, the most important quality they   sought in a candidate. ’ ’   ”We don’’t live in a monocausal world  —   one answer will not   explain a phenomenon,” said Michael Traugott, a professor and   polling expert at University of Michigan. ”Clinton did not   deliver a sustained economic message, and doing a better job on   that cold have helped here win across the country and in those   three close states. But it’’s also true that if she traveled there   instead of elsewhere, or advertised on TV, or if there had been   no Comey letter, etc. she could have done better as well.” ’ ”   Many top Democrats and some polling analysts long dismissed   Trump’s early campaign boasts that he could carve a new   electorate through the Rust Belt. And in the end, whatever the   cause, it came back to bite them. ” ”   In July, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti rejected the idea that   Trump’s rhetoric and proposals on immigration will help him win   Rust Belt states. ” ’   During a conference call, he told Business Insider: ”Millennials,   younger Americans, even those who are Gen X overwhelmingly   support immigration reform, even in the most working class,   Midwestern, Rust Belt states.” ’