’  ’ ”   Over the holidays it’s best to avoid any arguments, whenever   possible. But if you can’t, you may want to bring some scientific   ammunition for your side of the discussion. ” ’   It turns out that if you want to convince someone that your   explanation for something is the best way to explain it, you   might want to tack on some useless (though accurate) information   from a tangentially related scientific field. ’ ’   It turns out that when you tack on additional information from a   respected field of study, people think that makes an explanation   more credible. ’ ’   That strategy can be devised from the findings of a recent study   conducted by University of Pennsylvania researchers that was   published . ’ ”   And while this is a new finding, it’s just one of several   cognitive biases we have in favor of certain types of   explanations. We think  are better than short ones and we prefer   explanations that  even if these things   don’t actually help us understand a phenomenon. ” ’   As the authors behind this most recent paper note,  that we prefer explanations of psychology when   they contain ”logically irrelevant neuroscience information,”   something known as the ”seductive lure effect.” ’ ’   As former Tech Insider correspondent Drake Baer put it    on the same topic, ”if you’’re trying to   explain why someone did something, you can count on neurobabble   to make you sound more convincing.” All those references to the   brain sound like they can really explain the ways our minds work,   even if neuroscience is . ’ ’  ’ ’   But until now, researchers haven’’t known if this     strategy was limited to using neuroscience to ”explain”   psychology or if it could be used to explain other areas of   science as well. The UPenn team theorized people might in general   prefer arguments that refer to more fundamental science, even if   those references don’’t contribute to the explanation. They call   this type of argument a reductive explanation (reducing one   science to more fundamental parts). ’ ’   To test this theory, the researchers created a hierarchy of   sciences, going from least to most fundamental: social science,   psychology, neuroscience, biology, chemistry, and finally   physics. They recruited undergraduate students and people from   Amazon’’s  work marketplace and presented them with a survey   designed to figure out whether useless reductive information made   them consider explanations ”better.” ’ ’   In each case, the researchers offered four possible explanations   for a scientific concept: a good explanation, a good explanation   that included the additional reductive information, a bad   explanation, and a bad explanation that included reductive   information. ’ ’  ’ ’   As a general rule, their hypothesis panned out  —   people think   explanations that have useless information containing details   about a more ”fundamental” science are usually better. ’ ’   But there are some interesting exceptions and additional   takeaways here. ’ ’   So the next time you read an explanation of something, check to   see if the author is adding useless information to support an   argument, making you more inclined to believe them for all the   wrong reasons. ’ ’   And if you want to convince someone of something, you can see if   adding some background scientific details helps sway the argument   your way. Just try to rely on a science other than   psychology. ’