’  ’ ’   After President Barack Obama said in an interview with former   senior adviser David Axelrod that he thinks he would have won if   he had run this year,   Donald Trump fired   back on Twitter with a clear conviction of his own. ’ ’   ”NO WAY!” Trump tweeted. ’ ’   In Obama’’s interview, which aired on CNN’’s ”” podcast Monday, the president acknowledged he was   acting a bit like a ”Monday morning quarterback,” analyzing the   election after it played out. But Obama said he thought his   message of ”hope and change” still resonates with voters  —   and   that it could have propelled him to victory over Trump. ’ ’   ”I am confident in this vision because I’’m confident that if I  —     if I had run again and articulated it, I think I could’’ve   mobilized a majority of the American people to rally behind it,”   . ”I know that in conversations that I’’ve had with   people around the country, even some people who disagreed with   me, they would say the vision, the direction that you point   toward is the right one.” ’ ’   Trump responded on Twitter later in the day, strongly disagreeing   with the president’’s assessment and declaring the ”world was   gloomy before I won  —   there was no hope.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tPresident Obama said that he thinks he would have won against me. He should say that but I say NO WAY!   jobs leaving, ISIS, OCare, etc. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tThe world was gloomy before I won   there was no hope. Now the market is up nearly 10% and Christmas spending is over a trillion dollars! ’t’t’ ”   After tanking upon Trump’s unexpected victory, the   stock  since his election as the 45th president. ” ’   Trump’’s reference to Christmas spending appears to come from   the  which predicted Holiday sales   to exceed $1 trillion this year, though the survey concluded that   ”overall, gift spending intentions remain similar to 2015.” ’ ’ Obama made it clear he wasn’’t   faulting Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton for   losing, saying he thought ”there was a double standard with her”   that the press and the public had formed over her decades in the   spotlight. ’ ”   Clinton spokesman  to Obama’s claim, agreeing that the   president could have won. He added that she could have, too, if   FBI Director James Comey hadn’t reopened the investigation into   her private email server days before the election, a move   that . ” ’   ”I agree Obama would have beaten Trump,” Fallon wrote. ”I also   think Clinton could have, but for Comey. Despite his win, Trump   is very weak.” ’ ’   Though Trump secured a large win in the Electoral College,    nationwide. ’