’’ ”It’s the talk of Wall Street.” ’The prospect of deregulation following the election of Donald Trump  —   and specifically some kind of softening of the Volcker rule  —   .’ ”Now it seems the Federal Reserve has provided some cover for Trump’s nominees to go soft on the rule.” ’The Fed released a  focused on the Volcker rule, which bans proprietary trading, and its effect on market liquidity.’ ’In short, the staff paper found that the rule had had a negative effect on corporate bond liquidity, or the ease with which buyers can find sellers and vice versa:’ ”It’s important to note that bond market liquidity has been a hot topic on Wall Street for some time, with dealers and investors often complaining that  in the bond market. The Fed, meanwhile,  about the effect of regulation on bond liquidity.” ’According to Isaac Boltansky at the research firm Compass Point, the paper could be used as ”political cover” for Trump and his team as they look to peel away some of the postcrisis financial regulation on Wall Street:’ ’Boltansky added:’ ’Boltansky added that he expects Trump’’s financial regulatory nominees to ”  supervisory compliance with the rule early in their appointments,” and that he believes ”a Volcker rule repeal effort will be part of the legislative conversation in 2017. ”’ ’That said, he said he remains unconvinced that the Volcker rule will be repealed, as the deregulation effort is likely to focus on lightening the load for smaller banks rather than making life easier for large   investment banks.’ ’In addition, several senior bankers have said that the repeal of the Volcker rule would have little effect on how they conduct business.’ ’”There is a lot of noise about the Volcker rule, whether that stays or goes,” said Daniel Pinto, CEO of the corporate and investment bank at JPMorgan. ”We will not do anything differently at all if the rule is eliminated. The way we would do business would not change. We may avoid some of the bureaucracy around all the reporting and checking and all of these things, but the way we do business would not change. ”’ ’Citigroup CFO John Gerspach said in December that ”we don’’t want to do proprietary trading, but I also would love to work with regulators to lessen the burden of proving that we are not engaging in proprietary trading. ”’