LONDON  —   A woman has made medical history by giving birth after having had an ovary removed and its tissue frozen at age 9, before reaching puberty. Moaza   now 24, was born with beta thalassemia, an inherited blood disorder that was treated with chemotherapy and a   transplant when she was a child. Because chemotherapy damages ovaries, her parents had authorized the removal of her right ovary in advance at the University of Leeds. The medical community celebrated the birth of Ms. Matrooshi’s baby boy on Tuesday in London at the Portland Hospital for Women and Children, saying the event could pave the way to restoring fertility to women who suffer cancer and other illnesses at an early age. Until now, many prepubescent girls who have undergone chemotherapy have had to abandon hopes of bearing children as adults. Professor Helen Picton, who leads the division of reproduction at the University of Leeds and who oversaw the preservation of the tissue, said that the outer part of the ovary that contained eggs was cut into pieces. The pieces were then placed in liquid nitrogen, she said in a telephone interview, and gradually cooled to a temperature of minus 320 Fahrenheit (minus 196 degrees Celsius) where they remained for 14 years. The technology was unproved at the time. It would be another three years before the first live birth from preserved adult ovarian tissue, and the prospect of its working in a girl well before puberty was even more uncertain, Professor Picton said. Last year, surgeons in Denmark transplanted five slivers of the thawed ovarian tissue back into Ms. Matrooshi’s body. Four slivers were grafted onto her failed left ovary, which had been damaged by the chemotherapy, and one sliver was grafted onto the side of her uterus. “We waited and the ovarian tissue started to get revascularized,” Professor Picton said. The cryopreservation had protected the tissue’s integrity, she said, “and when the tissue was thawed, it was alive. ” After the procedure, eggs started to grow in the transplanted tissue, and as Ms. Matrooshi’s hormones returned to normal she began ovulating. Until then, she had been in menopause. Doctors stimulated the ovary with   hormone for in vitro fertilization and retrieved eight eggs, ultimately implanting two embryos in her womb earlier this year. “It’s like a miracle,” Ms. Matrooshi told the BBC. Sue Matthews, a gynecologist, treated Ms. Matrooshi at Portland Hospital. “The pregnancy was totally uncomplicated and a healthy boy Rashid was delivered by ” Dr. Matthews said via email. “Mum and baby ecstatic and all well. ” She said she still had one embryo in storage and kept two pieces of tissue “in the freezer so we can repeat the process if we need to. ” More than 60 women have so far given birth after having preserved ovarian tissue reimplanted in their bodies, Professor Picton said. But Ms. Matrooshi is thought to be the first to have had her tissue frozen before she reached puberty. In Europe alone, thousands of girls and women have had their ovarian tissue frozen and stored, Professor Picton said. The latest breakthrough, she said, “significantly increases our understanding of fertility preservation and how freezing ovarian tissue from a little girl can safeguard the future fertility of young girls. ” In another   case, British regulators have cleared the way for doctors to offer a procedure to create a baby from the DNA of two women and one man. The purpose is to overcome flaws in a parent’s mitochondria that can lead to incurable diseases. As the genetic flaw is passed through the mother, DNA from an egg of the mother replaces the DNA in the egg of a healthy donor, yielding an egg with the mother’s DNA and the donor’s mitochondria. That egg is then fertilized. The procedure, performed successfully in New York earlier this year, is controversial because it involves combining genetic material from two different people.