Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. For nearly seven months, the Democratic National Committee ignored an F. B. I. agent’s warnings that its computer systems had been hacked, our reporters found in their meticulous reconstruction of how Russian agents carried out a cyberattack aimed at disrupting America’s presidential election. President Obama defended his administration’s restrained response  —   he pulled President Vladimir V. Putin aside at a conference and told him to “cut it out”  —   and said he is considering retaliatory actions. _____ 2. The Electoral College’s 538 members will cast their votes on Monday.   Donald J. Trump has 306 pledged votes, and needs 270 to become president. One Republican elector has said that he will not vote for Mr. Trump, but a revolt big enough to alter the outcome is deeply unlikely. As a Republican elector from Tennessee put it: “Hell will freeze and we will be skating on the lava before I change. ” _____ 3. How sharp is America’s partisan divide? In North Carolina, outrage and raucous protests broke out on Friday after the   legislature approved a package of sweeping restrictions to curtail the power of the incoming Democratic   Roy Cooper. Mr. Cooper, the state’s longtime attorney general, threatened to sue over the changes. _____ 4. 500, 000 dead. Half of a nation’s population displaced. Civilians, trying to escape the shells that kept falling on a ravaged city, turned to Twitter and WhatsApp to plead: “Please, save us. ” Syria’s nearly    civil war took another brutal swing last week as attempts to evacuate Aleppo, a city that government forces are poised to recapture, repeatedly broke down. Warplanes bombed   areas as trapped residents tried to flee in a chaotic and dangerous relocation effort. “Everybody has been watching helplessly as this conflict unfolds,” an analyst said. “They are watching civilians being massacred mercilessly and all they can do is tweet about it and sign petitions. ” _____ 5. Bayan Mohammad is 10. Her family escaped from Syria and resettled in Canada, where Bayan and her siblings are learning to ice skate,    and navigate the childhood rituals of a new culture. Her parents are watching, with both pride and alarm, as their Syrian children transform into Canadians. Something as simple as a school field trip can become a flash point: For refugees torn away from a world they loved, adapting to a new one without losing their identities is a fraught balancing act. _____ 6. The slow burn of climate change is driving West Africans to cross the Sahara, risking their lives, to find a new place where they can earn a living  —   away from the droughts and heat that have blighted land where crops once grew. Nearly half of Niger’s young children are malnourished. The continent is growing hotter, wreaking havoc on food supplies, but those who try to leave have nowhere to go. As wary nations close their borders to migrants, policy makers see little chance that refugee protections will be expanded to cover the climate’s casualties. _____ 7. Dr. Henry J. Heimlich, the inventor of an antichoking technique that has saved an estimated 100, 000 lives, died Saturday at age 96, after a heart attack. Just seven months ago, Dr. Heimlich used his maneuver to save an    woman at the senior residence in Cincinnati where he lived. An avid popularizer, he became a celebrity through his medical advocacy. “I can do more toward saving lives in three minutes on television,” he once said, “than I could do all my life in the operating room. ” _____ 8. Looking for a book to curl up with? Our critics, who reviewed nearly 250 books this year, winnowed the list down to their favorites. The stories they recommend include tales of a   whaling expedition, a literal Underground Railroad, the Dublin Murder Squad’s crime investigations and the secrets of a small mining town. If you’re in the mood for nonfiction, follow along as authors explore America’s   housing crisis, hillbilly culture, a childhood in Syria, Queen Victoria’s reign and a terminally ill neurosurgeon’s final months. _____ 9. “If Naivon is smart, why isn’t he in college?” Hearing those words, from an elementary school girl he was tutoring, jolted Naivon Lake Jr. 20, into reconsidering his aimless adulthood. With financial support from the Community Service Society, one of several organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, he enrolled in community college and is majoring in commercial photography. Now in its 105th year, the fund provides direct assistance to struggling residents in New York and beyond. Their stories illustrate how items as simple as a recliner, a graduation dress and a MetroCard can have   effects. _____ 10. Do you have the next big story? If you think you have a credible tip, our newsroom wants to hear from you. Click here for secure, encrypted ways to share messages and materials with our journalists. _____ Have a great week. Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p. m. Eastern. Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s Evening Briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.