Stuffed inside cookie tins and between the pages of books in Diane Fields’s kitchen are multitudes of recipes. Ms. Fields has clipped them from newspapers and kept them for years, intent on preparing and sampling them all. But for the past year, a cancer diagnosis has cast those aspirations in doubt. “I won’t have the chance to cook my recipes,” said Ms. Fields, 69, who received the diagnosis in late 2015. “These are the things that come to mind when you go through something like this. ” The first sign that something was wrong came in November last year with painful stomach cramps. Doctors told Ms. Fields that she had pancreatic cancer, the same cancer that claimed the lives of one of her grandmothers in 2004 and a brother in 2010. Ms. Fields was already saddled with health problems, including heart disease, osteoporosis and a torn meniscus that forced her to retire in 2009 as a senior case manager at a maternity shelter. “I didn’t cry,” Ms. Fields recalled. “My first inclination was what are we going to do about it? What kind of options do I have?” Last December, she began chemotherapy and radiation treatment at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan to try to shrink her tumors. Ms. Fields is still undergoing chemotherapy. “With chemo, if I’m not sick, I’m still tired,” she said. Even simple tasks, like a walk to the corner store, have left Ms. Fields suddenly and drastically immobilized. She feels discouraged about leaving her home. Her only child, Kimberly Fields, 46, is constantly by her mother’s side. She had moved into her mother’s apartment in the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn a couple of years earlier when she was between jobs in retail. When her mother learned she had cancer, Kimberly Fields postponed her job search. “Since I was here anyway, I said, ‘Let me take care of my mother,’” she said. “I don’t mind certain things. I’m not saying it’s not stressful, but it’s good stress. It’s my mother. ” In addition to the crippling fatigue, the cancer has taken a psychological toll. Ms. Fields has found herself snapping at strangers for minor offenses and grousing about her daughter’s overprotective nature. Her daughter hesitates to allow her to venture out on her own, leaving Ms. Fields frustrated by her confinement. “Thank God she’s here. She helps me,” Diane Fields said. “But you want to be able to do stuff on your own. ” In May, Ms. Fields was dealt another setback. She was moved to a different insurance plan and forced to reapply for Medicaid. She then learned that the $1, 027 in Social Security benefits she receives each month disqualified her from regular Medicaid, and that she was responsible for paying $184 a month to offset the surplus income. This new financial demand, in addition to her medication costs, led to dwindling savings and put her rent into arrears. At that time, Ms. Fields sought the help of Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. It used $500 in Neediest funds to cover the missing portion of her rent. In November, Ms. Fields was granted a fair hearing from the state to object to her Medicaid changes. She succeeded, was reimbursed for past surplus payments and no longer has to pay the additional $184 every month. With that resolved, battling her cancer remains at the forefront. The mother and daughter try to stay strong, often to lift each other’s spirits. Ms. Fields said her first good cry had happened in private, and many months after the diagnosis. “I don’t know what it was that made me start crying,” she said. “I was just sitting here thinking, and I just started crying, to let it out. ” The Fieldses greet each day with faith, optimism and gratitude. Diane Fields praises her doctors and fellow patients at Sloan Kettering for their boundless optimism. “I’m not going to say you’re not frightened,” Ms. Fields said. “But you can’t just lie down and say this is it. ” When she regains her strength, the recipes she has clipped will be waiting for her. So will a slow cooker, still in its packaging and sitting on a kitchen shelf. And she is eager to pull out her bread maker for a pizza dough recipe she has wanted to prepare. “I haven’t been able to do all that yet, but once the cancer’s gone, I will,” Ms. Fields said.