Can’t take time off for a weeklong vacation? Getting away for a weekend is still a way to recharge your batteries, said Shawna Huffman Owen, the president of Huffman Travel, a travel consultancy based in Chicago. “If you plan well,” she said, “a quick trip can be a great break and even feel longer than it is. ” As a frequent weekend vacationer, she has plenty of advice on getting the most out of a little time off. Here, her top tips: KNOW YOUR GOAL Do you want to completely disconnect and relax, be active, hit popular nightclubs and restaurants or bond with your family? “Your weekend trip will be a waste if it doesn’t accomplish what you’re looking to do,” Ms. Huffman Owen said. Travelers interested in cultural attractions, for example, might not appreciate a stay in a countryside retreat with few sights nearby, while those who like to be pampered wouldn’t enjoy a property without a spa or one where the spa is small and has a limited menu of services. Plan a trip according to what interests you most. PICK AN    DESTINATION Enjoying your destination  —   not spending all of your time traveling to and from it  —   is crucial when you have limited time off. Consider places that are within a   drive or a nonstop flight from home. For travelers who live on the East Coast or in the Midwest of the United States, Ms. Huffman Owen’s favorite spots for weekend trips include South Beach, Charleston, Quebec City, Montreal, Newport and the New England region West Coast and Southwest residents could consider Cabo San Lucas or San Miguel de Allende in Mexico and Big Sur, Vancouver, Seattle, Sonoma and Napa. FULFILL A DREAM The exception to choosing an easily accessible destination, Ms. Huffman Owen said, is using your weekend getaway to fulfill a travel fantasy such as flying to Paris to have dinner in that    restaurant you have always wanted to dine at, going to London to catch a tennis match at Wimbledon or heading to Morocco for a   trek in the Sahara, a trip that the adventure travel company Epic Tomato can arrange. “Trips like these may require more effort and a bigger budget,” she said, “but they will be ones that you will never forget and can be rejuvenating in their own way. ” DO YOUR HOMEWORK Planning is crucial to making the most of your weekend away and avoiding disappointment. If you’re heading to a spa, for example, be sure to book treatments and fitness classes as far in advance as possible because many spas can be fully booked on weekends, and exercise classes, such as spinning, may have a limit on the number of participants. It’s also a good idea to book tables at nightclubs and restaurants, and reserve theater tickets and poolside and beachside cabanas at resorts.