Maureen Dowd: You have gorgeous stuff in your house in White Plains, but you don’t entertain. André Leon Talley: Confirm. You don’t like it when Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski dress like twins. Confirm. You once advised me to get shoes the color of the skin of a Vidalia onion. Confirm. You worked for Andy Warhol at Interview magazine. He was the weirdest person you ever met. Deny. He was normal to me. Anna Wintour has never worn a ponytail. Confirm. You’ve never been romantically involved with a designer. Oh, confirm. You own a thousand   caftans. Deny. I have more than 10 and less than 50. Listen, I’m not Marie Antoinette. You don’t believe couples should sleep in the same bed. Confirm. They really should be in different apartments in the same city. If you could have any friend in the world, you’d pick Judge Judy. Confirm. You watch seven hours a day of MSNBC. Confirm. You touched Vivien Leigh’s green velvet dress from “Gone With the Wind. ” And did I! Confirm. Was Queen Elizabeth hot? Confirm. She was very stylish in the ’60s. She had a fabulous figure, fabulous waist and big bosoms, and she looked good in her clothes. Was Princess Margaret sexy? Deny. Except the actress who plays her in “The Crown,” when she’s galloping on her horse to Peter Townsend with her trench coat flying behind. Except for kilts, skirts for men, like Marc Jacobs made, are never coming back. Confirm. Your biggest regret is not writing the definitive biography about Yves Saint Laurent. Confirm. You’ve never been in love with a man, only a woman. Confirm. Your ideal of a hot guy is Bruce Springsteen. Deny. It’s Will Smith. When you ran the Russian magazine Numéro Russia, you thought you could change Russian politics. Deny. Michelle Obama is the best dressed first lady of all time. Confirm. Anna Wintour will love the fashion of the Trump presidency. Deny. You thought it was a brilliant move when Trump   the back of his tie to keep it in place. Confirm. You can also have an instant   by   your temples. Amal Clooney snubbed you at the Met Gala. Confirm. Trump is going to bring back boxy suits and long ties. Deny. Ivanka is a fashion icon. Deny. Oscar de la Renta designed your bed. Confirm. You brushed Valentino’s pug’s teeth. That is so not true! Deny. You were blurred out of the Kim and Kanye wedding episode on the Kardashian show. Confirm. It was an oversight. They did put me back in. You have Truman Capote’s sofa in your house that you bought at an auction. Confirm. It’s O. K. to wear a bandeau maillot to the office. Confirm. You crave a pair of sable boxer shorts to go with your   sable coat. Confirm. Sable underwear would go great with my sable coat by Karl Lagerfeld for Fendi and would express a kind of sexuality that I would aspire to that does not exist.