The wire fox terriers had already tracked through her blood when the police arrived at Susan Berman’s bungalow in Los Angeles on Christmas Eve 16 years ago to find her dead, shot in the back of the head,  . Her friends would tell investigators that Ms. Berman, a     screenwriter and journalist, would never have let her three dogs run free, for fear they would be hit by a car speeding down narrow Benedict Canyon. Nor would she have opened the door to a stranger, but the police found the back door open and the front unlocked. Suspicion passed from her landlady, with whom she had been feuding, to her manager and even to geriatric gangsters from Las Vegas who might have known her mobster father back in the days of Bugsy Siegel. But eventually investigators focused on a wealthy man from a powerful New York real estate family whom she had met in college during the 1960s and for the rest of her life regarded as a brother and a kindred spirit. Robert A. Durst. She spoke adoringly of “Bobby” and set up some girlfriends on blind dates with Mr. Durst, but to a few, she shared dark misgivings. After all these years, Mr. Durst now sits in Los Angeles County Jail awaiting trial for her murder. Prosecutors say Mr. Durst killed Ms. Berman to prevent her from revealing any of his secrets surrounding the 1982 disappearance of his first wife, a case that had been reopened just before Ms. Berman’s death in 2000. Mr. Durst and his lawyers insist that he did not kill Ms. Berman and does not know who did. He has pleaded not guilty. While Mr. Durst’s story has become familiar over time, Ms. Berman, who was 55 when she died, remains a largely unknown figure. Her friends describe her as a smart, funny and skilled storyteller, who neither smoked nor drank. She enjoyed being the center of attention but was racked by depression and severe fears of heights and bridge crossings. “She was an ambitious, very talented, intelligent but extremely damaged person,” said Julie Smith, a mystery writer based in New Orleans and the executor of Ms. Berman’s meager estate. “She had a fascinating background. You never knew what she would say or do. ” All the while, Ms. Berman talked at the pace of an Olympic speedskater. Her trademark look  —   thick dark hair down to her shoulders and bangs across her forehead that often obscured her eyes  —   never varied. On good days, she could sit in front of her computer and write for eight or 10 hours at a clip, but on other days, she could not bear getting out of bed. Her writing  —   whether it was a 1975 article for City magazine titled “In San Francisco, City of Sin, Why Can’t I Get Laid?” or her 1981 memoir, “Easy Street,” of growing up the daughter of a Jewish mobster in Las Vegas  —   brought her some measure of fame. But she spent her final years in poverty, desperate to revive her screenwriting career and fending off eviction from her Benedict Canyon home. “I see now that Susan’s best stories were always those about Susan,” said Carol Pogash, a reporter who worked with Ms. Berman at The San Francisco Examiner in the 1970s. “Her life was the best drama she ever told. ” When Mr. Durst first came under suspicion, many of her friends could not believe it. They repeated, like a mantra, “Suzie loved Bobby Bobby loved Suzie. ” Whatever secrets Ms. Berman knew about Mr. Durst, she had a fierce,   sense of loyalty to her friends and to Mr. Durst in particular. “She felt very close to him,” Ms. Smith said. “There have been times I thought all kinds of things about Bob. But I never thought she would’ve ratted him out for any reason. ” Ms. Berman grew up in the 1950s in Las Vegas, where her father, David Berman, treated her like a princess. Elvis and Liberace sang at her birthday parties. She was blissfully unaware until much later of her father’s ties to the mob at the Flamingo and Riviera hotels. Her father died in 1957 on an operating table when she was 12. Her mother, Gladys, was institutionalized and a year later killed herself. Ms. Berman met Mr. Durst in the 1960s while attending the University of California, Los Angeles, where he was a graduate student. There was an instant and powerful bond, friends say. He was the son of a powerful New York developer, and his mother, he told her, had also died by suicide, although members of the Durst family say it was an accident. Mr. Durst described Ms. Berman as his best friend for much of his life during a 2015 interrogation by John Lewin, a deputy district attorney in Los Angeles who is leading the prosecution of Mr. Durst. After attending journalism school at the University of California, Berkeley, Ms. Berman worked for The Examiner, mostly for the style section. But she had higher aspirations. In 1977, she moved to New York, where her articles appeared frequently in New York magazine. It was a heady time, with Ms. Berman, Mr. Durst and their friends frequently making the rounds at glamorous nightclubs like Xenon or Studio 54, where Mr. Durst, back in New York and working for his father, knew one of the owners, Steve Rubell. To celebrate the publication of her memoir, Ms. Berman held a spectacular party on Nov. 11, 1981, at Sammy’s Roumanian Steakhouse, a Lower East Side institution known for its frozen vodka and   Jewish cooking. She wore a   dress and lined the walls with oversize photos of her father and mother. “She was jubilant,” recalled Stephen M. Silverman, a friend and then neighbor of Ms. Berman’s. Less than three months later, in February 1982, Ms. Berman was at Mr. Durst’s side after he reported to the police that his first wife, Kathleen Durst, was missing. Kathie, as she was known, was only months away from graduating from medical school. Ms. Durst had wanted a divorce. The couple’s marriage had descended into a hell of “fighting, slapping, pushing,” as Mr. Durst told the producers of “The Jinx: The Life and Deaths of Robert Durst,” a   HBO documentary broadcast in 2015. Mr. Durst told the police at the time that he had put Kathie on a train in Westchester County, where the couple owned a cottage, bound for their Manhattan apartment because she had class the next day. With the case generating tabloid headlines, Ms. Berman managed his contacts with reporters and fended off bothersome inquiries. Ms. Berman had told many of her friends that she was distressed about what “poor Bobby” was going through. “She couldn’t believe that her friend from U. C. L. A. was capable of killing anybody,” said Hillary Johnson, a friend of Ms. Berman’s. But there were hints that something else might be going on. “In those days, she’d talk about her friend Bob and how his wife had disappeared and I must never write about it,” said Ms. Smith, the mystery writer. “I always took that as a warning. ” The day after Ms. Durst disappeared, someone identifying herself as Kathie Durst called Albert Kuperman, the dean of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, to say she was not feeling well and would not be able to attend class. Investigators in New York and California have long suspected that the call was made not by Ms. Durst but by Ms. Berman. The circumstances of that call are of keen interest to the prosecutor in the Berman murder case. During his 2015 interrogation of Mr. Durst, Mr. Lewin, the prosecutor, noted the oddity of the call’s going to Mr. Kuperman, who barely knew Ms. Durst, instead of to her supervisor at the pediatric clinic where she was working. “You didn’t have the name of the doctor and the place she was going to be doing it,” Mr. Lewin asked. “Right. ” Mr. Durst did not respond. Miriam Barnes, a friend of Ms. Berman’s who lived next door on Beekman Place in Manhattan, has her own vivid memory of Ms. Berman at the time Ms. Durst vanished. Unlike many of Ms. Berman’s other friends, she has not been interviewed by investigators from New York or Los Angeles. One afternoon  —   she cannot recall the exact date after nearly 35 years  —   Ms. Berman returned to her apartment building after work and immediately sought her out, Ms. Barnes said. Ms. Berman was both “very nervous and sad. ” They sat face to face in chairs in the hallway of Ms. Berman’s apartment as Ms. Berman leaned forward. “She said, ‘Bobby asked me to do something, and I did it,’” Ms. Barnes said. “‘If anything happens to me, just remember, Bobby did it. ’” Ms. Berman never explained her cryptic comment, Ms. Barnes said, but it stuck with her nonetheless. In any event, a few years after Ms. Durst vanished, Ms. Berman returned to Los Angeles to focus on screenwriting. In 1984, Ms. Berman married a man named Mister Margulies, whom she had met in line at the Writers Guild while they each registered a screenplay. The wedding was a lavish production at the Hotel   an old Hollywood hotel that had once housed Jimmy Stewart, Lauren Bacall and Audrey Hepburn. Mr. Durst walked her down the aisle. The film producer Robert Evans offered a toast: “I don’t know Mister, but I can tell him Susan is the most seductive woman I ever met. ” The marriage did not work out, and Mr. Margulies was soon dead of a drug overdose. Ms. Berman worked relentlessly on a series of book and film projects, but by the late 1990s she was in desperate financial shape, unable to pay rent or even the mechanic who had fixed her Isuzu. She scrambled to reach Mr. Durst to ask for money, as she had in the past. He eventually sent her two checks, for $25, 000 each. In a note to “Dearest Bobby” dated Nov. 5, 2000, Ms. Berman seemed to fear that the gift had ruptured their friendship: “I don’t want my last request to be the last time we communicate  —   our friendship means so much to me, Bobby. I hope you forgive me for not keeping pace with your more successful life. ” At about the same time, Mr. Durst learned that he was the focus of a new investigation into the disappearance of Ms. Durst by Jeanine Pirro, the district attorney of Westchester County. A panicky Mr. Durst fled New York, renting apartments in Galveston, Tex. and New Orleans while posing as a mute woman. In “The Jinx,” Mr. Durst described how Ms. Berman had told him that the police wanted to talk to her. Mr. Durst repeated that claim during his 2015 interrogation by Mr. Lewin. “Susan told me that she had been contacted by Los Angeles and New York detectives,” Mr. Durst said, according to a transcript. “And, uhm, they want to come talk to me. ” But then Mr. Lewin shocked him. “I’m going to tell you something,” Mr. Lewin said. “That was not true. They had not contacted her. ” Mr. Lewin added: “I think that Susan was trying to subtly squeeze you for money. Uhm, by the way, for, for what’s it’s worth, Bob, ’cause I know you care about her, I don’t think Susan ever would have said anything. ” According to court records in the case, Mr. Durst flew to California on Dec. 19, 2000, from New York. Three days later, Ms. Berman drove to dinner at the Broadway Deli in Santa Monica and a movie with Richard B. Markey, a comedy producer and writer who was the last person known to have seen her alive. Ms. Berman dropped off Mr. Markey at his house at 10:30 p. m. on Dec. 22, 2000, and drove home. Hours later, Ms. Berman was dead.