The auto parts maker Takata is nearing a sweeping settlement with federal prosecutors over airbags that can violently explode, according to two people briefed on the discussions. The devices have been linked to many deaths and injuries and prompted the largest recall in automotive history. A deal could come as early as the next few weeks, and Takata is expected to pay a penalty of up to $1 billion, the people briefed on the discussions said. One point that remains unresolved is whether there will be any guilty plea to criminal misconduct, either by the company or one of its subsidiaries. Such a plea would be an escalation of punishments against auto companies for defective products. In settlements with General Motors and Toyota Motor, for example, the companies agreed to pay large fines over defects, but did not plead guilty. Any broad agreement between Takata and the Justice Department would end one chapter in a   saga that has enraged drivers, disrupted the auto industry and brought the company to the brink of bankruptcy. While Takata still faces   legal battles, including a   lawsuit, it would no longer be under the cloud of a government investigation. Takata’s exploding airbags have been linked to at least 11 deaths and more than 180 injuries in the United States. Nineteen automakers are recalling 42 million vehicles to replace the airbags’ metal inflaters. The inflaters can overpressurize and rupture, shooting metal shards into a car’s cabin. The Justice Department has been examining whether the company made misleading statements and hid information about the defective airbags from clients. Takata has already acknowledged that it manipulated airbag test results, but has said that its conduct was unrelated to the airbag ruptures. Former Takata engineers have said that cost considerations drove the company to switch to a less expensive yet problematic propellant in its inflaters in the early 2000s. The propellant, ammonium nitrate, can break down over time, making it unstable and prone to unexpected explosions when exposed to moisture. Autoliv, a rival airbag supplier, tested the compound in the 1990s and found it too dangerous to use as an airbag propellant, former engineers at the company have said. But Takata pushed ahead, manipulating test results it submitted to its biggest client, Honda. Even after a driver of a Honda Accord was injured in a 2004 airbag rupture in Alabama, neither Takata nor Honda sought the involvement of federal regulators, deeming the episode an anomaly. Mark Abueg, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to comment. A Takata spokesman in Tokyo said he could not comment. The news about Takata nearing a settlement with the government was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. A settlement with Takata that carried a financial penalty would be the latest in a string of fines levied against the auto industry by the federal government over faulty products. Toyota was fined $1. 2 billion in 2014 amid accusations it concealed safety defects that could cause its cars to accelerate suddenly. But Toyota did not plead guilty, and the Justice Department agreed to defer prosecution of a wire fraud count for three years, provided that the automaker paid the penalty and submitted to a continuing independent review of its safety processes. Similarly, General Motors agreed in 2015 to pay a $900 million penalty for its   failure to disclose a deadly ignition switch defect. The Justice Department also agreed under that settlement to defer prosecution for three years. But the extent of Takata’s lapses may embolden prosecutors. Internal emails obtained by The New York Times suggested brazen and widespread tampering with data as reflected in brash exchanges among Takata employees in Japan and the United States. “Happy Manipulating! !!” a Takata airbag engineer, Bob Schubert, wrote in an email dated July 6, 2006, in a reference to airbag test results. In 2010, as Takata and Honda assured regulators that the airbag explosions were a result of isolated manufacturing issues, the companies also enlisted the help of researchers at Pennsylvania State University to determine whether ammonium nitrate might have been central to the problem. When the conclusion of the researchers’ 2012 study cast doubt on whether ammonium nitrate should be used in the inflaters, Takata dismissed the findings and waited more than two years before sharing them with regulators. As part of a 2015 consent order, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration hit Takata with a $70 million penalty for its failure to promptly disclose the defect. The agency warned at the time that the penalty could increase by $130 million if Takata did not live up to the consent order’s terms, a condition that would make it a record civil punishment for the auto industry. Takata executives have also been called before congressional committees, alongside automakers, their biggest clients. A crucial question for Takata is what portion of the recall costs will ultimately be paid by its automaker customers, rather than by the company itself. Negotiations involving Takata, carmakers, potential investors and the supplier’s Japanese lenders are continuing. If Takata were to bear the full cost of the recall, the company would almost certainly face bankruptcy, depriving carmakers of a supplier that remains crucial to their global supply chains. Takata is one of just three major airbag manufacturers in the world and controls 25 to 30 percent of the market, according to industry researchers. The greater the share of recall costs that carmakers absorb, the more attractive Takata would be to potential investors. The airbag scandal and mounting recalls have already put the company under severe financial strain. It lost nearly $130 million last year, and has been scrambling for a   cash infusion since then. Takata and its bankers at Lazard are still working on a financial turnaround plan. Under one possible scenario, the company would secure an investment from an outside group while filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, according to one of the people briefed on discussions with the government. The company hopes to announce the results of its investment process by February, though that timetable is fluid. Any financial rescue would probably lessen the influence of the Takada family, which founded the company in the 1930s and remains its largest shareholder. In June, the company’s chief executive, Shigehisa Takada, said he would step down. He is, however, still listed as chairman and chief executive, and a successor has yet to be named. Mr. Takada has largely stayed in the background as the company’s woes unfolded, leaving subordinates to face regulators, politicians and the media. He has not made a public appearance in the United States since the scandal began. At the company’s annual meeting last year, he apologized to victims but defended Takata’s airbags as fundamentally safe.