LONDON  —   The transportation minister of Belgium resigned on Friday, after the publication of leaked reports from the European Commission warning of security deficiencies at Brussels Airport, the site of two deadly terrorist bombings on March 22. The minister, Jacqueline Galant, is the   Belgian official to lose her job as a result of the attacks. The country’s interior and justice ministers offered their resignations shortly after the assaults, acknowledging lapses in intelligence sharing and law enforcement, but Prime Minister Charles Michel asked them to stay. On Friday, Mr. Michel said that King Philippe had accepted Ms. Galant’s resignation. He said she had “undertaken several bold reforms,” and thanked her for her service. Ms. Galant came under heavy criticism this week, with opposition lawmakers demanding that she go. The tipping point may have come Thursday, when Laurent Ledoux, president of the Federal Public Service for Mobility and Transport, resigned, saying he could no longer work for her. On Thursday night, Mr. Ledoux, a civil servant, supplied documents to the state broadcaster, RTBF, which appeared to show that Ms. Galant had been notified of security problems at Brussels Airport, which was targeted along with the Maelbeek subway station, in assaults that left 32 people dead, along with three attackers. He openly accused Mr. Michel and Ms. Galant of misleading the public by not acknowledging that they knew about the reports. The documents Mr. Ledoux disclosed showed that in February, he asked for more employees and resources to tighten checks at Belgian airports. He requested a share of the 400 million euros, or about $450 million, that the Belgian government pledged after the terrorist attacks in and around Paris on Nov. 13, which killed 130 people. Mr. Ledoux said Ms. Galant “systematically” disregarded his request. He also criticized the Belgocontrol, the air traffic control agency, whose staff members went on strike shortly after the airport reopened to protest plans to raise the age at which employees may retire with pensions. Ms. Galant, in tendering her resignation, described Mr. Ledoux as being disgruntled and having a political agenda. “For three years, he has waged a media campaign to cast discredit on my entire administration,” she said. “He is profiting by taking advantage of the worrying times to make accusations and confuse the facts. ” The dispute holds partisan dimensions. On Wednesday, two opposition parties released an internal European Union report from last April citing security deficiencies at the airport. That report, however, focused on security screening. The recent attacks took place in the departure hall, which was not covered in the report. Ms. Galant denied neglecting airport security. “In fact, if there was ever an area to which I always paid attention, it was this one,” she said Friday. Also on Friday, the British authorities announced the arrests of five people from Birmingham, England, on   charges. Four of them  —   three men, ages 26, 40 and 59, and a woman, 29  —   were arrested Thursday night in Birmingham, and a    man was arrested early Friday at Gatwick Airport, south of London, said the West Midlands Police. The police agency’s counterterrorism unit  —   working with MI5, Britain’s domestic intelligence agency, and Belgian and French authorities  —   acted “to address any associated threat to the U. K. following the attacks in Europe,” the West Midlands Police said.