Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont is seeking to bar allies of Hillary Clinton from leading the powerful rules and platform committees of the Democratic National Convention in July, escalating his battle with party leaders. In a letter sent on Friday to party officials, lawyers for Mr. Sanders said that the appointments of Barney Frank, the former Massachusetts congressman, and Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut violated party rules. Mr. Frank is to   the rules committee, and Mr. Malloy the platform committee. In the letter, Mr. Sanders’s lawyer Brad Deutsch said that both men have been “harsh, vocal critics of Senator Sanders, and equally active supporters of his challenger, Hillary Clinton. ” Mr. Frank has called Mr. Sanders “outrageously McCarthyite” for his suggesting that Mrs. Clinton would be influenced by her speaking fees from Wall Street Mr. Malloy has led efforts among Clinton allies to attack Mr. Sanders’s record on gun control. Under convention rules, Mr. Deutsch said in the letter, their open criticism of Mr. Sanders made them unfit to   the committees. “Their criticisms of Senator Sanders have gone beyond dispassionate ideological disagreement and have exposed a deeper professional, political and personal hostility toward the senator and his campaign,” Mr. Deutsch wrote. “The chairs therefore cannot be relied upon to perform their convention duties fairly and capably while laboring under such deeply held bias. ” Democratic officials replied on Saturday morning with a letter from Jim Roosevelt, a retired health insurance executive, and Lorraine C. Miller, who head the party’s permanent rules and bylaws committee. They said the appointments did not violate party rules, and that Mr. Sanders had not demonstrated otherwise. The question of Mr. Frank’s and Mr. Malloy’s qualifications had been settled in January, when they were first appointed, Ms. Miller and Mr. Roosevelt wrote, and there is no mechanism to revisit it. “We are compelled to dismiss it,” they said. Mr. Sanders’s efforts to disqualify the Clinton backers mark his latest bid to ensure that his ideas and supporters are well represented at the convention in July. And his battles with Clinton supporters have become increasingly bitter. This month, Sanders supporters erupted in protest at a state party meeting in Nevada, with some threatening the party’s chairwoman there in a dispute over the selection of convention delegates. Mr. Sanders is preparing a major push to influence the party’s formal platform, and Mr. Frank and Mr. Malloy will each wield substantial power over that process. Mr. Deutsch’s letter indicates that if necessary, Mr. Sanders will take his battle over the credentials of Mr. Frank and Mr. Malloy to the convention in Philadelphia. Both men were chosen in January by Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, who has clashed with Mr. Sanders over her scheduling of primary debates and, more recently, his supporters’ attacks on other Democratic leaders.