WASHINGTON  —   As news outlets round the world continued to publish revelations from the Panama Papers, the nonprofit organization that coordinated the project was preparing to move out of its offices here in an effort to cut costs. The organization, called the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, was already forced to part with three contract journalists who had helped its small staff shepherd the project. And three other budgeted positions, it was told, would have to be left unfilled for now. Its brief shining moment in the journalistic spotlight was being complicated by much more familiar issues. Like so many of its peers in nonprofit journalism, the consortium is subject to the financial headwinds buffeting the industry as a whole. In this case, it is feeling ripple effects from the financial struggles of its parent organization, the Center for Public Integrity, the venerable nonprofit investigative news organization that controls the consortium’s budget. The financial pinch has created dual realities for the consortium, damping morale and escalating   tensions with its parent, even as the impact of the Panama Papers has dramatically increased its global profile. The consortium’s problems also represent a potential setback in the search for new ways to finance and pursue journalism at a time when traditional news organizations, and even new digital operations, are seeking workable business models. In the nonprofit segment of the industry, which has inspired hope as a way forward, it has exposed a particularly hard truth: Financing even the most successful investigative reporting unit is hard and often inconsistent. “You always want more staff and more funding,” the consortium’s director, Gerard Ryle, said. “But I have to accept the situation as it is. My job is to get on with things no matter what. ” Financial uneasiness is nothing new for the Center for Public Integrity, which ran yearly operating deficits from 2005 to 2007, and again in 2011. Peter Bale, who took over the organization last year after a stint at CNN International, said the organization was still trying to recover from that legacy  —   including a $2. 1 million deficit in unrestricted net assets that he said he had inherited from his predecessor, whose editorial gambles have drawn criticism. That deficit, which the board has said cannot grow, has forced him to make cuts, Mr. Bale said, while honoring funding agreements and the center’s editorial imperatives. But Bill Buzenberg, who led the center from 2007 to 2015, disputed that assessment, saying that a deficit in general support is not unusual for nonprofits. It becomes a problem, he said, when annual   from specific programs and objectives declines. “I kept telling them, you have to raise money like crazy this year for next,” Mr. Buzenberg said. “I’m not sure that happened. ” The center is expected to raise $9. 3 million this year, down from around $11 million last year, Mr. Bale said, noting that grants to the center are often paid out over multiple years. He has had to consider cuts anywhere he can find them, not just at the consortium. The Center for Public Integrity laid off two prizewinning senior investigative reporters of its own in May and is delaying hiring for open positions. The financial woes have strained the relationship between two organizations that David E. Kaplan, who ran the consortium from 2008 to 2011, says have always been awkward partners. The consortium was founded in 1997 as a branch of the center to focus on international investigations, but it quickly developed its own ethos. “These are two different organizations in culture, structure and methodology,” said Mr. Kaplan, who resigned in protest in 2011 during a period of particular tension between the groups. The differences have only intensified as the consortium has grown under Mr. Ryle, an   investigative journalist who worked in Australia before taking the position. Its budget has roughly tripled, to almost $2 million this year, and its staff has grown threefold, to about a dozen, including contractors, after the cuts. It has also deliberately moved away from the journalistic model of its parent organization, in search of a more effective way to investigate and distribute stories across borders at a relatively low cost. The model, in which the consortium coordinates teams of reporters around the world to work collaboratively on a single big source base, has been increasingly successful, aiding in investigations of international interest, like “Lux Leaks,” which in 2014 exposed how Luxembourg had helped hundreds of international companies cut their taxes through preferential deals, and “Swiss Leaks,” which a year later exposed how HSBC helped the rich evade taxes. With the Panama Papers, the consortium assembled its largest team to date, carefully coordinating with almost 400 journalists from 70 countries to pore over a single enormous leak of documents. Using research tools developed by the consortium, the team exposed a vast network of offshore banks and shell companies used by the world’s powerful and rich to hide their wealth. Their findings have prompted investigations in dozens of countries, forced political ousters  —   including the prime minister of Iceland  —   and inspired policy debates around the world. The Panama Papers also brought a new level of renown to the consortium. And it prompted peers and supporters to wonder whether the organization could provide a model for a segment of the journalism industry particularly hard hit by shrinking budgets and other market forces. “Given the need to operate within the budgets we have, I. C. I. J. has done an astounding job,” Mr. Bale said of the consortium, adding that he hoped the Center for Public Integrity could incorporate some of its techniques. Mr. Bale acknowledged that tensions between the two groups had increased and might fan the desire by some at the consortium to spin off into a separate organization. That, he said, would be a mistake the center’s board opposes such a move.   could help, and both Mr. Bale and Mr. Ryle said they hoped the consortium’s increased profile would attract support to help stabilize the center’s overall finances. But for now, the cutbacks at the consortium are particularly painful. The group has spent much of the last two weeks moving up five floors from its own offices into the center’s. And though Mr. Ryle said he hoped to be able to hire back some of the contractors he had let go, for now, he said, he would have to make do with less. “It gives you an enormous amount of freedom in the journalism,” Mr. Ryle said of the nonprofit model, “but you have to accept that there is a cost sometimes on the other side. ” For Ryan Chittum, one of the three contractors who left last month after more than a year working on the Panama Papers, the timing is as frustrating as it is ironic. “There’s still a lot to do on that story  —   it’s just kind of an unfortunate commentary on the fragility of journalism,” Mr. Chittum said. “It’s not like I make huge dollars, but we don’t have money to do it right now. ”