Each week, Nate Cohn, The Upshot’s elections analyst, and Toni Monkovic, an Upshot editor, will discuss the 2016 race and post a lightly edited transcript of their written exchange. In trying to stop Donald Trump, Republicans could not turn to their superdelegates  —   because they didn’t exist. That may be the best argument for Democrats to keep such a body, and yet superdelegates have never seemed in so much danger. Bernie Sanders says he will campaign to win over superdelegates, despite their verdict against him on Monday night, then hopes to eliminate them in future elections. But first up in this week’s conversation, the big news from Monday: Hillary Clinton, with the help of those superdelegates, was declared the presumptive Democratic nominee. Toni According to your article late tonight (Monday) the Clinton team didn’t seem to want to have the clinching occur with the help of superdelegates. They would have preferred to win with votes in Tuesday’s elections. Nate Yeah, it’s hard to think of many worse ways for Hillary Clinton to get here. Here’s this historic moment  —   the first woman to win a major party nomination  —   and it catches everyone by surprise, and they have to downplay it. It feeds into the notion that the whole thing is rigged. Toni Bernie Sanders is going to feel enormous pressure to end this race. But a victory in California and maybe a few other states would be the ultimate rejoinder. It’s still possible. Besides California, he could easily win in North Dakota and South Dakota. And Montana, too? Nate I think he’s a very clear favorite in North Dakota, a caucus, and Montana, an open primary in the Mountain West. He’s a somewhat more modest favorite in South Dakota, but Clinton overperformed a bit in caucuses in neighboring Iowa, Nebraska, Minnesota and Wyoming, so I wouldn’t completely write off a Clinton win in a primary there. Next up would be New Mexico, but that’s both a diverse state and a closed primary. It’s a lot harder for him. Toni Any victory would be extra sweet for him, particularly California. After Tuesday, President Obama will lean on him. Others will lean on him. It’s purely a guess, but I think he keeps going to the convention. Nate I don’t think so, Toni. Did you see what he said tonight after the networks called the race for Clinton? Toni No. Too busy editing. I’ll look it up now. Nate You didn’t miss anything! He said nothing about it. That doesn’t sound like a candidate who is going to vigorously contest the outcome. Toni This is what I found, a news release. Nate Yes, but he gave a whole speech, and he didn’t mention it once. Toni So you think he’ll drop out. How does it play out? Nate To be clear, I have no inside information. I’m just saying that, if I had to bet, I’d say that he’ll concede sometime this week or at least before the D. C. primary (June 14). Update I just think there’s a lot of evidence coming together. Jeff Merkley’s comment. Sanders having his event at 1 a. m. which is after the California polls close and after Clinton clinches pledged delegates, but before he could plausibly lead in California, given the early vote. Toni Do you think a lot of his supporters would be ready for that? Nate Not the ones that tweet at me. Toni Ha. But they’re the ones who could vote for Jill Stein and help Trump win the election. Or maybe just vote for Trump? Nate They could. They say they will, at least on Twitter. I do think that some of them will be swayed by the likes of Barack Obama, Elizabeth Warren and perhaps even Bernie himself. But not all  —   though I wonder how many of them would have voted for Obama. Toni I think almost all of them in 2008, but fewer in 2012 and fewer still as time went on and disillusionment set in. That’s one of the big questions remaining for this election: whether Sanders supporters put it behind them and eventually accept Clinton. The way it happened tonight may not help, but in the end, it may not matter. Trump could persuade Bernie supporters all by himself, and this week he seems to be doing a heck of a job. Nate Yeah, I think that’s probably right. And it is very hard to imagine how Trump is supposed to make inroads anywhere if he keeps up this pace, let alone among people who supported a Democratic socialist. Toni I still believe Bernie will fight at the convention about superdelegates. Let’s imagine that there were no superdelegates to start the campaign. That would have still left Sanders with his biggest problem. It wasn’t closed primaries, it wasn’t the media, it wasn’t superdelegates. (Not saying those played no role). It was that he was routed among black voters, who have played a hugely influential role in recent presidential campaigns. Nate I think that’s right. It’s not too much of an exaggeration to say that Clinton and Sanders were basically tied among nonblack voters, and that Clinton then built her lead on a huge margin among black voters. It allowed her to sweep the South by a huge margin  —   margins that Sanders never really countered. Toni Some Sanders supporters have been asking for proportional representation of superdelegates tied to the popular vote in each state. But that essentially gets him nowhere, right? Nate Nowhere. In fact, I’d argue it would set him back: It would lock superdelegates into the results of the primaries. Keeping the superdelegates unbound gives him a case that he’s not completely eliminated until they’ve voted. There are all sorts of arguments about how the Democratic nominating process is problematic. The superdelegates have taken a lot of flak, and there’s a solid argument for it. But this race was not close, and it was not decided by technicalities in the rules. Toni Let me defend the concept of superdelegates for a moment. It’s also, in a way, a defense of expertise. If you’re a political pro, you’re more likely to know, for example, that Sanders’s edge over Clinton in    polls against Donald Trump may not mean much. You’re also more likely to know the nuances of policy than the average person. A lot of people don’t realize this, but some    are allowed to vote in primaries. Is it elitist to think that it’s more meaningful if Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon and the Minnesota congressman Keith Ellison support Sanders  —   they are two of his superdelegates  —   than if most    do? (I have no problem with    voting, by the way). Nate Haha, well, why have elections at all then, Toni? Toni The bottom line is: Is there any value at all in having superdelegates? Nate I think so, and there are two big reasons. One is that they’re helpful in the event of a contested convention  —   say, a   race where no candidate reached 50 percent of pledged delegates, something like what the Republicans would have faced if they had used proportional delegate rules like the Democrats. My instinct is that superdelegates probably have a better chance of coordinating a solution than a bunch of unaccountable and unacquainted delegates. The other is that they’re helpful if there’s good reason to believe the dynamics of the race have fundamentally changed. Imagine, for instance, that Barack Obama had been a badly damaged candidate after the Reverend Wright tapes were released  —   say he fell far behind in national polls, or he didn’t win any remaining contests, including the ones he was supposed to win, like North Carolina or Oregon. I think superdelegates would have been justified in siding with the results of the latter primaries. Toni Yes, superdelegates are more flexible than a lot of people might think. And an indictment of Hillary Clinton is not an impossibility. But now let me play devil’s advocate. I can also envision how the superdelegate system could become untenable. If Sanders had edged Clinton by, say, two pledged delegates, it’s conceivable that the superdelegates would have overturned that verdict by the voters. They could have cited things like popular vote totals or his reliance on caucus victories. In that event, you would have had an extraordinary mess (you think Sanders supporters are upset now? ). And it makes you wonder if the idea of superdelegates is sustainable in the long run. If something like that happened, it’s easy to imagine that superdelegates would be abolished for future elections. Nate So yes, I think that’s totally possible. But you could imagine ways around this problem. Maybe superdelegates need to be “triggered”  —   say, if no candidate earns a majority of delegates, or 52 percent of delegates, or something like that. Although that wouldn’t help in the event that there’s reason to think that the race had fundamentally changed since the early contests. But as it was, it was a little ridiculous that superdelegates still loomed over a race where a candidate was winning the popular vote by 14 or so percentage points. Toni Yes, it left Sanders in the awkward position of having railed against superdelegates and then basing the entire rest of his campaign on them. What’s your feeling on the possibility of a change in the superdelegate system at the convention? A compromise to cut them significantly could be a tool for Clinton to make peace with Sanders and his supporters. Elizabeth Warren, who is a superdelegate, has come out against superdelegates, so momentum seems to be building. But getting rid of them entirely wouldn’t be easy, right? Nate I don’t have a great sense of how likely it is that they’ll change the superdelegates, but they’ve probably been more trouble than they’ve been worth to the Democrats so far. It wouldn’t surprise me if people were willing to cut or reform them in some way. Toni Staying with California, Donald Trump has spent time campaigning there (in a   state) instead of in battleground states. Is there a strategy buried in there somewhere? Or should it be called strategery? Nate I don’t think so. Can you even think of anything? Toni Not a thing. What does that say about his campaign advisers? Or probably he doesn’t listen to them. Nate Well, the reporting  —   including from The Times  —   indicates that the campaign is something of a mess right now, and that’s exactly how I’d describe their travel schedule. In recent weeks, Nate and Toni discussed claims from Sanders supporters that elections were rigged surveys showing Sanders outperforming Clinton in polling against Donald Trump and whether Elizabeth Warren could have defeated Clinton. 