Kiah Stokes celebrated New Year’s Eve at a nightclub in Istanbul, where she plays basketball for Besiktas of the Turkish league. But a night of revelry turned alarming when club employees told patrons they had to shut down early for security reasons. As Stokes and her friends left the building, they saw   roads. They cautiously walked for about 10 minutes before finding a taxi to take them home, not knowing that a gunman had killed 39 people at another club down the street and was still at large. “You don’t think something can happen,” said Stokes, who, in September, finished her second season with the Liberty of the W. N. B. A. “Now I’m like, ‘Wow, this is just scary. ’” Players like Stokes have long packed up after the W. N. B. A. season and spent their winters abroad, competing with teams that offer larger paychecks than the women can earn in the American league. This   more W. N. B. A. players ended up in Turkey than in any other country. There are now 26, according to the league’s players’ association. The unrest there  —   an attempted coup last summer and multiple terrorist attacks  —   has led some players to question the costs of taking a second job overseas. It has also added urgency to efforts to keep W. N. B. A. players in the United States in the  . “It’s kind of sad we can’t stay home,” said Liberty guard Sugar Rodgers, who played for the Turkish club Osmaniye but returned to Virginia in November because she did not feel safe. About two weeks after the Liberty were eliminated from the playoffs, Rodgers joined Osmaniye, which is based about two hours from the Syrian border. Shortly after her arrival, a car bombing killed at least 17 people at a checkpoint in Syria’s Aleppo Province. “That right there shook me,” said Rodgers, who has also played in France, Israel and Slovakia. She acknowledged that the United States was not immune to such violence, but in Turkey, the threat of danger felt almost constant. “Getting emails saying families from embassies are leaving  —   the consulate or embassy were leaving  —   that rings a bell,” Rodgers said. She soon got out of her contract. “My team was understanding,” Rodgers said, adding, “I’m not going to play to my full potential always watching over my back. ” As Turkey became increasingly unstable last year, the W. N. B. A. and the players’ association arranged new security measures for the women who would go overseas in the  . In late December, the league provided an app that would allow players to communicate easily with the W. N. B. A. office from anywhere in the world. In an emergency, the office can give information about safe areas and contacts. Jayne    —   the union’s associate director of player relations, who competed in China and Turkey as well as in the W. N. B. A.  —   set up and maintained a group chat for the league’s players in Turkey. When Terri Carmichael Jackson, a former N. C. A. A. executive, became the director of operations for the players’ association last May, she focused on improving security for players overseas. The union met with the league’s director of security, Eric Rhodes, who suggested more collaboration with the State Department and some relatively simple measures, like pointing players to the department’s Smart Traveler Enrollment Program. The program, a State Department spokesman said, allows travelers to “receive messages from the nearest U. S. Embassy or Consulate, which stand at the ready to assist U. S. citizens abroad. ” “We get news of an incident,” Jackson said, “and we kind of have a   plan in place, informally, here in the office. ” She added, “There’s always a concern there might be a blackout with media and news services. ” Lisa M. Borders, the W. N. B. A.’s president, was attending church services when she heard about the Istanbul attack. Last season, her first as president, Borders gave her personal cellphone number to every player in the league. Until New Year’s Eve, it was seen primarily as a gesture of good will. Borders said that after contacting the league’s security officials that night for instructions, she reached out to players individually. She declined to name which players had communicated with her. “I feel compelled to be deeply engaged with my players overseas, as well as domestically,” she said. “Speaking to players immediately in harm’s way is very relieving to me  —   that I can reach them with a phone call, that they will answer me or FaceTime me and let me know what’s happening. ” Players have noticed the league’s increased efforts to ensure their safety abroad. But many pointed out that they would not feel the need to leave the United States if their W. N. B. A. salaries were higher. According to the most recent   agreement,   players in the W. N. B. A. received a base salary of $39, 676 to $50, 617 in 2016, not including performance bonuses, housing stipends and other benefits. A player in her third year made as much as $54, 609. The most recent   agreement also included a $50, 000   bonus for each team to distribute among players who limit their overseas competition to three months or less. Aside from relieving security fears, an athlete who stays in the United States avoids the physical stress of an extra basketball season. The league also offers professional internships and   programs for the   and it is considering other ways to keep players home in the winter. “I get it,” Borders said. “You want to make sure you are having one job making enough money to pay bills, sustain family and do things we all want to do. That day will come. ” The league needs more revenue for that to happen, she said, adding that her chief operating officer, Jay Parry, met early this month with executives from each team to explore ways to increase attendance. Stokes, who did not disclose her Besiktas salary, said she would probably forgo her second job if the W. N. B. A. could replace most of her overseas income. An ESPN article in 2012 quoted an agent’s estimate that the average overseas salary for a female basketball player was $72, 000. For now, Stokes plans to remain in Turkey until the season ends in early May, despite the hazards. A few weeks before the New Year’s Eve attack, dozens of people were killed in a double bombing outside Besiktas’s soccer stadium, about a mile from where Stokes lives. “It freaked me out,” she said. She had read about the country’s turmoil during the summer, but she took comfort in knowing that a Liberty teammate who had played in Turkey before, Shavonte Zellous, would also be on the Besiktas team. But Zellous said her past experience in the country did not match what she was seeing this season. “The cities they’re bombing, I never imagined terror groups doing something in these cities,” Zellous said. “I think stuff is really getting real now. ” Stokes said that security measures had become noticeably stronger at games and that the team had more frequent police escorts on the road. She also said that she had become attached to her Turkish team and felt a certain level of commitment to it, even if friends and family yearn for her to return. “My mom wants me to come home right now,” Stokes said. “She said it’s too dangerous, it’s scary. She knows the money is good, but it’s not worth it. It definitely crossed my mind. ”