Welcome to Watching, The New York Times’s    guide. We comb through releases big and small, famous and esoteric, to email readers twice a week with our timely recommendations. Our most recent suggestions also appear below. To receive our guide straight to your inbox, sign up here. I know   seasons are increasingly de rigueur, and lots of European series have even fewer episodes than that, but I still feel a little robbed when season finales come this quickly after season premieres. This is it for “Veep?” We’ve only just begun! This weekend I’ll be watching several   events  —   United States gymnastics championships, swimming and diving trials  —   because I am a total Olympics nut. Televise more, NBC! I’d watch judo. I’d watch preliminary javelin rounds. I’d watch mascot tryouts. If you have any questions you’d like to see answered here (for either me or Watching film writer Monica Castillo) we’d love to hear them: watching@nytimes. com. “Please Like Me,” on Hulu Watch if you like thoughtful, observational comedy and    stories. The show’s creator Josh Thomas stars as a loose version of himself in this extraordinarily lovable Australian comedy about a college student who has just come out. He’s dealing with doofy roommates, a suicidal mother and his own (sweet) awkwardness. If you like “My Mad Fat Diary,” or if you wish quirky indie movies had more developed stories, try “Please Like Me. ” There’s even a cute dog. Hulu currently has 16   episodes but 26 have aired in Australia. “Center Stage: On Pointe,” Saturday, 8 p. m. Lifetime. Watch if you like dance movies or Peter Gallagher when he’s angry. When “Center Stage” came out in 2000, who among us would have guessed it would spawn two     . This one, arriving eight years after “Center Stage: Turn It Up” aired on Oxygen, follows in its predecessors’   footsteps: It’s heavy on dance and light on convincing dialogue. If you are expecting highbrow greatness, let’s step aside and have a little talk about looking for love in all the wrong places. But if you are in search of several   montages, shot after shot of muscular legs and the kinds of dirty looks you typically only encounter on a   Mexican telenovela, this is your jam. “The Bureau,” available on iTunes, where the first episode is free. Watch if you like foreign thrillers and slow burns. This French series centers on a spy (Mathieu Kassovitz, “Amélie”) who returns home to Paris after six years undercover in Syria. Six years that included a serious love affair with someone he’s not quite ready to say goodbye to. There’s also another agent who has disappeared under strange circumstances, a daughter who’s not sure what to make of her   father and agency   who may or may not be supporting his best interests. My partner and I routinely struggle with what to watch. One of our favorite shows ever was “The Comeback. ” Lisa Kudrow’s   character was nothing short of amazing (and somehow she pulled off being simultaneously funny and sad all at once). Is there any other    show type thing that you’d suggest for us? Or any show with that same awkward sense of humor?  —   Patrick You seek “BoJack Horseman. ” And not just because Lisa Kudrow is in Season 2, though there’s also that. The Netflix animated series is about a   ‘90s sitcom star with severe depression and a pathological need to be liked, but from afar like Valerie Cherish, BoJack has this gasping desperation, and it’s not clear how much of that is the fallout from them no longer being famous and how much of it is what made them want to be famous in the first place. The first six episodes of “BoJack” lay the groundwork for what the show grows into, so don’t write it off early. Trust me. In terms of the     there’s a whole Christmas Special that’s an episode of BoJack’s T. G. I. F.  show “Horsin’ Around. ” (Watch on Netflix) If you like your comedies with a serious dose of pathos, you might like “Getting On,” about the staff and patients of a hospital’s geriatric wing. It’s less cruel than “The Comeback,” but just as open with its characters’ frustrations. There’s a British original and an American adaptation, and both are great if you can handle sad humor. (Watch on HBOGo or see the British version on Hulu.) If you like stress humor, I’m going to assume you’ve seen “Curb Your Enthusiasm. ” So finally, if you like shows that are comfortable with discomfort  —   and don’t mind or maybe even enjoy that internal scream of “aaaahhh, no, oh God”  —   try “Nathan for You. ” The host Nathan Fielder “helps” small businesses by coming up with nutty, often completely absurd marketing schemes, but it’s never totally clear who is on the inside of this inside joke. I’m cringing just thinking about it. (Watch on Hulu.) • Most soccer fans already know, but the Copa América finals will see Argentina facing off against Chile. (8 p. m. Fox Sports 1, Univision, and Univision Deportes) • The 2013   “Dancing on the Edge,” about jazz in 1930s London and starring Chiwetel Ejiofor and Matthew Goode, makes its way to public broadcasting. (Part 1, 8 p. m. PBS) • It’s Shark Week. Things kick off with specials about tiger sharks and mako sharks before finally getting to the great whites. (8, 9 and 10 p. m. Discovery Channel) • “Game of Thrones,” “Veep” and “Silicon Valley” all air their season finales. Each show has already been renewed fret not. “Vinyl,” on the other hand . .. (9, 10, and 10:30 p. m. HBO) • “Ray Donovan” has its Season 4 premiere. (9 p. m. Showtime) • Alec Baldwin hosts the latest attempt to revive “The Match Game. ” (10 p. m. ABC) • “Roadies,” Cameron Crowe’s cloying new show starring Luke Wilson, about rock ’n’ roll roadies on tour, premieres. (10 p. m. Showtime) It may be the beginning of summer, but with all of these movies disappearing from HBO and Netflix, I don’t see myself at the beach quite yet. Get around to these titles that have been sitting in your queue before they’re gone late next week.  —   Monica Castillo Netflix (titles expiring July 1) A League of Their Own: Sadly, the Rockford Peaches are ending their season just as the weather is warming up, but this movie is a perennial choice if you’re looking for a   . Geena Davis stars in this fictionalized retelling of the inaugural season of the   Girls Professional Baseball League, with all the heartbreak and good cheer of a classic sports movie. Remember, “there’s no crying in baseball!” (Watch on Netflix) Best in Show: Focusing his signature mockumentary lens on another wacky realm, the director Christopher Guest (“Waiting for Guffman”) ropes in a large cast of characters for an absurd look at a regional dog show. The dogs prove to be better behaved than their owners, some of who are busy taking their pet to therapy or hiding affairs with their trainer. This is a perfect companion for dog lovers with a sense of humor. Adorable pups  . (Watch on Netflix) The Quiet Man: John Wayne ditches the cowboy hat to go    with a fiery Maureen O’Hara in the Irish countryside. In this 1952 romance, Wayne leaves America for Ireland to reclaim his family home when he falls for the Irish lass next door portrayed by O’Hara. (Watch on Netflix) Also: “Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,” “Bulworth,” “The Central Park Five” HBO (titles expiring June 30) Malcolm X: Before Ava DuVernay put Martin Luther King Jr. ’s story on the big screen with “Selma,” Spike Lee gave King’s contemporary a more sprawling biopic treatment. Denzel Washington would earn an Oscar nomination for his performance as the title character. (Watch on HBO) One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest: If you find yourself feeling a little anarchic and want a movie to match, try this one before it escapes. Jack Nicholson pours all of his manic energy into the character of Randle Patrick McMurphy, a provocateur in a mental institution challenging every authority figure in sight. But he may have met his match in the chilling Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher). (Watch on HBO) What We Do in The Shadows: This offbeat mockumentary follows a houseful of vampires as they cope with the modern world. The brainchild of “Flight of the Conchords” star Jemaine Clement and his frequent collaborator Taika Waititi looks at the lives of the undead with witty, deadpan humor. (Watch on HBO) Also: “The Godfather Epic,” “Pretty in Pink,” “Music and Lyrics”