With a bright sun and an easy breeze, the morning had the makings of a perfect Sunday in Central Park for strolling visitors. Then, around 11 a. m. an explosion interrupted the quiet. Officials said a young man walking in the southeastern end of the park stepped on what turned out to be explosive material that had been left behind. Investigators believe it was part of an “experiment with fireworks,” police officials said, and declined to call the material a device. The police said they do not believe it was connected to terrorism. “It is not unusual for the public to make or try to create homemade fireworks around the Fourth of July,” said John O’Connell, a deputy police chief for counterterrorism with the New York Police Department. Soon after the blast, social media posts circulated describing a grisly scene, the victim bloodied and maimed. And there was a rush of journalists and police officers who, coincidentally, were already nearby for the funeral services of Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Peace Prize winner. Even President Obama was briefed about the explosion. The jolt escalated quickly from there as some news organizations reported that the authorities were shutting down Central Park, a colossal undertaking  —   clearing out the   park  —   that would have indicated something worse than an accident involving fireworks had taken place. Those reports were quickly dismissed by police officials as erroneous, but still, fear and anxiety had been stirred around the park. “We are worried,” Giselle Brown, 42, said as she sat on a bench on Fifth Avenue with relatives visiting from Nicaragua. “We want to know exactly what happened. ” After the explosion, the man  —   Connor Golden, who was visiting from Fairfax, Va.  —   was lying against a boulder with his left leg below the calf severely wounded. Someone had tied a strip of blue fabric around his leg as a tourniquet before emergency workers carried him from the park on a stretcher. The authorities said Mr. Golden was taken to Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan, where he was in serious but stable condition. He was undergoing surgery, officials said on Sunday evening. They added that they believe Mr. Golden, who was with two friends at the time, had stumbled upon the material. “We don’t know what happened,” one of the friends, Thomas Hinds, told reporters near the scene. “There was a small explosion. And then dust. ” Lt. Mark Torre, the commander of the Police Department’s bomb squad, said he believed the man had encountered homemade fireworks that did not appear to be designed to explode from contact. “Their goal is to make a loud noise,” Lieutenant Torre said, “maybe make a flash. ” The material, he said, could have been left behind days ago. Later on Sunday, a swath of the park, starting from East 61st Street and heading a few blocks north, remained cordoned off as investigators from the Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation were still at work. Mohammad Matin, 58, left his cart selling ice cream, pretzels, soda and churros when the police told him to leave the area. He went home to Jackson Heights, Queens, leaving the cart unattended for hours. “I was really upset,” Mr. Matin said. “Today is Sunday, a very big day for business. I lost my business. ” Abdul Abdul, 29, heard something while working at a halal food stand outside the park. “I thought a tire had popped,” Mr. Abdul said. But he was stunned to hear what had happened. “Oh my God,” said Mr. Abdul, who has worked at the stand for about a year and a half. “I have never seen anything happen in Central Park before. ”