BALTIMORE  —   I first met Brandon Scott the day after Freddie Gray died. It was April 20, 2015. Mr. Scott, a member of the Baltimore City Council, was quietly observing a news conference where Baltimore police officials announced the suspension of six officers involved in the arrest of Mr. Gray, a    black man who sustained a fatal spinal cord injury in a police transport van. In the blighted West Baltimore neighborhood where Mr. Gray grew up, protests were growing. Mr. Gray’s death was wrenching for Baltimore a lot has transpired here since then. On the day Mr. Gray was buried, riots broke out, prompting Maryland’s governor to call in the National Guard. The fiery state’s attorney, Marilyn Mosby, promptly indicted the six officers on charges including murder. The city paid $6. 4 million to the Gray family. With the murder rate soaring, the mayor fired the police chief  —   and decided not to run for office again, as the city struggled to heal. Then came the officers’ trials, which ended this week without a single conviction. Throughout, I have repeatedly interviewed Mr. Scott. He is 32,   and the vice chairman of the Council committee that oversees the Baltimore police. Before being elected in 2011, he worked in city government and   the 300 Men March, an   group here. On Thursday, we spoke again, about the latest developments and what has changed. Below is an edited and condensed excerpt from that conversation. Ms. Mosby’s team has just accused the Police Department of undermining the prosecution. Does that concern you? My concerns are first and foremost that moving forward, we are doing what we need to do to repair our city  —   to improve   relations. I have spent a good deal of time over the last year working on body cameras, working on trainings with young people. The most important thing  —   what gets lost in all of this, is that we are talking about the loss of a life. But I will be following up with the police commissioner, even though this happened before the current commissioner, to provide a response to those claims. You mentioned body cameras. Are the Baltimore police using them? They will, just like in New York or any other major city, they’re going to be rolled out. We already have body cameras out there at this point, we are close to 200 officers. Body cameras were in the works before Freddie Gray, but most definitely it ratcheted up the pace. What else has changed? The department decided to improve the vans, so that’s a change. And I’m partnering with an organization called Community Mediation, fostering dialogue between youth and the police. Community Mediation is now mediating some internal affairs complaints. A lot of things have changed, things that people don’t see because they’re behind the scenes. I’ve talked to a lot of people who feel as though in the end, justice was not served  —   either for Freddie Gray or for the police. What do you say to that? I think what people must know about American justice is that the way the system is set up, you have to have a certain burden of proof and if it’s not met, then it’s not met. You can be as angry as you want to be, but you have to understand the system and respect it. What about you? Do you personally think justice was served? I can’t personalize it. Like myself, what I would do in a situation like that is talk to the family and see how they feel. If Mr. Gray’s family feels like everything, from the charges, from the state’s attorney proceeding with the trials, everything that has come out of it equals justice to them, then it’s justice. That’s a careful answer. You’ve always been so measured in answering my questions. I’m the grandson of poor farmers in rural North Carolina. I truly understand what it means for me being a young black man in this country. But I try not to be divisive, I try not to be polarizing, because that’s the last thing we need right now. We have enough of that going on. We’ve talked about changes in the city. Have you changed? Of course I have changed. I have shifted my work I’ve tried to do things a little differently. You have to be uncomfortable. If you’re not uncomfortable, if you haven’t changed the way you operate from April 2015 to now, then you’re saying the way our city was, was O. K.  —   and it wasn’t. So what are you doing differently? For example today, I’m on the labor committee in the City Council and we voted to send a bill to the full council raising the city’s minimum wage to $15 by 2022. I don’t think that would have happened before last April. Is Baltimore perhaps a better place now, as a result of Freddie Gray’s death? I can say that there have been changes in Baltimore for the better. But I can’t say that Baltimore is a complete better place, because we still have a lot of people dying. So Ms. Mosby never got any convictions. What, if anything, did she achieve? Many folks feel that her charging the officers would not have happened under the previous state’s attorney. That alone is a big deal for thousands of people in the city. But I would also remember  —   I talked to you and every other media outlet last year, I said, everyone should stay middle ground, because it’s just the beginning of the process. Are you surprised at how it turned out? I thought that at least there would be one charge that would stick with at least one officer, but I can’t say I’m surprised that it turned out the way that it did.