Ivanka Trump, 34, is many things: a mother, an executive and an entrepreneur who has a prominent role in the Republican presidential campaign of her father, Donald J. Trump. Now, because of comments by Mr. Trump and one of her brothers, she has been cast in perhaps an unfamiliar role: a central figure in a debate on social media about how a woman could  —   or should  —   respond to sexual harassment on the job. The issue came up in an interview Mr. Trump had with USA Today that was published on Monday. A columnist asked him about comments he had made on “Meet the Press” on NBC about the sexual harassment case that led to the ouster of the powerful Fox News chairman and chief executive Roger Ailes. Mr. Trump, who has himself faced strong criticism for his remarks about women  —   including derogatory and sexually charged comments about their bodies  —   said it was “sad” that former Fox News employees were “complaining” about being sexually harassed, and he appeared to question the truthfulness of their accusations. When the columnist, Kirsten Powers, asked what would happen if Ivanka Trump faced similar treatment, he replied, “I would like to think she would find another career or find another company if that was the case. ” As criticism rolled in, Eric Trump attempted to defend his father’s comments in an interview on “CBS This Morning” on Tuesday, saying, “I think what he’s saying is, Ivanka is a strong, powerful woman she wouldn’t allow herself to be” subjected to such behavior. “And, by the way,” he added, “you should take it up with human resources, and I think she would as a strong person. ” The comments spurred a swift backlash, with women’s advocates and others saying the suggestion that a woman who is being harassed  —   even one from a wealthy family and one who is a businesswoman in her own right  —   should leave her job was   misguided and unrealistic. Many also said that holding up Ms. Trump as a paragon of how powerful women can stave off harassment by simply being, well, powerful implied that other women allowed themselves to victimized. Terry O’Neill, the president of the National Organization for Women, which has endorsed Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee for president, called the comments “ . ” “The suggestion that she would just go get another career, that is a cavalier attitude that I think so many women I’ve already heard from find deeply offensive because it ignores the reality of women’s everyday lives,” she said in a phone interview on Tuesday. Megyn Kelly, the Fox News host who has feuded with Ms. Trump’s father, posted a   tweet that was widely shared: “Sigh. ” Gretchen Carlson, the former Fox News anchor who sued Mr. Ailes, accusing him of derailing her career after she refused his advances, also wrote on Twitter: “Sad in 2016 we’re still victim blaming women. Trust me I’m strong. ” In an emailed statement on Tuesday, Ms. Trump did not respond directly to the comments of her brother or father, but said: “Harassment in general, sexual or otherwise, is inexcusable. At our companies, we do not tolerate harassment of any kind. Our policies both on paper and in practice require that every complaint be fully investigated and if claims are substantiated, our H. R. team takes swift disciplinary action. ” Fatima Goss Graves, the senior vice president at the National Women’s Law Center, said harassment was one of the ways women were pushed out of some sectors like the tech industry. The E. E. O. C. received almost 7, 000 charges of sexual harassment last year, according to its website. Many cases go unreported. “Employees who do experience harassment often don’t report it because they fear retaliation, they fear professional or social penalties, they worry that they will be blamed for the harassment,” Ms. Graves said. “There are social and emotional costs there are longstanding career costs. ” “Harassment isn’t about someone being weak or strong or asking to be harassed,” she added. “If it was as simple as being a stronger person, it would probably be an easier problem to solve. ” Eric Trump appeared to try to stem the criticism later on Tuesday. He retweeted Amanda Carpenter, a conservative commentator and former aide to Senator Ted Cruz, who also sought the Republican presidential nomination. She wrote: “Strong women may flee sexual harassment. Strong women may also fight, endure, and one day gain power to protect other women. ” “I think this is well said,” he posted. Ms. Trump whose role in her father’s campaign has traditionally been filled by a candidate’s wife, has been called “his secret weapon. ” At the Republican National Convention, she spoke about parental leave, equal pay and the role of women in the Trump Organization. The persona she has created is of a model of American femininity  —   stylish and poised, but also successful in business, said Michael Bronski, a professor of women’s studies at Harvard. On Ms. Trump’s website, #womenwhowork, there are posts on negotiating flexible hours and avoiding “drama at the office. ” But her 2010 book, “The Trump Card: Playing to Win in Work and Life,” shows that even she was not immune to the issue of workplace harassment. Ms. Trump recounted being whistled at by workers at her father’s construction projects. But once they realized she was the boss’s daughter, she said, they were apologetic. It had a big impact on her when she started her first job years later, at the development company Forest City Ratner. She wrote that she had recurring nightmares about being catcalled on a job site in the weeks before she started. She fretted over how she would react in front of her new boss. She didn’t want to come across as either weak, or a “tightly wound witch,” she said. ”I couldn’t shake thinking that I needed to come up with a disarming line to defuse the situation and keep the embarrassment level to a minimum,” Ms. Trump wrote. When she did eventually encounter catcalls, she wrote that she was able to deflect them “with relative ease. ” She says that sexual harassment is never acceptable, but that one should “learn how to figure out when a hoot or a holler is indeed a form of harassment and when it’s merely a   tease that you can give back in kind. ” “Sometimes it might be tough to tell the difference, I realize, and in that case you should do whatever feels right and comfortable. ”