Someone cut the music, and then from the kitchen came the crash of a utensil drawer being yanked out of a wooden cabinet. Vernon Hubbard stepped over tiles strewed with spatulas, spoons, purple plates and an unopened liter of soda. His eyelids were droopy, witnesses said, and in each hand he carried a steak knife. “Nobody’s getting out of here alive,” he said from the apartment doorway, according to a witness. Others remembered a more lurid phrase: People, he warned, would be “leaving out in body bags. ” Some partygoers sat   wedged together on a few living room couches. Others untangled themselves from a brawl that had grown out of a dance in the middle of the room. A woman shouted, “All I want to do is go home. ” In a     polyester shirt and Nikes, with brandy and beer blurring his thinking, Mr. Hubbard seemed barely able to stand, let alone hold anyone hostage. Around 30 people were marooned inside Apartment 15E at 645 Westchester Avenue, a public housing   around East 152nd Street in the South Bronx. Only one elevator was working. Some neighbors, to blunt the weekend noise, had taken sleeping pills and wedged mats in their entryways. A few people grabbed at Mr. Hubbard’s arms, trying to get him to drop the knives. Others hid in a back bedroom. One woman called the police. Everybody screamed. Mr. Hubbard started swinging, witnesses and the police said  —   flailing, really. His arms were locked at the elbow, and his body tipped as he sliced the air. People saw knives flash inside a knot of bodies. Moments later, Julian Washington, a    man in a fitted Yankees hat, staggered into the building’s hallway, bleeding. He had pushed his best friend, Tawana Vargas, out the door as the fight heated up, and she had been pacing the hallway waiting for him. Now, she pulled his left hand away from his head, figuring  —   hoping  —   that he had been smashed with a beer bottle, nothing worse. Blood spurted out of his neck, a few inches below his left ear, and it ran in rivulets down the beige bricks of the hallway wall. Mr. Washington choked on a few words, and then collapsed. Partygoers rushed out behind him, leaving bloody footprints on the floor. Ms. Vargas ran downstairs to look for a police officer. Balloons in purple, gold and black lost their helium and floated to the apartment’s linoleum tile floor. Napkins, ribbons and plastic cups were cracked and torn. They were all in purple, to celebrate the first year the party’s host, Darshonna Willoughby, who is Mr. Hubbard’s cousin, had survived with lupus. Mr. Hubbard waited at the elevator bank. His leather jacket, investigators said, was covered in blood, on its collar and elbows and pockets. The one working elevator arrived. He showed little of the panic of someone who had just stabbed a man, the police said. At the foot of the   part of the St. Mary’s Park Houses, he tossed a knife into the parking lot, witnesses said, waved his arm in vain for a cab and then lumbered toward the subway. Witnesses said the crime was so senseless and the getaway so inept that they had been moved, against their instincts, to point him out to police officers, who stopped him near the subway. On the 15th floor, one person crouched by Mr. Washington’s side: Mr. Hubbard’s sister, Cassandra Newbold, who had been fighting with Mr. Washington, too. She used his clothes to try to stop the bleeding. “I was trying to plug and patch and scream for help,” she said. “Everybody else that was at that party decided to flee the scene. ” That image of a stampede of partygoers racing past Mr. Washington’s   body haunts his brother, Guy Miller. “For everybody just to walk over him, to leave him in the hallway by himself, that’s the crushing part,” Mr. Miller said. “It seemed like he just died by himself, suffering, with nobody there. ” Mr. Washington was pronounced dead at Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center almost an hour later, at 12:53 a. m. on April 10. He became the sixth of 10 homicides logged this year in the 40th Precinct in the South Bronx, making it the second deadliest in New York City, behind the 75th Precinct in East New York, Brooklyn. Some accounts of that night are almost unrecognizable, comparing one with the next. The stories, blurred by heavy drinking, have refracted through friendships and family ties, and through a kaleidoscope of vantage points. The night started more simply. Mr. Washington lived in the apartment in East Harlem where his grandmother had raised him, but the hillside towers of the St. Mary’s Park Houses were his second home. It was there, in Ms. Vargas’s apartment on the ninth floor, that he would play Call of Duty and Grand Theft Auto, smoke cigarettes and debate voting for Bernie Sanders. He and Ms. Vargas had met in high school and dated before she came out as gay and he as bisexual. He was witty and   with a natural talent for dance, and he made fast friends around the housing project, where people called him Peaches. On April 9, a Saturday, he walked there over the Harlem River, his long legs carrying him almost as quickly as the subway could. On the stove in his apartment, Mr. Washington had left half a pot of seafood gumbo, a favorite dish among his friends that he hoped to perfect in culinary school someday soon. He met Ms. Vargas in her sister’s apartment in the same complex, where Mr. Washington sometimes stayed the night on a tattered couch beneath the windows. Mr. Washington was unemployed, but his friends were unwinding from long weeks at work. They passed around big bottles of Corona, the communion cup of their gatherings. From there, they bounced around an archipelago of public housing apartments, corner spots and hallways where they could hang out free of charge and unbothered, for the most part, by the police. Mr. Washington drank beer, got some food and talked up a recent WWE wrestling event with a younger friend. At each spot, they picked up a few more people. Ms. Vargas said she recently warned Mr. Washington about the danger lurking in her corner of the vast public housing landscape in the South Bronx. “Don’t hang out in this building,” she said she told him. “This area is just bad, period. Just stay in Harlem where you live. ” But, she added, “Julian was just that type of person always looking for something. ” Mr. Washington used to party in the West Village and at the nearby piers with a ragtag group of gay people, many of them black and Hispanic. But as gentrification marched toward the water, his circle lost that spot on the margins of the city, where they could let loose among strangers they trusted. Mr. Washington started spending more time in Bronx parks and housing projects. Shortly after 11 p. m. Mr. Washington got curious about the party for Ms. Willoughby on the 15th floor. They had not been invited, and none of them were dressed in purple, the color of lupus awareness, as an invitation had asked, so Mr. Washington walked down a flight of stairs to ask if they could join. “So then he came back, he was like, ‘Yes, it’s lit, she said we can come down,’” Ms. Vargas said. For much of the night, the party had been relaxed. Mr. Hubbard had arrived around 6 p. m. People were sitting and talking on couches around the living room. Reggae and   hits were playing over the speakers, among them Rihanna’s single “Work,” Mr. Washington’s favorite song of the moment. It had something of the feeling of a family reunion. Ms. Willoughby had invited a number of her cousins, among them Mr. Hubbard, with whom she had reconnected only a few months earlier through her grandfather. He had come halfheartedly, his mother said in an interview. His sister, Ms. Newbold, asked him to bring food she had cooked: pans of pork shoulder, fried chicken, collard greens, crab salad and macaroni and cheese. Ms. Willoughby, wearing all black, cut the cake, which had two photos: one when she was in the hospital being treated for lupus, and another from when she had started feeling better. Mr. Hubbard, 35, looked out of place. A   chef who had entered foster care when he was 12, he had been spending much of his time at home since being stabbed in the spine with an ice pick last summer during a robbery or possible gang assault, his mother, Venice Quinones, said. He was overheard complaining to his sister about wanting to go home until she persuaded him to stay. And he was getting drunk. He said in a jailhouse interview that he was downing EJ brandy and Miller beer. “He just looked crazy in his eyes  —   he looked crazy to me,” said Natasha Hill, a partygoer. “They were red, and he looked like he had evil in his eyes. ” The staid mood swung when Mr. Washington and his friends entered. They started dancing right away, despite the quizzical looks they were getting from the other partygoers, whom they did not know. The living room, 11 feet by 17 feet, swelled with people, some spilling into the hallway. “I think they were kind of taken aback by the fact that we were so hype,” Ms. Vargas recalled. She and Mr. Washington went into the sliver of a kitchen to pour themselves Georgi vodka. Ms. Newbold, in Army fatigue pants, seemed to take offense. “She was like, ‘Who y’all with?’ or something along those lines,” Ms. Vargas said. Mr. Washington, gently needling his interrogator, answered, “Boo Boo Kitty, we good,” using the nickname for a character on the nighttime soap opera “Empire. ” The music turned from radio hits to more aggressive dance beats. People started dancing so hard that one attendee jokingly said to a friend that she thought someone’s head was going to fall off. A circle formed, and a friend of Mr. Washington’s, Raldy Sanchez, started dancing near Ms. Newbold. The throbbing music seemed, from the start, like a volatile addition to the blend of alcohol and suspicion. Out of the tangle of bodies, no two people emerged with the same memory of what went wrong. In Mr. Sanchez’s telling, he was dancing in a tight space, with Ms. Newbold and others pressing up against him, when out of nowhere, Mr. Hubbard yanked on a beaded necklace he was wearing. Mr. Sanchez said he threw a punch and shoved Mr. Hubbard to try to get him to back off, before three or four people jumped on him and started pummeling him. Mr. Washington and Ms. Vargas were in the kitchen, and they came running when they heard the commotion. They both threw punches, too. Mr. Washington, his friends said, tried to break up the fight and pushed his friends out of the apartment. Though Mr. Hubbard’s swings hit Mr. Washington, the only person who was hurt, the police believe Mr. Sanchez had been his target. “They were aiming for him, and his friend jumped in,” said Detective Jesus Rodriguez of the 40th Precinct detective squad. “Julian jumped in and saved him. Julian took the brunt of it. ” Mr. Hubbard, who has pleaded not guilty to   murder and other charges, said in the interview that the fight gave him flashbacks to when he was stabbed last summer. But he denied killing Mr. Washington and said an explanation for the blood on his jacket would wait until September, when he is due back in court. The authorities, after wading through the various stories, said they gave credence to the view that Ms. Newbold and Mr. Hubbard were the ones who had escalated the fight. But Ms. Newbold said the brawl had started when she was dancing with her back to Mr. Sanchez and, out of nowhere, felt a push and landed face down on a couch. All of a sudden, Ms. Newbold said, several people were raining punches on her. She also said she heard a man yell, “Go get the heat,” referring to a gun. The police piled as many witnesses as they could into patrol cars and vans to take down their stories at the station house on Alexander Avenue. Sgt. Michael J. LoPuzzo, the commander of the detective squad, said the witnesses were separated so differences in their stories could not be smoothed over. “Everyone’s in a different corner,” Sergeant LoPuzzo said. Others came forward in the days after  —   a rarity in the South Bronx, where it can be risky to witness things. In the station house, Mr. Hubbard, carrying the stench of liquor, could not speak at first. Then he gave nonsensical answers, and he fell asleep. A couple of weeks after he was killed, Mr. Washington’s funeral was held in a small, plush chapel in Harlem. He was known as a stylish man, and his attire at the funeral was something of a compromise: the linen suit his grandmother would have wanted him to wear, and the more casual   and fitted cap that reflected his own tastes. (He had been increasingly attached to the hat, too, as a way of hiding his bald spot.) The observances in some ways resembled the family reunion that Mr. Washington had been trying to orchestrate in his last months. He had been separated from his siblings at age 5, when his mother put him and a younger brother into a cab by themselves, his older brother, Mr. Miller, said. When they arrived at a relative’s home with unexplained burns on their backs, someone called the city’s child welfare agency. The siblings soon were scattered across the city  —   some to foster homes, and others to relatives. Mr. Washington was taken in by his grandmother, a churchgoing woman who sent him to ballet classes and took him on trips to Europe. His mother became addicted to drugs, and though Mr. Washington still struggled with feelings of resentment, he had been trying in recent months to find a few lost siblings and bring everyone together for a gathering. He was also still, seven years after his grandmother’s death, trying to climb out of the depression that had started after her passing. When Mr. Miller went into his brother’s apartment after his death, he discovered that Mr. Washington had gotten rid of all of her old furniture. Eviction notices were piling up. After the funeral, Mr. Washington’s family held a repast in the basement of the Storefront Academy Harlem, a grade school he attended. Over plates of fried chicken prepared by his mother, people’s tears gave way to happier recollections. Rihanna blared out of a few speakers. Everyone was dressed in white. Without anyone seeming to mean to, a circle of friends and family formed around an open stretch of floor. Into the middle burst Mr. Miller, in immaculate white   and Mr. Washington’s uncle, Dasean Miller, who wore a heavy,   jacket. Before anyone could process it, their bodies were a whirl of white cloth, top hats and gold chains. “It’s crazy because this is what we were doing that night,” Ms. Vargas whispered. “And that’s Julian,” she said, pointing to Guy Miller. “He dances just like Julian. ”