The fallout from Ryan Lochte’s story about being robbed at gunpoint in Rio  —   a tale the Brazilian police said was not true  —   continued Monday when four companies said they would end business partnerships with Mr. Lochte, an American swimmer and   Olympic medalist. After a week of intense international media attention and anger in Brazil, the financial repercussions were swift for Mr. Lochte as Speedo USA, the luxury clothing retailer Ralph Lauren and the mattress company Airweave all announced that they would part ways with him. And Syneron Candela, a company that sells   devices, told Reuters its relationship with the swimmer ended on Sunday. Speedo USA said in a message on Twitter that it would instead donate a $50, 000 portion of Mr. Lochte’s fee to a charity to help Brazilian children. “While we have enjoyed a winning relationship with Ryan for over a decade and he has been an important member of the Speedo team, we cannot condone behavior that is counter to the values this brand has long stood for,” the company said in its statement. On Monday, Kim Angelastro, a spokeswoman for Syneron Candela, wrote in an email, “We hold our employees to high standards, and we expect the same of our business partners. ” Mr. Lochte was a spokesman for the company’s Gentle Hair Removal brand. Through a spokeswoman, Ralph Lauren said Monday that Mr. Lochte’s endorsement agreement with the clothing company had been for only the 2016 Olympics, and that his contract would not be renewed. Airweave said on Twitter that “after careful consideration, we have made the decision to end our partnership with Ryan Lochte. ” The decisions to cut ties with Mr. Lochte, 32, were the first major signs of the financial fallout for him. For the past week, he has been at the center of an international firestorm after the Brazilian police said he and three other American athletes  —   Jimmy Feigen, Jack Conger and Gunnar Bentz  —   had fabricated the account of being robbed after a   party in Rio de Janeiro. The authorities said that the swimmers had instead drunkenly vandalized a gas station bathroom, paying a security guard about $50 for the damage before leaving. Mr. Lochte originally said that the car they were traveling in had been stopped by armed men, who held a gun to his head. But his story later changed. A Brazilian judge ordered the swimmers to remain in Rio, but Mr. Lochte had already left the country. After Mr. Conger and Mr. Bentz were pulled from their flight to the United States, they told the police that the confrontation began when Lochte pulled a poster off a gas station wall. Mr. Feigen, 26, later donated $10, 800 to a charity in Rio that teaches martial arts to poor children. Mr. Lochte first issued an apology on social media  —   “I should have been much more responsible for how I handled myself,” he wrote  —   then told Matt Lauer in an interview on NBC that he had been intoxicated and that he had “overexaggerated that story. ” He has maintained that he was held at gunpoint. “All we know is that there was a gun pointed in our direction, and we were demanded to give money,” Mr. Lochte said. Mr. Lochte, whose boyish and sometimes oafish personality had made him a commercial success in Olympics past, had headed into Rio with fewer sponsors than he’d had at the London Games, according to a report by CNN Money. Mr. Lochte took home a gold medal in the   freestyle relay in Rio.