A few days after first grade ended, in June 1967, I boarded a train pulling out of Union Station in Chicago with my parents, younger brother and baby sister. My father, a University of Chicago Ph. D. candidate, had decided to bail out of academia and move to San Francisco, where he planned to devote himself to writing poetry and where, coincidentally, the Summer of Love was about to commence. The counterculture meant nothing to me then, but that summer in San Francisco was to be historic. Over the next few months, tens of thousands of young people across America left their own cities, parents and schools and hitchhiked to the area around the corner of Haight and Ashbury Streets to tune into drugs and music, and tune out of “square” society. They converged there, having heard about free food and free love. In that summer of 1967,   transformed into the epicenter of the counterculture movement. My parents were slightly older than the typical flower children, but they belonged to a cohort of creative people drawn to   and that moment of cultural change. What they found changed the course of our family’s future. But for me, oblivious to what they were seeking, the journey sparked my imagination more than any other single episode in my childhood. The year we spent living in San Francisco  —   in a   apartment a few blocks from the corner of Haight and Ashbury  —   left a few memories. But that   trip on the passenger train called the California Zephyr was imprinted in my mind. We rode in the cheap seats. Dad was an admirer of the   exemplified by the Beat poets. (In San Francisco, he would work as a night hotel clerk much like the Beats who influenced him.) Dad wouldn’t have thought of doing something as conventional and expensive as buying five tickets on an airplane or splashing out on a sleeper car. But for a    a train seat is no more or less comfortable than a bed. As the train started to roll, I stuck my nose to the glass, and for three days and two nights watched half of America flicker past. The flat cornfields of Illinois and Iowa slowly graduated into the rolling hills of Nebraska. A night passed and we were glimpsing the peaks of the Rockies. For a memorable day, the train teetered along tracks perched above impossibly steep gorges, high above rushing mountain streams. Somewhere in the dark, in a place of moonlit buttes, we pulled up at a town where I thought I saw  —   or did I dream?  —   that men waited for disembarking passengers on horseback. I remember the blinding sunlight of station stops in Salt Lake City and Reno, and then again the mountains, the vistas of the Sierra Nevada, the silver rivulets of snowmelt twinkling far below, and finally pulling into the sunset of Sacramento and the fog of San Francisco. I was entranced. Who had built those lonely little farmhouses in Nebraska and who lived there? Was that a real cowboy on a horse in the desert? What was it like to fish with just a dog for company beside a log shack in the mountains? After our arrival, the scenes grow disjointed and few, but distinct: our apartment on Willard Street, a few blocks up a steep hill from Golden Gate Park, where on any given afternoon, bands that I now know were the Grateful Dead, Janis Joplin and Big Brother and the Holding Company, along with many other hippie legends, made young people sway in a     and   human zoo.   nearly five decades. I have two children of my own, one in high school, the other in middle school. Their childhoods don’t much resemble mine at all. For one thing, they’ve lived in one city for most of their lives. They have also seen a lot more of the world than I had at age 7. But they had not yet seen what I’d seen at that age: the American continent unspooling in real time for 72 hours, not on television or in the movies, not glimpsed from 30, 000 feet above, but at eye level. And I wanted that imagery etched into their memories the way it is in mine. Last summer, I reserved a sleeper car and roomette (a   room with two seats that fold down to beds) on Amtrak’s California Zephyr. Together the berths would sleep five and set me back $2, 881. We would leave Union Station on one of the last days of June, a few days after school let out, as had I. My dad, divorced, remarried and pushing 80, was hale and hearty and game enough to come along with us, a living link to an episode in the history of “Frisco”  —   as he still calls it  —   and the Beats and the counterculture that my children know about as a footnote in their American history books. We boarded the train on a bright, breezy Chicago day, but the weather turned and the sky bloomed a threatening purple as we pulled out of Union Station and headed south and west, into the great green sea of early summer corn. As the train rocked from side to side, we made our way through all the cars toward the rear, and the sleeper cars, narrow walkways lined with utilitarian berths with metal doors. We checked out our new digs, the   roomette that my son and father would share, and the bedroom with its pullout couch where my husband and I would just fit, with a     for our daughter. There was a comfy chair by the window, an aluminum sink, clean white towels stowed in cabinets, and a small private toilet room that doubled as a shower. Everything was shipshape,   and extremely tidy. As we stowed our bags, our car’s attendant poked her head in the doorway to introduce herself and explain that the train might be running 31 hours late. Taking in our astonishment, she shook her head and added, “Didn’t they tell you?” Iowa, she said, was practically underwater from weeks of heavy rain, and chunks of track had been washed away. My husband and I looked at each other. For days, I’d been reminding my family to approach the trip as an adventure akin to taking the   Railway from Moscow to China. It appeared we were going to know what   rail travel felt like. On the Zephyr, long delays are not uncommon, but are mitigated by a   car with tables and soft swivel chairs from which the patient traveler may meditate on American scenery. We snagged a table as the train snaked past   suburban Illinois backyards and embankments with tiger lilies and wild daisies, finally leaving the city behind and entering the farmlands. The green monotony of the dripping corn was interrupted here and there by a tractor dealership or the back side of a small town, where laundry flapped near backyard   and asphalt roads angled off from the track and into a verdant oblivion. We played cards for a few hours, crossing the steaming Mississippi River in a kind of torpor. At some point, I dozed. When I opened my eyes, the vinous weeds of midsummer Iowa shrouding the tracks resembled the tropics. At sunset, we pulled into Ottumwa, Iowa, the first station stop at which we were allowed to get off the train and stretch our legs. In the last of the day’s soft pink light, we watched a conductor step out and give a dollar for a can of soda to a young disabled man who, we were told, waited for the train and that little gift every day. We ate our dinner in the dining car, with a white tablecloth, cloth napkins, real plates and silverware, consuming the first of nine surprisingly good meals, cooked up in the kitchen below. Then, as a full orange moon was rising over dark fields, we retired to our berths and tucked ourselves in. All was snug and cozy, a bit like a camper. We fell asleep to the gentle rocking of the train. Dawn cracked deep in Nebraska. The new day’s terrain was a subtle shift from Iowa and Illinois  —   a bit less green, more yellow, a little more rolling and much more desolate. The occasional dirt road led to the solitary farmhouse lined with old gnarled trees that looked as if they might have been planted as a shield against the howling prairie wind. We whizzed past silos, the backs of garages, irrigation lines, the occasional horse, with hardly a human in sight. We never noticed it happening, but soon the color scheme changed from cornfields and grass to almost no grass at all, and was dotted with   sagebrush guarded by prairie dogs. At Wiggins, Colo. elevation 4, 500 feet, we spied our first mountaintops, almost resembling clouds on the horizon. Somewhere along this stretch of track, our little Amtrak guide to the trip told us that we had passed Hastings, Neb. the town where   had been invented. The agrarian nation beyond the window frame ended abruptly on the outskirts of Denver, where acres of scaffolding and cranes, piles of concrete culvert piping and steel beams in rows testified to the building boom in the Mile High City. We rolled into Denver five hours late and were let out for 15 minutes. It was noon and already 100 degrees at that clear, cloudless altitude. We strolled the   mall around the station, then reboarded. The new conductor was more of an impresario than the last one. He pronounced “ ” dramatically, and would narrate our way over the most spectacular part of the trip, the one winding through the Rockies. The train stopped shortly after we got into the mountains because of what the conductor called a “heat slowdown,” tracks so overheated they risked buckling under the train. After several hours of chugging along at less than 15 miles an hour, we finally sped on into Moffat Tunnel, the first vast tunnel hammered out of the mountains, emerging after 15 minutes, now high and deep in the Rockies alongside rushing mountain streams, banked with little shacks. Sometimes people with their dogs and fishing poles waved at us. Here, halfway across the continent, I looked at my dad and my children, playing cards, and thought about how we three generations were watching the same America pass by yet seeing, each of us, a different country. Dad grew up during World War II, and his father, a World War I veteran, was a    patriot and neighborhood safety captain during Chicago’s blackout drills. His son, our father, was in open rebellion against his own parents by the 1960s over his nomadic, poetic lifestyle and opposition to the Vietnam War. I grew up in five different houses and apartments, wishing I had parents who owned a suburban   and a station wagon like all my friends. And though I gave my children a fairly stable life, they are    New Yorkers  —     little sophisticates. At this point, every seat in the observation car was taken. People were loathe to move, for fear of losing their optimal angle on the stunning scenery. Cameras came out, camaraderie prevailed and strangers shared stories. A medical student from Stockholm sitting beside me said she had boarded in Denver just to see this stretch of America and planned to get off the train that night. A woman from Florida was going across the country to visit her daughter in Seattle. “Of course you can fly, but when you fly you can’t see anything!” she said. Another rider was an Oklahoma lawyer, a devoted train buff whose grandfather had worked on the railroads. He planned to ride all the way to San Francisco and then reboard the next day and return to Chicago  —   a round trip he’d made many times already. Shafts of sunlight angled past the storm clouds over the Continental Divide as we approached the track’s highest point, 9, 239 feet elevation. The conductor occasionally took to the public address system to enthusiastically narrate what he called “our adventure. ” He pointed out Paul Newman’s remote and gorgeous Roundup River Ranch for disadvantaged children deep in the Rockies, told us the names of tunnels and gorges, and drew our attention to “Dead Man’s Curve,” a strip of road perched atop a cliff, at the bottom of which were half a dozen crumpled cars. Back in our sleeping berth as the moon slowly illuminated mountains and small towns, we had arrived at our 30th hour onboard, and we were not halfway to Frisco, but we had surrendered to the pace, and the delays, and had even begun to enjoy it. The kids had now played hourslong rounds of Polish Rummy with their grandfather, bantering and showing off their snark and cleverness to an appreciative audience of one. I stared out the window at the little houses and farms, imagining the lives of those inside. Lulled by the rolling   out the window, I became aware of a strange sensation that I hadn’t noticed at age 7, when life lay ahead, vaster than the continent. The experience of watching that much of the world go by, foot by foot, mile by mile, gives time a physical, visceral dimension. From my seat, I could feel the past being left behind. It hardly mattered whether we were going 20 miles an hour or 70. We were going somewhere, and that was all that mattered. The next morning, we opened our eyes to a purple bowl of mountains around Salt Lake City, and by breakfast we were zipping over the vast, white salt flats. The terrain greened again as Nevada blended into the Sierras. We soon entered another vista of plunging ravines, pine forests and lakes (including Donner Lake, named after the doomed pioneer party marooned here one winter who cannibalized their dead to survive). It was there we met a park ranger who happened to be traveling from Utah to Sacramento. He named the indigenous shrubs, manzanita and ceanothus told us about the red soil and shared tidbits of Western history. By now, our conductor had a bead on an actual arrival time  —   we would be in San Francisco only seven hours late, a fact that made us suspect that our attendant’s dire   delay warning in Chicago had been a brazen attempt to keep our expectations low. Great! Only seven hours late! We pulled into Sacramento and our first glorious California sunset, a sheet of horizontal oranges and reds silhouetting black water towers and   wires. In no time at all, we were at our final stop, bidding fond farewells to the train staff who had come to know the children by name. Around midnight, we were tooling through San Francisco in a cab toward our hotel. Any sense of excitement was dulled by the late hour and the long journey, and the kids were nodding off, but as we rode through empty downtown streets in the dark, the familiar smell of eucalyptus and the soft foggy Pacific air yanked me back 50 years. The next morning brought back a nearly forgotten memory: the ubiquitous hobos and junkies who populate San Francisco’s streets, and who panhandle much more aggressively than those in New York. While we ordered at a Starbucks on Market Street, the barista caught a man filling the inner pockets of his trench coat with bottles of orange juice. We took a city bus across town to check out  . The neighborhood is gentrified now in the era of Silicon Valley expensive, chic and almost touristy. Gone are the Diggers, the street theater group that gave away food and held up large, empty frames for people to step through to change their “Frame of Reference. ” We passed psychedelic murals, head shops, coffee shops,   and vintage emporiums and purveyors of exotic textiles from Kathmandu. But the hippie wares now come with hefty price tags. My father recognized only one store  —   an old vinyl record shop. At the end of Haight Street, we arrived at the entrance of Golden Gate Park, and a small playground where my dad reminisced about my eighth birthday party  —   an event I don’t remember  —   and how he realized only once he had brought 10 children to the spot that he didn’t know how to keep track of us. He recalled the famous bands, including the Grateful Dead, that used to play on the grassy hill nearby. I had another olfactory moment that transported me back to second grade  —   patchouli, incense, smoke and, again, eucalyptus wafting from an encampment of young men and women lounging on blankets in the grass, strumming guitars. Of course they asked us for money. My    daughter, weary from the long day and walk, and no stranger to the homeless in New York, could take it no longer. “I hate this city,” she said. Despite San Francisco’s many charms, this modern variation of the homeless flower children of the ’60s was beyond annoying to my   traveler. Holding her hand, I recognized her unease. It was exactly what I’d felt about the hippies a   ago, when I had wished my dad was more like the father in the Nancy Drew books I had begun to read in second grade  —   a lawyer in the fictional small town of River Heights. As I watched my children clambering on swings, I recalled Joan Didion’s horrifying scenes from San Francisco in her collection of essays, “Slouching Towards Bethlehem,” the   hippie kids, the    fed acid by derelict parents in what one described as “High Kindergarten. ” My parents didn’t do drugs and I did not recognize the smell wafting in the streets until someone lit up a joint in high school. Our mother was almost in sole charge of three small children, and while a poetic spirit herself, was never overly enamored of the Beat scene. She spent the San Francisco year pushing a    in a stroller around   hippies and up the steep hills. Eventually my parents divorced. My father now says he regrets our journey. He can’t really explain why he decided to chuck it all and head west. He remembers that, at the time, it just made sense. Our trip to that revolutionary place brought back a flood of memories of a gone world. The Summer of Love aimed at nothing less than the wholesale transformation of American society. In some ways, the flower children and their fellow travelers, like my parents, succeeded in fashioning a more tolerant America. In many other ways, they failed. But for the    child on the train, the journey toward the Summer of Love, and not the destination, was what changed everything.