The Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte, making his debut on Monday night on the season premiere of the ABC competition “Dancing With the Stars,” was rushed by at least one protester, causing a significant disturbance that sent the program to an abrupt commercial break. The Los Angeles Police Department said two men were detained by security guards for trespassing during the live broadcast and were handed over to the police. The men’s names had not been released late Monday night. “No one on set was touched at the time the incident occurred,” said Officer Mike Lopez, a police spokesman. An ABC spokeswoman confirmed that the disruption had taken place, saying, “An individual stormed the dance floor tonight and was immediately subdued and escorted out of the building. ” Pictures from the scene showed two men seated with their hands behind their backs wearing shirts that displayed Mr. Lochte’s name overlaid with the universal red “no” symbol. News reports citing witnesses at the show said several other protesters were wearing similar shirts in the audience. It was not immediately clear what had happened during the broadcast. One of the show’s judges, Carrie Ann Inaba, was delivering her assessment of the performance of Mr. Lochte and his partner, the dancer Cheryl Burke, when she suddenly cut her statement short, apparently in response to what was happening onstage. “Hey, back off!” Ms. Inaba shouted, as security guards appeared to rush past her. The chaos onstage was not shown on television, but in the aftermath, the camera cut to the show’s host, Tom Bergeron, who sent the show to commercial as an apparently flustered Mr. Lochte wiped sweat from his brow. Upon the show’s return from a long commercial break, Mr. Bergeron only hinted at what had happened. “We had to go to break because we had a little incident,” he said. “I would like to personally thank our security team for staying in shape. ” He asked Mr. Lochte, 32, who was still flushed, how he was feeling after witnessing “that kind of strong emotion. ” The swimmer responded that he was “a little hurt,” referring to his feelings rather than any physical injury. “So many feelings are going through my head right now,” he said. Though the  ’s motivation was not immediately clear, Mr. Lochte, a   Olympic medalist, caused an uproar during the final week of the Olympics when he claimed that he and three of his American teammates had been held up at gunpoint by men who claimed to be Brazilian police officers. The Brazilian police found that it was, for the most part, a fabricated story. Brazilian police investigators looking into the claim found that Mr. Lochte and his teammates had damaged property at a gas station bathroom after leaving a party, and that they had briefly been confronted by security guards with guns when they tried to leave the station without addressing the damage. Mr. Lochte ended up apologizing, and lost the support of several of his sponsors. He was suspended for 10 months from domestic and international swimming competition. It was announced in late August that he would appear on the 23rd season of “Dancing With the Stars,” along with other celebrity competitors, including another Olympian, the gymnast Laurie Hernandez. In an Instagram post after the show, Ms. Inaba, the judge, said, “We had a bit of a scary moment during tonight’s live taping of @dancingabc, but thanks to our security team and incredible staff at #DWTS, no one got hurt. ” For good measure, she added the hashtags “#dancingwiththestars,” “#security” and “#grateful. ”