Three and half years after the shooting that claimed 20 young students and six teachers at Sandy Hook Elementary, the town leaders of Newtown, Conn. along with a team of architects, led members of the media on a drizzly   morning walk around the rebuilt campus. The new Sandy Hook is a gleaming rural retreat  —   farther in the woods than the old building  —   an almost Romantic vision of streams and bridges. An uncommon amount of public money and energy has been invested in the new campus, and it shows. Designed with the help of the same security firm that consulted on the World Trade Center rebuilding, the Sandy Hook project is a uniquely contemporary piece of American architecture, a kind of   gothic: the first   campus in the United States to have been demolished and reimagined in direct response to a mass shooting. It is a reluctant but unavoidable statement project. On Sandy Hook’s media tour, guides offered the official story. Every design element, they said, “recalls” something from native ecology and local history. The building’s undulating facade, made of two kinds of hardwood  —   machiche and garapa  —   recalls the hills of the town as seen from afar. The three handmade weather vanes recall the region’s traditional architecture, and the base of the building, made of   fieldstone, recalls old New England masonry. The front lobby, with its   stained glass and matching kinetic leaf sculpture, recalls the New England autumn. What stood out most was the piece of local history that was pointedly not recalled in the design. The assembled journalists were curious to see something, anything, that recalled the people who were murdered on that site in 2012. But the closest the site itself came to memorialization were the building’s bulletproof windows. Because of this tension, the carefully choreographed tour was always just one small gesture or question away from veering awkwardly  . At one point, when the project architect directed our attention to the view from the window of one of the classrooms, I noticed the photographers in the room snapping pictures of the locks on the door. Midway through the tour, in the playground, a group of photographers descended on a brightly painted bench that had been dedicated to the memory of a Sandy Hook child and signed with the small handprints of his classmates. When a town official explained that this bench memorialized a boy who died this past year, from a medical condition unrelated to the 2012 shooting, the photographers immediately lowered their cameras and walked away. This craven need for photography was part of the reason town officials didn’t want a memorial on site. And yet the absence of any memorial seemed only to fuel this desire. After the tour ended, during the news conference, a TV reporter  —   concerned with getting a usable visual  —   asked the head of Newtown’s government, First Selectman E. Patricia Llodra, if there were “any subtle gestures to memorialize the victims that we might have missed. ” Llodra was visibly agitated by the question. She gave a terse reply: “No. ” But the design of the site told a more nuanced story. The new school was built on the grounds of the old one, but in such a way that it didn’t disturb the small area  —   formerly two classrooms, a lobby and the main hallway  —   where the shooting occurred. That patch was left conspicuously untouched, but it is not exactly a memorial. This contradiction gets at the problem inherent in a site like Sandy Hook: How do we remember the murdered, where they were murdered, without that history defining the site? (How do we tell that history, especially, when the memory is weighted with shame?) And if we don’t explicitly speak of the victims at the site, does it mean we are choosing to forget the history of the place? No other American community has gone as far as Newtown in reimagining a space where a school shooting happened. In America today, the words “Sandy Hook” have become a shorthand not just for the shooting but for the culture of shameful inaction that has taken hold in the wake of the shooting. But in Newtown, “Sandy Hook” still refers to the largest village within the town and to its school. Local people refer to the shooting as “ ” or “December 14th. ” They hope to shift the burden of memory to a day, not a place. Is it possible? A few weeks after the shootings, in January 2013, Newtown convened an open meeting with a single agenda item: what to do with the school building. In the packed Newtown High School auditorium, the moderator asked the crowd to refrain from applauding, a request he would repeat again and again that night, until he relented to the will of the people. One after another, residents walked up to the microphone and delivered anguished statements in favor of preserving the building or demolishing it. In many instances, Sandy Hook parents, mostly mothers, relayed the opinions of their young children. “My children have one wish,” one mother testified. “Everything was taken from them. Everything. They lost way too much.   …     My son was right there. It is his school. It is his school. It is not Newtown’s school. It is not the world’s school. It is his school. It is their school.   …     They need to go back. We cannot teach our children to put the lid on stuff and just forget and pretend it never happened. It happened. They were there. They know best.   …     I’m not prepared to teach my children to run and hide. Because that’s what you’re asking by tearing down Sandy Hook: You’re asking them to hide. He took too much. He cannot take this too. ” After about 40 minutes of speeches, a young mother recounted an exchange with her son, a second grader. Although the boy was excited that his temporary school had stairs for him to climb, he wanted to return to Sandy Hook Elementary, the building he loved. He asked his mother when he could go back. Her reply: “Right now we can’t go back. It’s broken. We have to figure out if we can fix it  —   and we don’t know if we can fix it. ” According to the cultural geographer Kenneth Foote, the ability to openly confront death is critical to the public process of returning a site like Sandy Hook to regular civic use. In his book, “Shadowed Ground: America’s Landscapes of Violence and Tragedy,” Foote observes that after mass murders, especially when the violence had been perpetrated by a member of the victimized community, feelings of shame or guilt are a prime motivator in our ambivalent attitudes toward a site. In particularly troubling cases, in which the violent acts are, as we say, “unspeakable,” a kind of silence indeed prevails around the space. The initial impulse is to obliterate the site and to leave it unmarked, spoken of only in whispers, or not at all. There are, in theory, alternative ways of dealing with this problem. Some cultures, Foote writes, “have rituals that serve to lift stigma, guilt or blame, ceremonies that symbolically cleanse people and places and allow them to return to full participation in    life. ” But, he writes, “this is not true of American society there is no easy way for stigmatized sites to be returned to use. ” Newtown struggled with exactly that problem: how to return the Sandy Hook site back into use without the help of an   ritual. Instead, Newtown got a consultant. In 2013, Randall Bell was brought in by a bank to advise on the question of whether to demolish the house where Adam Lanza, the shooter, had lived with his mother, and where he murdered her before setting out for Sandy Hook. Bell specializes in the field of stigmatized property, and he has consulted on cases from the home where Charles Manson’s followers murdered Sharon Tate to the mansion where Heaven’s Gate cult members committed mass suicide. For his Newtown consultation, Bell visited Colorado to investigate the fates of the homes where the two Columbine school shooters once lived. Neither was razed after the crime. Such demolitions are, Bell told me, exceedingly rare. On the day of his visit, roughly 15 years after the shootings, he discovered that one of the houses was hosting a neighborhood party to watch a Denver Broncos game. “It was just a random look, of course,” Bell told me by phone, “but it revealed a lot to me. The house was now just a normal place, part of the fabric of the community. ” This observation, which he shared with Newtown leaders, confirmed his belief that demolishing a structure doesn’t change the public’s view  —   people will continue to associate the plot of land itself with an infamous event. The only thing that removes stigma from a site is, in Bell’s experience, the passage of time. He delivered his findings to the bank that owned Lanza’s house, the first selectman and the police chief. Despite Bell’s input, Newtown decided to take the unusual step of demolishing the killer’s house and letting the ground grow wild. But the actions taken at the school site were even more extraordinary: The town decided to demolish an entire   campus, then carefully erase of every last piece of rubble. Town authorities were anxious to control the physical remains of Sandy Hook, knowing that some piece of it could end up in the hands of profiteers and the conspiracy theorists who believe the shooting never happened, that it was an orchestrated hoax perpetrated by the government. Demolition workers were ordered to sign a nondisclosure agreement that barred them from photographing or discussing their work at the site. According to this document, they were not permitted to remove “any dirt, bricks, tiles, hardware, windows, glass, doorknobs, doors. ” The debris was removed to an undisclosed location and destroyed. In May of last year, I visited the town’s municipal offices to speak with the first selectman. Llodra is a friendly,   Connecticut Republican who uses the word “persons” in conversation and speaks in rapid, decisive and   statements. She told me that she had studied the responses of other   communities but concluded that each case was culturally distinct. And the victims at Sandy Hook were so young, and there were so many of them. Newtown, in her view, was on its own. This concept became axiomatic for the 28 local leaders of a task force that set policy for the project back in 2013. Llodra returned to this theme in those   meetings, whenever doubts crept in and threatened her consensus. “There’s no precedent for what we’re doing,” she said at one point during a meeting in April 2013. “We have no history. ” Having no history meant that Newtown was operating in scary, uncharted territory, but it also gave them license to be bold. The initiative to remove all traces of the building, with the legal backing of a nondisclosure contract, was one among these unprecedented actions. “One of our biggest fears,” Llodra told me, “was that a brick from Sandy Hook would end up on eBay. We just couldn’t have that. ” There is an entire literature that explores the reasons a brick from a place like Sandy Hook might end up on eBay. Some scholars believe that because our culture considers it tasteless and morbid to talk openly about death, people who seek answers to these basic questions often go about it in tasteless and morbid ways. The impulse to handle the material of death has a socially acceptable counterpart: the creation of “spontaneous memorials,” the laying of flowers, teddy bears, letters and candles, which is one of contemporary society’s most conspicuous folk customs. Often a spontaneous memorial begins when regular citizens create a shrine as close as physically possible, usually as close as police barricades will permit, to the actual scene of the violence  —   and spreads outward from there. This pattern was followed in Newtown, and it elicited another of the town’s unusual responses: Llodra eventually ordered the removal of the folk memorials (which is not unusual) and had them ground into a fine powder (which is quite unusual). She placed this “sacred soil,” as she calls it, in safekeeping, where it remains. From the start, memorialization on site was a deeply fraught proposition for the powers that be from where they stood, Sandy Hook  —   the site  —   posed a threat to the town. The final meetings of the Sandy Hook task force in May 2013 were taken up by conversations about whether Newtown was, as the data seemed to suggest, experiencing a population decline. The committee heard the emphatic testimony of a young father, who relocated to Newtown from Chicago two years earlier. He wanted his leaders to understand that young families, like his, would find it “unconscionable” to drop their children off at a building where 26 people were murdered. “The reason we moved here, to Sandy Hook, was because of the school,” he said. If the implication wasn’t clear, the superintendent made it plain to town authorities at the next meeting: If Newtown had any chance of staying attractive to prospective young professional families in a competitive marketplace, the school system was the key. The building needed to go. The town set out to discover a new plot of land and start over. They studied more than 40 sites. Realistic alternatives were few, they learned a second site adjacent to the old plot was kept on the table simply for the sake of conversation. That conversation, as it turned out, was illuminating. The proposed second site happened to sit at an elevation that would give students and faculty a clear view over the abandoned Sandy Hook site, including, for some period of time, a view of the old building itself. The members of the task force had shuddered at the proposal. All agreed that this “pretty horrible unintended consequence,” as one put it, was too grim to consider. “I just don’t know that we gain enough emotional barriers to invest in that site,” Llodra said. The concept of erecting “emotional barriers” had perhaps always been the goal of the Sandy Hook rebuild project. But now the time had come to define what these were. When the task force was asked to imagine the view from the proposed second site, something important came into focus: It turned out that seeing the space from afar would be somehow more devastating than reinhabiting it. It was more plausible to create emotional barriers at the old site. None of this made the inevitable decision any easier. Even as the task force neared its vote, after many hours of procedural fussing and technical deliberations about traffic patterns, Brian Engel took the microphone. Engel’s    daughter, Olivia, was killed at Sandy Hook his son would soon be entering kindergarten at the school. “We’d like it to be   …     at a new location,” he said, his voice cracking, “and not at the location where [Olivia] was killed. Our family has not asked for anything since December 14th, except that the building at 12 Dickinson be razed and that the new Sandy Hook school be located at a new location. ” That same night, one of the   members testified: “To me, that is always going to be a site where 26 people were murdered. ” And at the next meeting, she voted to return the school to that site. All 28 members of the task force did. In the end, the creation of “emotional barriers” took the form of compromises. One came in the form of displacing a future official memorial far from the site. The town hasn’t yet identified a spot for a permanent Sandy Hook memorial, but they are adamant that it won’t be located at the Sandy Hook site, nor across from the school, as was done with Columbine, where a   official memorial resides on a hill overlooking the school building. Nor will it be in the center of town, where the Newtown war monuments are. The future Sandy Hook Elementary memorial will most likely live in a remote spot where a visitor might sit quietly, alone in the woods, and reflect. But the decision for a remote memorial didn’t directly resolve the problem of the site itself. Newtown decided to reorient the driveway to the school, the place where parents and emergency medical workers lived out the horror of that day. The community also decided to avoid building on the footprint of the site of the shooting: the two   classrooms, lobby and hallway near the school’s entrance. By defining the “sacred ground” of Sandy Hook as this smaller footprint, instead of the entire site, the people of Newtown could return to the old site but avoid violating its sacredness. Here again, Columbine offers a useful point of comparison. There, the community did not demolish the school but redesigned it specifically to address the problem of endlessly seeing murder at the site. The renovated Columbine, centered on a giant mural suspended from the ceiling of the cafeteria, was an attempt to pull the gaze away from the violence of that day in the past. “We wanted heads to be lifted, not hung, wondering: Where did that child die?” said Dawn Anna Townsend, whose daughter was murdered in the school’s library, at the ceremony that inaugurated the new space. In order to transform their gaze, the community decided that they had to   the traumatized space itself and find a new way to look. But in Newtown, they didn’t feel they could look again, and so they eradicated it and built a fence. I happened to discover it only by accident, in early photos of the construction site. Late in 2013, the site had been wiped clean not a shred of the former Sandy Hook building existed. During that first phase of construction, the site was basically a big empty clearing in the woods and two fences: the perimeter fence for the entire site, and inscribed within it, a green square fence. It really did resemble a kind of temple space, with nested zones of inviolability: Within the perimeter fence, only those who had signed the solemn oath (of nondisclosure) could enter, and into the inner space, nobody was permitted. Through that first winter, the fence remained there, and the snow that collected within it sat soft and untouched. And a fence remained there, protecting the ground, late into the construction project, even after the new building was nearly complete. This small enclosed piece of land marked the spot where the sacrilege of murder and the sacredness of memory lived in perpetual unhappy paradox, the place where an event whose meaning, if there is one, is so appalling and inaccessible to us, all we can do is put a fence around where it happened and declare it taboo. This fence, a literal “emotional barrier,” seemed to be the ritual object that allowed Newtown to preserve its most delicately unresolved past, while the rest of site was thrown into the upheaval of construction for the future. But maybe I was wrong. Perhaps it was just a regular old fence. When I mentioned it to the powers that be, the reactions I encountered seemed to confirm that the fence held a powerful significance to its builders. The architects refused to reply to my questions and directed me to the first selectman’s office. Llodra’s answer was even more telling. She would not confirm or deny the meaning of the fence. And she told me that if I planned to even mention the existence of the fence in this story, she would cease to cooperate with me. This could be regarded as a sign of denial. I don’t think it is. I don’t believe the efforts at nondisclosure, for example, were part of an attempt to not see, but rather an effort to see with eyes closed. During that initial meeting in January 2013, First Selectman Llodra reported to the assembled parents on conversations she’d had with state and federal agencies. Based on these discussions, she assured her constituents that Newtown would receive a great deal of financial support for any construction project they might propose. The question Llodra had posed to the state powers was, in her words, “How big can our dream be?” It struck me as an odd way to describe a project with such a horrific impetus. But maybe the new Sandy Hook really was a kind of dream, the playing out of a fantasy that preoccupies survivors of violence: the painful desire for a redo, so that, this time, trauma might be prevented. By July of this year, when I visited the school on media day, the fence was gone, and the ground it once contained was now a mound of earth, a memorial in everything but name. I discovered that day that Newtown’s official policy of silence has almost entirely succeeded. I didn’t see any of the dozens of photographers take pictures of the mound. I watched, and winced, as one photographer set up his tripod directly on top of it, to get a better angle of the new building. The reporter at the news conference who asked about memorials apparently didn’t realize that a special plot of land was visible through a window only a few feet behind her. This official silence prevailed until a man named Neil Heslin made a pilgrimage to the site. His son, Jesse Lewis, was murdered at Sandy Hook, somewhere on that plot, in what used to be his   classroom. Heslin told a reporter that he had opposed the project to rebuild at the site, and, having been overruled, decided he wanted the ground clearly marked. He had brought Jesse’s backpack with him, and, holding it aloft, he knelt down on the mound for a photo.