There can be days in this presidential campaign, if not weeks or months or maybe the entire thing, where you find yourself completely lost in dueling or blurry realities. It’s easy to get caught up in whatever is dominating a given moment. Everything gets so big and loud, and the candidates  —   famous to begin with  —   cease to even exist as human beings in front of you. Early this month, I went to Toledo, Ohio, to meet with Hillary Clinton, to sit down with her for a while and take the measure of her ordeal. It was five weeks before an unnervingly   Election Day. Every campaign produces candidates declaring that “the most important election of our lifetimes” is at hand. Usually this is true only for the person running (no doubt 2012 was the most important election of Mitt Romney’s lifetime). But this year’s stakes feel legitimate. This is not only for the milestone that Clinton’s election would achieve, and all the cultural Rorschach tests, gender dynamics and political scar tissue embedded within. It’s because of Donald Trump, an astonishing figure unlike any who has ever come close to assuming power in this country. “Near existential” is how Tim Kaine recently described this campaign, and it did not come off as complete hyperbole. Clinton had a rally scheduled in a   section of Toledo, the northwest Ohio city that ranked as the   economically distressed of the nation’s 100 largest. It is home to many of the struggling white   men who have made Ohio such tough terrain for Clinton and surprisingly fertile for her billionaire opponent. Clinton has trailed consistently in polls here, even though Barack Obama carried Ohio twice. I drove through town, passing block after block checkered with Trump signs, listening to screed after screed on talk radio about the malevolence of Obama and Clinton, and it sent me into one of those   vortexes where I began to wonder if any Ohioans would be voting for Clinton at all. At the same time, we were in the midst of a stretch in which journalists and political “professionals” had concluded that Trump was in a death spiral. Since tanking in the first debate at Hofstra University a week earlier, the blustering mogul had endured  —   or rather perpetuated  —   a series of   that included a   Twitter assault on a Latina beauty queen (one of those things you never thought you’d write during a presidential campaign, and yet it barely registers a blink) a few pages of his 1995 tax return finding its way to The New York Times and the ensuing revelation that Trump had declared a $916 million loss, which could have enabled him to avoid paying 18 years’ worth of federal taxes. By the time this article went to press, Trump was facing a blizzard of new revulsion over a 2005 video obtained by The Washington Post in which the candidate is heard making lewd and lecherous claims about his treatment of women to the television host Billy Bush. Scores of   Republicans withdrew their support, and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan said he was finished defending Trump and would instead focus on House and Senate races. The G. O. P. seemed as close to the brink of an   civil war as any major party has been in decades, especially this close to an election. Trump had plummeted in polls nationwide and in battleground states in the days after the first debate at Hofstra, with the exception of Ohio, where a poll published on the day of the Toledo rally by Quinnipiac University showed Trump leading Clinton by five points  —   the only state to show Trump gaining  . After Clinton’s event at an old train station, I was escorted up to an office where she was finishing an interview for “Good Luck America,” a political news show on Snapchat. The waiting area was arrayed with cushioned chairs, tables and reception desks. It felt like a doctor’s office. I took a seat next to Dan Schwerin, Clinton’s speechwriter, and Brian Fallon, the campaign’s national spokesman. Aides kept shuttling in and out of the conference room that housed “H. R. C. ,” a longstanding shorthand for the candidate in memos that over time has graduated to a spoken identifier (“What does H. R. C. think? ”). As had been the case since the first debate, the mood in the Clinton orbit was buoyant. Fallon mentioned that he wished the bad Trump stories could be spread out a little bit, allowing voters to hold and fully savor each in turn, rather than being   them day after day. After a few minutes, another press aide, Nick Merrill, popped his head out of the conference room,   in my direction and said the doctor would see me now. I had not talked to Clinton in person for more than a year. She was warm and animated, but her eyes hung heavy, and she appeared somewhat worn down, no doubt still feeling some lingering aftereffects of pneumonia. In the same way that presidents seem to age eight years for every four they spend in the White House, you can see the toll this campaign has taken  —   the surprising challenge of Bernie Sanders, the email story and F. B. I. investigation and Trump’s    pelting. She sat down next to me at a conference table, slumped back in a swiveling desk chair. Her contempt for Trump was clear from the outset, far more intense than it appears even in speeches and debates. It went well beyond the competitive fervor with which one   candidate tends to speak about another. “It does feel much different,” she said. “If I were running against another Republican, we’d have our disagreements, don’t get me wrong, and I would be trying to make my case vigorously. But I wouldn’t go to bed at night with a knot in the pit of my stomach. ” She enunciated her T’s (“knoT in the piT”) as if she were spitting out the words. “I had the opportunity to meet a lot of presidents over the years,” Clinton said. “I’ve had my disagreements with them. But I never doubted for a nanosecond that they got up every morning trying to figure out what was the best path forward for the country. ” At least, she added, “they were serious people. ” That sense of high moral purpose is evident throughout the campaign. Whenever I visited Clinton’s campaign headquarters in Brooklyn, the youthful energy and confidence of the staff was leavened by a detectably uneasy undercurrent. Either they are helping elect the first female president, assuring her place in history, or they will be the people who lost to Donald Trump. “There is a dread that people have about what it would actually mean if he were to actually be elected,” John Podesta, Clinton’s campaign chairman, told me. As much as Obama’s team and supporters wanted to see the president   in 2012, Podesta said, “they didn’t feel that the country was going to fall into the abyss if Mitt Romney was president of the United States. ” Given that, I asked Clinton if Nov. 8 scared her. “No, not really,” she said slowly. I clarified that I was talking about the prospect of her losing. She knew what I was talking about. “I’m not going to lose,” she said. She shot me a knowing grin. This is the standard politician’s answer when asked to contemplate defeat  —   even candidates who are down 30 points  —   but Clinton seemed to mean it. “I don’t go there,” Clinton said. Trump is such an unnerving figure, partly because in getting this far he has already defied so many predictions, largely on the strength of his ability to command the media fun house. This has been the enduring, defining characteristic of the race. His mania for being seen and heard and mentioned has proved exceptionally well suited, maybe codependent, to the current age. To Trump, ubiquity is power and success, and at least until recently that equation held true. His ability during the Republican primaries to talk, tweet or insult his way into the middle of seemingly every news cycle reinforced the notion that he was simply bigger than the rest of those politicians. He believed that the extent of most people’s discernment was what they chose to fill their screens with  —   that it almost didn’t matter if it made them think the worst of him or, say, Mexicans. He barely bothered with policy papers or major “issue” speeches or   discussions. Cable would never have covered that anyway, certainly not live. People would grow bored. He was always talking about how boring Clinton was, especially her substantive   debates against Sanders. For Trump, boring is the worst. It is disgusting. It is the  . Trump coined a grand and nostalgic slogan, “Make America Great Again,” easily the most recognizable campaign calling card since “Yes We Can. ” When I talked to Clinton, she told me how pleased she was with her own slogan, “Stronger Together. ” She was especially proud of how it came out of a deliberative process: grinding out ideas and really figuring out what it was she wanted to stand for. I mentioned that it hardly rolls off the tongue, sounding more like a CrossFit slogan than a rallying cry. “It’s clunky, but it works,” I said, and she nodded. “It works,” she said with a hint of defensiveness, “in part because I really believe it, O. K.? How do we get people to overcome these barriers?” Clinton has worked closely with (and married) some of the most gifted orators and “explainers” of recent political memory  —   Obama, Joe Biden and Bill. All three are deft at relaying big themes and small narratives alike. Clinton, for her part, is stubbornly cautious and on script, banking on the notion that   concerns of voters and tangible benefits of her proposals will win out in the end over spectacle. “At the end of the day, people are going to vote on Nov. 8,” she told me. “And like it or not, issues will actually be part of governing. ” Her approach doesn’t make for the best TV, but her years in public life have made her wary of any exposure, especially when she does not control it. Scrutiny is dangerous, and disclosure is rarely rewarded. If Trump views the media as a vehicle to express his id, Clinton is all superego. She has been happy to leave that field to him, even if it makes her boring, or even ignored. The Clintons have fully inhabited the   revolutions of the last four decades. Bill Clinton’s campaigns for governor of Arkansas were relatively simple,   and stable productions, conducted via traditional television, news radio and print outlets. But from the moment the Clintons went national in the early 1990s, their ambitions have met   with a series of transformative new media adversaries. His presidency was the first to suffer a sustained assault from conservative talk radio, particularly in its first term, when Rush Limbaugh was establishing himself as the most influential radio host of his generation. The Monica Lewinsky scandal and Clinton’s subsequent impeachment were driven heavily by revelations on a new website, the Drudge Report, and covered exhaustively by the emerging force that cable news was becoming. Hillary Clinton’s first presidential run in 2008 was badly outmaneuvered by Obama’s campaign in the race to master the internet as an organizing, outreach and   tool. Her current enterprise has been deft in using   tools as a way of reaching supporters, disseminating opposition research and occasionally engaging with Trump. But for the most part, the dizzying new level of scrutiny and saturation made possible by the digital age only made Clinton retreat further into caution. When I spoke to her over the Fourth of July weekend in 2015 in New Hampshire, Clinton had clearly been thinking about the impact of new technology on human development and how people communicate. We were talking about mental health and substance abuse, two issues that a lot of voters in New Hampshire were raising with her. She described a meeting with a group that had developed online   programs. One woman predicted to her that a big challenge in mental health over the coming years would be “how to undo the damage that the internet has caused young people. ” It’s striking to me now that Clinton’s main interest in these new media technologies was not so much as a political tool but as a policy concern for the citizenry. Clinton described “the insidious, pernicious comparisons” that online communities can foster in young people, and the temptation to “put out an identity online before it’s ever formed” in real life. Thinking about this exchange 14 months later, after what feels like a generation’s worth of lines crossed and taboos shattered, her concern seems strangely prescient. Trump, of course, both shares and feeds his audience’s addiction to stimuli and entertainment. Early in the campaign, during the Republican primaries, he would pretty much say yes to anyone who wanted to put him on TV or in a magazine. He was indefatigable in reaching out to reporters, lobbying for coverage. He can be undeniably fun and, to a point, seductive. My first encounter with Trump, more than a year ago, came in an unsolicited note that said simply, “Mark, It’s Time for a Cover!” Clinton, on the other hand, proceeds with immense caution. When we first spoke last July, she agreed to our meeting on the maddening proposition that we do it off the record. I went along, reluctantly, as it was my only entree (she agreed later to put parts of it on the record). Her hesitancy to give interviews and allow media access has barely subsided over time. When I asked Robby Mook, Clinton’s    campaign manager, how his candidate had adapted to the insane rules of engagement that this campaign has “normalized” (to use a 2016 buzzword) he essentially said that she hadn’t. “Hillary approaches this campaign through the portal of wanting to fix problems,” Mook told me. “And so politics for her is, first and foremost, not an exercise in communicating to the masses. It’s about finding the right solution and then going after it. ” Clinton is, in other words, the  . She is not a political novelty, nor is she especially entertaining as a media personality or in front of big groups. She and her campaign know this and have been smart about not pretending otherwise. Trump’s big shadow and outrage machine have even allowed her to become slightly and perhaps blissfully lost to fade, if not into obscurity, at least into a background that cuts the glare of the scrutiny to which she has been so averse. In a sense, she is daring voters to study her positions, listen to her answers and not look to her for entertainment or emotional impact. In 2016, that can seem almost risky. “I’ve laid out all of these policies, and look, people kind of made fun of it, because ‘Oh, there she goes with another policy,’’u2009” Clinton told me. “I’m trying to run a campaign that presents an alternative case. ” It’s telling that a candidate with the name recognition, résumé and baggage of Hillary Clinton is nonetheless left to present her campaign as an “alternative case. ” “My husband and I laugh sometimes about the ‘Antiques Roadshow,’’u2009” Clinton told me, referring to the PBS show about antique appraisers that she watches devoutly. “Sometimes we feel like we are the antiques on a roadshow when it comes to politics. ” I started traveling with the Clinton campaign this Labor Day, supposedly the “unofficial kickoff to the general election. ” In every election season, political geniuses are always identifying seemingly random events, like some cattle call in Iowa, and declaring them to be “unofficial kickoffs. ” But Labor Day had the genuine feel that a switch was being flipped inside the Clinton campaign. It was unveiling a new plane, a white and powder blue 737 that slightly resembled the old Pan Am jets. A “Stronger Together” slogan adorned the side, with a   “H” logo painted across the tail. Consigned to the back was the traveling press. Like most   corps, Clinton’s comprises an aggressive bunch of mostly   reporters, camera people and network “embeds” charged with tracking everything remotely newsworthy that a candidate might do on a given day. They are descendants of the “Boys on the Bus” generation, whom Tim Crouse made famous in his unforgiving account of “pack journalism” as it existed during the 1972 presidential campaign. Today’s pack is distinct in fundamental ways: There are many more women and minorities in the group (as in, there are more than almost none) there is considerably less drinking, and no one smokes and while reporters 40 years ago paid their dues and scrapped like hell to cover a presidential campaign, many of today’s cast members are in their first journalism jobs. They are competitive but collegial. Their tech savviness is astounding (actually it made me scared). It’s easy to see why a   enterprise like the Clinton campaign might be terrified of an army of smartphone dynamos who are just dying to tweet out what color cough drops the candidate was popping (Halls, yellow). By Sept. 5, Clinton had gone 275 consecutive days without holding a news conference. With the campaign now unofficially kicked off, it was time for her to tend to this pesky constituency. Shortly before the plane left Westchester County in New York for Cleveland, where she would be holding a Labor Day rally, Clinton made her way to the press section in the rear of the plane. Forty or so reporters maneuvered themselves over chairs, armrests and one another to capture this “casual” hello for posterity. “I was just waiting for this moment,” she said, deploying the kind of slightly nervous icebreaker you might use on a doctor before a colonoscopy. “I’m thrilled,” she continued. “No, really. I wanted to welcome you onto the plane. I think it’s pretty cool, don’t you?” When no one spoke up to answer, the candidate jumped in herself. “You’re supposed to say yes,” she said. The Labor Day rally took place in a mostly   neighborhood of Cleveland, where Clinton was joined by her running mate, Tim Kaine. He spoke for a few minutes, and then Clinton came out to wish everyone a happy Labor Day. “We were trying to figure out where we could be,” Clinton said. “And we all said, ‘Let’s go to Cleveland! ’’u2009” It went downhill from there. Clinton unleashed a few coughs between sentences, which soon degenerated into a   fit. Clinton tried to continue her speech, gamely if not wisely in hindsight, Kaine should have grabbed the mike for a few minutes while Clinton recovered. She popped lozenges and gulped water. In a different political climate, some pundit might identify the coughing fit as potentially “humanizing” or, at worst, “bad optics. ” But 2016 is not much for humanity. You could sense dread in the crowd  —   and see cringing eyes among the Clinton staff  —   over what would become of this moment. This is your brain on Trump. He had been suggesting for weeks that Clinton was not in good health, a conceit stoked by a Greek chorus on the internet and a few   “medical experts” on cable (paging Dr. Giuliani). The coughing fit was all over TV that afternoon and inspired a screaming Drudge headline about Clinton’s “violent coughing fit. ” Clinton’s trachea cleared well enough for her to get through the Cleveland speech. What had become clear in this new phase of the race was that she would be devoting big parts of her events to ridiculing Trump more methodically than she had before. But Trump, though a rich target, is also a tricky foil. People inside the Clinton orbit mourn the familiar shirts and skins of going up against a more conventional Republican nominee. They dealt in familiar Republican themes and operated within certain boundaries. You hear a surprising amount of Romney nostalgia: Several Clinton aides I spoke to brought him up in almost wistful terms, as well as John McCain and George W. Bush. They are now fondly recalled as familiar predators in the political habitat, like the characters from that old cartoon “Ralph Wolf and Sam Sheepdog. ” Ralph and Sam show up to work, punch the clock and greet each other amiably before starting their daily game  —   Ralph trying to corral sheep while Sam thwarts him. Each episode ends with the adversaries punching out their timecards and bidding farewell to each other until the next installment. It goes without saying that many people are supporting Trump because they’re tired of Ralph and Sam and all the same old cartoon animals. They’re ready for a bigger, badder wolf to deport all the sheep and then slap his name in gold on the side of the barn. They’re dying to watch that show. Back on Hill Force One, Clinton made another visit to the press cabin, this time for an official “gaggle”  —   or did it count as a news conference, which would officially end her   drought? This set off a debate among the press corps and campaign, until eventually it was agreed upon that yes, this counted as a formal “availability” session with the press, or “avail,” as it is known in the bubble. Breaking news: drought over. Clinton revealed in the session that she had increased her intake of antihistamine. She spoke in greater depth about her allergies, which prompted a pointed   question (“Madam Secretary, is it pollen? ”) a broader one about whether she was concerned about all the   conspiracy theories (“There are so many, I’ve lost track”) and another about whether she thought these health rumors were sexist (“Hmm, interesting”). Whenever she is asked questions that touch on possible sexism and double standards, Clinton tends to assume a slow, sarcastic and vaguely disdainful voice. She declared the topic “interesting” she would “leave it to others” to determine. On whether she is being treated differently as a female candidate, Clinton suggested that it would be a great topic, in the future, for “a lot of Ph. D. theses and popular journalism writing. ” She then wrapped things up, disappeared behind her curtain and left us to our “popular journalism writing. ” The flight back to Westchester was marred by a   incident. A few of the reporters in the back started engaging in an old traveling   high jinks of rolling an orange up the aisle in an attempt to reach the candidate’s seat. The tradition dates at least to the Reagan years, and supposedly counted Nancy as a fan. In some iterations, the reporters would write out a question on the orange that the candidate might reward with an answer. This particular evening, the appointed citrus was a clementine, and a young TV embed scrawled out the question: Would Clinton rather have dinner with Trump or Vladimir Putin? After a few failed rolls, the fruit suffered a violent collision with a seat leg that resulted in a citrus explosion all over my laptop. Finally, one reporter successfully propelled the clementine into the candidate’s sanctum up front. A few minutes later, it came back with “Putin” circled. Juicy. Next stop, Twitter: “Clinton Prefers Putin as Dining Partner to Trump. ” But wait a minute. The Clinton people thought this clementine bowling was off the record. Citrus is classified! An argument ensued. Varun Anand, an affable young campaign aide assigned to “wrangle” the traveling press corps, looked stricken. He engaged in a somewhat plaintive discussion behind me with Monica Alba, a campaign reporter for NBC (“Varun, you have no case,” she said). Anand then summoned some muscle in the person of the more senior press babysitter, Nick Merrill, who strolled back unto the breach. “O. K. so I was back here a few minutes ago, and everyone was laughing and throwing an orange around,” Merrill said, assessing the situation. “And now I come back again, and suddenly everyone is really tense. ” Correct. In any case, Merrill clarified that the clementine had not actually reached Clinton, but rather he picked it up first and read the question aloud. To which Clinton remarked that she had once eaten dinner with Putin. Merrill then circled “Putin” and rolled back the clementine. Everyone tweeted out Merrill’s clarification. The tension lifted Merrill headed back to the front cabin and, as he passed my seat, said, “I can’t wait to read four paragraphs of this stupidity in your magazine story. ” Clinton recently told a rally crowd in North Carolina that her many years in politics had taken a toll on her. “I’ve built up some defenses,” she said, in a line that was, for her,  . “When it comes to public service,” she said, “I’m better at the service part than the public part. ” Clinton has thought a great deal about the isolation that public life can foster. This can even be exacerbated by new technology tools  —   like smartphones  —   that can theoretically nurture connections but can also depersonalize encounters between citizens and public figures. Outside her plane after a speech in Tampa, Fla. a few days earlier, Clinton stopped for a few minutes under a wing to chat and take pictures with the photographers in her press entourage. This produced a classic     scene: Clinton posing for pictures with the photographers who normally photograph her, while the rest of her media contingent stood along the stairs photographing her posing for photos with her photographers. In her conversation with the photographers, Clinton talked about how the phenomenon of “selfies” has transformed her encounters with voters. She was always adept at drawing quick connections with people she met on rope lines. Even in the briefest of exchanges, they would tell her their stories. I had observed Clinton in many rope lines over the years, and I can attest that she’s effective in those settings, though not at the level of her   demon of a husband. I watched her during the Democratic primaries in 2008 as she greeted a crowd of voters in Charleston, W. Va. One woman described to Clinton a litany of her life’s struggles in the space of a few seconds (her husband’s diabetes, their lack of health insurance) the candidate nodded through squinted eyes, signed an autograph on a napkin and hugged the woman, who walked away in tears. “I got a lot out of these short meetings, holding somebody’s hand, having somebody tell me about their problems, addiction, losing a job,” Clinton told me when I spoke to her in Toledo. “I thought of it like an ongoing educational experience. ” She misses that, she said, because now such encounters are driven by one   goal: the selfie. “It’s a loss,” Clinton said. She understands why people want selfies. “It makes my time at the event with them real. Put it on Facebook, and show it to everyone who follows them on Instagram, everyone they can reach. ” She prefers the handwritten notes she used to get a lot more of, everything from little scraps of paper to   stacks of  . They all bore the script of individual Americans wanting to tell her about their lives. Clinton told me a story from when Chelsea was 5. She heard her parents discussing Reagan’s   visit in May 1985 to a German military cemetery at Bitburg, the final resting home of many Nazi soldiers. Chelsea, whose favorite movie then was “The Sound of Music,” asked for her mother’s help in writing a letter to the White House. “Dear President Reagan,” it began. “I’ve seen ‘The Sound of Music.’ The Nazis are not nice people. Don’t go to their cemetery. ” Reagan went to Bitburg Chelsea received no response. After Bill Clinton was elected, his wife vowed that every letter sent to the White House, especially from a child, would receive a response. I have no idea how well they actually executed on this, but Clinton was making a bigger point here, about the importance of connection and the sharing of stories in a political world overrun by snapshots, caricatures, fragmentation and reality distortion. “This sounds a little extreme to say, but it’s like an evolutionary development, right?” Clinton told me. Your communities should begin small, she said, in terms that precisely echoed those set out in her 1996 book, “It Takes a Village. ” You form identities in your family, she said, and then in your neighborhood and in wider communities. “It was all person to person, and you learned to deal with people, for better or worse,” she said. She contrasted this with modern   cultures. People use the terms “friends” and “followers” to describe people they have never met, whose identities they think they know but may not even be real. “And you are having emotional and intellectual experiences,” Clinton said, “that are unlike anything that’s ever happened in the entirety of human history. ” Like the culture it is playing out in, this presidential campaign has existed in a racing progression of flash images and snap judgments. Personal narratives get lost, while a candidate’s can become warped through the vertigo. We might be as interconnected as ever but starved for connections, Clinton says. Trump, perhaps tellingly, is not much for hearing voters’ stories. He rarely does retail stops and hates shaking hands. He tweets at all hours and constantly watches himself on television. He is in so many ways the  . At the end of our conversation in Toledo, I asked Clinton if she thought the resentment sowed and fissures exposed in the course of this campaign would make the United States an even harder country to govern. “No, we face some hard choices,” she began, and I immediately smirked  —   “Hard Choices” was the title of her 2014 memoir on her years as secretary of state, and I figured she was clicking into huckster and   mode. But then she veered in a direction that surprised me. “There are some difficult trends, which are not primarily political,” Clinton told me. “They are more cultural, psychological, and we just have to deal with them. ” Earlier she had mentioned the 1985 book “Amusing Ourselves to Death,” by Neil Postman, about how television has oriented politics more and more toward entertainment. She also cited the historian Christopher Lasch, the author of “The Culture of Narcissism. ” The authors, she said, “were trying to come to grips, before the internet, trying to understand what was happening in our society, that we are experiencing a level of alienation, disconnectedness. ” She told me that her primary objective as president would be to encourage connectedness, to have actual conversations. Clinton has always preferred to build narratives from a granular level: start with details and allow a message to emerge more slowly. In college in the late 1960s, she resisted revolutionary change in favor of grinding out incremental progress inside the system. She has no patience for messianic rhetoric and hyperbolic slogans and grandiose speeches. It can make her an awkward fit in this campaign environment, harder to break through and determinedly not dazzling. But Clinton said that the key to building connectedness lies in a leader’s ability to knit together a sense of common destiny from the ground up. “It requires real storytelling,” she said. “And I think as president, I can tell that story. It’s harder as a candidate. ” I had often heard the exact opposite. In Obama’s first term, his aides lamented that it was much easier to tell stories and drive a message in a campaign context than from the White House. As president, they said, you are constantly reacting to things and largely at the mercy of events  —   “governing in prose,” as opposed to “campaigning in poetry,” to adapt the old line from Mario Cuomo. Clinton envisions a model more suited to her skills and comforts. It also could portend a very different style of president  —   without the sweeping themes of Barack Obama, the moral certainty of George W. Bush or the explanatory clarity of Bill Clinton. Can Hillary Clinton do a better job inspiring people from the White House than she has from the campaign stage? Would it become easier or harder to do without Trump around to embody everything she has ever opposed and scare the daylights out of her base? “Don’t blow this” is what Clinton hears most often these days, she told me, or variations thereof. As it has turned out, Clinton, who began her campaign intent on breaking the last barrier  —   the glass ceiling  —   has found her most compelling rationale in her own role as a barrier, a bulwark against the impossible alternative. As I was leaving our interview, she smiled, looked me in the eyes and left me with a casual reminder. “As I’ve told people,” she said, “I’m the last thing standing between you and the apocalypse. ”