TORONTO  —   In 2016 the Toronto Blue Jays enjoyed, by far, the largest attendance increase in Major League Baseball. In what was a natural result of last year’s riveting playoff run by the club, almost 600, 000 additional fans poured through the turnstiles at Rogers Centre, leaving the Blue Jays with the   attendance figure in the majors this season, behind only the Los Angeles Dodgers and the St. Louis Cardinals. For many years before that, the Toronto stadium was often a   concrete shell (or more than  ) a place where the crack of ball on bat echoed around the cavernous confines. But as the Blue Jays regained their swagger last season and this, the building has sprung to life again. With that has come more noise and more excitement but also some unruly behavior and even claims of verbal abuse directed at opposing players. “It’s hockey fans,” said Jason Kipnis, the second baseman for the Cleveland Indians, who played the Blue Jays in Game 3 of the American League Championship Series on Monday night. “And I mean that in the best way, because I’m a hockey fan, too. But that’s exactly what you want out of the fans. You want that little feeling, like that 1 percent feeling where I’m not sure I’m safe right here. ” That was actually the case in the Blue Jays’   playoff game against the Baltimore Orioles. During that tense contest, a spectator threw a can of beer onto the field as the Orioles’ Hyun Soo Kim settled under a fly ball in the seventh inning. The can flew about a foot behind Kim’s head and landed on the field, its sudsy contents spewing out. Kim’s teammate Adam Jones, playing center field, was irate and later said that he and Kim were victims of racial abuse from spectators, a claim corroborated by at least one fan in attendance. It was not the first time a projectile had been thrown onto the field at Rogers Centre. In 2013, a drink was hurled during a   game involving the Orioles. And last year, after a disputed umpiring call in Game 5 of an A. L. division series between the Blue Jays and the Texas Rangers, spectators showered the Rogers Centre field with plastic water bottles, beer cans and other items. It was a rowdy and unsettling scene, and it drew rebukes from both the Rangers and the Blue Jays. Bottles even came close to hitting Toronto Manager John Gibbons as he went out to argue the call. At the time, Gibbons made   remarks about almost getting hit on the head, but after the recent   game, his patience had run its course. “Enough already,” he said after that game. “Let us handle things on the field. ” After the beer can was thrown at Kim, the atmosphere in the stadium intensified, and at least a few fans said they heard others yelling racially abusive remarks at Jones and Kim. Avi Miller, a    Orioles fan, said in a telephone interview Monday that he was at the   game and had heard people yelling at Kim, who is South Korean, to go back to his country, and other things directed at Jones that he said he was not comfortable repeating. “I am convinced that 99 percent of the people who were booing were booing the person that threw the can of beer,” Miller said. “But some people around me took a very low approach and they were yelling at Kim. “It was disappointing to hear,” he added. Miller, who said he had been to games at more than 20 major league stadiums, said he had heard similar invective in other venues. But at the recent   game, it was worse, he said, even if it lasted only a few minutes. Miller said he was sitting in Section 130 down the   line, in foul territory, facing the direction from which the can was thrown. After the episode, he said, fans began yelling back and forth, and he suspected that alcohol might have played a role. “It was   basically happening after the incident,” he said. “Most of the people around me were very disappointed by it. They were annoyed by it, too. ” Asked if he heard racial abuse directed at Jones, he said, “Yes. ” On Oct. 7, three days after the game, the police in Toronto charged    Ken Pagan with mischief, saying he had thrown the can of beer. The arrest was made based on video and photographic evidence. Tyler Smith, Pagan’s lawyer, said his client faced a court date Nov. 10, when the state will turn over the evidence. Smith also said Pagan had stopped working at the media outlet Postmedia in the aftermath of the arrest. Smith said that he could not comment on the case until he saw the evidence. “This has had a huge impact on him,” Smith said Monday. “He was a guy who was well respected in his community, and now everyone is blaming him for the fact that beer is no longer served in cans at the games. He has a lot of enemies out there. ” The Blue Jays announced that for the remainder of the postseason, all beer would be poured into cups when sold to customers. Before Monday night’s game, there had been one playoff game played at Rogers Centre since the   contest  —   the Game 3   clincher in which the Blue Jays ousted the Rangers in a rematch from last year  —   and no trouble was reported. In their announcement, the Blue Jays said enhanced security measures would be in place to prove a “safe and enjoyable atmosphere. ” But it is also an atmosphere that has become a lot louder as the Blue Jays have revived on the field. “It’s definitely changed here the last couple of years,” Gibbons said. “There’s something to it. We feel it. And I don’t think it’s an easy place to play for an opponent. ”