A fragrant mound of rose bushes, thyme beds, and magnolia and crab apple trees rises on a former roadway reclaimed for open space. Except that it is not actually open. Instead, it sits behind a locked,   gate in the heart of the West Village. It has no benches and no visiting hours. Called the Sheridan Square Viewing Garden, it is, as its name suggests, just for looking. “It’s pretty, but there’s almost no point,” said Alec Haley, a New York University student who walks by every day. “Parks are supposed to be enjoyed and not just stared at. ” Long before New York City’s plazas and parks were filled with lunchtime crowds savoring their lattes and kale salads, the city embarked on a campaign to carve out small pockets of greenery from dormant or unused sections of roadway to break up the    streetscape. These efforts came during a time when the city was a far more dangerous place. Some of the open spaces had to be locked up or scrapped over fears that they would become magnets for loiterers, criminals and homeless people. In Herald Square, a teeming pedestrian plaza now lies just steps from Macy’s, but store officials fought hard to keep it from being built in the 1980s, according to a former city transportation official. The former official, Samuel I. Schwartz, who served as the traffic commissioner from 1982 to 1986, said that back then even chairs were nailed down to keep them from being stolen. Of these       like the viewing garden, he said, “They were closed to people, open to your eyes. ” The Sheridan Square Viewing Garden, which was planted in 1982, was among the most notable of these street experiments. Of course, it is hardly the only public garden to restrict public access. Many community gardens are kept under lock and key by their members. And city parks sometimes have   areas to assure that fragile plants are not being stepped on, or worse. But the viewing garden today takes up prime street space in a more crowded city. With so many pedestrians trying to squeeze by on the increasingly congested streets and sidewalks, some have questioned whether a viewing garden has outlived its usefulness. “If they put in a few benches and a little gate, then it becomes a public space that people can use,” Kirsty Savides, a tourist from Cape Town, South Africa, said as she stood outside the garden recently, clutching a takeout lunch. Stewart Driller, president of the Sheridan Square Triangle Association, a neighborhood group that maintains the viewing garden, said there was simply not enough room for people in addition to all the plants in such a tight space. Even the caretakers do not linger once they have planted, pulled weeds and picked up trash, he said. “It is meant to beautify the neighborhood, and is best seen from the outside,” said Mr. Driller, a retired electrical engineer. Other supporters of the garden pointed out that there were public spaces with seating areas nearby, including Christopher Park. City officials said there were no plans to open the garden. “Sheridan Square was designed as a gated garden in response to community requests, and it remains a   spot of color in the West Village,” said Sam Biederman, a spokesman for the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. In the 1980s, the Sheridan Square Viewing Garden was part of a renewed push by city transportation and park officials to make more room for pedestrians and bicyclists on streets long ruled by cars. Bike and bus lanes were expanded. Slivers of greenery were eked out of traffic islands, medians and turning lanes, or whittled from irregularly shaped corners where streets crossed at a diagonal, or remnants left over after highway construction projects. “Asphalt and concrete are deadening,” said David Gurin, the deputy transportation commissioner from 1978 to 1989, who planned the Sheridan Square garden along with many other spaces. “It’s good, whenever possible, to replace them with living trees and flowers. ” Many of these spaces came to be known as Greenstreets, and were placed in the care of the parks department. Henry J. Stern, who served as the parks commissioner twice in the 1980s and 1990s, bestowed names and signs on some of them. He also sent letters to other government agencies asking for any unused bits of land to create more. No space was too small. “It was a way to improve the quality of life,” he said. The parks department currently oversees about 2, 000 Greenstreets, the majority of which are open to the public, Mr. Biederman said. The Sheridan Square Viewing Garden is the only one known to carry that designation, though there are other gardens and parkland that have been partly or entirely fenced in. In Brooklyn, the planting beds in Butterfly Garden beside the Prospect Expressway are set off by a      fence, though the rest of the site  —   which includes benches and a paved walkway  —   is open. A neighborhood group that maintains the garden, HomeGrown Parks Volunteers, has created a separate planting area where children grow tomatoes, green beans, basil and dill. That area is normally left open except during May and June, when there is a full harvest of vegetables. Nancy Dennigan, one of the volunteers, said someone recently wandered into the children’s planting area, which was open, and clipped off all of the ornamental pumpkins being grown for the fall. “We’re not at a point where we feel we can open up the garden area and just walk away,” Ms. Dennigan said. Adrian Benepe, a senior vice president for the Trust for Public Land who was the city’s parks commissioner from 2002 to 2012, pointed out that open spaces did not necessarily have to be open to benefit the community. Mr. Benepe, who works near the Sheridan Square garden, said   greenery brightened up roadsides, improved air quality and caught   runoff. “Not all nature needs to be walked across,” he said. “In some cases, it just doesn’t work. It’s too small, and the traffic is too heavy. ” The garden grew out of an effort by local residents to reclaim a triangular traffic island created at the junction of Barrow and West Fourth Streets and Washington Place. It had long been overrun by illegally parked cars and trucks. The   signs had little effect they were knocked over, leaving only “little stubs sticking up,” Mr. Driller said. Lou DeLuca, a chef who lives nearby, said: “It was one of the uglier spots in the Village. Now it’s a showplace. ” Even with the fence, it has not been easy to maintain the carefully landscaped garden. Thieves managed to reach through the bars or hop the fence in earlier years. “I’d get up in the morning and there would be a clump of dirt on the sidewalk and missing plants,” Mr. Driller recalled, adding that the association once had to chain plants to concrete blocks. One man climbed into the garden to sleep and the next day stored his backpack and guitar there, as if it were a hotel coat room. Eve Rothenberg, one of the volunteer gardeners, said they left him a note asking him to please remove his belongings. He did. On the back of the note, he scribbled his thanks. For many others, though, seeing the viewing garden from the outside is enough. Frank Stark, a retired antiques dealer whose apartment overlooks the garden, said he did not have to step inside the garden to enjoy it. “It’s not all about sitting down,” he said. “We have a lot of concrete in New York and we need space and greenery. Just to look at something pretty is nice. ”