EAST HAMPTON, N. Y.  —   Sometimes, Valerie Smith reminds herself that she is not a pollster, she is just selling cups  —   plastic drinking cups with the presidential candidates’ names. But she has been keeping track, just like a pollster, and hoping that her cup count is as reliable as it was in the last three presidential races. The tally on the final weekend before Election Day  —   the number of cups sold in her shop here since just after the Super Tuesday primary contests in March, when she started counting in earnest  —   was 4, 946 for Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, and 3, 388 for Donald J. Trump, her Republican rival. If the cup count is wrong, Ms. Smith will join famous     prediction makers like The Literary Digest, which had a perfect record for 20 years until it called the election of 1936 for Alfred M. Landon over President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Or The Chicago Tribune, which was so sure in 1948 that it published the infamous banner headline “Dewey Defeats Truman. ” Ms. Smith’s count is not the usual   survey. It is based on a random sample  —   whoever walks into her store, the Monogram Shop, and buys the cups. But it is skewed toward the extremely wealthy. East Hampton’s average household income is $126, 382 a year, almost two and a half times the national average. And the results can be clouded another way, when customers buy more than one cup. The cups are labeled with campaign logos she has copied when they are available, or designs she has created when they are not. Professional pollsters have used computers since the days when they were primitive, but at the Monogram Shop, the daily running total is kept on a handwritten piece of paper. It is updated at closing time, and the numbers are posted on the store window, just as in 2004, 2008 and 2012. The final counts from those races are elusive. “They must be in the computer,” she said last week, “but I can’t find them. ” She does not talk the talk of a professional pollster. The shop is a place where seldom is heard a statistical term like “sampling error,” “standard deviation” or “ . ” The only margin of error is whether she has enough cups on hand, and when she does not, things are fungible in ways that they are not in a real poll. The store all but sold out of Clinton cups on Saturday. At closing time, only 17 were left from a shipment of 250 delivered last Wednesday. Ms. Smith and her staff members blocked out the logos on Trump cups and replaced them with Clinton logos. Shoppers on Sunday received the   cups and were promised real ones after another shipment arrives on Wednesday. Yes, Wednesday. After the election. “You have to be nimble in this game,” Ms. Smith said. Her shop specializes in personalized items  —   she can put a name, a logo or even an email address on napkins, towels or  . Ms. Smith, 68, started selling cups, and keeping count in 2004, the year the Democrats nominated John Kerry to run against the Republican incumbent, President George W. Bush. The price of each cup was $3, as it is now. “I didn’t sit up in bed one night and say, ‘Let’s count the cups,’” she recalled. “We just did it, and we started posting the results in the window every night. People were intrigued, in a kind of happy way. They’d be on the way to dinner and they’d say, ‘Look at this crazy little store.’ There were, yes, the Bush masters of the universe who would say, ‘Give me a hundred cups I want to change the numbers on the window.’ They definitely did that. But there was no rancor. It was, ‘He’s my guy and I’ll buy a whole bunch.’ Or it was, ‘20 Bush cups and 20 Kerry cups, and we’ll have a party. ’” Mr. Kerry was significantly ahead all of that summer. “And then George W. man, he came out of nowhere in late September or October and started selling a lot of cups,” she said, “and ended up winning the cup count. ” And the election for a second term. Ms. Smith began selling cups for the 2008 presidential election in 2007, when Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor, entered the race for the Republican nomination. She opened the first box of Giuliani cups, which she had designed, only to find that she had misspelled his name. He dropped out of the race in January 2008, and before long she was selling cups for Senator John McCain. In the Democratic primary contests that year, the race was between Mrs. Clinton and Barack Obama. One day Chelsea Clinton walked in. “She said, ‘I’d like to buy some cups,’” Ms. Smith recalled. “And I said, ‘Which ones? ’” Then Mrs. Clinton finished third in the Iowa caucuses, and her campaign never recovered. Ms. Smith ordered cups with Mr. Obama’s name. He won the count against Mr. McCain, as he did in 2012 against Mitt Romney. Ms. Smith started preparing for the 2016 election a year ago, with cocktail napkins that said “No Trump. ” As the Republican field of candidates ballooned, she had another batch of napkins printed that looked like ballots. But she limited herself to three kinds of cups  —   for the Republicans Marco Rubio and Jeb Bush, and for Mrs. Clinton. “The Hillary cups sold out,” she said. “I ordered 100, that’s the minimum. She managed to sell 100 cups, not briskly, but she sold them. Rubio’s cups, one day I looked up and they were all gone. Maybe they were stolen. You know, you’re not always paying attention. And I couldn’t sell Jeb Bush cups. ” In February, after he dropped out of the race, she gave them away. She waited to order Trump cups. “I kept thinking the dude’s going to crater,” she said. He did not, and in April, she ordered the first 100. That was when she started the 2016 count. It does not include the Clinton cups sold during the primaries. The Trump cups led the count from April to   she said. Mrs. Clinton caught up on July 17. “Since then, she has, in a very   way, doggedly, slowly, cup by cup, pulled ahead,” Ms. Smith said. “She didn’t meteorically sell tons and tons of cups. It’s been a gradual widening. ” “The thing that’s been so pronounced and remarkable is the complete lack of humor or jocularity,” Ms. Smith added. “When a Trump person comes to buy their cups, it’s steely. There’s a level of certainty with the Trump people  —   ‘This is the right thing for our country. This is the right guy, and there’s no question about it.’ And the same for the Hillary people, although the Hillary people are a little more willing to engage in conversation. But there’s not the   enthusiasm where people are excited and  . ” Nor can Ms. Smith predict which customers will buy which cups this time around. The cups are in big buckets at the front of the store. The cash register is on a wide counter at the back. “All I see is somebody walking toward the desk, and they have a cup,” she said. “What flickers through my mind is, ‘Here comes a Hillary person,’ and down go the six Trump cups. Or, a fireman from Staten Island, a burly guy, we engaged in a big conversation. I thought, ‘Here come the Trump cups,’ and he put down Hillary cups. There’s no profile. ”