HAENGCHI VILLAGE, South Korea  —   Each day hundreds of visitors, many with young children, make a pilgrimage to Haengchi Village, where Ban   was born 72 years ago. They wander through a replica of Mr. Ban’s old   house. They learn about his personal journey to the United Nations, where he was secretary general for 10 years. Despite criticism of his tenure there, Mr. Ban is seen as a role model by vast numbers of South Koreans. School textbooks, for example, celebrate him as a “man who made South Korea proud. ” And many South Koreans want Mr. Ban to be their next president, succeeding Park   whom the National Assembly voted to impeach last month on corruption charges. When Mr. Ban arrived home on Jan. 12, crowds of   turned out at the airport, waving flags and shouting, “Ban   please save this country!” Yet there is also deep skepticism about his potential presidential bid, especially among the nation’s progressives. They say he is trying to be part of the establishment yet against it at the same time  —   a “Mr. ” in the words of critics. (The word “ban” in Korean means “half. ”) Mr. Ban calls himself “a child of the United Nations,” part of a generation of South Koreans who remembered United Nations handouts in the destitute years after the   Korean War, as well as   United Nations Forces who fought in the war. Many of his contemporaries view the United States as South Korea’s savior and protector. “I am ready to give my all to uniting the divided country and making South Korea a   nation,” Mr. Ban said. “As United Nations secretary general, I have seen why some nations prosper and why some fail. ” His advocates say he is a seasoned,   diplomat who can best deal with both North Korea’s advancing nuclear weapons program and President Trump, who has raised questions about Washington’s trade and defense commitments to its allies. One of the first things Mr. Ban did after his homecoming was support the deployment of an American missile defense system that has angered North Korea and China. Critics say his place in the establishment makes him unsuitable as a figure who can restore trust in government. They believe the political class has been disgraced by Ms. Park’s corruption scandal and yet is also desperate for a candidate it can support in an election that could take place as early as this spring. The Constitutional Court is expected to rule in the coming weeks whether Ms. Park should be formally unseated. As Mr. Ban crisscrossed the country after his return, paying homage to the dead at national cemeteries and shaking hands with street vendors, his detractors trailed him, holding signs that called him “an opportunist,” or worse. “He has spent his entire life on the sunny side,” said Moon   an opposition leader who comes in ahead of Mr. Ban in surveys on presidential hopefuls. “He is not the kind who shares the people’s desperate desire for change. ” Lee   who served as South Korea’s prime minister when Mr. Ban was its foreign minister from 2004 to 2006, called Mr. Ban “a diplomat who looks twice but does not leap. ” Mr. Ban won his United Nations job 10 years ago with the support of Roh   then the president, a progressive who handpicked him as a candidate. Critics called Mr. Ban a turncoat when he later appeared to align himself closely with conservatives, including Ms. Park. His popularity rating as a presidential contender has plummeted in the wake of Ms. Park’s scandal. Since he has returned home, Mr. Ban has defined himself as a “progressive conservative” who can mend an ideologically fractured country. But some local news media suspect him of   while he tries to find an ally among the existing political parties or to woo enough lawmakers away to form his own. They also call him a “slippery eel,” accusing him of being notoriously vague on tough questions, a trait that has sometimes served him well as a diplomat but now is under harsher scrutiny as he considers a presidential bid. As United Nations secretary general, he praised the deeply unpopular agreement Ms. Park struck with Japan to end a dispute over “comfort women,” or Korean sex slaves for Japan’s World War II army. But as a presidential hopeful, he began raising questions about the deal, saying that an agreement that failed to satisfy the surviving victims was not enough. With his popularity ratings stuck behind Mr. Moon’s, the usually   Mr. Ban began bridling at criticism. When journalists recently dogged him with hard questions and then wrote articles that accused him of being   over the comfort women issue, he called them names. (He later apologized.) He has also called himself a Mr. Clean, responding to the outcry over Ms. Park’s scandal. But to people weary of recurring corruption scandals among political leaders and their families, Mr. Ban’s claim has already lost some of its luster this month, the United States indicted his nephew, who is a New York real estate broker, and his younger brother in South Korea on charges of attempting to pay bribes to facilitate a Korean company’s sale of a   commercial building in Vietnam. Mr. Ban denies involvement. Yet here in his home province of Chungcheong, pride in Mr. Ban is compared to a personality cult by his critics. Streets, marathons and   contests are named after him. Songs are written about him, including one that calls him “Korea’s favorite son who embraced five oceans and six continents. ” In Eumseong, the seat of the county that includes this village, a park displays a circle of bronze busts of Mr. Ban and other former United Nations secretaries general. And this hamlet, which has only a dozen households, is a veritable Ban   theme park. A monument erected by the local Ban clan calls him a “sacred peak of the world” whose “warm smile dissipated international conflicts. ” Visitors stroll around the “Ban   Peace Land,” a small park with a granite monument in the shape of the United Nations headquarters surrounded by flags of member states. In the “Ban   Memorial Hall,” biographical sketches and video clippings tell how Mr. Ban, with his quiet tenacity and “warm charisma,” overcame his humble origin and became the “president of the world. ” “If I sleep now, I may dream, but if I study now, my dream will come true,” goes one of the 19 Ban   sayings in a museum handout. Older villagers remember the young Mr. Ban walking on a dirt road with his eyes fixated on an English textbook. (His English skills gave him his first big break: As a teenager in 1962, he excelled at an   contest, winning a Red   trip to the White House, where he met President John F. Kennedy and resolved to become a diplomat.) A roadside motel here added more rooms because so many newlyweds believed that if their firstborns were conceived with the blessing of the energy of the mountains surrounding the village, they would grow up to be luminaries like Mr. Ban. “I brought my children here so they can learn from Secretary General Ban’s life that there is no easy way in life but that if you try hard, your dream comes true,” said Lee   42, who recently visited here with his daughter and son. Kim   65, a   owner who recently visited Mr. Ban’s birthplace, said Mr. Ban’s “vast experiences and  ” will make him a great president, enabling him to avoid the kind of mistakes that led to Ms. Park’s scandal. “It’s an honor to have him in our country,” he said. But another visitor, Kim   also a Ban fan, feared that Mr. Ban might not survive the thrust and parry of domestic politics. “I wonder why he risks ruining his image by entering domestic politics,” he said. “It’s a mud pit, and he could end up losing all. ”