WASHINGTON  —   When former Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. learned he would be sitting down for an interview with Gwen Ifill, he prematurely breathed a sigh of relief, thinking about the    woman he had befriended through house parties and family barbecues. “She wasn’t Gwen the national figure, but Gwen the sistah,     ” he said. “The sistah with fascinating stories, with funny jokes and juicy    observations better known as gossip. ” The two had bonded over their shared connection to Barbados and took to calling each other “cuz,” imagining they might be distant cousins through ancestors on the Caribbean island. But moments into their interview, Mr. Holder, still early in his tenure as attorney general, realized that the   woman from the weekends had “transformed. ” “My dear Gwen, unexpectedly to me, went from ‘cuz’ to newsperson,” Mr. Holder said. “She was fair but she was piercing, serious but unfailingly nice, smiling the whole time as she forced me out of my prescribed talking points. ” Mr. Holder told his story and read a letter from President Obama in front of thousands of mourners who gathered for nearly three hours Saturday for Ms. Ifill’s funeral, which was held at Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church, a former haven to runaway enslaved people where Ms. Ifill had worshiped since 1989. Ms. Ifill died on Monday from complications of uterine cancer. She was 61. On Saturday, some wept as they studied the long wooden pew in the seventh row in the center of the church where Ms. Ifill and her friends regularly sat, and where, after her death, the church placed a plaque with Ms. Ifill’s name. (The church has placed plaques on other pews for figures like Frederick Douglass.) The funeral became a reunion of Ms. Ifill’s large family and a gathering of luminaries. Michelle Obama, the first lady Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama and Donna Brazile, the interim Democratic National Committee chairwoman, sat alongside a number of prominent journalists, including Dorothy Gilliam, Chuck Todd, Roland Martin and Charlayne  . While many stood to speak about Ms. Ifill’s life, recordings of her own interviews and speeches that she gave were sprinkled throughout the service. Ms. Ifill was born on Sept. 29, 1955, in Jamaica, Queens. Her father was an A. M. E. minister and her family was deeply religious, as well as committed to watching the news to keep up with current affairs. She graduated in 1977 with a bachelor of arts degree from Simmons College in Boston, where she majored in communications. Her first job as a professional journalist was with The Boston  . In between that job and her final one with PBS, Ms. Ifill worked for The Baltimore Evening Sun, The Washington Post, and The New York Times, where she was a White House correspondent and covered Bill Clinton’s 1992 presidential campaign. Her career in television began in 1994, when Tim Russert recruited her to cover Capitol Hill for NBC. She joined PBS in 1999. Her highest visibility came as the moderator and managing editor of the public affairs program “Washington Week” on PBS, where she was also   and   editor, with Judy Woodruff, of “NewsHour. ” They were the first   team to anchor such a program. Under the church’s large stained glass windows, generations of people hugged, wept and shared their sadness about Ms. Ifill’s death. Many lamented that her voice would be especially missed as the nation prepared for   Donald J. Trump to take office. The funeral began in silence as images of Ms. Ifill were projected onto the wall. A recording of Mr. Obama calling her an “extraordinary journalist” boomed throughout the church. Soon after, it was Ms. Ifill’s voice that filled the room, saying, “You can be the person who turns toward, not away from, the chance to rise above the fray. ” In another recording that was played later, Ms. Ifill said, “It’s important to be reminded how easily we can be denied simple, obvious opportunity, how low the ceilings can get and how much fortitude it takes to refuse to accept the limits that others place on you. ” Audio also played of PBS viewers, who thanked Ms. Ifill for explaining the world to them every night and expressed sorrow that she would no longer help the nation grapple with political changes. Transfixed in the moment, most of the mourners stayed silent as latecomers shuffled into squeaky pews and the choir members, dressed in purple and gold robes, began to sing “Now Thank We All Our God. ” Several of Ms. Ifill’s friends read from Scripture and spoke of her ability to connect with family and friends and to mentor young journalists. Athelia Knight, a former reporter for The Washington Post and a close friend who frequently sat next to Ms. Ifill at church, read from 1 Corinthians: “Death has been swallowed up in victory. ” Puncturing the sadness, Ms. Ifill’s voice was played again. This time, she joked about the satire that followed when she moderated   debates. “And along the way, I have to say, there were some perks. I was played by Queen Latifah twice on ‘Saturday Night Live. ’” Yet the void left by Ms. Ifill’s death radiated through the morning. The sorrow seemed to reach its peak as her cousin Darlene   sang “It Is Well With My Soul,” belting out the hymn as many raised their hands and cried. Ms. Ifill’s   Ms. Woodruff, said in her reflections that the two had grown extremely close as they planned their program. “We didn’t look like other anchor pairs, and we loved that,” she said to loud applause, before adding that her heart was broken. Ms. Woodruff also said she could only imagine what Ms. Ifill might be doing in the afterlife. “A friend wrote, what a glorious scene is it to picture Gwen and Tim today, up in heaven, grilling James Madison and Alexander Hamilton about the Electoral College,” she said, referring to Mr. Russert, who died of a heart attack in 2008. Michele Norris, a friend and fellow journalist, said that she and Ms. Ifill were part of a circle of women who became as close as family and who supported one another through both struggles and successes. “Her ability to be a friend was epic,” Ms. Norris said, saying Ms. Ifill had nudged her at a party to talk to the man who later became her husband. Sherrilyn Ifill, Ms. Ifill’s cousin and the president and   of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, shared memories of playing dominoes and Scrabble together and of spending Thanksgiving with families deeply interested in politics and justice. She pointed out that both her parents and Ms. Ifill’s had immigrated to the United States from Barbados. “At this particular moment in our country, I do want to note that Gwen represented the most American of success stories,” she said.