(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. After a morning of    statements and Twitter posts,   Donald Trump met with Times journalists and our publisher, above, at our Midtown Manhattan headquarters. We   his comments. He retreated from a vow to pull out of the Paris climate accord, saying he would keep “an open mind. ” He said that he didn’t “want to energize” white supremacists. He suggested that his    could help broker peace between Israelis and Palestinians. And Mr. Trump confirmed that he was dropping his threat of further investigations into Hillary Clinton’s private email server and family foundation, saying she had already “suffered greatly. ” That decision may provoke a backlash among his supporters. ____ 2. The   was also asked about a meeting with a British politician, Nigel Farage, shortly after the election. According to a person present at that meeting, Mr. Trump encouraged Mr. Farage to oppose the kind of offshore wind farms that Mr. Trump believes will mar the view from one of his Scottish golf courses. “I might have brought it up,” he said during his lunch at The Times. Legal experts say Mr. Trump’s international business ventures could easily run afoul of a constitutional clause on conflicts of interest. The Supreme Court has never squarely considered the clause and there are no historical analogies. ____ 3. Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota is encountering resistance from the White House in his bid to become chairman of the Democratic National Committee. His supporters hoped he would be a fresh face for a party with a depleted bench. But President Obama’s advisers, uneasy with the progressive Mr. Ellison, are casting about for an alternative, according to multiple Democratic officials close to the president. ____ 4. Mr. Obama  awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to 21 people. It’s the nation’s highest civilian honor, and Mr. Obama has awarded more of them than any other president. The honorees include Kareem   above and Ellen DeGeneres, Diana Ross, Bruce Springsteen, the “Saturday Night Live” creator Lorne Michaels, and Bill and Melinda Gates, among other boldfaced names. He also granted clemency to 79 drug offenders, bringing the number of people whose sentences he has commuted to over 1, 000. ____ 5. More details are emerging about the school bus crash in Chattanooga, Tenn. that killed five students on Monday. The authorities say the    driver was going “well above” the     speed limit when the bus crashed. He’s been charged with five counts of vehicular homicide. ____ 6. The military campaign to oust the Islamic State from Mosul is in its sixth week. Our photographer and reporter covering the battle focus on an intensifying humanitarian crisis: the thousands of residents trying to flee. Stories of anguish like one from a   man searching for his parents are common. “I have not heard from them,” he told our reporter. “I am always crying. ” ____ 7. Some babies who have microcephaly linked to the Zika virus might appear healthy at birth, but develop symptoms later. That’s the unfortunate finding in a new study of 13 babies in Brazil. Doctors say there will most likely be other waves of children whose brains were affected by the Zika infection, but not severely enough to be noticed in their early months or years. ____ 8. Exxon Mobil, under fire over its past efforts to undercut climate science, is accusing the Rockefeller family of masterminding a conspiracy against it. Rockefeller family charities, longtime backers of environmental causes, have supported much of the research and reporting that have called the company to account for its climate policies. In 1870, John D. Rockefeller founded Standard Oil, the company that became Exxon Mobil. Above, David Kaiser, a member of the Rockefeller familiy. ___ 9. There is a sense of relief in Japan after a powerful earthquake tested the safety of a nuclear power plant. The 7.  quake hit near the site of the   2011 nuclear disaster in which three reactors melted down. This time, the Fukushima Daini and Daiichi power stations responded well. But critics remain concerned about whether the company is prepared for a disaster on the scale of the 2011 earthquake. ___ 10. Global warming is altering the ecology of the Arctic on a vast scale. Two sets of scientists have found that, with air temperatures far warmer and sea ice far rarer than normal, algae that form the base of the oceanic food chain are wildly proliferating. The changes are likely to have a profound impact on animals like birds, seals, polar bears and whales. ___ 11. Finally, we’ve been talking a lot about Thanksgiving dinner. But what about the before and after? Here are some recipes for appetizers on the big day, and a hearty frittata to feed overnight guests. ___ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.