(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Please note: The Evening Briefing is taking a break on Thursday, but we’ll be back on Friday. Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1.   Donald Trump moved to diversify his cabinet with selections for three key positions. He chose Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina as the ambassador to the United Nations and Betsy DeVos, a charter school advocate, for education secretary. He is also nearing an announcement of Ben Carson as secretary of housing and urban development. Ms. Haley, seen above last year, is a rising star in Republican politics and has sparred bitterly with Mr. Trump. We published the full transcript of Mr. Trump’s visit to our Midtown headquarters yesterday, and here’s a guide to the most salient quotes. ____ 2. Mr. Trump will hold meetings in    his upscale club in Florida, over Thanksgiving. The use of his vast real estate holdings is raising questions about whether he is exploiting the high profile of the presidency to draw attention to his properties. Here is a visual visitors’ log of notable people who filed through Trump Tower in a single day earlier this week. Mr. Trump plans to bar registered lobbyists making donations to activities surrounding his inauguration, but corporations and wealthy donors are welcome to contribute. 3. Hillary Clinton has widened her lead in the popular vote to 1. 5 percentage points, a spread not seen for a losing candidate since the disputed election of 1876. The news prompted calls from liberal activists for audits in three states won narrowly by Mr. Trump: Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. Above, an election watch party hosted by the American Embassy in South Korea. ____ 4. A Thanksgiving dinner will be served to about 2, 000 people protesting an oil pipeline near the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation in North Dakota on Thursday  —   and two celebrities, Jane Fonda and Shailene Woodley, said they would be on hand to help. The state’s leaders are pressuring President Obama to authorize the pipeline’s completion. Here’s a detailed map of conflicts along its   path. ____ 5. A London jury sentenced a man with a history of extremist   beliefs to life in prison for the murder of Jo Cox, a British lawmaker, a week before the country’s “Brexit” vote to leave the European Union. Thomas Mair shot and stabbed Ms. Cox, a    mother of two, in a case that shocked the country. Ms. Cox supported remaining in the bloc. ____ 6. The thick cloud of pollution that engulfed Delhi this month has dissipated, but the air quality will remain dangerous for months as the poor burn trash to stay warm. It’s a problem throughout northern India, particularly for children and the elderly. Our reporter visited two families at opposite ends of the economic spectrum to see how they are coping. ____ 7. The healthier dishes in your Thanksgiving spread were probably grown in California’s Salinas Valley, known as the salad bowl of the nation. But the workers who pick the crops there are facing a crisis of poverty and malnutrition. “The people who grow our food can’t afford to eat it, and they are sicker because of it,” said an advocate for farmworkers. ____ 8. Our movie critics have parsed through Hollywood’s latest offerings and chosen five films worth seeing over Thanksgiving, including “Moana,” above. And if you’re in New York City, here’s a guide to the best art shows in museums and galleries. The major museums have extended hours through the weekend. ___ 9. The big football game to watch on Thursday is the Minnesota Vikings against the Detroit Lions. Our writer says it is one of the  10 most important games left in the regular season. The teams are tied for first in the N. F. C. North, at  . Whichever team wins will have a huge leg up on the other in terms of reaching the playoffs. (12:30 p. m. Eastern, CBS) ___ 10. Ralph Branca, the Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher who served up the home run that lives on in baseball history as the “Shot Heard Round the World,” died at 90. He had three consecutive   seasons, but would never live down throwing the   fastball that lost his team the 1951 National League championship. “A guy commits murder and he gets pardoned after 20 years,” Branca once said at an  ’ game. “I didn’t get pardoned. ” ___ 11. Finally, we’re down to the wire to prepare Thanksgiving dinner. Perhaps you’d like some tips by text message from our food editor Sam Sifton, or to check out our Thanksgiving menu planner. In other news you can use, here’s how to be a perfect guest some election facts to employ in   debate and if all else fails, a wine guide. (Look for something light, versatile and   but really, there are no wrong choices.) And if your Black Friday shopping will be done from the comfort of your own home, you may want to consult our new holiday gift guide. Above, Mr. Obama pardoned a turkey as president for the last time. Happy Thanksgiving! ___ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.