Major League Baseball and the players’ union reached an agreement Wednesday night on a   collective bargaining agreement, beating a midnight deadline and ensuring labor peace through 2021 for a sport once regularly entangled in work stoppages. The deal includes revised rules for   compensation and the international amateur market, as well as an escalating threshold for payrolls subject to luxury taxes. Major League Baseball and the union announced the deal, subject to ratification by the involved parties, which continue to draft the formal language. Owners, players and officials from baseball and the union, the Major League Baseball Players Association, negotiated overnight on Tuesday in Dallas, where the union is holding its executive board meeting, and concluded on Wednesday. The owners could have voted to lock out the players at midnight had the old deal expired, but neither side wanted to shut down a roughly $10 billion industry and jeopardize the good will from a season that energized fans with the Chicago Cubs’ first World Series title in 108 years. Baseball’s last work stoppage was the strike that canceled the 1994 World Series and bled into the next season. The sides narrowly avoided a strike in 2002 but swiftly completed new agreements in 2006 and 2011. The new agreement ensures that free agency, trades and other transactions will continue and that the winter meetings will proceed as scheduled next week outside Washington. This was the first negotiation with Rob Manfred as commissioner and Tony Clark as the head of the union, and the slow pace of talks in recent weeks had frustrated some on management’s side. But while both sides wanted revisions to certain rules, there was no battleground issue that seriously threatened the industry. The union has always been fundamentally opposed to artificial restrictions on salaries and was mindful of that again now. In the labor deal that just expired, teams were fined for payrolls exceeding $189 million. In the new agreement, those figures will rise annually from $195 million to $210 million. “I want to thank the players for working diligently for more than a year to negotiate an agreement that, when finalized, will benefit all involved in the game and leaves the game better for those who follow,” Clark said in a statement. The most pressing question at the end of the talks was how to penalize teams that exceed the limit without creating a de facto salary cap or creating too much of a spread between the   and   teams. Forfeiting of draft picks was under consideration, but the union resisted that idea, understanding how much teams value their high picks. The penalty again will be fines, though they will be significantly higher. Teams that continually exceed the payroll threshold by a certain rate will be subject to increasing tax rates that could reach 90 percent. Under the old C. B. A. the highest tax rate was 50 percent. The union had also pushed for a system in which teams that sign free agents are not docked draft picks for doing so. Under the old system, most teams would lose their   pick for signing a free agent who turned down a   qualifying offer. That link severely undercut the market values of many free agents. Though the current   market will operate under the existing rules, the new rules (starting next  ) will be much less restrictive. If a team over the   threshold signs a free agent for a certain value  —   perhaps about $50 million  —   it will lose   and   picks. If a team under the   threshold does so, it will lose only a  . Late in the talks, the owners had agreed to eliminate the   link entirely, essentially creating unfettered free agency  —   but only if the union agreed to an international draft. Management hoped that would move negotiations along, believing that the players might be willing to take that deal because amateurs are not yet members of the union. But with more and more major league players coming from outside the United States, many Latin American players have made a compelling case against an amateur draft, reasoning that it would be unfair to prospects who lack the bargaining power of amateurs from the United States. As a compromise, teams will now be given same amount to spend on the international market  —   with a hard cap of about $5 million annually  —   but they can spend it as they please. The hope is that that will bring some cost certainty to the owners while still allowing foreign prospects to negotiate with multiple teams. Earlier in the talks, it seemed that rosters would expand to 26 players through August and be limited to 28 or 29 in September. Ultimately, though, roster sizes will stay the same (25 through August, up to 40 in September). The players will get improvements to the schedule  —   specifically more afternoon games on travel days. The season will also start four days earlier, allowing the   schedule to fit into a   window, up from 183.