From the onset of the   the Mets made it clear that their biggest desire was to retain Yoenis Cespedes, the   outfielder who helped transform them into a World Series contender in 2015 and a playoff team in 2016. They knew that his powerful   bat perfectly complemented their lineup and that, as their best   player, he offered them their best chance at competing for a title. On Tuesday, for the second   in a row, the Mets agreed to a deal with Cespedes, this time to the largest   contract they have offered any player in Sandy Alderson’s tenure as general manager: four years and $110 million, according to three people directly involved with the deal who were not authorized to speak about it publicly. The contract, which was still being completed on Tuesday, was contingent on a physical exam, which could be conducted as soon as Wednesday. The deal also included a full   clause, one of the people involved in the agreement said. Fox Sports first reported the deal. Cespedes, 31, was one of the top free agents on the market. He returned to the Mets last winter on a   $75 million contract that included an   clause after the 2016 season. After he posted another strong season  —   a . 280 average with 31 home runs and 86 R. B. I.  —   he exercised the   provision. In contrast with last winter, when the Mets were initially pessimistic about their chances of retaining him, the team thought it had a good chance this time. Cespedes had loved his year and a half with the Mets, performing well in baseball’s largest market, and team officials were confident that Cespedes, a flashy, talented and sometimes enigmatic outfielder, wanted to remain with the franchise. He also formed a strong bond with his teammates Jose Reyes and Asdrubal Cabrera. The Mets did not give Cespedes a   deal, as originally expected. But the Mets and Alderson, who is often leery of   deals for players in their 30s, enticed Cespedes with a high annual salary. The Washington Nationals, the San Francisco Giants and the Houston Astros were also considered potential suitors for Cespedes. Cespedes’s $27. 5 million average salary would be the highest in Mets history, and the highest for any outfielder in baseball. His average salary would also be the   for a position player Miguel Cabrera, the Detroit Tigers’ first baseman, has an average annual salary of $31 million. The largest   contract in Mets history is Carlos Beltran’s   $119 million deal, signed in the winter before the 2005 season. But Cespedes has far surpassed Beltran in average annual salary. Cespedes will have made $137. 6 million over five years from 2016 to 2020 with the Mets. It took two contracts and an   decision to reach that level of compensation. With Cespedes in the fold, the heavy lifting of the Mets’   is complete they have retained their two biggest free agents. Second baseman Neil Walker, who had   back surgery in September, accepted the Mets’   $17. 2 million qualifying offer on Nov. 14. The Mets made a qualifying offer to Cespedes, who rejected it, and they would have received a draft pick if he had signed elsewhere. The Mets can now turn their attention to shoring up their bullpen and determining what to do with their glut of outfielders, most of them   hitters. Jay Bruce, a   corner outfielder acquired by the Mets in August, has one year and $13 million left on his contract and could be traded. Curtis Granderson is entering the final year of his   $60 million deal and could also be expendable. Cespedes, who frequently played center field in 2015 after a trade to the Mets, is likely to return to left field, where he played for much of last season after a leg injury. Center could be manned by a rotation of Granderson, Michael Conforto and Juan Lagares. The Mets finished the season with a payroll of about $135 million, and it is expected to remain in that neighborhood in 2017. The team’s backbone is its young and relatively inexpensive starting rotation, which was staggered by injuries last season. The team is counting on comebacks by Zack Wheeler, Matt Harvey, Jacob deGrom and Steven Matz. Harvey, the first of the team’s young starters to be eligible for free agency, has two more seasons left under team control. With deGrom, Matz and Noah Syndergaard under control for a longer period, the team has a window to remain a contender while Cespedes is under contract.