WASHINGTON  —   A man fired a rifle on Sunday inside a Washington pizza restaurant that has been subjected to harassment based on false stories tying it to child abuse, the police said. No one was hurt, and the man was arrested. The man, Edgar M. Welch, 28, of Salisbury, N. C. told the police that he had come to the restaurant, Comet Ping Pong, in northwest Washington, to “ ” what is being called Pizzagate, an online conspiracy theory asserting, with no evidence, that the restaurant is somehow tied to a child abuse ring. He entered the restaurant shortly before 3 p. m. with a rifle and fired it at least once inside, the police said. The gunfire sharply escalated what had already been a tense period for the restaurant, its employees and the quiet neighborhood since the fake stories began spreading. Dozens of threats against employees had been made via email and social media. People inside the restaurant fled, and the police locked down the area, ordering patrons of a nearby bookstore and cafe called Politics and Prose to remain locked inside. Officers with rifles and protective gear surrounded the restaurant and apprehended Mr. Welch. Two additional firearms were found, one on Mr. Welch and the other in his vehicle, the police said. The police closed down a normally busy Connecticut Avenue, which runs in front of the restaurant, for several hours Sunday as they searched the area for other potential threats. In a statement, Comet Ping Pong’s owner, James Alefantis, condemned the people who had been spreading the bogus stories about child abuse. “What happened today demonstrates that promoting false and reckless conspiracy theories comes with consequences,” he said. “I hope that those involved in fanning these flames will take a moment to contemplate what happened here today and stop promoting these falsehoods right away. ” Bradley Graham,   of Politics and Prose, said the incident was a worrisome event during an uneasy time for the neighborhood. “This is one of the things we feared,” Mr. Graham said as the police surrounded his bookstore with rifles and weapons drawn. “That this could go from a social media attack to something much more dangerous and physical. ” Mr. Graham said he and others had been disappointed that the local law enforcement authorities had not previously responded more aggressively to try to stop the harassment related to the fake claims, particularly after one supporter of the Pizzagate theory shot a live video from within the restaurant during a busy dinner shift. The misinformation campaign about Comet began when the email account of John D. Podesta, an aide to Hillary Clinton, was hacked and his emails were published by WikiLeaks during the presidential campaign. Days before the election, users on the online message board 4chan noticed that one of Mr. Podesta’s leaked emails contained communications with James Alefantis, Comet’s owner, discussing a   for Mrs. Clinton. Sabrina Ousmaal, owner of a French restaurant called Terasol, which is across the street from Comet, said that other businesses in the area had also been targeted by threats and that the response from the authorities so far had been insufficient. “The F. B. I. and the police were notified repeatedly of these death threats and calls, emails, online posts,” she wrote in an email Sunday, after the rifle blast. “Nothing was done. I am appalled and horrified. Do people need to die for something to be done?”