A judge on Monday sentenced a Georgia man to life in prison without the possibility of parole after a jury found that he had intentionally left his toddler son in a hot sport utility vehicle to die. Jurors last month convicted the man, Justin Ross Harris, 35 when convicted, of malice murder and other charges in the June 2014 death of his    son, Cooper. Prosecutors argued that Mr. Harris was unhappily married and intentionally killed his son because he wanted an escape from family life. Defense lawyers maintained that Mr. Harris was a loving father and that while he was responsible for the boy’s death, it was a tragic accident. Mr. Harris did not testify at trial and did not speak at his sentencing hearing. Superior Court Judge Mary Staley Clark of Cobb County Superior Court told Mr. Harris that she thought about statements he had made during conversations with the police and his wife the day his son died about wishing to be an advocate to help keep others from leaving a child in a hot vehicle. “Perhaps not the way you intended, you in fact have accomplished that goal,” she said as she gave him the maximum sentence. Prosecutors had decided not to seek the death penalty, and Charles P. Boring, an assistant district attorney and the lead prosecutor on the case, said the sentence Mr. Harris got was appropriate. “I don’t think you could have any other sentence that would be appropriate when somebody’s been convicted of intentionally taking the life of a    child  —   not only doing that but doing it such a painful and deliberate way,” Mr. Boring told reporters. Mr. Harris’s lawyers did not present any evidence or make any arguments at sentencing. They also declined to comment after sentencing. Cooper died after sitting for about seven hours in the back seat of his father’s vehicle outside the suburban Atlanta office where Mr. Harris worked. Temperatures in the Atlanta area that day reached at least into the high 80s. Mr. Harris told police he forgot to drop his son off at day care that morning, instead driving straight to his job as a web developer for Home Depot, forgetting that Cooper was still in his car seat. Investigators found evidence that Mr. Harris was engaging in online flirtations and   affairs with numerous women other than his wife, including a prostitute and an underage teenager. Judge Staley Clark decided after nearly three weeks of jury selection in April that pretrial publicity had made it too difficult to find a fair jury in Cobb County, where the boy died, and granted a defense request to relocate the trial. A jury in Glynn County, located on the Georgia coast about 60 miles south of Savannah, spent about a month listening to evidence in the case and deliberated for four days before finding Mr. Harris guilty of all eight counts against him. In addition to malice murder and felony murder charges, Mr. Harris was also found guilty of sending sexual text messages to a teenage girl and sending her nude photos.