LONDON  —   Hundreds of officers and other employees of the police in Britain have used their power to sexually abuse vulnerable people, a report released on Thursday by a national watchdog said, the latest in a string of institutional abuse accusations in the country. Among those targeted, in what the independent agency called “the most serious corruption issue facing the service,” were victims of domestic abuse, drug and alcohol addicts, and people who work in the sex industry, some of whom were in custody at the time. The inquiry by Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary, which assesses national police forces, found that there had been 436 accusations of sexual abuse by police officers in England and Wales over the two years through the end of March. It said the accusations involved 334 police employees, including 306 officers. The watchdog also emphasized that the scale of the problem was much larger. The leader of the inquiry, Mike Cunningham, a former chief constable of the Staffordshire police in central England, said the abuse was an egregious breach of officers’ roles as guardians and protectors. “What can be worse than a guardian abusing the trust and confidence of an abused person? There can be no greater violation of public trust,” he said in the report. “It is an exploitation of power where the guardian becomes the abuser. ” Britain has been grappling with a series of scandals that have called into question how institutions, including the news media, the church and sports teams, respond to those who are vulnerable to abuse. In February, a three   set up by the BBC concluded that a culture of fear and an overly permissive approach to celebrities had allowed Jimmy Savile, a celebrated TV and radio personality, to sexually abuse 72 victims, including children. A scathing report concluded that the   entertainer, who died in 2011 at 84, had raped at least eight people during his tenure at the BBC, including an   . More recently, the world of soccer was deeply shaken after the police said that at least 350 people had come forward in the last two weeks of November to report abuse by youth coaches in Britain. The issue came under the spotlight after at least six former professional players spoke out about having been molested as boys in youth programs. This year, Prime Minister Theresa May, who was then the home secretary, asked the independent agency to investigate the issue of sexual abuse by the police, saying she was concerned that victims were not being taken seriously enough by officers. Lurid cases of sexual abuse by the police have been reported in the news media in recent years, but many say that the problem has not received sufficient attention. In 2011, Stephen Mitchell, a police constable in Northumbria, in northern England, was sentenced to life in prison for raping and sexually assaulting women he had arrested or met on the job. Prosecutors said that Mr. Mitchell, a Glasgow native, had demanded sexual favors from his victims, who included heroin addicts and a disabled teenager. In another case, Steven Walters, a West Midlands police officer, who served in Birmingham, was sentenced in October to four years in prison for groping a woman at her home and, on another occasion, for assaulting a woman in his patrol car.