CHARLESTON, S. C.  —   Shortly after being arrested and about 17 hours after he shot up the fellowship hall at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, Dylann S. Roof sat at an oval conference table with two F. B. I. agents and confessed  —   calmly, clinically, occasionally chortling  —   to killing nine people who he acknowledged could not have been more innocent. In a recording of the interview played on Friday during Mr. Roof’s death penalty trial here in Federal District Court, he expressed surprise when the agents told him how many had been killed. “I wouldn’t believe you,” he said after one first suggested that nine people had died. “There wasn’t even nine people there. Are you guys lying to me?” Mr. Roof, 21 at the time, told the agents he was astonished to find the church parking lot not swarming with police when he exited a side door at 9:06 p. m. on June 17, 2015. He said he had saved one of eight magazines for his Glock semiautomatic handgun, loaded with   bullets bought at Walmart, so he could kill himself if confronted by the police. Given that many mass killers do take their own lives, or are shot dead by the police, Mr. Roof’s extensive interview offered a rare courtroom glimpse deep into the mind of someone accused of such a rampage. Mr. Roof answered the agents’ questions eagerly in a    tone, his voice deeper than might be expected from his boyish appearance. He did not so much express remorse as depict his actions as necessary to retaliate for what he perceived as an epidemic of    crime. “I regret doing it a little bit,” he said, before the agents revealed to him the body count, which Mr. Roof had guessed was perhaps four or five. Once they did, and prompted him for his reaction, he said, “It makes me feel bad,” but there was little emotion in his voice. “I wouldn’t say I’m glad I did it,” he said. “I’ve done it, so”  —   he paused  —   “I had to do it. ” When one of the agents asked if he hoped to be a martyr, he answered, “Well, that would be nice, sure, but I didn’t know if that’s what would happen. ” The   interview took place at a police station in Shelby, N. C. where Mr. Roof had been arrested without incident the morning after the killings. He had been freed of his handcuffs and fortified with a Burger King hamburger provided by the Shelby officers. Mr. Roof is charged with 33 federal counts, including hate crimes resulting in death, and he is being tried only because the Justice Department rejected his offer to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence. He also faces separate capital murder charges in a state trial scheduled for  . The racial rationale Mr. Roof provided to two F. B. I. agents, Michael E. Stansbury and Craig Januchowski, closely resembled the online manifesto he is alleged to have written shortly before the killings and a journal found afterward in his car. “Well I had to do it because somebody had to do something because, you know, black people are killing white people every day on the streets, and they rape white women, 100 white women a day,” he told the agents. “The fact of the matter is what I did is so minuscule to what they’re doing to white people every day, all the time. ” Mr. Roof, who noted the declining influence of hate groups like the Ku Klux Klan, said, “Nobody else is brave enough to do anything about it. ” In the courtroom, Mr. Roof, dressed in a gray   sweater, sometimes leafed through papers at the defense table as the grainy video recording played on several screens. Mr. Roof, who is from Eastover, near Columbia, said in the interview that he had selected Emanuel, which was founded in 1818, because he knew it was historic and that he would find a concentration of   worshiping there. He said he did not know anything specific about its history and denied that his choice had any connection to the racial outcry surrounding the shooting of a black motorist by a white police officer in North Charleston two months earlier. He also made it clear that the Wednesday night Bible study session provided an easy target. “Well it’s like this, you see, I’m not in the position, you know, by myself, you know, to go into like a black neighborhood, you know, or something like that and shoot up, you know, drug dealers or something like that,” he said. “You know what I’m saying? That’s not going to do anything. You see what I’m saying. I had to go somewhere else. ” Mr. Roof said he hoped his attack would agitate race relations and awaken white Americans to the notion that they are “  citizens. ” He said his “racial awareness” had been inspired by a Google search of the phrase “black on white crime” after the reaction to the 2012 shooting of Trayvon Martin, a black    by George Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer in Sanford, Fla. ”That was it,” he said. He said that while sitting silently through the Bible study, his weapon and ammunition concealed in a fanny pack, he considered not going through with his plan. “I could have walked out,” he said, “and you know, that’s just what I was thinking, but then I just like, I don’t know, I don’t want to say spur of the moment, but, you know, I just finally decided I had to do it. ” He had no   Mr. Roof said, and he was under the influence of nothing stronger than a few swigs of vodka. Neither he nor his family had ever been victimized by   he said. He told the agents he was trying not to think about either the dead churchgoers or how his parents might react. When the agents pushed him to declare his guilt, he chuckled. “I am guilty,” he blurted. “We all know I’m guilty. ” The jury of 18, including six alternates, heard Mr. Roof’s confession a day after prosecutors put before them a stark juxtaposition of images: first a series of videos captured by the church’s security cameras of the victims entering the church in their last hours alive, ending with Mr. Roof’s arrival, then a grisly series of crime scene photographs of the devastation inside the fellowship hall. There was the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, still in his dark suit, sprawled on his stomach on the floor, blood oozing brightly from his head. Susie Jackson, 87, who was shot 11 times, lay dead under one of the round tables along with Cynthia Hurd, 54, and Sharonda   45. A final scene from the security camera showed Mr. Roof exiting the church’s side door, holding the Glock at his right side and driving off in his black Hyundai Elantra. Two days after the shooting, state investigators examined the car and found handwritten letters to Mr. Roof’s parents. “I know that what I did will have repercussions on my whole family,” he wrote to his mother, “and for this, I truly am sorry. ” He added, “At this moment, I miss you very much and as childish as it sounds, I wish I was in your arms. ” On the first day of the trial, medics took a woman away from the courthouse in an ambulance. It was Mr. Roof’s mother, Amelia Cowles, and defense lawyers, in a court filing on Thursday, said she had a heart attack. There has been no word on her condition.