SHERMAN, Conn.  —   Bob Stackowitz escaped from a Georgia prison so long ago that he eventually stopped acting like he was on the run. He bought a house in this rural town in western Connecticut, fixed boat engines for a living and, on occasion, forgot to use his alias, Bob Gordon. But when the    fugitive filed for Social Security benefits under his real name, the Georgia Corrections Department ultimately found out. The agency had long since stopped actively looking for Mr. Stackowitz, who escaped from prison in that state 48 years ago after serving about two years of a   sentence for robbery. Last month, federal marshals, accompanied by a Connecticut state trooper, knocked on the door at Mr. Stackowitz’s simple cedar contemporary home. Inmate No. 0000364334, whose hair had gone from dark walnut to wispy white in the intervening   had been caught. “I knew this day would come,” he calmly told the trooper, Mike Saraceno, before gathering his medications and surrendering. For residents of this picturesque town, the revelation that a fugitive had been hiding in their midst  —   and not just any fugitive, but Bob Gordon, for God’s sake  —   came as a jolt. Suddenly, television trucks were rumbling along quiet country roads where American flags waved gently and azaleas had just come into bloom. Mr. Stackowitz, a native of Bridgeport, had apparently never shared his secret. In recent years, he had spent much of his time coping with various illnesses, including bladder cancer, heart disease and diabetes. David Schneiderbeck, who owns Rizzo’s Garage, said he used to refer boat owners to Mr. Stackowitz, a mechanic known for his ability to coax bilge pumps and fuel lines back to life. Boating is a popular pastime in Sherman, which wraps around the upper part of Candlewood Lake, the state’s largest body of freshwater. “I don’t think he’s actually been under a boat for a long time because of his health,” Mr. Schneiderbeck said. “He always had guys working for him and he was directing them. ” Mr. Schneiderbeck and others said the emergence of Bob Gordon’s true identity underscored the way that many in this town of 3, 600 know one another: exchanging pleasantries while valuing their privacy. “Everyone has a past,” he said. “People keep to themselves. I’m not really a nosy guy. ” Even Mr. Stackowitz’s longtime girlfriend, Cindy Derby, said she had no inkling of his history. “He never told anybody,” said Ms. Derby, 61, a house cleaner. “I’m glad I didn’t know because then I would have always worried. I didn’t have to worry for 21 years. It wasn’t any of my business. ” Mr. Stackowitz’s life took a decidedly wrong turn in 1966, when he was convicted of robbery by force in Georgia, where he had gone on a road trip. Court records show that, from crime to sentencing, the entire case lasted less than two weeks. Ms. Derby said she was a    schoolgirl in Sherman when Mr. Stackowitz was arrested in Georgia. An indictment accused him and two other men of “unlawfully, wrongfully, fraudulently and violently” stealing $9 from a man, as well as the keys to his truck. The victim, now 91 and still living in Georgia, did not respond to an interview request. On Aug. 22, 1968, Mr. Stackowitz escaped from what was once known as the Carroll County Convict Barracks, a project built as part of the New Deal that is now a dilapidated storehouse for the county’s Public Works Department. The words “Carroll County” are painted in red near the roof, but the doors are rusted, and the paint on the prison bars is peeling and cracked. Mr. Stackowitz, who agreed to be photographed but declined an interview request, has told reporters that he had access to a vehicle as part of his work duties at the prison, where he repaired buses nearby. “One morning I just got in the truck and drove myself away,” he told The Hartford Courant in a videotaped interview. “I got on a plane and I was back in Connecticut before they even knew I was gone. ” These days, there is little memory of Mr. Stackowitz in Carroll County, where the authorities said he had escaped from the prison infirmary. Peter J. Skandalakis, the current district attorney for Carroll County, was 12 years old when Mr. Stackowitz fled the barracks, about an hour’s drive west of Atlanta. The man who ran the prison in 1968 is dead, and Robert Jones, the current warden, said the county’s file on the escape did not even fill a single page. Mr. Jones said he had never heard of the episode until Georgia state investigators called this year. Now Georgia officials are grappling with what, exactly, should happen to a man who evaded capture for nearly 50 years. Some, like Mr. Jones, note that Mr. Stackowitz was convicted of a violent crime. “He did cheat the system, there’s no doubt about it,” he said. “And not just that, he cheated the victim. There is a victim in this crime. ” Mr. Stackowitz has asked for clemency, emphasizing what he calls the exemplary life he has lived since the escape and his medical condition. In April, the commissioner of the Georgia Corrections Department signed an updated warrant for Mr. Stackowitz. A spokeswoman for the department, Gwendolyn Hogan, said on Friday that the state would seek Mr. Stackowitz’s return to Georgia. A hearing is scheduled for Monday in Danbury, Conn. Mr. Stackowitz’s lawyer, Norman Pattis, said he planned to contest extradition. Mr. Stackowitz’s slate blue house sits back from Route 39, just outside the town center. A narrow staircase in the garage that leads to the first floor was outfitted with an electric chairlift. Mr. Stackowitz’s friends and neighbors in Sherman are divided over his fate. Ms. Derby, who shares his enthusiasm for boats and “hot rods,” said she believed he would not survive imprisonment, given his poor health. “He’s a good guy who lived a clean life for the past 48 years and he did something wrong that caught up with him,” she said in a phone interview. “He’d never make it in jail. ” After he was arrested on May 9, Mr. Stackowitz spent five days in the Bridgeport Correctional Center he was released after friends chipped in to help him make bond. He was hospitalized briefly with kidney problems in late May. Others here said Mr. Stackowitz should be forced to return to Georgia, his quiet life notwithstanding. “I think he should go back and face the music,” John A. Rich, who owns Sacred Grounds Coffee Roasters, said. “I don’t like the precedent that you commit a crime and aren’t accountable. ” Clay Cope, the town’s first selectman, the equivalent of mayor, said he had mixed feelings. “What kind of life is that to lead where you live in fear every day that someone will knock on your door and apprehend you?” Mr. Cope asked. Even some law enforcement officials in Georgia expressed ambivalence about reaching back through the decades to impose punishment. While the state’s Board of Pardons and Paroles said it would not consider a reprieve, such as parole, until Mr. Stackowitz returned to Georgia, he was already assured of one legal victory. If he is extradited to Georgia, he will not be charged in the escape. “I look at it as a humanitarian matter, as well as a practical matter and a matter of justice,” Mr. Skandalakis, the district attorney for Carroll County, said. “There is really nothing I can do to this man. ”