The Playboy Mansion, the quintessential party house that held a special place in the imagination of American men for decades, has found a buyer, a Playboy spokesman said on Tuesday. The spokesman, John Vlautin, said the Los Angeles mansion, home to Hugh Hefner, 90, the founder of Playboy Magazine, was under contract to be sold to Daren Metropoulos, 32, a principal at the private equity firm Metropoulos  Company and an owner of Hostess Brands, the maker of that indestructible,   snack cake, the Twinkie. Mr. Vlautin declined to comment on the financial details, citing confidentiality restrictions. The house, which is nearly 20, 000 square feet, according to its sales listing, was built in 1927 in the Holmby Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles and has 29 rooms, including 12 bedrooms. It has a wine cellar, a theater, a gym, tennis courts and a huge swimming pool, complete with a shadowy grotto. Its listing price: $200 million. The listing also said the mansion was “one of a select few private residences in L. A. with a zoo license. ” Mr. Metropoulos will not have to go far once the purchase is completed: He lives next door in a house he acquired in 2009. He would, however, have to be willing to live with a nonagenarian celebrity roommate if he wanted to move in right away. Mr. Vlautin said that, regardless of the sale, Mr. Hefner planned to stay in the house indefinitely. Playboy bought the house in 1971, and Mr. Hefner moved in (permanently) in 1975. A spokeswoman for Mr. Metropoulos’s company said in a statement that after Mr. Hefner’s tenancy ends, the buyer hoped to connect his current house with the Playboy Mansion, “ultimately returning the combined 7.  compound to the original vision executed by noted architect Arthur R. Kelly. ” The mansion is famous for the lavish parties hosted by Mr. Hefner and attended by the rich, the famous and the  . The house has been featured as the ideal party destination for men in movies like “Beverly Hills Cop II” and television shows like “Entourage” on HBO. Holly Madison, a former girlfriend and housemate of Mr. Hefner’s and one of the stars of the E! reality show “The Girls Next Door,” which frequently featured the mansion, offered a different perspective on the house in her 2015 memoir. She called the climate “toxic” and described a stifling atmosphere that caused her to develop a stutter and even to consider suicide. Mr. Metropoulos told The Wall Street Journal, which reported the deal, that he was more interested in the mansion’s historic architecture than its reputation as a party pad. “The heritage of this property transcends its celebrity, and to have the opportunity to serve as its steward would be a true privilege,” he said. The Playboy Mansion was listed for sale early this year, and potential buyers expressed interest in acquiring Playboy Enterprises in its entirety. The company has suffered since the advent of internet pornography, and in March, its magazine stopped featuring fully nude women.