TEHRAN  —   A   employee of the Thomson Reuters Foundation, arrested in Iran more than two months ago for unexplained reasons, has been accused of plotting to overthrow the government, Iranian news media reported Wednesday. The detainee, Nazanin   37, is a program coordinator for the foundation, the independent charitable arm of the Thomson Reuters news agency. Both the foundation and Ms.  ’s British husband, Richard Ratcliffe, denied the accusations. Ms.   was arrested on April 3 in Tehran and taken to the provincial city of Kerman in southern Iran, according to a statement by the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps provided to the official Islamic Republic News Agency. Her    daughter, Gabriella, who had accompanied her to Iran for a visit with family, is staying with maternal grandparents. The child’s passport was confiscated by the Iranian authorities, severely complicating any possibility of reuniting her with Mr. Ratcliffe. “The British national, Nazanin Zaghari, who was arrested by the intelligence department of the Sarallah Corps of Kerman, has participated in coup plots,” the Revolutionary Guards statement read. “Through membership in foreign companies and institutions, she has participated in designing and executing media and cyberplots with the aim of the peaceful overthrow of the Islamic Republic establishment. ” The statement also accused Ms.   of being “one of the chief members of networks of adversary institutions, who  —   with the direction and support of foreign media and espionage services  —   has committed her criminal acts over the past few years. ” Mr. Ratcliffe was quoted by Reuters as calling the accusations against his wife “preposterous” charges that appeared to be a political case. He has been outspoken in calling for her release and started an online petition that now has more than 764, 000 signatures. The Revolutionary Guards statement seemed directed at the Thomson Reuters company, a global media powerhouse regarded with suspicion and hostility in Iran because of its British foundations. Reuters merged with Canada’s Thomson company in 2008. “The media corporations of hegemonic governments, especially the   British media, have made their best efforts in the recent months to support her in order to weaken the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps’ determination but this false hope will never come true,” the statement added. In 2012 Thomson Reuters’ press accreditation was suspended in Iran after the news agency was accused of having lied in a video report that asserted Iranian housewives were training to become ninja assassins. (A misleading headline in the report was corrected.) The suspended accreditation followed the closing of the British Embassy in Tehran after it had been attacked by   protesters. The government of President Hassan Rouhani has reportedly been in discussions to allow a Thomson Reuters bureau to reopen.   are opposed to what they view as increased influence by Westerners. Ms.   has never worked inside Iran, according to a statement released on Wednesday by the Thomson Reuters Foundation chief executive, Monique Villa. “Nazanin has been working at the Thomson Reuters Foundation for the past four years as a project coordinator in charge of grants applications and training, and had no dealing with Iran in her professional capacity,” the statement said. “The Thomson Reuters Foundation has no dealings with Iran whatsoever, does not operate and does not plan to operate in the country. ” The intelligence unit of the Revolutionary Guards has arrested several dual citizens over recent months. The latest such arrest was last week, when a   professor researching women, Homa Hoodfar, was arrested on undisclosed charges. The semiofficial Mashregh news organization reported Wednesday that she was accused of collaborating with two organizations that “are working to diminish religiosity and equal gender rights. ” Mashregh criticized the two organizations, Women Living Under Muslim Laws, and Hivos, a human rights advocacy group based in The Hague, for “emphasizing women’s control of their own bodies and choosing to live single. ”