  passengers in some small sport utility vehicles may not be as well protected as drivers in certain types of crashes, according to recent tests of seven vehicles by the nonprofit Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. The tests, known as small overlap frontal tests, were similar to the kind that the institute conducts by directing the   impact to the driver’s side of the vehicle. But in these latest tests, whose results were released on Thursday, the impact was on the S. U. V. s’ front passenger side. Among the small S. U. V.s tested, a 2015 Toyota RAV4 received a rating of “poor” on its   results. A 2014 Nissan Rogue and 2014 Subaru Forester received “marginal” safety ratings for   passengers. All seven vehicles had received the highest rating  —   “good’’  —   for protecting drivers in earlier, similar crash tests. But sitting next to the driver can be a riskier proposition. Of the seven, only a 2016 Hyundai Tucson earned a “good’’ rating on the   test. The remaining three  —   a 2015 Buick Encore, a 2015 Honda   and a 2015 Mazda    —   were rated “acceptable. ’’ (The different models reflect the first year in each case when modification were made that enabled the vehicles to earn their “good” ratings for the   tests.) The findings matter because more than 1, 600 passengers in the right front seats of vehicles of all types died in frontal crashes in 2014, according to the federal government’s fatality data. It is not known how many of those crashes were of the sort replicated by the insurance institute’s tests, which involve 25 percent of the front end of a vehicle striking a rigid barrier at 40 miles an hour. The test, which uses dummies, aims to show what happens when a vehicle runs off the road and strikes an object like a tree or utility pole. The insurance institute, which has been conducting this test for four years, was aware that automakers were focusing their initial safety improvement efforts on the driver’s side of vehicles  —   given that there is always a driver in the car, but not necessarily a   passenger. “Some manufacturers told us that in the short term they could make more driver’  modifications to more vehicle models to improve safety rather than making improvements to both sides,’’ said Becky Mueller, a senior research engineer at the insurance institute and the lead author of the report on the latest tests. But the expectation was that automakers would start to make modifications to the passenger side as well. “We are now four years into the testing and we want to remind manufacturers that the short term doesn’t last forever,” Mrs. Mueller said. “Consumers are going to want the same level of protection for drivers and   passengers,” she said. “They expect that when we rate a vehicle ‘good,’ it applies to both sides of the vehicle. ” The small overlap frontal test is the newest of the insurance institute’s crash tests. It began in 2012 as the institute, which is funded by the insurance industry, was trying to determine why people were still being seriously injured or killed in frontal crashes, despite seatbelts, airbags and “good” frontal crash test ratings. One of its studies of newer vehicles found that small overlap frontal crashes accounted for about 20 to 25 percent of those injuries and deaths. Automakers began redesigning their vehicles to get better scores on the new test and provide better protection. The insurance institute said that since the test’s introduction, 13 automakers have made structural changes to 97 vehicles. Because crash forces in the small frontal overlap test are concentrated on the front wheel, suspension and firewall, the passenger’s survival space can be seriously compromised by intruding structures. The front wheel can be forced back into the footwell, resulting in serious and debilitating leg and foot injuries on the driver’s side as the test dummy’s feet and legs get caught up in the metal pedals. It is also easy for drivers and passengers to hit their heads and chests against metal structures, like the instrument panel, protruding into the vehicle. “If the structure is so badly intruded, the airbag can’t do its job effectively,” Mrs. Mueller said. In the Toyota RAV4 test, the intrusion into the interior of the vehicle on the passenger’s side was 13 inches deeper than on the driver’s side. And the RAV4’s   door popped open, which in a crash would put the occupant at risk of being ejected. In 2013, when the RAV4 was tested for the first time, it got a “poor” small overlap rating. The 2015 model received a good rating, but Toyota did not make the same safety improvements to the passenger side. In a written statement responding to the new test results, Toyota said, in part: “The I. I. H. S. small overlap test is severe, specialized and goes beyond federal vehicle safety requirements. “Rather than waiting to   both driver’s and passenger’s sides,’’ Toyota added, “we took immediate steps to enhance performance on the driver’s side. ” The company said that it had incorporated safety enhancements on both sides for vehicles built on Toyota’s new platforms, beginning with the 2016 Prius. With the Nissan Rogue, maximum intrusion on the passenger side was 10 inches more than on the driver’s side, and the door hinge pillar, which is at the bottom of the passenger compartment where the rocker panel meets the A pillar  —   a front roof support  —   was torn off completely, although the door remained closed. In a written statement, Nissan said: “Nissan is committed to the safety and security of our customers and their passengers. We are aware of the I. I. H. S. testing and we are currently reviewing the details to assess opportunities for improved performance. ’’ Hyundai, meantime, was happy to promote its results. “Our 2016 Tucson’s good rating for both driver and passenger in the demanding I. I. H. S. small overlap crash test reflects our commitment to passenger safety at every level,’’ Mike O’Brien, a vice president for Hyundai Motor America, said in a statement. Here are the full results of the    tests: Driver side: GOOD Passenger side: GOOD _____ Driver side: GOOD Passenger side: ACCEPTABLE _____ Driver side: GOOD Passenger side: ACCEPTABLE _____ Driver side: GOOD Passenger side: ACCEPTABLE _____ Driver side: GOOD Passenger side: MARGINAL _____ Driver side: GOOD Passenger side: MARGINAL _____ Driver side: GOOD Passenger side: POOR