All eyes were on Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana as he accepted the vice presidential nomination at the Republican National Convention on Wednesday, its third night, and made the case for Donald J. Trump as a Christian and a conservative.  Keeping in the line of “Making America” something, the night’s theme was “Making America First Again,” and featured speeches by Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker Eric Trump, one of Mr. Trump’s sons and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, one of his former rivals. The highlights: • If you were waiting for the usual kind of convention speech, you just saw it. Mr. Pence, the nominee for vice president, delivered what may have been the only speech that closely resembled the typical presentation at a nominating convention. He thanked his family, introduced his wife, lauded his   ticked off policy ideas, made a few jokes and expressed optimism about the country and his party’s chances to win in November. “It’s change versus the status quo, and when Donald Trump is president, the change will be huge,” Mr. Pence said. He criticized Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party, describing them as “entrenched in power. ” He closed out Day 3 of the convention by declaring, “We have but one choice”  —   to elect Donald Trump the 45th president. _____ • After an extended and often soaring speech focusing on notes of freedom and American conservative ideals, Mr. Cruz refused to specifically call for Mr. Trump’s election, despite repeated shouts from the crowd to endorse him, including “We want Trump!” He chided the crowd and said, “Don’t stay home in November,” but he also told them to “vote their conscience. ” As Mr. Cruz wrapped up his extended remarks, Mr. Trump emerged from a side entrance, waving to the crowd. He joined his family in the V. I. P. box, as both the crowd and every television camera cut from Mr. Cruz just as he was delivering the crescendo to his remarks. He closed saying, “God bless America” on a split screen, as the cameras had shifted to Mr. Trump, who in a rare spontaneous moment at the often orchestrated conventions, stole the show from Mr. Cruz once more. _____ • Mr. Gingrich took the stage after a brief introduction by his wife, Callista, and attempted to clean up the   by Mr. Cruz that sent the night into momentary chaos. Citing Mr. Cruz’s line that “you can vote your conscience,” Mr. Gingrich offered “to paraphrase Ted Cruz: if you want to protect the Constitution of the United States, the only possible choice is the   Republican ticket. ” He then transitioned to a long list of national security failures, portraying Mr. Trump as the only candidate who can handle the foreign policy threats facing the country, before returning to a closing call for unity. _____ • Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, a   Trump rival, declared that Americans should choose Mr. Trump over Mrs. Clinton, repeating that “America deserves better!” Mr. Walker said he had always been clear that he would support any Republican against Mrs. Clinton in the general election. Fact Check: He was never an enthusiastic Trump fan. Mr. Walker endorsed Mr. Cruz ahead of the Wisconsin primary, and later expressed disappointment that Mr. Trump would be the party’s  . “It’s just sad in America that we have such poor choices right now,” Mr. Walker said then. _____ • Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, another former Trump rival, once called Mr. Trump a “con man,” and worse, as he fought a bitter campaign. But on Wednesday, Mr. Rubio appeared in a brief video to concede that “the time for fighting each other is over. ” The video was hardly full of enthusiasm, but he did urge voters to choose Mr. Trump over Mrs. Clinton. _____ • Eric Trump, one of Mr. Trump’s sons, offered a passionate, energetic speech on behalf of his father, describing him as the candidate who is running to make the lives of ordinary Americans better. The elder Trump sat in the audience for his son’s remarks, clapping occasionally but appearing to express displeasure as the large screen behind Eric Trump appeared to malfunction. Eric Trump said his father ran for president because he could “no longer bear witness” to America’s decline. He urged people to vote for his father, a man who “can’t be bought, sold, purchased, bribed, coerced or intimidated. ” _____ • Laura Ingraham, the conservative radio   host, energized the crowd with verbal attacks on two targets: Mrs. Clinton and the media. Ms. Ingraham called her the “woman who helped orchestrate America’s decline,” and she drew chants of “Lock her up!” when she said that “many in public office don’t enforce or respect the rule of law  —   isn’t that right, Mrs. Clinton?” She called the media her “friends,” but she accused journalists of not reporting on “the phonies, the frauds and the corruption that has gone unexposed and uncovered for too long. ” _____ • Pam Bondi, the attorney general of Florida, emphasized “laws” in her remarks, using that theme to call attention to the fatal shooting of three police officers in Baton Rouge, La. on Sunday. She drove home her riff by saying, “now more than ever, laws that back our law enforcement. They have our backs, and Donald Trump will have your backs. ” _____ • Eileen Collins, the first woman to lead a space shuttle mission, may be the only speaker at the convention to appear onstage without once mentioning the Republican Party, Mr. Trump, Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama or any other politicians. Instead, on the 47th anniversary of Neil Armstrong’s walk on the moon, Ms. Collins offered a gauzy appeal for America to be a “nation of explorers. ” One thing she never said: Support Mr. Trump for president. _____ • Mr. Trump is extremely unpopular with the Hispanic population, as numerous polls have shown, but he is not without support in the community. Ralph Alvarado, a state senator from Kentucky, took the stage to proclaim, in English and in Spanish, why Hispanics should back Mr. Trump against Mrs. Clinton. “Hispanics believe what Republicans believe,” he declared, listing off “religious liberty,” support of the Second Amendment and free speech as key examples. In Spanish, he addressed his “hermanos Hispanos,” or Hispanic brothers, saying that their families had fled countries that were plagued by corruption, and urging them to not let that corruption plague the United States.