MIAMI BEACH  —   Michal Keren David stood alone amid the confectionery swirl that draws millions to the adult playground of South Beach, clutching not a minty mojito or even a ubiquitous cellphone, but one of the very latest symbols of life here: mosquito repellent. As she spritzed herself next to a sidewalk cafe on Lincoln Road, Ms. David lamented her ill timing. Just Friday morning, as she headed to fly out of New York, bound for a weekend in Miami, she said she learned the latest news about Zika. The   virus, which can cause birth defects in fetuses, had found a new, albeit small, home on South Beach. Ordinarily, she said, she might have simply shrugged off the news. “I’m thinking of trying to get pregnant in the next month,” said Ms. David, 32. “We thought maybe about canceling, but we also thought we have to live our lives. This will get to New York City, too. It will be all over the place. ” On Friday, this rollicking southern slice of Miami Beach, a place long accustomed to boom and bust, downtrodden and glamorous, became the second official target zone of the   mosquito, Aedes aegypti, in the continental United States. The discovery forced the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to advise pregnant women not to venture into a 1.   area from Eighth to 28th Streets on one side and from the beach to the Intracoastal Waterway on the other. But federal health officials also warned them to consider postponing travel anywhere in   County. As local government and tourism officials emphasized that the safety of residents, workers and guests came first, it was hard to sidestep the obvious: Would tourists stay away from the island’s alluring beaches, hip hotels and     clubs? And if they did, what would it mean for the economy of Miami Beach  —   the superstar of the county’s $36 billion tourism industry? “As we said before, we will do everything in our power so that people feel safe,” said Miami Beach’s mayor, Philip Levine, stressing that “Miami Beach is having a record summer. ” From one moment to the next, a new protocol has taken root, one gleaned from the lessons learned in Wynwood, the small arts district across the bay that became the virus’s first hub of active transmission in the continental United States. Wynwood has suffered a sharp decline in business. Some hotels here began to slip Zika information sheets under the doors of the guest rooms. Bartenders offered patrons cans of repellent along with their shaken martinis. Electric fans, already in use to soften the suffocating heat and humidity, were cranked up high, all the easier to thwart Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. At Meat Market, a steakhouse on Lincoln Road, a teeming pedestrian mall, citronella candles quickly appeared under a row of outdoor tables on Friday moments after the news broke. Employees were asked to wear bug spray until repellent wristbands arrived. “We never really have a lot of mosquitoes,” said David Tornek, the restaurant’s chief executive, who said he hoped the problem was fleeting. He paused and added, “You hope that people look at this rationally. ” The reaction from tourists here, many of them from Europe and Latin America, seemed to swing from panicked to nonchalant. As she sat on a patch of artificial turf eating pizza and watching her    son play paddle ball, Vania Acosta  —   who is Cuban by way of Naples, Italy, and is visiting South Beach with family  —   said she quickly became paranoid. “I bought 40 cans of bug spray,” Ms. Acosta said, a turban atop her head. “I am spraying repellent in my room, in my house, right here. What worries me is that they don’t know enough about it. When I heard yesterday, I wanted to leave. ” But she is staying it is too complicated to leave. And, she said, she is enamored of the South Beach vibe, a mix of ethnicities and lifestyles, where   women stride past   Doc Martens lovers, all to the murmur of palm trees and foreign languages. “Like the woman I saw wearing a long black   and a white wedding veil,” she said. “I love it here I love the people here. ” Strolling past Art Deco hotels on Ocean Drive, South Beach’s most crowded stretch, Lorenzo Villa, 24, a graduate student at West Virginia University who arrived Friday morning for a week’s vacation, made one accommodation: He bought bug repellent. Beyond that, he expects his vacation will be worry free. “Honestly, I don’t think it’s an issue,” said Mr. Villa, who was born in Argentina and grew up in Annapolis, Md. “I don’t see any mosquitoes. Maybe it’s only a problem if there’s a big swarm. I’m pretty chill. ” There are mosquitoes on Miami Beach, but, with its strong breezes and saltwater barriers, the chain of islands is less hospitable to mosquitoes than other parts of the county. But it is also dense, with plenty of old buildings full of nooks and crannies. The city is also hampered in turning to a tactic that helped Wynwood reduce its population of aegypti: the aerial spraying of Naled. The area, with its beaches, ocean and   buildings, is not suited for it, county officials said. Getting tourists to comply with   rules, though, will not be easy. People come here to escape obligations and to strip down to the bare essentials. Long sleeves and admonishments are not really welcome. Sex, though, is often on a   list, raising concerns that the virus will spread through sexual transmission. For the most part, those visitors who are not pregnant or pondering pregnancy seemed unfazed and  . “There is always something going on,” said Yesenia Medina, 40, a respiratory therapist from Miami who sat at an outdoor bar, Campton Yard, which had installed automatic insecticide misters even before the Zika scare. “Now it’s Zika, and last month, it was something else. ” But, with a laugh, Ms. Medina said she heard a rescue plan was in the works. “Donald Trump is building a net over the beach, and he’s getting the mosquitoes to pay for it,” she said, riffing on the Republican presidential nominee’s plan to erect a wall on the Southern border and have Mexico pay for it. As the sun inched below the horizon and a   moon glinted over the ocean, Claudia Iraheta, 21, a hostess, stood nearby at the Penguin Hotel cafe, cradling menus over her pronounced belly. The Zika virus is no casual concern for her. She is five months pregnant. “It’s a baby girl,” she said happily. Friday, she said, was an especially long and worrisome day. She thought twice about going to work, where she stands outside promoting the cafe to  . “I was scared, paranoid,” said Ms. Iraheta, who moved to Miami from El Salvador a decade ago. But work is work, so she slathered on mosquito repellent and put on long pants, despite the sweltering heat. On Monday, she will head to the doctor to be tested for the virus. She says she does not think she has been exposed. “In the name of God, I hope not,” Ms. Iraheta said.