On a chilly morning in November, Lt. Donzel Cleare of the New York Police Department stood in front of a classroom at Liberation Diploma Plus High School in Coney Island and asked a simple question: “How many of you guys feel that I work for you?” Before him, in desks arranged around three sides of the room, sat roughly 15 students, mostly male, with a group of girls gathered together on one side. Most of them were black or Hispanic, and because Liberation is a   transfer school, virtually all of them had dropped out or fallen behind at other schools. Not a single student raised a hand. A few actually laughed. They were there at the beginning of a monthslong course, conceived by Liberation’s founding principal, April Leong, as an experiment in bridging the gap between New York City’s police and young people from a poor, minority community in Brooklyn. An elective class called the Junior Citizens Police Academy, it met weekly and was made up of students selected by Ms. Leong, in some cases because they had expressed negative feelings about the police. It is a common sentiment in the neighborhood around Liberation. The 60th Precinct, which includes Coney Island, has nine public housing projects, some with   feuds between their residents. Last year there were 23 shootings in the precinct. This year, as of Aug. 28, there were nine  —   half as many as there were by this time last year, though it is unclear why the total is down. A number of Liberation’s students have had friends or family members killed. Some have watched fathers, brothers or friends go to prison. Others have themselves been incarcerated. Two years ago, Manuel Ocampo, an    student, was shot in the head and killed by a retired police officer. The police said that Mr. Ocampo had a gun and was trying to rob the former officer and steal his car. The shooting was determined to be   and the former officer was not charged. The week before he died, Mr. Ocampo had given a short speech at school, thanking his mother and Ms. Leong for helping him to turn his life around. Ms. Leong keeps a photograph of him on the wall next to her desk. It is no surprise that many of Ms. Leong’s students are suspicious of and hostile to the police. They are mostly resigned to the idea that officers will never be held accountable for what the students see as mistreatment of black people. Lieutenant Cleare, the commanding officer of the housing bureau’s community affairs unit, said later that he knew what the students’ response would be before he even asked the question, but he saw it as a way to get them talking. “It was very important when I came in there to let them voice their true feelings and opinions and concerns,” he said. “I didn’t want them to feel that this was going to be a brainwashing session. ” But the skepticism he faced from the students was   especially about the idea that community residents should help the police stop crime. “That’s not going to happen,” a young man named Jahkhil said at the end of the first class. (He, like most of the other students, is being identified by only his given name at the school’s request, so that the details of their lives don’t affect their future opportunities.) “It’s just a rule  —   you just don’t snitch,” he said. “You can’t snitch. ” The consequences for those who do are clear. “You going to be looked at a certain type of way,” he added, “and certain people are going to want to kill you. ” As politicians, police officials, civil rights activists and others talk about how to change relationships between the police and poor minority communities, there has been little discussion of what role schools might play. The city’s Education Department has made some modest efforts. In May, more than 300 elementary schools received visits from officers from their local precincts, who read to students or led physical education classes or other activities. But there was little preparation, and the program was not aimed at neighborhoods where mistrust of the police is most pervasive. On July 14, after the shootings of Alton Sterling in Louisiana and Philando Castile in Minnesota, and then of five police officers in Dallas, New York City’s schools chancellor, Carmen Fariña, sent a letter to principals, teachers and other department staff members asking for lesson plans to address topics of civil rights, guns and violence. She also asked for suggestions about how schools could develop relationships with local police precincts. But few if any schools have attempted a program as intense as the one at Liberation. Ms. Leong and Lieutenant Cleare plan to repeat the class this year, with more field trips and   activities. Over the   course, they intend to have the students tour the 60th Precinct’s station house and the new headquarters of the local housing police unit, Police Service Area 1. Liberation occupies a former Catholic school building on the corner of West 19th Street and Mermaid Avenue. Its enrollment varies throughout the year but hovers around 200 students. More than half of the students are black, and close to a third are Hispanic. Eighty percent qualify for free lunch. At their former schools, these students slipped through the cracks. Ms. Leong’s goal is to not let that happen again. For her students, not graduating from high school means facing grim life prospects. According to the Brookings Institution, a research organization based in Washington, black men born in the late 1970s who did not graduate from high school had a nearly 70 percent chance of being imprisoned by their  . That was higher than their chances of being employed. For both male and female students, not completing high school means a high likelihood of a lifetime of poverty. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in 2014, black high school dropouts age 25 and older had a median weekly income of $440. Female high school dropouts of all races fared even worse, with a median weekly income of $409. Some observers have identified what they call a “   pipeline,” in which young black and Hispanic men are funneled into the criminal justice system by punitive school disciplinary standards. When Ms. Leong heard last year that a    drug addict had fatally shot a police officer in East Harlem, her first thought was about school. She wondered what New York City schools the man, Tyrone Howard, had attended and what chances were missed to put him on a better path in life. Her approach is shaped by her own background. She was born in Brooklyn to a    mother and a    father. She did well academically but was pregnant by the time she graduated from high school. She often tells students about how she took her infant son to her orientation at Baruch College because she didn’t have a babysitter. When she saw other students staring at her and whispering, she wanted to leave and never come back  —   just as they might feel out of place when they get to college, she tells them. But her adviser in a program for   students encouraged her, and she stayed, graduating and ultimately becoming a teacher and then an administrator. She started Liberation in 2007. The son she had at 18 went to Yale, and her younger son is now a student at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Lieutenant Cleare, 47, who is black, grew up in Rosedale, a suburban section of southeast Queens. Like the students at Liberation, he said, he and his friends didn’t like the police officers in their neighborhood, most of whom were white. “They would be using the   they would be slamming you up against walls,” he said. He went to York College in Queens, where he was the captain of the basketball team. After York, even though friends and cousins who had become police officers tried to persuade him to join the force, he took a job as a high school drug counselor. He finally became an officer when he was 29. He has spent 14 of his 18 years on the force doing youth development and community outreach. At Liberation, he approached the students as something of a father figure. But if the divide between black communities and the police is often characterized as a confrontation between black and blue, Lieutenant Cleare was clearly speaking from the blue side. “When there’s shooting around your way  —   ’cause there’s shootings all the time  —   when people are running away from the gunfire, who’s running toward the gunfire?” he asked. “Cops,” the students said. “Does it happen in a white neighborhood?” No, the students conceded. He acknowledged that not all officers were model public servants. “I’m going to say that to you right now: There’s a bunch of idiots out there,” Lieutenant Cleare said the first day. But over the months he did not engage in deep discussions about misconduct or police brutality, and as the students sometimes pointed out, he tended to put the onus for improving the relationship on them. He compared getting stopped by the police to being robbed at gunpoint and asked why people did not respond to commands from an officer as they would to orders coming from any other person with a gun. “Your most important priority when you get into an interaction with the Police Department is to leave the same way you came,” he said. “Just like the robber comes to you and says, ‘Yo, run that,’”  —   he demonstrated demanding someone’s money  —   “your whole goal is to walk away safe and sound. ” But instead, he said, people often talked back to the police. Lieutenant Cleare explained: “You think  —   and this is what’s crazy  —   on one hand, you think, Oh, it’s just a cop. There’s a certain level of trust. That’s why you can disrespect that officer, because you feel, at the end of the day, ‘You just a cop  —   you got that badge and gun, but you’re really not going to use it. ’” The students were not buying it. “Talking is different than touching somebody,” Bobby, 19, objected. “I can say whatever I want, ’cause it’s only my mouth  —   freedom of speech  —   but you can’t touch me. ” Another student, Shanell, said, “You’re saying because they have guns, because they have badges, we can just be disrespected!” “No!” Lieutenant Cleare said, throwing up his hands in frustration. At times, their views of the world seemed unbridgeable. Lieutenant Cleare said residents of Coney Island did not do enough to stop crime, because they refused to talk to the police. “You basically want people to start snitching,” Bobby said. “Define what a snitch is, Bobby,” Lieutenant Cleare responded. “Someone not intimidated to communicate  —   that’s what Ms. Leong told us,” Shanell said, sounding dubious. “Once we snitch, who come in guns blazing for us?” Lieutenant Cleare encouraged them to take the first step and be friendly to the scared rookie officer on the street. In a class in January, he said most officers would be dumbfounded if the students said a simple “Good morning” or “Be safe, officer. ” He went on, “How am I supposed to know that you’re a good guy unless you show me?” Bobby wondered why things couldn’t run the other way. “How about if you show me something, I show you something?” he asked. “How we always got to show you something and you can’t show us anything?” Bobby was a star of Liberation’s basketball team and the unofficial ringleader of the policing class. The other students listened closely to him, and he delighted in making them erupt in laughter. He lived in a nearby housing project and was the youngest of 10 children, one of eight brothers. He transferred to the school from Abraham Lincoln High School in fall 2014, when he should have been a senior. He broke his ankle in the winter of his sophomore year and skipped most of the rest of the year, he said. Bobby said he was uneasy around the police in part because he had seen one of his older brothers arrested inside their apartment when he was around 8. “I see one cop with a gun to his head, and one cop having him lay down with his knee in his back,” he recalled. “I thought I was about to see him die right in front of me or something  —   it was crazy. ” His brother went to prison for five years, though Bobby wasn’t sure what the charges were. “I think for robbery and assault,” he said. That experience, he said, was one reason he would never inform on someone to the police. “If you tell on somebody,” he said in January, “they got a whole family that they probably had to provide for in a situation where, in the streets, it’s hard. ” And yet his own family had been victimized by violent crime. His eldest brother, then 29, was shot and killed the previous school year. Bobby had been willing to give Lieutenant Cleare a chance partly because he trusted Ms. Leong so much. She had supported him after the killing. According to the police, his brother was visiting a female friend on Staten Island when her former boyfriend showed up they argued and the man shot him. Ms. Leong and two other staff members went to the funeral. Bobby said he had gone a little crazy for a while, thinking about tracking the man down and shooting him with his brother’s gun, but his surviving brothers talked him out of it. The man was arrested and indicted on a count of   murder, among other charges. He is currently on Rikers Island and awaiting trial. But Bobby said he would have preferred that the man hadn’t been arrested. He would have preferred that he be dead. At Liberation, violence never seemed to be far away. In   the cousin of one student was murdered in East New York, Brooklyn. The next day, another man was found dead behind one of the Coney Island projects, in what some suspected was retaliation. The week after the killings, Lieutenant Cleare talked in class about his own youth and how close he came to getting into serious trouble. At one point when he was a teenager, he said, he bought a gun to try to settle a dispute and hid it in the back seat of his aunt’s car, which sat in the driveway but was never used. Then his stepfather found it. Jahkhil, 19, who is slight, with tendrils of hair framing his face, laughed. “You got snitched,” he said. “I came home,” Lieutenant Cleare said, “and I heard my mother on the phone: ‘All I know is that the bullets are the size of C batteries! ’” “If I had ended up using that,” he added, “I wouldn’t be here today. ” One day in February, another young man, skinny and tattooed, said that the class was helping him understand why the police did certain things, but that he didn’t think his views would ever fundamentally change. He said he resented the police because his father had gone to prison for eight years, starting when he was 10. “My birthday was like the day before he got locked up,” he said. “Imagine, 10 years old, birthday  —   you think you’re about to get presents, everything. ” He said he had been close to his father when he was younger, but now they did not understand each other, and he had seen him only once since he was released from prison last year. Before coming to Liberation he attended Franklin Delano Roosevelt High School, from which he should have graduated in 2015. (Asked why he fell behind, he smiled and said, “They had too many girls over there. ”) Still, he said he was confident he would graduate in June, as long as he could pass the algebra Regents exam that month. But just four days later, he was arrested along with a younger boy and charged with robbery. According to a criminal complaint, he pointed a BB gun at several young people and took two cellphones. The police arrested them on a bus, nine blocks west of the school. His first day back at Liberation, a little over two weeks later, the policing class met but Lieutenant Cleare couldn’t make it, so Ms. Leong talked to the students about a coming field trip to Baruch College. After class, she approached the young man, who hung his head and looked embarrassed. In a voice barely above a whisper, he said that he hadn’t wanted to come to school that day, but he had pushed himself. “I’m just trying to stay focused,” he said. Ms. Leong asked gently, “You want to speak to Cleare?” The young man nodded. She dialed her phone and handed it to him. He spoke quietly for several minutes, explaining his version of the story, and listened to Lieutenant Cleare, who told him it was important that he find a good lawyer and take responsibility for his actions. Ms. Leong said later that she worried the student would become discouraged and drop out. He was already 20, so he had little time left to graduate before he aged out of the public school system at 21. In March, Detective Joseph Agosto, a firearms instructor at the Police Academy, came to the class with the department’s firearms simulator. The law enforcement equivalent of a video game, it lets participants act out various policing scenarios. The instructor gives the details of a 911 call to which the police are responding. Then the scene is projected on a screen. The participants  —   usually police recruits  —   can talk to the characters and give commands. They can use pepper spray or a baton. Or they can shoot a gun or a Taser. If they hit a character in the right spot, the character will fall. Detective Agosto told the class that his responsibility was to train police officers to avoid getting shot. He said the Supreme Court had set a standard known as objective reasonableness for deciding whether an officer was justified in using force. He said it meant that an officer did not have to be right to shoot, but only to respond reasonably. Vinnette Carrasquillo, 20, was about to graduate that month, six and a half years after starting high school she had missed a year and a half while she was pregnant and after her daughter was born. She said she had heard that police officers were trained to shoot to kill and asked if that was true. “That’s a complete fallacy,” Detective Agosto said, “but that’s what people want you to hear. ” As it turned out, when the students took their turns at the simulator, they were more than ready to use lethal force. In one scenario, two students shot a mentally disturbed woman in an alley who was brandishing a pair of scissors. In another, Jahkhil and Jonathan, a classmate, responded to a call about a burglar alarm going off at a warehouse and found a man inside standing behind a table, with one of his hands hidden. Jonathan pointed his gun. They ordered the man to put his hands up. He argued with them instead. When he lifted one of his hands holding a metal object, Jahkhil and Jonathan opened fire, and the man fell. Only afterward did they see that the object was a staple gun. The class hooted, and Jahkhil burst into tense laughter. “You’re laughing, right, because what did you just do?” Detective Agosto said. “Killed him,” Jahkhil said. “You shot a guy with a staple gun,” Detective Agosto said. Why would someone do that, the students asked. “There’s a phenomenon called suicide by cop  —   it happens all the time,” Detective Agosto said. One scenario involved a shooting at a minimart, which led to a firefight with the perpetrator. In another situation, two students were told they were responding to a call about a domestic dispute. “Is there kids in the house?” asked Alisha, one of the students. She had transferred to Liberation from Lincoln in the fall, not because she was behind, she said, but because she wanted to be in a smaller school. Like Vinnette, she was about to graduate. Looking in the window of the house, Alisha, 18, and her partner, Malik, 19, saw a man with his back turned leaning over a couch, and a woman screaming in terror. When they called out, the man turned around. In his hands was a shotgun, which was pointed right at them. Malik froze, but Alisha sprang into action. She fired 10 rounds, missing once or twice, then hitting him in the elbow and the torso. She fired a couple of rounds after he fell. When she went back to her seat, her hands were shaking, and after a minute tears started streaming down her face. Ms. Leong rubbed her shoulder, and Detective Agosto asked why she was emotional. “Because that’s a common situation, personally,” she said. “You have to think of it this way,” Detective Agosto said. “You may have shot this guy. But what did I do? I also saved his wife. ” After the students ran through five scenarios, Detective Agosto’s partner, Officer Steven Malone, made an observation. Of the five scenarios, he said, only the conflict at the minimart had to end with the police firing their guns. “You shot everybody,” he said. Vinnette nodded. “Then we sit here: ‘Cops are killing everybody,’” she said. Lieutenant Cleare asked how the students who had fired their weapons felt. Alisha said she felt sympathy with officers. Bobby, who sat in the back and was unusually quiet, said, “I understood, like, why they do what they do. ” “You all human,” said Jahkhil, “just like us. ” A young woman in the policing class, who asked to be identified by only her middle name, Marie, began missing class in February. Marie, 20, was in her third year at Liberation and close to graduating, but she had recently been kicked out of her mother’s apartment and had lost custody of her    son to the city’s Administration for Children’s Services. At one point, she sent Ms. Leong a text message saying she had to leave school because she’d had little to eat in the past two days and didn’t feel well. Pointing to her own background, Ms. Leong urges students to recognize the disadvantages they face at home but not to use them as an excuse. Instead of offering Marie sympathy, Ms. Leong noted that she could have asked for food from the school’s pantry, which is stocked with pasta and other staples for students who do not have enough to eat at home. “She said, ‘I don’t want to keep asking,’” Ms. Leong said later. “I said, ‘That’s your choice. ’” Although Ms. Leong is tough on students, she is not punitive, even when they curse at her or other staff members. She said that some teachers wanted her to be more harsh. But when students are accustomed to being hurt by the people closest to them, she said, a suspension often has little impact. “They say it out loud  —   ‘So what? ’” Ms. Leong said. “‘My mother just kicked me out. Kick me out, too? Go right ahead. ’” Ms. Leong said it was usually more effective to talk with students than to suspend them. “Taking ownership and apologizing and ‘what am I going to do different’ is different for them, and I think they learn to respect that,” she said. As the year went on, Lieutenant Cleare continued to emphasize that students could change their relationship with the police by extending some basic courtesy. And he offered his own friendship. He cheered on the basketball team at its championship game in February, and in May he challenged the players to a game at the Coney Island Y. M. C. A. against him and a group of fellow officers. The students won both games. He attended graduation in June, and in August he helped Ms. Leong organize what she called a unity barbecue at the school for current students and recent graduates, their families and officers from the 60th Precinct and PSA 1. If the goal of the Junior Citizens Police Academy was to change the dynamic between the students and the police, it did not work miracles or magically erase a legacy of distrust. Many of the students remained wary of the police and still believed that many officers were racist. But they had developed, in many cases for the first time, a close relationship with a police officer, as well as some respect for the challenges of policing and the risks officers take to protect the public. Bobby and Jahkhil both became interested in law enforcement as a career, which in turn sharpened their interest in college as a necessary step on that path. Often, what Lieutenant Cleare said in class discussions mattered less than that he was there at all. Jonathan, 19, who grew up in Coney Island with Bobby and, like him, transferred to Liberation from Lincoln, said the basketball game against the officers had affected his feelings about the police more than anything in the class had. “I could tell they had love for the game, like I do,” he said. He added that even though he never confided in Lieutenant Cleare about something deeply personal, he now felt that he could. Lieutenant Cleare said the class had affected him, too. “It actually just gave me more insight to the struggle that our kids face  —   the real struggle that they have being in an urban community,” he said. Even though he works with students often, he explained, he rarely has the chance to build close relationships with them. “This class enabled me to develop those bonds, where they were comfortable enough to talk to me about issues and be real,” he said. Lieutenant Cleare said he was considering going back to work in schools as a counselor when he is eligible to retire from the department in two years. The school year ended in June. Alisha, Bobby, Marie and Vinnette graduated. Jonathan, who had finished all his credits but had not passed the global history Regents test, failed the exam in June and then again in August and is now back at Liberation, studying to retake it in January. The student who was arrested in February did not drop out, and he attended every meeting of the policing class. Ms. Leong made him one of her interns, which meant that he worked for her after school and helped host community events, and he went to summer school. She expects him to graduate in December. His court case is in preliminary and evidentiary hearings. By the time of the shootings in Louisiana and Minnesota, the students had scattered. Ms. Leong said she had spoken with some of them, and they wondered whether the officers in those encounters had received sufficient training. She said of the students’ reaction: “Their thing was, This is why more of us should think about going into law enforcement, because we need to change who is in law enforcement, so that they wouldn’t be racist or have stereotypes in their heads or be so afraid to deal with us that you’re ready to shoot us. ” She hopes that offering the class again this year will keep alive the conversations about policing and racial justice that were stirred up by recent events. Too often, she said, her students become angry but don’t think they can change anything, so they move on. “That level of empowerment or voice just seems out of their reach,” she said. Ms. Leong wants to convince her students that they have a voice. She plans to ask some of the students from the previous class to speak to a group of high school principals to encourage them to consider organizing similar programs. And in the future, she hopes to raise money to take the students to other cities to talk to young people there about what they learned. Bobby, who started taking classes last month at Borough of Manhattan Community College, said the shootings of Mr. Sterling and Mr. Castile made him angry. He said he still believed that the majority of police officers, at least outside New York City, were racist. But before the class, he said, he would have condemned all police officers as a group. “There just would have been no respect,” he said. Now his perspective had shifted somewhat. “I got respect for those who have respect for me,” he said. “That’s how I feel now. ”