(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. How often do we get to start off with good news? The Census Bureau’s latest report showed that U. S. household income grew 5. 2 percent last year, the fastest rate since at least 1967. There were especially large declines in the poverty rates among   and Hispanic households. Many economists greeted the report with ebullience. The chairman of President Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers tweeted that this was “unambiguously the best” such census data “ever. ” _____ 2. Hillary Clinton is recovering from pneumonia at her home in Chappaqua, N. Y. so President Obama campaigned for her. “We cannot afford suddenly to treat this like a reality show,” he told an enthusiastic crowd in Philadelphia. Mrs. Clinton’s illness highlighted the gap left by her campaign’s   strategy, leaving her team without a positive message to focus on in her absence. Donald Trump sought to seize campaign momentum, with appearances in Des Moines and, with his daughter Ivanka, in Philadelphia, where he will talk about maternity leave and child care. His running mate, Mike Pence, met with the Republican National Committee and some Republican leaders, but failed to persuade them to rally behind Mr. Trump. _____ 3. “I think people today feel disappointed, frustrated, ticked off or just plain sad, or a combination of all of the above. ” That was the head of a sports organization in North Carolina, a day after the N. C. A. A. pulled its championship events from the state over a law limiting the rights of gay and transgender people. Frustration was running particularly high among Republicans, and in areas that have supported L. G. B. T. rights, where people feel unfairly punished. _____ 4. Russian computer hackers published documents showing that three renowned U. S. athletes  —   Serena Williams, Venus Williams and Simone Biles  —   obtained medical exemptions to use banned drugs. The World   Agency, the source of the documents, denounced the effort to smear athletes who had received permission to use “a needed medication. ” The hackers, a group known as Tsar Team or Fancy Bear, said they would release records of athletes from around the world. Many Russians were barred from the Rio Olympics after a vast   doping program came to light. _____ 5. What a difference a film festival can make. Forecasts for the coming Oscars season shifted after several films received powerfully positive receptions in Toronto. The most buzz went to “Lion,” a film by Harvey Weinstein’s company based on the true story of a    Indian boy who steps on the wrong train and is separated from his family  —   and who, years later, sets out to find his parents. “Harvey’s baaack,” a longtime Academy Awards handicapper wrote on Twitter. _____ 6.   activists and health experts made a personal appeal to President Obama to ban menthol cigarettes. The flavoring, which makes it easier to start smoking and harder to quit, is embraced by four out of five black smokers. About 45, 000   die a year from   illnesses, and black men have the highest lung cancer mortality rate of any demographic group. _____ 7. The U. S. completed a $38 billion,   package of military aid for Israel, the largest of its kind ever, American officials said. The aid includes financing for missile defense systems that defend against rockets fired by groups like Hezbollah and Hamas, and phases out a provision allowing Israel to buy Israeli arms, instead channeling the money only to U. S.  military systems. Above, Israeli forces on drills. Shimon Peres, 93 and one of the last living founders of the modern state of Israel, suffered a serious stroke. _____ 8. A Syrian   appeared to be largely holding on its second day. But aid convoys idled, still waiting for word that routes into the besieged city of Aleppo were secure. The   part of a deal between the U. S. and Russia, calls for the two to share targeting information on Islamic State forces if the   holds for seven days. But skepticism of the unusual collaboration, which Secretary of State John Kerry brokered with his Russian counterpart, above, is running high within the U. S. military and the White House. _____ 9. What’s in the Kaaba, or cube, the black building that encloses the most sacred space in Islam? That was one of the questions readers sent to our correspondent who is on the annual hajj in Saudi Arabia. Very few people have been inside, she answered, but what’s interesting is how few objects are there. “Muslims are internalizing in every prayer that the one god they worship cannot be represented in an image and cannot be imagined, to the point where the house sanctified to God is empty,” she wrote. Watch a video of her experiences, above. _____ 10. Finally, while there’s been a run on a credit card with a $450 annual fee with a lavish rewards program, a professor of economics has pointed out that many of us don’t pinch our pennies in the right spots. He notes that consumers often waste money by chasing deals that offer a big percentage of savings  —   but in dollars and cents, not so much. Think about money in absolute terms, he urges: “After all, when your shopping is done, it is dollars  —   not percentages  —   that will be in your bank account. ” _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.