Surrounded by her five grandchildren who live with her, Sandra Parker asserted her unconditional love for each one. The oldest, Akiea Brewer, 19, who identifies as transgender, interrupted to express her doubt. Ms. Parker’s reply was swift and unequivocal: “I was never mad at you for being who you are. What did I tell you? Be who you are. Don’t follow and try to be who someone else is. ” Ms. Parker has never been one to mince words. She believes her directness does not dilute her warmth and affection. “Sometimes I can be really harsh,” Ms. Parker acknowledged. “Sometimes you just have to say what you have to say. You can’t pussyfoot with kids. ” An unwavering dedication to family is what led Ms. Parker, 58, to take custody of many of her grandchildren over the years, stepping up when her children could not. For example, the mother of four of Ms. Parker’s grandchildren who live with her lives in Florida and is dealing with health issues. Ms. Parker credits her ceaseless devotion to the aunt who took her in at age 48, whom Ms. Parker calls her adoptive mother. “She was just a gem. She was precious,” Ms. Parker said. “I could never ask for a better mother. She loved me as if she birthed me into the world. ” Ms. Parker said she had showered her own four children with that same unrelenting affection. Her approach to motherhood was as tough as it was tender. If one of her sons was hanging out with the wrong crowd, she did not hesitate to yank him off street corners. One son’s friends were so worried that his mother was bringing attention to the group that they told him he could no longer associate with them. “I live what I live in front of the children,” Ms. Parker said. “They don’t see me robbing, stealing, doing all those things. They don’t see those things. ” Her parental role extended to several of her children’s friends, whom she welcomed into her home. Even now, her door is open to all. Friends regularly drop by her Bronx apartment to chat and laugh. Children in the neighborhood greet her on the sidewalk. Ms. Parker, a widow, moved to New York from Florida in 2012. She came for love  —   to be with a man she had met on vacation. They are now engaged. Because of the values she has instilled in them, Ms. Parker said, she does not worry for her grandchildren. “I was always told children emulate what they see,” she said. “If you raise them good and do the best that you can do, and they see this, then somewhere in their heart, it’s going to be stored. ” She has long demonstrated her willingness to care for them. That respect is returned to her, and she demands that her grandchildren offer it to their absent parents, too. “A lot of grandparents allow their grandchildren to call them ‘Mother,’ but that’s not who I am,” she said. “I’m their grandmother. I never allowed them to call me Mother. They have a mother. I’m just taking her place right now, but she’s still your mother. ” Health problems, including diabetes and heart disease, prevent Ms. Parker from working. Each month, she receives $630 from Social Security, $123 in survivor benefits and $376 in federal benefits for one of her grandchildren. She also receives $771 in food stamps and $310 in cash from public assistance. Ms. Parker is responsible for paying $246 toward her $1, 541 monthly rent the bulk of it is paid by a Family Eviction Prevention Subsidy provided by New York State. Through the Visiting Nurse Service, Ms. Parker contacted the Family Center, an affiliate of FPWA, formerly the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies. FPWA is one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. A Family Center caseworker noticed that much of the family’s furniture was badly worn. The caseworker applied for a grant from FPWA, and Ms. Parker was approved for a grant for $1, 000 in August to buy new furniture. “It feels more like home because I didn’t have anywhere for people to sit,” she said. That home is still very close quarters, which leads to the occasional fight. But her family makes the most of it, Ms. Parker said, and has learned to navigate the different personalities in a limited space. Ms. Parker wishes she had moments of calm and solitude. “There’s never a moment,” she said. “Not even when I take a shower, because somebody’s knocking on the door. Oh, my Lord. ” Ms. Parker said her home was brimming with love, giving her reason to anticipate an even brighter future. “I hope the children do well, finish school and my fiancé and I get married and sail away somewhere,” she said.