The United Nations resumed aid convoys to besieged communities in Syria on Thursday for the first time since a deadly attack on trucks loaded with supplies on Monday. But that accomplishment seemed fragile as talks in New York between the United States and Russia failed to produce agreement on how to restore a   in Syria, and as the Syrian military announced that it had begun a new offensive in eastern Aleppo and warned residents to stay away from rebel positions. That announcement was made after two days of intensive bombing of eastern Aleppo by the   Syrian forces. A   aid convoy left Damascus on Thursday with supplies for 40, 000 people in Moadamiya, a suburb of the capital, according to Jan Egeland, a United Nations special adviser for humanitarian affairs. Officials said later that the convoy had arrived in the afternoon, after delays but without incident. “We seem to be getting the permits and support we need,” Mr. Egeland said, while cautioning that the attack on the convoy on Monday, the deadliest in Syria’s   civil war, had cast doubt on the safety and reliability of procedures that have provided the basis for aid deliveries to millions of Syrians. The Syrian government prohibited United Nations staff members from accompanying the convoy earlier in the week, Mr. Egeland said. “We were not there,” he told reporters Thursday in Geneva. “As U. N. we were not allowed in. ” The presence of United Nations officials can shield local relief workers in dangerous areas. Monday’s mission by the Syrian Arab Red Crescent had no such cover. “We need a reboot, a restart for security assurances and guarantees for the humanitarian lifeline,” Mr. Egeland said, adding that the United Nations had trucks loaded and ready to leave for other besieged towns, including Madaya, Kfarya, Fouaa and Zabadani, before the end of the week. Hours later, Secretary of State John Kerry said that he had exchanged ideas to restore the   with his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov. He suggested that the onus was now on Russia to uphold the previous agreement and to respond to Mr. Kerry’s proposals with credible ideas of its own. “If the Russians come back to us with constructive proposals, we will listen,” Mr. Kerry said in a statement he read to reporters. “The key is to restore credibility where there is none. ” Mr. Kerry declined to take questions and did not provide more details. It was not immediately clear what ideas were being discussed or why the Obama administration believes its diplomatic efforts with the Russians might yet succeed after days of frustrating exchanges. Hopes had been raised earlier this week that the International Syria Support Group, the multinational body that has been trying to maintain the   would agree to urgent measures to revive it. Chief among the proposals on the table was Mr. Kerry’s call for a ban on military flights in “key areas,” which he put forward on Wednesday before the United Nations Security Council. A senior Foreign Ministry official in Moscow rejected that idea. “This plan is unworkable,” said Sergei A. Ryabkov, the deputy foreign minister, according to the RIA news agency. The United States and other supporters of rebel groups trying to topple Mr. Assad must ensure that they lay down their arms, he added. Mr. Kerry’s proposal would prevent another aid convoy from being struck by banning planes from flying over areas where the assistance is to be delivered, and American officials have cast the proposal as a test of Russia’s intentions. American officials have said intelligence information indicates that it was a Russian aircraft that bombed the convoy headed to the besieged city of Aleppo on Monday. The Russians have denied the allegation and questioned whether an airstrike even occurred. At this stage, Mr. Kerry said in his statement, only “major gestures,” like banning warplanes over areas, would be sufficient to revive the rapidly vanishing hopes that a   agreement can be reinstated and endure. A senior Obama administration official told reporters on Thursday evening that the meeting of the International Syria Support Group had been “pretty contentious” and that he was unsure whether an agreement was still possible. While the administration is not closing the door to new ideas from Moscow, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in accordance with diplomatic protocol, any Russian proposals need to include major steps to stop the violence. The death toll in Monday’s attack remains uncertain. In an interview with The Associated Press published on Thursday, President Bashar   of Syria denied involvement and sought to shift the blame to opposition groups. “Those convoys were in the area of the militants, the area under the control of the terrorists,” he said. “We don’t have any idea about what happened. ”   areas of Aleppo endured heavy airstrikes overnight, including with incendiary weapons, leaving a breakthrough in peace talks looking like a distant prospect. Strikes on Thursday destroyed one of the city’s two water treatment stations, serving both   and   areas, according to activists and medical workers in Aleppo. The Syrian military’s declaration of its new offensive was reported by   websites and by RT, the satellite network financed by the Russian government. As violence reignited, trucks carrying food and medicine for Aleppo remained on the border with Turkey, unable to move from the customs zone where they have been stuck for a week until government forces and armed groups pull back from the road leading into the city, Mr. Egeland said. Mr. Assad, in his interview with The A. P. denied that Aleppo was under siege, but Mr. Egeland told reporters that it was encircled by military forces and that “it’s impossible to get in. ”