They treaded water for seven hours before a neighbor heard their screams. On Oct. 29, 2012, Hurricane Sandy flooded Staten Island. As the storm surge peaked at 14 feet in the borough  —   among the highest levels across New York City  —   the water crashed through the walls of their house, and DeBraan Varvaro and her younger sister, Carolyn Varvaro, clung to the gutter of their roof and did not let go. They waved frantically as helicopters circled overhead, but no one saw or heard them over the roaring water. “We could swim before we could walk,” the elder Ms. Varvaro said of her childhood on Staten Island’s beaches and teenage years as a lifeguard. “We’re ocean people. That’s why we survived. ” Her sister grew tired in the water, and Ms. Varvaro held her up as she treaded water. In the second hour, a garden statue of the Virgin Mary floated past. The younger Ms. Varvaro saw it as a sign they would survive. She kicked with renewed hope. Finally, at 6 p. m. a neighbor, crouched in his attic, heard the women’s screams. He helped them get the attention of more neighbors, and a young man swam through the water, filled with sewage, dead fish and gasoline, to pull them out. They were safe. But everything changed after the storm. They no longer felt safe. Over four years later, the night of the hurricane, and all the nights after, still haunt them. The elder Ms. Varvaro, now 61, a pack of her favorite Seneca cigarettes within reach, recalled in a recent interview the continuing terror, while propping her legs on a stool to ease back pain from a 1993 car accident. She cried, stopping at times midthought to find the words to describe her ordeal. Ms. Varvaro had feared displacing her sister, who is schizophrenic, so they decided to stay. The night before Hurricane Sandy hit, however, they called 911 for help, but the line was busy and they could not get through. They were among 236, 000 residents in impacted zones who did not evacuate their home before the storm, according to city estimates. Now, the sound of sirens still puts Ms. Varvaro in a panic, jolting her back to the hours spent treading water and praying for help. When she tries to sleep, she said, she hears “the    of the helicopters circling overhead. ” She did not return to the beach until last summer. “I couldn’t even get to the boardwalk,” she said. “I’d have to stop. I could still smell the storm. ” In 2012, Ms. Varvaro was told that she had   stress disorder. Even before the storm, her life had its difficulties. Pregnant at 23, she almost lost the pregnancy twice because of medical complications, but gave birth to a healthy daughter. The next year, in 1979, she learned she had cervical cancer, underwent surgery and fought it off. But it returned aggressively 10 years later, and she fought it again. Everything seemed fine until 2000, when the cancer returned a third time. She has been free of cancer since surgery in May 2000, and hopes to keep the disease in the past. “I’ve met the devil and survived,” she said with a shrug. “I came out the winner. ” Before her last bout with cancer, she met Kevin Killea, a sales representative, and they were together for 16 years. He died of pneumonia in 2010, and she has been alone since, except for her sister. Ms. Varvaro has been protecting and caring for her sister, who is four years her junior, since they were young. As a child, her sister often had high fevers and seizures that led to a loss of hearing Ms. Varvaro learned sign language so they could communicate. Surgery restored her hearing several years later. Ms. Varvaro has also helped her sister cope with paranoid schizophrenia and clinical depression, diagnoses she received after their mother died in 1999. “They’re only labels,” Ms. Varvaro said. “I tell my sister, ‘Other people need them. You don’t. ’” She added: “I’m a shy person until it comes to my sister, and then the bulldog comes out. I fight for the people I love. I will go for the jugular and ask God for forgiveness later. ” When her sister, who had been living in a supportive apartment program, had a nervous breakdown in 2003, after verbal abuse and neglect, she moved her to another such program. Ms. Varvaro said she had lodged a complaint with local officials against the previous program. It was later shut down. But in August 2009, her sister had another breakdown at the second residence. Ms. Varvaro then brought her home to live with her in her apartment on Staten Island. When they moved in together, Ms. Varvaro promised to keep her sister safe. After the storm, she felt she had failed her. She asked for her sister’s forgiveness. “I think all the struggles I’ve survived in life were in preparation for taking care of my sister,” Ms. Varvaro said. By attending to her sister’s needs, however, Ms. Varvaro suppressed her own anxiety. In 2014, a friend referred her to an art class and other services provided by the Jewish Community Center of Staten Island, a beneficiary agency of   of New York, one of eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Working in watercolors and pastels, she painted a small sailboat flitting in the choppy water of a dark storm. “I’m no Picasso,” she said. “But it got me out of this house. It got me out of myself. ” The art classes have been a welcome break from financial troubles that were compounded after the hurricane. The family received $10, 000 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency to cover losses  —   well under what the sisters needed. They were unable to return to their first apartment together and the garden they tended daily with colorful annuals and window boxes by the kitchen. Since 2009, Ms. Varvaro’s back injury and other health problems have kept her from working as an emergency medical technician, a job she had held for 13 years. Her sister has never been able to work because of her mental illness. Together they receive $1, 736 in Social Security income and disability benefits. They also receive $375 a month in food stamps and a $575 rent subsidy from the city. They now share a     apartment that is accessible only by a long, narrow staircase, which is difficult for the elder Ms. Varvaro to climb because of her arthritis and fibromyalgia. The Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, another   beneficiary, provided them with $850 in Neediest funds to cover one month’s rent in 2014. In September, they also received $1, 170 from the fund to replace the younger Ms. Varvaro’s broken bed and to buy a therapeutic mattress for her sister, which has greatly improved her sleep. The elder Ms. Varvaro hopes they can eventually move into a     apartment. “I’ve been to hell and back,” she said. “Now I just want to help my sister have peace of mind. I’m ready to live again. ”