Oskar Eustis bounded into the middle of the square yellow carpet at the center of the small theater, ready to deliver his welcoming remarks, and stood in the only place he could: next to a coffin. Mr. Eustis, the exuberant    artistic director of the Public Theater and arguably the most admired theater executive in the country, was in his element: It was late September, opening night of a production of “Hamlet” from the branch of the Public that takes dramas to prisons and homeless shelters. The play began. Mr. Eustis’s eyes welled up. There were tears when the ghost of the dead king cries out to his son, Hamlet tears when Hamlet laments that he has “lost all my mirth” tears through “To be or not to be,” the speech in which Hamlet considers ending his life. “Watch ‘Hamlet’ tonight with this in mind,” Mr. Eustis had urged over dinner just before the show, seated at his regular table at the Public’s restaurant, photos of his family arrayed on the shelves overhead. “Three years before he wrote ‘Hamlet,’ Shakespeare’s only son died. ” Mr. Eustis, whose theater oversees Shakespeare in the Park, had long known about the possible connection between the playwright’s grief and his play, but it had new and unwanted resonance. His    son, Jack, took his own life nearly two years ago. Now, Mr. Eustis, with his family, faces the kind of   for which there can be no preparation. How to hold on and move forward at the same time. What it means to be a public figure with a private grief. How he thinks about the work he does and the shows he sees. The tragedy coincided with a time of extraordinary success in Mr. Eustis’s professional life: The Public was the Off Broadway birthplace of two groundbreaking new musicals, “Fun Home” and the     hit “Hamilton. ” Those very shows are propelled by tragic losses. But his is a life of theater, and immersing himself in theatermaking is the only path he knows to take. “It is the way I move in the world,” he said. “It feels like the place for me to work it out. ” SIX WEEKS AFTER HIS SON DIED, Mr. Eustis returned to work. He invited the Public’s employees to meet him in the Library, the theater’s new restaurant space, and began to talk. “You guys all know what happened, and what I’m going to do now is tell you my story,” he recalled saying. “And for 45 minutes, I told them the story. I said: ‘Now this means that you know what I think. It’s not a taboo subject  —   we can talk about it when we need to  —   but you never have to talk about it, because now we have. ’” Mr. Eustis is burly and bearded, with a generous hug and an easy cry. Cheerleader and counselor, impresario and guru  —   he will push and prod in a rehearsal room for greater clarity, deeper character, more truth. And then, come opening night, he will climb atop a bar or a table and dole out praise in poetically turned phrases that are somehow both sincere and superlative. “He cares about theater as deeply as anyone I’ve ever met  —   this idea that you sit in the dark with a group of strangers and something galvanizing happens,” said Thomas Kail, the director of “Hamilton,” who this season will direct his third show at the Public. “That ritual of going to the theater is just part of his ethos and his soul, and you feel like you are a part of that when you sit in the theater with him. ” As deft with Shakespeare as it is with contemporary drama, the nonprofit Public is a magnet for star performers (Anne Hathaway and Daniel Radcliffe, to name two) and laureled writers (coming soon: Stephen Sondheim). Its Astor Place headquarters, renovated under Mr. Eustis’s watch, is alive and aglitter, night after night. Mr. Eustis’s sharp sense of what works onstage and his obvious affection for artists and artistry are why the playwrights affiliated with the Public  —   one of the nation’s most storied theaters  —   have embraced him so ardently since his arrival in 2005. Richard Nelson, whom Mr. Eustis has encouraged to pursue a stunningly intimate series of plays chronicling dinner table conversations at two family homes, describes Mr. Eustis as “a life force” and credits him with “an extraordinary sense of trust and collaboration with a playwright,   in my experience. ”   Parks, the Pulitzer   author of “” lauds Mr. Eustis for “a kind of generosity that is otherworldly, that is enormous, that is spiritual. ” The theater world is an emotional community pain is expressed and discussed and honored. But still, figuring out how to talk about his loss has been difficult for Mr. Eustis, who ultimately agreed to answer questions about his experience, and how it affects his thinking about theater and the challenges facing the Public, in a series of interviews over the last six months. An early test came at Jack’s school, Saint Ann’s in Brooklyn Heights, where Mr. Eustis had been teaching a class about the Public Theater itself. Two weeks after Jack died, he decided to return to the classroom. “I knew it was going to be one thing or the other  —   it was either within five minutes I was going to have to get out of there, or I would find out what I did find out, which is that I loved being there, and I still feel that way,” he said. “The kids  —   you could feel they wanted to be there for me, which was so moving. ” He has leaned heavily for support on his wife, Laurie, and daughter, Kyle. As he has turned to the theater, Laurie has taken up writing poetry, and Kyle, 25, has begun directing. “Laurie and Kyle and I are struggling with this together, and the main thing we have is our support for each other,” he said. The family is often at the theater together all three of them attended that “Hamlet” opening. “It’s extraordinary how they navigated their way,” said Jeanine Tesori, the “Fun Home” composer. “They really are there to bear witness at openings and closings, often with very painful material to sit through, and yet, here they are, part of the circle. ” AN MP3 ARRIVED by email, hours after Jack’s death. It came from   Miranda, a new arrival to the Public fold. It was a demo recording of “It’s Quiet Uptown,” the song from “Hamilton” describing Alexander Hamilton, and his wife, Eliza, as they grieve the death of their    son, Philip: “There is nothing you can say,” Mr. Miranda recalled thinking. “And yet, I had a song about this. So I wrote to him saying, ‘If this is useful, then lean on it, and, if not, delete this email. ’” Mr. Eustis and his wife found it useful. “Every line of ‘Quiet Uptown’ feels like it’s exactly correct to my experience,” Mr. Eustis said. “It was the only music we listened to for a long time, and we listened to it every day, and it became a key thing for the two of us. ” There is a part of “Hamilton” that Mr. Eustis still finds unbearable, in the opening number, when a rapid description of Alexander Hamilton’s childhood includes the lyric “Moved in with a cousin, the cousin committed suicide,” which is choreographed with a brief pantomime of the death. “From the moment it happened in rehearsal, I’ve turned away,” he said. “I’ve never looked at it. ” But Mr. Eustis and Mr. Miranda both recall something else, too: The grieving father’s reaction to a line of comic relief that, in the show’s libretto, is uttered by Thomas Jefferson immediately after “It’s Quiet Uptown”: “Can we get back to politics?” “For me, the beautiful thing about ‘Quiet Uptown’ is, it serves a ritualistic function  —   it takes us into the grief, and then it takes us out of it,” Mr. Eustis said. “And there’s nothing, there’s no other ritual that I know of, that can do that for me. ” Mr. Miranda still remembers hearing Mr. Eustis’s instinctive response. “I’ll treasure that laugh forever,” he said. “It was a big belly laugh of getting to stop crying. ” MR. EUSTIS NOW FACES BIG DECISIONS, about his career and his institution, a $41    operation with 170   staff members. He is wise enough to know that making those decisions while in the middle of a   tragedy is not a good idea. But still, they loom. He is midway through a contract with the Public that expires in 2018, so he must decide in the    future whether to ask the board to extend his tenure, or to do something else (he especially loves teaching, which he does regularly at the Bread Loaf School of English in Vermont and at New York University). He has enormous support. “I hope he sticks around forever,” said Arielle Tepper Madover, the chairwoman of the Public’s board. He also has ever more ambitious dreams and is excited about seeing them through. Presenting consistently excellent work and cultivating new voices, yes, but also expanding the Public’s audience. His biggest, craziest idea  —   more a longstanding hope than a plan  —   is to make much of the theater’s programming free, knowing that free shows attract audiences younger and more diverse than those that charge for tickets. “People who tell you that there’s not economic barriers to people participating in the theater are just not telling you the truth,” he said. “There are huge economic barriers. ” The notion of free tickets is not as wild as it sounds the Public, of course, already makes most tickets to its summertime Shakespeare in the Park series available free. And the Public is largely financed by philanthropy, not ticket sales. The Public has begun offering free tickets to the first preview of all of its shows, and it now has plans to expand the experimentation. “We’re going to take another big step next season,” Mr. Eustis said. “And I’m telling you, if we start being able to give away our tickets for free in an indoor space, and balance our budgets, and run financially successful seasons, it will be a big earthquake in American theater. ” He is also pushing to extend the reach of the Public’s programming, and its ethos, beyond Astor Place. He has become an evangelist for Public Works, the Labor Day weekend musicalizations of classic plays that combine a handful of professional actors with hundreds of amateur performers from across the five boroughs. Theaters in Dallas, Detroit and Seattle are adopting the program, often using productions created by the Public, but with their own casts, and Mr. Eustis, enamored of the democratic ideals implicit in the casting, and the diversity of the audiences that result, is eager to see it spread further. Joe’s Pub, the Public’s   nightspot, has begun producing a performance series in Houston and is about to do the same in Seattle. The Public has announced a partnership with the Donmar Warehouse, a highly regarded nonprofit in London, and is talking about what Mr. Eustis calls a possible “multilevel collaboration” with the National Theater in London, which is a pioneer in presenting stage productions on cinema screens. And the Public is taking to festivals in Hong Kong and Australia Mr. Nelson’s latest plays, about an upstate New York family called the Gabriels, dramatic works that Mr. Eustis believes can give global audiences insight into contemporary American life. Next: The theater, which has had considerable financial ups and downs over the years, must decide whether to initiate a major fund drive for new rehearsal facilities and more. “Hamilton” is a help  —   the theater gets 5 percent of the profits and 1 percent of the adjusted gross from the production  —   but not as much as “A Chorus Line” was years ago, and Mr. Eustis is determined that the Public not become dependent on a single show. “What I want to do,” he said, “is make sure that this theater is set up so that not just its existence, but its mission, is permanent. ”  IMPERMANENCE, AS IT HAPPENS, turns out to be an inescapable theme in the work Mr. Eustis oversees. It’s not just in “Hamilton,” but also in “Fun Home,” which closes with the suicide of Alison Bechdel’s father, and Mr. Nelson’s play this fall, “What Did You Expect,” which opens with a story about men debating whether to tell a family that its little girl has drowned. Mr. Eustis is not without a sense of humor about his theatrical appetites. Earlier this year  —   arriving at the   party for “Head of Passes,” a play that ends with a scorching cri de coeur from a mother railing against God after the tragic death of her children  —   Mr. Eustis blurted out, “Get used to seeing plays like this. ” He finds himself marveling at the frequency of heartbreaking loss in the plays he has chosen to present. “Is it just suddenly I’m noticing that all of these plays that I’m trying to do have this quality,” he said, “or have they been there and I’ve just not seen it?” At the same time, Mr. Eustis, who attends theater five or six nights a week, finds himself newly angered by shows that he believes present an overly rosy picture of life  —   particularly on Broadway, where the triumph over tragedy is a staple. He is infuriated, he says, by “narratives that imply that children are always reunited with their parents, that dead people aren’t really dead. ” “What I see over and over is narratives that are absolutely lying to the audience about how life works out, and they are lying to the audience for the sole purpose of making the audience feel good,” he said. “That’s not what art is for. ” “The mission that I feel like I have is to figure out how you can tell the truth about how tragic and unfair life actually is without destroying hope,” he added. As the   anniversary of his son’s death approaches, and a new season at the Public gets underway, Mr. Eustis is seeking hope himself. He is thrilled with the success of “Twelfth Night,” this year’s Public Works endeavor pleased with the audience appetite for Mr. Nelson’s Gabriels plays and looking forward to a revival of “Plenty,” which opens Oct. 20. One sign of change: This past spring, when “Dear Evan Hansen,” a   musical imagining the aftermath of a high school student’s suicide, was playing Off Broadway at Second Stage, the show’s director, Michael Greif, persuaded the Eustises not to come, thinking elements of the show would just be too painful. Now the show is heading to Broadway, and, at the moment, the Eustises are planning to be there opening night. Mr. Eustis said that he has also recently noticed a change in his own behavior: He has found himself straightening up and organizing his office and home. “It feels like the start of a new phase, where we’re actually thinking about the future,” he said. “Not happy. But a step. Almost two years in. ” And then, trying to sum up how he is doing, he turned, as he always does, to theater for words. He quoted “Angels in America,” the Pulitzer   epic by one of his closest friends, Tony Kushner, in which Prior Walter, a character with AIDS, converses with an angel, declaring, toward the play’s end, “I want more life. ” “I didn’t mean to be quite so grandiose, but that’s actually kind of what it’s feeling like,” Mr. Eustis said. “It’s feeling like I want to be alive. ”