The most prominent sculptures at Tufts University, my alma mater just outside Boston, show Jumbo, the storied circus elephant permanently lodged in the college’s mythology. But a fascinating artistic discovery is shedding new light on a lesser known, but perhaps more consequential, piece of the college’s history. MEDFORD, Mass.  —   The marble sculpture was filthy, with no nose and a doodle on its eyeballs. It had been hidden away for decades. Adding insult to injury, no one here at Tufts University seemed to have any idea who the person depicted was. “Unknown Artist (Brown? )” read the inventory after the piece was moved to   storage in 1998. “Bust of a bearded man. ” And there it stayed, until last year, when an intern came across a letter written in 1950 referring to a “marble bust of John Brown,” the abolitionist whose 1859 raid on Harpers Ferry is viewed as a precursor to the Civil War, that had lost its nose “in an accident. ” Laura McDonald, the registrar of art collections, read the letter and felt a jolt of recognition. “I remember thinking to myself, ‘You know, we have a bust that has no nose,’” she said. “I wonder   …     . ” So began the rediscovery of a remarkable piece of antebellum history far from the   line: a tale of a lost piece of art, rife with missed connections, that ended with Mr. Brown getting a new nose. The story begins in 1859, when Mr. Brown was waiting to be hanged in Virginia after his failed attempt to start a slave rebellion by capturing the arsenal at Harpers Ferry. He had become a deeply polarizing figure, respected in the North and reviled in the South as he awaited his execution. Mr. Brown had gotten some financial help from George and Mary Stearns, prominent abolitionists whose estate here in Medford was a stop on the Underground Railroad. They paid a sculptor, Edward Brackett, $120 in gold coins to travel from Boston to Virginia, where he gathered measurements of Mr. Brown’s face for a marble bust. The bust was unveiled on the day the Emancipation Proclamation took effect in 1863, at a party attended by luminaries like Ralph Waldo Emerson and Louisa May Alcott, and it was reproduced in plaster and in photographs. Despite its auspicious beginnings, the bust faded into obscurity. Ownership of it passed to Tufts in 1902, and it was displayed in a library until it went into storage at some point. The sculpture actually says “John Brown” on the back  —   but it was wrapped up alongside a sculpture of Mr. Stearns and put on a storage pallet, and no one, it seems, stood the   piece of marble upright to read the inscription. A plaster copy of the bust can be found at the Athenaeum, a private library in Boston, but no one connected it to the sculpture at Tufts. When the bust was pulled out of storage, though, the plaster copy became quite useful. A   scan was made of the nose on the copy, and then of the broken part of the marble sculpture’s face, allowing conservators to create a plaster replica of what was missing. The replacement nose was then attached, with medical tape used to hold it tightly in place while the adhesive dried. A conservator, Rika Smith McNally, used a tiny paintbrush and sparkly flecks to make it look like marble. Today, the bust, nose and all, can be seen at the Tufts University Art Gallery for the first time since it went into storage decades ago. The final resting place of the original nose and how it was broken, however, remain a mystery.