Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • President Trump’s immigration order barring refugees and citizens of seven countries from entering the United States unleashed chaos on the U. S. immigration system, prompting continuing protests and legal action, much of it by lawyers working   at airport arrival halls. A White House official appeared to reverse part of the order, saying that green card holders from the barred countries  —   Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen  —   would be allowed to enter “going forward. ” Here’s what we know and don’t know about the executive order. And here’s our full coverage of the Trump administration. _____ • Several European leaders rejected the refugee ban in blunt terms, and an array of Christian leaders denounced provisions that would favor Christian immigrants as discriminatory, misguided and inhumane. Even some top Republicans objected. Mr. Trump appeared to have more pleasant exchanges with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Australia’s prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, who hoped for reassurance that the U. S. would honor the refugee resettlement deal struck with the Obama administration. _____ • Myanmar was shaken by a rare and brazen assassination. The country’s most prominent Muslim lawyer, U Ko Ni, was shot dead at the airport in Yangon, after returning with a government delegation from a trip to Indonesia. He appeared to have been shot while in his family car, while holding his grandchild. A suspect was arrested, but no motive was immediately evident. _____ • As Japan moves to accommodate Emperor Akihito’s wish to give up the throne, many Japanese believe it is also time to clear the way for a woman to reign. It has been nearly 250 years since Japan had an empress. “Like Queen Elizabeth in England, if Princess Aiko becomes the emperor, things may change in society,” a woman in Kanagawa Prefecture said. _____ • And Roger Federer, 35, became the oldest man to win a Grand Slam singles title in 45 years by defeating his longtime rival, Rafael Nadal, in an epic   final of the Australian Open. It was Federer’s record 18th tournament championship and his first since 2012. The victory came a day after Serena Williams, 35, defeated her sister Venus, 36, for her   23rd Grand Slam singles title, becoming the oldest female Australian Open winner in the current era. • Hong Kong’s monetary office says the city needs as many as 400 million more bank notes in circulation to handle Lunar New Year transactions and lai see distribution, which is valued at $1 billion. • Toshiba’s   from its   investment in a U. S. construction firm focused on nuclear power projects could rise to $4 billion to $7 billion, enough to put the    company’s future at risk. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Three people were killed when a boat carrying 31 people capsized in Sabah, Malaysia.   people, mostly Chinese tourists, have been rescued. [Bernama] • The Philippine government’s free distribution of birth control has pitted President Rodrigo Duterte against the Catholic Church, and not for the first time. [The New York Times] • An American commando was killed in a raid on Qaeda militants in Yemen, the first counterterrorism operation approved by President Trump. [The New York Times] •  North Korea appears to have resumed operation of a reactor used to produce plutonium for its nuclear weapons program, the think tank 38 North said. [Reuters] • The Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, weighed in on a contentious issue, saying the U. S. Embassy “needs to be” in Jerusalem. “All embassies should come here,” he said. [The New York Times] • Thousands of Mongolians protested for the second time this winter to demand that the government address choking air pollution in the capital, Ulan Bator. [Associated Press] • Taliban militants are tapping new revenues sources beyond the opium trade, including collecting utility bills, as they take over increasingly large areas of Afghanistan. [The New York Times] • If you made a New Year’s resolution this year, there’s an 80 percent chance you’ve already given it up or you’re just about to. We want to help you stick with it  —   or revamp it into something you really want to achieve  —   so this month Smarter Living will offer tips, advice and motivation to help you. Every Monday in this space we’ll pose a new idea, offer advice for staying strong and ask you a question. Then every Thursday we’ll highlight a few of our favorite emails and offer a helping hand. To join in, email us at smarterliving@nytimes. com with the subject line “My resolution” and send us answers to the following three bullets. And, because this goes both ways, I’ll start us off: • Your name: I’m Tim Herrera, your Smarter Living Editor. • Your resolution and why you chose it (either the one you started with, or the one you really want to achieve): My resolution is to be better with money so I can save more and *gasp* maybe actually retire someday. • Two specific   within your resolution: In February, I’ll order delivery for dinner one fewer night per week, and I’ll stop buying one of my daily afternoon coffees (which I buy solely out of habit, but which cost me around $500 over the course of a year). • An audacious plan to respond to climate change by building a city of floating islands in the South Pacific is moving forward, with the government of French Polynesia agreeing to consider hosting the islands in a tropical lagoon. •  A song spreading fast online in China offers a bit of relief for those who dashed home for the new year only to face relentless personal questions from their families. • And we review “Behemoth,” a documentary from Zhao Liang that finds horror and surrealism in Inner Mongolia, where migrant iron and coal workers are shown as cogs in China’s economic progress. Bruce Lee, the first superstar of   films, appeared to Western audiences in only five movies and a handful of TV roles before his early death in 1973. But his influence has never really stopped growing, and his legacy can be found in some remarkable places. Take, for example, the video that Tom Brady, the N. F. L. quarterback, recently posted online to motivate his team for the playoffs. It features Lee’s mantra “Be water, my friend. ” Or the impact he had on 1970s reggae music, appearing on album covers, like Lee Perry’s “Kung Fu Meets the Dragon,” and inspiring countless songs and artists, such as Dillinger. David Henry Hwang, the   playwright, devoted an entire play to Lee’s life, and called him the first “  male hero. ” This week, the Museum of Modern Art in New York is screening all five of Lee’s films in a series called “Eternal Bruce Lee. ” He’s been honored in museums from Hong Kong to California, not to mention the Bruce Lee Action Museum in Seattle. Despite all the fanfare, Lee still has an aura of mystery. Did you know he was the 1958   champion of Hong Kong? _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.