A Russian spacecraft carrying 2. 6 tons of food, fuel and supplies  —   but no astronauts  —   to the International Space Station failed to reach orbit on Thursday and largely burned up in the atmosphere as it fell back down. Roscosmos, the Russian space agency, reported that a Soyuz rocket carrying the Progress 65 cargo ship successfully lifted off from Kazakhstan. The first six minutes and 22 seconds of the flight proceeded normally. But shortly after the upper stage separated from the core booster, flight telemetry stopped, leaving ground controllers confused about what had happened. Roscosmos later confirmed that the Progress 65 and its cargo had been destroyed, with the failure occurring about 120 miles over Tuva, a Russian republic in southern Siberia. The six astronauts at the space station  —   three Russian, two American and one French  —   are safe and have adequate supplies, Roscosmos and NASA said. The cargo included 1, 400 pounds of propellant, 112 pounds of oxygen, 925 pounds of water, and 2, 750 pounds of spare parts, supplies and scientific experiment hardware. NASA said the Progress was not carrying any supplies crucial for the United States side of the space station. A Japanese cargo ship is scheduled to launch and head to the space station on Dec. 9. Space station managers will have to do some juggling of plans and adjust coming cargo flights. This is the fourth loss of a spacecraft carrying cargo to the space station in the past 25 months. In October 2014, an Antares rocket built by Orbital ATK exploded six seconds after it lifted off in Virginia. Six months later, a Russian Progress cargo ship spun out of control. Then, a Falcon 9 rocket built by SpaceX disintegrated during flight. Before that, the space station program had experienced the loss of only one cargo ship  —   another Progress, in August 2011  —   in nearly 16 years. This fall, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia called for accelerated construction at a new launch site to replace the current Cosmodrome, which Russia leases from Kazakhstan. The financially ailing Russian space program will temporarily reduce the number of crew members to two from three at the space station next year. In recent months, the flow of supplies to the space station appeared to be getting back on track. An Antares rocket with different engines successfully reached the space station in October. Several Progress ships successfully ferried cargo to the space station before Thursday’s failure. SpaceX’s Falcon 9 also resumed flights but then was grounded again after one of the Falcon 9 rockets exploded on the launchpad during fueling for an engine test. SpaceX is now aiming to resume the launching of commercial satellites this month, and its next cargo flight is planned for January 2017. NASA officials now seem prescient in asking Orbital ATK to launch its next cargo mission with an Atlas 5 rocket, built by United Launch Alliance, rather than an Antares rocket. Although the redesigned Antares worked well, the Atlas 5 has a long, successful track record and it can lift a heavier payload, allowing NASA to pack in more supplies. That mission is to take off in the spring.