Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • Tensions between China and Donald J. Trump are escalating even before the   takes office. A   editorial in the overseas edition of People’s Daily, the official organ of the Communist Party of China, denounced Mr. Trump for speaking with Taiwan’s president, while Mr. Trump posted messages on Twitter that stepped up pressure on Beijing. The Taiwanese appear to be cautiously embracing his attention. _____ • Mr. Trump is meeting with a broadened range of candidates for secretary of state, including a former ambassador to China, Jon Huntsman. Top NATO officials begin two days of meetings today in Brussels, their last before Mr. Trump, who has expressed ambivalence about the organization, takes office. Mr. Trump added a former rival to his Cabinet, naming the retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, above, to oversee efforts to lift American cities. Here’s the latest on the transition, including former Vice President Al Gore’s meeting with Mr. Trump and an effort by hundreds of scientists to persuade Mr. Trump that   climate change is real. _____ • “We must never repeat the horror of war. ” Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s announcement that he will visit Pearl Harbor, the Hawaiian naval base Japan attacked in World War II, effectively reciprocates President Obama’s May trip to the Japanese city of Hiroshima, where the U. S. dropped a nuclear bomb to end the war.  Ashton Carter, the U. S. defense secretary, is in Japan to meet with Defense Minister Tomomi Inada and Mr. Abe. _____ • Rebels who have lost much of their grip in the Syrian city of Aleppo must withdraw completely or be killed as “terrorists,” Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said. He also said that the American secretary of state, John Kerry, had already submitted a proposal for the routes and timing of the fighters’ departure, and that Russia and the United States would opens talks in Geneva almost immediately. _____ •   movements across Europe are among the winners after a constitutional referendum in Italy failed and the country’s prime minister, Matteo Renzi, resigned. Britain’s Supreme Court began what is expected to be four days of hearings on the government’s efforts to retain a free hand in organizing the exit from the European Union. The verdict is expected later in January. • Europe’s political disruptions have created new potential for volatility, but in the short term markets are up. Oil rose to its highest level since July 2015, and the Dow Jones industrial average reached a record high. • Masayoshi Son, the    Japanese investor who bought Sprint in 2013, has made two ambitious moves in a bid to make his  SoftBank Group the future’s most important technology business. • Shares in Duet Group rose on news of an offer of about $5. 4 billion from Li   the Hong Kong billionaire whose proposed deals in Australia have raised concerns about foreign investors. • Uber is getting serious about artificial intelligence, acquiring Geometric Intelligence, an A. I. company, and launching an   lab for A. I. research. The   company wants a hand in how the computers behind   vehicles think and make decisions on the road. • Japan will release October wage data, seen as crucial in judging the progress of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic programs. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Thousands mourned in India after J Jayalalitha, the influential chief minister of southern Tamil Nadu state, died after suffering a heart attack on Sunday night. [BBC] • Pakistan honored Abdus Salam, a Nobel laureate who belonged to the persecuted Ahmadi minority, by naming a top physics department after him two decades after his death. [The New York Times] • Rohingya Muslims face chronic discrimination in access to medical care in Myanmar, a study shows. [The New York Times] • John Key, who abruptly resigned as New Zealand prime minister, did not have the support of some prominent citizens. [Stuff. co. nz] • The death toll in the “Ghost Ship” warehouse fire in Oakland, Calif. rose to 36 and could climb still higher. [The New York Times] • In a test of Bhutan’s press freedom, a journalist has been accused of libel for sharing a Facebook post that hints at corruption within the country’s elite. [The New York Times] • North Koreans shopping in Dandong, a Chinese border city, seem to favor tiny memory cards and teddy bears. [Reuters] • Japan’s top golfer, Hideki Matsuyama, 24, has put together a streak that calls to mind Tiger Woods at the same age: three consecutive tournament titles, and four in his past five starts. • Bob Dylan sent the Nobel Prize committee a speech to be read on his behalf when he is awarded the literature prize in Stockholm on Saturday. Patti Smith, the musician and writer, will perform his “A Hard Rain’s   Fall,” as a tribute. • New studies show that men and women in their 60s and 70s who trained with weights developed muscles on a par with an average   . • Government officials in Japan say they are alarmed by a stark disregard for environmental issues among young people. • A mystery man who stole a bucket filled with 86 pounds of scrap gold (worth $1. 6 million) from an armored truck in Midtown Manhattan two months ago has still not been identified, despite security video of him waddling across town. Children aren’t the only fans of St. Nicholas, that is, Santa Claus. He’s a hit with pawnbrokers, too. His feast day is celebrated today across Europe with reminders of his legend of leaving gold coins in shoes for boys and girls. He’s the pawnbrokers’ patron saint  . The business of offering quick cash for personal items has been criticized for exploiting the poor. But some say the spheres that hang outside pawn shops are meant to symbolize St. Nick’s generosity, evoking the bags of gold he is said to have used to save three sisters from being sold into slavery. Another theory is that the spheres originated with the Medicis, the powerful Italian bankers who sponsored artists during the Renaissance. Golden circles appear on their family crest. That may explain how New York City’s power brokers came to admire St. Nick. “The religion the world wants today,” a guest at a banquet devoted to the saint said in 1900, “is a religion like that of St. Nicholas, that lays the hands of brotherly love upon the crying needs of our helpless brethren. ” Kenneth R. Rosen contributed reporting. _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.