Passionate supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders awoke enraged on Tuesday after learning that his slim hopes for winning the Democratic presidential nomination had been effectively dashed as a batch of superdelegates revealed their support for Hillary Clinton. After months of dancing around the phrase, news organizations on Monday night finally bestowed a   label on Mrs. Clinton: presumptive nominee. The Sanders campaign immediately assailed the media for rushing the process and undermining the will of voters who were set to head to the polls in six states on Tuesday. In a     email, Jeff Weaver, Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager, urged voters to defy the pundits and deliver a stunning series of victories for the Vermont senator. “We should let the voters decide who they want the Democratic nominee to be rather than having the media decide for them,” Mr. Weaver wrote. “I am asking you to continue to stand with Bernie in pushing for the political revolution. ” On social media, supporters of Mr. Sanders fumed at a system that they have increasingly felt is rigged against their candidate. Irate messages poured onto the “Sanders for President” message board on Reddit, an online discussion forum, with users promising to vote for Mr. Sanders regardless of what the superdelegates said. Some said they would vote for Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, and others suggested that Mr. Sanders join the Green Party and keep running against Mrs. Clinton. But the momentum that now favors Mrs. Clinton may be too much. The term “presumptive nominee” has no formal definition in politics. Yet traditionally when it is used to describe a candidate, a wave of endorsements carries that person to the nomination. Once The Associated Press, which prodded the superdelegates to come forward, declared Mrs. Clinton the presumptive Democratic nominee, the phrase soon reverberated across news outlets around the world. “There’s a bandwagon effect,” Douglas G. Brinkley, a presidential historian and professor at Rice University, said of being billed as a presumptive nominee. “Everybody starts coalescing around that candidate. ” The A. P. said it uses the term when it becomes clear a candidate for president will be formally nominated at a party’s convention. Television networks, newspapers and online media quickly followed The A. P.’s lead once it was determined that Mrs. Clinton had reached the 2, 383 delegates needed to clinch the nomination. Mr. Sanders and his campaign were clearly fearful that Mrs. Clinton would be called the presumptive nominee while primary voting was still going on, particularly with Tuesday’s contest in California, where polls have shown the two candidates to be close. But both candidates could be now exposed by The A. P.’s early call, which could dampen turnout among voters who think the race is over. Mrs. Clinton noted the importance of crossing the delegate threshold on Monday night, but avoided marking the moment as conclusive. If her voters stay home on Tuesday, a series of defeats would be an embarrassment and could buttress Mr. Sanders’s argument for why he should continue campaigning until the Democratic convention in July. Although the media was quick to give the designation to Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic Party did not. The Democratic National Committee has no official definition for the term “presumptive nominee. ” Mark Paustenbach, a spokesman for the committee, would not say if or when the D. N. C. would begin using “presumptive” to describe Mrs. Clinton. On the Republican side, Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, declared Donald J. Trump the presumptive nominee after he won the Indiana primary last month. For the time being, Mr. Sanders is still making arguments for why superdelegates should ditch his opponent and make him the nominee. Polls that show him performing better against Mr. Trump than Mrs. Clinton, and his energized   following, form the crux of his appeal. Mrs. Clinton, who eight years ago dropped her presidential bid and supported Barack Obama, can likely relate to the plight of Mr. Sanders despite her desire to focus on the general election. In 2008, Mr. Obama captured a majority of pledged delegates in May, but declined to declare victory. Mrs. Clinton insisted that the contest was not finished and argued that neither candidate would have enough delegates for the nomination. “This is nowhere near over,” Mrs. Clinton said at the time. The race went on for only two more weeks.