(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Divisions deepened  over President Trump’s order barring entry to refugees and citizens from seven   countries. Some of Mr. Trump’s supporters applauded the order, but other citizens organized on social networks, business leaders registered objections, and State Department diplomats circulated a   dissent cable. The White House press secretary said government workers should “get with the program” or go. Donations poured into the A. C. L. U. and other rights groups, lawsuits proliferated and acting Attorney General Sally Yates, a holdover from the Obama administration, was fired after she ordered the Justice Department not to defend the order in court. President Obama   saying through a spokesman that the order was discriminatory and that he was “heartened by the level of engagement taking place in communities around the country. ” You can see more of our coverage here  —   including Iran’s missile launch, a test of Mr. Trump. Above, Syrian families at a U. N. office in Beirut, Lebanon. _____ 2. We took a look at why the order sparked such chaos. It received little or no legal review. The secretary of homeland security, above, was not asked for guidance, and Customs and Border Protection officers were unaware of it. And we collected the stories of people covered by the ban, which delayed families from reuniting and students returning to universities in the U. S. The U. N. estimates 20, 000 refugees wouldn’t be able to be resettled during the   suspension. Here’s a look at the rigorous vetting process refugees already face the debate over whether the ban is legal and our updated explainer about the executive order. _____ 3. President Trump appeared to try to shift the public’s focus to another hot topic, by tweeting that he would announce his pick for the Supreme Court on Tuesday at 8 p. m. Our legal reporter says abortion rights and affirmative action appear secure for now, but unions and environmentalists have cause for concern. And this may not be Mr. Trump’s only appointment during his term. _____ 4. Messages of solidarity poured into Canada from around the world after a shooting at a Quebec mosque that left six dead. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau assailed what he called “this terrorist attack on Muslims in a center of worship and refuge,” and issued a statement saying: “It is   to see such senseless violence. Diversity is our strength, and religious tolerance is a value that we, as Canadians, hold dear. ” Local media reported that the    suspect had a history of provocative views and antisocial behavior. _____ 5. The   “nerd prom” that is normally the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner has some competition. The comedian Samantha Bee promises to “properly roast the president” at “Not the White House Correspondents’ Dinner” the same night, April 29. The lineup has not been finalized but she says there are “binders full” of possibilities. _____ 6. The Ringling Bros. and Barnum  Bailey Circus is shutting down, after dwindling attendance and criticism from animal rights’ groups. Some extreme fans are extremely upset. They include a Queens man who has created a scale model of the circus at Madison Square Garden, above. The president of the Circus Fans Association of America got existential, saying, “To me, the circus has always been the elixir of youth. When I visit the circus, I’m 5 years old again and I have no life span. That immortality has been destroyed. ” _____ 7. The personal stenographer of the Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels died in Munich at 106. Brunhilde Pomsel was one of the last surviving members of the group that hid in a Berlin bunker with Hitler in his final days. “We tried to make sure we didn’t run out of alcohol,” she said. “That was urgently needed in order to retain the numbness. ” _____ 8. The ground cracks underfoot, and   pools of acidic water bubble between odd formations of rocks and minerals. Sulfur and chlorine create neon patches. In fact, the Danakil Depression in Ethiopia, an oppressively hot and dry volcanic region, might as well be Mars. That’s precisely why scientists visited, hoping to learn about the possibility of life on other planets. _____ 9. When the Falcons and the Patriots  meet in the Super Bowl this Sunday, the average cost of a   ad will be in the vicinity of $5 million. One novelty: Snickers aims to do the game’s first live commercial, starring Adam Driver (above in cardboard form) from the HBO series “Girls. ” _____ 10. A new documentary, “Becoming Warren Buffett,” looks at the personal relationships of America’s most famous investor, the    tycoon said to be worth $74 billion. “People watching it expecting to learn how to buy cheap stocks will be disappointed,” Mr. Buffett said with a chuckle during a telephone interview. (10 p. m. Eastern, HBO and streaming) _____ 11. Finally, a note about apologies. Most times when we say, “I’m sorry,” it’s for something trivial. But when it matters, watch your wording. Psychologists and other experts say the best apologies are short and don’t include rationalizations or requests for forgiveness. And “I’m sorry you feel that way” really means “I’m not really sorry at all. ” Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s Friday night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.