Hillary Clinton will be “real transparent” with Americans after learning lessons from the controversy over her use of a private email server, her running mate, Tim Kaine, said on Sunday, expressing optimism that she could improve her trust deficit with voters over the next month. Appearing on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Mr. Kaine also said Mrs. Clinton and President Obama would together decide how to proceed with Mr. Obama’s nomination of Judge Merrick B. Garland to the Supreme Court, if she won the presidency in November. Mr. Kaine’s primary objective on NBC was to help Mrs. Clinton move on from her latest email imbroglio: her inaccurate statement last week that the F. B. I. director, James B. Comey, had called her answers about her private email server “truthful. ” Mr. Comey told Congress last month that he could not say if Mrs. Clinton had lied to Americans about her email practices, also saying the F. B. I. had “no basis to conclude she lied to the F. B. I. ” While Mrs. Clinton said on Friday that she “may have  ” by suggesting that Mr. Comey had unconditionally vouched for her, Mr. Kaine focused on Mrs. Clinton’s admission that her use of the private server had been a “mistake”  —   a word he repeated four times  —   and said she had apologized for the matter. “I know that this is something that she’s learned from, and we’re going to be real transparent, absolutely,” Mr. Kaine said. Mrs. Clinton made her first apologies roughly a year ago and has promised to be more open, yet she was criticized for going more than 200 days without holding a formal news conference until Friday, when she took questions from reporters in Washington. Mr. Kaine suggested that more voters might trust Mrs. Clinton “even a month from now,” reflecting an ABC   Post poll on Sunday in which Mrs. Clinton held an edge in trustworthiness over Donald J. Trump, the Republican nominee. Asked which candidate was more honest and trustworthy, 49 percent of respondents chose Mrs. Clinton and 40 percent chose Mr. Trump, while the margin was narrower  —   46 percent to 43 percent  —   among registered voters. Both results were Mrs. Clinton’s best against Mr. Trump since the poll started asking the question in May, according to a news release accompanying the poll. Mrs. Clinton holds a lead of eight percentage points among registered voters over all, according to the poll, and has improved markedly with   white women  —   a group that Democrats have struggled to win for decades. But she continued to fare poorly among white men without college degrees. Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, on Sunday played down the troubles that Mr. Trump has caused for himself recently with comments at his rallies and interviews, including his attacks on a Gold Star family and his surprising decision to withhold endorsements from Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Senator John McCain for several days last week. Mr. Manafort said on Fox’s “Sunday Morning Futures” that the general election was just starting and that Mr. Trump would focus on attacking Mrs. Clinton starting on Monday with an economic speech in Detroit. “The campaign is a   campaign  —   we’re at the beginning,” Mr. Manafort said. “Starting Monday, we’re going to be announcing our economic plan. When we do that, we’re comfortable that we can get the agenda and the narrative of the campaign back on where it belongs, which is comparing the tepid economy under Obama and Clinton versus the kind of growth economy that Mr. Trump wants to build. ” Perhaps Mr. Kaine’s most surprising comments were about the fate of Judge Garland. He and Mrs. Clinton strongly support Judge Garland’s nomination to the Supreme Court, but the judge’s future remains unclear in the   Senate. If the Senate does not act on Judge Garland, and Mrs. Clinton becomes president in January, she would have to decide whether to stick with the choice of Mr. Obama, her close ally, or to pick someone else for the vacancy. Mr. Kaine, who represents Virginia in the Senate, said the fate of Judge Garland “will be for the president and the   to decide,” adding that it was up to Republicans in control of the Senate to bring the nomination to a vote. Asked if it was a 100 percent certainty that Mrs. Clinton would stick with Judge Garland’s nomination if she were elected, Mr. Kaine sidestepped the question and said that the onus was on Republicans to hold a vote and that he would vote in favor of the nomination. On Syria, Mr. Kaine said he believed the Obama administration had sent “a mixed message” about whether President Bashar   had to be deposed after crossing Mr. Obama’s   red line forbidding Syria to use chemical weapons. Still, Mr. Kaine said he supported the administration’s decision not to focus on ousting or replacing Mr. Assad and instead to concentrate on battling the Islamic State in Syria and elsewhere. On CNN’s “State of the Union,” Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, who challenged Mr. Trump for the Republican nomination and has refused to endorse him, ruled out voting for Mrs. Clinton in November, as some Republicans have said they would do. But asked if he would vote for Mr. Trump, Mr. Kasich said, “I wish that I could be fully enthusiastic  —   I can’t be  —   so I don’t know what’s going to happen in the end. ” He also said he did not know if Mr. Trump could win Ohio in November  —   a key state in his electoral strategy  —   if Mr. Trump continued to make controversial comments. “I still think it’s difficult if you are dividing to be able to win in Ohio,” he said. “I think it’s really, really difficult. ” Mr. Kasich also confirmed a recent report in The New York Times Magazine that one of his aides had received a phone call from the Trump campaign to offer the   slot with a promise that Mr. Kasich could have unusual authority over domestic and foreign policy in a Trump administration. Mr. Kasich, in his remarks to CNN, did not go into detail and added that he had personally never gotten a call. He added: “I was never interested in being anyone’s vice president. Never considered it. Why would I want to be? I would be the worst vice president. I have too many opinions. ” The Trump campaign has disputed details about the call, and Mr. Trump has said he never offered the   position to Mr. Kasich.