BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   Omran Daqneesh, a small Syrian boy from the embattled   section of Aleppo, somehow snapped to attention millions of people around the world, who watched and shared the arresting video of him as he wiped dried blood and thick soot from his face. The widespread interest in    Omran surprised the doctors who treated him, the photographer who shot the video and many Syrians who wondered whether the world had only just discovered how children have suffered every day in a war that has raged for more than five years. On Saturday, Omran’s    brother, Ali, died of wounds he suffered during the same attack, medical workers said. Ali’s death, which did not draw the same instant social media outpouring as Omran’s suffering, only underscored how many Syrian children are dying under the radar of the wider world. Omran was injured on Wednesday by either a Syrian or a Russian airstrike  —   Russia has denied involvement  —   that destroyed the building where his family lived in eastern Aleppo. On Thursday, a   website published a photograph of a young girl that it said was hurt  —   around the same time as Omran  —   by rebel mortar attacks on the   western side of the city. The rebels have no air power, and the devastation in Aleppo has been greater on the   side. One monitoring group, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said that 100 children had died on the city’s eastern side this month alone, and 49 on the western side. For each family, the loss is immeasurable. And there are children constantly caught up in battles in other places, on all sides, across   Syria. Omran’s picture has resonated for reasons obvious and unknowable. Here are images of seven of the many other children treated in the past week at hospitals in the same region. They are taken from among several that were posted by doctors and other residents of Aleppo on a WhatsApp group for journalists. Doctors did not know who this child was when he arrived at the same hospital that treated Omran. On Wednesday, Ahmad had been separated from his family  —   as happens to many children in the chaotic aftermath of an attack  —   in the Mashhad neighborhood of Aleppo. He underwent surgery for serious injuries to his head, groin and right arm and leg. Later identified, Ahmad was kept in the intensive care unit of the hospital along with his father. Late on Friday, he died from his injuries. The Hanoun sisters were wounded on Wednesday in the same airstrike that injured Omran. They were among 12 children under 15 who were treated at the same hospital in Aleppo. Both of the girls had suffered shrapnel wounds, but were treated and then released on Thursday morning. Doctors shared their picture with the WhatsApp group around the same time they shared the photograph of Omran. Aisel suffered wounds to her head and to one of her legs on Tuesday, and was treated at Al Quds hospital. The severity of her injuries could not be confirmed because doctors were busy treating new cases. But activists have nicknamed her “Syria’s Cinderella” because of a picture that one took of her shoes  —   Mary Janes, worn with white socks. The Hayouk siblings suffered cuts and bruises when an aircraft opened fire on Wednesday over the Sakhour neighborhood, and they were treated around the same time and at the same hospital as Omran. The children’s wounds were relatively minor, but an adult relative suffered a critical neck wound. Efforts to identify this boy, below, were unsuccessful. He was treated on Tuesday night at the Omar Hospital and released, said Baraa   a citizen journalist who photographed him. None of the medical workers who could be reached remembered the boy, which is not unusual in the overwhelmed hospitals. At 3 a. m. Saturday, a barrel bomb landed on a house in the Jalloum quarter of Aleppo’s old city, destroying the house and killing seven members of one family  —   including all four children  —   said Abdelkafi   a friend of the father’s. The children were Aisha, 12 Mohammad, 11 Obaida, 7 and Afraa, 6. There is no picture of their injuries to show because they were pulled dead from the rubble. Their father, Ali Abu Joud, recorded this video of three of his children’s bodies wrapped in shrouds. His voice can be heard breaking as he tells them goodbye, calling them “habibati”  —   my darlings  —   “birds of heaven, gone to the one who is better, gone to God. ”