Just before a Sunday morning service in the early 1990s, two women walked into one of Manhattan’s most venerable sanctuaries, Marble Collegiate Church, on Fifth Avenue. The usher who seated them, sizing them up as   worshipers, asked what had brought them to Marble, as the church is known. “They said, ‘We understand this is where Marla Maples met Donald Trump,’” recalled the choir director and organist at the time, Kevin Walters, “‘so we thought we’d come and see if we could hook up with a billionaire, too. ’” For all that has been written about Mr. Trump’s   careers  —   as a real estate developer, a casino owner and a   personality  —   relatively little attention has been focused on the role religion played in shaping his personality. Overlooked amid tabloid accounts of his romances or   articles about his ups and downs are the periods in his life when he was going to church, first as a regular at a Presbyterian church in Queens, where he grew up, and later, as a less frequent worshiper at Marble, one of America’s oldest and most famous churches. Mr. Trump, now the Republican nominee for president, had an intriguing relationship with Marble. He attended its Sunday services for almost 50 years, but says he does not know if he ever formally joined the church. He describes himself as a Presbyterian, but Marble is not a Presbyterian church  —   it is part of the Reformed Church in America, a separate denomination that traces its beginnings to 1628 and the first ordained minister in New Amsterdam, as New York was then known. Mr. Trump married his first wife, Ivana, at Marble, in a ceremony performed by one of America’s most famous ministers, the Rev. Norman Vincent Peale. His marriage to Ms. Maples was performed by Dr. Peale’s successor, the Rev. Arthur Caliandro, who, like Mr. Trump, was married three times. After Mr. Trump mentioned Marble on the campaign trail, the church took the unusual step last year of issuing a statement that he was not “an active member. ” The current minister says it released the statement not to dissociate itself from someone whose connection was to some members awkward, even embarrassing, but “to share accurate information. ” Mr. Trump said the statement did not upset him because, he said, it was correct: “I haven’t been back since Dr. Caliandro passed away,” three years ago at age 79. In the 1950s  —   when Mr. Trump’s father, Fred C. Trump, was building a   apartment dynasty in Brooklyn and Queens  —   the Trumps were prominent parishioners at a church close to their home, First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica, Queens. Like Marble, it is a church with a history: It describes itself as the oldest continuously worshiping Presbyterian congregation in the country. Mr. Trump was confirmed there in 1959, around the time he turned 13. “He sang the songs and did the works,” said John Walter, a cousin of Donald Trump who is the family historian. But in the 1960s, the Trumps gravitated to Marble. The lure was Dr. Peale, a household name since the publication of the 1952 best seller that transformed “the power of positive thinking” into a national catchphrase. Today he is remembered for preaching optimism and personal fulfillment, asserting that it was possible to achieve spiritual and material success in life. He himself became a wealthy man who lived on Fifth Avenue opposite the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Mr. Walter said Fred Trump maintained that “nobody else was Peale. ” That idea was echoed by Donald Trump, who in an interview described Dr. Peale as “a great preacher and a great public speaker” but said nothing about any religious beliefs he had imparted. “You always, when the service was over, you said, ‘I’d have sat there for another hour,’” Mr. Trump recalled. “There aren’t too many people like that. It wasn’t the speaking ability, it was the thought process. ” Some theologians criticized Dr. Peale’s brand of Christianity as superficial. The current senior minister, Dr. Michael B. Brown, suggested that there were really two Norman Vincent Peales  —   “Peale the motivator and Peale the pastor”  —   and that Dr. Peale’s ministry at Marble is often misunderstood because “a lot of the public thinks Peale the pastor was saying the same stuff as Peale the motivator. ” “In the motivational speaking world,” Dr. Brown added, “he would say, ‘You can if you think you can.’ In the pulpit, he would quote Philippians 4 and say, ‘I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. ’” Still, Dr. Peale’s presence made Marble a favorite of business leaders, and he helped influence the way Mr. Trump takes on the world. “Everything he does is about winning,” Gwenda Blair, the author of “The Trumps: Three Generations of Builders and a Presidential Candidate,” a biography of the family, said in a recent New York Times podcast. “It’s only about winning and losing  —   those two are the only principles that are involved. That’s a very Norman Vincent Peale notion  —   that notion of success above all. ” Dr. Peale favored Republicans  —   in 1956, he assailed the Democratic presidential candidate, Adlai E. Stevenson, because he had been divorced. Mr. Stevenson countered, “I find the Apostle Paul appealing and the Apostle Peale appalling. ” In 1960, when John F. Kennedy was the Democratic nominee, Dr. Peale and 25 other Protestant leaders were so fearful of Vatican influence on a Kennedy administration that they gathered at the invitation of the Rev. Billy Graham and discussed ways to defeat him. Dr. Peale was attacked for his involvement and later called the episode one of the most painful of his life. (Richard M. Nixon worshiped at Marble after he lost to Kennedy, and Dr. Peale supported him even as the Watergate scandal doomed his presidency.) If Mr. Trump admired Dr. Peale, the minister, too, professed admiration for Mr. Trump. In 1983, Dr. Peale sent Mr. Trump a note  —   shared by the Trump campaign  —   congratulating him on the opening of Trump Tower. Dr. Peale recalled predicting that “you were going to be America’s greatest builder. ” “You have already arrived at that status,” Dr. Peale wrote, “and believe me, as your friend, I am very proud of you. ” But Dr. Peale’s son John, 79, told The Washington Post in January that he was not pleased when Mr. Trump referred to his father. “I don’t respect Mr. Trump very much,” he was quoted as saying. “I don’t think the image of Norman Vincent Peale that comes through Donald Trump is any connection to the idea I have of him. ” In a brief telephone conversation last month, however, John Peale said that he no longer winced at the mention of Mr. Trump. But he would not elaborate. “I’ve said all I need or want to say,” he said. Dr. Brown said that Marble, which is no longer a strictly denominational congregation, was “the sort of place church is supposed to be. ” “It’s inclusive,” he said, “whether you’re talking about race, age, politics, sexuality, economics or gender. ” Asked whether that contrasts with many of Mr. Trump’s statements during the campaign, he said, “There is a difference in the world of politics and the world of church, and in the world of church, we are compelled by Jesus’s commandment  —   it wasn’t a suggestion or a request  —   it was, I command that you love one another. ” Dr. Peale stopped preaching at Marble in 1984, when he was 86 Mr. Trump said that he attended Dr. Peale’s last service. His successor, Dr. Caliandro, presided over a campaign to remodel the church’s Fifth Avenue home, built in the 1850s with marble from the same quarry as City Hall and the arch in Washington Square Park. Dr. Caliandro’s son Paul said his father told of trying to get Mr. Trump to contribute to a new roof. “My father is walking down the aisle in the middle of the sanctuary,” Paul Caliandro said. “Donald Trump is telling him things to finish the work, do this and this and this. He asks for his financial support, and Donald Trump says: ‘I just gave it to you. I saved you $100, 000. ’” Mr. Trump said he did not remember whether he was asked to contribute money for the roof, or whether he had done so. He said he had “helped them with their real estate through Dr. Caliandro and earlier through Dr. Peale. ” “I was very helpful, I know I was,” he said. “They were thankful. ” By the early 1990s, some in the congregation wondered if he was paying attention to more than the sermons. “I had a particular pew I had to sit in, and one Sunday, the usher said, ‘Would you please move over? ’” recalled Gloria Hegy, Dr. Caliandro’s first wife. The woman who squeezed in apparently liked the view from that pew. “Marla Maples wasn’t interested in sitting beside me,” Ms. Hegy said. “She was interested in Donald, who was sitting in the balcony. They kept looking at each other. ” Mr. Trump said that contrary to what the two women had told the usher  —   and contrary to a famous tabloid headline, “They Met in Church”  —   his first encounter with Ms. Maples was not at Marble. But as the relationship developed, so did the awkwardness for some at the church. “People would ask me about it,” said the Rev. Anne Benefield, who was an associate minister at Marble in the 1990s. “They would say, ‘Does Donald Trump really come?’ and I would have to say, ‘  .’ This was really embarrassing, that this man was married and having this   affair and the church was connected with it. ”