WASHINGTON  —   President Obama is delaying a planned veto of a bill that would allow the families of victims of the Sept. 11 attacks to sue Saudi Arabia for any role in the plot, hoping to tap into an unusual well of buyer’s remorse among senators who passed the measure unanimously in the spring. The measure sailed through the House last week after a surprise   vote, raising the prospect of the first veto showdown between Mr. Obama and a bipartisan coalition in Congress. But an intense lobbying campaign by the White House and Saudi Arabia, among others, has cast doubt on what had appeared to be an inevitable override of the president’s   veto. Officials have refused to say when Mr. Obama would veto the bill, and he has until next Friday to do so. His advisers are considering whether he should wait until then, after Congress is expected to recess on Thursday for the November elections, which could give him weeks to persuade lawmakers to drop their support for the measure before they return and consider the veto override. Already, cracks are showing, even among Republicans who generally would love to exercise the first veto override against Mr. Obama. “I have tremendous empathy for the victims,” said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, who, like the rest of his colleagues, agreed to the measure in May. “But at the same time, I have concerns about the precedent it would set,” fearing, as many lawmakers now do, that Americans could be sued by other nations in retaliation, or by the families of innocent people killed in drone attacks. The trepidation about overriding a presidential veto is shared by Republicans and Democrats alike. Many lawmakers apparently had believed that the House would never pass the bill, as it hastily did after the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, encountered families of the Sept. 11 victims at a   on Long Island. “I’m going to have to give very careful consideration to the president’s explanation for his veto,” said Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware. “This is a delicate balancing act. ” If Mr. Obama cannot persuade lawmakers, his aides acknowledge, proponents of the bill could muster the   of the House and Senate necessary to override a veto. “You don’t have to have an advanced degree in math to understand the significant support that exists in the United States Congress for this bill,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said on Thursday. “But the concerns that we have about this legislation are significant, and there are many members of Congress who are sympathetic to the argument. ” Mr. Obama argues that the legislation, whose passage has demonstrated the lasting clout of the Sept. 11 families, could open the United States to a barrage of lawsuits from private citizens overseas. It would amend a 1976 law that grants other countries broad immunity from American lawsuits, allowing nations to be sued in federal courts if they are found to have played any role in terrorist attacks that killed Americans on United States soil. The passage of the bill last week in the House left opponents scrambling, and it set off a week of lobbying by Saudi officials and firms that Riyadh has hired to advance its interests in Washington. On Thursday, the Saudi foreign minister, Adel   spoke with Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican, to reiterate Saudi concerns about the bill and warn of its potential consequences. “They made it very clear to us that this is a hostile act,” Mr. Graham said. “This is an odd situation. The   families are high on everyone’s list to be taken care of. But it comes at a time when Saudi Arabia believes America is not a reliable ally. ” Earlier this year, Mr. Jubeir told lawmakers that the Saudis might be forced to sell off hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of assets inside the United States if the bill became law  —   a defensive measure to ensure that they are not exposed in civil litigation. Mr. Jubeir is in the United States for the meeting of the United Nations General Assembly. Two lobbying and public relations firms under contract with the Saudi government, Qorvis MSLGroup and Podesta Group, circulated this week a compilation of recent statements by foreign officials warning that passing the legislation could set off a wave of retaliatory measures by other counties. But the   families have also been a force for policy makers to reckon with since the weeks right after the attacks, and lawmakers had no interest in getting into a public brawl with them a few months before an election. “The families have been an immensely powerful voice and face in this tragedy,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who is pressing members to override the impending veto. In a statement Thursday night, several family members said senators, including Mr. Corker and Mr. Graham, were forsaking them by working to postpone the override vote until after the elections. “Justice delayed is justice denied,” the statement said. “Who knows what if anything Congress will be doing in two months?” The White House is eager to push the veto override into the lame duck session in November both so it has more time to lobby members of Congress, and because several Republican senators who are up for   may feel pressure to override the bill now but would be less inclined to once their race is behind them.