This American presidential election is a dizzying wonder: a torrent of outrages, gaffes and   dramas, where one story blurs into the next, most of it driven by the Republican contender, Donald J. Trump. With such a ferocious pace it’s easy to lose sight of the details, especially when it comes to Mr. Trump. So here’s a quick summary of what voters have learned in recent weeks. ■ The attorney general of New York has started an investigation into the Donald J. Trump Foundation. At issue is a $25, 000 donation, made three years ago, in support of a Florida official who was weighing possible fraud charges against Mr. Trump. No charges were brought, and the official became a supporter of Mr. Trump. ■ Reporters have uncovered evidence that Mr. Trump spent $20, 000 of his charity’s money on a   tall painting of himself. It was sent to one of his private golf clubs. ■ There have been new accounts of widespread discrimination against black people at Mr. Trump’s New York properties during the 1970s. ■ Last Friday, he finally admitted that “birtherism”  —   the racially tinged smear of President Obama he repeated for five years  —   was, in fact, a lie. Instead of apologizing, Mr. Trump said the baseless conspiracy theory was started by his rival, Hillary Clinton  —   which was itself untrue. In a conventional race, any of these revelations, slanders or gaffes might be enough to torpedo a candidate. Not Mr. Trump. A New York   News poll published last week found he enjoys support among 44 percent of likely voters, a shade behind the 46 percent backing Mrs. Clinton. She remains the outright favorite, thanks to an electoral system that is based on    results. Still, her supporters have reason for concern. According to my colleagues at The Upshot, The New York Times’s   report, Mr. Trump’s chances of victory have jumped to 26 percent as of Monday evening from 10 percent in August. Another respected website, FiveThirtyEight, put his chances at 40. 6 percent on Monday morning. Mrs. Clinton’s Achilles heel is well known: A majority of Americans neither like nor trust her. If Mr. Trump is Teflon, Mrs. Clinton must be Velcro: Every transgression, real or perceived, from her   career in politics stubbornly sticks to her. When it comes to Mr. Trump, though, his enduring popularity is a mystery. Mr. Trump was among the first to note his ability to defy the laws of political gravity. “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody, and I wouldn’t lose voters,” he said in January. What’s remarkable now is how, after months of withering scrutiny  —   including accusations of graft, malfeasance and racism  —   he remains apparently immune to the effects of negative news. This is a conundrum that has perplexed many New York Times readers who live abroad. “Trump has sleaze written all over his face and behavior,” Neil Douglas, a retired teacher from Canada, wrote in an email that echoed a common sentiment. “Why can’t Americans see through his braggadocio?” In other countries, and other campaigns, politicians have been derailed by much less. In 2014, the British culture secretary, Maria Miller, resigned over a $10, 000 discrepancy in her expense report. In 2012, Mitt Romney’s challenge to Mr. Obama suffered a major blow after he made a comment that criticized 47 percent of the electorate. American congressional candidates have also been wrecked by   comments: In 2012, Todd Akin, a Republican   from Missouri, crashed out of the Senate race soon after he made a misguided statement about “legitimate rape. ” Yet in choosing their president, many American voters seem prepared to accept nearly anything Mr. Trump says or does. He has praised the Russian leader, Vladimir V. Putin, and invited foreign hackers to breach American servers. He has aired crackpot conspiracy theories, such as one linking the father of Senator Ted Cruz, his Republican primary rival, to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. (His source: The National Enquirer, better known for celebrity gossip and stories about U. F. O. s) He has defended the size of his penis, and suggested gun owners might take matters “into their hands” should Mrs. Clinton come to power. It can go wrong for Mr. Trump, a   former reality TV star, as demonstrated by his undignified feud with the family of Capt. Humayun Khan, a fallen Muslim American soldier  —   a confrontation that appeared to mark the limit of his brash, undisciplined brand of politics. Critics say it is only a matter of time before he shoots himself in the foot again, setting off a fresh plunge in popularity. For now, Mr. Trump appears to be wearing down his critics’ capacity for outrage. Protests still occur at his campaign rallies, like the one in North Carolina last week when a    woman was punched in the face. But the impassioned clashes of last spring, when rival groups squared off against each other after his speeches, have become more rare. In part, Mr. Trump’s endurance is a product of sheer churn  —   the endless stream of his own provocations. “There’s been so many scandals, so much outrage, that it’s hard to focus on any one of them,” said Charlie Sykes, a conservative talk show host and Trump critic. Mr. Sykes turned on Mr. Trump because he said that the candidate was damaging true conservatism. These days, that frequently brings him into conflict with callers to his own show, who refuse to countenance any criticism of Mr. Trump. “They don’t want to hear it,” he said. “They want their biases confirmed. ” That points to another underlying theme of this election: the vicious polarization of America’s news media. More voters than ever are getting their news from the walled gardens of Facebook and other social media sites, where   views often reinforce one another. And on mainstream channels like Fox News, conspiracy theories that were once limited to the fringes of the internet are getting an airing. As a result, public trust in the media has collapsed. A Gallup poll published last week found that 32 percent of Americans trust the news media’s ability to “report the news fully, accurately and fairly”  —   the lowest figure since Gallup started the poll in 1972. The partisan breakdown of trust is even more stark, with 14 percent of Republicans saying they trust the news media, compared with 51 percent of Democrats. On Sunday night, Mr. Obama blamed media “misinformation” for what he predicts will be a close race in November. Can any story, or revelation, hurt Mr. Trump’s Teflon qualities at this stage? Mr. Sykes, the radio host, said he believed Mr. Trump had fostered a “cult of personality” among conservatives that has few parallels in the history of American politics, “except maybe in fiction. ” “It doesn’t matter what he says, or what his ideas are,” Mr. Sykes said. “It’s about the persona. He’s the strong man. And he’s apparently figured out a way to bond with millions of Americans. ” With seven weeks until the vote, Mrs. Clinton needs to find a way to break that bond. Her next opportunity could come at the first presidential debate, on Sept. 26, at Hofstra University on Long Island. Mr. Trump may ultimately do the work for her: His bluster, lies and insults could eventually drag him down. But to ensure victory, Mrs. Clinton will also need to overcome her handicap. The high levels of voter distrust, unique in a modern presidential   leave her vulnerable.