Anna Deavere Smith is coming home. The protean actress and playwright has spent her career interviewing and then embodying people of different races and divergent points of view  —   “chasing that which is not me,” as she put it in a recent interview. But her new play, “Notes From the Field,” a prolonged meditation on education and criminal justice, is different. “This piece,” she said, “is about me. ” That may not be obvious to the audience. Like her previous work, including her most famous   plays, “Fires in the Mirror,” about the 1991 race riots in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and “Twilight: Los Angeles, 1992,” about the Rodney King riots, “Notes From the Field” is based on scores of interviews. Ms. Smith plays 19 characters, including Linda Wayman, the dedicated principal of a struggling high school in Philadelphia Kevin Moore, the deli worker in Baltimore who videotaped police officers dragging Freddie Gray into a police transport van and Niya Kenny, the high school student in Columbia, S. C. who videotaped a sheriff’s deputy slamming a    girl on the floor in an effort to extract her from her desk. As in her other plays, these people are represented in their own words, with Ms. Smith reproducing their intonation and cadence. But the themes in “Notes From the Field” are unusually personal, she said in an interview in Cambridge, Mass. in late August. Her mother was a teacher and then a principal in the Baltimore public school system many aunts and family friends were also teachers. All these women believed strongly in the power of education to lift children out of poverty. But her interviews revealed a system that no longer seemed able to do that in most cases. Instead, many children came to school angry, hurt or simply without the requisite   and quickly got into trouble. Some of the most disturbing stories she heard about harsh discipline early on were about the Baltimore schools. “I was like, ‘Oh my God, I’ve been gone from there all these years, and this is not the Baltimore that I knew,’” she said. “And I was like, ‘Man, it is time to go home. ’” She was sitting in a rehearsal room after a matinee at the American Repertory Theater, where she performed the play before its current run at Second Stage Theater, where it is in previews and opens on Nov. 2. Having just spent two hours onstage, she appeared tired, but still paused twice, amid answering questions about the play, to ask a reporter what she thought of certain issues in education. She was wearing soft white pants, a white   and neon rubber   sandals. She sipped tea out of a Harvard mug. Even at lower than usual volume, her voice was captivating  —   deep and slightly husky  —   and when she laughed, it was a hearty cackle. She explained the long and somewhat complicated genesis of the play. “Notes From the Field” began as an investigation of the   “   pipeline”  —   a phrase that refers to the tendency of punitive discipline and police presence in schools to draw young minority students into the criminal justice system. But as she did her research, Ms. Smith said, and spoke to educators, social scientists and others about the role of trauma in children’s lives, she became less enamored of the phrase “   pipeline,” which she believes “blames schools and teachers for something that’s so much bigger. ” Four educators are portrayed in the play. Tony Eady’s job title at North Charleston High School is “Student Concerns Specialist,” which he, by way of Ms. Smith, says means that he is “the eyes and ears” for the principal. He had been employed in a   prison before coming back to work at the high school, which he also attended. “I often tell some of my colleagues that the penitentiary where I used to work and the school, it is similar,” he says in the play. “These kids wanna control you. Be able to test you. Manipulate you. ” His wife works at another high school, and they talk on the phone every day as they are driving to work, giving each other pep talks. Ms. Smith said he’s important to the play because his viewpoint is likely to challenge her usual audience. “I really wish I had more voices like Mr. Eady,” she acknowledged. “Somebody who says: ‘This is hard. They’re disrespectful. They’re disobedient, and I can’t touch ‘em and grab ‘em anymore, and that’s why I need a cop. Because you took that away from me. You took the   discipline away. ’” The section of “Notes From the Field” about Baltimore is focused on the death of Mr. Gray and is less clearly about education than the rest of the play, although the bleak prospects faced by young men like Mr. Gray are partly a matter of education, or the lack of it. Besides Mr. Moore, there is Allen Bullock, a protester who describes feeling hatred from the police, and Jamal Bryant, a pastor whose eulogy for Mr. Gray describes the victim as caught in a   crisis, with no doors open to him. Ms. Smith, who had not visited Baltimore in many years, went twice in the spring of 2015  —   first, shortly before Mr. Gray’s death, for her younger brother’s funeral, and then a month later, in the wake of the protests, to conduct research for the play. She was shocked by the physical ruin of parts of the city. Her childhood neighborhood looked “bombed out,” she said. She visited her alma mater, Western High School, and found it very changed, as well. This   school had many Jewish students when she attended, some of whom she befriended through student government. She cannot remember any serious discipline issues. Now, because of white flight, the student body is mostly black, and there are fights and other problems. “That principal has to be not just a principal  —   she has to be a social worker,” Ms. Smith said. Second Stage has made two changes to the play. A subtitle, “Doing Time in Education,” was dropped because, the artistic director, Carole Rothman, said, “I don’t think the piece is only about education. ” Also, at the A. R. T. and at Berkeley Repertory Theater, where the play ran in the summer of 2015, there was a   second act in which audience members were organized into groups to talk about the problems it raised. Ms. Rothman said they were not doing that in New York mostly for space reasons  —   the theater’s lobby is small  —   but also because, she said, “New York is a little different than Harvard in terms of how people deal with their time. ” Ms. Smith said she had wrestled with how to get audience members to think more actively about the issues the play brings up. “There’s so much to learn about, how do you get an audience to change its position from the passive spectator?” she said in Cambridge. “What causes an audience to really say, ‘Well, what can I do about this? ’”