The children around the world who need emergency international assistance the most come mainly from the countries singled out in President Trump’s order barring entry to the United States, according to a United Nations assessment. Five of the seven countries where children are most imperiled are on Mr. Trump’s list of nations where visas are suspended: Iraq, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. The children most at risk are Syrian, whether they have fled as refugees or are still in their country, according to Unicef, the United Nations’ children’s agency. All Syrians have been barred indefinitely from entering the United States under Mr. Trump’s executive order. Other countries where Unicef says children are imperiled include the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Nigeria and South Sudan. They are not part of Mr. Trump’s temporary ban on visas  —   though the order also bars all refugees, regardless of where they come from, for 120 days. “This shows who the ban really impacts: the world’s most vulnerable, women and children who are fleeing terror,” said Jennifer Sime, a senior vice president at the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian organization focused on refugees. “America is turning away from its leadership role on refugee resettlement, and it is refugees who are paying the price. ” The United Nations compiled the assessment weeks before Mr. Trump signed the executive order and published it on Tuesday. Here is what the Unicef report says the agency needs for the five countries included in the executive order where children are most at risk. The United Nations says it needs around $1 billion to aid children displaced by six years of conflict in Syria. Calling the Syrian refugee crisis “the largest humanitarian crisis since the end of World War II,” Unicef says there are more than 2. 2 million children living as refugees in countries neighboring Syria. The organization is also asking for more than $300 million to help more than 5. 8 million children still living in the   country. It says most of that money is needed for water, sanitation, hygiene and medical aid. Unicef is seeking about $200 million in aid for Yemen, which is in a civil war and straining from a devastating famine. The organization says the bulk of that money would go to feed 6. 9 million children this year. More than 5. 1 million children are in need in Iraq, about   of them displaced from their homes by conflict. The United Nations is seeking about $160 million to vaccinate more than five million children under 5 against polio. The United Nations plans to help more than two million Sudanese children under 5 who are acutely malnourished. Unicef is seeking more than $100 million, most of it for nutrition programs. “Somalia remains in a state of chronic humanitarian crisis,” Unicef said in its appeal for more than $60 million, estimating that as many as 850, 000 children there who are under 5 will be acutely malnourished in 2017.