The Obama administration’s directive last week instructing public schools to allow transgender students to use bathrooms and locker rooms of the gender they identify with has set off an intense debate. Many politicians and parents have raised alarms about privacy and warned of predatory boys sneaking into girls’ bathrooms. But others say that such accommodations are critical protections for a vulnerable population. For all of the heated debate, a central fact remains elusive: How many students are we talking about? No one knows for sure. Researchers have not figured out how to obtain consistent, reliable answers from teenagers, much less younger children. The best estimates are that the population is small, probably under 1 percent of adolescents. There are none. Pediatricians generally do not ask patients about their gender identity, and if they do, they do not usually report findings in national health registries. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which analyzes much of our behavioral health data, has tested ways for students to identify themselves as transgender. But it has not yet settled on a satisfactory method, and it does not expect to include such a question in its adolescent health survey before 2019. Some local surveys have been done, with results falling in a narrow range. A 2015 health behavior survey of 18, 494 high school students in Dane County, Wis. which includes Madison, found that 1. 5 percent of students identified themselves as transgender. In 2006, the Boston Youth Survey asked 1, 032 public high school students, “Are you transgender?” The responses were 1. 6 percent yes, 86. 3 percent no, and 6. 3 percent “don’t know. ” An additional 5. 7 percent skipped the question. Some believe that these estimates are low, “because trans identity has become more salient and acceptance has increased,” said Jody L. Herman, a scholar of public policy at the U. C. L. A. School of Law’s Williams Institute. “But we don’t have any way of knowing that. ” Interestingly, in surveys, a higher proportion of teenagers than adults tend to identify themselves as transgender. Analyzing adult survey data from Massachusetts and California, the Williams Institute estimated in 2011 that 700, 000 adults, or 0. 3 percent of the national population, were transgender, a number that is frequently cited. Lots of reasons. The situation in which a survey is conducted  —   in school a telephone call an   interview  —   will influence the candor of the response. So will the wording of the question. In some surveys, for example, students have been asked, “Do you identify as: a) male, b) female or c) transgender?” “That is a terrible question because you can only select one,” said Emily A. Greytak, director of research at G. L. S. E. N. the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network. “‘So what do I check? Transgender?’ Or they’ll check girl, because ‘I want to be a girl.’ So you get bad data. ” And they are, after all, teenagers. “You end up with adolescents who don’t read the question carefully, or who will check ‘D’ for everything, or will choose what they think is a   option,” said Kerith Conron, a social and psychiatric epidemiologist at the Fenway Institute in Boston, which develops health programs for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people, among others. Still, despite all of the imperfect information, researchers have come up with a best estimate for the number of transgender teenagers. “We all have a sense that the number is probably between 0. 5 percent and 1. 5 percent,” Dr. Greytak said. The Obama administration’s directive covers elementary schools, too. But the number of very young children who identify as transgender is even harder to determine. Almost no research has been done on child gender identity. One challenge is that much of the information would have to come from parents. Dr. Conron, who has worked with parents of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youths, said, “Parents often do not know that a child’s gender identity is different from their assigned sex at birth until their child, or another person, often in adolescence, tells them so. ” Some developmental psychologists say that children as young as 2 or 3 can express a gender identity that is at odds with the one defined by their genitalia. But other children take years, even decades, to determine that they are transgender. Younger children whose behavior and preferences may not be solidly masculine or feminine are increasingly called “ ” or “ ” by educators, psychologists and parents. Those who work with transgender students say that school accommodations will affect few students. But the effect for transgender students, they say, is powerful. Many studies have shown that transgender students are a particularly vulnerable group. They are disproportionately affected by bullying and have higher rates of suicide than the population at large. “There’s a lot of documentation about how hunger impacts a kid’s ability to learn, how they can’t concentrate,” Dr. Conron said. “In my research with transgender youth, many talk about having to ‘hold it’ all day because they cannot access an appropriate, safe bathroom. Can you imagine how not being able to void would impact one’s ability to concentrate and succeed at school?”