Good evening on this   Thursday. This is New York Tonight, a   evening roundup of the day’s most important New York stories. We are running it for a week as an experiment, so tell us what you think at nytonight@nytimes. com or in the comments. A New Jersey Transit train crashed into the station in Hoboken, N. J. this morning, killing at least one person, injuring more than 100 others, and leaving commuters in horror and panic. With a deadly explosion and a bus crash in our rearview mirror, this hasn’t been the easiest of weeks. But what an example of our region coming together. Yet again. Michael Larson, a New Jersey Transit employee who was at the station at the time of the crash, crawled on all fours to pull people out of a train car. Another witness who was on the train, Amy Krulewitz, said that as soon as the accident occurred, people in her car were immediately checking on one another. Facebook quickly instituted a safety check to help those involved let their friends and family members know they were O. K. If you’re one of the 60, 000 people moving through this Hoboken hub each day, here’s a transit guide with information on alternative commutes. It would be a good idea to plan ahead. We will also have the weather to deal with. A storm is brewing. We’re expecting a wet night Thursday, followed by rain and wind much of Friday and Saturday, and possibly on Sunday. Stay dry. •  Michael J. Fahy, the Fire Department chief killed in Tuesday’s home explosion in the Bronx, was posthumously promoted to deputy chief, the department’s highest Civil Service rank. [FDNY] • A woman was stabbed to death by her roommate in Ridgewood, Queens. [DNAinfo] • . .. And a young woman was found dead in Owl’s Head Park in Brooklyn. [New York Post] • The developer Tishman Speyer filed plans today for the Spiral, a $3. 2 billion office skyscraper in the    Hudson Yards area. [The Real Deal] • City public schools are teaming up with the New York Public Library, Google and other partners to offer thousands of students free   in their homes. [Staten Island Advance] • Today is National Coffee Day. There were, and still are, freebies and markdowns on coffee around the city. [NBC] • How to control the deer population on Staten Island? Perform vasectomies on hundreds of them. [Staten Island Advance] • On tonight’s sports front: Yankees host Red Sox, 7:05 p. m. (YES). • Looking ahead: The 54th New York Film Festival, hosted by the Film Society of Lincoln Center, begins on Friday. Check out the screening and events schedule here, a splendid way to spend what is shaping up to be a rainy weekend. “How to Juggle Coffee and Umbrellas in Manhattan” Dear Diary: On a recent rainy morning I walked out of a Dunkin’ Donuts on Eighth Avenue and realized that with my coffee in one hand, I couldn’t quite manage to open the umbrella I was holding in the other. I looked around for a ledge on which I could place my coffee, to no avail. Then I noticed a woman leaving the same Dunkin’ Donuts, with the same dilemma and the same puzzled look on her face. I approached her, smiled and, without saying anything, reached out for her coffee. I held it while she opened her umbrella, then she did the same for me. “Teamwork!” she exclaimed. “Have a great day!” And I did.