Disclaimer right off the bat: This is not, nor does it claim to be, an authentic   cassata. It’s not my grandmother’s   recipe. The classic Sicilian cassata is a spongecake layered with creamy sweetened ricotta, a heavenly combination. Elaborately decorated with colorful candied fruits, wrapped in marzipan, true cassata is a sight to behold. My simple summery version is covered with ripe red strawberries, but any fresh summer berries would be welcome, or slices of nectarine, peach or mango. The unswerving requirements for this cassata are a good spongecake and the best ricotta available. Look for the absolute freshest, tastiest ricotta most good cheese stores or Italian delis can supply it. It must be moist, with no sourness. A spoonful should feel creamy on the tongue, not grainy. It’s worth tasting several kinds to see the broad range of ricotta types. Lightly sweetened and whisked to smoothness, this ricotta filling is spread over the cake layers as if it were frosting. Though   can sometimes have strict rules, there’s a fair amount of leeway here. If you like lemon, you can increase the amount of lemon zest in the cake, for instance, or add a little to the filling. You may play around with the syrup, replacing grappa with light rum, or you may use limoncello instead, or a honey syrup or orange liqueur. And you may decrease the sweetness of the cake or filling, if desired, without compromising flavor. Ideally, the spongecake should be made a day ahead, so it is easily sliced into thin layers. And then the cassata should be assembled at least several hours in advance to allow flavors to meld. Paint the cake layers with the lemon syrup, spread each layer with the ricotta cream, and give the cake an afternoon (or a day) in the fridge. Just before serving, pile the cake with ripe berries. You could toss them with a little sugar and lemon juice first, or just arrange them on the cake and dust them lightly with confectioners’ sugar. Though my cassata is rather rustic looking, it is somewhat fancier than shortcake or trifle, so it could be used as a summer birthday cake. But it’s really a celebration unto itself for lovers of summer fruit and good ricotta. Recipe: Strawberry Cassata | Easy Summer Desserts