Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking seven days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Good morning. The bunting’s up, the beer cold in the fridge. There’s a lamb shoulder collapsing under the smoke of fruitwood out in the yard, and Julia Moskin’s salty pluff mud pie rests comfortably on the windowsill to cool. Independence Day is tomorrow, and friends will arrive to consume burgers and brats, ribs and potato salad, coleslaw, iced tea, prosecco, more. But today is for family. Today is for us. See if you can’t make it that way as well. Many of us here in the world of Cooking identify as hosts. The word has two definitions. The first is familiar: a person who receives or entertains guests. The second comes from biology and is a little grim: an animal in which a parasite or commensal animal lives. On holiday weekends, the former can sometimes feel like the latter. The best way to stay sane is to carve out a meal or two over the course of the weekend for the nuclear unit of family, even if the nuclear unit is one. So maybe make lamb sandwiches and that delicious pie. Or cook a simple omelet, according to the instructions of Jacques Pépin. You might try Julia’s recipe for a cucumber salad with yogurt, dill, sour cherries and, if you can find any, rose petals. Or you could make pad Thai and watch television. Make gazpacho and listen to Alejandro Escovedo and Ryan Adams sing “Castanets. ” Make Sunday a family day, and the coming holiday party will be all the more sweet. On Monday, you can go big with the cooking festivities. Eat leftovers on Tuesday night, with a big pot of rice and beans. For the Wednesday night meal, how about the recipe for flattened chicken thighs with roasted lemon slices that Julia brought to us last week, part of her awesome report on the state of the   pan? If you’ve got two of the things, you could also make her recipe for crisp toffee bars, an adaptation of Charlotte Druckman’s adaptation of a Maida Heatter recipe. It’s incredibly good. Thursday night, we could go for some salmon. Maybe my recipe for fillets roasted with brown sugar and mustard? Or David Tanis’s recipe for salmon with green sauce? Have you made Melissa Clark’s recipe for baked potatoes topped with salmon roe and crème fraîche yet? You really ought to, before the world grows too hot to bake. And then on Friday night, you can put on your host face again, and assemble a taco bar for everyone who wants to join. A simple search for “tacos” on our site yields many, many good ideas for such a dinner. I’m thinking fish tacos, myself. You may prefer them with black beans and chard. Just browse the site and apps, and save the recipes you’re interested in cooking to your recipe box. (Here’s mine, if you want an example of how big they can get.) Rate their success on a scale of one to five stars. Leave a note on a recipe if you have one to add to the conversation. By all means, share them with friends and family via email and the wonders of social media. And don’t forget: If you run into problems along the way, we’ll be standing by to help (cookingcare@nytimes. com). Now, have you read Lorrie Moore on Helen Gurley Brown in The New York Review of Books? Or considered what the Houston Texans defensive end J. J. Watt eats each day, according to GQ? Or heard Sampha’s new song, up on the Fader website? Do all of that in blessed solitude, then get into the kitchen and make life better for others. Have a great holiday.