“The theater must always be a safe and special place. ” When I read that Donald J. Trump had tweeted those words on Saturday morning, my gut response was to wish that the great American playwright Edward Albee had been alive to respond to our  . Not that Mr. Albee, who died in September, would have objected to the “special” part, or not on grounds other than semantic, “special” being a word of such promiscuous overuse these days. But it was Mr. Albee’s credo that theater  —   or theater as an enduring art, as opposed to an evening’s entertainment  —   should be anything but safe. I loved him for insisting on that belief, and for consistently acting on it in everything he wrote for the stage. Theater, as the ancient and exalted public forum that Mr. Albee wanted it to be forever, exists to challenge complacency, to make us uncomfortable with our assumptions. It is a place where conversations of momentous moral, philosophical and political significance can and should be initiated. Such exchanges have been started by dramatists as different as Sophocles, Shakespeare, Arthur Miller, Vaclav Havel, David Hare, Tony Kushner and, yes, Mr. Albee. And even when the plays were written decades, if not centuries, ago, the dialogues they began have in many cases never ceased to reverberate. Of course it was a more literal kind of dialogue, one that broke the commonly   wall between actors and audience, that antagonized Mr. Trump into a series of admonitory tweets. On Friday night, his vice   Mike Pence, attended a performance of the Broadway hit “Hamilton,” a historical (and historic) musical that, among other things, makes the case for the United States as a nation founded and shaped by immigrants. After the final curtain calls that night, Brandon Victor Dixon, the actor who portrays Aaron Burr, stepped forward with a microphone to directly address Mr. Pence, who was leaving the theater. “We, sir  —   we  —   are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new administration will not protect us,” he said. He added that he hoped “this show has inspired you to uphold our American values and to work on behalf of all of us. All of us. ” Mr. Trump quickly made it clear on Twitter, his social medium of choice, that Mr. Dixon and the “Hamilton” team had been “rude and insulting” and owed Mr. Pence an apology. At first, a part of me could see Mr. Trump’s point, or at least feel a shudder of embarrassed empathy for Mr. Pence. If someone were to single me out for a direct plea from the stage in a large theater, I would no doubt want to run home, dive into bed and bury myself under the covers. (Mr. Pence, speaking on “Fox News Sunday,” said he was not offended by Mr. Dixon’s words.) Thinking more rationally, I believe it can also be argued that a great work of art  —   a distinction for which “Hamilton” easily qualifies  —   should be sufficient unto itself. Though   Miranda’s Tony   show has been embraced as Broadway’s favorite   musical of the moment, this portrait of a revolution is in itself revolutionary, with the provocation and defiance that such a characterization suggests. “Hamilton” makes a sustained and vibrant case for the virtues of an American melting pot. This is as true of its form (which melds rap and   into the classic book musical) and its casting (which uses black and Latino men and women to portray the white founders of the United States) as of its content. (Don’t forget, this is a show in which the title character, Alexander Hamilton, and the Marquis de Lafayette exult on the battlefield: “Immigrants, we get the job done. ”) The very presence of Mr. Pence  —   whose views on immigration, like those of Mr. Trump, are anything but celebratory  —   at this particular show (one previously embraced by the Obamas and Clintons) would seem to signal that an unspoken debate was going on that night. In that case, wasn’t Mr. Dixon belaboring the obvious in delivering the statement prepared by him and his associates (including Mr. Miranda)? Was what he said a condescending equivalent of supertitles for the inferentially challenged? Any inclinations I might have had to think that way evaporated in the face of the succeeding barrage of Mr. Trump’s tweets (which were still continuing on Sunday morning). They underscored for me just how much we are living in a world that demands overstatement, in which italicized capital letters are required to highlight sentiments that might otherwise go ignored. Woe unto those who believe that the meanings between the lines will be widely read. Much of the success of Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign had to do with his awareness of that reality of contemporary communication. In delivering his plea to Mr. Pence, Mr. Dixon wasn’t just emphasizing that a play is more than a   work of art, that it’s a cry of thought and feeling pitched to an audience, a city, a nation, a world. He was also addressing Mr. Trump (through Mr. Pence) on his own blunt terms, albeit in a more eloquent (and, yes, polite) style. He was meeting directness with directness, carefully spelling out what his show had to say. If the recent past is anything to go by, it is fair to assume that Mr. Trump will encounter more direct salvos from theater artists once he assumes the presidency. Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon, George W. Bush (Remember Will Ferrell in “You’re Welcome America”?) and Barack Obama have all been the subjects of theater satires while in office. Those portraying Johnson and Nixon  —   created in a time when the nation was as contentiously divided as it is now, the 1960s and early ’70s  —   were especially savage in their attacks. So will the political theater of the future prove a match for all the president’s thumbs? In any case, disagreement and dissent should energize art, not paralyze it, and provoke responses to match. I look forward (though perhaps with a wince) to whatever Mr. Trump has to say about whatever is said about him on this country’s stages. The main thing is that the conversation  —   all sides of it  —   be allowed to continue.