BARCELONA, Spain  —   President Trump’s travel ban disrupted the plans of hundreds of people around the globe, but perhaps none more vulnerable than Sham Aldaher, a Syrian refugee girl, and her family. Sham, now 1½, was born without an eye and with a seriously disfigured face. Following two complex operations at a Barcelona hospital, Sham is due to receive an eye prosthesis next Wednesday. Her family had then planned to resettle in the United States. They had already completed the required interviews and cleared all security checks before the plans were blocked by  Mr. Trump’s  executive order to bar citizens from Syria and six other   countries seen as threatening to America’s safety. “They were   and they are now barred,” said Jayne Fleming, the head of the human rights team at Reed Smith, an American law firm that has been helping Sham and her family. Ms. Fleming and her team are now scrambling to see whether Britain, Germany or another country could instead welcome the family. “They’re distressed over not knowing what the future holds for them. ” The Aldahers’ story is a nomadic tragedy, telling of the accumulated hardships that have been piled on many Syrian refugees. It is also a small but striking example of the broader crisis highlighted in a United Nations report issued on Tuesday showing that the children most in need of emergency international assistance come from five of the seven countries covered by Mr. Trump’s order. Sham’s parents left Syria and their jobs as teachers in 2013. They traveled with their three children to Lebanon and then Egypt. But their arrival coincided with the unrest and military coup that removed Mohamed Morsi as Egypt’s president. “We left our home to find safety, but in Egypt there were bombings in the night and the children were very afraid,” said Ali Aldaher, Sham’s father. So the family packed up again to join thousands of other Syrian refugees in Jordan. Sham was born there in July 2015, on the day of the Muslim holiday of Eid  . The coincidence was seen as a blessing by her parents, but it complicated Sham’s birth, as most local hospital workers were on vacation and the family could not find a doctor. Even though a midwife eventually assisted in the birth, Sham’s mother “did not receive the health care she needed and I’m sure all the stress hurt,” Mr. Aldaher recounted. When Sham was born, her father tried to calm his wife by pretending Sham was keeping one eye shut, even though he could see that she had no eyelid and a misshaped face. “Before the birth of Sham, my worries were how would I support my family, without any work in Jordan and without money,” Mr. Aldaher said. “After she was born, we forgot about food, our problems, ourselves and even our other children to start our new journey of suffering for Sham, to see how we could possibly care for this child. ” Sham’s family received assistance from different nongovernmental organizations, including Doctors Without Borders. Lawyers from Reed Smith started searching for a hospital capable of undertaking such advanced surgery, while helping the family apply for resettlement in the United States. The lawyers then delayed the move to America because they could not simultaneously find an American hospital ready to treat Sham at no cost. Instead, the Sant Joan de Déu hospital in Barcelona agreed to help. Entering Spain, however, also proved a struggle. In June 2016, the Spanish government granted Sham’s family permission to travel to Barcelona, shortly after The New York Times published an article about the infant’s plight and Spain’s refusal to grant visas to the whole family. Even before Mr. Trump’s executive order to bar citizens of some countries from entering the United States, on security grounds, many European governments were dragging their feet in meeting their own commitments to welcome more refugees, following a European Union agreement reached in September 2015. By the end of 2016, about 900 refugees had resettled in Spain, out of the quota of 17, 377 agreed on by Spain’s government. Sham underwent two major facial surgeries in Barcelona. In August, doctors reset her facial bones, also to make room for an eye orbit. In December, they fissured her skin into an eyelid and implanted fat taken from Sham’s bottom into the artificial orbit, which was then   with a curved plastic shell. Sham is due to receive her eye prosthesis next Wednesday. Dr. Joan Prat, the chief ophthalmologist at the Sant Joan de Déu hospital, said he used a unique technique to “invent a cavity from zero. ” The eye surgery was not only difficult but also urgent, because Sham’s face will soon reach a level of development that would make the disfigurement permanent. “Either we did something now or it was game over,” Dr. Prat said. The kind of disorder suffered by Sham, known as anophthalmia, occurs “only every few years,” he added. The surgery was a success, but Dr. Prat said Sham should remain under close monitoring, not only because of her face but also because of other health concerns, including her failure to put on weight. Further surgery will be required to correct facial asymmetries as she grows, while her eye prothesis will also need replacement. Sham and her family were granted residency in Spain until late December. They have been housed in a   apartment, a stone’s throw from the Sagrada Família, Barcelona’s emblematic basilica. Ms. Fleming said that the family wanted to live in the United States in large part because Sham could get excellent   medical care there. She acknowledged that the family was now concerned about a backlash against Muslims in America and that “they are distressed by rhetoric that brands them as terrorists. ” In Barcelona, Sham’s family has received support from the city, as well as Caritas and other nongovernmental organizations. Sham’s siblings have joined a local school. On a bookshelf, the family keeps a small Quran that is among the few items that traveled with them from Syria. A prayer mat is also pinned to the wall, but the family normally goes to a Barcelona mosque for Friday Prayer. When the girl was born, her mother gave her an ancient name for Syria, Sham. Wherever the family finally ends up living, she said, “one day Sham will ask me what is the meaning of her name and I will at least be able to tell her that it is your country, it is Syria. ”