When Patriots quarterback Tom Brady can’t make it through a pregame news conference without talking about our president, it’s official: Donald Trump overshadows everything. Even the Super Bowl. On today’s episode of “The Daily,” we discuss what happens when the biggest story in sports meets the biggest story in politics. And a bloody mission in Yemen reminds us that a new administration doesn’t always mean a new start. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes. com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if that isn’t enough, we can even text. If you are on your phone and don’t see an audio player on this page, follow the instructions below. On your iPhone or iPad: Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link, which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search just type “The Daily. ”) Once on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play the episode (make sure you have an internet connection) and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. Or if you have another preferred podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.) On your Android phone or tablet: Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link, which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search just type “The Daily. ”) Once on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play the episode (make sure you have an internet connection) and tap on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. Or if you have another preferred podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.) From a desktop or laptop: Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes. . On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap: Open your Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “Settings,” then select “Flash Briefing,” then select “Get more Flash Briefing Content. ” Look for “The New York Times” and select “Enable Skill. ” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear “The Daily. ” On Google Home: You can say “Okay, Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s audio report.