MOSCOW  —   All died far from the front lines in circumstances unrelated to military action. They died in elaborate ambushes, car bomb attacks and, in one case, a   elevator. The latest died on Wednesday in an explosion in his office. The staccato of about half a dozen assassinations of commanders in the   separatist army in eastern Ukraine has become one of the riddles of the war there since 2015, when the first unexplained killings of Cossack militia leaders occurred. Ukrainian officials have denied any involvement in the killings, while welcoming them for thinning the ranks of the breakaway military. The authorities in Kiev say the deaths point to either infighting in the separatist leadership or efforts by Russia to consolidate control by eliminating erratic, if popular, local commanders on their own side. The assassinations could ease peace talks Ukraine had refused direct negotiations with the rebel leadership as long as men it deemed war criminals held senior posts. Rebel officials blamed Ukraine for the latest death, of Mikhail Tolstykh, best known by his nom de guerre, Givi. The Kremlin spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, denied any Russian role. Mr. Tolstykh died early Wednesday when a rocket was fired from a portable launcher into the window of his office, a separatist news agency reported. The blast blew out windows and started a fire. A Ukrainian military spokesman, Aleksandr Motuzyanik, suggested to journalists in Kiev that Mr. Tolstykh’s own soldiers might be to blame in a   fragging episode, or the killing of an officer. His unit, Mr. Motuzyanik said, suffered heavy losses in a recent   of fighting near the town of Avdiivka, creating “many enemies and  . ” The other victims of the assassinations include Arsen Pavlov, who went by the nickname Motorola and was killed in the elevator bombing Aleksei Mozgovoy, a former restaurant cook turned commander of a unit called the Ghost Brigade and Aleksandr Bednov, who went by the nickname Batman. The European Union placed Mr. Pavlov, a Russian citizen, on sanctions lists after he boasted in an interview of shooting 15 Ukrainian soldiers who were taken prisoner during the fight for the Donetsk city airport in 2015. Mr. Tolstykh also played a prominent role in that battle and appeared in a video forcing kneeling, captured Ukrainian soldiers to eat the cloth Ukrainian flag insignia from their uniforms. The assassinations have caused enough worry among rebel commanders that a year ago Aleksandr Khodakovsky, leader of the Vostok battalion, insinuated a Russian role in a post on the social network LiveJournal. “I ask you again,” he wrote in a sarcastic letter addressed to Russian authorities that noted the car bombings and machine gun bursts in earlier attacks, “if it comes to taking measures against me, try to do it in a way that others don’t suffer. ”