A   panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on Thursday unanimously upheld a Federal District Court judge’s decision to temporarily block the Trump administration from carrying out its executive order on immigration. The executive order would bar entry into the United States of citizens from seven   countries. Here are some highlights from the ruling: The court summarizes what the case is about at this stage. Its job is not to look squarely at whether the executive order is lawful, but rather at whether the standards have been met to temporarily block the government from enforcing it while the broader legal questions are more fully considered. The judges unanimously decided to keep blocking the order. The Trump administration had argued that the appeals court should reject the lawsuit without scrutinizing any of its legal merits, because the two states that filed it had no standing to sue. The appeals court disagreed, primarily because of the impact the travel ban would have on public universities. The Trump administration has argued that the judiciary should stay out of the case. The appeals court strongly disagrees as a matter of constitutional first principles. Several days after Mr. Trump issued his executive order, the administration partially pulled back with a directive from his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, saying it would not apply to green card holders. The judges are dubious about the credibility of what the executive branch says is happening. This is the core of the ruling. The court thinks it is likely that the executive order will eventually be struck down as an unconstitutional violation of people’s due process rights. In deciding whether to let the executive order be enforced while the arguments are more fully litigated, the courts have to weigh the potential injury to the people who would be affected by the travel ban against the potential injury to society of blocking the order in the interim. Because the Trump administration offered no evidence suggesting that the prior system was inadequate for screening visitors from the seven countries, the court ruled against the government.