■ President Trump, Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, and their wives will fly to    in Palm Beach, Fla. for dinner and a weekend of golf. ■ Treasury   Steven Mnuchin’s confirmation vote, originally slated for a rare Saturday session in the Senate, has been pushed to Monday. Mr. Trump overruled his newly minted secretary of state, Rex W. Tillerson, and rejected the secretary’s choice for his deputy at the department, two people briefed on the decision said Friday. The deputy’s job was denied for Elliott Abrams, a conservative who had served under President Ronald Reagan and President George W. Bush, deals a blow to Mr. Tillerson in his first week on the job. The rejection of Mr. Abrams leaves Mr. Tillerson without a sherpa to help guide the   government official around the State Department headquarters. Mr. Trump had a productive meeting with Mr. Abrams on Tuesday, according to a White House official and a person close to Mr. Abrams. But after it took place, Mr. Trump learned of Mr. Abrams’s pointed criticisms of the president when he was running for president, the administration official said. Among those criticisms was a column headlined “When You Can’t Stand Your Candidate,” which appeared in May 2016 in The Weekly Standard. Mr. Trump has been increasingly focused on who was with him or against him during his campaign, according to several people who have spoken with him in recent days. Mr. Tillerson had argued strongly for Mr. Abrams. So had Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s    and a senior adviser. Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas who is closely aligned with friends of Mr. Abrams’ and some members of the   lobbying group Aipac, had been reaching out to Democratic senators to impress upon them the importance of Mr. Abrams receiving Senate confirmation. Aides to Mr. Trump did not respond to an email seeking comment. The revelation that Michael T. Flynn, President Trump’s national security adviser, apparently discussed sanctions with Russia’s ambassador to the United States in the weeks before the inauguration has given Democrats a new cudgel to revive discussions of Mr. Trump’s ties to Russian President Vladimir V. Putin. And they are swinging it. Representative Eric Swalwell of California, the ranking Democrat on the C. I. A. subcommittee of the House Intelligence Committee, called it “a crime for someone outside of our government to negotiate with foreign entities on our nation’s behalf. ” Senators Christopher S. Murphy of Connecticut and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, both Democrats, were similarly scathing in a joint statement. Said Mr. Murphy: With the legal fight over President Trump’s travel ban apparently headed for the Supreme Court, a leading contender for the job of arguing the government’s cases before the highest court has dropped out of consideration. The candidate, Charles J. Cooper, said he was withdrawing as a possible nominee for solicitor general of the United States “after witnessing the treatment of my friend Jeff Sessions,” who was approved as attorney general Wednesday evening after bruising attacks by Senate Democrats over his civil rights record. Mr. Cooper, a conservative Washington lawyer who argued against gay marriage in an important California case, said that after what Mr. Sessions “had to endure at the hands of a partisan opposition that will say anything and do anything to advance their political interests, I am unwilling to subject myself, my family, and my friends to such a process. ” His withdrawal appears to leave George T. Conway, a New York lawyer who is married to Kellyanne Conway, a top White House aide, as the leading contender for solicitor general. Mr. Trump said Thursday that he expected to select a new nominee in about a week. Whoever gets confirmed for the job could end up arguing the legality of Mr. Trump’s travel ban before the Supreme Court. No wonder Mr. Trump wants the Mexicans to pay for it. The wall on the southern border  —   really a set of fences and walls  —   would take three and a half years to build and would cost $21. 6 billion, according to an internal report by the Department of Homeland Security that was seen by Reuters. That’s well over the $12 billion estimated by Mr. Trump during the campaign, and the upper bound of $15 billion cited by Republican leaders in Congress. At a time when federal deficits are again expected to grow, the amount is not pocket change. As the population ages and draws on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, the Congressional Budget Office is already expecting the government to heap nearly $10 trillion onto the federal debt over the coming decade  —   and that is with statutory caps on domestic and military spending. Mr. Trump has already vowed to bust through those caps on the military side of the ledger, something that would take an act of Congress. Now he’ll have to pay extra for his promised wall  —   either out of existing domestic programs or above the nondefense caps. Mr. Trump is still pretty miffed that a   panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously upheld a restraining order against his travel ban from seven   countries. We can also deduce what he was watching on television: MSNBC’s Morning Joe. Wonder why it took 12 minutes to compose that post on Twitter. On Thursday night, The New York Times published a scoop: the president of the United States had not spoken to the president of China, Xi Jinping, who was icing him out over his unorthodox call with the leader of Taiwan during his transition to power, and his suggestion that just maybe, Washington would no longer follow the “One China” policy (which affirms that Taiwan is a province of the mainland). Hours later, the White House issued a statement that, hey, not only had Mr. Trump just spoken to Mr. Xi, he had also expressed support for the One China policy after all  —   something Mr. Trump had said he would do only in return for concessions. The Times story was rewritten accordingly, capturing the news. But Mr. Trump does not accept the chronology  —   at least not publicly. Hillary Clinton has been slow to emerge after her November defeat. But there she was on social media Thursday night, praising the unanimous decision by a   panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to uphold a nationwide restraining order against Mr. Trump’s travel ban for seven   countries. To which Kellyanne Conway, the Trump     House adviser, had a reply. Winning is everything. First came the video of Representative Mike Coffman of Colorado sneaking out a back door to avoid the angry crowd gathered for his town hall meeting  —   but his suburban Denver district is swingy. Then Representative Tom McClintock of California had to flee under guard as constituents in Roseville demanded to know why he was so bent on repealing the Affordable Care Act. But hey, it’s California  —   even though his turf outside Sacramento isn’t exactly Berkeley. But Utah? On Wednesday, it was Representative Jason Chaffetz’s turn  —   in the reddest of states, in the Salt Lake City suburb Cottonwood Heights. It’s getting ugly out there.