LOS ANGELES  —   Alex R. Hibbert eyed a group of six children whipping red and yellow balls at one another in a large, reverberant pit made with trampoline floors and walls. He wanted in. But one player needed to get nailed by a ball and knocked out of the game first. He stood in line, his feet fidgeting, before bailing. He ran over to a nearby trampoline, pulled up his hoodie, crouched down and launched himself first upward and then backward into a flip. “You bend your feet, keep your hands all the way and jump as high as you want,” he said. “You get maximum air. Once you hit the air then you flip. But you don’t want to do too much because you might do a double flip. ” Alex is the    actor who plays Chiron (also knows as “Little”) in “Moonlight,” the    film about growing up in a   area of Miami as a character in the process of understanding his sexuality. The film has received eight Academy Award nominations, including best picture. In real life, he lives in Miami, where he is a   student, but he was recently in Los Angeles for a busy weekend of award shows (he attended both the Producers Guild Awards and the Screen Actors Guild awards) and auditions. So he would have a proper tux to wear to the SAG awards, he also had to stand still for a suit fitting. That’s a lot for an energetic kid. A few hours at the Sky Zone trampoline park in the Van Nuys neighborhood was his   play time. “I’m open,” he yelled, his arms spread wide. A ball came straight at his head and he ducked. Then he grabbed it and hurled it at the opposite side of the dodgeball pit, which now had him alone against three boys. He came to the tables, out of breath but happy. “It’s a battlefield out there,” he told his mother, Donna Wellington. “But I’m coming out on top. ” He grabbed for a cherry Icee she was holding for him and took a big gulp. Ms. Wellington snagged it. “Don’t drink all of that,” she said to her son. “You’ll get a stomachache. ” He made a face, then set the drink down. He has gotten a lot of attention because of his ability to make faces. “Moonlight” opens with a scene focused on Alex, but it’s not until about 10 minutes into it that he actually has a line. Critics and moviegoers have been taken by Alex’s performance, most of it delivered without any words, in which he communicates the adolescent angst of a young boy growing up in an environment where his sexuality is not understood. “Mahershala taught me a lot of tips about facials,” he said of his   Mahershala Ali, whom he calls his second father. “He was all like, ‘Just think about the moment that is going on. ’” Alex didn’t grow up as an   kid looking for a big break. He was living a typical life when stardom found him. He was born in New York City, and lived in Queens until 2011, when his mother decided to move with him to live closer to her own mother. (Alex has one sister, Robin, 22, from his father’s side, who lives in New York with their father.) He goes to a performing arts magnet middle school in Miami Gardens, Fla. loves science class (even though he said school was “mostly boring,” he knows it will help him succeed in his life’s ambition of curing cancer) and is expected to help out at home by doing the dishes and taking out the trash. But in March 2016, Alex’s drama teacher, Tanisha Cidel (she played the role of the principal in the film) suggested to him that he audition for “Moonlight. ” He assumed it was a school production. “I didn’t know it was going to be that big,” he said. “I thought it was going to be like a play or something. ” It was Alex’s grandmother, Hillary Frye, who took him to the “Moonlight” audition. She is now his unofficial publicist. “Every day since the film came she buys a New York Times paper at the   and looks for Alex’s picture in it,” Ms. Wellington said. “She’s going crazy, she tells everyone at work, ‘That’s my grandson! ’” His mother is trying to adapt to the new normal of having a son who suddenly is invited to award shows and auditions. So long as the hoopla doesn’t interfere with school, Ms. Wellington is accommodating. On Monday, it was back to their normal routine. “Nothing changed,” said his mother, who works at a nursing facility. “When I travel back and forth, I go right back to work. And Alex goes back to school. ” But he had a few days of glamour before he returned to real life, and some time before the media crush to just be a little kid. After dominating the trampoline, the foam pit, air hockey and the dodgeball court, he had by now moved on to the basketball   game. Before his mother could even make her way over, he had racked up 41 points. “I beat the record,” he hollered to her. He sidestepped to the adjacent machine where he tossed the ball some more, to the tune of 43 points. In celebration, he dabbed. He wasn’t done, though. He was ready for more dodgeball. It was 8 p. m. and his mother wasn’t. “Alex, I’m tired,” said Ms. Wellington, who had just accompanied her son to London, where Alex accepted an award on behalf of Mr. Ali. “Mom, one more game,” he pleaded. She gave him a    —   apparently a talent for nonverbal communication is a family trait. “O. K.,” he said, “I guess it is time to go. ” Anyway, he will need his sleep, given the magnitude of his dreams. There is the whole   thing. He would also like to have an acting career like Denzel Washington, to do action movies like Andrew Garfield and get cast on a popular TV series. “I want to be on ‘The Walking Dead,’” he said. “I need to talk to my managers about that. ”