WASHINGTON  —   Despite sharp differences on immigration, refugees, trade and climate change, President Trump and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada struck a cordial tone on Monday in their first meeting, alternating between attempting to bridge those gaps and steering clear of them. Mr. Trump has called for a halt to the admission of refugees, saying that terrorists might slip into the United States among them, while Mr. Trudeau has held out Canada as a haven for refugees, particularly people who have fled the war in Syria, publicly hugging newly arrived families. When asked at a White House news conference whether he now sees the northern American border with Canada as insecure, Mr. Trump skirted the question, speaking instead of his administration’s efforts to deport criminals from the United States. In the same vein, Mr. Trudeau declined to say whether he agreed with the president’s executive order restricting immigration. “The last thing Canadians expect is for me to come down and lecture another country on how they choose to govern themselves,” he said. Maintaining the country’s close political and economic links with the United States was top of the Canadian leader’s agenda before his visit to Washington. Mr. Trudeau had forged an unusually close relationship with former President Barack Obama, but many of Mr. Trump’s policies, particularly his protectionist stance on trade and his call for renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement, are chilling for Canadians. They count on trade with the United States for about 25 percent of their country’s gross domestic product. “It is a real concern for many Canadians because we know that our economy is very dependent on our bonds with the United States,” said Mr. Trudeau, who has expressed a cautious openness to renegotiating the trade pact. Mr. Trump’s complaints about trade have focused primarily on Mexico, another partner in the North American agreement, and China, which he has accused of taking advantage of the United States. He did not answer a question about whether he sees Canada as a fair trader, but suggested that he does not foresee deep changes in that relationship, which he called “outstanding. ” “We’ll be tweaking it,” he said. “It’s a much less severe situation than what’s taking place on the southern border. ” He said the two leaders had spoken privately about “doing some   things that will make it a lot easier for trade and a lot better and a lot faster. ” They issued a joint statement pledging to continue border security programs that began under Mr. Obama, and reaffirming their commitment to NATO, an alliance that Mr. Trump had previously questioned. In presentation and speech, Mr. Trump, a bombastic Republican, and Mr. Trudeau, a more   Liberal who is 25 years younger, are poles apart. But the prime minister has carefully avoided direct criticism of Mr. Trump and his policies. After the American election, he reorganized his cabinet to better deal with the change of power in Washington and swiftly sent emissaries to meet with Mr. Trump’s advisers. The meeting was the first test of the Canadian leader’s effort to foster a good working relationship. Mr. Trump greeted Mr. Trudeau warmly, a reception similar to the president’s greeting last week to Shinzo Abe, Japan’s prime minister. The leaders shook hands heartily when Mr. Trudeau arrived at the White House, patting each other on the shoulder with their free hands. Mr. Trudeau appears determined to maintain friendly relations with Mr. Trump despite their differences, while signaling to Canadians who are wary of their powerful neighbor that Canada still charts its own course. “We continue our policy of openness to immigration and refugees without compromising security,” the prime minister said. “There have been times where we have differed in our approaches, and that’s always been done firmly and respectfully. ” Mr. Trudeau presented the president with a framed photograph taken in the 1980s, showing Mr. Trump speaking at the head of a table of people including Pierre Elliott Trudeau, a former Liberal prime minister of Canada and the current prime minister’s father. The cabinet ministers who traveled with Mr. Trudeau on Monday had prepared for meetings with their American counterparts by emphasizing the importance of the   relationship to Canadians. Chrystia Freeland, Canada’s foreign minister, had reminded Trump administration officials that trade between the countries is roughly in balance, and that Canada is the largest buyer of American exports from 35 states. “The combination of Canada being smaller and the United States being bigger and the relationship largely being   means a lot of Americans don’t spend a lot of time thinking about Canada,” Ms. Freeland said in a recent interview. “Americans are not always fully aware of the economic significance of the relationship. ” Canadian business leaders expressed some relief after their prime minister’s meeting with Mr. Trump. “On the whole, this was a good day,” said John Manley, the president and chief executive of the Business Council of Canada, which represents 150 large Canadian corporations. “There’s still lots of things to be anxious about, but I think the tone and the substance were all very positive. ” Some of those anxieties stem from uncertainty over what small changes to the United   trade relationship could mean for some sectors of the economy. There had been concerns after Mr. Trump’s election that he might go after the Canadian auto industry, a major employer in Ontario, which exports most of its production to the United States. Flavio Volpe, the president of the Auto Parts Manufacturers’ Association, a trade group, said that it was important for his members to hear Mr. Trump’s message that he is not planning to dramatically remake the United States’ trade relationship to Canada. The two leaders also met on Monday with several women who are chief executives of companies from both countries to announce that Canada and the United States would set up a   council to advance women into executive roles, and to encourage entrepreneurship.