WASHINGTON  —   On Monday, Michael T. Flynn resigned as President Trump’s national security adviser after admitting he had misled Vice President Mike Pence about his phone calls with a Russian diplomat. In his resignation letter, Mr. Flynn “sincerely apologized” to Mr. Pence and Mr. Trump, blaming the fast pace of events for what he called his “incomplete” account. Mr. Flynn has a   history with Russia, but there is still much about the case that is not clear. ■ In December 2015, Mr. Flynn, then retired from the Army, attended a  dinner to celebrate the 10th anniversary of RT, a Russian     news channel that disseminates Russian views on global affairs. He sat at a table with President Vladimir V. Putin, spoke beforehand and subsequently appeared on RT as a commentator. ■ Mr. Flynn had multiple conversations with Russia’s ambassador to the United States, Sergey I. Kislyak, before and after Mr. Trump’s November victory. He spoke to the envoy after President Barack Obama announced new sanctions against Russia to punish it for interfering in the American election. Mr. Putin did not retaliate for the sanctions, which surprised Obama administration officials but drew praise from Mr. Trump on Twitter: “I always knew he was very smart!” ■ Mr. Flynn and other Trump officials, including Mr. Pence and Sean Spicer, the press secretary, denied that Mr. Flynn had raised sanctions in the phone call with Mr. Kislyak. Mr. Spicer said the call had focused on the logistics of a planned phone call between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin after the inauguration. Mr. Flynn later backed away from that assertion, saying his memory might have been faulty. In his resignation letter, he said he had “inadvertently” misled Mr. Pence. ■ The Justice Department told the White House about the contents of Mr. Flynn’s conversation with Mr. Kislyak, which had been recorded by a government wiretap. ■ The F. B. I. interviewed Mr. Flynn just days after he took office. Shortly thereafter, the acting attorney general, Sally Q. Yates, warned that Mr. Flynn was susceptible to blackmail by the Russians because he had misled Mr. Pence and other officials. Mr. Trump fired Ms. Yates in an unrelated incident after she said the Justice Department would not defend his executive order on immigration. ■ It is not clear whether Mr. Flynn’s conversations with the Russian ambassador were directed by, or carried out with the knowledge of, the   or any of his other senior advisers, including the chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon. It is also not clear why the White House did not act earlier on the information given to it by the Justice Department. ■ The precise nature of the conversation between Mr. Flynn and Mr. Kislyak has not been made public. Did Mr. Flynn explicitly reassure the Russian government that the incoming administration would ease sanctions? Did he urge the Russians to hold off on imposing retaliatory measures? ■ How did Mr. Flynn’s dealings with the Russians affect American policy toward Russia? As a candidate, Mr. Trump called for warmer relations between the United States and Russia  —   a message echoed by Mr. Flynn, who said it could be a partner in the fight against the Islamic State. Yet two weeks ago, the ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley, declared that the United States would not lift sanctions on Russia until it withdrew from Crimea and stopped destabilizing Ukraine. ■ What is the status of the F. B. I. investigation of Mr. Flynn’s phone calls? Did he break any laws in his conversations with Mr. Kislyak? What did he tell F. B. I. investigators? Has Mr. Flynn hired his own lawyer? And what will he do now?