Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the  .) With thousands of people fleeing areas downstream from Lake Oroville amid warnings of catastrophic danger, my editor thought it would be a good idea for me to do the opposite. So early Monday, I drove from my   home to Oroville, about 80 miles north in the Sierra Nevada foothills. Along Route 70, Northern California’s extreme wet winter was evident in every direction. It was reflected in the flooded orchards, the bursting Yuba River and the Sierra’s snowy peaks. Relentless runoff from the mountains had caused Lake Oroville to flow over its emergency spillway for the first time ever on Saturday. A day later, state officials noticed a hole forming in the spillway and prepared for the worst, ordering nearly 190, 000 people to seek safer ground. In Oroville on Monday, just a handful of businesses were open. Among them was Mike’s Grande Burger which gave out free meals to the truck drivers, emergency personnel and others working at the hobbled spillway. Some residents who had stayed behind gathered on a hill above Oroville Dam and watched the scene below. The reservoir, California’s second largest, was perfectly still and surrounded by   hills. In the distance, the   Feather River snaked along the valley floor. Locals recalled flooding events of the past  —   one in 1997, when thousands of people were forced to flee, and another in 2006. Some wondered whether state officials had done enough to shore up the Oroville reservoir before the latest round of trouble. Others talked about untamable nature. With more storms approaching, officials are effectively now in a race against time to lower the level of the lake and reinforce the hobbled spillway. Whether it will be enough is by no means certain. Read more in my article with Jess Bidgood here. More on the Oroville crisis from around the web: • People of good will stepped up to help those forced to flee. [Opinion | Sacramento Bee] • The crisis highlighted the need for repairs to other California dams. [East Bay Times] • The nightmare scenario that officials are fighting to prevent. [Los Angeles Times] • President Trump promised to fix infrastructure. He can start with crumbling dams. [Opinion | The New York Times] (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • Inside the black bloc movement that is rising up against President Trump. [Los Angeles Times] • Los Angeles’s mayor wants to lower the city’s temperature. Scientists are figuring out how to do it. [Los Angeles Times] • That California teacher shortage? It’s already a crisis. [Opinion | San Diego  ] • There is a growing worry that the quietude of the southern San Andreas fault is unlikely to last. [Washington Post] • If milk comes from an almond, can you still call it milk? [The New York Times] • Playboy, based in Beverly Hills, will resume showing naked women. [The New York Times] • Bobby Freeman died at 76 in Daly City. His 1950s hit “Do You Want to Dance” was covered by a range of artists including the Beach Boys and Bette Midler. [The New York Times] • It’s not just about Adele and Beyoncé, our critic writes. The Grammys consistently celebrate   white acts. [The New York Times] • Photo: For a short time every February, Yosemite’s Horsetail Fall lights up like fire at sunset. [Twitter | U. S. Department of Interior] There are comic book stores, mystery book stores and even culinary book stores. But until last year, the United States had few, if any, romance novel stores. And this despite the genre’s enormous popularity. To the sisters Leah and Bea Koch, that sounded like an opportunity. They opened their    shop, The Ripped Bodice, in Culver City last March. With Valentine’s Day upon us, it seemed a good moment to check in. We caught up with Leah Koch via telephone. Some excerpts: • Is it true that romance novels get short shrift? • What’s popular right now? • What advice would you give men as they’re thinking about Valentine’s Day with their partners? California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.