Egyptian President Abdel Fattah  ’s recent visit to the White House was of paramount importance to combatting radical Islamic terrorism. [As evidenced by the recent Palm Sunday church bombings by radical Islamists, Egypt finds itself on the front lines in the battle against Islamic radicalism, and more specifically, the Muslim Brotherhood.  It was Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood that started an Islamic revolution in 2011, which created a domino effect, extending into Syria and across the globe. The Syrian Muslim Brotherhood, empowered by the revolution in Egypt, rose to establish an Islamic order in Syria, attempting to eliminate Assad, as their counterpart did to Mubarak in Egypt. Assad’s loyal ally Russia came to his defense, while our shameful government under President Barack Obama threw Mubarak under the bus. After President Obama disgracefully endorsed Mohamed Morsi, the MB leader during the Egyptian uprising of 2011, he went even further to destroying an ally in the fight against Islamic extremism when he blocked billions in aid to Egypt after   rightfully deposed Morsi in 2014. Time and time again, our former President stood shoulder to shoulder with Islamic radicals and threw our allies who stood with us in our fight against terrorism under the bus. Today, President Donald Trump must make it clear to foreign leaders that there is a new sheriff in town, and we will not tolerate those who engage in, or support, Islamic terrorism.   understands the nature of the Muslim Brotherhood, and the threat it poses to both Egypt and the United States. It was the Muslim Brotherhood that assassinated Anwar Sadat, the former Egyptian president who signed a peace treaty with Israel. They killed him in cold blood because he was a peacemaker. Osama Bin Laden,   ringleader Muhammad Atta, the head of   Ayman   Zawahiri, and Islamic State head Abu Bakr   were all members of the Brotherhood. The two most powerful countries in the Middle East  —   Egypt and Saudi Arabia  —   have designated the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist organization. Egypt is the largest Islamic country in the Middle East, with 80 million Muslim, and the most powerful Arabic army. Saudi Arabia is the most revered Islamic country in the world, not only because of its religious significance, being the home of Islamic Prophet Mohammed, but also because it is a global oil player. They both understand the existential threat the Brotherhood pose. Yet disgracefully, our government still has not designated this organization as the terrorist entity that it is. A refusal to designate the MB as a terrorist organization leaves us fighting the war on terror with not only an arm tied behind our backs, but blindfolded. This would be like trying to combat fascism in the 1930’s without naming the Nazis as a target. How frustrating it must be for allies in the middle east like   whose country has been plagued by the Brotherhood for almost a century, to see such reluctance on the part of the United States to properly identify our enemies. It is critical for both restoring relations with those willing to fight this enemy with us, that we stop wasting time, and call a spade a spade. There is simply too much at stake with the Brotherhood running wild. What makes the Brotherhood particularly dangerous is that, in addition to being the most influential Islamic terrorist organization, it is also the most educated. Bin Laden was an engineer, and   a Surgeon,   is a Doctor of Philosophy. So we are not dealing with your average rent a jihadist when it comes to the Brotherhood. In 1982, the Brotherhood wrote a   plan for radical Islam to infiltrate and dominate the West, and establish an Islamic government on the earth. In   circles, it became known as “The Project. ” This outlines in crystal clarity, Brotherhood intentions to destroy America from within. They endeavor to do this by infiltrating the media, government, and educational system. The Brotherhood have already established successful front groups within the U. S, posing as moderate Islamic advocacy groups, such as CAIR and ISNA. This has allowed them access to our elected officials such as President Obama and his cabinet. Consequently, they have influenced public policies that left us vulnerable. Now is the time to reverse the damage done under Obama’s administration. The enemy is no longer at our doorstep, but in our house. We must heed the guidance of President   Sisi and other middle eastern allies, and designate the Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist organization once and for all. Every day that passes without such a designation, the tentacles of Islamic terror wrap tighter around us. President Trump, the time is now. For the sake of our country, and protection of Western civilization, please designate this organization as the mothership of jihad that it is. Brigitte Gabriel is a terrorism analyst and a two times New York Times   author of “Because They Hate” and “They Must Be Stopped”. She is the Founder and Chairman of ACT for America, the nation’s largest grassroots organization devoted to promoting national security and defeating terrorism.