NORTH ARLINGTON, N. J.  —   College roller hockey teams from across the Northeast, including Pennsylvania State University, competed at an indoor arena here recently, shooting, skating and stickhandling with gusto as they battled to climb the standings and win for their teammates and for school pride. But one team, the Maccabees of Yeshiva University, was playing for something loftier  —   religious devotion and the quest to bring glory to Orthodox Jews. “When we go out there, wearing Yeshiva across our chest, it reflects not just on our school but on our whole religion,” Avi Margulies, 22, one of the team’s founders, said after the team improved its record to  . In their second season, the Maccabees, named for a band of ancient Jewish freedom fighters, are doing their faith proud and bringing athletic acclaim to this college in northern Manhattan better known for training religiously devout students than turning out powerhouse sports teams. This unlikely band of Orthodox Jewish students is tearing up the Eastern Collegiate Roller Hockey Association, against teams with few or no Jewish players and more resources. The   squad was founded last season with little fanfare or financial assistance from the university. The players spend most of their time immersed in intense studies of the Talmud and the Torah, but Sundays are for hockey. Because of Sabbath restrictions, they cannot play the usual Friday and Saturday games scheduled by the league. Instead, they must play multiple games Sunday mornings, starting as early as 7 a. m. and playing up to four games, sometimes back to back against fresher teams. On a recent Sunday morning at the New Jersey rink, the Maccabees’ fans far outnumbered  —   and stood out  —   from those rooting for the other teams. The men wore skullcaps and the women dressed in prim dark skirts. Joe Klein, part of a group of classmates at the rink, said the team’s credo was “Play hard to pray hard” and likened the team to a biblical David bringing down Goliaths. “They live for the fact that they’re going to be the underdogs,” said Akiva Blumenthal, another Yeshiva student. After all, most of the teams at the rink hailed from large universities like Penn State and the University of Delaware, with   hockey programs that receive money from their schools and are unencumbered by religious strictures. The Yeshiva team showed up at the rink before 7 a. m. and squeezed into a cramped locker room. Putting on a uniform included pulling a helmet over a yarmulke and strapping padding over a white, tasseled religious shawl, known as a tallit. They had already finished a lengthy prayer session and were facing a grueling three games. Last season, they played in Division 4, which is for newer teams. They lost one game all season and won the league championship, earning them the right to play this season in the more competitive Division 2 league against teams like Boston University and Northeastern. Still, they are currently in first place and are a favorite to win the league championships in March in Pennsylvania. The Maccabees will most likely qualify for the national championship in Florida in April, said William Bourque, the commissioner of the Eastern Collegiate Roller Hockey Association, and their performance there could enable them to move to the top division, whose teams have bigger budgets that include team buses and plane travel to games. Mr. Bourque said he was impressed by the team’s quick success, especially since new teams typically struggle to achieve a winning record. “It’s very rare that a team comes in and becomes a top team right away,” he said. “They’re probably the   team out there. They probably don’t have the most talented players, but they have the best teamwork. They want it more than anyone else. ” The game is essentially played on an ice hockey rink with a hard surface. Body checking is forbidden but play is still scrappy, with plenty of contact. Players use a hard plastic puck and wear   skates and padding. Maccabee players and supporters regard the team’s unlikely accomplishment as something of a miracle. “Growing up as an Orthodox kid, you can’t play in the roller hockey leagues because they don’t cater to the orthodox lifestyle,” said Amir Gavarin, who also helped start the team and is the captain. “So you wonder if you can play with the gentiles. We’re trying to prove to the community that we can hang with them. ” The team is largely an outgrowth of the avid floor hockey scene in orthodox high schools in and around New York City. Some top players who ended up attending Yeshiva University were recruited by Mr. Margulies and Mr. Gavarin. Many of the players, including one of the goalies, Joseph Robin, had to develop skating skills. Two of the team’s stars, Avi Edell and Ari Drazin, grew up in Canada playing ice hockey and had to learn how to play on wheels instead of blades. Being a club rather than a varsity sport means the team is not eligible for athletic department funding, school officials said. Still, the team is hoping to persuade the school to provide some financing, Mr. Gavarin said. The players had to raise money to buy uniforms and equipment, pay league fees, cover travel expenses and even to hire a coach, Ely Gemara. League officials warned the Yeshiva players that holding games on Sunday mornings could mean having to play before sunrise. “We told them, ‘Guys, it’s going to be really, really hard,’ but they’ve taken everything in stride,” Mr. Bourque said. Because of the players’ rigorous study schedules, it has been tough to schedule practices, and rental fees are steep at rinks on Long Island and in New Jersey. They also practice at an outdoor public rink on First Avenue in Manhattan. This season, the team had to skip preseason games because they fell during the High Holy Days in October. Players said their travel logistics could be as challenging as their opponents. While other teams show up in team vans, the Maccabees scramble to assemble car pools. With kosher and Sabbath restrictions, even hotel stays are tricky. Team members often stay with orthodox families, sometimes sleeping on attic floors or in cold garages. There was also the necessity of packing their own kosher food  —   which usually meant cold meals  —   and fitting morning, afternoon and evening prayer sessions between car trips to games across the Northeast. The toll of travel hit the team at its very first game, in Rhode Island. After praying in a cold, dark parking lot, the team seemed in a daze as their opponents scored 15 seconds into the game. The Maccabees, however, woke up and rallied to a lopsided   victory. By season’s end, several of the players won league honors, but could not attend a Friday night banquet. Instead, league officials presented the awards the following Sunday in a locker room. There have been awkward moments. Last season, at a rink on Long Island, the opposing team could not conceal its surprise after walking into a locker room to find the Maccabees in   prayer together in Hebrew. “You should have seen the shock on their faces,” Mr. Gavarin said. Some   fans travel hours to road games. At the rink in New Jersey, they were crestfallen when the team blew a   lead against Stony Brook University, and lost   in overtime. But they revived when the Maccabees beat Delaware University and trounced Penn State in a game that featured Mr. Drazin and Jesse Gordon combining on a dazzling Maccabees goal. The two players initially met while studying the Talmud in Israel before playing together. Now they make up the team’s first offensive line. Mr. Gavarin acquired his love for the game from his father, Barry Gavarin, who began playing a primitive form of hockey at his own yeshiva in the 1960s, first kicking the puck on an outdoor makeshift ice rink and then buying sticks and skates with his classmates as a break from religious study. The younger Mr. Gavarin said he and his teammates considered being both devout Jews and ferocious competitors a way to encourage other young observant Jews to break out of the often “insulated” world of Orthodox Jewish life. “We’re opening up a whole new viewpoint and worldview for Orthodox kids,’’ Mr. Gavarin said, “because they can see that if you work hard enough you can play with anybody. ”