Health care and health insurance are different things.  They are related but different products.  Conflating the two was destined to create one failed product  —   Obamacare. [On the evening of September 9, 2009, President Obama presented his namesake health plan to a joint session of Congress. He correctly identified the amount spent on underlying health costs (i. e. hospitals, physicians, labs and drugs) as the reason for skyrocketing insurance premiums, stating: “We spend one and a half times more per person on health care than any other country, but we aren’t any healthier for it.  This is one of the reasons that insurance premiums have gone up three times faster than wages. ”  However, the plan he put forth ignored this fundamental problem and merely addressed health insurance reform, the question of how those skyrocketing health costs were to be financed.  The net result is our nation still spends “one and a half times more per person on health care than any other nation” while the World Health Organization currently ranks us 31st in life expectancy  —   behind Chile and Costa Rica. An important impediment to the   sustainability of Obamacare was its inability to create and market an insurance product that healthy people (especially young adults) both understood and wanted to buy without relying on tax credits or other government financial assistance.  The Obama administration constantly touts the 22 million Americans that now have insurance because of Obamacare.  However, the overwhelming majority of these 22 million Obamacare enrollees are: None of the above groups of buyers are participating because they see the product, absent government subsidy or dictat, as a rational choice.  Their choice to enroll was based upon either subsidy (wealth transfer) or government elimination of alternatives.  Consequently, Obamacare has primarily become more of an insurance entitlement rather than an affordable, appealing product people want to buy because it helps address their healthcare needs.  And like most other products dependent on financial assistance to convince people to buy, Obamacare has failed to sustain itself   without significant ongoing government financial support. So why aren’t healthy Americans buying Obamacare healthcare insurance?  Put simply, from the consumers’ perspective, the costs and benefits to buying Obamacare healthcare insurance don’t make sense.  This may be a wise decision or an imprudent decision, but this is the decision that most healthy Americans that don’t qualify for tax subsidies or Medicare have made. Furthermore, in the process of pushing a failed insurance product that consumers don’t want to buy, Obamacare has destroyed both the healthcare service and the healthcare insurance markets for the other 300 million Americans, and thereby created significant financial demands on the US economy. The debate thus far has been obscured by the various parties putting forth specific policies, when a first step should be to agree upon principles.  Given the subject matter, policies are necessarily complex, but the policy complexities mask the serious differences in the underlying principles driving each policy idea.  We should demand our representatives first clearly articulate, debate and find   agreement on the principles upon which the new replacement policies will be built, then move on to the complex business of implementing those principles in policy. Going forward, to achieve a sustainable policy that will not require disruptive wealth transfers, elimination of choice, perverse incentives or erosion of care, the new replacement policies for both health insurance and access to quality affordable healthcare should be developed only after establishing a clear set of core free market driven principles  —    and not haphazardly slapping together   policy prescriptions without core principles which is the genesis of Obamacare. Obamacare was not the answer. It failed both on a political level, dividing our country because it was passed as a loyalty test on a   vote of a mysterious package no one understood, but also on a rational test at the consumer level. What is needed first is   agreement on the guiding principles, and then implementing policies for each of the two related but independent markets and products (healthcare service and healthcare insurance) resulting in rational   choices that Americans want to buy and that providers are willing to sell at a reasonable profit in a competitive marketplace.  Products based on common sense and easily understandable benefits and incentives for all parties. A program that forces people facing tough budget choices to purchase a product they don’t want or face horrendous penalties is a coercive train wreck in the making. When we foster a free market in healthcare services with real, legitimate published prices, everyone in our society will benefit from increased access to affordable care, especially low income families. The time has come for Oblimination  —   the   dismantling of Obamacare and replacing it with a system based on free market principles that actually work. Big Government, Obamacare, oblimination