An   police sergeant in Missouri has filed a discrimination lawsuit against his employer, alleging that he was told he would not be promoted unless he toned down his “gayness. ” The sergeant in the St. Louis County Police Department, Keith Wildhaber, said that over the years his performance reviews have said he “exceeds standards” or is “superior” in all categories. But in 2014, the suit says, after Sgt. Wildhaber became one of nine top candidates eligible to move up to lieutenant, he and another officer, who had disciplinary and performance issues, were the only ones denied promotion. That same year, the lawsuit says, the sergeant was told by John Saracino, a member of the St. Louis County Board of Police Commissioners, which supervises the department, that the command staff “has a problem with your sexuality. ” “If you ever want to see a white shirt (i. e. get a promotion) you should tone down your gayness,” Mr. Saracino said, according to the suit. Mr. Saracino could not be reached by telephone on Friday. But he told The St. Louis   which reported on the suit: “I never had a conversation like that. I would never say anything like that. That’s not me. ” The lawsuit, filed on Jan. 10 in Circuit Court, names St. Louis County as a defendant and seeks compensation, back pay, promotion and other damages. Sgt. Wildhaber was hired by the Police Department as a security officer in 1994 after he served for four years in the Army, according to the lawsuit. He attended the Police Academy, became a patrolman in 1997 and rose through the ranks. He became a detective in 2006 and a sergeant in 2011, the lawsuit says. He was given a Medal of Valor for saving a man trapped in a burning car in a commuter parking lot in November 1998, when he was still a rookie, according the St. Louis  . Last April, Sgt. Wildhaber filed a discrimination complaint with the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the Missouri Commission on Human Rights, alleging employment discrimination based on his sex or gender, the lawsuit says. A month later, he was transferred to a different precinct and put on night shift. The suit says St. Louis County believes that Sgt. Wildhaber “does not fit the stereotypical norms of what a ‘male’ should be” and it has “failed to take any action to investigate or take corrective action” in response to his multiple complaints. Sgt. Wildhaber could not be reached by telephone or email on Friday, but his lawyer, Russell C. Riggan, said in an email, “Until the case goes before a jury, we will allow the petition to speak for itself. ” A spokeswoman for St. Louis County, Allison Blood, referred questions to a Police Department spokesman, Sgt. Shawn McGuire. He did not immediately reply to a voice mail message on Friday.