Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • The Trump administration detailed plans to deport millions of immigrants, releasing expansive new rules that allow rapid deportations and the expulsion of undocumented immigrants who have committed even minor offenses. Here’s how deportation works. The shift in enforcement faces resistance from many states and dozens of   sanctuary cities. The new rules will be high on the agenda as Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and the head of Homeland Security, John Kelly, visit Mexico this week. _____ • Mr. Trump spoke out for the first time about a rising trend of incidents and threats targeting Jews and Jewish institutions, saying that   is “horrible,” and “painful. ” He commented during a visit to the National Museum of African American History and Culture, calling the venue “a meaningful reminder of why we have to fight bigotry, intolerance and hatred in all of its very ugly forms. ” A riot in an immigrant neighborhood in Sweden came two days after Mr. Trump baffled that country with claims  —   based on a Fox News feature  —   that it had seen a surge in crime and violence linked to refugees. _____ • China’s suspension of coal imports from North Korea is seen as punishment for the North’s weapons programs, but it may also add pressure on the U. S. to hold talks with the country. A North Korean government delegation has plans to meet in New York in early March with former U. S. officials involved in North Korea policy. Beijing also voiced its opposition to patrols by a U. S. aircraft carrier strike group in the South China Sea. _____ • The bodies of 74 migrants washed up on the coast of Libya, an ominous opening of the high season for sea crossings to Europe. “If they are starting strong like this, it means we could see a lot of deaths this year,” an aid official said. _____ • And an   panda, Bao Bao, boarded a     flight to China, which retains rights to cubs born of its loaned pandas. The    whose parents and brother remain at the National Zoo in Washington, will join a panda breeding program in Chengdu when she matures in a few years. _____ • There were 2, 473 billionaires in 2015, 6. 4 percent more than a year earlier. Nine of the top 10 are from the U. S. How the   got their money and what they do with it are matters of global importance. • Yahoo and Verizon slashed $350 million from the price that Verizon would pay to buy Yahoo’s core internet businesses. Yahoo expects the deal, now valued at $4. 48 billion, to close by the end of June. • Chinese companies outbid competitors to win 12 percent of Abu Dhabi’s largest oil concession. • Tesla reports   earnings. Investors will be watching for news from its chief executive, Elon Musk, about the forthcoming Model 3, a small car crucial to the company’s goal of producing 500, 000 electric vehicles in 2018. • January figures come out for residential sales prices in major Chinese cities, and Hong Kong releases its 2016 G. D. P. • U. S. markets hit fresh records. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced an Israeli pivot toward Asia, speaking at a state dinner in Singapore ahead of today’s visit to Australia. He travels to China next month and hosts Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India this summer. [Jerusalem Post] • The pilot of a plane that crashed into a Melbourne shopping center, killing himself and four passengers, was under investigation for a “near collision” with another plane in 2015. [Sydney Morning Herald] • China’s internet users have flocked to a viral video of a fierce scuffle between two groups of takeout deliverymen, which shows how intense the field’s turf wars can be. [Caixin] • Milo Yiannopoulos, who has been testing the limits of provocative language in the U. S. lost a book contract, a conservative platform and his job after the publication of a video in which he condones sexual relations with boys as young as 13. [The New York Times] • In 16 months, an   team that constitutes Europe’s front line against fake news has debunked 2, 500 stories, many with links to Russia. [The New York Times] • A zoo in Japan that specializes in native macaques, or snow monkeys, held a memorial for 57 monkeys euthanized after they were found to be crossbreeds with a feral exotic species. [The Asahi Shimbun] • “Porcelain bumping” is a common swindle in China: pedestrians faking injuries to extort motorists. But in an age of   cameras, it’s getting a lot harder to pull off. [The New York Times] • Is your morning granola actually healthy? The public and nutritionists seem to disagree. • Meet Sweet Marie, the most colorful figure in Brooklyn’s Food Riots of 1917. • Recipe of the day: Meyer lemons take sautéed chicken to a new level. • Cosmos Controversy: Scientists are debating just how well we know the cosmos after new measurements of faraway galaxies turned up discrepancies in the value of the Hubble constant, a gauge of the expansion of the universe. (Our science writer makes this comprehensible.) • The death of Andy Warhol, long ascribed to routine gallbladder surgery, was far more complicated, according to a new account by a medical historian. • Deep in Brazil’s Amazon lies the town of Fordlândia, founded in 1928 by Henry Ford and now a crumbling testament to the folly of trying to bend the jungle to the will of man. When the sun rises over Abu Simbel in Egypt this morning, rays of light will reach a temple’s dark inner sanctum and shine on statues of gods and of Pharaoh Ramses II, who commissioned the temple’s construction. That phenomenon, which must have struck the pharaoh’s subjects with awe, occurs only twice each year. According to legend, the temple was designed that way to honor the days of the ancient ruler’s coronation and his birthday with sunlight. But if the legend’s true, then the light has been arriving a day late for several decades. In the 1960s, the    temple was moved inland to save it from rising water levels caused by the Aswan Dam. More than a thousand blocks of stone were meticulously cut and transported to its current location. “We didn’t lose a single baboon,” an engineer working on the project told The Times then. He was referring to the scores of carved baboons at the temple’s entrance, which are shown barking at the rising sun. The move pushed back, by a day, the arrival of sunlight to the inner sanctum. It now happens on Feb. 22 and Oct. 22. The mummy of Ramses II has also narrowly avoided obliteration in recent decades. In 1974, it was flown to Paris where scientists attempted to slow its deterioration. Egypt issued the mummy a passport on that occasion, its profession listed as: “King (deceased). ” Patrick Boehler contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.  What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.