When it comes to taking lecture notes, Laura Gayle, a sophomore at Florida State University, has her methods. A smiley face connotes an important person. If the professor says, “Make sure you know this,” she uses an asterisk. A triangular button signals a video clip played in class. Later, she will organize the notes, write a video summary and check uncertainties against the textbook or with the professor. For “Introduction to Classical Mythology,” she’ll even alphabetize a list of Greek gods and goddesses. Then, a few days before the exam, she puts it all up for sale. Since last fall, when she uploaded her macroeconomics notes onto Flashnotes. com to pay for a birthday gift for her mother, Ms. Gayle has sold more than 500 copies of the study guides that she’s put together for her courses, made over $3, 285 and tapped into a growing, if controversial, online marketplace. In describing her approach, Ms. Gayle, a human resources major with a 3. 8   average, sounds aggressive in the best way. “I sit in the front row center for every single class, whether I am selling notes or not,” she says. “For me it is a matter of paying attention, being   and,” if something is unclear, “taking the initiative to go out and find the answer. ” Her study guides are rated five stars by users. While borrowing, bartering and selling class notes is nothing new, the online market is just getting organized.   sites matching note sellers and buyers have come and gone in recent years as students who started them graduate. NerdyNotes at Stony Brook University is surviving the graduation of a founder, but bigger players are arriving. Flashnotes started up last fall on five campuses  —   Kent State, Ohio State, Florida State, Rutgers and University of Maryland  —   with 30, 000 registered users. There are now about 100, 000 at 100 campuses, and the company just bought   a Florida State  . The sites let student sellers set prices for notes (average is $9) but take a cut. Flashnotes gets 30 percent NerdyNotes takes 50. The marketplace has annoyed some professors, who bar their students from buying or selling notes. In 2010, California State University banned students on its 23 campuses from using NoteUtopia. com (since bought by Flashnotes) citing a   state education code prohibiting the selling of class notes for commercial purposes. Some argue that lectures are professors’ intellectual property, including notes recording their ideas others warn that notes are a student’s interpretation of a class. Some say that selling them promotes laziness by enticing students to skip lectures. Still others encourage it. “I want them to use any resource they can to do well on my tests,” says Lora Holcombe, an economics professor at Florida State. “It’s not like with the notes you sleep on them and they’ll go into your head. You have to do some heavy studying. ” Michael Matousek, who graduated from Kent State in 2010, dreamed up Flashnotes during a statistics class in his senior year. He had switched majors twice so was taking a required class that covered topics he had previously studied. Students found the professor confusing, but Mr. Matousek “knew how they were confused. ” After classmates repeatedly sought his help, he compiled and sold his notes to a friend. Soon others wanted copies, so Mr. Matousek collected $10 for each emailed copy, netting more than $1, 000 for the semester. The experience showed him the power of peer education  —   and not necessarily led by brainiacs. “The 4. 0 kids, they can’t explain,” he says. “The 3. 5, the 3. 6 kids understand what it takes to learn something. ” Mr. Matousek graduated with a 3. 67 G. P. A. and now heads a staff of 22 at Flashnotes headquarters in Faneuil Hall in Boston. The demand is not surprising. “Students are notoriously poor ” says Kenneth Kiewra, professor of educational psychology at the University of Nebraska, Lincoln. They tend to record only a third of the important lecture points. What makes notes great? “Completeness,” Dr. Kiewra says. Research shows that having detailed, comprehensive notes raises test performance. In his   1985 study, published in Human Learning, Dr. Kiewra randomly assigned 100 students to one of seven groups.   hours after a lecture, the groups had 25 minutes to review before a test. Each group was assigned a learning method: Take your own notes and review (1) your notes, (2) your notes as well as instructor notes, (3) without any notes. Don’t take notes but review (1) instructor notes, (2) without any notes. Skip the lecture but review (1) instructor notes, (2) without any notes. Groups that reviewed instructor notes performed best. “It didn’t matter so much what you did during the lecture,” Dr. Kiewra explains. “It mattered what notes you had. ” Even those who didn’t attend the lecture but reviewed instructor notes did better than those who attended and “reviewed their own crummy notes. ” He concludes: “The real value of   is not so much in the taking as in the having. ” Getting down details along with main points is easier said than done. Average lecture speed is 100 to 125 words a minute, but college students listening to a lecture write 22 words a minute by hand they type just 33 words a minute. In his latest research Dr. Kiewra has found that when the professor pauses three times to let students catch up and fill in missing information, they have more “original, additional and total notes” than those who waited to revise immediately after a lecture. If a student fails to note a particular point, Dr. Kiewra says, there is only a 5 percent chance of recalling it later. Videotaped lectures help. When students viewed a video twice, they recorded 53 percent of the details, up from 38 percent, Dr. Kiewra says. Watching three times raised it to 60 percent. Memory is a weak tool, but thinking about the information  —   paraphrasing rather than writing everything verbatim  —   improves retention, according to a series of studies at Princeton, published last April in Psychological Science. Students who took notes by hand rather than laptop wrote less but performed better. Laptop users tended to merely transcribe a lecture “rather than processing and reframing it in their own words” they scored strikingly lower on conceptual tests. Alexandra E. Hadley, a Boston College junior who has posted 29 different offerings on Flashnotes in the last year, uses paper for small discussion classes and a laptop for lectures. An English and communications major, she says she thinks hard about points the professor stresses. “I try to be very present in all of my classes,” she says. “That is key  —   focusing on what I am doing. ” That means considering points as you take notes and connecting new ideas with information from earlier lectures. “I was taking notes in my research methods class and we were talking about pop culture,” she says. “We touched on two theories, but it reminded me of another one, so I threw that in my notes. ” Umar Zaidi, a Stony Brook senior from Queens   in political science and sociology, prefers to grab a seat near a power outlet and tap away. “When you are typing you can look at your professor,” he says. He reads over the syllabus before class, “so when the professor mentions something that rings a bell, I type it up. ” While typing he organizes material into sections with main ideas, bullet points and asterisks. Mr. Zaidi uploaded a semester’s worth of lecture notes for “Urban Politics,” an   course, when NerdyNotes started up last spring. Sales, at $10 a packet, were slow at first. (Biology notes are the most in demand on campus.) Classmates didn’t take notes, he says, because they thought political science was a breeze  —   until the midterm. After, he netted $150. “If they’re too lazy to make notes,” he says, “then I’ll make notes and take advantage. ” But Mr. Zaidi won’t sell the study guides he makes for himself. One doesn’t want to make it too easy for classmates. Indeed, some campuses are not good   territory because students don’t want to help competitors. In other words, at Flashnotes, Mr. Matousek says, “we’re not putting a huge emphasis on Harvard. ”