(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. President Trump issued new guidelines to rescind   protections for transgender students, overruling his education secretary, who had pushed to keep them in place. The issue caused a cabinet rift between Betsy DeVos, the education secretary, and Jeff Sessions, the attorney general. Mr. Sessions was adamant that the administration move quickly to reverse an order from the Obama administration that allowed transgender students to use the restroom of their gender identity. Ms. DeVos, faced with the choice of resigning or defying the president, dropped her objections, according to insiders. _____ 2. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is en route to Mexico, accompanied by John Kelly, the secretary of Homeland Security, for talks with Mexican officials on trade, security, aid and migration. The meetings are not expected to be pleasant, as Mexico reels from the announcement, a day earlier, of Mr. Trump’s tough new immigration policies. Today’s episode of our podcast, The Daily, focuses on the new immigration policies. Listen from a computer, on an iOS device or on an Android device. _____ 3. Most of the activists protesting the Dakota Access oil pipeline left their longtime encampment under orders from the state. Some lit fires as they departed. A handful remained and there were several arrests by nightfall. The protesters had been camped out near the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation in North Dakota for months, calling for a halt to construction of the nearly completed pipeline. They say it will imperil the water supply. Construction resumed this month with Mr. Trump’s backing, and barring court intervention, oil could be flowing through the pipeline by this spring. _____ 4. We unearthed a lawsuit that reveals an A. T. F. operation that existed on a murky frontier  —   between investigating smuggling and being complicit in it. Records and interviews show that agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms who were fighting cigarette smuggling filled a secret bank account with millions from their own    operation  —   which revolved around cigarette sales. Tobacco farmers who say they were swindled out of $24 million filed a lawsuit that has been kept nearly entirely sealed for years. _____ 5. The U. S. commander for the Middle East said more American troops would speed the campaign against the Islamic State in Syria. In recent weeks, the Iraqi government recaptured the eastern part of Mosul, a major victory against the Islamic State in Iraq. A New York Times reporter describes a city torn in half. Military figures carry a great deal of weight in the Trump administration, with veterans in the top three security jobs, all from a generation of leaders from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. _____ 6. The Supreme Court ruled for the defendant in a Texas death penalty case because of testimony laced with “a particularly noxious strain of racial prejudice. ” The court required a new sentencing for the defendant, Duane Buck, who was convicted of the murder of a former girlfriend and one of her friends. The testimony came from a psychologist who said black defendants were more dangerous than white ones. _____ 7. The president of Iceland ignited an international debate with a joke about pineapple on pizza. Gudni Thorlacius Johannesson, above right, was visiting a high school when he joked that the topping should be outlawed. Internet outrage ensued, and it reached such proportions that the president issued a statement on Facebook. He wrote that he was glad he did not have the power to make such a law, adding that for pizzas, he recommends seafood. _____ 8. We’re continuing our   of the best of   comedy. The comics are taking on the usual suspects, like the pope, the royal family and our president. Here’s one from James Corden: “I bet it’s hard to play golf with Trump, because every time he misses a putt, Kellyanne Conway comes out and explains that he actually won that hole. ” And our brave tech writer embarked on a daring experiment: ignoring news about the president for a week, which was harder than it sounds. “Even when I found   news, much of it was interleaved with Trump news, so the overall effect was something like trying to bite into a    cake without getting any fruit or nuts,” he wrote. _____ 9. It’s London Fashion Week, and our critic says the runways are all about “the kicky, fearless exuberance of youth,” in keeping with the city’s reputation among designers. While New York has sheer numbers, Paris has high art and Milan has big business, London is known for ingenuity. “I think youth culture starts here,” Donatella Versace said. “British people have more courage than the others. ” _____ 10. Finally, scientists announced a remarkable discovery: a dwarf star that has not one but seven   planets that could potentially harbor life. “I think that we have made a crucial step toward finding if there is life out there,” an astronomer said. _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.