SEOUL, South Korea  —   Some female college students received emails a few years ago that sounded like a phishing scam, offering a     opportunity for free travel and a spot on South Korea’s Olympic women’s hockey team. The offers were sincere. Officials in South Korea had apparently scoured online rosters for North American college hockey programs, looking for women with last names that looked as if they might be Korean. They were on a shopping spree to assemble Olympic hockey teams from scratch for the 2018 Winter Games. As the host of the next Olympics, next February in Pyeongchang, South Korea has automatic berths in the men’s and women’s ice hockey competitions, which are premier events at any Winter Games. But hockey here is an afterthought, so the country had to get creative if it wanted to field teams that would not be humiliated. “I never dreamed this would happen,” said Danelle Im, who was born in Toronto to Korean parents and was attending Wilfrid Laurier University in Ontario in 2012 when she received the curious email. She is now a forward on South Korea’s national team. Countries commonly take advantage of loose citizenship rules to import   talent in all sports. South Korea’s hockey project is among the more aggressive and novel examples. For the men’s team, they recruited several North Americans playing on one of the three South   teams in the Asia League. They offered naturalization to a handful of players from the United States and Canada  —   none of whom have any Korean ancestry. Mike Testwuide, a Colorado native, was approached by the national team coach, Jim Paek, a   Stanley Cup champion with the Pittsburgh Penguins, during his second season with Anyang Halla of the Asia League. On a men’s squad that includes players with a wide range of abilities, Testwuide, a strapping    center out of Colorado College, offers the big, physical presence in short supply here. The prospect of joining the Olympic fraternity thrilled the    Testwuide. But it took him a week to agree to become the first men’s hockey player to become a dual citizen of the United States and the Republic of Korea. That was how long he needed to gauge his comfort level with two prospects: Could he hold his right hand over his heart during the playing of a national anthem that was not “The   Banner” and not feel like an impostor  —   or a traitor? And how would one of the world’s most homogeneous cultures react to a towering,   forward representing them on the world stage? “There’s a lot of negativity out there,” Testwuide said. “In the U. S. it was like, ‘Why would you want to play for another country? ’” He added, “And in Korea it’s like, ‘Why are we bringing you guys in? ’” The naturalization process took roughly a month, Testwuide said, and included memorizing the Korean national anthem. It took considerably longer for him to feel comfortable in his dual role as hockey ringer and proselytizer of puck. “You want to be as Korean as possible, but in your head you’re kind of fighting it and you’re questioning whether you’re doing the right thing,” Testwuide said, adding, “It’s a big responsibility, and it’s a ton of added pressure. ” Tyler Brickler, a Chicago native whose mother is from South Korea, is in the process of acquiring his citizenship. Brickler, 26, was invited to a national training camp in South Korea during his senior year at SUNY Geneseo and signed out of college with the Asia League, his interest whetted by the possibility of an Olympic berth. “It is a very weird situation for me, for sure,” Brickler said before a home game in February in the northern Seoul suburb of Goyang. “Playing in North America, I was sometimes considered the Asian player on the team, but when I came out here I’m considered the American. ” He added, “I might not look it fully or speak it, but no one can take away the fact that I have Korean blood from my mother. ” Marissa Brandt, who played at Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minn. will be a defenseman on the women’s team, whose roster is about 20 percent North American. She was born in South Korea and adopted by an American family. “When I was in the States, I didn’t want to be Korean, I wanted to be like everyone else,” she said. In the summer of 2015, she traveled to Korea for the first time since her adoption to attend a hockey camp and was transformed. “It was definitely an ” said Brandt, who now wears her Korean name, Yoon Jung Park, on her jersey. “Coming back, I am Korean. ” When Pyeongchang won the bid to host the 2018 Winter Games in 2011, South Korea had 1, 880 registered ice hockey players, according to statistics kept by the International Ice Hockey Federation. The United States in the same period had more than 500, 000. The defenseman Donku Lee, a   member who plays with Testwuide on Anyang Halla, was blunt in his assessment of the challenge facing the South Koreans in Pyeongchang. “The other teams will be fighting with tanks and the Koreans will be using wooden sticks,” Lee said. There has been marked progress. The women’s team recently beat Thailand,   in the Asian Winter Games and lost,   to Japan  —   a respectable result after losing its previous six meetings to Japan by a combined score of   according to local news reports. And at the Division I Group A World Championships last year, the men scored their first victory against Japan, a   shutout. The sport still operates largely in a vacuum in a country that is crazy for speed skating and figure skating. At a coffee house two blocks from Anyang Halla’s rink, a longtime resident, huddled at a table with two friends, looked up from his hot drink with a confused expression when asked about the local hockey team. What hockey team? he asked. “There’s a lot of people in Korea who aren’t as educated about the game they don’t really know what we’re up against,” said Testwuide, who signed an   contract with the Philadelphia Flyers and played for the Adirondack Phantoms and Abbotsford Heat of the American Hockey League before moving to Korea. “They think, ‘We brought you guys in here so we can compete with Canada,’ and that’s where it’s hard. I could barely make an N. H. L. lineup. The reality of it is one of Team Canada’s player salaries is probably the entire budget we have for players’ salaries and everything for the Olympic run. ” The Korea Ice Hockey Association has a   $20 million plan to accelerate the development of its men’s and women’s national teams. The imports, as the North American men are commonly called, feel an urgency to make the national team more competitive on the world stage. It is a challenge complicated by cultural mores as foreign as the Korean alphabet to the North Americans, who recognize that Koreans do not like to lose, especially by lopsided scores that could cause chemyeon, or loss of face. That’s a particular concern to the men’s team, which opens preliminary play against   defending champion Canada. “It’s such a young hockey country,” said Matt Dalton, the   goaltender who plays for Anyang Halla. “Anything they can put their hat on, they try to use it to further momentum. Like when we beat Japan once and people were like, ‘We’re better now.’ When I hear something like that, my first instinct is, ‘Guys, let’s not get too high here. ’” The Goyang Ice Rink, where Brickler’s High 1 team plays some of its home games, had fewer than 300 fans in the   arena before a recent game, held during the first major snowstorm of the winter. The crowd  —   and the noise  —   was bolstered by a group of 100 High 1   fans, mostly team employees who performed continuous card stunts. They tirelessly raised squares of colored paper to form messages like “We Will Win” while a man pounded on a drum. Across the ice, two women sat huddled against the cold, wearing    Canada mittens and tracking the movements of the   2018 Korean Olympic team member Mike Swift, who was centering High 1’s top line. The women were Swift’s mother and aunt, visiting from rural Ontario, Canada, where Swift was reared. Swift’s mother, Darlene, was asked when her son last played a competitive game in front of so few people. “I don’t think he ever has,” she said. Swift, 29, is a    center with a sting, quick to throw a check. His physical style of play has no translation in Korea, where hard hits remain a largely foreign concept. Even if the body is willing, Korean players said, the mind is inclined to think twice because of an   team hierarchy that frowns on a younger player checking an elder. The North Americans have heard stories of a Korean forced to pay a postgame visit to the opponents’ dressing room to apologize for a crushing hit delivered to an older player. The hits are less likely to come from hips than sticks, which are sometimes wielded like swords. Swift said his body had not taken a beating in the Asia League, but his face had. He smiled to reveal a few missing front teeth. Sarah Murray, the   women’s coach who won two national titles playing at the University of   said communication posed her biggest challenge. “Sometimes players look scared when I talk to them,” said Murray, whose father, Andy, coached in the N. H. L. “There’s so much I want to say to them, and I do want to have a very personal relationship with my players. Sometimes it’s hard to say with someone else saying it for you. ” Murray confronted one cultural barrier that was easier to surmount. When she first arrived in Korea, she was taken aback to see that her players did not know how to hop over the boards from the bench onto the ice. “They always used the door,” she said. “They were literally running into each other coming off and going on. ” For the men and the women, progress has come slowly, yet expectations will be lofty. “I love being an underdog,” Murray said. “That’s what I want at the Olympics. Nobody knows what to expect. I would love to shock people. ”