A judge ruled Friday that one additional woman who says Bill Cosby sexually assaulted her will be permitted to testify at his trial later this year on charges that he sexually assaulted a former Temple University staff member in 2004. Legal experts have said that the account of a second woman describing what she said was an act of sexual assault could strengthen the case against Mr. Cosby, 79, who has denied any misconduct. But the judge’s decision was far from a full victory for prosecutors in Montgomery County, Pa. who had sought to introduce testimony from 13 women who have accused Mr. Cosby of assaulting them. The prosecutors had told Judge Steven T. O’Neill of the Court of Common Pleas that the testimony of the group of women was important in showing a pattern of conduct by Mr. Cosby that bolstered the account of Andrea Constand, the former Temple employee. Judge O’Neill agreed to allow the testimony of the one woman, identified only as “Prior Alleged Victim Six,” in a   decision that briefly discussed his legal reasoning. The judge said that he had considered the evidence, the legal arguments and aimed for “a careful balancing of the probative value of the other acts evidence and the prejudice to the Defendant. ” While the judge’s decision was too brief to completely understand his reasoning, the account given by the woman is similar to that given by Ms. Constand, who says she was drugged and sexually assaulted at the entertainer’s home near Philadelphia. Two years ago, the new witness appeared at a news conference, alongside her lawyer, Gloria Allred, where she was identified only as Kacey and described working as an assistant to Mr. Cosby’s agent at the William Morris Agency in the 1990s. She and Mr. Cosby were friendly, she said, and once had dinner at his home where they both read from a script, their scene ending in a passionate kiss that made her uncomfortable. Then, she said, she went to lunch at his California hotel bungalow in 1996 where, she said, she passed out after he gave her a “large white pill,” and woke up in bed next to Mr. Cosby, who was naked beneath an open robe. “Once Prior Victim Number Six was incapacitated, defendant sexually assaulted her,” prosecutors said in court papers last year. The woman said at the news conference that she never pressed charges because she feared retaliation. Mr. Cosby has denied all the allegations of sexual assault and has described his encounter with Ms. Constand as consensual. His spokesman, Andrew Wyatt, declined to comment on the ruling. Mr. Cosby’s legal team is expected to challenge Ms. Constand’s credibility. Legal experts said the judge’s ruling made that job more difficult, but that the admittance of testimony from multiple women would have been significantly more damaging. “He has two people to challenge rather than just one in that sense, it’s a defeat,” said Dennis McAndrews, a Pennsylvania lawyer and former prosecutor. But, he added: “If five or more had been admitted, it would have been devastating for his case. It is easier to attack the testimony of two. ” Mr. Cosby’s lawyers had fought to block the women’s accounts, which had not been the subject of criminal complaints or adjudicated at trial, and which they disparaged as vague. “There has never been a shred of physical evidence to support such claims, they have never been reported to any authority and today their stories of ‘that night spent partying with a famous celebrity’ are based solely on the tainted, unreliable memories of women, now in their senior years, recalling alleged events from a single encounter from the 1960s, 1970s or 1980s,” his lawyers Brian J. McMonagle and Angela C. Agrusa said in court papers in October. Ordinarily, prosecutors cannot introduce evidence or accusations of prior bad behavior because it is viewed as too prejudicial for a jury as it considers the facts of the single case before it. But in Pennsylvania, as in other states, such evidence is permitted when it shows conduct so similar it can be argued that it demonstrates a common scheme or plan, a kind of unique signature of the defendant. Prosecutors characterized the accounts of the 13 women as being similar to Ms. Constand’s in that the women said Mr. Cosby had befriended or mentored them, gave them a pill or other intoxicant, and that when they awoke hours later, they said, they had been sexually abused. Kevin R. Steele, the Montgomery County District Attorney, on Friday described the judge’s ruling as important, saying, “The jury will now be allowed to assess evidence that is relevant to establishing a common plan, scheme and design of sexual abuse. ” For many of the women, testifying represented a final opportunity to confront Mr. Cosby legally. Most never came forward decades ago, when they say the episodes occurred, and have been unable to bring civil cases against Mr. Cosby because the statutes of limitation have expired. On Friday, Ms. Allred congratulated the 13, seven of whom were at least once her clients, saying, “Even though they will not be able to testify in this case, they have been very important in the effort to seek justice. ” For prosecutors, there is a risk in introducing prior bad acts as evidence. In one recent case where such evidence helped lead to a conviction, the decision was overturned by an appeals court that found the admission of the evidence had, in fact, prejudiced the jury. The case involved a senior official in the Roman Catholic Church in Philadelphia who had been convicted on charges related to failing to stop child sexual abuse by some priests. Isabelle A. Kirshner, a criminal defense lawyer in New York who is not involved in the case, said that by only allowing one of the women in, Judge O’Neill had reduced the chance that any verdict would be reversed on appeal. As for the Cosby team, she said, “I am sure that they are not happy another witness is coming in, but given that they wanted 13, this is a victory for him. ” In December, in another crucial decision, Judge O’Neill ruled that deposition testimony, given by Mr. Cosby in a separate 2005 lawsuit filed by Ms. Constand, could be admitted as evidence in the coming criminal trial. In the deposition, Mr. Cosby admitted to affairs and acknowledged obtaining quaaludes as part of his efforts to have sex with women. Mr. Cosby is seeking a change of venue for the trial, now set for Norristown, Pa. or for jurors to be brought in from another county, arguing that he has been harmed by negative publicity and   media coverage. A hearing on that motion is scheduled for Monday.