The editors of The Wellesley News, the student newspaper of Wellesley College threatened their peers who refuse to conform to the campus’ progressive orthodoxy, in a column that was published this week. [Students at the   Wellesley College, the alma mater of both Hillary Clinton and Madeline Albright, are threatening their peers who refuse to tow the progressive line in a recently published column in the student newspaper.  As a part of a wider conversation on hate speech on campus, the student editors of The Wellesley News penned a column ironically titled “Free Speech is Not Violated At Wellesley,” that claims that students who “refuse to adapt their beliefs” will be treated with hostility by their peers. This being said, if people are given the resources to learn and either continue to speak hate speech or refuse to adapt their beliefs, then hostility may be warranted. If people continue to support racist politicians or pay for speakers that prop up speech that will lead to the harm of others, then it is critical to take the appropriate measures to hold them accountable for their actions. The editors begin the column by registering their belief that free speech is not infringed upon at Wellesley College. This is followed by a passionate commitment to ending hate speech on campus. They eventually claim that they would prefer to educate their   peers rather than scold them. It is important to note that our preference for education over beration regards students who may have not been given the chance to learn. Rather, we are not referring to those who have already had the incentive to learn and should have taken the opportunities to do so. Paid professional lecturers and politicians are among those who should know better. The column quickly spread around social media. Many users expressed their concerns over the   of the student editors. Editors of @Wellesley newspaper write editorial openly threatening students who don’t conform to their values https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Claire Lehmann (@clairlemon) April 14, 2017,  @Wellesley_News So you’re for free speech. And forcing people to think as they’re told or be faced with hostility.  …     At most, one of those is true.  —   Bert Difig (@BertDifig1) April 16, 2017,  @foxnation @Wellesley And if we find their views offensive are we justified to use hostility? Idiots,  —   The Virus (@Slyrus3) April 16, 2017,  @Wellesley_News I’m a     progressive: Your editorial is Orwellian doublespeak for thought control. Awful.  —   Edward Lewine (@EdwardLewine) April 14, 2017,  @Wellesley_News You are the people Ray Bradbury warned us about.  —   Louis Schuh (@senschuh) April 14, 2017,  @Wellesley_News I am seriously sad for Progressives.  They’re insane in the membrane.  —   Sarah T. (@SarahT_in_Prov) April 14, 2017,  Tom Ciccotta is a libertarian who writes about economics and higher education for Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com