President Donald J. Trump signed an executive order to build the promised “border wall,” a controversial effort that will actually be segments of wall in needed areas along the U. S.  border. Many of the Mexican states bordering the U. S. are controlled by transnational criminal organizations (cartels) and the order specifically mentioned the problems the groups pose to U. S. security. [The January 25, 2017 executive order asserts, “Transnational criminal organizations operate sophisticated   and   networks and smuggling operations on both sides of the southern border, contributing to a significant increase in violent crime and United States deaths from dangerous drugs.  Among those who illegally enter are those who seek to harm Americans through acts of terror or criminal conduct.  Continued illegal immigration presents a clear and present danger to the interests of the United States. ”  The executive order continues, “(a)  secure the southern border of the United States through the immediate construction of a physical wall on the southern border, monitored and supported by adequate personnel so as to prevent illegal immigration, drug and human trafficking, and acts of terrorism” Yes, many Mexican border states are failed  . Though many politicians, journalists, and pundits have criticized the concept of a physical border barrier while others claimed the border to be safe, the aforementioned groups and individuals are simply ignorant on the topic or engaging in intentional deception. Breitbart Texas and the Cartel Chronicles effort has reported ad nauseum on Mexican cartels that have operational control over entire Mexican border states  —   including the governors’ offices and newsrooms. Our reporting has shown that U. S. law enforcement encounters with known or suspected terrorists has occurred frequently in remote areas along the U. S.  border. We’ve shown that there are humanitarian consequences associated with an unsecured border  —   not just for U. S. citizens, but for foreigners as well. Our reporting has shown that one of the Mexican cartels, Los Zetas, is currently stockpiling Russian   grenades and their launchers at the Texas border, that they recently forced down a U. S. helicopter by open firing on the aircraft and striking it. Los Zetas are headquartered in Nuevo Laredo, a city that sits immediately across the shallow and narrow Rio Grande from Laredo, Texas. There are no fences or walls in the region and the local police do not have a presence in many of the     that sit in Texas along the open border. This particular cartel also committed mass murders in communities near the Texas border in Mexico. They “disappeared” hundreds of civilians and burned them in a network of ovens that were operated in government facilities. Along with Los Zetas, the Gulf Cartel is also headquartered immediately south of the Texas border. The Mexican state of Tamaulipas is largely controlled by the two paramilitary groups. All of the news outlets in the region have a “link” who works for the cartel and tells journalists what they can and can’t write about. Journalists and editors who ignore the control of the local cartel faction are brutally murdered. Many concerned citizens in Mexico have taken to anonymous social media accounts to report on the cartels. When the    are discovered, they are brutally murdered. The cartels in this region have also set up metropolitan camera and surveillance systems across the cities they control. Two of the past three governors for the state are currently fugitives from U. S. justice for the roles and relationships with the cartels. One of the    was being protected by the state government as recently as a few months ago. Brandon Darby is managing director and    of Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter and Facebook.