WASHINGTON  —   Federal lawmakers excoriated international sports officials on Tuesday for what they called a bungled response to the Russian doping scandal, with delayed investigations, insufficient sanctions and a lack of interest in rooting out cheating that has tarnished the Olympic brand. During a   hearing called by a House subcommittee, Democrats and Republicans chastised representatives of the International Olympic Committee and the World   Agency, the regulator of drugs in sports. “What a broken system,” Representative Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said, asking why WADA  —   to which the United States is the largest national contributor  —   took years to act on the multiple   tips it had received from within Russia, pursuing investigations only after news media reports. “It’s been a quagmire,” Mr. Walden said, criticizing officials’ “indecisive and inconsistent” responses to revelations that some 1, 000 Russian athletes were implicated in   doping schemes. Representatives of WADA and the I. O. C. spoke little, weathering relentless criticism with few rebuttals. “At these sort of things, you’re always a little frustrated you can’t say more,” Richard Budgett, the I. O. C. ’s medical and scientific director, said as he prepared to depart. Rob Koehler, the deputy director general of WADA, defended the organization’s response to the scandal, pointing to the independent investigations it had ultimately commissioned, which amassed evidence of the vast scope of Russia’s cheating that the I. O. C. and others are continuing to review. WADA’s president, Craig Reedie, is a member of the I. O. C. until August, he was a top executive with that organization as well. “If you continue to have sport overseeing investigations, overseeing compliance, overseeing itself  —   it’s the fox guarding the henhouse,” Travis Tygart, the United States’ top antidoping official, told the subcommittee. Mr. Tygart invoked an array of global reforms that he and a coalition of other national antidoping organizations had proposed in August. Most of all, he advocated making the global antidoping regulator more independent of sports organizations, empowering it to be an aggressive policeman. The United States Olympic Committee, which is politicking to host the 2024 Summer Games, had argued against holding a hearing last year, when Mr. Tygart and antidoping authorities from more than a dozen other nations were pressuring the I. O. C. to ban Russia from the 2016 Games after learning the nation’s antidoping lab chief had tampered with scores of urine samples at the 2014 Sochi Olympics. Representative Tim Murphy  —   Republican of Pennsylvania and the chairman of the subcommittee on oversight and investigations, which called the hearing  —   said Tuesday that the inquiry was justified and that Congress’s concern went beyond its $2 million annual contribution to the global regulator. “It isn’t just the money the United States puts into this,” Mr. Murphy said. “If it takes money to motivate things, fine, but the real reason is: I want sports to be fair. ” He said he also considered doping a public health issue. Testifying alongside the sports and antidoping authorities were two American Olympic medalists, the swimmer Michael Phelps and the   Adam Nelson, who told personal anecdotes. Some lawmakers took photographs of the athletes before and after the charged discussion. Mr. Phelps, the world’s most decorated Olympian, said he did not believe that he had ever competed in a clean field, and he echoed Mr. Tygart’s calls for making the antidoping regulator more independent. Mr. Nelson  —   who inherited a gold medal roughly a decade after he had competed, once a reporter had informed him that a competitor had been disqualified for doping  —   said he wanted to ensure officials would not “sweep this under the rug. ” He was presented with his gold medal in the food court of an Atlanta airport, a fact numerous representatives seized on, arguing for a ceremony to honor the dozens of athletes who have retroactively won medals because of the rash of doping disqualifications over the last year. Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado, drew parallels between Tuesday’s proceeding and hearings called in the early 2000s by the same subcommittee regarding the Salt Lake Olympics corruption scandal, in which American officials had bribed I. O. C. members to win the right to host the 2002 Games. After reading excerpts from an I. O. C. letter on the Russian doping scandal released last week, Ms. DeGette said, “This is the same kind of gobbledygook we got from the I. O. C. then. ” In the letter, addressed to various sports organizations, the I. O. C. had sought to differentiate between calling Russia’s widespread cheating “ ” and “institutional,” a major point of contention for Russian sports officials who have emphasized that President Vladimir V. Putin and his inner circle were not involved in the coordinated cheating. “They’re looking at angels dancing on the head of a pin, and I don’t even know what they’re talking about,” Ms. DeGette said. “The international sports community needs to realize we’re dealing with Russia and the honor system is simply not going to be enough. ”