MEXICO CITY  —   An official working at the United States consulate in Guadalajara, the   city in Mexico, was shot and wounded on Friday evening by a young man who stalked him in the parking lot of a shopping mall and then fired as he drove out. The State Department official, who was not identified, was in stable condition after the shooting, a spokeswoman from the United States Embassy in Mexico City said on Saturday. Neither embassy officials nor the Mexican attorney general’s office commented on a possible motive. Guadalajara is the capital of Jalisco, the headquarters of the New Generation Jalisco cartel, an organized crime gang that has carried out violent attacks on the Mexican military and police over the past two years. But residents of the city have rarely been a focus of cartel violence. Security footage released by the consulate on its Facebook page shows the gunman, dressed in a loosefitting dark blue   and pants and wearing glasses, waiting on the sidewalk adjacent to the exit ramp of an underground parking lot in an upscale neighborhood. A white car pulls up to the barrier gate, waits for the arm to lift and drives off. Then, as the consular official’s black car pulls up, the gunman raises his arm, fires and runs away. In a separate video, taken a few minutes earlier, at 6:16 p. m. the consular official, wearing red shorts and with a gym bag slung over his shoulder, pays at the automated ticket machine and walks off, with the gunman following him. The F. B. I. said it was offering a $20, 000 reward to anybody who could provide information leading to the identification of the gunman. “The safety and security of our employees overseas is our highest priority,” the United States Embassy spokeswoman said. Eduardo Almaguer, the attorney general for Jalisco, told the local news media that the consular employee worked in the visa section of the consulate. State and federal authorities are working on the investigation. Employees of the United States Embassy and consulates in Mexico have been victims of drug violence in the past few years, though they have sometimes been targeted by mistake. That was the case in 2010 of a consulate employee in the border city of Ciudad Juárez, her husband and the husband of another employee who were killed. The white S. U. V. that the employee and her husband were driving in was mistaken for the vehicle of a gang leader whose killing was ordered by a rival. In 2011, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent was killed and another injured when they were ambushed by members of a drug gang hit squad on a highway. The next year, two C. I. A. employees were wounded when federal police officers fired at their armored car in an attack that has never been explained.