The media’s obsession with White House chief strategist Steve Bannon has reached peak creepiness in a Daily Beast article that includes a photoshop of Bannon’s face onto the image of Grateful Dead guitarist Bob Weir. [The Daily Beast article by Asawin Suebsaeng is titled “Steve Bannon in College: Grateful Dead Fan, ‘Jerry Brown Liberal,’ ‘Ladies Man. ’” Among the article’s shocking  —   shocking!  —   revelations about Bannon’s undergrad years is the claim that he was more liberal in his youth before he joined the Navy and became a Reagan conservative. Also, apparently the   like him. And he was allegedly a Deadhead and Springsteen fan.  From the Daily Beast’s article: Old friends, acquaintances, and roommates who spoke to The Daily Beast described Bannon in his Virginia Tech undergraduate days as a “Jerry Brown liberal” who was a devotee of rock artists and   such as the Grateful Dead and Bruce Springsteen. He was a    “history nerd,” an idiosyncratic football player, and a charismatic “ladies man,” say his college peers. He was a force in campus politics who would, with a large pot of coffee, regularly preside over huddles of student leaders and activists in his apartment meetings that he and his college chums jokingly dubbed “The Kitchen Cabinet. ” “I can remember one of [our] roommates saying, ‘Steve’s gonna end up in the White House one day,’” John DePaola, who lived with Bannon for a year, told The Daily Beast. “He was more intellectual than any of us. ” DePaola now lives in Virginia and works as a   engineer and consultant for   facilities. DePaola met and befriended Bannon at their alma mater in Blacksburg, Virginia, in the  . Like many of Bannon’s past friends and associates, he does not recall even a hint of any of the racism or   that Bannon is accused of today. DePaola does not like his friend’s nationalist,   politics, but “if [Steve] called me tomorrow and asked for me to help him do something, I would go do it immediately,” he says. Read the rest here. Here is the original image of the Grateful Dead: Here is the Daily Beast’s photoshop: