Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • The Trump administration faced new turmoil over new disclosures of contacts top aides had with Russian officials during the presidential campaign or prior to the inauguration. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the top U. S. law enforcement official, recused himself from any investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, while denying that his dicussions with a Russian official last year were related to the campaign. And the White House disclosed that the ousted national security adviser Michael Flynn and Jared Kushner, the president’s    and senior adviser, also met with the Russian ambassador in December. The outgoing Obama administration had scrambled to preserve intelligence about the Trump campaign’s possible contacts with Russia by spreading the information across the government. _____ • China’s biggest yearly political meetings, the “two sessions” of Parliament and party leaders, are set to begin in Beijing. Among the thousands of delegates are a number of billionaires, whose combined fortunes amount to  $500 billion, nearly the G. D. P. of Sweden. President Xi Jinping may be maneuvering to bend the party’s unwritten retirement rules to retain an ally  —   and create a precedent for himself. _____ • China is ratcheting up pressure on South Korea over its plans to deploy a U. S. missile defense system to protect itself from a   North. Meanwhile, there were new twists in the case of Kim   the half brother of the North’s leader. A North Korean diplomat, above, claimed he had actually died of heart failure, refused to acknowledge that the victim was Kim  ’s half brother and called on Malaysia to provide evidence for its account that he had been poisoned with the nerve agent VX. Malaysia condemned the use of a chemical weapon in a public place. Today’s episode of The Daily, our audio news report, discusses North Korea’s ruthless strategies. Listen from a computer, on an iOS device or on an Android device. _____ • A rights group says President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines should face prosecution for inciting killings in his bloody drug crackdown. A strong case could be made at the International Criminal Court “that crimes against humanity have been committed,” said the Australia director at Human Rights Watch. _____ • “We’re used to a little bit of heat. But this was at another level. ” That’s a climate change researcher in New South Wales, Australia, where heat waves and wildfires over the past two months have pushed temperatures as high as 113 degrees Fahrenheit. The researchers found record highs are now 50 times more likely than in the past. _____ • And in China, some say the proliferation of clones of famous foreign buildings has gone too far. By one reckoning, there are 10 White Houses, four Arcs de Triomphe, a couple of Great Sphinxes and at least one Eiffel Tower. The current debate was set off by a replica of London’s Tower Bridge in the eastern city of Suzhou, publicized as “even more magnificent than the real one. ” • Shares of Snap Inc. valued at $24 billion in its public offering, jumped 40 percent in the company’s first day of trading. • Wall Street has been on an upward trajectory since Election Day. Our columnist looks at what the Trump effect and booming markets mean for the global economy. • China and Hong Kong accounted for 87 percent of the counterfeit goods seized by the U. S. Customs and Border Protection in 2015, according to a report. • A U. S. judge ordered Harvard to reveal records related to a major donor, Charles C. Spackman, a South   Hong Kong businessman who leads a global investment holding company. • China’s solar power industry had a total output of $48. 8 billion in 2016, up 27 percent, and exported about $13. 8 billion worth of solar panels. • U. S. stocks were weaker. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Emperor Akihito is in Vietnam, making the first visit ever by a Japanese emperor. He met with the families left behind by former Japanese soldiers expelled years after World War II. [Associated Press] • The Islamic State released a video that purported to show Uighur fighters training in Iraq and vowing to return home and “shed blood like rivers,” possibly the terrorist group’s “first direct threat” against China. [Agence  ] • Tornadoes lashed the American Midwest, killing at least three people and leaving a trail of splintered homes, razed businesses and power failures. [The New York Times] • In India, a leader of the women’s wing of the governing party was arrested in a “baby trafficking racket. ” [Reuters] • The U. S. military conducted airstrikes on suspected Qaeda militants in Yemen, the first since an   commando raid in January. [The New York Times] • The Saudi king  prayed with President Joko Widodo of Indonesia at the Istiqlal Mosque in Jakarta, Southeast Asia’s largest mosque. [Jakarta Post] • Matt Lauer, the host of NBC’s Today Show, was revealed as the mystery buyer of a sprawling lakefront property in New Zealand. [TVNZ. com] • Two activists who call themselves “meatball sweethearts” are fighting fat shaming in Taiwan, where 45 percent of adults are classified as overweight. [BBC] • Did China buy better soccer? Play begins today in the Super League, packed with   international stars. [Reuters] • Feeling groggy? Here’s our guide to getting a better night’s sleep. • Recipe of the day: For a filling, meatless meal, a cabbage and potato gratin gets the job done with style. • In Bangkok, exorcisms are cheap and ghosts are woven into the fabric of daily life, writes the author Lawrence Osborne of his adoptive city. What’s more, he says, a foreigner is only   there, a “ghost” of a different kind. • New Orleans may be known for Mardi Gras, but Mobile, Ala. dates its Carnival celebration to 1703, 15 years before the Louisiana city was founded. Iceland endured a mock constitutional crisis last week after the president, Gudni Thorlacius Johannesson, jokingly told a class of high school students that he would like to ban pineapple pizza toppings. An uproar on social media ensued, Mr. Johannesson retracted his proposal. He wrote in a statement that “presidents should not have unlimited power,” adding that he “would not want to live in such a country. For pizzas, I recommend seafood. ” Unlike Mr. Johannesson, Saparmurat Niyazov, the Turkmenistan president who died in 2006, stood out as a head of state who used his office to impose his personal preferences on citizens. He renamed January after himself. April was renamed after his mother. Mr. Niyazov also banned circuses and video games. And he had a golden rotating  statue of himself installed in Ashgabat, the capital. His successor, Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov, relocated the statue and ordered his own built. Last month, he was   winning 98 percent of the vote. Patrick Boehler contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.  What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.