OKLAHOMA CITY (AP)  —   Kemba Walker scored 29 points to help Charlotte overcome Russell Westbrook’s sixth straight   to beat the Oklahoma City Thunder   on Sunday. [Westbrook finished with 40 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists. It was Westbrook’s 40th   of the season, putting him one behind Oscar Robertson’s NBA record of 41, set during the   season. It was Westbrook’s first career   against Charlotte.  Frank Kaminsky had 18 points and Michael   added 16 for Charlotte, which entered the day in 10th place in the East, two games behind Chicago, Indiana and Miami, who were tied for seventh. Walker went 6 of 12 from   range. It was the 14th time this season Walker hit five or more   in a game. Charlotte had 18 steals against Oklahoma City, the most in a   game for the Hornets since Nov. 23, 2012, against Atlanta. The Hornets scored 35 points off 24 Oklahoma City turnovers. Charlotte seized control with a   run to open the second half, as the Thunder missed their first seven shots after halftime, allowing the Hornets to build a   lead. Westbrook ended Oklahoma City’s scoring drought at the 6:24 mark and the Thunder closed within 12 points twice early in the fourth quarter, but former Thunder guard Jeremy Lamb scored nine points in a   run by Charlotte that made it   with 7:21 left. An   spurt by Oklahoma City, capped by a layup by Andre Roberson, got the Thunder within   with 4:37 left but a   play by Cody Zeller keyed Charlotte. Oklahoma City shot out to a   lead, but the Hornets used a   run to go up   early in the second quarter. The Thunder pulled within   but Charlotte answered with a   run to build a   lead before Westbrook almost   cut the gap to   by halftime.  : Hornets: Walker had four steals, moving him past 600 for his career. He’s the fourth Hornets player to reach that number, joining Muggsy Bogues, Gerald Wallace and Dell Curry.   …     Walker’s 229   this season are the   in a single season in Charlotte franchise history. Jason Richardson had 243 in  .   …     Charlotte, which entered the game averaging the fewest turnovers in the NBA (11. 5 per game) had 18 on Sunday.   …     Lamb scored 13 points against his former team. Thunder: Taj Gibson returned to the starting lineup after missing Friday’s game against San Antonio due to illness, but scored only four points in 13 minutes.   …     Westbrook has 77 career    —   fifth on the NBA’s   list, one behind Wilt Chamberlain.   …     To clinch a season   Westbrook needs 11 rebounds and 29 assists over the Thunder’s final six games.   …     Chicago is the only team against which Westbrook hasn’t recorded a   during his career. UP NEXT: Hornets: Will finish a   road trip at Washington on Tuesday before a potentially key home game on Wednesday against Miami. Thunder: Will host Milwaukee on Tuesday to wrap up a   homestand.