KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia  —   The Malaysian Foreign Ministry said Friday that it was “greatly concerned” by the use of a banned chemical weapon in a public place to assassinate Kim   the half brother of North Korea’s leader, and has asked for international help in responding to the episode. “The ministry strongly condemns the use of such a chemical weapon by anyone, anywhere and under any circumstances,” the ministry said in a statement. “Its use at a public place could have endangered the general public. ” Malaysia has reported the use of the toxic chemical, VX nerve agent, to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which monitors chemical weapons banned under international conventions. The organization must now decide whether to bring the matter of the chemical’s illegal use before the United Nations Security Council. Analysis of chemical residue on Mr. Kim found it to be VX nerve agent. South Korea has blamed the North for the killing. The Malaysian police have identified seven North Korean men who remain wanted for questioning in the case. If there is compelling evidence that North Korea used the substance, the United States and its allies can push for a resolution against the North at the Security Council and for new sanctions. Washington can also place the North back on its   blacklist. But North Korea has already been under heavy sanctions for decades, and analysts say that new steps against the North will have a largely symbolic effect of “naming and shaming. ” Such a move could further dampen what is an already weak desire to start dialogue with the North to address its growing nuclear and missile threats, they said. Malaysia reported the incident to the O. P. C. W. soon after the discovery that the poison was VX nerve agent, and since then the organization has been providing Malaysia with assistance in its investigation of the killing. “The ministry is in close contact with the O. P. C. W. regarding the recent incident and the latter has provided the Malaysian authority with some technical materials that have been requested to assist in its investigation,” the ministry said. Mr. Kim, the elder brother of North Korean leader Kim   was killed on Feb. 13 at Kuala Lumpur International Airport by two foreign women who smeared his face with poison, the police say. The two women, one from Indonesia and one from Vietnam, have been charged with murder. North Korea, which has not been allowed to examine Mr. Kim’s body, asserts that he died of heart failure. North Korean officials contend that it is absurd for Malaysia to say that VX nerve agent was used since it is so toxic that many others at the airport also would have died. After Malaysia reported the use of the chemical, representatives of the O. P. C. W. came to Kuala Lumpur to provide assistance, one official said. “The government of Malaysia will fully cooperate with the O. P. C. W. and other international organizations to bring the perpetrators to justice,” the ministry said. The Malaysian authorities on Friday released Ri   the only North Korean detained in the killing so far, and handed him over to immigration officials for deportation. The police also issued an arrest warrant for Kim   37, a North Korean who works for Air Koryo, the national airline. The authorities have said that they believed Mr. Kim was at the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur along with another suspect, Hyon   an embassy employee.