President Donald Trump announced a new executive order to promote his America First agenda, ordering the federal government to implement his buy American, and hire American policies. [“With this action, we’re sending a powerful signal to the world and we’re going to defend our workers, protect our jobs, and finally put America first,” he said during a speech he delivered after touring   Tools in Kenosha, Wisconsin.  Trump ordered the federal government to promote and use   products and hire American workers, signing the document at the event.  —   @realDonaldTrump shows off his Buy American, Hire American executive order before signing it at   tools pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) April 18, 2017,  “No longer are we going to allow foreign countries to cheat our producers and our workers out of federal contracts,” he said. He also called for   Visa reform, asserting that the current lottery system was “wrong,” and should be focused on only allowing in immigrants with the “most skilled and highest paid applicants. ” “No one can compete with American workers when they are given a fair and level playing field, which has not happened for decades,” he said. Trump vowed trade reform with Mexico and Canada, promising to make big changes to NAFTA or get rid of it altogether. “NAFTA has been a disaster for the United States,” he said. “A complete and total disaster. ” He specifically called for changes to the trade policy with Canada on dairy products, referring to the dairy industry in Wisconsin. Trump also vowed to use every legal tool in his administration to cut federal regulations that were hurting business and killing jobs. “In fact, when it comes to   regulations, we’re going to use a tool you all know very well. It’s called the sledgehammer,” he said with a grin. Trump thanked Governor Scott Walker for joining him at the event together with Wisconsin Senator Ron Johnson. Walker presented Trump with a personalized NBA Wisconsin Bucks jersey and a parody of his campaign hat. Since the @Bucks are in the #NBAPlayoffs tonight, we made a special hat to give to the @POTUS. #MAGA pic. twitter.   —   Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) April 18, 2017,  Speaker Paul Ryan was not at the event, even though it was his district, as he was meeting with NATO representatives in Europe. “He has a good excuse,” Trump said. “Paul, you’re over with NATO get them to pay their bills. ” Trump was also joined by his Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, a Wisconsin native, Secretary of the Treasury Steve Mnuchin, and Education Secretary Betsy Devos. His advisers Steve Bannon and Kellyanne Conway also traveled with the president to the event. 