Duane “Dog” and Beth Chapman from the reality TV shows Dog the Bounty Hunter and Dog and Beth: On the Hunt were guests in the Breitbart News Daily studios on Tuesday, talking about how the justice system had been under attack during the Obama administration and how they believe it is on the mend in the era of Donald Trump. [STRANAHAN: When you’re talking about this bail reform movement, what it means, and of course stop me if I’m wrong and tell me if I’m exaggerating  —   but it means in some cases criminals are being brought in and put right back on the street. BETH: Within minutes. DOG: Within minutes. BETH: Literally the police officers are still inside doing paperwork when the perpetrator is basically let out the door. DOG: Alleged perpetrator. BETH: Mmmmm, okay, alleged. STRANAHAN: And so when we’re talking about the dismantlement of law and order under Obama, this is what I’m talking about. BETH: Yeah. There’s no teeth, law enforcement’s hands are basically tied. I think they’re far more reluctant to even arrest anybody because it takes them, like I said, more time to do the paperwork then it does to bring them down. But the bigger issue is there’s no accountability and there’s no deterrent, there’s no repercussion, there’s no one looking for these people when they fail to appear. Basically, they’re going to be clogging up the docket so bad there’ll be no efficiency whatsoever in our court systems. Christie went out and he duped his entire state basically and said, “This is only gonna cost a couple of million dollars. ” The cost is so expensive now, it’s over $22 million. Most of the counties can’t even afford to implement this policy, and they’ve got small business people dying on the vine there and it’s counterproductive to the economy. STRANAHAN: And how is letting those criminals back out on the streets working out for the poor? DOG: Well of course the poor will be poor, but they’re stealing trying to get money. BETH: But they’re releasing them back into the poor communities. They’re not releasing them into our communities. So in reality he’s   the very people that he claims to be helping. One topic discussed was the   “Parole Reform Movement,” which they say was bankrolled by billionaire institutional left funder George Soros, as well as leading libertarian funders the Koch Brothers. The ideologically driven approach to belittle justice has resulted in a revolving door for criminals, said the two bail enforcement agents.  BETH: The Koch Brothers, the Arnold Foundation, The Manhattan Project, the Innocence Project, you know there’s a lot of groups donating quite a bit of money into these things. Harvard donated $1 million, which is very disturbing to me  —   a school of high learning and you think that they would understand that, again, people aren’t in jail because they’re poor. And basically the most unnerving thing about this whole thing, that we have taken away the voice of the victims. The victims absolutely have no voice  —   and they have no protection. They think that these guys are gonna go to jail and they’re gonna stay in jail, and they’re safe at least for the night  —   but not in New Jersey. DOG: And we’re not talking about graffiti or urinating in public  —   none of that. We’re talking about first degree burglary, domestic violence, rape of an intoxicated person. BETH:  —   giving a gun to a known gang member  …     As an example of this ideological influence, take Katharine Huffman, Board Chair of the bail reform movement group Justice Policy Institute, whose biography says: Ms. Huffman began her legal career as a   litigator and Soros Justice Fellow at the Southern Center for Human Rights in Atlanta, Georgia. Dog and Beth had harsh words for former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie: BETH: Christie’s been awful. He has drank the   obviously. But, he’s destroying New Jersey. And not that New Jersey was   to begin with, but now it’s so overrun with crime that you got police chiefs coming out, lieutenants coming out, you got Facebook popping up New Jersey’s bail reform failures. There are so many people so concerned. There was a police chief that basically came out and told his citizens, “I can’t keep you safe. I have to let these guys go by mandate. ” And you get Christie on the line about it, or you get him on any type of a radio show or whatever, and he tries to blame the bail bondsman and say, “They’ve been picking on the poor  …    ” If they’re poor, then how could they afford the bail bondsman to begin with? On the other hand, they had high praise for Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke, who was recently a speaker at the closing day of CPAC. Dog and Beth both appreciate Clarke’s approach to law and order, which they see as in line with the Trump presidency. MARLOW: So let’s get into your connection with Sheriff Clarke. You’ve been a big advocate for him, he’s considering a Senate bid, talk to us about that. DOG: Sheriff Clarke is strong law and order. A very fair man. He’s been the Sheriff of Milwaukee for many years, and we love him. And when you get that way, you go to one mountain and you get to the top, there’s another mountain to climb. So he’s the toughest Sheriff, he’s strong law and order. He needs not just to be in one state we need him nationally. Breitbart News recently recorded exclusive video interviews with Dog and Beth that will be the centerpiece of several stories related to the Bail Reform Movement by Breitbart lead investigative reporter Lee Stranahan. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. 