State Senator Jean Fuller ( . 16) is urging Californians to honor   veterans by voting in California’s June 7 primary. [The primary comes one day after the 72nd anniversary of the Allied landing at Normandy.  Writing at Bakersfield. com, Fuller said: As Thomas Jefferson said, “Eternal vigilance is the price we pay for liberty. ” Almost two hundred years later, this statement still rings true because democracy is not guaranteed. It has to be created, defended when necessary, and continuously cultivated. Every American enjoys the rights and freedoms this great nation provides because of the sacrifices made by those defending democracy. We should honor those sacrifices by holding in high regard our freedoms, including our right to vote. Fuller went on to talk about the “fight against tyranny” —  a fight soldiers carry out on the battlefield and which citizens carry out at the voting booth. She spoke of her father’s service, her grandfather’s service, and the service of many of her uncles, then explained that Californians who vote exercise freedoms that were purchased at great cost. She wrote: Preserving our liberty has come at a heavy cost and in some instances taken far too long. Just over a half century ago, Jim Crow laws ruled the voting process in the South and just under a century ago women were finally granted the right to vote. Countless service members have made the ultimate sacrifice to protect our families and our freedoms. Today, courageous active duty soldiers, Marines, airmen and sailors stand ready to defend us, including those stationed at Marine Corps Base at Twentynine Palms, China Lake Naval Base, and Edwards Air Force Base. We should always remember their commitment to our freedom, whether in commemorating their sacrifice or in exercising the rights they fight for. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.