TEL AVIV  —   The U. S. should expect more attacks like the terrorist massacre at the Orlando gay nightclub, according to Abu Bakr   an Islamic State fighter who recently returned to the Gaza Strip after being wounded in Mosul, Iraq. [Maqdisi, a Palestinian, is not an IS leader or senior member.  His opinions reflect his own analysis as an IS jihadist who says he spent time last year in Syria and Iraq with IS senior members and claims to be in regular contact with IS members via encrypted online forums.  Below is the transcript of Breitbart Jerusalem’s exclusive interview with Maqdisi. Abu Bakr, what is your opinion on the Orlando attack? In the name of Allah the merciful and compassionate, and after our prayers and praise to the Prophet Muhammad, the heroic attack Allah made possible for our martyr brother Omar Mateen is being praised. Allah helped, by the hands of the courageous martyr brother Omar, to deal a painful blow to the country that is the head of the infidels in the world. This is a painful blow to the fool American president, (Barack) Obama, who enjoys killing Muslims in the name of democracy and the fight against terror. Obama leads a coalition of terror that kills Muslim women and children day and night in Islamic countries that he occupies with the help of local infidel leaders. To the best of your knowledge, do you think this was a lone wolf attack not coordinated with IS? The Mujahedeen will continue hitting the infidels, especially America. And the Americans should expect more attacks, either organized or by lone wolves, either of which can be the case in Orlando and like last night in Paris. Every country participating in the coalition fighting the Muslims on the land of the Caliphate is expected, with the help of Allah, to be hit with more attacks. Judging by the reports on the ground, it looks like IS is weakened and in retreat in Iraq, Syria, and beyond. Are we witnessing the beginning of the end of your organization? We see the withdrawal, or as you call it, weakness, as tactical, but definitely not a defeat. This is a change in tactical formations that dictate the battle and the conditions under which these battles are developing. And as you can see, the city of Fallujah in Iraq still has not fallen into the hands of the infidels even though the international coalition led by the Americans and Iraqis are trying to capture the city from the hands of our brothers in the organization, who are killing dozens of attackers every day. Even in places like Ramadi, from where the organization withdrew its fighters, our courageous brothers are succeeding in attacking and regrouping. Obama avoided mentioning the term extremist Islam or Islamic terrorism in the context of the attack in Orlando. Do you appreciate the president’s position on this? Obama’s positions do not interest us. To us, he is the head of worldwide terrorism and his statements are a feeble attempt to present himself as a moderate leader before the Arab leaders. His comments cannot deceive and cheat the Mujahedeen while his army murders Muslim women and children in the name of fake democracy. Don’t you think the attack harms Muslims in the U. S. and the West first and foremost? These arguments are unconvincing as long as there are Muslims in the world. Muslims in America and Europe suffer from religious and cultural depression manifested in their being prevented from wearing the hijab and building and praying in mosques while they are exposed to daily racist attacks. Therefore, these arguments do not affect us. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.