Some of the young players enrolled at PSV Eindhoven’s academy have had to burst balloons. Others have been told to shoot dots, and more still have been tasked with bringing down alien space fleets. These are hardly the tasks traditionally demanded of teenage soccer prodigies, but then PSV, the Dutch club, does not think of itself as traditional. Most clubs, after all, are concerned only with developing players with nimble feet. PSV, increasingly, is concentrating on nurturing agile minds. That is why in recent years every player at the club, from the youth system to the reserve squad, has been assessed on at least one of four customized computer programs. Though the programs bear an uncanny similarity to   video games  —   balloons, space invaders and the rest  —   Jurrit Sanders, one of PSV’s sports scientists, rejects the term. “They are not games,” he said. “They are tests. ” Remarkably predictive ones, judging by the evidence that Sanders and his colleagues have encountered. The tests are designed to assess a player’s cognitive capacity, establishing and monitoring his abilities in 16 disciplines, including reaction time, how quickly he makes decisions and how intensely, and for how long, he is able to focus. “We have found that if a player comes in low on the tests, then they tend to leave the club at a low level,” Sanders said. “If they come in high, they tend to leave on a high level. ” The program remains at an early stage Sanders does not contend that the results are conclusive. PSV is sufficiently intrigued, though, to dedicate more time to researching cognitive training. “We know a lot about tactical training, technical training, physical training,” Sanders said. “We do not know a lot about this. ” Finding a way to sharpen the mind, he said, could be coaching’s next frontier. As The New York Times reported this year, there remains a considerable degree of skepticism among scientists and researchers about the benefits of cognitive training. Teams and individuals across a variety of sports continue to invest substantial sums  —   and even more faith  —   in systems claiming to hone the mind. Matt Ryan, the quarterback who led the Atlanta Falcons to the Super Bowl, is a devotee of NeuroTracker, a program also in use at Manchester United. Some experts retain the suspicion, however, that they are being sold a myth, that for all the advanced graphics and bold claims, computer programs designed to improve mental performance are, at best, a harmless placebo and, at worst, an expensive delusion. Luc van Agt, a physiologist at PSV, acknowledges those doubts. “We are just at the beginning,” he said. That was part of the reason the club agreed to take part in a study conducted last year at PSV and another Dutch club, AZ Alkmaar, by researchers from the University of Amsterdam. Led by Geert Savelsbergh  —   an academic known in the Netherlands as “the football professor,” van Agt said  —   the team exposed a control group of players to a video analysis exercise, in which they had to identify certain movements, such as passes and runs. Another group conducted sessions on IntelliGym, an Israeli cognitive training system based on technology designed in a very different context. “It was developed initially to help make fighter pilots smarter,” said Danny Dankner, IntelliGym’s chief executive. “But something clicked with me that this platform could be used to address a lot of different things. It turns out that there are a lot of similarities in the skill sets needed by footballers and pilots. ” IntelliGym’s interface is based on what Dankner called a “space battle metaphor,” which ice hockey teams have used for several years. It was adapted to make it more relevant to soccer, seen as an underexplored market, with the help of PSV coaches and former players  —   Phillip Cocu, Mark van Bommel, Ruud van Nistelrooy  —   with respected   pedigrees. “IntelliGym spoke to them,” van Agt said, “to find out what the program needed to do. ” The result is a system that would not look out of place in a   arcade. Players are asked to take control of one fleet of spaceships and take on another. The situation, though, changes continually. “One fleet can become invisible, or clouds might come and hide certain ships, or the player might be asked to take control of the other side,” Dankner said. Each twist is designed to flex another mental muscle. “It examines things like anticipation, the ability to divide your attention, your working memory, your spatial perception,” he said. The results of the University of Amsterdam study were clear. Both groups  —   initially comprising 52 players  —   were asked to perform their tasks twice a week over 10 weeks. Each time, they were then assessed in brief,   games outside on the training field. The researchers found that the skills of the players who had used IntelliGym improved by 30 percent more than those in the control group, according to Dr. Savelsbergh. Sanders is quick to point out that the study was hardly conclusive. But PSV is already conducting a “Phase 2 pilot,” in van Agt’s careful phrase, to see what else can be gleaned from the cognitive training. At AZ Alkmaar, the other club involved in the study, the reaction has been  —   if anything  —   even more enthusiastic. “We think of ourselves as the Apple of the football industry,” said Marijn Beuker, the head of performance and development at AZ. “We are always ready to think about new ways of doing things. “We are not a club that can buy the best talents, so we have to develop our own,” Beuker continued, “and to do that we try to look for every aspect of an athlete that can be improved. ” That culture of thinking differently has won AZ plenty of admirers. In February, Beuker visited with Bayer Leverkusen, in Germany, on a   expedition. Real Madrid is among the teams to have met with AZ to learn more about the club’s work, which AZ shares freely. “We do not worry that they will catch us up,” Beuker said, “because we believe that in the time it takes them to implement everything, we will have moved on again. ” That may explain his willingness to brush aside doubts about cognitive training: He makes the point that if the improvement is genuine, the cause is irrelevant. AZ has already incorporated IntelliGym into the training regimen of its   through   teams. “If we think it is something that works,” he said, “then it works. ” The next challenge, according to Sander Roege, PSV’s mental performance coach, is whether anyone can find a way to train cognitive functions with physical exercises. Whatever the doubts, the clubs see the possibilities that cognitive training could open up. The German Football Association has plans to incorporate an IntelliGym suite at its new training center in Frankfurt Oliver Bierhoff, its technical director, is an ardent convert to the idea that sharpening the mind is as important as honing the feet. This, they all believe, is the next frontier. It remains a distant one, but one that ultimately could revolutionize understanding of the sport. At PSV, Roege said there may come a point when it would be possible to determine precisely what sort of cognitive strengths players in specific positions might require. “We are getting closer to finding out what capacities are needed to play on a good level,” he said. “Maybe you will get an ideal profile of what is needed to be a top player. ”