HOUSTON, Texas  —   The leader of Houston’s New Black Panther Party said blacks “are being pimped like prostitutes” by Democrats and should listen to the message from Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. Trump reached out to members of the black community last week during a speech following riots in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. [Houston’s New Black Panther Party leader Quanell X addressed Trumps Milwaukee speech on a Fox 26 Faceoff with conservative radio talk show host Matt Patrick. “Let me say this to the brothers and sisters who listened and watched that speech,” he said. “We may not like the vessel that said what he said, but I ask us to truly examine what he said. ”   “It is a fact, that for 54 years we have been voting for the Democratic Party like no other race in America,” Quannel continued. “They have not given us the same loyalty and love that we have given them. We, as black people, have to   the relationship where we are being pimped like prostitutes and they’re the big pimps  —   pimping us politically, promising us everything, and we get nothing in return. ” During Trump’s Milwaukee speech, the GOP nominee laid the blame for problems in America’s inner cities squarely at the feet of Democrats and specifically to Hillary Clinton, Breitbart News’ Warner Todd Huston reported. “To every voter in Milwaukee, to every voter living in the inner city or every forgotten stretch of our society, I’m running to offer you a much better future, a much better job,” Trump said. The messages appears to have hit home with Quanell X and some other black activists across the country. “We’ve gotta step back now, as black people, and say that we’ve gotta look at all the parties and vote our best interest,” the Houston New Black Panther Party leader said. His sparring partner, Matt Patrick, agreed and said that the mainstream news media has been painting Trump as “a horrific individual and he can’t do anything right. ” He said they are nervous that Trump might come in and do things the right way. “Things that come out of his mouth, and the way he says things sometimes, I shake my head. ” Quannel responded saying, “He (Trump) spoke directly to black people, and I want to say, and encourage the brothers and sisters, Barrack Obama, our president, served two terms. The first black president ever. But, did our condition get better? Did financially, politically, academically with education in our community, did things get better?” He continued illustrating his point asking, “Are our young people working more than what it was when he came into office? Their condition got worse. ” “So now,” he surmised, “We’ve got to do what the honorable Eliah Muhammad said, ‘No politician can save the black community.’ We’ve gotta do it ourselves. ” “Only a fool fights in a burning house,” Quanell X said. “This house is on fire. ” Patrick responded, “Remember that if you’re planning on voting for Hillary Clinton. Other black leaders have joined in speaking out about the Democratic Party’s taking the black electorate for granted. Speaking at the Green Party’s presidential nominating convention in Houston earlier this month, a   black community leader, a former Democrat activists, spoke to blacks who were looking to find another party to support. “Are you going to try to go inside there and reform this [Democratic] Party, that has demonstrated in every way, with every opportunity, that they really do not give a flying f**k about what it is you care about?” YahNé Ndgo said. “And for me, that’s not a hard decision. ” “We saw what happened through the whole primary process,” Ndgo continued. “We saw what the Democratic Party did to the incredible candidacy that Bernie Sanders brought to the table and we saw what the Democratic Party did to the voters who selected Bernie, and who they blocked, and who they put someone else in that position who was not the person that the majority of the people selected, and who have experiencing no consequences to that reality. Right?” “And you live in a Democratic city, and you are supposed to be believing in the Democrats that run your city. How’s that supposed to happen?” she asked. Radio host Matt Patrick told Breitbart Texas in an interview on Friday he has been talking with Quanell X about the treatment of the black community by the Democrat party for over a year, encouraging him to say this publicly. “I really don’t think he is   us on this,” Patrick said. “I don’t think he would. ” Patrick said he hopes members of the black community will listen to Quanell’s message about the last eight years of Obama’s administration and the last 50 plus years of the Democratic Party’s control of major cities where race related crime runs rampant. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.