The Middle East Forum has released its   “Islamist Money In Politics” list, charting the top ten recipients of contributions from Islamic organizations  —   and Hillary Clinton is at the top of the list. [According to the Middle East Forum, their list tracks political donations from “from individuals who subscribe to the same Islamic supremacism as Khomeini, Bin Laden, and ISIS. ”  Clinton has received a total of $41, 165 from individuals that the Middle East Forum describes as “prominent Islamists,” including $19, 249 from senior officials of the Council on   Relations (CAIR) which was declared a terrorist organization by the United Arab Emirates on November 15, 2014. Republican Party candidate Donald Trump and Libertarian Party candidate Gary Johnson took no money from Islamists, according to the report. Green Party candidate Jill Stein has reportedly accepted $250, while defeated Democratic Party candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders accepted $9, 285  Jill Stein has accepted $250. Donald Trump and Gary Johnson have not received any Islamist money. Other top recent recipients of money from the enemy include Rep. Keith Ellison ($17, 370) and Rep. Andre Carson ($13, 225). The   list includes nine Democrats, one independent (Sanders) and no Republicans. Hillary Clinton has been a fierce critic of Donald Trump’s proposal for a freeze on Muslim immigration to the United States. “We are a country founded on religious freedom and liberty. How do we do what [Trump] has advocated without causing great distress within our country?” Clinton said earlier this month. “Are we going to have religious tests when people fly into our country?” Beyond political donations, the Clinton Foundation has received millions from Islamic countries. Saudi Arabia, dominated by radical Sunni fundamentalists and ruled by Sharia law, donated up to $50 million to the Clinton Foundation, while the Emirate of Qatar has donated between $1 million and $5 million. According to Clinton’s own State Department, Qatar’s human rights violations include “trafficking in persons   …     legal, institutional, and cultural discrimination against women limited their participation in society. ” You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to abokhari@breitbart. com.