  sex attacks by migrant gangs occurred in 12 of Germany’s 16 states, or 75 per cent, on New Year’s Eve, as revealed by German police. Although localised reports of attacks emerged almost immediately via social media, the full scale of the phenomenon is only now becoming clear  —   and it’s having a devastating effect on German society. [Some 1, 049 men and women were victimised in Cologne on New Year’s Eve, subject to a litany of crimes ranging from pickpocketing to gang rape at the hands of migrants and asylum seekers.  It was by far the most widespread example of migrant crime on New Years Eve, but a report by the German Judicial Police (BKA) obtained by news daily Sueddeutsche Zeitung and the NDR and WDR television stations, reveals that it was far from unique, the Local has reported. A state by state breakdown shows that almost all of Germany was affected by the crime spree. North   where Cologne is located, suffered the heaviest bout of migrant crime, registering some 1000 individual complaints. Next on the list is the   of Hamburg, where 200 complaints were made. At the other end of the scale are   Brandeburg, Saxony,   and Saarland, which all received one complaint each. As in Cologne, in almost all cases the, Yet whether it was one incident or one thousand, the people of Germany are increasingly feeling unsafe in their own neighbourhoods, putting pressure on the government to reverse their open door immigration policy which has so far been championed by Chancellor Angela Merkel. Mrs. Merkel, who is ideologically wed to the idea of an open Europe, is resisting all efforts to close the borders, instead lobbying for other European countries to take in more migrants to spread the load. Her obstinance is causing others within her party to look for ways to control the flow of migrant into Germany without shutting the borders  —   yesterday Julia Kloeckner, leader of Merkel’s Christian Democrats in the western state of   suggested setting up a series of “border centres” along the border with Austria in a bid to speed up the processing of migrants and deportation of those rejected. But Mrs. Merkel’s political opponents have been more forthright. Speaking on TV last night, Beatrix von Storch, chairman of the   Alterantive for Germany (AFD) party said Mrs. Merkel had “ruined” Germany like no other leader since the end of WW2. “I bet you that when this is all over and she has left office she will have to leave the country on security grounds. She will have to go into exile in Chile or some other place in South America,” she added. Meanwhile the people of Germany are left pleading for more protection from the migrant gangs roaming their streets. Last week Breitbart London reported on 16 year old Bibi Wilhailm, who uploaded a twenty minute plea for help in the face of the increasing Islamisation of her neighbourhood. Describing how she and a friend witnessed a protest by Muslims calling for death to infidels, she asked: “Why is Germany standing by, watching, and then doing nothing? Please explain, why. Men of Germany, these people are killing your children, they are killing your women. We need your protection. “The politicians live alone in their villas, drink their cocktails, and do nothing. They do nothing! I do not know what world they live in, but please, people, please help us! Please, do something!”