Dutch Freedom Party (PVV) leader Geert Wilders has made an impassioned plea for Western patriots to stand up and reject hatred and terrorism in the wake of several Islamist terror attacks. [Mr. Wilders has accused Western governments of being “dangerously blind” to the dangers of Islamisation, reeling off a list of recent terror attacks and calling for an end to Muslim migration. He said: “Western governments remain dangerously blind to the danger of Islamization. Islam is a religion of peace, they say but that is a lie. Look at what happened at Istanbul.  “Look at what happened in Orlando a few weeks ago. Look at what happened last March at Brussels airport and metro station, look at what happened at the Bataclan Theatre in Paris last November. Look at what happened in San Bernardino last December. “The list is endless. And everything this list has in common is Islam”. Mr. Wilders moved to clarify his point, remarking that while he believed that Islam was a significant problem for the West, individual Muslims could be good people. Regardless, he said: “no honest individual can say with a straight face that Islam is a doctrine of peace of freedom”. Outlining how he proposed to defend Europe from radical Islamism, Mr. Wilders said that a “patriotic spring” was on its way, and remarked: “People often ask me ‘what can be done?’ and the answer is actually quite simple. “Reject the fatalism. Islamisation is not inevitable. The first thing we need to do is recognize that Islam, and nothing but Islam, is the cause of our problems, and the next thing is to close our doors to Islamic intolerance  …     all immigration from Islamic countries. ” Stressing the importance of integration of Muslims into Western society, Mr. Wilders said those who were willing to work to fit in could fit in could stay, but those who wanted to create parallel Islamic societies within the West would be better off going to nations which already catered to their needs. He said: “Those who are already here are welcome to stay if they live according to our laws and constitution. But if they want to live according to Sharia law they should go to places like Saudi Arabia where there are no elections and no freedom of speech. “Where women and   are inferior beings and where dissidents are jailed, lashed are executed. We are the opposite of that and we want to keep it that way. More and more Patriots all over the West are beginning to realize that it is the time to draw the line. ” Issuing a call to arms, Mr. Wilders concluded: “The Patriot spring is on its way. People want their country back, they and want to preserve their freedom and security. They don’t want Sharia law here. They want to   their societies. “My friends, Islam and freedom are incompatible so join us stand for freedom, your own freedom, the freedom of your children and grandchildren, and defend the identity and civilization of the West. ” Geert Wilders is a veteran campaigner for Freedom in Europe and is one of the     activists. Speaking to Breitbart London earlier this month in the wake of a brutal Islamist killing in Paris, he said: “Ramadan is the deadliest time of the year. We should acknowledge that Islam is the problem. Islam and freedom are incompatible. We must   our Western societies”.  