The November 13 episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians will feature Kim Kardashian urging Khloe Kardashian and Kendall Jenner to meet with families of gun violence then join her gun control push. [Kim Kardashian emerged as a gun control proponent following the June 17, 2015,   attack on Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. She responded to that attack by suggesting we need “stricter legislation to prevent mass shootings. ” The Daily Mail quoted her saying, “I’m not the type to have them (guns) in my house, they scare me so much,” yet she framed gun control as something she would institute if she could “do something to change the world. ” She said, “I’m not really a gun person, and we do not have strict enough gun control laws. ”  And on June 12, 2016  —   the day of the deadly   attack at a nightclub in Orlando  —   Kardashian called for expanding background checks in a way that would prevent persons on the terror watch list from acquiring guns. She tweeted, “Under current federal law people on terror watch lists can legally buy guns  —   this is called the Terror Gap. ” She completely overlooked the fact that both gunmen  —   the A. M. E. church attacker and the Orlando Pulse attacker  —   passed a background check for their guns. Moreover, the Orlando gunman was not on any terror list, so expanding checks to include terror lists or   lists would not have hindered him in the least. Nevertheless, Kardashian continued to push gun control, meeting with victims of gun crime on August 5, 2016. Kardashian’s gun control advocacy grew as did her ties to Moms Demand Action. She  —   and her sisters Kourtney and Khloe met with family members of gun violence victims at an event organized by Moms Demand Action and Everytown for Gun Safety  —   now she is urging them to do it again. Ironically, on October 3, Kim Kardashian was allegedly robbed at gunpoint in Paris, a city with universal background checks  —   which include mental and criminal background checks and bans on entire categories of guns. Moreover, A Review of French Gun Laws shows that the background checks in Paris are so strict they include acquiring and maintaining “an active shooting club [membership],” going to the range “at least three times a year,” and “seeing a doctor every year,” who declares one “physically and mentally capable of owning a firearm. ” Kardashian responded to the robbery by increasing her armed security, but ENews! reports she is still campaigning for more gun control, which will only make it harder for   Americans to defend their lives against armed attacks. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.