  and Procter  Gamble are among a list of companies that refuse to sponsor   Olympic medalist and Second Amendment proponent Kim Rhode. [Rhode won her sixth Olympic medal on Friday, making her “the first woman to take the podium in six straight Olympics. ”  But   Procter  Gamble, and other prominent Olympic sponsors are not interested. According to Bloomberg News, Rhode’s agent, Patrick Quinn, said, “The big mystery is how someone like Kim isn’t part of the   Procter  Gamble, and the Olympics sponsor push. It would be nice to have an Olympic sponsor recognize the magnitude of her accomplishment. ” Rhode and other members of Team USA believe they are being passed over because of the nonstop denigration of the right to keep and bear arms. And they believe sponsors steer clear because the mainstream media have “attached a stigma to shooting as a sport. ” Rhode does enjoy sponsors from within the firearms industry, however. “Companies like Winchester, Beretta and Otis Technology support Rhode. ” She needs that support to cover the high costs of shooting competitively at the Olympic level. Bloomberg reports that “  firearms price between $000,” and one “day of training” can cost as much as $450, when you add “ammunition, clay pigeons and range fees. ” Rhode has stuck with this expensive sport, represented America, and earned a medal in five consecutive Olympic Games. On August 11, Breitbart News reported Rhode treasures the right to keep and bear arms and believes the Founding Fathers put the Second Amendment in the Bill of Rights to protect the First. Time magazine quoted Rhode saying, “The [S]econd [A]mendment was put in there not just so we can go shoot skeet or go shoot trap. It was put in so we could defend our First amendment, the freedom of speech. ” She added, “[The Second Amendment is] also to defend ourselves against our own government. ” Founding Father James Madison could not have agreed more, and his Federalist 46 is proof of it. Nonetheless,   and Procter  Gamble refuse to sponsor Kim Rhode. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.