Reality TV star and gun control proponent Kim Kardashian is reportedly making significant increases to her security detail after being robbed at gunpoint in Paris earlier this month. [According to TMZ, Kardashian “met with some   force members from the Israeli army,   agents as well as former Secret Service members” after the robbery. She has now hired an unspecified number of former Secret Service agents as part of the effort to “[amp] up her security to Presidential levels. ” The security detail will reportedly include “one team of 2 hired muscles (minimum) everywhere she goes” and the car in which she travels will be “armored. ”  The move comes after the    Keeping Up with the Kardashians star was robbed at gunpoint by masked men in her Paris hotel room during Paris Fashion Week. The thieves  —   who remain at large  —   reportedly stole $5. 6 million worth of jewelry, including a diamond ring given to Kardashian by her husband Kanye West said to be worth $4 million. AFP reported that Kardashian was “badly shaken but physically unharmed” after the incident, during which she was reportedly bound and gagged. It is noteworthy to contrast Kardashian’s approach to her personal security with her campaign for more gun control for   citizens the former relies on good guys with guns to keep her safe, while the latter makes it harder for good guys to get guns to keep themselves safe. After the June 17, 2015,   attack on Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, Kardashian voiced support for “stricter legislation to prevent mass shootings. ” The Daily Mail quoted her saying, “I’m not the type to have them (guns) in my house, they scare me so much,” yet she did not hesitate to push for increased gun control measures as something she believed would “change the world. ” “I’m not really a gun person, and we do not have strict enough gun control laws,” she reportedly said. Kardashian appeared to have missed the fact that gun laws in Paris are among the most strict in the world, but this did not prevent terrorists from acquiring guns and killing 12 people in the January 7, 2015 attack on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. Moreover, on November 13, 2015  —   months after Kardashian described gun control as something that could “change the world”  —   armed terrorists shot and killed 130 people in   Paris. On June 12, the day an attacker shot and killed 49 people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Kardashian suggested the US needs stronger laws to keep guns out of the hands of terrorists.  She tweeted: “Under current federal law people on terror watch lists can legally buy guns  —   this is called the Terror Gap. ” But Kardashian apparently missed the fact that the Orlando attacker was not on a terror watch list therefore, including the terror watch list in background checks would not have hindered, much less prevented, the Orlando attack. As recently as August 5, 2016, Kardashian and her sisters Kourtney and Khloe met with family members of gun violence victims at an event organized by the Michael   Moms Demand Action and Everytown for Gun Safety. Two months later, Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint while in Paris, a city with gun control that exceeds the laws Kardashian has advocated for in the United States. Kardashian will apparently surround herself with more good guys with guns for safety, but has not recanted her efforts to make it harder for good guys to acquire guns with which to defend themselves.   AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.