On Friday a home invader was shot and killed while allegedly trying to steal weapons from a gun store owner’s father. [The incident occurred Gwinnett County, Georgia, around 4 a. m. at the home of Willie Wofford —  the stepfather of Central Texas Gun Works’ owner Michael Cargill. Willie’s wife Ann was at home at the time of the attempted intrusion as well.  According to Fox 5, law enforcement officials said “Willie and Ann  …    woke up to sounds of someone trying to break into their home. ” Willie called police then “grabbed his firearm” and walked toward the noise, which was coming out of the master bath. Once in the bathroom he allegedly “found    Michael Silva climbing into the window” and opened fire. Willie told responding officers he was not sure if any of his shots struck Silva, but the officers “found Silva dead on the sloping roof. ” Gun store owner Micheal Cargill said, “[Silva] took a ladder out of my parents’ pool [shed]  …    and laid it against the house and went into the   bathroom window. When my stepfather heard the noise, he got up and had to stop him. ” Police “confirmed Silva used a ladder to enter the backside of the house. ” Cargill spoke to Breitbart News on Sunday afternoon and said police do not believe Silva acted alone. Rather, they believe up to four suspects could have been involved. Moreover, he said, “What we’re hearing from the police reports —  and the information recovered from a cellphone which was dropped at the scene —  is that the suspects knew that those were parents, that I own a gun store, and they intended to do harm to my parents and steal some firearms. ” Cargill said the suspect who was shot and killed “was on probation for aggravated assault and terrorist threats stemming from a January 2013 case. ” Gwinnett Police Department Corporal Deon Washington said, “It appears [the Wofford’s] are well within their rights of using deadly force to protect their home. ” AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.