Rich, old, white men haunt Christine Brennan. [Upscale, stale, pale males give her nightmares. Within the U. S. Golf Association, this group, and their allies suffering from false consciousness, honored the group’s commitment to play the 2017 U. S. Women’s Open at Trump National Golf Club. And if the name didn’t give it away, the deplorable Donald, who also just happened to win election as leader of the free world last week, owns the course.  This cannot stand, according to Ms. Brennan. She writes, “A national championship hosted by the President of the United States? Isn’t that the stuff of our dreams? Actually with this man, it’s more like a nightmare. ” Not exactly heeding Obama’s and Hillary’s call to give   Trump a chance, huh? She goes on to drill down into who’s behind this travesty of, um, honoring the contract, existing for years, with Trump National. “Its biggest problem in attracting new golfers from an increasingly diverse America?” she asks. “The perception that golf is a sport for rich, white men. And now the USGA is unable to act, paralyzed by a rich, white man who has ridiculed almost everyone but his cronies and peers, almost all of whom are rich, white men. ” Ms. Brennan’s says her demand to move the tournament would be heeded if only if it weren’t for those old, rich white men. “If you had a spine you could. If you had a moral compass. If you were outraged at the way Trump so brazenly admitted he treated women. If you truly cared about the image you’re projecting for the women and girls you’re desperately trying to attract to your game. That’s a lot of ‘ifs’ for a      organization like the USGA to overcome,” she writes. It probably bears noting that the president of the USGA, Diana Murphy, is, as her name suggests, a woman. But that fact goes unmentioned shockingly enough. Think it would have been mentioned if the USGA president was named Thurston Rutherford Hollingsworth III? How dare the USGA not acquiesce to the demands of this national sports columnist who happens to be a woman? Christine Brennan has the moral authority to demand this because although she may be upscale, stale and pale  …    she ain’t no male!