BAGHDAD  —   Iraqi forces trying to reclaim Mosul penetrated the western part of the city on Tuesday, retaking a bridge and several public buildings during heavy clashes with the Islamic State militants, officials said. Civilians reported that the bombardment and gunfire were the heaviest since Feb. 19, the beginning of the operation to retake the western part of the city  —   the country’s   where roughly a million people are trapped and living in desperate conditions. Soldiers recaptured a branch of the central bank, an archaeological museum that jihadists ransacked after taking the city in 2014, and the Hurriya Bridge, which crosses the Tigris River in the center of the city, Brig. Gen. Yahya Rasool, a military spokesman, said by phone. “We will never stop until we liberate Mosul entirely,” he said. Lt. Gen. Raed Shakir Jawdat, the chief of the federal police, said that security forces had also retaken a government compound. A statement from the   coalition forces assisting the Iraqis gave a similar account of their progress. The museum was a focus of worldwide attention after it was seized by Islamic State militants, who used sledgehammers and drills to smash artifacts in its collection. The destruction horrified scholars around the world. Lt. Gen. Abdul Amir   a spokesman for an elite unit of Interior Ministry troops, said that the buildings retaken from the Islamic State included a courthouse where militants had carried out whippings, stonings and beheadings, as well as a building where militants had thrown people to their deaths. “The liberation of the government compound is a step forward for our forces, a vital motivating position for us,” General Muhammadawi said in an interview. “The international coalition’s airstrikes and drones have played a major role in accelerating the liberation of the city. ” It was not yet clear how lasting the gains would be. Although soldiers raised the Iraqi flag over the government compound, in the Dawasa neighborhood, they were later forced to retreat under heavy fire from Islamic State militants, The Associated Press reported. The museum remained within the range of Islamic State snipers, making it vulnerable to a counterattack. Social media accounts associated with the Islamic State reported that militants had set off three suicide bombs during the offensive. Though the military advances were tenuous, government forces said that Tuesday represented a critical moment in their weekslong offensive to retake western Mosul. The fighting, which included recapturing most of the city’s airport, has not been easy. It took Iraqi forces more than three months to gain control over eastern Mosul, and casualties there were heavy. Prime Minister Haider   and the chief of staff of the country’s armed forces toured the headquarters of the operations command responsible for the offensive, just outside Mosul, on Tuesday to “review the progress of security forces,” according to a statement. The Hurriya, or Freedom, Bridge is the second of five bridges to be retaken by government forces.   airstrikes damaged all five bridges last year in a bid to isolate the militants in Mosul. Mosul fell to the Islamic State in June 2014, along with large parts of the country’s north and west. It is the largest Iraqi population center still wholly or partly in the militant group’s control. The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs reported on Tuesday that about 46, 000 people had been displaced from their homes in Mosul since Feb. 19  —   including 13, 350 on Friday alone  —   in the highest continuous displacement of civilians since October. “All people displaced from western Mosul have been accommodated either with family members or in camps or emergency sites, where they receive a tented plot, basic household supplies, hygiene kits and   food rations,” the United Nations office said. Camp construction and the installation of water and sanitation services are underway south of Mosul, the office added. Since Feb. 19, the office said, more than 500 people have been treated for   wounds, including 15 people who were hospitalized in Erbil, a   city east of Mosul, for treatment after an apparent   attack. Many in eastern Mosul lack drinking water, officials have warned, and many in the southern and western parts of the city are drinking untreated water, which could lead to the spread of diseases.