Frequent Fox News guest Michael Malice stopped by The Milo Show this week where he discussed his experience at Bucknell University, an institution which he claimed was ripe with   and elitist snobbery. [Malice lambasted Bucknell’s culture of   claiming that students and faculty rarely engaged with ideas that conflicted with their worldview during his time at the university. I highlighted this in February when I compared the warm embrace the university gave a guest speaker from the Black Panther Party who had a history of violent rhetoric with the reception received by the relatively harmless provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos, whose visit inspired hostility from both faculty and students.  Malice partially attributed the culture of   to the radicalism that dominated many of the university’s departments.  “The head of the economics department when I was there was a feminist Marxist, and one of her themes was ‘since the laws of economics were discovered by men, they are inherently sexist and need to be rediscovered by women. ’” Like many students, Malice expected his university experience to be intellectually stimulating. Always a skeptic, Malice hope to challenge his own views, as well as the views of others. Instead, Malice claims that his peers rarely ventured outside of their intellectual bubbles. “No critical thought. These are the same people who 30 years ago said ‘you’re eating raw fish, what is wrong with you?’ And now, ‘I’m a foodie, you gotta go to this place, they have the freshest stuff. ” Yiannopoulos and Malice discussed the series of dissidents that have passed through the gates of Bucknell University over the past 20 years. “What’s weird is that it seems there is a one true ring that gets passed down. Vox Day was there eight years before me. And then right between Vox Day and me was Evan Coyne Maloney, who was called the   Michael Moore, he did a film called IndoctrinateU. ” “And now they’ve got Tom Ciccotta,” Milo added. Yiannopoulos and Malice suggested that the university’s continued failure to provide a complete education will only give rise to more conservative and libertarian Bucknell dissidents. “I love the idea that the President of Bucknell is always between   shitlords, is sitting there just wondering which of their   intake is going to rear his head as the new evil monster,” Yiannopoulos said. At Bucknell and similar institutions, it’s become a reality that conservative and libertarian students aren’t afforded the same university experience as are their progressive peers. An overwhelming majority of university professors and campus guest speakers fall somewhere on the progressive spectrum, and course curriculum is almost exclusively an extension of the instructor’s worldview. Yiannopoulos saved some praise for the university for the end of the segment. “I did have fun at the parties there. I think there’s a little pocket of people [at Bucknell] who are fun and interesting and just don’t give a toss about anything. ” You can listen to the full segment below: Tom Ciccotta is a libertarian who writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com