Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage told the Breitbart News Saturday show the establishment in America is getting “  ” about the prospect of Donald Trump winning the presidency. [Speaking to Breitbart London’s    Raheem Kassam, Mr. Farage also explained why the party has a bright future, and expressed concern over London mayor Sadiq Khan’s declaration that migrants shouldn’t assimilate.  The UKIP MEP reported that his party’s conference in Bournemouth went well and said that the party’s newly crowned leader, Diane James, has been  . Asked what’s next for the party, he remarked: “I think UKIP  —   you know, the government is beginning to backslide on Brexit. They’re not delivering, I think UKIP is there  —   we’ve got to finish the job. ” Mr Farage noted some of the reasons the party is on strong ground for future elections such as its loyal voter base and that the Labour party is “in meltdown” overchoosing a new leader. Pointing out how Labour is completely neglecting half of its voter base  —   ‘Brexit’ voters living in the North of England  —   the popular MEP stated “the key to it all is ‘Brexit’. ” “Is the government going to take back our borders, get back our fishing waters and genuinely make us a free country? If they do, UKIP will be slightly diminished. If they fail, UKIP at the next election will be bigger than it’s ever been” Mr Farage continued. On the topic of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, UKIP’s former leader told Mr Kassam he’d sported the iconic red “Make America Great Again” baseball cap at a cocktail party, and condemned the media’s relentless bias against the real estate mogul. “Trump is being hit with this birther stuff again, don’t know how much is now in media over there  …     But you’ve seen this right where they try to distract you from the messaging, from the core of your campaign and take you into a place you don’t want to” Mr Kassam said. Pointing out that media tactics show increasing establishment fear of the prospect of President Trump, the UKIP icon declared they are right to be afraid. He said: “The establishment in America are getting   scared of Trump and so you know what? So they should be  —   he looks solid, assured,   and he’s been really playing the game well  —   but he must not let them distract him, at all. ” Asked his opinion of comments Sadiq Khan recently made while touring the US and Canada, in which the mayor said migrants should not “drop their cultures and traditions” Mr Farage said they left him “worried”: “I find that absolutely extraordinary. You know, he’s the mayor of London  —   a city that’s had problems with  . It leaves me somewhat worried about his tenure as London mayor. ”