Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos phoned into the Vince Coakley radio show on Monday morning, where he discussed his reaction to the Islamic terrorist attack that occurred in Orlando, Florida this weekend.[  As a Brit, Milo talked about how he has seen   what a country weakened by Islam looks like, and that one reason why he is in the US is to warn people about the threat it poses. Since progressives mollycoddle Islam, the democratic way of life enjoyed by so many in America will be undermined by an alien civilisation. “Islam is a barbaric, hideous culture with huge structural problems  …     everywhere there is Islam, these problems [hatred of women and gays] exist. ” The social justice warriors who pander to Islam deserve to be mocked and ridiculed, he went on to say. They have lost perspective as to who exactly in society needs to be protected. Milo detailed exactly why there was so much backlash against his attack on Islam from the gay community according to Milo, nothing annoys people like telling them a harsh truth that deep down they know is real i. e. cognitive dissonance. Milo mentioned that gay men like him have a tendency towards melodrama, and that whilst the truth may hurt, it is better than the alternative. Milo proceeded to defend the second amendment as the best way for gay people to protect themselves against homophobic attacks by Islamic extremists. Put simply, “gay men don’t get bashed. ” Milo argued that “if people had been packing, there could have been fewer lives lost. ” Thankfully, Milo noted that he has seen gay people say to him over Twitter and via other methods of communication that whilst they were at first doubtful about his description of Islam, they now know the threat it poses. “Gay people are breaking free from the shackles of far left lunacy   …     [they] are waking up and having ‘road to Damascus’ moments. If there is something to be salvaged from this horrible attack, it will be that. ” Jack Hadfield is a student at the University of Warwick and a regular contributor to Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter here: @ToryBastard_.