Charles Ortel, a successful investor and independent journalist, spoke with Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon on Wednesday about the state and foreign governments investigating charity fraud at the Clinton Foundation, despite FBI Director James Comey’s decision not to charge Hillary Clinton for her handling of top secret emails while she was Secretary of State. [“Many month ago, I thought to myself charity fraud is a state matter. And because this is an international global charity, it’s a foreign matter,” said Ortel, who’s spent more than 15 months researching the Clinton Foundation’s public records, donor disclosure data, federal, and   tax filings.  “Let’s go after potential infractions. Let’s see if there’s potential illegal acts at the state level and at the foreign level,” he continued. Because if we go down those avenues, the President [Obama] cannot pardon those crimes. There’s no way that he can do that, neither by executive action or any other means. ” “And I can tell you that many states and many foreign countries are actively looking at this,” Ortel said. Ortel is the former Wall Street analyst who blew the lid on financial discrepancies at General Electric in 2007 before that company’s stock crashed the following year. Ortel has spent the last year researching and publishing proof of what he calls “the largest unprosecuted charity fraud ever attempted  —   that being the network of illegal activities worldwide whose heart is the Bill, Hillary, and Chelsea Clinton Foundation. ” In his interview, Ortel told Bannon that “there are massive diversions” and “major discrepancies” between what donors reported that they gave to the Clinton Foundation and what the Clinton Foundation’s public disclosures said they received. “And they’re easy to track down,” Ortel said. “If I can do it, as a private citizen, imagine what government authorities and state and foreign levels can do. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson