New York Times tech columnist Farhad Manjoo is calling on Google to “fix” its search engine results to hide evidence of Hillary Clinton’s failing health. [“Go online and put down, ‘Hillary Clinton illness,’ and take a look at the videos yourself,” Rudy Giuliani recently said on Fox News, during an argument about how sick Clinton really is.  Manjoo of the Times called for Google to “fix” the problem of search results possibly hurting the Democratic nominee. “Google should fix this. It shouldn’t give quarter to conspiracy theorists,” Manjoo tweeted. Google should fix this. It shouldn’t give quarter to conspiracy theorists https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Farhad Manjoo (@fmanjoo) August 21, 2016,  A Google search for “Hillary Clinton illness,” following Giuliani’s comments and Manjoo’s call for action, turns up some independent journalistic articles from Breitbart, Infowars, and others, alongside articles trying to debunk the story, like the Vox piece: “The bonkers conspiracy theory about Hillary Clinton’s health. ” In reality, Clinton’s health is becoming a major issue in the campaign. Photographs of Hillary Clinton being helped up a flight of stairs in South Carolina recently set the Internet on fire. Though Clinton’s doctor Lisa Bardack released a perfunctory letter in 2015 describing Clinton as healthy, most voters want her to make a full disclosure of her health records. Multiple Twitter hashtags  —   #HillarysHealth, #HillarysStools, for example  —   became dominant trends on the social network. Clinton is still taking strong medications, such as the blood thinner Coumadin after she suffered a blood clot and concussion. Dr. Drew Pinsky described her drug regimen as “  care” on his radio show this week. Clinton frequently leans against stools on stage at her campaign speeches, and she admitted that she was exhausted by the end of the Democratic convention in Philadelphia  —   even though, as far as this reporter could tell, she was just sitting in her hotel the entire time until she gave her acceptance speech to scattered boos.