Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department investigators began a search Tuesday morning for a person suspected of throwing a lit object through the glass of Kardashian   clothing store DASH Boutique in Beverly Grove Monday night. [Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department spokesman Lt. Vance Duffy told KTLA that an eyewitness to the attempted arson called law enforcement at around 11:20 p. m. Monday evening claiming they had seen someone throw a lit object at the building, located in the 8400 block of Melrose Avenue in trendy West Hollywood.  Bystanders quickly posted photos of the scene to social media. The images reveal the extent of the damage to the outside of the   fashion store. Arson investigators say someone tried to set Kardashian owned boutique ”Dash” in West Hollywood on fire pic. twitter.   —   Julie Sone (@ABC7JulieSone) June 7, 2016,  ’Lit Object’ Thrown at Kardashian Owned DASH Boutique in Beverly Grove  —   KTLA https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   IdolFinale (@Idol_Finale) June 7, 2016,  #KimKardashian and her sisters’ Dash boutique in Hollywood targeted in firebo  …     https:  .  #Kardashian pic. twitter.   —   Zesty Kardashians (@zesty_kardash) June 7, 2016,  Reality TV stars and fashion models Kim, Khloe, and Kourtney Kardashian are all   of the store. The object, wrapped in cloth, failed to ignite anything else in the store, Duffy said. According to ABC7 News reporter Marc   an arrest had been made: “Suspect in custody accused of breaking window, trying to start fire at Kardashian’s ‘Dash’ store on Melrose in WeHo. ” Suspect in custody accused of breaking window, trying to start fire at Kardashian’s ’Dash’ store on Melrose in WeHo. pic. twitter.   —   Marc   (@abc7marccr) June 7, 2016,  However, a detailed description of the person who threw the burning object wasn’t given to police, Lt. Duffy said, adding that no suspect had been taken into custody at the time. Police are investigating the incident as an attempted arson. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson