More than 1, 000, 000 people have signed the boycott pledge against Target, following the secretive decision by executives to open all of their stores’ bathrooms and changing rooms to people of both sexes. [Late Thursday night, roughly 75 people a minute were adding their name to the petition as it clicked over 1 million, just after 10:30 pm Eastern Time.  “That’s a million families who are going to spread the word about Target, so they may not get those customers back,” or their money, said Tim Wildmon, president of the American Family Association, which has hosted the boycott.  Target’s “management is just going to have step up here [and] say ‘We’re selling hammers and hats, we’re not into social engineering,’” he said.  Just reached 1 million signatures! #BoycottTarget pic. twitter.   —   American Family Assc (@AmericanFamAssc) April 29, 2016,  The boycott was announced April 20 by the association, one day after Target revealed its decision to favor its few transgender customers and staff over the rest of the population. A study of the 2010 census data suggests that only about 1 in 2, 400 adults change their names to match names used by the other sex. Wildmon’s association wants to affirm people’s privacy in bathrooms and changing rooms, but also to block the progressives’   push to stigmatize and outlaw any recognition of the average differences between women and men, and between boys and girls. The LGBT agenda “is being rammed down people’s throats, and people are losing their jobs because of it, and it is becoming so that you can’t think differently from these people or you’re [called] a hater or a bigot,” he said.  Since the decision was announced, numerous comments, articles, and videos protesting the store’s   decision have gone viral. Public opinion has moved and hardened in opposition to the previously bizarre notion of   bathrooms and changing rooms, and Target’s brand as a family friendly store has taken a hit, as the online conversation shifted from its claim of “cheap chic” to worries of privacy, sexual predators, and the anger at the company’s disregard for the reasoned judgement of its   customers. “This is how people can fight back  —   they’re not going to shop at Target,” said Wildmon.   The I Pledge to Boycott @Target Stores petition has 1, 000, 911 Signers as of 10:14 PM    eastern time!! #BoycottTarget OVER ONE MILLION!  —   Silver Fox (@SilverFoxOO7) April 29, 2016,    Over 500K people have signed the #BoycottTarget pledge. Good luck making the case they’re just all bigot h8trs. Really. Best of luck there.  —   LMR (@LilMissRightie) April 25, 2016,  Target, however, is not responding to customers’ opposition. “We certainly respect that there are a wide variety of perspectives and opinions. As a company that firmly stands behind what it means to offer our team an inclusive place to work  —   and our guests an inclusive place to shop  —   we continue to believe that this is the right thing for Target, company spokeswoman Molly Snyder said April 25. Amid the turmoil, the company’s stock edged down from $83. 98 per share on April 19 to roughly $81. 33 in April 28. That’s a loss of $2. 65 per share, which chops the company’s stock market value by $1. 5 billion, down to $48. 8 billion. The company’s Twitter, however, has been very inactive. The most recent tweet was sent out April 19, even though the company has been sending out a tweet every two or three days in the first half of April. #Spring is in. And so is the #MarimekkoForTarget collection: https:  .  Cc: @Kay819 pic. twitter.   —   Target (@Target) April 19, 2016, 