Donald J. Trump, the presumptive 2016 GOP presidential nominee, told Breitbart News exclusively on Wednesday that his Democratic counterpart presumptive nominee Hillary Clinton is “guilty as hell” over the email scandal. And Trump says the voters will ensure that Clinton “will pay for her sins” by rejecting her at the ballot box. [“It’s a totally rigged system,” Trump said when asked to react to the news that FBI director James Comey announced that the bureau would not be recommending charges against Clinton on Tuesday. “She was guilty as hell. She’s guilty as can be. You look at what went on and it’s just point after point after point where she’s guilty, including the missing 30, 000 emails. 30, 000 emails were wiped clean! The server, there’s so many other aspects on which she’s guilty —  and there’s so many other people who were guilty for far less. This is a tremendous miscarriage of justice. ”  Comey announced during a press event on Tuesday that the FBI would not be recommending criminal charges against Hillary Clinton over her   email server. Despite that recommendation, Comey proceeded to detail how everything Clinton has said about this matter has been a lie. Specifically, Comey proved that Clinton did send and receive emails that were marked classified at the time, that Clinton did not provide all emails in a transparent manner to the State Department, and that Clinton’s attorneys did not review every single email. Those three points, in addition to being politically devastating for Clinton, were also instances where —  as Breitbart News’s Joel Pollak has shown —  she perjured herself under oath in testimony before Congress. When asked about that, Trump told Breitbart News that it is clear Clinton “lied” to Congress during her testimony before the House Select Committee on Benghazi. “Yes, she lied to Congress,” Trump said. “She lied to everybody. That’s what she does is she lies, and then she gets away with it. But the voters are going to end her lying. It’s going to come to a conclusion on Nov. 8. ” “She told tremendous lies,” he added. Trump also believes that Clinton could face congressionally pushed charges if the House Select Committee on Benghazi, and the congressional leadership, decided to pursue charges. “I think the Committee would have the option to do that, certainly,” Trump replied when asked if Congress should file charges against Clinton. A spokesman for the Committee, which is chaired by Rep. Trey Gowdy ( ) has not immediately responded to a request for comment from Breitbart News. When asked whom he trusts more to hold Clinton accountable for her actions —  Congress or the voters —  Trump replied that Hillary Clinton will pay the ultimate price for her “sins” on election day. “Hillary Clinton will be judged by the voters on Nov. 8,” Trump said. “She will fail. And listen, on Nov. 8, she will pay for her sins. She will fail. ” Trump also praised former House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform chairman Rep. Darrell Issa ( ) who earlier on Wednesday during an interview on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM Channel 125 laid out how to change this travesty of justice that places even the power to appoint an independent special prosecutor with Loretta Lynch, the attorney general. Lynch, last week, had a secret meeting in Phoenix with former President Bill Clinton —  Hillary’s husband —  for which she has come under enormous political scrutiny. She has refused to appoint an impartial, not politically or personally motivated investigator in this matter —  and now Hillary Clinton wants to keep her on as attorney general in the new administration. Issa, who has battled with the Department of Justice in this administration for its politically tainted motivations under now former Attorney General Eric Holder over Operation Fast and Furious, told Breitbart News Daily host Stephen K. Bannon that Congress must attach to   legislation a provision that allows Congress to bring criminal charges against administration officials rather than relying on the administration to hold itself accountable. Issa said during the show: We do not have an independent justice system in the courts —  in other words, the judges —  if we do not have an independent system at the Department of Justice. And that’s what we saw yesterday. The Department of Justice cannot be subordinated to the president when it is enforcing laws by the president or his cabinet or his administration. That’s what has to be corrected by Congress. We have to create some teeth to what was once known as the Independent Consul because Congress or some other body must be able to bring criminal charges before the court, before the people, so they can react. Otherwise Lois Lerner gets a free pass, Eric Holder gets a free pass, and yes Hillary Clinton gets a free pass. Issa asked the listeners of Breitbart News Daily and the voters across America to call Congress and demand that that such a measure that would grant Congress such power would be attached to a   piece of legislation —  and then force the president to choose to either shut down the government or agree to the measure allowing Congress to bring criminal charges against administration officials. While Trump didn’t fully endorse Issa’s idea, he praised Issa as a great leader when asked about it during Wednesday’s Breitbart News exclusive interview. “I have great respect for Congressman Issa,” Trump said. “And I can say that obviously the system is not working too well. He’s [Issa] been great. He’s been so helpful. ” More from Trump’s latest exclusive interview with Breitbart News is forthcoming. 