In June, Breitbart News achieved record website traffic, generating 24. 5 million unique visitors, 68 million visits, and 150 million pageviews. [“We set out to build a strong, vibrant community made up of savvy and engaged readers who demand excellence in reporting,” said Breitbart News CEO Larry Solov. “Our   rankings in social media, combined with these traffic metrics, testify to the strength of our strategy —  and the loyalty of our readers. ”  The   June metrics are merely the latest in a broader growth trajectory that has culminated in 1. 45 billion pageviews, 194 million uniques, and 676. 4 million sessions over the last twelve months. Indeed, the first six months of 2016 have been the biggest in the media company’s history, resulting in 101. 3 million uniques, 362. 7 million sessions, and 805. 4 million pageviews in the first half of the year alone. When Breitbart News relaunched its website in 2012, the conservative news outlet received 12 million pageviews a month. Today, Breitbart generates over 12 times that figure. “At Breitbart. com, we’re covering the news rapidly, comprehensively, and accurately,” said Breitbart News    Alexander Marlow. “And perhaps most importantly, we focus on stories and angles the people want to read but the mainstream media doesn’t want to cover. Plus, we’re having a great time. It comes as no surprise that more people are turning to our   team for the latest information. ” In addition to expanding its physical footprint, Breitbart’s presence and popularity on radio and social media have helped power the company’s ability to reach and attract new readers. Breitbart News Daily, broadcast live on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 from 6AM to 9AM Eastern, is hosted by Breitbart Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon. In just 90 days, the hit radio show has jumped to #73 on the Talkers Heavy Hundred rankings. And in June, leading social media analytics company NewsWhip ranked Breitbart #1 in the world for political social media, scoring over two million more Facebook and Twitter engagements than next closest competitor Huffington Post. “We made a strategic bet that   granular reporting would win the day,” said Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon. “So we made substantial investments in opening bureaus in London, Texas, California, Jerusalem, and created Breitbart Tech. As the historic Brexit vote recently demonstrated, that bet has paid off in a big way for our readers. ” Bannon added: “Great things happen when you respect readers’ intelligence and give them the truth. ”