During a radio interview set to be broadcast on Sunday, comic legend Jackie Mason stepped up his rhetoric against Sen. Bernie Sanders for the latter’s repeated criticism of Israel. [Mason, who refers to himself as the “Ultimate Jew,” called Sanders an “  and a “viciously   Jew. ”  Mason was speaking during his regular segment on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” the popular weekend talk radio program broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM in Philadelphia. Klein doubles as Breitbart’s senior investigative reporter and Jerusalem bureau chief. Klein had asked Mason whether Sanders’ comments about Israel would be taken differently if they were espoused by someone who isn’t Jewish. Mason replied: If a   was saying it, people would call him an   because he is an  . Just because he’s a Jew doesn’t mean he can’t hate being Jewish because he obviously is a viciously   Jew. For him to create all of these fraudulent statements, one on top of the other, exaggerations and    lies, and then he apologized for them and then he said it again. He’s like a man determined not just to criticize Israel, but a man who’s determined to prove not only that he dislikes Jews and Judaism, but he hates it and he hates Israel.  You would think Israel is a Nazi organization and he’s a Jew fighting the Nazis. You would never know he was a Jew fighting a Jewish country. This man is violently sick. In a follow up email to Klein, Mason affirmed that he indeed intended to call Sanders an  . Mason escalated his rhetoric from last week, when he slammed Sanders on Klein’s show as a “schmuck” for criticizing the Jewish state. Sanders has repeatedly stated that Israel’s actions during the 2014   War were “disproportionate. ”  He also vastly inflated the numbers of civilian deaths during the conflict, surpassing even Hamas’s fraudulent nubers, and wrongly claimed that Israel bombed “hospitals” during the war. Klein himself previously responded to Sanders’ “disproportionate” criticism against Israel. Klein wrote at Breitbart: First, let’s not forget why the Gaza War was launched in the first place. Hamas repeatedly violated a truce by firing scores of rockets from Gaza into Israeli civilian population zones. In one day alone, July 8, Hamas launched 40 rockets into Israel, prompting Israeli retaliation and the start of the conflict. What nation on earth would allow a terrorist army to amass a rocket infrastructure in a neighboring territory and use that land  —   which Israel evacuated in hope of peace  —   as a staging ground for constant terrorist rocket attacks? And by calling Israel’s   “disproportionate,” what exactly is Sanders advocating? That instead of acting to minimize the terrorist threat against its civilians, Israel should respond to every act of Palestinian terrorism with an equivalent act? So if Hamas fires a rocket into a Jewish city, Israel should therefore respond by indiscriminately launching a terror rocket into a Palestinian city with the intent of killing civilians? That the next time a Palestinian stabs an Israeli, the Jewish state should send one of its own into Ramallah to stab a Palestinian civilian? Sanders’s statement is preposterous, nonsensical, and negates Israel’s ability to defend itself and degrade Hamas’s terrorist infrastructure.      