On February 5th, Breitbart News exclusively reported that Sen. Jeff Sessions issued a list of five questions that all candidates must answer if they wish to seek the Republican nomination. In recent years, Sessions has emerged as the intellectual thought leader of the   conservative movement. Sessions has articulated how mass immigration combined with reckless trade deals is compressing wages and decimating America’s middle class. [Sessions’ questionnaire consisted of five straightforward questions addressing immigration, trade, and crime in the United States.  The first candidate to reply to Sessions’ questionnaire was GOP frontrunner Donald J. Trump. In his response, Trump declares, “After my inauguration, for the first time in decades, Americans will wake up in a country where their immigration laws are enforced. ” Trump’s full, unedited answers to the Sessions’ test are below: Question 1: How would you vote (or how did you vote) on   and would you support or oppose advancing a final trade agreement which enters the United States into a new international commission with binding authority on future United States trade policy? ANSWER: I was steadfastly opposed to giving Obama his   powers, and would have absolutely voted against it. This is one of the strongest distinctions between me and the other candidates in this race.  The Congress, apparently under the magical spell of donors, gave massive new powers to a President who has repeatedly abused his authority.  The other candidates in this race actually fought on Obama’s side to give him more power to abuse. As for creating a new international commission with authority over United States trade policy I am, again, steadfastly opposed.  No foreign power should be given any control over the United States.  Yet the other candidates who supported Fast Track allowed President Obama to do just that.  It’s not too late to save our sovereignty: when I win the nomination, I will put America back in charge. Question 2: If the vote on the   Partnership were held today, and you had a vote to cast in Congress, would you vote for it or against it? ANSWER: I have strongly and consistently opposed the TPP.  For decades, I have warned about how our terrible trade deals are killing the middle class.  We are getting taken to the cleaners.  My message on trade has been consistent from the beginning, and if politicians had listened to me years ago we would have saved millions of jobs, rebuilt our crumbling infrastructure, and saved trillions of dollars. My candidacy is the only way to stop this terrible deal that will send our manufacturing  —   including our auto manufacturing  —   overseas. TPP allows foreign countries to cheat by manipulating their currency, making it impossible for American companies to fairly compete.  Yet other candidates in this race have voted in favor of the currency manipulation that is killing our middle class. What our incompetent leaders don’t understand is that the United States holds all the cards.  Other countries need access to our markets.  Yet we refuse to use that leverage, and we negotiate one terrible   deal after another.  We buy from other countries, but they refuse to buy from us. Under my Administration, we are bringing these jobs back to America.  No more   deals. Stopping the TPP is a matter of economic security and national security.  When I am the nominee, I will stop Obamatrade in its tracks and bring millions of new voters into our party  —   putting new states in play in the general election. Question 3: Upon entering office, will you promptly and unconditionally terminate and rescind all of President Obama’s illegal executive amnesties  —   which provide work permits and entitlements to illegal aliens  —   including President Obama’s first executive amnesty in 2012, which remains in effect? ANSWER: I will immediately cancel both of President Obama’s illegal executive amnesties, and all other unconstitutional executive orders.  After my inauguration, for the first time in decades, Americans will wake up in a country where their immigration laws are enforced. Question 4: A supermajority of GOP voters say immigration is too high. Every year, on autopilot, we let in another one million immigrants on green cards, 700, 000 foreign guest workers, half a million foreign students, and 100, 000 refugees and asylees. Historical precedent would be to reduce   immigration, rather than continuing to surge it beyond all historical precedent. Will you support legislation to reduce immigration numbers, and will you oppose legislation that would add to the number? ANSWER: I will support legislation to reduce the numbers, and will oppose legislation to increase the numbers.  I have laid out a detailed plan to accomplish this goal on my website www. DonaldJTrump. com.  My suggested reforms include a requirement to give all open jobs to Americans first  —   instead of importing foreign replacements.  This plan will appeal to voters from all walks of life by making it easier for workers in this country to find jobs and support their families.  It will also help minority workers, youth, and previous immigrants who face intense job competition from waves of incoming foreign workers. I also proposed a temporary timeout on Muslim immigration until we can figure out what is going on and get our security situation under control. Question 5: Today, law enforcement are under increasing scrutiny and face excessive criticism from the political elites and the media, and are being targeted by criminals and terrorists. Meanwhile, since 2011, the federal prison population has declined by over 20, 000, and is on track to be at its lowest level since 2005. Since 2009, the total state prison population has dropped every year, and is over 56, 000 lower than it was then. These circumstances may have contributed to a nationwide spike in crime. The FBI recently reported an overall increase in violent crime and a 17 percent increase in homicides in the nation’s 50 largest cities. At the same time, the CDC reports that heroin and opioid drug overdoses have reached an   record high. Do you support efforts by President Obama and some Republicans in Congress to reduce penalties for   and further reduce the federal prison population, or do you think government should do more to keep drug traffickers off the streets? ANSWER: The way our cops are being treated is terrible, and our spineless politicians are not defending them.  Some politicians are mute, others are throwing fuel on the fire. Policing saves lives, especially in our poorest communities.  Policing makes schools safe, increases property values, encourages investment and job growth.  We must stop attacks on police.  I have been the only candidate with a clear message on this issue.  As for drug traffickers, they are wreaking havoc on our communities and I oppose efforts to reduce penalties for drug traffickers: we must do more to keep traffickers out of our neighborhoods. I have been   enforcement all of my life.  The American people are crying out for safer communities, and I will bring this message of supporting law enforcement and safe communities to a general election.  OO. ready( function()  ) })