 One of the most important initiatives of our organization, the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) and its Stop Islamization of America (SIOA) program  —   apart from the ad campaigns, First Amendment lawsuits, activism, etc.  —   is our work helping to safety those who are under the boot of the sharia. [I have forged an alliance with Aynaz Anni Cyrus, a brave human rights activist and former Muslim from the Islamic Republic of Iran, whose mission it is to bring hope and healing to those forced to live under Islamic rule. Anni is a rational voice in a world of madness.  In the wake of Barack Hussein Obama’s evil transfer of billions of dollars to the world’s leading state sponsor of terror, Iran has escalated its human rights abuses and unimaginable torture and oppression of those whom they consider to be enemies of Allah. Obama has emboldened, enriched and legitimized the world’s most aggressive criminal rogue state. He has unleashed a terrible evil on the world. One of the many victims of the evil regime in Tehran that Obama has done so much to aid is a young man named Afshin Sohrabzadeh. Afshin Sohrabzadeh is a    Iranian man and political prisoner. He was recently serving a   prison term in “internal exile” at a remote prison in the south of Iran, for alleged charges of “Moharebeh”  —   translated as “waging war against Allah”  —   which is considered a crime in Islamic law and a capital crime in the Islamic Republic of Iran. His offensive action was to support a Kurdish political party. Afshin reportedly experienced severe torture during his interrogation in prison by the Deputy Intelligence Service of Kamyaran. His nose was broken, he was given electroshock, and he was burned by metal sticks and raped. He is now reported to be vomiting blood and suffering from grave respiratory problems. Amnesty International also reported: “He was in urgent need of specialized medical treatment outside prison. He suffers from a   gastrointestinal condition, exacerbated by prolonged lack of adequate treatment. ” After much delay, some Iranian Human Rights organizations released a joint statement in support of Afshin. He finally received a   medical furlough on June 25, 2016 was extracted to a safe house at that point. There is a campaign designed as a rescue mission for Afshin, arranged by Live up to Freedom, founded by Aynaz Anni Cyrus: gofundme.  Afshin Sohrabzadeh is just one of innumerable victims of the bloody Islamic regime in Iran. Barack Obama should be made to answer for every one of them. Obama campaigned for the presidency in 2008 and 2012 on the “  promise to stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. ” An enormous bloody lie he told again and again and again. He grovels to Iran, Iran spits in his face and threatens America and her allies. So Obama grovels some more. Remember who Obama was dealing with: the world’s largest state sponsor of terror. Iran owns and operates the jihad terror group Hezb’Allah. Iran finances Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Iran partners with the Taliban. Iran was killing our soldiers in Iraq. Iran backs the Shi’ite Houthis in Yemen. Iran is the head of the snake and Obama made them a regional power. And what did it get us? A newly aggressive Iran, along with the ever more frequent jihad massacres all over the West, is Obama’s legacy. He has emboldened and empowered Iran, and made it not a friend of the US, but more aggressive and bellicose toward the US than it has ever been. The full consequences of Obama’s disastrous Iran deal will not be felt until he is out of the White House. But they will be felt. That is all the more reason why we must step up and do all we can to aid the victims of Iran: we know the United States government isn’t lifting a finger to help them. Afshin Sohrabzadeh is just one of the many victims of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Please do what you can to help him. Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.  