Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • A South Korean court ousted President Park   from office, a first in the nation’s history that could reshape the strategic landscape in Asia. Hundreds of thousands of South Koreans had taken to the streets in recent months to protest a sprawling corruption scandal that reached the presidency. Her downfall is expected to shift South Korean politics to the opposition on the left, whose leaders want more engagement with North Korea. Five executives at Samsung, including its de facto leader, Lee   denied bribery charges in a related case on Thursday. _____ • Russia deployed a prohibited cruise missile, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff told the U. S. Congress. It was the first public confirmation that the Kremlin had violated a landmark arms control agreement. _____ • The U. S. is sending an additional 400 troops to Syria, nearly doubling the American forces deployment there. A spokesman for the U. S.  command said the move was intended to support preparations for an assault on Raqqa, which the Islamic State claims as its capital. _____ • The founder of WikiLeaks, Julian Assange, moved to seize the moment after his organization released a new trove of classified information about the C. I. A. ’s cyberweaponry. Speaking from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he has sought refuge since 2012, Mr. Assange presented himself as a defender of some of the biggest American technology companies against their own government. The C. I. A. described Mr. Assange as “not exactly a bastion of truth and integrity. ” _____ • Malaysia welcomed back two citizens who were allowed to leave North Korea, leaving nine Malaysian embassy workers and family members there as the countries continued to wrangle over the assassination of Kim  . Regional tensions set off by North Korea’s provocations are rising. A wave of   Korean sentiment has broken out across China in response to the South’s embrace of a U. S. missile defense system that Beijing sees as a security threat. Above, police officers outside a South Korean market in Beijing. _____ • In Australia, the arrest of a Lebanese Muslim accused of using the internet to try to help the Islamic State develop a guided missile has stoked fears of homegrown terrorism and intensified the country’s debate over immigration policy. Above, the suspect’s house in the small rural town of Young. • China granted preliminary approval for more than two dozen new trademarks to President Trump, which could add to criticism over potential conflicts of interest. • The European Central Bank held  monetary policy steady, but faces growing pressure to begin the politically charged task of drawing years of stimulus to a close. • The chief executive of the global insurance giant A. I. G. will resign after a $3 billion   loss. • Britain could be fined more than $2 billion after investigators found that British customs  allowed undervalued  Chinese goods a portal to flood into Europe. • Nike unveiled a stretchy   hijab that it will begin selling in 2018, aiming to appeal to the growing ranks of female athletes in the Middle East. • Gold is on its longest slide since October. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, accused Germany of using “Nazi practices” to block him from campaigning among Turkish émigrés ahead of an April referendum on a new Constitution. [The New York Times] • In Washington,  two House committees held marathon sessions and approved Republican legislation to undo the Affordable Care Act. [The New York Times] • Israeli lawmakers advanced a bill to curb the use of loudspeakers to broadcast the Muslim call to prayer. [The New York Times] • Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines will launch joint naval patrols in a sea lane preyed on by pirates, including Abu Sayyaf militants. [Al Jazeera] • Radioactive boars are making it difficult for residents of the   Fukushima region in northern Japan to return home. [The New York Times] • A   study of turtles in dozens of Chinese conservation areas warned of pervasive   poaching of species valuable for food or trade. [Science] • As part of a media blitz surrounding China’s major legislative meetings, the state news media released an animated rap video about the “six things close to Xi Jinping’s heart. ” [SupChina for lyrics Xinhuanet for video] • Prefer cold brew coffee? Here’s how to do it right. • Recipe of the day: Treat yourself to the comfort of Swedish meatloaf and caramelized cabbage. • Want to get in tune with today’s music? Here’s a curated   playlist featuring Future, Adele, Mitski (above) and more, with essays by some of our best culture writers. • Is religious pluralism over in Indonesia? A   sentence for an Indonesian who regards himself as the son of God was the latest in the   country’s crackdown on new religious movements. • And watch, in this interactive graphic, how spring weather rushed in more than three weeks early in parts of the U. S. Research shows a strong link to climate change. In this age of   and Amazon, it might be surprising that an American   book business started nine decades ago is still supplying readers with literary selections. Before   lists and   bookstores, the Book of the Month Club tried to steer a growing middle class to the “right” books. Having such titles in the home became a sign of status. In March 1926, “Lolly Willowes” by the British author Sylvia Townsend Warner was gaining acclaim, and a month later it became the club’s inaugural pick. Famously, a panel of literary experts made the choices over lunch and sherry around an oak table. Their credibility built the fledgling club’s membership. They had hits like “Gone With the Wind” and “The Catcher in the Rye. ” One miss was “The Grapes of Wrath. ” While critics viewed the club as middlebrow, it became a powerful literary institution in the U. S. Its influence diminished with the spread of bookstore chains in the 1980s, and further declined with online bookselling. But some of us still want to be guided by their judges. As an early club brochure said, “What a deprivation it is to miss reading an important new book at a time when everyone else is reading and discussing it. ” Adeel Hassan contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.  What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.