WASHINGTON (AP)  —   The “stamina,” the “look”: A new poll suggests voters are buying into Donald Trump’s insinuations about Hillary Clinton’s health. They’re ignoring the medical reports.  Voters  —   especially men  —   have more confidence that Trump is healthy enough for the presidency than Clinton, according to the Associated   poll. It’s a disconnect considering Clinton has released more medical information than Trump, and that outside doctors who’ve looked at the available data say both candidates seem fine. But it shows the political points Trump scored after the Democratic nominee’s   mild case of pneumonia. Another gender divide: Nearly half of women but just 4 in 10 men think Clinton’s health is getting too much attention, found the poll, which was taken before the presidential candidates’ debate on Monday. “Everybody gets sick,” said Sherri Smart, 56, of New York. She said she hasn’t decided who to vote for but wishes the candidates would discuss issues instead of sniping about who’s most vigorous. “What’s important is, what are you going to do for me?” Smart said. The   poll found 51 percent of voters are very or extremely confident that Trump is healthy enough to be president. In contrast, just over a third of voters  —   36 percent  —   had the same confidence in Clinton’s health. Men are more likely to question Clinton’s physical fitness for the job, with 45 percent saying they’re only slightly or not at all confident compared to 34 percent of women. Men and women are about equally likely to express confidence in Trump’s health. More Democrats are confident of Trump’s health than Republicans are of Clinton’s. Health is a legitimate issue as the nation is poised to elect one of its oldest presidents. Trump, 70, for months held off disclosing much about his own fitness while stoking questions about a woman in the White House with his assertion, repeated on national TV Monday, that Clinton lacks the look and stamina for the job. (As for his apparent sniffles during Monday’s debate, he blamed a bad microphone.) “Stamina is a code word for maybe not physically up to the job,” said New York University bioethicist Arthur Caplan, who has called for an independent panel to certify the health of presidential candidates. “There’s something of a bias about men versus women that subtly Trump has played to, that men are more fit, tough enough to do the job. ” Clinton, 68, last year released more detail about her own health history only to buy trouble earlier this month by refusing to take a sick day until a public stumble forced her to reveal the pneumonia diagnosis. But Monday she rebutted Trump’s talk of stamina by wondering if he could match her grueling schedule as a secretary of state  —   traveling to 112 countries, negotiating peace deals, spending 11 hours testifying before a congressional committee. What exactly do we know about their health? Neither has released their actual medical records, just a summary from their personal physicians with no way to know if anything important was left out. Yet another disconnect: The   poll found nearly 4 in 10 voters don’t consider such a release important, and another 2 in 10 say it’s only moderately important. Trump’s gastroenterologist in December released a   letter saying the GOP nominee would be “the healthiest individual ever elected. ” Earlier this month, Trump took to “The Dr. Oz Show” to say he felt great, while releasing a bit more detail, such as his cholesterol levels and cancer screenings. Bottom line: Trump takes a   statin medication and a baby aspirin, has some mild plaque in his arteries and is overweight  —   but was declared generally in good health. Last summer, Clinton’s internist released a   letter detailing her family history, prior exams including lab test results, and some prior ailments that have healed  —   including a 2012 concussion and blood clot Clinton suffered after becoming dehydrated from a stomach virus and fainting. This month, a second letter outlined the mild pneumonia and revealed some updated   results. Bottom line: Clinton takes a blood thinner as a precaution given a history of blood clots, as well as a thyroid medication and allergy relievers  —   but also was declared generally in good health. Some doctors say just watching how the candidates handle a physically demanding campaign trail and the cognitive finesse needed to debate can give voters a good idea of health. But while the public may not pay attention to cholesterol tests and EKGs, it was hard to miss that image of Clinton stumbling. “The public is feeding off the impressions they’ve received, but that’s not borne out by the letters of health,” said Dr. Howard Selinger, chair of family medicine at Quinnipiac University. ___, The   Poll of 1, 694 adults, including 1, 476 registered voters, was conducted online Sept.   using a sample drawn from GfK’s   KnowledgePanel, which is designed to be representative of the U. S. population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 2. 5 percentage points, and for registered voters is plus or minus 2. 7 percentage points. Respondents were first selected randomly using telephone or mail survey methods and later interviewed online. People selected for KnowledgePanel who didn’t have access to the internet were provided access for free.   Poll results: 