During a Halloween night speech in Cincinnati, Ohio, Hillary Clinton blasted Donald Trump as a sellout to the “gun lobby. ”[Clinton made this push as two of the biggest names in the gun control lobby, Gabby Giffords and Mark Kelly, sat on a stage behind her.  According to the Hill, Clinton said, “Donald Trump won’t stand up to the gun lobby. He sold out to them. I will stand up to them as president. ” She continued, “The gun lobby is spending more on ads to get Donald Trump elected more than any other group. ” Clinton’s criticism of Trump and the “gun lobby” brings added attention to the stark contrast that exists between her   Amendment positions and Trump’s   platform. Trump has been emphasizing these differences throughout the campaign, especially seizing on her plans to use the Supreme Court to abolish the Second Amendment versus his plan to nominate justices who will save gun rights for generations. Trump has pointedly indicated he is running to save the Second Amendment from “people like Hillary Clinton. ” During the October 9 presidential debate, he stressed: I am looking to appoint judges very much in the mold of Justice Scalia.   …     People that will respect the Constitution of the United States. And I think that this is so important —  also, the Second Amendment which is totally under siege by people like Hillary Clinton. And far from fleeing from identification with the “gun lobby,” Trump has embraced the NRA and repeatedly espoused pride that they endorsed him very early in the campaign season —  on May 20. Moreover, Trump is a life member of the NRA. Trump is a concealed carry permit holder and is opposed to the new gun controls Clinton, Giffords, and Kelly were pushing in Ohio, none of which would have stopped one mass shooting or mass public attack in recent memory. Clinton, Giffords, and Kelly’s predominate push is for more background checks in more places. Missing from such a campaign is an admission that the man who tried to assassinate Giffords on January 8, 2011, acquired his gun via a background check. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.