Fond of referring to   Republicans as telling “lies” about “women’s healthcare”  —   aka “abortion”  —   Planned Parenthood Action Fund’s executive vice president reveals in a statement about Carly Fiorina’s decision to endorse Ted Cruz that it is Cruz himself who the nation’s top abortion biz believes is “the biggest liar in the room” when it comes to “women’s health. ”[”Like a moth to flame, @CarlyFiorina continues to gravitate toward the biggest liar in the room.”  —  @dawnlaguens https:  .   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) March 9, 2016,   Leftwing media ThinkProgress (TP) reports the statement by Dawn Laguens regarding former GOP candidate Fiorina’s endorsement of Cruz: Like a moth to the flame, Carly Fiorina continues to gravitate toward the biggest liar in the room. Fiorina spent her whole campaign lying about Planned Parenthood, embarrassingly ignoring fact checker after fact checker, and leading to a   drop in the polls. It’s no surprise she endorsed Ted Cruz. Together, they have created an echo chamber of lies that very seriously threatens the health and   of women in this country. Planned Parenthood’s worst enemy just endorsed Ted Cruz https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   ThinkProgress (@thinkprogress) March 9, 2016,  TP picked up on the theme, with Emily Atkin writing that Fiorina  —   “Planned Parenthood’s worst enemy”  —   has endorsed Cruz. It really bugs Planned Parenthood, NARAL, and   media to see a conservative,   woman garner media attention. In their view, women are supposed to be   and continue the narrative that “abortion is women’s healthcare. ” ”Like a moth to flame, @CarlyFiorina continues to gravitate toward the biggest liar in the room.”  —  @dawnlaguens https:  .   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) March 9, 2016,  Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright even told women last month who were planning to vote for Sen. Bernie Sanders ( ) over Hillary Clinton there is a “special place in hell” for them. “I see a lot of young women in this audience. And you that are here cheering understand this,” Albright said. “There is some few I heard somewhere out there that don’t understand the importance of why young women have to support Hillary Clinton. The story is not over. They are going to want to push us back. Appointments to the Supreme Court make all the difference. ” “The left has had this fiction that somehow if you’re   you’re against women,” Fiorina said at the March for Life in January, adding: They’ve peddled the fiction that Planned Parenthood is all about women’s health, when, really, it’s all about abortion. And, so, I think it’s important that we stand up and say, “Conservative women exist”  —   let’s just start with that  —   and, secondly, that “We care for women and for unborn life. And they go hand in hand. ” TP continues about Planned Parenthood’s apparent nemesis: During her campaign, Fiorina repeatedly hurled aggressive attacks toward the women’s health organization, which she accused of selling fetal body parts for profit. During her most   debate performance, Fiorina said sting videos at the organization showed an aborted fetus kept alive to “harvest its brain. ”   websites, however, countered that this was untrue, and a grand jury declined to indict the organization. The grand jury did, however, indict the people who produced the sting videos for tampering with government evidence. As Breitbart News reported, however, the “ ” ended up on Fiorina’s side. Gregg Cunningham of Center for   Reform wrote, Fiorina was “immediately and predictably attacked by medical ‘experts’ who accused her  …     of fraud. ” Another panel of experts consulted by Cunningham found that Fiorina was “right on the facts, right on the law, and right on the issues of human decency. ” Mollie Hemingway  —   writing at The Federalist  —   also weighed in on Fiorina’s comments during the CNN debate: As for Fiorina’s quote, she is likely referring to the entirety of the 10 videos, including the seventh video released by the Center for Medical Progress. Watch the full video for yourself. It does, in fact, show a fully formed fetus, heart beating and legs kicking. And it shows this while Holly O’Donnell, a former organ harvester who worked for StemExpress at a Planned Parenthood affiliate, graphically discuss the harvesting of a brain from a baby whose heart was beating. Regarding the indictment of Center for Medical Progress project lead David Daleiden and his colleague Sandra Merrit, under suspicion of bias, Harris County, Texas District Attorney Devon Anderson convened a grand jury that cleared Planned Parenthood of any wrongdoing in the video exposé and, instead, indicted Daleiden and Merrit. Ironically, two   law professors wrote that the indictment of the investigative journalists amounted to “a stunning act of legal jujitsu” and was a “deeply disturbing” outcome both for the First Amendment and undercover citizen journalists attempting to expose corruption. Though Planned Parenthood has denied any wrongdoing in its sale of body parts, the abortion business also released a statement in October announcing it will no longer accept payments for aborted fetal tissue. The abortion business and its leftwing media supporters also continue to insist the videos, produced by CMP, were “deceptively edited. ” However, a Democrat opposition research firm named Fusion  —   hired by Planned Parenthood to review the videos  —   said while their analysts observed the videos had been edited, “the analysis did not reveal widespread evidence of substantive video manipulation. ” Additionally, Fusion noted, “[A]nalysts found no evidence that CMP inserted dialogue not spoken by Planned Parenthood staff. ” An analysis by Coalfire, a   forensics company hired by Alliance Defending Freedom, found that the videos were “not manipulated” and that they are “authentic. ” Fiorina  —   then still a 2016 candidate  —   told Breitbart News at the March for Life rally, “We have to elect a   president. ” “I would hope we could finally get the   Unborn Child Protection Act passed and through the White House because the American people have found common ground on that issue,” she said. “The majority of men, of women, of young people all agree   abortion after 20 weeks is wrong, so let’s go take that common ground. ” Fiorina also noted that Hillary Clinton had doubled down on her support of abortion after her endorsement by Planned Parenthood. “I think it demonstrates what we’ve always known  —   Planned Parenthood is a political operation,” she said, adding: They funnel millions of dollars to   candidates year after year after year. I say to women who are   just think about it this way  —   is it fair that taxpayers fund a political operation? Of course, it’s not fair. So, I think Hillary Clinton is getting the endorsement of a political operation as we expected. The abortion industry and the Democrat Party are essentially in a fully   relationship, and both have much power and financial gain on the chopping block. Clinton, the Washington Free Beacon reports, has “paid Planned Parenthood thousands of dollars using campaign funds. ” Four separate payments from Clinton’s campaign were received by the nation’s top abortion business as “reimbursements for ‘staff time’” for get out the vote efforts against rival Sanders. And the feeling is apparently mutual. “Clinton received financial support from the organization, collecting more than $20, 000 from executives and employees of the national organization and its regional affiliates —  20 times more money than the rest of the presidential field combined,” the report states. Additionally, all six of the Democrats on the House’s select panel investigating the fetal tissue practices of Planned Parenthood received contributions to their campaigns from the abortion business. In endorsing Cruz, Fiorina posted on Facebook: [H]ere’s something I’ve learned throughout my career: if you are a real leader, you absolutely must challenge the status quo. And when you challenge the status quo, you make enemies. It’s the price of leadership. And that price is one too many people aren’t willing to pay, and so they don’t lead. Ted Cruz has made enemies by taking on the political class. They’re scared we found our guy. I ran for President because I believe it is time to take our country back —  and I still believe that. I still believe we need a candidate who will stand for conservative principles. A nominee who will never settle for the status quo, and who will unite us as Republicans. It is time for us to unite behind Ted Cruz.