Donald Trump has lost the Harvard Republican Club. [In a statement published to the group’s Facebook page Thursday, the club’s student leaders declare: “Donald Trump holds views that are antithetical to our values not only as Republicans, but as Americans. ”  The post notes that the club will not be endorsing the Republican nominee for the first time in 128 years. They go on to argue: The rhetoric he espouses  —  from racist slander to misogynistic taunts —   is not consistent with our conservative principles, and his repeated mocking of the disabled and belittling of the sacrifices made by prisoners of war, Gold Star families, and Purple Heart recipients is not only bad politics, but absurdly cruel. If enacted, Donald Trump’s platform would endanger our security both at home and abroad. Domestically, his protectionist trade policies and draconian immigration restrictions would enlarge our federal deficit, raise prices for consumers, and throw our economy back into recession. Trump’s global outlook, steeped in isolationism, is considerably    with the traditional Republican stance as well. The Harvard Republicans also accuse Trump of “Calling for the US’ withdrawal from NATO and actively endorsing nuclear proliferation,” although Trump has not actually made those proposals. The post continues: Perhaps most importantly, however, Donald Trump simply does not possess the temperament and character necessary to lead the United States through an increasingly perilous world. He hopes to divide us by race, by class, and by religion, instilling enough fear and anxiety to propel himself to the White House. He is looking to to pit neighbor against neighbor, friend against friend, American against American. We will not stand for this vitriolic rhetoric that is poisoning our country and our children. It is not clear how many children the members of the Harvard Republican Club, who are all undergraduates, are raising. One term that does not appear anywhere in the post: “Hillary Clinton. ” And another: “Democrats. ” Read the full post on Facebook. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.