LONDON  —   The actor Samuel L. Jackson has sidled into a debate about the roles for black actors on both sides of the Atlantic. In an interview with the radio station Hot 97 posted online on Monday, Mr. Jackson questioned the casting of the black British actor Daniel Kaluuya in the   film “Get Out,” about a black American’s encounter with his white girlfriend’s creepy family. Mr. Jackson suggested that “an American brother” might have brought a deeper perspective to the role, and suggested that black Britons had endured less racism than  . He noted that British actors often secured American roles because they are less well known and therefore paid less, and because many of them are valued for their classical training. Jordan Peele, the writer and director of “Get Out,” has acknowledged that he was hesitant to cast a British actor, given that the film focuses on the   experience. Mr. Jackson said on Wednesday that his intention had been to comment on Hollywood, not to “slam” Mr. Kaluuya. And while his comments have been criticized by many black commentators  —   American and British  —   some British performers do seem to find it easier to get roles in the United States than at home. Here is what some British minority actors who have worked in the United States have said about the issue. Mr. Boyega, who is from South London, plays Finn in “Star Wars: The Force Awakens. ” While the role is not American per se, given that the film unfolds in a distant galaxy, Finn speaks with an entirely convincing American accent. In a tweet on Tuesday, Mr. Boyega appeared to dismiss Mr. Jackson’s comments: “Black brits vs African American,” he wrote, saying that the conflict was “stupid” and one “we don’t have time for. ” It’s not just black British actors who have found success in the United States. Mr. Ahmed, a British actor of Pakistani descent, has slipped into several American roles, including the lead character, Nasir, on HBO’s series “The Night Of,” and a philandering surfing instructor on “Girls,” also on HBO. He recently addressed Parliament about a lack and misrepresentation of minority characters in the arts, suggesting that the problem might even be driving young Britons toward extremist beliefs. “We end up going to America to find work,” Mr. Ahmed said. “I meet with producers and directors here and they say, ‘We don’t have anything for you all our stories are set in Cornwall in the 1600s. ’” Ms. Harris, who plays Paula, the   mother of the lead character, Chiron, in the   “Moonlight,” is from London. She had to film her scenes in the movie in just three days, because of issues securing a visa to the United States. “I definitely think that for my career to have continued I definitely had to go to America, and I’m really glad that I did there is just a lot more material,” Ms. Harris told reporters at the premiere of “Moonlight” at the London Film Festival last year. Mr. Ejiofor portrayed Solomon Northup, a free   who was abducted and enslaved in the   century. He has made an acting career with a foot on both sides of the Atlantic. In a 2015 interview with Time Out, he seemed to shy from discussion of the role race had played in his career, but suggested that the notable success that British actors of all races have enjoyed in the United States may have to do with different career expectations. “We all wanted to be theater actors,” he said of his fellow Britons. “It’s less glamorous much more about the work. You have to get on with it. You have to know when something’s not working. And you have to hone your craft. Maybe that gives us an advantage. ” Mr. Oyelowo, who is based in the United States, toiled in smaller roles before landing the part of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the 2014   drama “Selma. ” In a speech on diversity in London last year, Mr. Oyelowo pleaded with members of the British film industry to create more roles for minorities in Britain, noting that many actors felt obliged to move to the United States. “Please stop this talent drain,” he said. “You have to change the demographics of the people who are making these decisions. ” Mr. Elba grew up in London and broke into the American market with his starring role as the Baltimore drug lord Stringer Bell on HBO’s “The Wire. ” In an address to Parliament last year, Mr. Elba called on media representatives to make more room for minorities. “The Britain I come from is the most successful, diverse, multicultural country on Earth,” Mr. Elba said. “But here’s my point: You wouldn’t know it if you turned on the TV. ” Sophie Okonedo described herself as a Jewish, Nigerian Brit when accepting her 2014 Tony Award for playing the   character Ruth Winger in “A Raisin in the Sun” on Broadway. She told The Guardian in 2014 that she saw far more opportunities for roles in the United States than in Britain. “I do notice that  —   over the last year  —   I’ve had maybe two scripts from England and tens and tens from America,” she said. “The balance is ridiculous. ”