A     company with an obvious name is seeing record sales of its signature item after a spate of assaults on female joggers.[  Austin outfit Booby Trap Bras claims that it has seen an 80 percent increase in sales due to recent violent attacks against female joggers in central Texas and other states. The company’s product line launched in 2015 offering a variety of sports bras and athleisure garments with varying price points, according to WFAA.  The signature item contains a    “knife sheath” layered into the garment, made of nylon neoprene with a magnet affixed to keep a   concealed weapon contained with easy access in the case of an emerging threat. “The fact is, you just don’t have time to dig in the bottom of your purse when someone is already posing a threat,” the company’s website notes in its marketing materials. Five different colors of the sports bra are currently offered, retailing between $50 and $55 apiece. The clothing company also offers a “Mommy and Me” kit with matching tops and yoga pants for young girls, equipped with a similar storage compartment. Though no garment comes with a concealable weapon or security device included, the company does offer a selection of options on its site. A small knife to be gripped with a middle and ring finger is widely promoted yet   mace sprays and a 2, 400, 000 volt “Center Fire” stun gun are options as well. Booby Trap Bras founder Jennifer Cutrona drew her company’s inspiration from an attack she endured while exercising one day. “I walked around thinking life was all rainbows and butterflies until I was jumped out at on a local running trail,” she wrote. “The little pocket knives I had collected over the years were all at home in the drawer with my pepper spray. I needed something I could pull in less than a second. ” The company’s motto, “Stay safe. Stay active,” hopes to inspire customers to not lose sight of their fitness goals out of fear that someone might attack them while unprepared. Booby Trap Bras promises to donate portions of its profits to charities in need. Logan Churchwell is the Assistant Editor and a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. You can follow him on Twitter @LCChurchwell.