(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The Trump administration ordered 46 holdover U. S. attorneys to quit, including the powerful Manhattan prosecutor Preet Bharara. The firings were a surprise  —   especially for Mr. Bharara, who has a reputation for prosecuting public corruption cases. He met with Mr. Trump in November and had expected to stay on. _____ 2. The president has been noticeably less accessible since his tweets last weekend accusing former President Obama of bugging Trump Tower. He and his team did hastily take to Twitter to celebrate the latest jobs report, which showed the U. S. economy added 235, 000 jobs in February. That sets the stage for the Fed to raise interest rates. As a candidate, Mr. Trump had dismissed the regular Labor Department reports as phony. In a televised briefing, Press Secretary Sean Spicer said that the report “may have been phony in the past, but it’s very real now. ” _____ 3. Mr. Spicer also faced questions on the latest revelations about Michael T. Flynn, who was briefly Mr. Trump’s national security adviser. According to newly filed disclosure forms, Mr. Flynn earned more than $500, 000 representing the interests of Turkey’s government during the campaign. Mr. Flynn filed the papers retroactively to “eliminate any potential doubt” about the propriety of his actions, his lawyer wrote to the Justice Department. _____ 4. Customs and Border Protection says the number of people caught trying to enter the United States illegally from Mexico fell in February to the lowest level in five years. The Trump administration called the sharp decline a sign that its promise to strengthen border security was discouraging people from trying to cross. But the dire economic and safety conditions that drive people from their homes have not changed. We met some of the migrants at shelters along the border. “I have nothing to go back to,” said a Honduran man who fled after he was attacked with a machete. “And I don’t know if there’s anything for me on the other side. ” _____ 5. Protests erupted in South Korea after the country’s Constitutional Court announced it was removing President Park   from office. The ruling capped months of turmoil for a country that has been gripped by the corruption scandal that brought her down. Who will succeed Ms. Park? It may be the candidate of the liberal opposition, Moon   who wants to reset relations with the North. _____ 6. In California, reservoirs are overflowing and dams are under siege after a surprisingly wet winter. But the state is still in a drought state of emergency. That will probably end in about six weeks, but this year may only be a wet outlier in a long dry spell. _____ 7. The Kremlin plans to sit out the 100th anniversary of the Russian Revolution. There will be no national holiday on March 12, the date generally recognized as the start of the uprising. The official reason is that Russia remains too divided over the consequences of that fateful year. Some analysts say the more likely reason is that President Vladimir V. Putin loathes the very idea of revolution. _____ 8. Volkswagen pleaded guilty in a Detroit courtroom to federal charges stemming from a scheme to equip cars with software to cheat emissions tests. The plea, part of a   settlement, was a big step toward resolving the automaker’s legal problems in the U. S. But in Europe, where there are far more diesel owners, its troubles may be just beginning. _____ 9. The owners of a popular Washington wine bar sued the president, claiming restaurants in his hotel in the Old Post Office enjoy an unfair business advantage. They claim their business has suffered as diplomats and politicians patronize Trump establishments to curry favor with the Oval Office. The suit doesn’t seek damages but says that to resolve the issue, the hotel could close, the Trump family could divest or the president could resign. The Trump Organization called it “a wild publicity stunt completely lacking in legal merit. ” _____ 10. We take you inside the eerie ghost towns around Fukushima, Japan, where an earthquake and tsunami caused a meltdown at a nuclear plant six years ago. To this day, few have returned. Evidence of sudden flight is everywhere, under a caking of dust. _____ 11. Finally, if screen time’s on your weekend agenda, here are some ideas. After years in storage, the mighty ape with the big teeth and the thing for pale blondes has been dusted off and digitally turbocharged for “Kong: Skull Island,” our critic writes, adding that the film “deploys   feints and   frights capably amid its clichés. ” If you’re watching at home, here are our picks to stream. And in our daily roundup of the best of   comedy, Jimmy Kimmel has a budget proposal: put video of Mr. Trump’s dinner with Ted Cruz on   . Then there’s the video that it seemed everyone was watching today: Invasion of the Toddlers, in which young children crash a political scientist’s Skype interview with the BBC on South Korea. In that spirit, here are 11 great stories from around the internet that have nothing to do with politics. Have a great weekend. Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.