When Breitbart News Daily host Stephen K. Bannon asked bestselling author, host of LevinTV, and radio commentator Mark Levin about his choice for president today during an interview on SiriusXM, Levin made the point that he isn’t allowed to formally endorse anyone. [Said Levin, “I think when you go into the  place to vote   …     you have to decide, from my point of view, what I’ve said on the air repeatedly is, who is the most conservative candidate, because at this point, that’s what we need. And as you know Steve, I don’t even think that’s enough. That’s why I support an Article Five  —   Convention of States. ”  Levin went on: My attitude  is, we do the best we can at the national level  —   the federal level  —   we get the most Conservative person we can in the Presidency. But as I wrote in The Liberty Amendments, that’s not going to be even close to enough because the bureaucracy runs amok. I don’t care who the President is. Almost   of the judges on the Courts today were appointed by Obama. That is a disaster. Congress is a joke. So, we need to take our power back, rather than   it. What we need to do is take the power back. Levin was on to also discuss the launch of his latest effort  —   LevinTV. As he noted in a previous interview: “I have the greatest audience in the world and I give them my best every night,” Levin said in a statement. “I am thrilled we are expanding our Town Hall meeting place for patriots, by taking TV broadcasting to a new level on multiple platforms where I will speak directly to my audience  —   uncensored, without middlemen, and commercial free. ” Levin added, “I make no excuses for my patriotism, I am proud of it, and LevinTV will reflect it. It’s about time there is a place on television where people can go and have their principles, beliefs, and values reinforced rather than attacked. ” The entire Breitbart News Daily interview with Levin can be heard below: Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot Ch. 125 weekdays from 6 AM to 9 AM EST.