Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump has released the first details about the   event he’s producing instead of attending the presidential debate arranged by Fox News and Google. [The 8. 00 p. m. Thursday event will take place at Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa. The event will raise funds for veterans’ organizations.  Trump announced Tuesday evening that he would not participate in Thursday’s Fox News debate. According to Washington Post reporter Robert Costa, Trump’s campaign says they have reached out to “all major networks” to carry the event live. Lewandowski tonight says the campaign has invited “all major networks” to carry Trump’s Thursday event live,  —   Robert Costa (@costareports) January 27, 2016, UPDATE: In a CNN interview with Erin Burnett, Trump’s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski gave out more details on the forthcoming event at Drake University. “As you know we just put out a statement that says Mr. Trump is going to be at Drake University tomorrow night at 9 p. m. eastern and we’re going to raise money for the veterans of our great country who are treated like   citizens,” Lewandowski told Burnett. “We’ve got a full program. We’ve got hundreds of media credentialed people who are going to be there to hopefully cover Mr. Trump’s event. We’ll take care of our veterans because our country isn’t doing that. The VA is a disaster and it’s time to put those people first so that is what we’ll be doing tomorrow night at 9 p. m. eastern as opposed to participating in the Fox News debate. ” Lewandowski added that he hopes most media outlets carry Trump’s veterans event live. “It’s open the media and obviously as all of Mr. Trump’s speeches are if the networks choose to come and cover that we obviously would welcome that opportunity,” Lewandowski said. “It’s open. If they want to live feed or live stream that, they’re welcome to do that as they do many of his speeches. And I hope they will do that because I think the American people are going to look at that Fox News debate with that series of career politicians on that stage and say ‘you know what? This is not what we want. We want a leader. We want someone who is going to fix this.’ So why bother watching a debate which is all politicians who are all talk no action. ‘We’d rather watch a real leader in Donald Trump and what he’s going to talk about. ” 