World soccer’s governing body, FIFA, has barred Russia’s deputy prime minister, Vitaly Mutko, from seeking   to his position as a top executive of the organization. Mr. Mutko, Russia’s former sports minister who was implicated in the nation’s doping scandal, failed an eligibility check conducted by FIFA’s review committee. He will leave his position as a FIFA council member in the spring, the organization said, just as preparations for the 2018 World Cup in Russia intensify. In comments to Russian state news media on Friday, Mr. Mutko  —   who has been part of FIFA’s governing board since 2009  —   attributed the body’s decision to a new stipulation that top executives be politically neutral. He said he would not appeal the ruling. “I wanted to be ” Mr. Mutko told Tass, the state news agency. “As far as our stance and preparations for the World Cup finals are concerned, the committee’s decision has no bearing on that. ” Mr. Mutko, who is also the president of Russia’s soccer association, has led the 2018 Russia World Cup organizing committee since 2011. He and the Russian Sports Ministry he led faced enormous scrutiny last summer ahead of the Rio Olympics, when an investigation commissioned by the World   Agency concluded that the Russian government had for years facilitated steroid use by hundreds of the nation’s top athletes and carried out an elaborate   of   urine samples at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. Mr. Mutko was identified as having personally directed staff to cover up the drug violation of at least one soccer player. (FIFA’s review of the evidence against multiple soccer players implicated in the doping   is continuing, and the organization did not say whether its internal investigation also focused on Mr. Mutko.) As a result of those revelations, Mr. Mutko and all Russian government officials were barred from attending the Rio Games, and hundreds of Russian athletes were denied entry to the Olympics and Paralympics. In an interview in Moscow last year, Mr. Mutko told The New York Times that he appreciated the support of FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, amid the scandal. Mr. Mutko disputed that Russia had a   doping system, but he did not defend his deputy minister, who had been identified as a key architect of the cheating and was dismissed weeks later. President Vladimir V. Putin promoted Mr. Mutko to deputy prime minister from sports minister last October, installing a new sports minister to interact with global antidoping regulators. Regulators have cited Mr. Mutko’s removal from that role as a point of progress for Russia as the nation petitions to return to good standing in global sports. Early this month, Mr. Putin delivered his fullest acknowledgment yet of the scandal and Russia’s antidoping failures. In recent months, as Mr. Mutko maintained his role on FIFA’s executive council and sought   to one of four places reserved for European representatives, Mr. Infantino disputed reports that he had asked Mr. Mutko to resign. Apart from doping, FIFA, too, has battled recent scandal, with dozens of global soccer officials indicted in 2015 by the United States on an array of corruption charges, including money laundering, racketeering and wire fraud. American authorities have continued their investigation over the last year, along with an inquiry into the Russian doping scandal. The process of conducting background and integrity checks on executives like Mr. Mutko is a new practice for FIFA, enacted last year as part of a set of changes in response to the United States case. Mr. Mutko was the only one of six men not to pass the review. “Russia was not accused of anything to do with money laundering,” Mr. Mutko said in Moscow last year, emphasizing he had not been implicated in the United States indictment. “We never said we had no issues with doping. ”