Star Trek Beyond blasted off to a $60 million opening while the   Ghostbusters reboot fell off a cliff and The Secret Life of Pets continued to dominate in its third weekend at the box office. [It took two weekends to know for sure, but   Roadshow’s   Ghostbusters reboot bombed hard in its second weekend, taking in $6. 2M on Friday ( %) for an estimated   of $21 million and a total drop of around 55 percent. If estimates hold, that would put Ghostbusters‘   total at around $86 million, a disastrous result given the film’s $250 million price tag (after marketing costs).  Ghostbusters could still pull down $150 million in North America by the time it ends its domestic run, but the film is going to need really strong legs overseas to make a profit. There are two problems there, though: one, the film won’t play in China, the world’s   film market and two, no Paul   McCarthy movie has ever made more than $200 million overseas (and the Ghostbusters franchise is not a known quantity in many international markets). Analysts are split on how much Ghostbusters needs to earn to break even (observers say $350 million minimum) but either way, the film has its work cut out for it. Meanwhile, Paramount’s Star Trek Beyond led the weekend box office with an estimated $ $60 million weekend. That’s down roughly 14% from the opening of its predecessor Star Trek Into Darkness ($70. 2 million) according to Variety, but Paramount execs are probably in church this morning given how hostile summer moviegoers have been to sequels and reboots this year. With an A CinemaScore and a solid 84 percent Rotten Tomatoes rating, the film could get a boost from    and will need to if it is to recoup its approximate $185 million production budget. The film also launches in 37 international territories this weekend and should play well overseas.  ’s The Secret Life of Pets continued its dominance in its third frame with an estimated $28 million   tally and a likely   finish. If that estimate holds, Pets will have earned around $260 million in its first 17 days, not counting overseas receipts, which will push the film over $300 million this weekend, according to Forbes. Not too shabby for a film that cost just $75 million to make. Elsewhere, Ice Age: Collision Course  —   the fifth film in Fox’s animated franchise  —   took in an estimated $21 million at just under 4, 000 locations for a likely    place finish, while New Line’s horror thriller Lights Out outperformed expectations with an estimated $20. 4 million  . The   rated horror pic cost just $5 million to produce.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum