A Harris County deputy constable was shot multiple times in what is being reported as an “absolute ambush. ” The attack occurred late Wednesday night and the deputy went under immediate surgery to save his life. It is unknown at this time whether the deputy constable will survive. Deputy Constable Alden Clopton is reportedly an   veteran of the Constable’s office. [A man matching the description of the alleged shooter walked up to a Houston fire station and turned himself in, KHOU CBS11 reported. The man has not been arrested or charged but is being questioned by police at this time. The man was not injured when he turned himself in. It is not known at this time why he walked into the fire station.  UPDATE: ABC13 reported that Deputy Clopton’s surgery has been completed and he is recovering in the critical care unit. Doctors decided not to remove the bullets but treated his wounds. “We think he is going to be okay,” Constable May Walker told reporters. “He’s a strong guy. ” Deputy Clopton was struck by bullets four times in the back. Two additional shots entered Clopton’s vehicle and one round went into the ground, officials reported. Local ABC13 reports: “His family is obviously in shock,” says Holland Jones, spokesman for the Constable’s Office. “Hopefully his family’s prayers will be answered. ” Investigators say around 11:20pm a reserve deputy with Precinct 7 and a full time deputy were wrapping up a traffic stop on Alabama Street when someone opened fire on them. The full time deputy was standing beside the reserve deputy’s patrol car and several bullets hit that full time deputy. Local 740 KTRH reports: Deputy Constable identified as Alden Clopton according to Harris County Precinct Seven Constable’s Office spokesperson Pamela Greenwood, the deputy parked his patrol vehicle at the Alabama Store Market on Alabama and Briley, near the Texas Southern University campus around midnight after a traffic stop. He was leaning into the vehicle talking to a reserve deputy trainee in the passenger’s seat, when an unknown person approached from behind and shot him, she said. The deputy, who was not immediately identified, was shot six times in the side and back and was taken to Memorial Hermann Hospital and into surgery. Greenwood adds, the deputy has two bullets lodged in his abdomen, one near his heart.  It is unknown if the deputy will survive. This article will be updated as more information becomes available.