Talk radio host Mark Levin, who has endorsed Republican presidential candidate Texas Senator Ted Cruz, blasted the Fox News Channel as “not a news channel” and a “Donald Trump super PAC” that will be “rubbing their own faces in their own feces” after the GOP gets “our a**es kicked in the general election” on Tuesday.  Levin began by saying to the Fox News Channel, “You’re not a news channel anymore. You’re the Fox Channel. ” He then turned to that day’s tiff between Trump and Cruz, and criticized the FNC program “Outnumbered” for not giving the context of the fight between the two, that Trump had accused Cruz’s father of being linked to JFK assassin Lee Harvey Oswald. He further said that, according to a friend of his who contacted him,  another program, “The Five,” didn’t bring up Trump’s   Cruz theory until over 20 minutes past the hour. Levin continued, “Donald Trump is bringing up a National Enquirer story that accuses Ted Cruz’s father, Rafael Cruz, of being in cahoots, in one way or another, with Lee Harvey Oswald. ” Levin further stated that, according to his source, “several of the people on ‘The Five’ thought this was hilarious. As a matter of fact, they were defending the National Enquirer.   …     That’s why it’s not the Fox News Channel, it’s the Fox Channel, and the Donald Trump super PAC. ” He then stated, “They may be laughing today, but they’re going to be rubbing their own faces in their own feces, I’ll tell you that, after this general election, because they have humiliated themselves. ” Levin also criticized the “Fox  Friends” anchors for not challenging Trump’s   Cruz link based on a National Enquirer story. Levin also declared, “We’re going to get our a**es kicked in the general election, ladies and gentleman. That’s the trajectory. Maybe it’ll change, but likely, it will not. ” Levin elaborated that Trump’s comments about women, and the   theory wouldn’t play well, and that Trump was “limping” across the finish line to the nomination. He further criticized the media and Trump for preventing “the liberty message, the Constitution message, the conservative message, the Reagan principle message” from getting out. Levin concluded by sarcastically suggesting someone should pitch “Fox  Friends” a story that one of Trump’s relatives was seen with John Wilkes Booth. Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett