In the wake of a Black Lives Matter protest that turned deadly Thursday as an ambush on police in Dallas, Texas left five officers dead, and seven others critically wounded, video has emerged showing protesters taunting police officers standing guard in front of a gas station. [Some social media users took to Twitter to share footage of a local news report that showed what was reported as being 300 to 400 protesters dancing, shouting at, and flicking off uniformed police officers in the wake of the single deadliest day for law enforcement since September 11, 2001.  4 Cops Dead, 7 Cops Wounded and they’re dancing in front of police officers mocking them, WTF is this? #Dallas pic. twitter.   —   Jared Wyand (@JaredWyand) July 8, 2016,  This is disgusting  …     #BLM thugs flashing gang signs, laughing, and dancing  …    while officers mourn, Share this trash pic. twitter.   —   VOTE TRUMP 2016 (@USAforTrump2016) July 8, 2016,  The police were reportedly guarding the   in downtown Dallas after calls came in that the convenience store had been looted by protesters. The alleged looting occurred hours after several Dallas law enforcement officers were either killed or wounded, according to a timeline of the horrific events reported by Breitbart News. The first fatal shots were reported as earlier as 9:26 p. m. Thursday night, as a local Fox station reported protesters chanting “F*ck the Police” before shooting. A News 8 reporter said the protesters were “drunk” and some were suspected of stealing from the   prompting the massive police presence. The Youtube video below also appeared online, apparently showing the same local news coverage. This report is time stamped at 12:47 a. m. local Dallas time (1:47 a. m. ET) again, hours after the deadly police shootings occurred.  Another eyewitness told Fox New that some of the protesters were “taunting the officers and trying to start a disturbance. ” Live coverage of the coordinated ambush on police in Dallas, Texas is available from Breitbart News. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson