The new orders by the Obama Administration to release Haitians caught at the border will only exacerbate the current situation since Mexican cartels are now coaching illegal aliens on how to game the U. S. immigration system, Border Patrol agents said. [As Breitbart Texas reported, the current administration is moving to release hundreds of Haitians being held in detention centers in Arizona and California. The result of that release will be a new marketing tool for Mexican cartels and human smuggling organizations, said Hector Garza, National Border Patrol Council Local 2455 President during an exclusive interview with Breitbart Texas.  “They are being told that all they have to do is request asylum and claim to be in fear and they will be released,” said Garza who is a U. S. Border Patrol agent but is able to talk to the media in his capacity as local union president. In the case of Haitians, Breitbart Texas has reported on how they arrive to Mexico claiming to be African to receive a   permit to pass through the country northward. With that permit, they have been arriving at U. S. international bridges requesting asylum.  The move continues to overwhelm U. S. authorities as the number of asylum seekers continues to rise, adding more work to the already overwhelmed agents who, according to NBPC officials, lack manpower, equipment, and help from Washington.  “On one hand you have the asylum seekers, but then on the other you have the people (other illegal immigrants) who come across the river and try to get around us,” Garza said. “If we do apprehend them, the first thing they do is claim asylum because they have been told that they will be released. ”  Since federal authorities have run out of space in detention facilities, they have been releasing asylum seekers and illegal immigrants with a court notice telling them to appear at a later date.  “This is an orchestrated strategy by the cartels and the human smuggling organizations where they are coaching these individuals,” he said. “The recent moves by the administration will only serve as bait to draw more individuals to risk their lives at the hands of these ruthless criminal organizations. ” Ildefonso Ortiz is an award winning journalist with Breitbart Texas. He   the Cartel Chronicles project and you can follow him on Twitter and on Facebook.