WASHINGTON  —   More than 130 members of America’s foreign policy establishment denounced President Trump’s revised travel ban on Friday as just as damaging to the United States’ interests and reputation as his original order that halted refugees and froze travelers from predominantly Muslim countries. In a letter to Mr. Trump, the former government officials and experts said even the   order will “weaken U. S. security and undermine U. S. global leadership. ” And they said it continues to signal to Muslim allies that  —   as the Islamic State and other extremist propaganda profess  —   the United States is an enemy of Islam. Several of the 134 signatories served in both Republican and Democratic administrations, including R. Nicholas Burns, who was on the National Security Council staff and a senior diplomat during President Bill Clinton’s administration before becoming under secretary of state for President George W. Bush Richard A. Clarke, the National Security Council counterterrorism coordinator for Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton and John E. McLaughlin, the deputy C. I. A. director for Mr. Clinton and acting C. I. A. director for Mr. Bush. But the vast majority of those who signed the letter  —   including Madeleine Albright and John Kerry, the former secretaries of state Michèle A. Flournoy, the former under secretary of defense and Susan E. Rice, the former national security adviser  —   rose to senior security jobs in government under Democratic presidents. Their argument mirrors one also being made by states that claim the revised travel ban discriminates against Muslims and will hurt businesses and universities. A week after taking office, Mr. Trump issued an executive order to suspend the nation’s refugee program as well as travel from seven predominantly Muslim countries to give the government time to install rigid security vetting of immigrants. The order created chaos at American airports nationwide and was blocked by a federal appeals court. This week, the Trump administration issued a new order that slightly scaled back the original ban but is still considered a significant hardening of American immigration policy. “Bans like those included in this order are harmful to U. S. national security and beneath the dignity of our great nation,” said the letter, which also was sent to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis, Secretary of Homeland Security John F. Kelly and Michael P. Dempsey, the acting director of national intelligence. “The revised executive order is damaging to the strategic and national security interests of the United States,” the letter said.