It should have been a routine flight from Paris to Houston for Henry Rousso, a prominent French historian and a Holocaust scholar. Instead, it became another   and unflattering incident for United States customs authorities who have been tasked with enforcing President Trump’s border security initiatives. Mr. Rousso, who is also an adjunct professor at Columbia University, had visited the United States many times over the past 30 years without much fuss. This time, he was on his way to a speaking engagement at Texas AM University, traveling with a tourist visa. “The experience wasn’t a good one,” Mr. Rousso, who was born in Egypt, said of his   detention at George Bush Intercontinental Airport, which almost led to a flight back to Paris. Mr. Rousso said he was told by an ”inexperienced official” of Customs and Border Protection that he was violating immigration law by using a tourist visa to enter the country to attend the academic conference. (He delivered his speech.) He is one of many   figures who have been detained or interrogated in recent weeks, including Muhammad Ali Jr. who was questioned on Friday in Washington after speaking with members of Congress about being detained last month at an airport in Florida, Mem Fox, a popular Australian author who was questioned at Los Angeles International Airport, and Sidd Bikkannavar, an   NASA scientist. Other detentions have drawn notice because of the circumstances rather than the fame of the people involved, for example  the Afghan family held for four days even though the father had worked for the American government in Afghanistan for 10 years. “Due to such a number of similar stories in the last weeks,” Mr. Rousso said, “I presume that some tourists will hesitate to fly to the U. S. for a while, especially if they are coming from ‘problematic’ countries or if they have children or elders with them. Why take such a risk to be treated like a criminal?” He may be right. President Trump’s first executive order on travel has coincided with a broad decline in interest among international travelers in booking flights to the United States, according to several travel companies. The original order suspended visa entry from seven predominantly Muslum countries  —   Syria, Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Libya, Sudan and Yemen. A revised version of President Trump’s executive order limiting inbound travel, announced on March 6, dropped Iraq from the list of excluded countries and allows people who have visas or ar permanent residents to enter the United States. “It’s the message that’s gone out around the world, that the U. S. is potentially closing for business,” said David Scowsill, the chief executive of the World Travel  Tourism Council. “Trump’s administration has made it clear that they will be   to ‘Make America Great Again,’ and this has led to an   sentiment in the country. ” In analyzing data from British travelers, the travel search engine Kayak found that searches for flights to key cities in the United States had “fallen off a cliff,” especially for 2017 holidays. A study from the farecasting app Hopper showed a significant drop in searches for travel to the United States from 122 origin countries from late December 2016 through Feb. 22. And further analysis through March 6, when the revised order took effect, showed flight searches remained down about 10 percent in comparison to the same period a year earlier. Hopper’s data also shows a correlation between news media reports on the travel ban and a decreased interest in booking travel to the United States. “It seems that as the travel ban becomes featured in the news cycle, regardless of whether it’s in favor or against the travel ban,” said Patrick Surry, the chief data scientist for Hopper, “it may be reminding travelers that there’s a lot of uncertainty around whether international travelers are welcome in the U. S. and flight search demand then drops. ” That means that steady news of detentions could continue to impact tourism  —   as could the fact that Hawaii, Washington and New York are challenging the revised ban. Mr. Surry said it was still too early to tell whether his study showed a   reaction to the travel ban or whether it will affect tourism to the United States in the long run. “Travel is a multibillion dollar industry for the U. S.,” he said. “So even if tourism decreases just a few percentage points, it could have serious effects on the industry. ” Mr. Scowsill said he believed the revised order didn’t do enough to reverse the negative perception created by the original travel ban. “The only way of changing a negative perception is by doing some positive things,” Mr. Scowsill said. ”And positive things are: promoting the U. S. as a tourism destination and making it easier for people to come in. ” Expanding the use of electronic visa processing would help with the latter, he added. These reports come just as the United States tourism industry seemed to have finally regained the losses incurred after the attacks of Sept. 11, according to the U. S. Travel Association. The industry lost $600 billion in the decade after Sept. 11, 2001, according to the association. “A decade and a half of sound policy making from administrations and congresses controlled by both political parties has enabled America to rebound,” Roger Dow, the association’s president and chief executive, said in early February. But by early March, the association expressed concern, saying that Mr. Trump’s order “has had a broad chilling effect on demand for international travel to the United States. ” Mr. Scowsill said he is worried about what the Trump administration’s stricter immigration policies might mean for tourism in the United States going forward. “The United States is in danger of taking the same path it took after the   terror attacks, which led to a decade of economic stagnation in the travel and tourism sector,” Mr. Scowsill said. Still, he said he is hopeful that Mr. Trump’s business sensibilities will win out in the end, adding that the United States’ travel and tourism sectors generate over 8 percent of the country’s GDP and support nearly 10 percent of the country’s employment. “President Trump, given his business background,” Mr. Scowsill said, ”with his leisure and hotel and golfing interests, he really does understand that more people coming into the country means more American jobs. ”