A series of message within the September 2015 State Department dump of Hillary Clinton   show the Secretary of State of the United States received direct orders over U. S. foreign policy from none other than   billionaire George Soros. [Soros  —   who for years has been suspected of pulling the strings behind Clinton as well as dozens of foreign policy and open borders groups  —   appears to have sent a message through his “special advisor” Jonas Rolett.  Rolett, who is listed as “Special Advisor to the Chair” on Soros’s Open Society Foundations website, sent a message to   Department official Richard Verma. Mr. Verma duly passed the message along to an   chain including Hillary’s top foreign affairs advisor Jacob Sullivan, her Deputy Chief of Staff Huma Abedin, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Philip Gordon, as well as a recipient “William J”  —   believed to be William Joseph Burns who was then Deputy Secretary of State. The   dated January 24 2011, begin with Verma forwarding a message from Rolett with the note: “Below message is from George Soros for the Secretary. Understand his organization was sending through other channels as well”. Rolett’s message continues beneath, stating: “Rich, Here’s the text of the message. I’m available to talk at any time. Thanks, Jonas”. Then follows what can only be construed as instructions for the Secretary of State from Democratic Party donor Soros, who has so far given her over $7 million this election cycle: Dear Hillary, A serious situation has arisen in Albania which needs urgent attention at senior levels of the US government. You may know that an opposition demonstration in Tirana on Friday resulted in the deaths of three people and the destruction of property. There are serious concerns about further unrest connected to a   to be organized by the governing party on Wednesday and a   event by the opposition two days later to memorialize the victims. The prospect of tens of thousands of people entering the streets in an already inflamed political environment bodes ill for the return of public order and the country’s fragile democratic process.  I believe two things need to be done urgently:  1. Bring the full weight of the international community to bear on Prime Minister Berisha and opposition leader Edi Rama to forestall further public demonstrations and to tone down public pronouncements.  2. Appoint a senior European official as a mediator.  While I am concerned about the rhetoric being used by both sides, I am particularly worried about the actions of the Prime Minister. There is videotape of National Guard members firing on demonstrators from the roof of the Prime Ministry. The Prosecutor (appointed by the Democratic Party) has issued arrest warrants for the individuals in question. The Prime Minister had previously accused the opposition of intentionally murdering these activists as a provocation. After the tape came out deputies from his party accused the Prosecutor of planning a coup d’etat in collaboration with the opposition, a charge Mr. Berisha repeated today. No arrests have been made as of this writing.  The demonstration resulted from opposition protests over the conduct of parliamentary elections in 2009. The political environment has deteriorated ever since and is now approaching levels of 1997, when similar issues caused the country to slide into anarchy and violence. There are signs that Edi Rama’s control of his own people is slipping, which may lead to further violence.  The US and the EU must work in complete harmony over this, but given Albania’s European aspirations the EU must take the lead. That is why I suggest appointing a mediator such as Carl Bildt, Martti Ahtisaari or Miroslav Lajcak, all of whom have strong connections to the Balkans.  My foundation in Tirana is monitoring the situation closely and can provide independent analysis of the crisis.  Thank you,  George Soros, Indeed just days after the message was sent, Mr. Lajcak, named by Mr. Soros in the   was sent to the Albanian capital in order to attempt to negotiate the situation. At the time Mr Lajcak said it was up to Albania’s leaders “to do what we ask them to do”. Mr. Soros is known for using and indeed manipulating major world events for both his ideological and financial interests. He became known in the United Kingdom as the man who “broke the Bank of England” during one of the worst financial episodes in the country’s recent history. On ‘Black Wednesday’ when Britain withdrew from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, Mr. Soros made over $1bn in one day. His organisations have also recently been responsible for agitating against the new, populist Polish government, as well as in his home country of Hungary, where President Viktor Orban has repeatedly blamed him for the migrant crisis, claiming his staff are “drawing a living” from the problem. In May, Breitbart London exclusively revealed the words of Tomasz Piotr Poreba  —   a former Adviser to the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Regional Development in the European Parliament  —   who said: “Not so long ago relations between the Clintons and billionaire Soros were revealed  …     Soros supports Clintons and Clinton followed his order. That is no secret. ” At the same time Mr. Orban declared: “  …    here, in Central Europe a shadow power exists, which is linked to George Soros, he is one of the most important sponsors of the Democratic Party, so I have to say that although the mouth belongs to Clinton, the voice belongs to George Soros”. Mr. Soros recently called for the overturning of the Brexit vote to leave the European Union, and the Wall Street Journal revealed the   while backing Mrs. Clinton to the tune of millions, is betting against U. S. stocks.