After being attacked by a stranger in her North Carolina home, Top Gun actress Kelly McGilllis responded by getting a gun and a concealed carry weapons permit. [The    actress says she is “armed and ready” the next time someone enters her home with bad intentions again.  According to TheWrap, McGillis was attacked in her Hendersonville home on June 17. “I’m still a bit shook up and struggling with some residual fear,” McGillis wrote in a Facebook post the following day. “I do have an alarm. I was complacent and didn’t set it after living here four years and having nothing happen. ” McGillis also detailed the incident that caused her to purchase a firearm for  . “She broke my in the garage window and called through by stacking 10 bags of mulch. She threw dog food all over the kitchen floor to distract the dogs. I have three. Honestly they seemed really freaked out by the whole thing. I have decided to get a conceal and carry permit. And you can be sure I will be setting the alarm from here on out. McGillis also directly addressed critics of her decision to get a gun in a separate Facebook post, explaining that she was raped by three men as a young girl and had been robbed at gunpoint while in college. The actress said the recent incident pushed her “over the edge. ” “I do not ever want to feel violated again. Ever. Hence the conceal and carry,” the actress wrote. “No one is willing to help their neighbor, the stranger, their brother or sister, the orphan or the widow. That’s why I am going to start carrying a gun. ” https:  . facebook. . php? fbid=1734223613511318set=a. 1389127171354299. 1073741827. 100007710880055type=3theater, On June 23, she posted that the Henderson County Sheriff’s Department “rushed her through” to get a permit: “They rushed me through the conceal and carry course so I am armed and ready. The Henderson County Sheriff’s department has been absolutely the greatest. Here’s my first target practice. I only missed five from the center out of thirty rounds. All hit the target. ” Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer are reportedly attached to star in a sequel to the 1986 classic Top Gun. No word on whether McGillis will reprise her role in the sequel. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.