A new poll released by Maine People’s Resource Center shows that Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are in a statistical tie in Maine’s Second Congressional District. [Maine and Nebraska are the only two states that do not allocate presidential electors on a   all statewide basis.  Maine has four electoral college votes —  two are awarded to the statewide winner and one is awarded to the winner of the popular vote in each of the state’s two congressional districts. In the Second Congressional District portion of the statewide MPRC poll conducted, of 420 likely voters between October 13 and October 14, Clinton leads Trump by one point, 38 percent to 37 percent, in a four way race in the state’s Second Congressional District. Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson is at 11 percent and Green Party candidate Jill Stein is at four percent. The poll has a 4. 8 percent margin of error within the Second Congressional District. In the First Congressional District portion of the MPRC poll conducted of 469 likely voters, Clinton has a ten point lead over Trump, 46. 5 percent to 36. 5 percent, with Johnson at eight percent and Stein at four percent. The poll has a 4. 3 percent margin of error within the First Congressional District. Statewide, Clinton leads Trump 42 percent to 36 percent in the MPRC poll of 890 likely voters, with Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson pulling in 9 percent and Green Party candidate Jill Stein at 4 percent. Statewide, the poll has a 3. 3 percent margin of error. In 2012, all four of Maine’s electoral college votes went to Barack Obama, who defeated Republican challenger Mitt Romney 56 percent to 41 percent statewide, 59 percent to 38 percent in the First Congressional District, and 52 percent to 44 percent in the Second Congressional District. In 2008, Barack Obama also took all four of Maine’s electoral college votes over Republican presidential nominee John McCain. The last time a Republican presidential candidate won any of Maine’s electoral college vote was in 1988, when Republican nominee George H. W. Bush defeated Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis, 55 percent to 43 percent statewide. The Maine People’s Resource Center describes itself as “a     organization dedicated to giving Maine people, especially those who are   in civic life, skills and information to participate in the   processes that affect them. ”