The globalist movement is on the run as the British people on Thursday voted to “Leave” the European Union. [The vote to Brexit —  a   campaign by nationalist populists in the United Kingdom —  puts the world elite on their heels, as a similar but bigger and stronger such movement is brewing right here in the United States.  Donald J. Trump, the presumptive 2016 GOP presidential nominee, has run a campaign so far —  and since winning the nomination —  focused squarely on the exact same issues that the Leave campaigners ran on in the United Kingdom. Uncontrolled migration,    trade deals, national sovereignty, popular control of government, and rejection of world elites are what propelled Leave campaigners to a stunning victory in the United Kingdom. Those same issues are what has propelled Trump to a similarly shocking victory over 16 other Republican presidential candidates in the primaries, where he —  as Breitbart News has documented —  received millions more votes than anyone else who has ever won the GOP nomination has. They also set the stage for the 2016 general election. Trump has not shown a sign of backing down at all, on any of this, and in his speech earlier in the week laying out the case against Hillary Rodham Clinton —  the presumptive 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, his opponent in November —  he set the stage for this battle. “Everywhere I look, I see the possibilities of what our country could be. But we can’t solve any of these problems by relying on the politicians who created them,” Trump said in his Tuesday address. “We will never be able to fix a rigged system by counting on the same people who rigged it in the first place. The insiders wrote the rules of the game to keep themselves in power and in the money. ” Throughout the speech, Trump excoriated Clinton for her ties to the world’s international elite —  citing Peter Schweizer’s Clinton Cash to detail how she and her husband, former U. S. President Bill Clinton, “used the State Department to enrich their family at America’s expense. ” “She gets rich making you poor,” Trump said of Hillary Clinton, talking directly to the voters. The matching themes of Trump’s campaign, and the successful Brexit campaign in the United Kingdom, are in large part why Trump’s   trip to Scotland —  purportedly for opening a golf course with his children, but seemingly because of the Leave success —  makes him the captain of an international populist rejection of the world’s elite. Trump seized the mantle of the movement on Friday morning in Scotland, embracing the populism that has propelled him this far and sustained him even as the most sinister and brutal of attacks come his way from inside his own party and from the other side. “This is an amazing honor,” Trump said on Friday, almost taking credit for Brexit. After noting Brexit won, and by a bigger margin than pundits, analysts, and prognosticators could have ever predicted, Trump noted that the will of the public is all powerful. “It’s always the will of the people ultimately that wins out,” Trump said. As Trump soars back into the United States riding the populist wave on high, he will over the next several months seek to define his general election opponent —  Hillary Clinton —  correctly as the face of the global elite that the British voters just defeated. The lies, smears, and false alarms that Remain campaigners pushed out as part of a giant misinformation campaign designed to deceive the public into choosing against Leave all failed. Those same misinformation campaign tactics are coming into focus here in the United States against Trump. High dollar donors are spending millions on attack ads. The mainstream media is inaccurately calling him a racist, a xenophobe, a sexist, and painting a grossly unfair and wrong picture of Trump as a buffoon who has no idea what he’s doing and would be a disaster for the economy and world security. That is the George Soros playbook, the exact same type of campaign the Remain folks in the United Kingdom ran against Leave campaigners. Perhaps, despite serious concerns over his competence, Leave campaign’s Boris Johnson summed it up best during the BBC debate earlier this week: At the end of this campaign, I think you’ll agree: There is a very clear choice between those on their side who speak of nothing but fear of the consequences of leaving the EU, and we on our side who offer hope. Between those who have been endlessly rubbishing our country and running it down, and those of us who believe in Britain. They say we can’t do it. We say we can. They say we have no choice but to bow down to Brussels. We say they are woefully underestimating this country and what it can do. If we vote Leave, we can take back control of our borders and huge sums of money —  10 billion pounds a year net —  of our tax raising powers, of our trade policies, and of our whole lawmaking system. The democracy that is the foundation of our prosperity and if we stand up for democracy we will be speaking up for hundreds of millions of people around Europe who agree with us but who currently have no voice. And if we vote Leave and take back control, I believe that this Thursday could be our country’s Independence Day.  Johnson lifted the Independence Day line from Nigel Farage of the U. K. Independence Party —  also a Leave campaigner —  and an actual leader of the populist movement who has been banging the drum on the issue for 25 years. Trump struck a similar note in his New York City speech exposing Clinton: Come November, the American people will have a chance to issue a verdict on the politicians that have sacrificed their security, betrayed their prosperity, and sold out their country. They will have a chance to vote for a new agenda with big dreams, bold ideas and enormous possibilities for the American people. Hillary Clinton’s message is old and tired. Her message is that things can’t change. My message is that things have to change  —   and this is our one chance, and maybe our only chance, to do that change. If we don’t do it now, folks, I don’t know that we’ll ever, ever have another chance. We have to have change, but real change —  not Obama change. What the Leave campaigners did in the United Kingdom —  and what Trump is doing here —  is taking the moral high ground away from the global elitists. Trump is turning Hillary Clinton into the “no you can’t” candidate, just as Leave campaigners framed the Remain campaigners as those holding Britain back. The next several months leading up to the United States’ own presidential election are going to be some of the most brutal in U. S. political history. Hillary Clinton and her globalist allies are going to pull out every trick in the book —  and more —  to protect the face of the world elite. Clinton is their icon, their last hope to maintain control. The mud they will sling at Trump —  from the Democratic Party, from Clinton’s campaign itself, and from outside allies like Super PACs and from the media —  will be the worst anyone of us on the right has ever seen. But, if Trump can continue framing the election in this light and ride this wave, he could just soar right on through it and above it into the White House. Populist nationalism has won U. S. House campaigns, U. S. Senate campaigns, and various other smaller ball political battles around the country and around the world. It can even win, as it helped Trump do when he roundly defeated some of the most talented governors and Senators in the primaries  —   a U. S. presidential primary. What Brexit shows is that populist nationalism can win national general elections, as it just did in the United Kingdom. That has the world elite fearing, and rallying around Clinton as we speak. Now that populist nationalism can win, and has won national general elections, is it only logical that Brexit 2. 0 pumps Trump up into the White House? We shall see, come November.