Presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton is leading presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump by only two points in the latest nationwide Quinnipiac University poll.[  percent of voters favor Clinton, while 40 percent prefer Trump.  Clinton leads with women 50 percent to 33 percent, but Trump with men 47 percent to 34 percent. Trump is also leading with white voters, while Clinton leads with African Americans and Hispanics. Independent voters are slightly favoring Trump, with 36 percent liking the billionaire and 34 percent preferring Clinton. According to the poll results, voters think Clinton is better prepared than Trump is to be president by 58 percent to 33 percent.   percent of voters to 33 percent says she is more intelligent while 46 percent to 43 percent say Clinton holds higher moral standards. However, 45 percent to 37 percent of voters say Trump is more trustworthy and honest.   percent, compared with Clinton’s 43 percent, believe Trump would be a stronger leader. Voters believes Clinton would be better for immigration and foreign affairs, but that Trump is better at creating jobs and handling ISIS. The poll results found:   percent of those surveyed said they think the 2016 election caused an increased level of prejudice and hatred in America, according to the poll, which found 61 percent blamed Trump and 16 percent blamed Clinton. “It would be difficult to imagine a less flattering    reaction to Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton,” Quinnipiac University Poll assistant director Tim Malloy stated. “This is where we are. Voters find themselves in the middle of a   scorched earth campaign between two candidates they don’t like. And they don’t think either candidate would be a good president. ” According to CNN, the Quinnipiac poll shows a closer race than a recent Washington   News and a NBC News   Street Journal poll, which were both released on Sunday and found Clinton held a larger lead. CNN notes: The difference is primarily in the polls’ estimate of Clinton’s standing in the race: All three found Trump within the margin of error of the other estimates (at 40% in the Quinnipiac poll, 39% in the Washington   News poll and 41% in NBC News   Street Journal poll, no statistically significant differences there). But each of the three polls pegged Clinton’s support as significantly different from the other two polls, with the low at 42% in the Quinnipiac poll, 46% in the NBC News   Street Journal poll and the high of 51% in Washington   News poll. The Quinnipiac University poll surveyed 1, 610 voters from June 21st to June 27th via telephone interviews. The margin of error is plus or minus 2. 4 percent.