Former President Bill Clinton is set to continue a fundraising jaunt though California on Monday, during which he will rally with state labor leaders and attend a series of pricey fundraisers to collect cash for his wife Hillary’s presidential campaign at scheduled stops in the Central Valley and in Sacramento. [Clinton’s Monday schedule began with a morning rally at Fresno State University, according to local NBC affiliate KCRA.  From there, Clinton will reportedly attend a 2 p. m. event at the Scottish Rite Center in Stockton before embarking to deliver a   speech at Sacramento State University. Later Monday evening, Clinton will be the guest of honor at a fundraiser at the home of former California state Treasurer Phil Angelides. Tickets for the event start at $500 and go up to the maximum allowable $2, 700 for the primary election. KCRA reports that at least 100 individuals are expected to attend the Monday night event. Bill Clinton is also expected to attend a fundraiser in San Francisco on Tuesday morning. Clinton kicked off his California trip Sunday with stops in the Central Valley cities of Bakersfield and Delano. At his speech in Delano, Clinton vowed not to mention presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump  —   and then promptly did so several times. “[Hillary] has been the strongest person to say Mr. Trump is wrong when he says we ought to keep the Muslims out and demonize them any more than immigrants,” the former president said, according to ABC News. “America’s got to be for everybody that will embrace our common values. ” The former president’s visit to the Central Valley was reportedly his first since 1996. Clinton was in Los Angeles earlier this month, where he delivered a   stump speech on behalf of his wife’s campaign and also delivered the commencement address at Loyola Marymount University. After his California trip, Clinton is expected to travel to Espanóla, New Mexico for a Tuesday evening fundraiser. The California primary will be held June 7. Most polls show Hillary Clinton with a comfortable lead over her Democratic rival, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders. Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum