On’u2009the morning after Election Day, Chuck Schumer’s phone rang. It was Donald Trump. Trump has repeatedly described Schumer as his friend  —   which, the New York senator was at pains to clarify when we first spoke in   “isn’t quite true. ” There had been the occasional favor at Schumer’s request, Trump hosted a   for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee at    in 2008, and Schumer made a cameo on “The Apprentice” in 2006. Beyond that, Schumer told me: “I bump into him at meetings here and there. We never went out to dinner once. We never played golf together. I sort of knew him. ” On election night, Schumer was at Hillary Clinton’s party at the Javits Convention Center in Midtown Manhattan when, around 8 p. m. he saw some troubling exit polls coming out of Florida and North Carolina. They showed that   women in both states  —   a demographic that everyone assumed would be a lock  —   were underperforming for Clinton. Schumer called one of her top campaign advisers, who tried to reassure him. “He says, ‘Don’t worry, our firewalls in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and Michigan are strong,’’u2009” Schumer recalls. “’u2009‘There’s no way Trump can win. ’’u2009” Schumer kept up appearances. He tweeted a photo of himself in front of a catering table with Kate McKinnon, who plays Clinton on “Saturday Night Live” (“I got to congratulate Hillary Clinton  —   oops, wrong Hillary! ”) and then took the stage, leading the crowd in a chant of “I believe that she will win!” But by shortly after 11 p. m. Trump had taken Ohio and North Carolina. The probability dashboards on the   websites had lurched Trumpward, and an unthinkable future was lumbering into view. Schumer, who was in line to succeed Harry Reid as the   Democrat in the Senate after Reid’s retirement in December, had spent roughly $8 million of his own campaign funds on Democratic senatorial campaigns in other states in hopes of retaking control of the upper chamber, which the Democrats lost in 2014, and of making himself the majority leader. On his bookshelf he kept a copy of “Master of the Senate,” the historian Robert Caro’s exhaustive chronicle of Lyndon Johnson’s years as the Democratic majority leader, which Caro had inscribed to Schumer: “Whose career I have been following for years with real admiration, so that I have no doubt that he will be a great leader of senators. ” But by the early hours of Wednesday it was clear that the Democrats would not take the Senate and that Schumer would not be Lyndon Johnson. “We’ll work together,” Trump said on the phone call. He said he wanted to repeal the Affordable Care Act  —   “that A. C. A. is terrible,” he told Schumer  —   which was an obvious nonstarter for the incoming minority leader. He also said he wanted a   infrastructure plan. “I said, ‘Well, a trillion dollars sounds good to me,’’u2009” Schumer told me. But to get Democrats on board, he warned, three conditions had to be met. “You can’t do it with these tax breaks,” he said. Second, he could not “cut the programs we care about  —   Medicare, education, scientific research  —   to pay for this. It’s got to be new spending. ” Finally, the bill had to preserve existing environmental and labor protections. “I said, ‘To do that, you’re going to have to get half your party really mad at you. ’’u2009” Schumer, as he saw it, was calling Trump’s bluff. “Donald Trump ran as an   populist  —   against both the Democratic and Republican establishments,” he told me. Whether or not he had meant it, the Democrats could try to hold him to it. On the several occasions that Trump called Schumer in the weeks after the election, Schumer argued that he could try to govern as a   conservative, but “America is not a   country,” and there would be electoral consequences. It might not have been the strongest card to play, but Schumer did not have a strong hand. The election in November left the Democrats stripped of power at every level of federal authority. Schumer would now possess the only means they had of exerting even limited influence over Trump’s agenda: a Senate Democratic caucus that, while several seats shy of a majority, was large enough to make life complicated for Senate Republicans. But that could happen only if the Democrats formed a united front  —   and it was unclear whether they could, or even wanted to. The 2016 election was not just an electoral crisis for the party but also an existential one, more severe than any that the Democrats had experienced in decades. The party had glided through the campaign with a sense of destiny: In July, Schumer breezily remarked that “For every   Democrat we will lose in western Pennsylvania, we will pick up two, three moderate Republicans in the suburbs in Philadelphia, and you can repeat that in Ohio and Illinois and Wisconsin. ” Then Hillary Clinton lost to a candidate who revived a strain of nativist, nationalist politics that had been dormant in the Republican Party for at least a generation, and who won in part on the ballots of Barack Obama voters in traditionally Democratic strongholds like Michigan and Wisconsin. “I sleep like a baby,” Chris Murphy, the Democratic senator from Connecticut, told me. “And I can sleep anywhere  —   on the road, on the floor, in my kid’s bed jammed up against the wall. ” But on election night, he says: “It’s so cliché, but I stayed up all night. I was, mentally, totally unprepared. At some level, you do have this  —   ” he trailed off and was silent for a moment. “You do start to question whether you know the country as well as you thought. ” The Democratic primaries and caucuses, meanwhile, had left the party sharply divided. Clinton lost 22 states to Bernie Sanders, Vermont’s independent and   socialist senator, whose    challenge had stirred a   excitement that Clinton’s campaign conspicuously lacked and acrimoniously split the Democratic Party’s centrist and   contingents  —   the latter of which viewed the Obama years as a missed opportunity to fight economic inequality, reorient trade policy and rein in Wall Street. Clinton might have won the popular vote, but in a way, this only amplified the confusion: about whether the party needed to transform or simply tinker whether it needed to move to the right or to the left whether the voters who were willing to vote for a candidate who said the things Trump said could be won back at all. These were problems for anyone trying to chart a course for the Democrats, but in a particularly acute way they were problems for Schumer, a politician who was better known as a dealmaker, a student of consensus, than as a pathfinder. As majority leader, the next two years might have been the pinnacle of his career: bill signings, valedictory news conferences (and few politicians visibly delight in news conferences the way Schumer does) the sorts of   negotiations that historians like Caro write books about. Instead, Schumer found himself with a job that The Times Union, in Albany, observed two days after the election was “something of a booby prize. ” The Democrats, who spent Obama’s presidency railing against Republican obstructionism, would soon be facing a president who, in his stated ambitions to unmake much of Obama’s legacy, was all but inviting them to try the same. Whether this was in Schumer’s’u200b ’u200bDNA was one question. Whether it was in t’u200bhe party’s’u200b ’u200bwas another. The Democrats have never been a natural opposition party, or a particularly effective one. Republicans from Reagan to the Tea Party broadly believed in reducing government, as the   activist Grover Norquist famously put it, “to the size where I can drag it into the bathroom and drown it in the bathtub. ” Cutting budgets and eliminating programs might require a Republican president and a congressional majority, but lacking this, a disciplined minority party could gum up the works, starving existing initiatives and blocking attempts to expand them. Democrats, by contrast, have generally been united by a belief in government that tries to do big things, in the manner of Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal or Johnson’s Great Society or, later, Barack Obama’s Affordable Care Act  —   a belief that, practically speaking, requires either landslide majorities or a willingness to compromise. Several   polls in recent years have found that this difference is reflected in the party’s electorates, which have increasingly come to view the political process in starkly different ways. In a 2014 Pew survey, 82 percent of people who identified as “consistently liberal” said they liked politicians who were willing to make compromises just 32 percent of “consistently conservative” respondents agreed. The week of Trump’s inauguration, David Brock  —   the onetime conservative journalist turned liberal gadfly  —   hosted a private gathering of Democratic luminaries at Turnberry Isle, a golf resort outside Miami. One speaker Brock invited was Ronald Klain, the former chief of staff to Vice Presidents Al Gore and Joe Biden, who previously worked for Tom Daschle, the Senate minority leader, in the aftermath of the 1994 midterms, when the Republicans took control of both houses of Congress for the first time in 40 years. Addressing Brock’s crowd, Klain called for Democrats to embrace what he dubbed the   Fight Club. As Klain learned from working with Daschle, “You have to take on a lot of fights to win any fights,” he told me recently. “When you’re in the minority, you can’t be too choosy. I advocated a strategy of more comprehensive opposition. ” But plenty of the Democrats present  —   among them the Chicago mayor and former White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel, who was sharing the stage with Klain  —   disagreed. “At the time, there was more of a divide,” Klain told me. “The ‘we gotta pick our spots’ philosophy: ‘He’s a new president  —   we don’t want to look like McConnell looked in 2009. ’’u2009” Mitch McConnell, the Republican senator from Kentucky who was then the minority leader and is now majority leader, reportedly mapped out a program of   resistance shortly before Obama took office  —   a strategy that Democrats spent subsequent years attacking as cynical and irresponsible. “We’re Democrats,” Klain said. “We like to govern. ” Among the Democrats who appeared to share Klain’s postelection view was Harry Reid, Schumer’s predecessor as minority leader, who would be retiring in December. Reid and Schumer, then Reid’s deputy, were an effective team for years in the Senate, partners in a       act. Schumer was known as a   partisan during his 18 years in the House of Representatives, but in the Senate he had become an avatar of the gabby   bonhomie that had historically characterized the upper chamber. “You know, I get along,” Schumer told me. “I’m in the gym in the morning, I’m talking with Thune, and Lamar, and Cornyn all the time,” he said, referring to the Republican Senators John Thune, Lamar Alexander and John Cornyn. “I’m friends with them. They attack me, I attack them. We understand that. ” This was the old way of the Senate  —   one that began to fade in the late 1970s as the ideological consolidation of the parties accelerated, reducing their need and taste for compromise. By the time Schumer arrived in 1999, four years after the Newt   Republican revolution, it was fast becoming an anachronism, with meals in the senators’ bipartisan dining room giving way to   caucus lunches. By the time Reid became minority leader, amid the   polarization of George W. Bush’s second term, it was all but gone. Reid, like his Republican counterpart, McConnell, was one of the rare politicians who seemed to genuinely not care if people liked him or not. He was known for his   floor speeches, sandbags of verbiage delivered with minimal theatrics and less ambiguity of purpose. It was in this mode that he took to the Senate floor, a week after the election, and drew a line. Senate Democrats had tried for years to pass the kind of infrastructure bill Trump had suggested, Reid reminded his colleagues, only to run up against Republican opposition. “If Trump wants to pursue policies that will help working people, Democrats will take a pragmatic approach,” he said. “But we also have other responsibilities. ” He made clear that the price of Democratic cooperation should be Trump’s dropping of Stephen K. Bannon, the former Breitbart News executive chairman who ran his campaign and whom Trump named as his chief White House strategist two days earlier. “In his first official act, Trump appointed a man who is seen as a champion of white supremacy as the No. 1 strategist in his White House,” Reid said. “As long as a champion of racial division is a step away from the Oval Office,” he added, “it will be impossible to take Trump’s efforts to heal the nation seriously. ” Reid and Schumer might have differed temperamentally, but they were both thinking about the 2018 midterm elections, in which 25 Democratic senators would be defending their seats. Lose eight seats, and the Republicans would have 60, enough to override a Democratic filibuster  —   at which point the Democrats’ debates about what they stood for or against would be academic. Five of the those senators  —  “the Big Five,” Schumer called them  —   were moderate Democrats in states in the Midwest, the Mountain West and Appalachia that Trump had just won handily. The abiding question was what, exactly, the voters who cast ballots for both Trump and, say, North Dakota’s Democratic senator, Heidi Heitkamp, were voting for in 2016 the party was still far from a clear answer. Schumer, who began holding weekly dinners with the Big Five after the election, believed it was best to allow these senators to cooperate with Trump as necessary. But according to members of Reid’s staff at the time, Reid (who declined to comment) worried that, given Trump’s lack of interest in policy detail and disregard for ethical conflicts, even   legislative compromises could prove to be politically costly  —   that an eventual backlash against the president would also fall upon Democrats who gestured toward working with him. “Reid didn’t want to validate the assumption that this incompetent blowhard could get a bill to the floor in the first place, which has proved to be a struggle for Trump so far,” Adam Jentleson, at the time Reid’s deputy chief of staff, told me. Democrats were also still deeply divided over whether it was even possible to navigate 2017 without resolving the ideological and policy differences that fractured the party in 2016. At a   meeting of the Democracy Alliance  —   a network of   Democratic campaign donors  —   at the Mandarin Oriental hotel in Washington the week after the election, Senator Elizabeth Warren delivered an emotional address, excoriating the party for losing its way. One attendee paraphrased her speech to me: “People want someone to fight for them  —   that’s why they voted for Donald Trump. He might not actually do it, but he said he would fight for them. On trade, in American politics, we’ve gotten where we either look like we’re all about free trade without any empathy for people who have lost their jobs, or we’re rabid  . We need to build a policy in between. In 2016, we did not come out clear. When we are clear about what we believe, when we fight for people, we’ll win. ” To beat pugilistic   populism, maybe you needed pugilistic   populism. Reid brought Warren onto the Democratic Senate leadership team in 2014, and she was one of the people he most trusted to keep the Senate caucus on its bearings through the difficult weather ahead. Shortly before Thanksgiving, he summoned Warren to the minority leader’s office. When she arrived, the room was littered with art supplies on an easel was a   portrait of Reid that would be unveiled at his retirement party the following month. Its subject was preoccupied with the future of the party to which he had dedicated decades of his life. Reid told Warren she needed to think seriously about running for president in 2020. “He was worried in November,” Warren told me recently. “For me, it was so important to make clear: We will fight back  —   we will fight back. We’re not here to make this normal. ” Warren believed that the Democrats’ first postelection battle should be over the   Cures Act, a $6. 3 billion   funding bill then before the Senate, which she argued gave away too much to the pharmaceutical industry and would weaken drug regulations. At a Nov. 28 meeting of the party’s Senate leadership team, she argued that the Democrats should negotiate harder than they had on the bill. But the idea was dead on arrival Trump was not in office yet, and the Obama administration supported the legislation, which among other things would finance the Cancer Moonshot initiative that Joe Biden planned to make his life’s work after leaving office. Warren crusaded against the bill on the Senate floor anyway, but only two Democrats joined her in voting against it. It was a minor fight, but an illuminating one. From one perspective, Warren’s move looked quixotic at a time when the party had bigger problems. From another, it was an argument for survival: Whatever unity the Democrats could manage would be worthless without settling what, and who, the party stood for. On the evening of Dec. 14, as Democrats were still struggling to find their way, a Google Doc appeared online titled “Indivisible: A Practical Guide for Resisting the Trump Agenda. ” Its main authors were three young former Democratic congressional staff members whose ambitions were at once modest and sweeping. “We’re not starting an organization, and we’re not selling anything,” they wrote. What they were offering was a blueprint. “The guide is intended to be equally useful for stiffening Democratic spines and weakening   Republican resolve,” they wrote. “We believe that the next four years depend on citizens across the country standing indivisible against the Trump agenda. We believe that buying into false promises or accepting partial concessions will only further empower Trump to victimize our fellow citizens. ” The Twitter account that first circulated the blueprint belonged to Ezra Levin, then a    associate director for federal policy at an antipoverty nonprofit and one of the document’s authors. Shortly after graduating from college, Levin was hired by Lloyd Doggett, a Democratic congressman representing Levin’s hometown, Austin, Tex. and he was working at Doggett’s office on Aug. 1, 2009, when the congressman went to meet his constituents at a Randalls grocery store in South Austin. At the time, Democrats were trying to maneuver the Affordable Care Act through the House of Representatives, and organizers of the nascent Tea Party movement decided to mount a show of force at the town halls that representatives typically held in their districts during the August recess. As Doggett spoke outside the Randalls, a large crowd of demonstrators gathered, armed with DON’T TREAD ON ME flags, signs assailing “socialized health care” and, in one case, a large poster of Doggett’s face augmented with devil horns. “They chased him out into the parking lot,” Levin told me recently. When Doggett tried to leave, the crowd surrounded his car. For the congressional staff members who experienced the uprising that August, the lessons of the Tea Party were mostly tactical, and unambiguous. Representatives live in fear of the wrath of their constituents, but also at a remove from it the legislative process is complicated, blame is easily distributed and Washington is far away. There is an adage on Capitol Hill that five letters from the district about a bill is cause for alarm, and 10 is a   emergency. By those standards, a couple hundred Tea Partyers besieging their elected officials in person was a borderline apocalypse. Republicans had in recent decades outperformed Democrats at this kind of dispersed,   activism. This was in part because the party was more geographically distributed than the Democrats, who were increasingly concentrated in urban areas and interior suburbs. But Democrats had also historically relied heavily on unions and urban party machines to reach voters  —   a support apparatus that receded sharply by the late 20th century. The Republicans, who never had such luxuries, assiduously cultivated their own grass roots  —   an effort whose success has contributed to the deep erosion of the Democrats’ presence in state legislatures (down 23 percent) and governor’s mansions (down nearly 45 percent) since 2008. The most combustible Tea Party town halls were confrontations with Democrats, like Doggett, whose positions on the A. C. A. stood little chance of changing. But these representatives weren’t really the intended audience Republicans were. The shaky,   videos posted to YouTube  —   the first real recognition, in American politics, of the platform’s potential as a stage for agitprop theater  —   and looped endlessly on Fox News were a message to wavering Republicans that obstruction would be rewarded and compromise would be punished. “They were really smart on strategy,” Levin told me: “Focus on your local members, and be defensive in nature. ” Perhaps most important, “They understood that ‘No’ was a complete sentence. ” “Indivisible” was a   précis of the tactics the document’s authors had seen work against them  —   a guide to getting to “No. ” “We’re under no illusion that the resistance will defeat every piece of Trump’s agenda,” Levin told me. The Tea Party lost many battles, including its biggest: “Obamacare was passed.   did pass. Lloyd Doggett did vote for health care. But it did slow down and water down legislation. We didn’t get card check for unions. We didn’t get cap and trade. We didn’t get a lot of things. ” If the Indivisible Guide was a blueprint for a movement, it was an unusual one, bearing little resemblance to liberal or   movements of the past. It called for no ideological remaking of the Democratic Party, no housecleaning of the establishment, no   of the bums  —   or at least not the Democratic ones. Its authors weren’t political outsiders they were members of Washington’s mainstream Democratic professional class. The document presented not just a strategy for standing up to Trump but also an argument for sidestepping the party’s most divisive internal conflicts. It offered a way of thinking about resisting the Trump administration that set aside the debate over what kind of party the Democrats should be. “This is not a panacea,” the authors wrote, “nor is it intended to stand alone. ” It was not a policy agenda, and that was the point. “The Tea Party took root in 2009, focused on fighting against every proposal coming out of the new Democratic administration and Congress. This focus on defense rather than policy development allowed the movement to avoid fracturing. Tea Party members may not have agreed on the policy reforms, but they could agree that Obama, Democrats and moderate Republicans had to be stopped. ” Within two days of Levin’s initial tweet, the guide was enthusiastically circulated by Democratic old hands (like Robert Reich, Bill Clinton’s first labor secretary) liberal journalists (New York magazine’s Jonathan Chait) and celebrities (George Takei, Miranda July). When the authors set up a proper website, it was viewed more than five million times in its first month  —   a testament to how closely the guide mirrored where Democratic voters already were. Demonstrators flocked to impromptu protests in the days immediately after the election, prompting Trump to fume on Twitter less than two days after his victory: “Just had a very open and successful presidential election. Now professional protesters, incited by the media, are protesting. Very unfair!” Five days before Trump’s inauguration, congressional Democrats  —   aided by Bernie Sanders, who deployed the formidable email list he built during his presidential campaign  —   held rallies in defense of the Affordable Care Act across the country, in some cases drawing thousands of demonstrators. What the crowds lacked for now, however, was any particular focal point besides the simple fact of Trump’s presidency and what they anticipated it might try to do in its early days. They were a force in search of an object. The first significant chances for Democratic lawmakers to stand against Trump’s presidency in some concrete form were the votes for his cabinet appointments. Five hours after he was sworn in, on Jan. 20, the Senate considered James Mattis, a retired   Marine Corps general, for defense secretary. Democrats broadly considered Mattis to be far from the worst pick for the Pentagon that Trump could have made. As Schumer told me, “He was against torture and got Trump to actually shift. ” The only member of either party to vote against him was Kirsten Gillibrand, New York’s junior Democratic senator. Gillibrand’s stated objection to Mattis was that his appointment would weaken civilian control over the military. She personally forced a   vote on his appointment  —   an opportunity to literally stand up and be counted, as the lone opposition figure  —   which seemed to indicate that she understood the significance of the moment. Gillibrand was initially a moderate Democrat representing an upstate district in the House of Representatives, then almost immediately established herself as one of the most liberal members in the Senate after arriving there in 2009. She was also one of the first senators to grasp the importance, and potential, of the Women’s March, which would descend on Washington the day after the Mattis vote. March organizers say they invited some senators to speak, but Gillibrand came to them asking to be involved. In the days after the Women’s March, the rest of the party began to figure out what Gillibrand had already grasped: Maybe the party’s base wanted the Democrats to act like McConnell. A protest against one aspect of Trump quickly became a protest against all aspects of him. A demonstration in Washington also drew crowds in Louisville, Ky. Boise, Idaho Charleston, S. C. Des Moines. “I lived very personally through the loss in 2000, the Supreme Court decision,” Klain, who was general counsel for Al Gore during that year’s presidential recount, told me. “And the response this time has been nothing like that. There has been genuine   activism  —   not just in the big cities but also everywhere else. ” The Democratic base, at least, had gotten to “No. ” And it expected the Senate Democrats to get there too. The first demonstrations outside Schumer’s Brooklyn apartment building were slightly apologetic affairs. The crowd of about 100 protesters who gathered on Jan. 8 around the   prewar   across the street from Prospect Park carried unequivocal signs: MAKE US PROUD OR WE’LL PRIMARY YOU DON’T CUT DEALS WITH THE DEVIL! But Mark Dunlea of 350Brooklyn, a group that put together the rally, was quick to explain to a reporter from the website DNAInfo that “we see Schumer primarily as an ally. We’re just trying to encourage him to be more aggressive on these issues. It’s not like we’re protesting Schumer  —   we’re urging him to be stronger. ” By the week after Inauguration Day, however, rallies were happening nationwide every Tuesday and had acquired an angrier edge. Trump was issuing a flurry of executive orders: reduced regulations on manufacturing, a pledge to disassemble the Affordable Care Act, advancements of the Dakota Access and Keystone XL pipelines, the end of federal funding for “sanctuary cities”  —   municipalities that limit their cooperation with federal authorities in detaining people suspected of   violations  —   and the   to build his   United   border wall. Then, on the afternoon of Friday, Jan. 27, the White House announced it was immediately blocking all travel to the United States by citizens of seven   countries. The next evening, thousands of demonstrators converged on international airports around the country as travelers who were caught up in the ban languished behind security cordons. Some Democratic lawmakers who were back in their districts for the weekend joined them. Warren was at Boston’s Logan International Airport, red megaphone in hand. Cory Booker was at the Alfalfa Club dinner  —   a cozy Washington institution that Trump skipped but several White House officials were, reportedly, attending  —   when his chief of staff called him from Dulles International Airport. “I basically bolted,” Booker told me. “I mean, just compare: Who do I want to be standing with?” By 11:45 p. m. he was in the terminal, his tuxedo jacket exchanged for a sweater, addressing the protesters: “This is going to be a long, arduous and tough fight. And let me tell you right now: We have to be determined to continue the fight. ” The following afternoon, when a crowd of 10, 000 gathered to protest in Manhattan’s Battery Park, the first person in line to address the demonstrators, after the rally organizers, was Chuck Schumer. Taking the microphone, Schumer led the crowd in an old standby of a chant  —   “A people united will never be divided!”  —   and, somewhat tentatively, raised his fist. A couple near where I was standing, next to the stage, started laughing. It was a strange thing to see: Schumer was at the barricades, but Schumer was not really a barricades kind of guy. “What we’re talking about here is life and death for so many people,” he intoned, and waved his arm in the direction of the Statue of Liberty, glinting in the distance over his shoulder. “What we’re talking about here is that beautiful lady in the harbor  —   and what America is all about. ” Schumer’s presence at the rally suggested just how quickly, and definitively, the politics of the moment had been settled. In the week since the Women’s March, Trump’s executive orders had confirmed liberals’ worst fears of his intentions and the helplessness of congressional Democrats to stand in his way. And by the end of that week all four cabinet appointees under consideration  —   Mattis Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly Mike Pompeo, director of the Central Intelligence Agency and Nikki Haley, ambassador to the United Nations  —   sailed through their confirmation votes with no serious opposition. Schumer, in particular, had become a target of outrage. He had not only declined to rally his caucus against the cabinet nominees, but he had also voted for all four of them himself. As he was speaking, I heard a burst of effusive applause and cries of “Senator! Senator!” coming from behind me. I turned and saw, gliding through the scrum in the direction of the stage, the bald dome of Cory Booker’s head. He was beaming, obliging fans with   and back slaps. By some measures, Booker’s voting record in the Senate placed him a couple of clicks to the right of Schumer. But Booker voted no on Kelly and Pompeo, and Schumer did not. Booker was at the airport protests the night before, and Schumer was not. “My middle name is Ellis  —   Charles Ellis Schumer,” Schumer was saying. “I was named after Uncle Ellis, who was named after Ellis Island. I named my daughter’s middle name Emma, after Emma Lazarus, and what she said 100 years ago that’s emblazoned on that beautiful statue  —   ” “Vote no on Sessions!” a handful of people around me were chanting now. Jeff Sessions, Schumer’s Senate colleague, would be up for a confirmation vote as attorney general the following week. “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore  —   ” “Chuck loves Trump! Chuck loves Trump!” the hecklers chanted. “Don’t vote for one of them!” a woman next to me yelled. After Schumer yielded the stage to Gillibrand  —   “She voted no!” another woman near me shouted approvingly  —   he started making his way through the crowd, right into what happened to be a particularly dense pocket of his detractors. “Put ’em up, everybody!” he said, grinning, offering his hands for  . “Put ’em up for our immigrants!” “Vote no, Senator,” someone yelled. “Vote no!” “I’m no on DeVos,” Schumer said. “No on Tillerson. No on Mulvaney. No on Carson. No on Mnuchin. No on all of them!” (He had, in fact, already announced he was voting against Betsy DeVos, Rex Tillerson and Mick Mulvaney  —   the prospective secretaries of education and state and head of the Office of Management and Budget, respectively.) “Why did you confirm Haley and Mattis?” someone demanded. “Grow a spine, Chuck!” a   trimly mustachioed man screamed, practically in Schumer’s ear, his voice cracking: “Grow a spiiiiiiiine!” A scruffy young man, perched in the crook of a tree, began leading a chant: “Grow a spine, Chuck! You must obstruct!” Schumer is one of those politicians who seem to feed on the attention of a crowd, even a largely hostile one, and he pressed on gamely, smiling and shaking hands, pointing in the direction of the occasional familiar face: “Hey Dave, nice to see you!” He was almost out to the street, the crowd around him thinning, when a   woman in a “pussy hat” called out, in a Brooklyn accent nearly as thick as Schumer’s, “What about the first four votes?” Schumer stopped, a hint of a smile on his face, as if intrigued by the specificity of the harangue. “Would you have voted against Mattis?” he asked. “Everything they do. ” “He’s the only one who came out against torture. ” “So it’s a defensive vote?” “Yeah. ” “So we’re going to keep figuring out who’s a relief?” “No, no, no  —   all the other bad ones, we’re going against. ” He swept off up the block with his aides, a man trying to figure out how to be reasonable in deeply unreasonable times. The next cabinet vote, as it happened, was for DeVos, a nominee whom Democrats considered as vulnerable as she was objectionable. In   Schumer wrote to McConnell demanding that certain conditions be met  —   only two cabinet votes a week, and all background checks by the Office of Government Ethics completed before the confirmation hearings  —   or else he would lead his caucus in opposing eight of the nominees, including DeVos. Two Republicans, Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, had announced their opposition to DeVos. One more no vote would sink the nomination. The Democrats called for an   marathon debate of DeVos’s nomination leading up to the vote on Feb. 7. It wasn’t a filibuster  —   Reid had done away with those for cabinet nominees in 2013  —   but a kind of  : an effort to draw attention to the vote in hopes of further overloading the Senate office buildings’ phone lines and nudging off the fence one of several Republican senators who had been identified, perhaps wishfully, as potentially persuadable. It was also an unsubtle challenge to Senate Democrats: the first moment since the airport protests for the party to stand up and stand together. As they held the floor Monday night and through the early hours of Tuesday, the senators stood in front of the   cameras and read off messages from constituents, urging them to send more to their Republican colleagues before the noon vote. By Monday evening the hashtag #HoldTheFloor was trending on Twitter, accompanied by emoji of praying hands, by inspirational quotes, by photos of Nelson Mandela or of Hodor from “Game of Thrones. ” It was odd, amid the online clamor, to arrive at the Capitol shortly before 2 a. m. and find it   quiet, nearly empty. The Democratic senators filed in one at a time, spoke for an hour to the rotating crew of stenographers and left. Brian Schatz, a young senator from Hawaii, was waiting for his turn to speak and checking Twitter on his phone. He had voted for the first four nominees but then loudly declaimed against others. Shortly after the travel ban, he tweeted: “I’ve never been a     guy. But I do think it’s time to march on the street. ” After an hour, the camera cut away, and a mildly   Tim Kaine ambled onto the floor to take his turn. “Timmy!” Schatz exclaimed. “Are you going to speak for, like, an hour without notes?” Kaine grinned. “I’ve got three pages,” he said. The Senate chamber has the oxygenated,   atmosphere of a casino on a slow night, the same woozy contextlessness. Sitting in the   press gallery as the clock inched toward 4 a. m. I began to have the strange sensation of not knowing exactly what I was watching. The Democrats, it was clear by then, would lose this fight. But the point of the fight was to show that they would fight, to generate the affirming images and video clips that were cascading through   social media, demonstrations of the efficacy of a resistance whose   prospects rested largely on the impression that Democratic lawmakers were hearing, and responding to, its demands. “Fourteen Democrats voted for Mike Pompeo,” Ezra Levin, the Indivisible Guide   told me. “This was a man who slandered Muslims, was open to torture, and 14 Democrats voted for him! That’s why you saw people outside Dianne Feinstein’s office, outside of Schumer’s office, Amy Klobuchar’s office. The base wants them to stand on principle. In the two weeks between Pompeo and DeVos, there were massive protests. And zero Democrats voted for DeVos. Pompeo was an awful pick DeVos was an awful pick. The thing that changed was not the degree of their awfulness, it was that people stood up. ” The next day, at a confirmation hearing for Jeff Sessions, Elizabeth Warren read from a letter that Coretta Scott King wrote in 1986 opposing his judicial appointment, prompting McConnell to censure her with an obscure procedural rule. McConnell’s justification  —   “She was warned she was given an explanation nevertheless, she persisted”  —   quickly evolved into a rallying cry, prompting nearly twice as many Google searches for Warren’s name as her election to the Senate did in 2012. In the next 24 hours, members of the   organization MoveOn raised $300, 000 for her 2018   campaign, and Sessions was confirmed as the attorney general of the United States. Who could claim this as a victory? Trump? Warren? Both of them? By   spirits in Democratic Washington had palpably lifted. You wouldn’t have described the mood as triumphal it was more as if everyone had emerged from the basement after a tornado to discover that, while the car was upside down somewhere, at least the house was still standing. The travel ban remained marooned, at least temporarily, in the courts. (A redrafted executive order was issued on March 6, but it was unclear if it had fully resolved the legal issues of the first.) Trump’s nominee for labor secretary, the   C. E. O. Andrew Puzder, backed out of consideration for the job in   after the Republicans concluded that they did not have the votes to confirm him. The project of doing away with the Affordable Care Act was still tied up in committee amid disagreements among the Republicans themselves  —   an inevitable consequence, perhaps, of their      opposition effort that the Democrats were now studying. And the infrastructure bill that had threatened to divide Democrats against themselves never materialized there was talk now of it being pushed back to 2018. On Feb. 28, a few hours before Trump was due to give his first speech to Congress, I went to see Schumer in the minority leader’s chambers in the Capitol. The senator was sitting in a leather wingback chair in his shirt sleeves, and he seemed to be in a genuinely upbeat mood. “Things look much better for us and much worse for him than I ever imagined based on the first month,” he told me. The day before, three Republican senators  —   Ted Cruz, Mike Lee and Rand Paul  —   had held out for nothing less than full repeal of the Affordable Care Act. “That’s the three votes they need, even with 52!” Schumer crowed. (The following week, a replacement bill finally began to advance through committees in the House of Representatives, but Paul declared in a Fox News interview that it would be “dead on arrival” in the Senate.) He pointed to the crowds that Indivisible and other groups had turned out in the thousands at town halls across the country the previous week. “Trump is the enemy, and his Republican acolytes  —   not Democrats,” he said. “We’re already beginning to coalesce around that. It was very positive. They throw a few brickbats, fine. This energy is enormous. ” But even as a sort of guarded optimism set in among many Democrats, there was a gloom among the party’s left flank that appeared nearly as thick as it was in November  —   a sense that the party, buoyed by the easy gratification of opposition, was punting on resolving difficult questions, at its own peril. Just before visiting Schumer, I went to see Bernie Sanders in his Capitol Hill office. In a couple of hours, the Vermont senator’s colleagues would be gathering in Senate dining room to share a meal  —   a bipartisan tradition before presidential speeches to Congress. But Sanders did not intend to be among them. “I think I’m going to skip the dinner tonight,” he said. “I’m not in a very convivial mood. I don’t want to pretend. These are very, to my mind, frightening times. ” Since ending his presidential campaign in July, Sanders, who caucuses with the Democrats in the Senate, had been managing the complicated task of redirecting the movement that materialized around his candidacy toward a Democratic Party with which he had a tetchy relationship. Schumer had created a post for him in the party’s Senate leadership, and Sanders had helped mobilize his   network for two rounds of rallies in defense of the Affordable Care Act. But earlier in the week, he said in a CNN interview that “a total transformation of the Democratic Party” was still in order, and that he had also not yet given the D. N. C.  —   which he called the “establishment’s house”  —   access to his campaign email list. “It’s not some magical system,” Sanders told me, disdain dripping off the word “magical. ” “How do we bring in, how do you raise money from, those people? You know what? You’ve got to stand for something. ” I asked him if he thought the Democratic Party knew what it stood for. “You’re asking a good question, and I can’t give you a definitive answer,” he said. “Certainly there are some people in the Democratic Party who want to maintain the status quo. They would rather go down with the Titanic so long as they have   seats. ” In early February, Elizabeth Warren, in a speech to the Congressional Progressive Caucus, warned that while the Democrats were fashioning themselves into an opposition party, that was not enough to solve the problems that put them in the position of becoming an opposition party in the first place. “Men like Donald Trump come to power when their countries are already in deep trouble,” she said. “There are some in the Democratic Party who urge caution. They say this is a tactical problem: ‘We need better data. We need better social media. We need better outreach. We need better talking points.’ Better talking points? Are you kidding me? People were so desperate for economic change in this country that Donald Trump was just inaugurated as president, and people think we need better talking points? What alternative planet are they living on?” When I met Warren a few weeks later, I asked her about the speech, and whether the postelection unity that Trump provided the Democratic Party made her ambitions to reform it easier or harder to realize. “I think it has reminded Democrats we need to run on our values,” she replied, parrying the question. “Because our values are more in line with most of America. ” If you squinted at the bodies packing the streets and the town halls, though, the picture looked an awful lot like the recent past: Here were people drawn together in defense of liberal immigration and refugee policies, reproductive rights, civil liberties and preserving Obama’s policy legacy, and in opposition to a president who was moving against all those things. These were last year’s arguments, only louder. If Trump, as president, seemed unable to let go of his 2016 campaign, the Democrats seemed like they were acting out an improved version of their own  —   the crowds bigger and more unified, the stakes more clearly understood. “There’s more enthusiasm, more energy, more passion now than there was at any point in the 2016 campaign  —   which is both heartening and discouraging, all at the same time,” Guy Cecil, the chairman of Priorities USA, the largest Democratic super PAC, told me. “’u200bI think that’s what a lot of us are seeing and feeling. And we’re trying to figure out the right way for us to respond to it. ” For now, the question was how far “No” could carry the Democrats. The Indivisible Guide, in the three months since Levin first posted the Google Doc, had birthed the organization he and his colleagues had not intended to start, with Levin as the executive director. It had registered more than 5, 800 local affiliate groups, at least two in each of the country’s 435 congressional districts. In February, Priorities USA, which raised $192 million to support Clinton in 2016, announced it was reorienting itself to support   organizing  —   including an investment in online advertising driving people to the Indivisible Guide’s website listing congressional members’ town halls. Schumer, meanwhile, was planning to lead the Democrats against Neil Gorsuch’s Supreme Court nomination, forcing the Republicans to find 60 votes or get rid of the filibuster. If Republicans tried to gut federal funding for Planned Parenthood in a forthcoming budget bill, he told me, he was perfectly willing to filibuster that too. “I think McConnell and Ryan know they can’t shut down the government,” he said. “Because they’re in charge now. ” And Schumer, precisely no one’s idea of a revolutionary, was now, at least in a narrow constitutional sense, the leader of the resistance. On my way out of his new office, I noticed a green marble fireplace and asked him if he’d used it yet. “Oh, man,” he said. “It’s my favorite perk. I live in Brooklyn  —   I never had a fireplace. I’m learning to start fires. ”