Conservative talk radio host and bestselling author, Mark Levin, will speak at the American Conservative Union (ACU) Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) Breitbart News has learned exclusively. [The conference, which is an annual gathering of conservative activists, will take place in early March outside of Washington, D. C. It will be located at the Gaylord National Resort  Convention Center in National Harbor, Maryland.  The conference will also feature many 2016 Republican presidential contenders like real estate mogul Donald Trump, Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) and Carly Fiorina. American Conservative Union Chairman Matt Schlapp said in a statement released to Breitbart News, “Mark Levin’s experience in the Reagan administration informed his ability to understand how ideas and intellect are essential ingredients in the preservation of the principles that have made America the world’s best hope for freedom,” said Schlapp.  “We are honored Mark will join us again at CPAC. ” The release also includes a statement from Levin: “Ronald Reagan once rallied conservatives to stand ‘shoulder to shoulder in the thickest of the fight,’” said Mark Levin. “Today, we face an even more daunting challenge than existed 35 years ago  —   ending the aggressive usurpation of our constitutional structure, which has brought the nation to a perilous point.  This is why I’ll be going to CPAC,” added Levin. “We must join together like our forefathers  —   fellow patriots meeting, discussing, and planning  —   to develop ways to advance liberty, rebuild a vibrant civil society, and restore the republic. ” Breitbart News’ Matthew Boyle reported Friday that the theme of this year’s CPAC is from President Ronald Reagan’s 1981 CPAC address: “Our Time Is Now. ” “Our time is now. Our moment has arrived,” President Reagan told the conservative gathering in 1981. “We stand together shoulder to shoulder in the thickest of the fight. ” The press release provided to Breitbart News explains the theme: Reagan’s sentiment reflects the urgency for grassroots activists to come together once again to work toward enacting conservative,   solutions to today’s problems, all of which have been aggravated by Obama’s policies. This year’s theme builds upon last CPAC’s theme, ‘Conservative Action Starts Here,’ by urging the people we trained and activated at CPAC to help restore the ideas and ideals of our nation’s founding.    