Sunday at CNN’s Democratic presidential town hall, presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said she can beat Republican presidential   Donald Trump on forging policy with her experience as secretary of state.  Clinton said, “Let me give you a little bit where we are right now votes on Tuesday, I am the only candidate who has gotten more votes than Trump. I have 600, 000 more votes than Donald Trump, and  —   and I am building a   inclusive campaign that I think is the best way to defeat him by convincing people that this really is the highest stakes election that they have ever been involve dd in. And they have got to whether they have ever voted before or not, to come out and vote against Donald Trump and for me. Because I have more votes than everybody, anybody. I believe that I have been developing the base that is going to to give me the chance to do that. Secondly, you know one of my advantages if I am so fortunate to be the Democratic nominee is that the Republicans have been after me for 25 years  —   and there isn’t anything they haven’t already said about me, and in the course offal dealing with all of this incoming fire from them, I have developed a pretty thick skin. I am not new to the national arena. And I think that whoever goes up against Donald Trump better be ready. And I feel I am the best prepared and ready candidate to take him on. She added, “Finally, I really believe that there are going to be a lot of arguments to make against him that we can look forward to, and I’m not going to spill the beans but suffice it to say that there right now. There are many arguments that we can use against him. But one argument that I am uniquely qualified to bring, because of my service as secretary of state is what his presidency would mean to our country and our standing in the world. I am already receiving messages from leaders, and I am having foreign leaders ask if they can endorse me to stop Donald Trump, and I am like, no, this is up to Americans, thank you very much. And I see where it is coming from from. ” When pressed on who the leaders were Clinton said, “We are holding that in reserve. ” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN