The Washington Post endorsed Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton for president on Thursday. That was predictable. What was less predictable was the incredibly weak, and misleading, case the Post editorial board attempted to make as it argued that she is not the lesser of two evils, but will make an “excellent” president. [The Post cannot highlight Clinton’s achievements. Instead, it   her many failures as “a series of learning experiences that have prepared her well” for the Oval Office.  For example, it excuses Clinton’s role in the   Russian “reset” by pretending that no one could have predicted the result: “When Ms. Clinton launched the policy, Dmitry Medvedev, not Vladimir Putin, was president of Russia, and nobody  —   maybe not even Mr. Putin  —   knew how things would play out. ” Everyone knew that Putin controlled the real power behind Medvedev, and the Russians immediately took advantage of Clinton’s weakness, pushing back U. S. missile defenses. The Post cites Clinton’s “executive experience” as Secretary of State, but cites no actual accomplishments. The word “Iran” does not appear once in the editorial. Most laughable of all, the Post describes the Benghazi terror attack as a “ ” controversy that “proved to be no scandal at all. ” Never mind Clinton’s dereliction of duty on the night of Sep. 11 never mind her refusal to provide increased security beforehand never mind her lies about a YouTube video never mind the intimidation of witnesses when investigations began never mind the emails she destroyed, while under subpoena. About those emails: the Post brushes aside the controversy. “Her use of a private email server as secretary was a mistake, not a high crime but her slow, grudging explanations of it worsened the damage and insulted the voters. ” The Post glosses over her continued lies, and omits her   of classified information. The Post‘s nod is not an endorsement, but just the latest a  . Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.