Ivan Jurcevic, till his New Year’s eve    eyewitness epiphany, deemed Muslim rampages in Europe the stuff of “right wing PEGIDA [a grass roots European   advocacy group] propaganda videos. ” [  Intrepid, yeoman reporting by Breitbart London —  as even acknowledged in a Times of London   —  exposed the scope and brutality of these Muslim   events, which were initially suppressed by German, and other Western European governmental sources, and their simpatico, cultural relativist lapdog media. Consistent with bowdlerized reportage on commonplace, heinous acts of misogyny rampant in Muslim societies —  notably, female genital mutilation, or the Islamic State’s practice of jihad sexual slavery —  the canonical Islamic roots of such predatory behavior [see also Koran 2:223 which designates women as “tilth” sexual objects for Muslim men, “when or how you (men]) will”]  were of course ignored in mainstream media outlets belatedly acknowledging the mass acts of sexual assault committed New Year’s Eve by Muslim males in Cologne, and elsewhere across Western Europe.   This predictable lacune in mainstream media reporting is compounded by the universal failure —  of all media outlets —  to comprehend that the shocking events which transpired New Year’s Eve are merely symptomatic of a decades long Islamization process, the “fulfilment” of the dystopian ideal of “Eurabia”  —   From Europe to Eurabia (as analyzed, primarily, in my book, “Sharia Versus Freedom”). There is ubiquitous ignorance about the origins of the term “Eurabia,” despite its not infrequent usage, and a meticulous documentation of the term’s genesis by historian Bat Ye’or.  The intimately related   Dialogue (EAD) was born of the Arab League’s October, 1973 Yom Kippur war against Israel, which ended in another Israeli victory, and the associated oil embargo. The EAD produced an alphabet soup of European Community, and later European   organizations charged with planning joint political, cultural, social, industrial, commercial, and   projects.  Soon afterward, it spawned a European Parliamentary Association for   Cooperation whose members represented a broad spectrum of European Community political groups. Biannual   Parliamentary meetings convened alternately in Europe and the Arab nations. Some 100 European and Arab members of their respective Parliaments attended, in conjunction with observers from the European   Union Commission, the Arab League, and other international organizations. In Damascus, during an initial meeting September   1974, the Arab delegates established their political preconditions for economic agreements with Western Europe, specifically demanding: 1. Israel’s unconditional withdrawal to the 1949 armistice lines, 2. Arab sovereignty over the Old City of Jerusalem, 3. Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) participation (lead by Yasser Arafat) in any negotiations, 4. European Community pressure on the United States to detach it from Israel and bring its policies closer to those of the Arab states, I discovered a remarkable US Department of State [USDOS] memo from the U. S. embassy in Madrid, dated September 19, 1974 [MADRID 05880 191259Z, declassified June 30, 2005] which refers to a parallel, contemporaneous meeting that took place in Cordoba September   1974, as it notes, “  capital of [the] caliphate of Cordoba,  and one of [the] most historic centers of [the] Moorish legacy in Spain. ” What is described as the “emotional and symbolic highlight of the conference” occurred on September 13, 1974:  WHEN MOSLEM CONFEREES WERE ALLOWED TO HOLD MOSLEM PRAYER SERVICE IN CORDOBA’S FAMED  . THIS WAS REPORTEDLY FIRST TIME IN SEVEN CENTURIES, I. E. SINCE 1236 [the] WHEN HUGE CORDOBA MOSQUE WAS CONVERTED INTO CHRISTIAN CATHEDRAL IN WAKE OF CASTILLIAN RECONQUEST OF CITY, THAT A MOSLEM PRAYER SERVICE HAS BEEN HELD IN CORDOBA’S MOSQUE TURNED CATHEDRAL. The State Department analyst, unfortunately, omitted the fact that the “mosque turned cathedral” had simply been restored to a cathedral as a result of the 13th century Castillian reconquest, some   after the   century “conversion” of the original [Visigothic] Christian cathedral to a mosque, resulting from the jihad conquest, brutal subjugation, and resultant   occupation of the Iberian peninsula. However, this document also reveals that the USDOS analyst was fully aware of the advent of “Eurabia,” precisely as   in an official European   journal [see below] bearing the title Eurabia. To the analyst’s credit,   is fully cognizant of the politicization of the   “Palestinian question,” noting “a marked bias for the Arab viewpoint,” even concluding that this biased viewpoint —  fully concordant with the Islam’s jihad supremacism —  was the most salient feature of the Conference. Eurabia was the title of a journal published in the    by the European Committee for the Coordination of Friendship Associations with the Arab World. Eurabia’s editor was Lucien Bitterlin, President of the Association of   Solidarity the journal was published jointly by   associations in London, Paris, and Geneva. Simply put, Eurabia served as a   Dialogue mouthpiece. Let me illustrate but one of the alarming   Dialogue’s conduit functions. During a 1974 Organization of the Islamic Conference [since   Organization of Islamic Cooperation] meeting in Lahore, Pakistan, OIC general secretary Mohammed Hasan Mohammed   highlighted two key related goals: (1) Urgent [convening] of a meeting of specialists in the propagation of Islam on a world level, and the establishment of a Jihad Fund  …    this fund is open with no restrictions  …    in all fields of Jihad, (2) Caring for the affairs of cultural centers in Europe, and the establishment of [additional] cultural centers in the continent, Embodying an insidious aspect of the jihad to which   alluded, i. e. cultural jihadism, the   Dialogue introduced the educational and cultural programs of European Islamic Centers into European schools. Already in 1978, the great historian of Medieval European Islam, Charles Emmanuel Dufourcq, was troubled by the consequences of such dangerous historical and cultural revisionist trends. Dufourcq pondered, balefully, whether “  …    in the waning years of our 20th century  …     there might be a danger of a recurrence, in the immediate future, by other modalities, of the upheaval provoked more than a thousand years ago by Islamic penetration of our continent. ” Eleven years after Dufourcq’s death in 1982, Bat Ye’or (from a 1993 French interview, published in English translation in 1994) echoed his intuitive concerns about Europe’s   and warned more broadly, “I do not see serious signs of a Europeanization of Islam anywhere, a move that would be expressed in a relativization of religion, a   view of the history of Islamic imperialism  …    we are light years away from such a development  …    On the contrary, I think that we are participating in the Islamization of Europe, reflected both in daily occurrences and in our way of thinking  …    All the racist fanaticism that permeates the Arab countries and Iran has been manifested in Europe in recent years  …    ” German Islamologist Karl Binswanger’s 1977 study “Investigations on the Status of   in the Ottoman Empire of the 16th Century, With a New Definition of the Concept ‘Dhimma’” was a pioneering examination of dhimmitude under Ottoman rule. Subsequently, he analyzed Islamic traditionalism in Iran, Syria, and, ominously, within Germany itself.  Binswanger’s seminal 1977 analysis examined the discriminatory and degrading conditions imposed upon   “dhimmis”  —   predominantly Christians  —   subjugated under the Ottoman Turkish Sharia in the 16th century. His study elucidated the key role played by the creation of Muslim “satellite” colonies during the Islamization of these vanquished Christian societies: Geographic integrity is shattered by implanting Islamic nuclei. The sectarian reference point of [subjugated  ] Dhimmi communities is removed, and further sectarian pruning occurs according to Islamic standards. The autonomy of Dhimmis is reduced to an insubstantial thing  …     They are driven out the moment that Islamic nuclei appear in the area. Dhimmis’ possession of their churches is granted. These are closed or razed the as soon as a mosque is established in their neighborhood  …    Regulations in the social area  …    demoralize the individual: [they] are consciously instituted for their degradation. The social environment of the Dhimmis is characterized by fear, uncertainty and degradation. Binswanger, during 1990, published three remarkably prescient essays on the (primarily Turkish) Muslim immigrant community of Germany. Binswanger opens his 1990 essay, “Islamic Fundamentalism in the German Federal Republic: Development, Inventory, Prospects,” with this disturbing illustration: “We reject reform and modernization. We will keep fighting until a godly order is established!” This quotation is not from Cemalettin Kaplan, the ‘Khomeini of Cologne’ but rather from Kadir Baran, the West German national   of the “Idealist Associations” [“Idealistenvereine”] in other words, from a ‘Grey Wolf”. [u]ntil the Autumn of 1987 the federation’s ideology was purely nationalistic, chauvinistically Turkish. This is symptomatic of a development that one can observe among Turks in the Federal Republic of Germany, too, since Khomeini’s victory over the Shah: Islamic fundamentalism is on the march  …     Binswanger then demonstrates how the strident   of Islamic identity within Germany’s Turkish immigrant population engendered, “  …    an increasingly intense demonization of the culture, legal and social order of the host society: the image of Germans as enemies. ” Central to this disturbing process was the inculcation of validating Islamic (i. e. Koranic) motifs which promote hostility to  . Arguably the most accomplished (and easily the most unapologetic) scholar of how the Ottoman Turks progressively imposed the Sharia on   Binswanger became alarmed by the obvious modern parallels to that phenomenon he observed in the behaviors of their contemporary Turkish descendants in Germany. Validating Binswanger’s concerns, two decades afterwards, in 2011, German lawyer, law professor, and veteran television journalist, Joachim Wagner, published a study of the parallel   Islamic “legal” system burgeoning in Germany, entitled Richter ohne Gesetz (“Judges without Laws”). Wagner’s disturbing investigation  —  summarized in English during a two —  part Der Spiegel series —  elucidated how what he terms “Islamic shadow justice” undermines Germany’s Western constitutional legal system, ultimately abrogating even German criminal law. The parallel, indeed superseding application of Sharia within Germany’s Muslim community is a widespread, dangerous phenomenon according to Wagner’s research. Two years before the 2015 bolus of “migrants” from hotbeds of bellicose Islamic supremacism began flooding Germany, alarming data were published in 2013 as part of the Six Country Immigrant Integration Comparative Survey of Turkish and Moroccan Muslim immigrants to Western Europe. Findings from the German Muslims sampled as part of this survey revealed 47 per cent already agreed that “the rules of the Koran are more important to me than the rules of Germany. ” These   dynamics will only accelerate the trends for Islamic law supremacy over Western law in Germany Joachim Wagner crystallized   ago.  Dutch parliamentarian Geert Wilders has emerged as a bold, highly informed popular antagonist to the deeply entrenched Eurabian establishment and its dystopian, malign vision. Responding to the New Year’s eve sexual jihad depredations by mobs of Muslim men in neighboring Cologne, Germany, Wilders’ January 6, 2016 open letter challenged his own Dutch Prime Minister’s shameful silence:     