US Army Major General (Ret.) Paul Vallely, who served in the Vietnam War and was Deputy Commanding General, Pacific Command, has fully endorsed Republican challenger Paul Nehlen, who faces Speaker of the House Paul Ryan in Wisconsin’s First Congressional District, mostly because he feels Ryan has shown incredible weakness in the face of Obama’s agenda, a failing which has led to a weaker America. [Several months ago General Vallely became one of the first former general officers to endorse Donald Trump and now he is joining those who support Wisconsin’s Nehlen.  Ryan has weakened the country, Vallely says, especially on immigration. “Ryan has not stood tall on controlling Obama and government spending, the border or refugee influx,” Vallely recently said. Vallely also criticized President Obama’s many deals with Iran, insisting that giving money and secret, favorable nuclear deals to the Persian nation is akin to “treason. ” During a recent interview with John Fredericks, General Vallely explained his reasons for supporting Nehlen, saying Speaker Ryan has failed to lead in the House. “As we look at the leadership —  or lack of —  in the Hose of Representatives  …     we see that Republican weakness continues,” the general said. “Speaker Ryan is not what I consider a warrior, he has bowed and given the Obama administration everything they want, particularly on the budget. ” Vallely also said that the Republican claim that they have run a good defense and prevented Obama from doing a few things —  a sort of “ ” as Vallely criticized it —  isn’t good enough. “You have to be on the offense, you’ve got to be warriors today, not only to preserve the Republic, but also to protect our borders, overseas, but yet with Obamacare and all the other things that you can list  …     I don’t see a lot of strength in the (Republican) leadership,” he said. The general also insisted that too many in Washington fail to lead as Americans first, instead placing what’s good for the party first. Another reason he supports Nehlen over Ryan is because the Washington establishment, of which Ryan is a principal leader, views policy decisions through a political prism instead of a “reality prism. ” Vallely went on to criticize Ryan for not putting up stronger opposition to Obama’s plans to import Muslim “refugees” into the U. S. The current system, Vallely said, is not set up to vet them to prevent terrorists from slipping in among the legitimate refugees. “You have to vet them,” Vallely said. “You just can’t have all these refugees coming in without vetting them  …     you can’t say, ‘well, we’re America we have to accept everybody,’ it’s like Angela Merkel. No we don’t. We don’t have to accept anybody into this country that will not stand by and support our Constitution, number one, and that can add something to our society. ” Fredericks asked Vallely what he thought of the recent media feeding frenzy over the Democrat Convention appearance of Khizr Khan, the Muslim man whose U. S. Army Captain son lost his life a decade ago in Iraq. Vallely, whose own son died in 2004 while training for Special Forces, said that criticizing Khan was fair game after Kahn put himself up as a “political pawn” for the Clinton campaign. Vallely also noted that as Khan is pointing fingers at Republicans who “didn’t sacrifice anything,” the Democrat’s own candidate has never sacrificed anything, either. Finally, Vallely has issued an “open letter” telling Wisconsin voters why he thinks they should choose Nehlen over Ryan. Whereas, as retired military leaders or veterans formerly responsible for implementing military policy, we are acutely aware of the many ways that Executive and Legislative Branch leadership failures can adversely impact US foreign policy resulting in unnecessary national security risks, Whereas we believe that our representative republic rests on the foundation of principled free speech that seeks to achieve consensus through reasoned debate, Whereas one of the biggest threats to national security is the failure to protect U. S. borders while allowing unfettered immigration, Whereas we believe that clarity of thought, communication, and knowledge of such existential threats to US national security as well as honest dialogue are indispensable for those in leadership positions, Whereas we believe a leader whose actions adversely impact the welfare and lives of US military personnel and their families, especially with regard to the threat posed by open borders and insufficiently vetted immigrants, should be held accountable, Whereas specifically, as Speaker of the U. S. House of Representatives (second in line to the U. S. presidency) Representative Paul Ryan has failed to support border security and failed to hold the President responsible for enforcing U. S. immigration laws and, Whereas these failures, which encourage aggression (rather than diminish it) amongst U. S. adversaries, demand a response and because the upcoming 9 August primary in the State of Wisconsin provides the means for “We the People” to effect that response, thereby bringing an end to these failures, Now therefore be it stated, we, the undersigned, as a matter of conscience, oppose, unequivocally, the   of U. S. House Speaker Paul Ryan, Representative of the Congressional 1st District in Wisconsin, and support in his place Paul Nehlen, who will be a strong advocate for these important national security issues.