As Paul Ryan grows more insistent that he will not be the GOP nominee, Politico’s Mike Allen points out that Ryan is “running the same playbook he did to become [House] speaker: saying he doesn’t want it, that it won’t happen. ”[“In both cases, the maximum leverage is to not want it  —   and to be begged to do it,” Mike Allen explains. “Of course in this environment, saying you don’t want the job is the only way to get it. ”  Indeed, in the weeks ahead of becoming House Speaker, Paul Ryan repeatedly said that he would not become Speaker of the House: 1.) As The Hill reported in September of 2015 in a piece entitled, “Paul Ryan Won’t Run for Speaker”: Ryan, currently the chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, had a succinct,   answer when asked if he wanted to succeed Boehner, following the Speaker’s stunning resignation on Friday morning: ‘No.’ Asked why, the Wisconsin Republican said ‘Because I don’t want to be Speaker.’ [  …    ] ‘This is a job for an empty nester,’ Ryan told reporters on Friday. 2.)   and mass migration enthusiast Rep. Trey Gowdy, who described Ryan as his favorite member of Congress, confirmed Ryan’s opposition to becoming House Speaker, telling the New York Times: “I asked him [Ryan] a while back if he would consider being the speaker. He put his hands on my shoulders and said, ‘I love you guys, but not enough to be your speaker.’ ” 3.) Ryan later restated his refusal to run as House Speaker in a statement released on October 8th. As the Huffington Post reported in a piece entitled, “Paul Ryan Won’t Run For House Speaker”: Rep. Paul Ryan ( .) said he will not enter the race for House speaker. “While I am grateful for the encouragement I’ve received, I will not be a candidate,” Ryan said in a statement Thursday. 4.) Paul Ryan then reiterated his statement to NBC. As Talking Points Memo noted in a piece entitled, “Paul Ryan: Sorry Guys, It’s Still No”: Rep. Paul Ryan ( ) told NBC News through a spokesperson Friday that despite Republicans calling for him to enter the race for Speaker of the House, he’s still not interested. https:  .   ? ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw, The news comes after Rep. Darrell Issa ( ) and other party leaders had said they were campaigning for the House Ways and Means Committee chair, and that Ryan would take the weekend to consider entering the race to succeed John Boehner. Paul has repeatedly disputed he would enter the race, and said Thursday after Rep. Kevin McCarthy ( ) abruptly dropped out of the race: ‘I will not be a candidate.’ 5.) On October 14th, Ryan’s spokesman again confirmed that Ryan had not changed his position on the matter. As Breitbart’s Matt Boyle reported in a piece entitled, “Confirmed, Again: Paul Ryan Is Not Running For Speaker Of The House,” Boyle writes: A spokesman for House Ways and Means Committee Paul Ryan confirms yet again that despite all the donor class and political establishment wooing, Ryan is not running to replace outgoing Rep. John Boehner ( ) as Speaker of the House. ‘His position has not changed, and I cannot predict if it will,’ Brendan Buck, Ryan’s spokesman, told Breitbart News on Wednesday afternoon. Paul Ryan has a   long record of pushing open borders immigration policies. Each year the U. S. adds nearly two migrants for every one GOP primary voter in Wisconsin. As a result of unbridled Muslim migration into the United States, more than half a million U. S. girls  —   and more than 2, 100 girls in Ryan’s home state of Wisconsin  —   are   of suffering the barbaric practice of Female Genital Mutilation. However, Paul Ryan has pushed to expand the pace of Muslim migration into the United States. For instance, as House Speaker, Ryan funded visas for nearly 300, 000 (temporary and permanent) Muslim migrants for this year alone. According to Pew, only 11% of Muslims in the United States are Republican or lean Republican.