WASHINGTON  —   President Trump blamed the news media on Monday morning for “making Obamacare look so good” as he spoke at a listening session with nine people he characterized as “victims” of the health care law. Mr. Trump repeated his declaration that “Obamacare is a disaster”  —   a sentiment echoed more specifically by White House and cabinet officials in the past few days. While it is undeniable that the law has not been universally beneficial, many of the criticisms from Mr. Trump and his team are   or misleading. This needs context. In 2017, premiums for the benchmark plan increased by 22 percent on average across the states that use the federal marketplace or have their own exchanges, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. Some places had higher increases (116 percent in Arizona, the only state with a   increase) and some lower (9 percent in Wyoming). That’s much higher than the 7 percent increase in 2016 and 3 percent increase in 2015, but looking at premium increases alone does not fully capture what people are paying. About 84 percent of enrollees qualify for tax credits that help blunt the costs in 2017, meaning the government picks up the tab for any increase. Factoring in this financial assistance, a    nonsmoker making $30, 000 would see no change, or even a slight reduction, for the benchmark plan in all but two states, the Kaiser Family Foundation estimated. False. About 20 million have gained insurance under the act. The uninsured rate fell to 10. 9 percent at the end of last year, according to Gallup, compared with 17. 1 percent at the end of 2013. Analysis from the Commonwealth Fund concluded that the Affordable Care Act was responsible for a majority of the decline. This is misleading. Researchers at the Urban Institute estimated that roughly 2. 6 million people reported in 2013 that their plans were being canceled because of noncompliance with the A. C. A. But half of these people were eligible for Medicaid or subsidized insurance plans. A 2014 study from the RAND corporation, a nonprofit think tank, concluded that fewer than one million people, not “millions,” ended up with no insurance at all. Most polls also contradict Mr. Trump’s claim that there is a “very small number of people that are happy. ” A majority of enrollees reported satisfaction with the health care law in three national surveys, though some expressed concern with lack of choice and affordability, according to a September 2016 Government Accountability Office review. (The outlier is Black Book Market Research, a public opinion research company based in Florida, which found just 22 percent of enrollees were satisfied.) This is misleading. The Affordable Care Act mandated that businesses with more than 50 employees are required to offer health insurance to employees who work 30 hours or more per week, or pay a penalty. Though there are certainly some anecdotes of employers reducing hours to get around the mandate, studies have been unable to find much evidence of a widespread shift to   employment. This is misleading. Out of the 20 million people who have gained insurance under the law, about 14. 5 million received coverage through Medicaid, 3. 3 million of whom were previously eligible. A majority of these Medicaid enrollments, 11. 2 million, occurred because of the Affordable Care Act’s expansion of the health care program. The health care law raised the eligibility cutoff to adults under 65 who made less than 138 percent of the poverty line. This is misleading. Health costs for   plans have risen in the years since the law was implemented. Independent estimates for the rate of increase hover in the 3 percent to 4 percent range. But this trend was occurring in the years before the Affordable Care Act as well. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that premiums increased by 20 percent from 2011 to 2016, compared to 31 percent from 2006 to 2011 and 63 percent from 2001 to 2006.