Every sign points to an aggressive escalation of   violence against European cities and American citizens, not to mention the American homeland, yet President Barack Obama sees “no existential threat” from radical Islam. [He apparently has bigger worries, such as how to close Gitmo and shut down the FBI investigation of his chosen successor.  This week, the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Pete Hoekstra, and the director of the Investigative Project on Terrorism, Steve Emerson, published a dire warning. However we may define “existential threat,” our nation is in great danger from the combination of the global reach of the jihadists’ murderous capabilities and the lack of any plan or strategy to defend against those escalating threats. Another security expert warns that ISIS is seeking nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, and nothing is “off the table” for them. These are not the marks of a people or a nation serious about protecting America from Islamist plans for our destruction. They are the symptoms of a nation in deep denial. Our President cannot even utter the words “radical Islam,” and our State Department is even censoring the translations of speeches by European leaders if they stray into politically incorrect language. “Islamist terrorists” is forbidden terminology even for foreign statesman whose citizens have been slaughtered by  —   by whom, by “extremists” and “maladjusted migrants?” We have to admit it is not just Barack Obama who stands in the way of an effective counter strategy against radical Islam. Even with a new president in the White House, serious obstacles will remain. Maybe if two dozen   jihadist warriors appear on Martha’s Vineyard and wreck mayhem during one of Obama’s frequent family vacations, perhaps then our leaders will awaken to the realities of “asymmetrical warfare” waged by an enemy who has only contempt for the Geneva Convention. The problem here is not that the Islamist enemy is invincible the problem is that the depth of our complacency seems bottomless. After each new Islamist atrocity such as the November attack in San Bernardino, we react with shock and alarm —   but nothing changes. We learned after San Bernardino that the State Department bureaucrat who looked at the woman’s background before approving her visa did not notice that the address she listed for her home in Pakistan was a vacant lot. And yet we trust this same system to spot jihadists among refugees whose homes have been destroyed in   civil war?  Efforts to suspend the dangerously broken refugee program are greeted by cries of “Islamophobia!” by the enforcers of political correctness. Such tactics may delay the day of reckoning, but that day will come soon nonetheless.