With the help of Twitter user, @real_peerreview, I’ve put together a list of the craziest academic works, straight from the minds of the PhD candidates and faculty members who helped architect the coddling culture that is currently taking hold of American college campuses. [In an effort to be objective, the author’s own language is directly used as much as possible in this analysis.  The List: 1. “Sexy warriors: the politics and pleasures of submission to the state” ”War is sexy in contemporary US culture” https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) May 2, 2016,  Jesse Paul   who received a Ph. D in International Relations at North Carolina State University, wrote his dissertation on why “war is sexy in contemporary US culture. ” The paper, which was titled “Sexy warriors: the politics and pleasures of submission to the state” allowed   to become an Assistant Professor in Public and International Affairs at NC State. 2. “Pornographic Animals”  Combining animal studies with visual sociology can be a bit creepy. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) May 2, 2016,  “Pornographic Animals” is a text written by R. Malamud to explore the intersection of visual sociology and human sexuality. In this groundbreaking work, published by Palgrave Macmillan, Malamud writes about   intercourse and why humans are sexually attracted to animals. 3. “The Nuances and Complexities of Teaching Mathematics for Cultural Relevance and Social Justice” On the racist nature of mathematics https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) April 3, 2016,  A team of faculty members, primarily based at Temple University in Philadelphia, PA, produced this   work about the intersection of mathematics and racism in America. According to the paper’s author, “Mathematics is not a   subject. ”4. “Smart Cookies: The Gendered Spaces of Labor, Citizenship, and Nationalism in the Girl Scout Cookie Sale” A 2013 PhD dissertation warns against the dangers of selling Girl Scout Cookies https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) April 4, 2016,  This 2013 PhD dissertation points out the danger of selling of girl scout cookies and argues that the practice “prepares girls for their roles as American women in a neoliberal and capitalist society. ” According to the author, the girl scout cookie selling tradition is responsible for aiding in unconscious female support of “market capitalism, neoliberalism, and American nationalism. ” The dissertation argues that the annual girl scout cookie sale manipulates young girls into blindly accepting American society’s expected role for women. 5. “Whiteness and Farmers Markets: Performances, Perpetuations   …     Contestations?” Sociologists identify a problem within farmers markets: Whiteness https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) April 7, 2016,  This paper argues that “whiteness” plagues the American agriculture industry and concludes that farmers must adopt “  politics of food” if the industry is to survive. 6. “The Moving Body and Social Change” Fighting capitalism by moving around and doing Pilates? https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) April 18, 2016,  Pirkko Markula of the University of Alberta argues that one of the best ways to fight capitalism is through personal exercise routines. According to Markula, through her “experiences as a fitness instructor” the work “explore[s] if it is possible to practice movement differently beyond the biopolitics of  . ” Markula’s online profile on Psychology Today, claims that she is not only “a professor of   studies of physical activity at the University of Alberta, Canada,” but also “a Pilates instructor and contemporary dancer. ” Her research interests include “exploring the intersection of culture, gender, and exercise. 7. “The Pilates Pelvis: Racial Implications of the Immobile Hips” Study confirms what we all had feared Pilates is racist! https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) April 29, 2016,  According to Sarah W. Holmes of the Dance Research Journal, pilates is racist because “the teaching practices of the hips, as commonly explained in Pilates educational manuals, reinforce behaviors of a   and racially “white” aesthetic. Holmes makes this argument “by examining the intersections between dance and Pilates history. ”  Holmes suggests that this work explains why “embodied discourses in Pilates are “white” in nature,” and why Pilates is “a product of historically constructed social behaviors of dominant   culture. ” 8. “Transgressive and negotiated White racial knowledge” The general complicity of white teachers in racism (n=6). https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) May 1, 2016,  This work, by Ryan M. Crowley, an Assistant Professor of Social Studies Education at the University of Kentucky, studies the experiences of six white teachers placed in “an   teacher preparation program. ”  He claims that all white teachers have a tendency towards racist behavior in the classroom by suggesting that white teachers “often deploy  …    subtle distancing strategies  …    to release themselves from complicity in racism. ” 9. “The Parallel Lives of Women and Cows: Meat Markets” When gender and critical animal studies finally collide  …     https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) May 2, 2016,  Jean O’Malley Halley is an Associate Professor of Sociology in the Departments of Sociology and Anthropology at Wagner College, where she produced the book, “The Parallel Lives of Women and Cows. ” According to its description on Amazon, the book suggests that in America, women and cows are treated similarly: “When we say that a woman is treated like a ‘piece of meat,’ what do we really mean? Jean Halley explores the intersection between violence against women and violence against animals. First, Halley ruminates on the myriad ways that cruelty and trauma permeate the lives of women and girls, using her own story as a living example. ” The Kindle version of this textbook is available on Amazon for the bargain price of $72. 10. “Education for Whom?” Paper suggests that mathematics engages in the exploitation of people and the environment. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) May 2, 2016,  This 2016 paper by Anita Bright of The Journal of Culture  Education argues that most math textbooks contain examples that are problematic. According to Bright, some practice problems “reify hegemony, the exploitation of people, and a marked disregard for the environment. ” The paper argues that practice problems that reinforce concepts of oppression and disregard for the environment subconsciously manipulate young minds into blindly accepting the evils of American society. Bright suggests searching for ways that math educators can “disrupt the current narratives of inequity, waste, exploitation, and the privilege of particularly narrow perspectives,” by writing math textbooks containing example problems with “more equitable inclusive, sustainable, and critical perspectives. ” 11. “Hobosexual”  Resisting capitalism by having    sex with homeless people. . @xianyu118 Resisting capitalism by having    sex with homeless people https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) May 1, 2016,  In The Journal of Lesbian Studies, Heather Tapley introduces the term “hobosexual” which is “a concept representative of   practices in both sex and labor. ” In this essay, Tapley suggests that LGBT individuals having sex in urban areas is an act of protest against the American capitalistic society. 12. “Wearing a Gay Slogan   in the Higher Education Classroom: A Cautionary Tale” Experimental research designs in gender studies may need some refinement https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) April 30, 2016,  Victoria Clarke of the University of the West of England, published this essay detailing an experiment she conducted where she analyzed her student’s reactions to various shirts she wore with   slogans. 13. “Glory Holes and the Men Who Use Them” The statement that glory holes are highly prevalent is based on a study with 10 participants https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   | (@real_peerreview) April 30, 2016,  “Testimonies, drawn from interviews with ten openly homosexual men in San Francisco who have used glory holes for sexual encounters with varying frequency, form the bulk of the paper, testifying to the diverse motivations, experiences and perceptions that make the glory hole appealing to its users. ” Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or on Facebook. You can email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com