Katy Perry, Elton John, Jamie Foxx, and other celebrities raised money for the Hillary Clinton Victory Fund during a March 2 New York City fundraiser. [The fundraiser also featured Julianne Moore, criticizing the NRA, and former president Bill Clinton, ridiculing Republican frontrunner Donald Trump.  According to The Daily Beast, Perry said, “I think we need to elect a president that can do all parts of the job, including being   . A person that is strong but also a human   …     that looks out for us and our needs, our basic human rights and needs, which I can’t believe are still in question in 2016. ” She suggested Hillary Clinton is such a person, saying, “I do believe [Hillary Clinton] believes in unconditional love. She sees equally, all parts. ” Jamie Foxx was there to introduce “Grammy nominee Andra Day,” and Julianne Moore was there to criticize the NRA and to make Clinton’s support for gun control a central issue. Moore said: As a parent, and as a citizen, I have had it, and that’s why I’ve joined forces with Everytown for Gun Safety. And, it’s one of the many reasons I’m proud to support Hillary Clinton for president —  someone who knows it’s not enough to offer condolences after a tragedy, that we have to do whatever we can to prevent the next one from happening, and someone who’s not afraid to stand up for the NRA and who will keep fighting for common sense gun reform. Both Clinton and Moore support efforts to pressure Congress into passing the same expanded background checks that already exist in California, Colorado, and Washington State. But Breitbart News previously reported that these checks are demonstrably impotent against determined attackers. Such checks only succeed in making it harder for   citizens to get the guns they need for  . For example, although expanded background checks are the law of the land in California, that state witnessed the May 2014 Santa Barbara attack at the hands of Elliot Rodger and the San Bernardino terror attack on December 2, 2015. Such checks are also the law of the land in Colorado, but that state witnessed the Planned Parenthood gunman on November 27 and a   gunman on Halloween day. Expanded background checks are also the law of the land in Washington state, but four people were killed by an unnamed gunman on February 26, 2016. Yet Clinton, Moore, and other gun control advocates are pressing for these checks to be instituted nationally as a way to reduce gun violence. Tickets to the Hillary Clinton fundraiser ranged “from $125 to $2, 700,” and “sponsors of the event gave over $100, 000 as well. ” AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.