In his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention on Thursday night, GOP nominee Donald Trump championed Americans who have been “ignored, neglected and abandoned” by globalist trade and immigration policies. [“A number of these reforms that I will outline tonight will be opposed by some of our nation’s most powerful special interests,” he said. “That’s because these interests have rigged our political and economic system for their exclusive benefit. Believe me  —   it’s for their benefit. ”  Trump continued: Big business, elite media and major donors are lining up behind the campaign of my opponent because they know she will keep our rigged system in place. They are throwing money at her because they have total control over every single thing she does. She is their puppet, and they pull the strings. That is why Hillary Clinton’s message is that things will never change  —   never ever. My message is that things have to change  —   and they have to change right now. [Applause] Every day I wake up determined to deliver a better life for the people all across this nation that have been ignored, neglected and abandoned. I have visited the   factory workers, and the communities crushed by our horrible and unfair trade deals. These are the forgotten men and women of our country. And they are forgotten, but they’re not going to be forgotten long. These are people who work hard but no longer have a voice. I am your voice. [Applause] I have embraced crying mothers who have lost their children because our politicians put their personal agendas before the national good. I have no patience for injustice —   [Audience chants “USA!” as a protester interrupts the speech and is escorted out by security.] How great are our police? And how great is Cleveland? [Applause] Thank you. I have no patience for injustice. No tolerance for government incompetence, of which there is so much. No sympathy for leaders who fail their citizens. When innocent people suffer, because our political system lacks the will, or the courage, or the basic decency to enforce our laws  —   or still worse, has sold out to some corporate lobbyist for cash  —   I am not able to look the other way, and I won’t look the other way.