Milo Yiannopoulos’ event at DePaul University had to be cut short Tuesday night after protesters stormed the stage, blew whistles, grabbed the microphone out of the interviewer’s hand, and threatened to punch Yiannopoulos in the face.[   Yiannopoulos attempted to continue the event, but protesters refused to leave the stage and the group of security guards (which DePaul forced both the organisers and Breitbart to pay for) refused to intervene. The male ringleader continued to pace along the stage with his whistle, refusing to let Yiannopoulos speak for extended amounts of time, while the female ringleader forcibly snatched the microphone from the interviewer’s hand and shouted at Yiannopoulos just inches away from his face. The male ringleader screamed “Feel the Bern” and chanted against Donald Trump, whilst the female ringleader chanted “Black Lives Matter”.  Responding to the amount of black female protesters who had turned up, Yiannopoulos hypothesized that it was because he had sex with their brothers. “I give it 20 minutes” announced Yiannopoulos. “The black incarceration rates are about to go up”.   They tried to move a white lady when they realized she’s with the blacks they let her stay #Depaul #privilege pic. twitter.   —   Furby. jpg (@duckspeakeasy) May 24, 2016,  The female ringleader also claimed that she had been silenced “for 200 years” prompting Yiannopoulos to question how the supposed 200   protester looked so young.  After an extended period of time, the crowd started to chant “Do your job” at security, who remained at the back of the venue for the entire event. When security refused to intervene, Yiannopoulos posed for pictures with fans in the audience, and ordered the crowd to follow him to the college president’s office. Milo protest walk https:  .   —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) May 25, 2016,  “I suggest we walk to the president’s office and complain now. Let us go and express how you feel to the president about your safety” he remarked. . @nero brought the party outside after inaction from spineless cops pic. twitter.   —   Furby. jpg (@duckspeakeasy) May 24, 2016,  After Milo and most of the crowd left in a march for the president’s office, a minor scuffle between protesters and fans occurred back by the stage. Black Lives Matter and Milo fans chanted against each other outside the venue, with Milo’s fans chanting “USA” and “Breitbart!” More @nero   in the street. pic. twitter.   —   Will Ross (@SawmillLoris) May 25, 2016,  Outside the event, mayhem continued, with Milo’s   audience clashing with a huge crowd of   activists. One attendee, Matt Forney, was grabbed by activists as he attempted to film the march. SJW protesters assaulting people who came to see @Nero speak at #DePaul. #depaulagainsthate pic. twitter.   —   Matt Forney (@basedmattforney) May 25, 2016,  Yiannopoulos confirmed to his followers that he had not suffered harm and blasted the school’s security officers for their failure to intervene. LIVE on #Periscope: I’m alive! https:  .   —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) May 25, 2016,  Appalling that @DePaulU security, which I paid for, refused to remove a man from stage who threatened to hit me.  —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) May 25, 2016,  More to follow  …     Listen to Milo’s discussion of this on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125: 