NEW YORK CITY, New York  —   Thousands of progressive protesters intend to swarm New York City tonight to protest 2016 GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump, but the frontrunner says he isn’t worried. [In an exclusive interview with Breitbart News on Thursday afternoon, he said he’s “greatly honored” they’re targeting him as he thinks that’s proof he’s the only Republican who can win the general election.  “It’s Hillary and Bernie teaming up because the last person they want to run against is Donald Trump,” Trump told Breitbart News. “They’re desperate because they don’t want to make America great again,” Trump added. “They are desperate because they want to do the exact opposite of what I want to do. They do not want to make America great again. Many of these people aren’t protesters, they’re agitators. Many of these people are paid to be there. These are in some cases professionals. It’s fine with me. ” Trump also said he’s “greatly honored” the protesters are forming a coalition of labor unions fighting for a $15 minimum wage, Black Lives Matter, and an amalgamation of other progressives united to stop Trump. The protesters, which have already been active all day, will converge on the Grand Hyatt in Midtown Manhattan to protest Trump. “I’m greatly honored,” Trump said. “I’m greatly honored. The last person they want running is Donald Trump because they know I’m going to win. I’m greatly honored by all of the paid protesters and all of the professional agitators that will be there. ” Trump added that he believes this is proof the progressives aren’t worried about Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) because ultimately they think Cruz is easy to beat in the general election with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Cruz and Ohio Gov. John Kasich are also speaking at the gala at the Grand Hyatt, but the protesters intend to focus on Trump. “They don’t care about Cruz because Cruz will lose so badly it will be the greatest defeat in the history of politics,” Trump said. “They only worry about me because I’m the only one that’s going to beat her, and I’ll beat her easily. ” Trump considers, as he told Breitbart News, these “professional agitators” as he calls them to be causing “tremendous problems” for   people across the United States. The people that are coming in —  like Bill Ayers, Ayers was in Chicago, okay?” Trump said, referencing protests in Chicago that shut down his planned speech there. “These are professionals —  these are people that come in and make disturbance and they’re causing tremendous problems for wonderful people who just want to Make America Great Again. They are, in many cases, they come from campaigns on the Democratic side. From Hillary and from Bernie because the last person that Hillary wants to run against is Donald Trump. Believe me. I know people in her campaign. I want to tell you —  she does not want any part of me. You see what I’ve done to everybody else. There were 17, we started off with 17. Now we’re down to the leftovers. Trump said the reason why Democrats are worried about him in a general election —  and the reason why they’re organizing against him like this —  is because he will win a whole bunch of crossover voters. “They’re worried because the Democrats are all going to cross over to vote for me,” Trump said. It’s not reflected in the polls because the polls don’t take into account —  they’re worried because all the Democrats, if you look at these states that have crossover, I was getting 20 to 25 percent of Democrats voting for me. Look, what the Democrats are doing is they’re trying to make a disturbance because they’re worried that if I get the nomination, many Democrats are going to come over —  and I get most of the independents. And you know what? There’s also a lot of people who have never voted before. I’ll tell you, I’m in line signing autographs and taking pictures and meeting people by the thousands. I’ll tell you every time, it’s like 10 people every event that come up to me and say, ‘Mr. Trump, I’ve never voted before.’ You know, like    people that have never voted before but they have a Trump shirt on and everything else. If the Republicans play games and the Republicans are foolish and they play around and do something very, very foolish, they will lose these people. And we have millions. The biggest story in politics is millions and millions of people are voting for me.