Author and historian Diana West challenges the Democratic National Committee’s (DNC) highlight of Khizr Khan at their national convention: “Don’t you people vet your speakers? ”[From DianaWest. net:  Dear DNC, Doubtless, I would reach more people if I wrote the following message in a private, hackable email, but I am concerned Russian   are distracted this week by heaps more breaking scandal about Hillary Clinton’s loyal services to what some people like to call “Mother Russia. ” Between that   uranium deal transferring 20 percent of US uranium to Russian control (netting $145 million for the Clinton Foundation) and, now, her success in getting US investors to fund Russian military research in Russia’s very own “Silicon Valley,” I am afraid my little email might languish unread on some cold NSA server. If anyone in Russia is reading, though, do pass along a suggested name change for that Russian RD hub Hillary has done so much for: “Clinticon Valley” has a wonderful ring to it, don’t you think? Or, maybe better  —   Clinticonovna Valley. My subject today, though, is the   Khizr Khan (above) who caused such an uproar at the DNC as the father of a fallen US officer in Iraq, Capt. Humayun Khan, killed in action in 2004, that he now wishes to exit the limelight and has even scrubbed his own website, the one listing his immigration legal services in the (strictly legit!) sale of visas to foreign millionaires. The question I have is: Don’t you people vet your speakers? Do you even realize now that by inviting Khizr Khan to speak you that put a sharia supremacist on centerstage at the 2016 Democratic National Committee Convention to endorse a candidate for president of the United States? Hello? Is that the message you want to send America  —   that the Democratic Party is also the Sharia Party? I do not exaggerate. Young Capt. Khan’s ultimate sacrifice for this country is something all Americans respect and mourn. But his father’s sharia supremacism is something all Americans who defend the Constitution that Khizr Khan was waving around like a prop must learn is the ideological foe of that Constitution, just as much as Communism ever was  —   I mean, is. Islam, like Communism, is a totalitarian movement targeting, not through “workers’ revolution,” but jihad and the spread of sharia, our liberties that come to us from the God of the Old and New Testament (not the God of the Koran, who behaves quite differently). These   liberties are enshrined in our founding documents. They are not props. Read the rest of the article here.