Los Angeles Police Department Chief Charlie Beck said Friday that UCLA gunman Mainak Sarkar purchased his firearms “legally. ”[Sarkar allegedly shot and killed    Ashley Hasti in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, and then traveled to Los Angeles, where he allegedly shot and killed professor William Klug on the UCLA campus on June 1.  According to NBC News, chief Beck said Sarkar had two handguns, both of which had been “purchased legally. ” Beck also said that “at least one of the guns” was registered to Sarkar. As Breitbart News previously reported, the phrase “legally purchased” means Sarkar passed a background check for the handguns, or at least one of them. It also means Sarkar now joins a long and growing list of attackers and alleged attackers who passed background checks for their firearms as well. Those include: Sayed Farook and Tashfeen Malik (San Bernardino) Noah Harpman (Colorado Springs) Chris Harper Mercer (Umpqua Community College) Vester Lee Flangan (Virgina) John Russell Houser  (Lafayette) Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez (Chattanooga) Dylann Roof (Charleston) Elton Simpson and Nadir Soofi (Garland) Jared and Amanda Miller (Las Vegas) Elliot Rodger (Santa Barabara) Ivan Lopez (Fort Hood 2014) Darion Marcus Aguilar (Maryland mall) Karl Halverson Pierson (Arapahoe High School) Paul Ciancia (LAX) Andrew John Engeldinger (Minneapolis) Aaron Alexis (DC Navy Yard) Tennis Melvin Maynard (West Virginia) Wade Michael Page (Sikh Temple) James Holmes (Aurora theater) Jared Loughner (Tucson) Nidal Hasan (Fort Hood 2009) Jiverly Wong (Binghamton)   Cho (Virginia Tech) Naveed Haq (Seattle) and Mark Barton (Atlanta). Yet former Rep. Gabby Giffords, Senator Joe Manchin ( ) and President Barack Obama are pushing for expanded background checks on a national scale  —   as a way to keep us safe, no less. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.  