A gang of 12 men who raped a vulnerable schoolgirl before “casting her aside” have been sentenced to a total of 140 years imprisonment. [The Telegraph  Argus reports that ten of the men were convicted of raping the girl in the town of Keighley when he was between 13 and 14 years old, while another was found guilty of sexual activity with the girl. A twelfth man had already pleaded guilty to rape and sexual activity with a child.  The trial last year heard how the girl was “raped in car parks, parks and churchyards” in the small town in the north of England. Judge Roger Thomas QC told Bradford Crown Court: “In 40 years of practice, I have never seen a dock that has been as insolent and disrespectful as this one. I have the poorest of opinions about the defendants. ” The court heard how the man branded the girl a “little white slag” and a “white bastard” as she laid crying on the floor. She was passed around the gang by a “nasty”    drug dealer named Ahmed   who allegedly first raped her in a churchyard after she refused to continue delivering drugs for him. He is thought to have fled abroad. The sentences were: Yasser Kabir, 25, was found guilty of three counts of rape and jailed for 15 years for each count. He was given a further five years for abusing two girls when he was a boy. Tauqueer Hussain, 23, was found guilty of two counts of rape and will serve a total of 18 years in jail. Sufyan Ziarab, 23, was convicted of two counts of rape and give two 15 year sentences. Bilala Ziarab, 21, was given two 12 year sentences for rape. Nazir Khan, 24, was found guilty of one count and rape and given 13 years. Faisal Khan, 27, was also given 13 years for one count of rape. Hussain Sardar, 19, was convicted of one count of rape and will serve six years in a young offenders’ institution. Saqib Younis, 29, was given 13 years for one count of rape. Zain Ali, 20, was sentenced to eight years in a young offenders’ institution as he was under 18 when committing the offences. Israr Ali, 19, was sentenced to     years in a young offenders’ institution. Mohammed Akram, 63, was jailed for five years for sexual activity with the girl. Khalid Raja Mahmood, 34, is already in prison for raping another girl. He was jailed for a further 17 years. Detective Chief Inspector Nicola Bryar of the Homicide and Major Enquiry Team said: “We are pleased that these men have now been sentenced for their terrible crimes against vulnerable young girls. “We would like again to praise the victims for their courage in coming forward and enabling these men to be put before the courts. We hope that today’s sentences will give them some closure and help them with rebuilding their lives. ”