The Hulk Hogan vs. Gawker trial began on Monday in St. Petersburg, Florida. The trial follows Hogan’s decision to sue after the controversial   blogging network posted Hogan’s private sex tape in 2012 without permission. [Hogan, also known as Terry Bollea, claims that the sex tape, featuring him having sexual intercourse with a friend’s wife, was filmed without his knowledge and is currently suing Gawker Media, the publication who leaked the video, for $100 million.  The trial has been an exciting and insightful look into not only the case, but also Hogan’s personal life and public persona, as well as Gawker, their staff, and everything in between. Here are five new things we’ve learnt from the trial.  “Do you have any doubt, as you sit in that witness stand today, that you were discussing the length of your penis on Bubba [Bollea’s friend]’s radio programme?” Bollea was asked. “Well, it’s not mine, because mine isn’t that size,” replied Bollea holding his hand to his heart. “We were discussing the length of Hulk Hogan’s”. Upon being further enquired about the size of Bollea’s heavyweight manhood, Bollea reiterated his answer, stating “Seriously I do not have a   penis. I do not. Seriously”. “Can you imagine a situation where a celebrity sex tape would not be newsworthy?” asked Hogan’s lawyer. “If they were a child,” replied the 41   former Gawker   . “Under what age?” enquired Hogan’s lawyer. “Four,” replied Daulerio bluntly. “No    sex tapes, OK,” confirmed Hogan’s lawyer. I’m not sure whether this means that Daulerio would’ve hit “publish” on a sex tape featuring a   or   old celebrity, but his statement was extremely questionable at best, and prompted a huge amount of backlash on social media. The political commentator and host was due to have Hogan on his show in late 2012, but his appearance was allegedly cancelled after Gawker leaked the sex tape. Hannity reportedly didn’t want to have to ask about it. Last June in the lead up to the Gawker trial, Florida Judge Pamela Campbell granted Hogan permission to wear one of his iconic bandannas in court, as long as it were of a plain and smart colour (Hogan opted for black). Headwear is usually banned from being worn in court. Upon being asked questions about gossip news outlet TMZ, Hogan’s defence implied that the former wresting champion had spared the website for its coverage of the events, because they’re an outlet he “seems to enjoy very much. ” It was also expressed that Hogan “didn’t have a problem” with TMZ’s coverage of the leaked sex tape, and he was happy to give them an interview despite a colleague reportedly advising him that it was beneath him to speak to them. Charlie Nash is a frequent contributor to Breitbart Tech and former editor of the Squid Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington.