Whatever the Iowa result, Dr. Ben Carson says he’s in it for the long run and revealed he will fly to Florida tonight for a couple days’ rest  —   and a “fresh set of clothes”  —   before traveling to the next primary states, including New Hampshire and South Carolina. [“Contrary to false media reports, Dr. Ben Carson is not suspending his presidential campaign, which is stronger than ever. After spending 18 consecutive days on the campaign trail, Dr. Carson needs to go home and get a fresh set of clothes,” said the statement.  “He will be departing Des Moines later tonight to avoid the snow storm and will be back on the trail Wednesday. We look forward to tonight’s caucus results and to meaningful debates in New Hampshire and South Carolina,” the statement says. CNN reports he will go to the annual National Prayer Breakfast in Washington, D. C. on Thursday, Feb 4.  The Carson campaign has intensified efforts to reach as many people as possible, having engaged in a “mobile domination” ad push on the day of the Iowa Caucus. “We’re looking for a complete domination of mobile in Iowa,” Ken Dawson, the head of digital marketing for the Carson campaign, told the Wall Street Journal. “A lot of these folks have never caucused before and this could provide a last little push. ” Making one final plea to Iowa voters on Monday afternoon, Carson took to Facebook, where he has over five million fans. Carson wrote: As President, I will wage war against Radical Islamic Terrorism, passionately defend our Constitution, secure our national borders, and revitalize our national economy. I hope the good people of Iowa will consider caucusing for a candidate that will be uncompromising in upholding these values. The retired neurosurgeon remains confident that his campaign will outperform expectations. “We are climbing,” Carson told CNBC Monday morning. “There’s a tendency for a lot of the media to ignore me. But the people are not ignoring me,” “Here’s the thing people are not paying attention to: This generation is the first one in the history of America not expected to do better than their parents. And that’s the beginning of a trend,” he said. “People say it’s the new normal. But there’s nothing normal about it, and we shouldn’t expect it,” The latest Des Moines Register poll had Carson in the   in Iowa, with 10% of the vote among likely voters.