Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sander ( ) said, “If we run against Trump, we’ll beat him. I am absolutely confident that we can win the general election. ”  Partial transcript as follows: STEPHANOPOULOS: ‘Well, that’s the other key question, can you win the general election? And you heard what Secretary Clinton had to say about those other Democrats who are concerned that you, a democratic socialist, you’re going to get slapped with that label, you’re not going to be able to win in a general election. ” SANDERS: “Well, look, in terms of what people are going to get slapped with, look at the front pages today in terms of what Secretary Clinton is getting slapped with. ” STEPHANOPOULOS: “What is it?” SANDERS: “But here is the point. Well, you  —   you know, you know as well as I do, it has to do with emails. But what is more important is that our campaign is generating an enormous amount of excitement and enthusiasm all over this country. We are bringing large numbers of people into the political process. Democrats win elections when large numbers of people come out and vote. That’s what Obama did in 2008. That’s what we can do right now. Republicans win elections when people are demoralized and voter turnout is low. So I think there is no question but that we have the excitement. Second of all, George, just look at some of the polls that are out there. Look at polls that come from battleground states in terms of Wisconsin, New Hampshire, Iowa. Sanders versus Trump, we do a lot better than Hillary Clinton does against Trump. National polls, we’re doing better against Trump. Will they throw the kitchen sink at me? They sure will. We’ve got a lot to throw at them. The American people do not want to vote for Republicans who want to cut Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid and give huge tax breaks to billionaires Republicans who refuse to even acknowledge the reality of climate change, let alone do something about it Republicans who are bought and sold by billionaires and corporate America. If we run against Trump, we’ll beat him. I am absolutely confident that we can win the general election. ” Follow Pam Key On Twitter @pamkeyNEN