The reaction by Texas leaders to the U. S. Supreme Court’s ruling striking down the Lone Star State’s abortion law was strong and swift. [The United States Supreme Court issued a decision which is a significant blow to Texas abortion law by striking down Texas House Bill 2 (HB 2). As reported by Breitbart Texas, the nation’s highest court has struck down HB 2 in a   decision in the case of Whole Woman’s Health et al. v. Hellerstedt. The legislation was signed into law by then Governor Rick Perry in 2013.  Texas Governor Greg Abbott said that “The decision erodes States’ lawmaking authority to safeguard the health and safety of women and subjects more innocent life to being lost. Texas’ goal is to protect innocent life, while ensuring the highest health and safety standards for women. ” Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, whose office argued the case at the United States Supreme Court on March 2 responded, “HB2 was an effort to improve minimum safety standards and ensure capable care for Texas women. It’s exceedingly unfortunate that the court has taken the ability to protect women’s health out of the hands of Texas citizens and their   representatives. ” “Today’s United States Supreme Court ruling striking down House Bill 2 (HB 2) is a devastating blow to the protection of the health and safety of women in Texas,” said Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick in a press release obtained by Breitbart Texas. He explained, “HB 2 was passed during the 83rd Texas legislative session to ensure the health and safety of women by holding abortion clinics to the same standards as ambulatory surgical centers while also requiring practitioners to have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles of the facility. ” “Now abortion clinics are free to ignore these basic safety standards and continue practicing under substandard conditions. By its ruling, the Court held that the ability of abortion clinics to remain open  —   even under substandard conditions  —  outweighs the state’s ability to put women’s health and safety first. Despite today’s devastating impact on women’s health care, and as the proud author of the sonogram bill and   of HB 2, I remain committed to protecting women’s health and safety,” added the Texas Lt. Governor. Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.