On September 14 Missouri’s Republican lawmakers overrode Governor Jay Nixon’s (D) veto of SB 656 and made Missouri the newest “Stand Your Ground” state. [Breitbart News previously reported that the veto override also abolished permitting requirements for   citizens who wish to exercise their Second Amendment rights by carrying handguns on their persons for  .  When SB 656 passed the legislature earlier this year the addition of a Stand Your Ground statute was a key focus. On May 13 Missouri. net reported Democrat opposition to the Stand Your Ground provision. Representative Lauren Arthur (  City) called it “a stupid, dangerous piece of legislation” and Representative Tracy Newman ( . Louis) said it would “result in the loss of life. ” But Representative Rick Brattin ( ) countered and explained that the measure was actually part of a larger attempt to ensure Missourians had “the right and ability to protect [themselves] by all means. ” Stand Your Ground provisions came under heavy scrutiny by Democrats throughout the country after George Zimmerman was acquitted in the February 26, 2012, shooting death of Trayvon Martin. Democrats seized on Florida’s Stand Your Ground law as causal in Martin’s death without noting that Zimmerman was not acquitted because of Stand Your Ground but because the jury believed his actions were an exercise of  . In addition to enacting “Stand Your Ground” and abolishing the requirement for a concealed carry permit, the override of Nixon’s veto also expands the state’s Castle Doctrine to protect babysitters and other house guests who use guns in defense of children and family members in the home. Castle Doctrine laws protect homeowners who use lethal force in protecting their lives while in their homes or on their property. SB 656 expands Missouri law so that guests of the homeowner —  including baby sitters —  are protected by Castle Doctrine provisions as well. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.