SEOUL, South Korea  —   South Koreans will go to the polls in May to elect a successor to Park   whose presidency ended last week in a historic court ruling, the government announced on Wednesday. The vote will be May 9, nearly two months after the Constitutional Court decision last Friday, which formally removed Ms. Park from office. The ruling approved the National Assembly’s December vote to impeach her. By law, the country must elect a new president within 60 days of the ruling, and all the major political parties have announced schedules for primary races to select their candidates. Prime Minister Hwang   who is serving as acting president, announced the date of the election. He also said that he would not run for the job, choosing to focus instead on his role as acting president during the transition period. Mr. Hwang, an ally of Ms. Park, had been cited as a potential candidate for conservatives in a race in which Moon   a liberal opposition leader, has been the consistent  . South Korea’s conservative camp, which has led the country for the last nine years, has been deeply discredited by the scandal engulfing Ms. Park and her former aides. In recent surveys, Mr. Hwang has been the only viable potential conservative candidate, but he has still ranked a distant second in the surveys, or third behind Ahn   a liberal provincial governor. “I know there are people who want me to run,” Mr. Hwang said on Wednesday. “But I have concluded that it is not appropriate for me to run and that I should focus on working for the stability of state affairs and the fair management of the presidential election. ” Ms. Park was the first South Korean leader forced from office under popular pressure since the country’s founding president, Syngman Rhee, fled into exile in Hawaii in 1960. Also on Wednesday, prosecutors summoned Ms. Park for questioning in the scandal. Although prosecutors have identified Ms. Park as a criminal suspect accused of bribery, extortion and abuse of power in recent months, they could not indict her or even summon her by force while she was president. But now that she is an ordinary citizen, prosecutors told her to appear for questioning next Tuesday. Prosecutors said that she conspired with her secretive longtime confidante, Choi   to collect tens of millions of dollars from big businesses like Samsung, and that some of the money represented bribes for political favors. Ms. Choi is already under arrest and on trial.