In a   interview with Breitbart    Alex Marlow on Thursday’s edition of Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM, nationally syndicated radio talk show host Michael Savage described tech giants like Facebook and Google “  states that crush opposition viewpoints. ”[“I denounce U. S. multinationals like Facebook. Why is [Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg] outsourcing tech jobs? Why? Because he’s a greedy, greedy man, and he should be taken down under   legislation, as far as I’m concerned,” Savage said.  Marlow, who was interviewing Savage about his new book Scorched Earth: Restoring the Country After Obama, referenced a chapter in the book where Savage accused companies like Facebook, Google, and YouTube of working toward a globalist agenda, working with both major American political parties to undermine American citizens, while using their editorial control over media content to support their political partners. “Mark Zuckerberg’s company is more powerful than some small countries, by a large margin,” he noted, adding: He’s running a nation he’s not running a company. He’s become a transnational nation. His presence is stronger than that of most African nations. ‘Great, good for him. I thought we live in a free market. Shouldn’t people be allowed to do what they want to do in business and survive?’ I hear that from people who don’t understand that our nation has   legislation, and it was established to prevent monopolies from emerging and crushing competition. And Alex, remember the populist, Teddy Roosevelt, one of his campaign slogans was ‘Bust the Trusts.’ He swore that when he became President that he would break up Standard Oil. He’d break up the railroads under Rockefeller, because he controlled all the railroads in America. He wanted competition  —   that’s the cornerstone of   capitalism. Yet, the   division of Barack Obama has not been activated against Facebook, Google, and the other monopolies of our time. Why? Because they support him and his prog policies. They’re   states that crush opposition viewpoints, censoring you on Facebook, and so on. And yet, there is an   division, specifically to stop this from happening. No corporation can be permitted to become this powerful they’ll start to control the population. Savage said he would advise a President Trump to “reactivate the   division of the Justice Department and break up these monopolies, and permit competition to emerge. ” Marlow noted that Savage has described Scorched Earth as his “last political salvo. ” Savage agreed he has described it to fans of his radio show as his last political book. He anticipated it would debut in the top five nonfiction hardcover bestsellers, noting that he was not using any traditional TV outlets, even Fox News, to promote the book. “It’s astonishing how blacklisted I am, and people still go into the bookstores and buy my books,” he said. He said he was inclined to retire from book writing after Scorched Earth because he felt he had done his duty, in a writing career that reached back to the early Seventies. “I’ve done it, I don’t want to do it again. Let someone else do it,” he said. Savage added, “If Hillary wins, I think it’s gonna take more than a book to save ourselves. ” “I don’t think books are going to matter too much under the emerging progressive fascist dictatorship. I wouldn’t be surprised if we don’t have book burnings, but we’ll have book bannings, see? Like they want to ban Breitbart, why not ban a certain book that they believe to be not in the best public interest. Wouldn’t that be a progressive value? Isn’t that the way it’s done in North Korea?” he warned. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 