The Muirfield Golf Club took advantage of a mulligan, and, in its second vote in 10 months, straightened out enough of its wayward members to surpass the   majority needed to admit women. Tuesday’s victory was perhaps more about pragmatism than principles. Just over 80 percent of the men of the Honourable Company of Edinburgh, which runs Muirfield, determined that it is better to have to share membership privileges with the occasional woman than to be excluded from hosting a British Open. Of the 621 members who voted, 498 were in favor of admitting women. Last May, 616 members cast ballots, with fewer than 400, or 64 percent, voting for the resolution. Any inclination to warmly welcome the gentlemen of Muirfield into the 21st century is tempered by the fact that 123 members  —   even confronted with a boycott of their storied course by the Royal and Ancient, the organizer of the British Open  —   stubbornly thumbed their noses at what passes for progress in the rest of the civilized world by voting against admitting women. In their defense, the pace of change must be dizzying for those stuck in the era of   trousers, ruffled cravats and tweed jackets. For more than a century,  Muirfield had been able to welcome the world to its storied course while keeping women out, except as guests and visitors. Sixteen times, most recently in 2013, Muirfield managed to keep its discriminatory membership policy and host one of golf’s most prestigious championships, too. So it must have seemed like a bad dream when many gentlemen of Muirfield woke up one morning  —   got out of their marital beds to go play golf with their chums, as the former chief executive of the RA, Peter Dawson, so memorably described it in 2013  —   and realized that the ground beneath their feet had moved. It is proof of the seismic shifts remaking the glacial game of golf that in a matter of a few years, Muirfield went from being too famed a course to leave out of the British Open rotation to being too fetid to include. Muirfield, formed in 1744, was one of the last clubs to host a major golf event to dig their heels in on membership. The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews opened its membership to women in 2014. Royal St. George’s, another British Open site, followed suit a year later. Last year, Royal Troon ended its   membership policy  —   a few weeks before hosting the British Open. Augusta National Golf Club, home of the Masters, deserves credit for offering membership to women in 2012, however belatedly, and, in doing so, daring the rest of the heel diggers to fall in line behind it. Renee Powell, one of the first women offered membership to the Royal and Ancient, had a mixed reaction to Muirfield’s mulligan vote. “I’m delighted it passed, first of all,” she said Tuesday by telephone. “I’m also a little bit bewildered why anyone would vote against it. ” Pioneers like Powell have been joined in the fight by younger generations of men who seem as confused as anyone by the old guard’s intransigence. After last year’s voting results were announced, Rory McIlroy, a   major winner from Northern Ireland, expressed disbelief. It was hard for him to wrap his head around a host of the major he loves perhaps more than any other discriminating against women. On Tuesday, the reigning Masters champion Danny Willett, an Englishman, expressed delight in the voting reversal. “I think that’s great,” he said. “I think it shows how times have changed. It shows how golf’s changed. ” Muirfield’s waiting list for membership stretches at least two years, so women will have to keep a stiff upper lip  —   there will be no line jumping for history’s sake. It is hoped the club doesn’t follow the example of the Royal and Ancient and earmark for membership a couple of nonagenarian women who don’t have time on their side. After the vote was announced, the RA affirmed Muirfield would go back into the British Open rotation. The first Open that Muirfield could host is in 2022, and by then, it is hoped, its membership will include a handful of women. Twenty years from now, no one is likely to care that the gentlemen of Muirfield were grudging in their acceptance of women. It will be like the 74 that Willett posted in the second round last year at Augusta  —   a footnote to his   victory. Two decades on, when women are mingling with men in the golf clubs where access to power is one of the privileges of membership, few will remember that it wasn’t always like that. History is long, but collective memories, blessedly, are short. The next battleground is Kasumigaseki Country Club, which was chosen as the site of the men’s and women’s golf competition at the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo. The club denies women full membership and prohibits them from playing on Sundays. In an interview with Reuters last month, the International Olympic Committee’s vice president, John Coates, said that if the club did not “achieve gender equality,” the Olympic competition would be moved to another course. One can argue that a club with discriminatory membership policies never should have been chosen as the host course in the first place. But as the RA demonstrated with Muirfield, the spotlight can be a powerful tool, starting conversations in which clubhouse politicking ends.