The resources of Mexican transnational criminal organizations, also known as cartels, will be seized and used to fund Donald Trump’s border wall if he wins the 2016 presidential election. The wall, which several previously   areas of the U. S.  border already have —  whether an actual wall or a several tiered fencing and integrated technological system —  has been a controversial issue to pundits and politicians who lack information on the subject. [Trump’s idea to force the cartels to pay will likely manifest in the form of seizing their assets. It is likely that the U. S. State Department’s diplomatic shackles placed upon the FBI will be removed, as it is common knowledge that the State Department pressures the FBI to balance their law enforcement priorities with diplomatic concerns —  a restriction that makes it difficult to properly address Mexican cartels when many of the elected leaders in Mexico are actually surrogates for those very cartels, as Breitbart Texas has reported ad nauseam.  Trump’s plan, as stated as early as March 2016, never included a wall on all 1, 954 miles of land border. Trump committed to give the actual Border Patrol agents who patrol each of the nine sectors on the southwest border a seat at the policy table and to listen to where a wall is needed and where one is unneeded —  a fact most pundits and journalists seemingly missed as they mistakenly discuss his allegedly changing positions on the matter. The news first broke on Lifezette however, the focus on cartels was downplayed in their coverage as an idea that is being “mulled over. ” Trump’s campaign is now led by Stephen Bannon, the former head of Breitbart News who stepped down temporarily to run the campaign. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles project began under Bannon’s leadership and the issue is dear to his heart. The project allows clandestine citizen journalists in several Mexican states that are under direct control from Los Zetas and the Gulf Cartel to have a platform to expose the evils of the transnational criminal groups and has a stated goal of warring with the criminals and exposing them for the purpose of ending them. In addition to providing a voice to the courageous citizen journalists in Mexico, the project singles out cartel commanders one by one and focuses media attention on them until the Mexican authorities are forced to act and go after the criminal boss, thus picking them off one at a time. Bannon   and presided over the project until he went to the Trump campaign and someone with his knowledge on the cartels leading the campaign makes it inevitable that Trump wouldn’t also have the Mexican cartels on his mind each day —  along with the grief of the loved ones of the cartels’ countless victims. Brandon Darby is managing director and    of Breitbart Texas. He   the Cartel Chronicles project. Follow him on Twitter and Facebook. Ildefonso Ortiz is an award winning journalist with Breitbart Texas. He   the Cartel Chronicles project and you can follow him on Twitter and on Facebook. This article has been updated.