On the Tuesday edition of Breitbart News Daily, broadcast live on Sirius XM Patriot channel 125 from 6AM to 9AM EST, host and Breitbart News executive chairman Stephen K. Bannon will continue the discussion on the war against the Islamic State and how this issue and others impact the 2016 election in the   to the important Wisconsin primary. [We’ll hear from a volunteer Peshmerga soldier named Ferhang who has been on the front lines fighting the Islamic State since June 2014 when ISIS attacked Mosul. He was living in Canada and was visiting family in Kurdistan when ISIS attacked, and he decided to stay and help. He and the other Peshmerga have been fighting ever since.  Retired U. S. Army Major General Paul Vallely will discuss the military situation on the ground with ISIS. Rep. Brian Babin will discuss the letter he and more than 50 other Republican House members signed requesting that enhanced refugee screening measures be included in an upcoming Homeland Security appropriations bill. Breitbart’s Austin Ruse will discuss the death of Tom Uzhunnalil, an Indian Catholic priest who was crucified by ISIS on Good Friday. Four nuns from Mother Teresa’s order of the Missionaries for Charity were also brutally murdered by the Islamic State jihadists when they kidnapped Fr. Uzhunnalil at the charity home for the elderly he and the sisters ran in Yemen. Economist George Gilder will discuss his important new book The Scandal of Money: Why Wall Street Recovers but the Economy Never Does. Bestselling military historian Patrick O’Donnell will discuss the importance of the American Revolution in our nation’s DNA. O’Donnell’s latest book is Washington’s Immortals: The Untold Story of an Elite Regiment Who Changed the Course of the Revolution. We’ll also hear live reports from Breitbart correspondents around the globe, including Dr. Tom Williams in Rome and Liam Deacon reporting on the latest developments in the investigation of the terror attack in Brussels. Breitbart News Daily is the first live, conservative radio enterprise to air seven days a week. Sirius XM Vice President for news and talk Dave Gorab called the show “the conservative news show of record. ” Follow Breitbart News on Twitter for live updates during the show. Listeners may call into the show at:   .