Tuesday on CNN’s “New Day,” presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump surrogate and attorney Michael Cohen had a   battle with host Chris Cuomo over Trump’s attacks on former President Bill Clinton and his Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential   for their past treatment of women.  Defending Trump, Cohen said,”What he is doing is he is exposing, not just Bill Clinton for what he was and what he had done, but it’ the same as it relates to Hillary. She attacked Mr. Trump as being a sexist, misogynist, and that is inaccurate Donald Trump is not any of those things. They’re trying to portray him as such so they can turn the women against Mr. Trump, when in fact, the women seem to be turning against Hillary Clinton for being the   . ” He continued, “What she is doing is defecting. She is the enabler in chief and he happens to be the sexist. So instead, she needs to win the women’s vote. That’s what she needs. She is not going to win the men’s vote. She needs to go after the women’s vote. She is not going to be able to do that if Donald Trump is not portrayed by the Clinton campaign as a sexist. So she is deflecting. ” On Trump’s past defense of Bill Clinton’s indiscretions, Cuomo asked, “Here are my two reason I think it’s bad for him, one hypocrite, two glass houses. He defended Bill Clinton for years. He said the same allegations that you guys are talking about now were a waste of time, were wrong, were hollow, that Bill Clinton was a terrific guy. That he was a great president, that the impeachment was wrong, that it was a waste of time. ” Cohen interjected, “And Hillary Clinton said Donald Trump was on of the smartest best businessman in the Untied States. All he is doing is giving the facts. He was a private citizen who was friendly with the Clintons and he was trying to protect a friend. Now, it’s a different game. It’s 2016, he is the Republican presidential nominee. ” Cuomo asked,  “So he was lying then?” Cohen said, “He was not lying, he was protecting a friend. There’s a difference. Cuomo pressed, “What is the difference?” Cohen added, “The difference is he was being a true friend. It didn’t matter to him. ” (  RCP Video) Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN