Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos will address students at the University of California, Irvine, on Thursday, June 2. The event, hosted by the UCI College Republicans, can be watched below. [Milo is expected to speak in police uniform, covering law and order, Black Lives Matter, and immigration.   The talk, titled “Social Justice is Cancer,” will run from   pm PDT on Thursday, June 2, in room SSPA 1100 on UCI’s campus. The event will consist of a short lecture, followed by a QA session. It will be free and open to the public however, priority will be given to   persons. The UCI College Republicans are calling this their “biggest event yet. ” They describe Yiannopoulos as the “enemy of political correctness lunacy,” and hope that the event will help “expose the rampant censorship and hypocrisy in the so called Social Justice movement. ” The entire event summary from the UCI College Republicans can be read below. College Republicans is bringing our biggest event yet: Milo Yiannopoulos. Ever the enemy of political correct lunacy, the   “Dangerous Faggot” is coming to UCI. Try as they might to ban him, he will be here to expose the rampant censorship and hypocrisy in the so called Social Justice movement. The College Republicans at UCI wish to promote informed political discussion, all individuals of all political parties ideaologies or preferences are welcomed and encouraged to attend. Universities should prepare young minds for the challenges of the real world, and students should be exposed to ideas that differ from   for in the real world you don’t get a Safe Space, and there are no Trigger Warnings. All those who wish to ask Milo a question in the Question and Answer section after Milo’s speech are encouraged to do so and foster civil discussion and debate, and try out their questions by posting them in the discussion section on this event page below. Tickets are free just be sure to RSVP by clicking “Going” in this event page and invite your friends to this event page as well and you’re all set! We look forward to seeing you at “Social Justice is Cancer”! Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or on Facebook. You can email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com