Protesters waving Kurdish flags shut down traffic heading into Wales across the Severn Bridge today by holding a demonstration on the bridge against the treatment of Kurdish people by Turkey. [Around 100 people took part in the demonstration, waving banners with   slogans and chanting slogans.  Others milled onto the carriageway itself, causing traffic on the westbound carriageway of the M4 came to a complete standstill and the motorway to be closed completely on the Severn Bridge. Diversions were put in place, ITV has reported. One of the demonstrators, Bilhan Tuncel from Bristol told the South Wales Argus: “We thought it would be more effective because we want urgent attention to ask the Kurdish question. “The community does not believe there is enough attention. ” Accusing Turkey of perpetrating a “massacre” in Kurdistan, killing up to 400 civilians, he added: “There is a genocide going on. There is a massacre in Kurdistan. It is not just simply violating human rights. ” Gwent police dealt with the protesters by moving them to the side of the road, allowing the bridge to be   while the protest continued. A driver stuck on the Severn Bridge told Wales Online: “There were at least 100 protesters, men and women holding babies, and they were chanting and holding banners. “Some of the banners had ‘Freedom for Turkey’ written on them. “They were standing across the road, about half way along, but as soon as police came they dispersed. ” Others reported seeing as few as 15. Police cars appear to be making their way towards protesters. Huge   as police cut traffic further down.  —   Ben Mackenzie (@BenMackenzie) January 13, 2016,  Severn Bridge into Wales now officially closed. 2 sets of traffic about a mile between each other as Police try reaching   protest,  —   Ben Mackenzie (@BenMackenzie) January 13, 2016,  Sign saying “Fascist Turkish” seen on way past, couldn’t catch any others, small number of protesters though, maybe 15 or so.  —   Ben Mackenzie (@BenMackenzie) January 13, 2016,  It is not the first time that the   dispute has spilled out onto the streets of European countries, given the massive immigration rates from the two countries. Last year, Breitbart London reported on a spate of grenade attacks in Sweden, violence in Switzerland, and in Germany.  Breitbart London reported live from an   protest in London in 2014 which was dominated by Kurdish expats waving communist flags.