On Tuesday, Manny Pacquiao, “Fighter of the Decade” for the 2000s according to the Boxing Writers Association of America and Ring Magazine, apologized for remarks in which he called homosexuality something that even animals don’t try. [Pacquiao refused to retract his opposition to gay marriage.  Pacquiao had responded to an inquiry from the TV5 network in which they asked celebrities about   marriage, which he opposes. He asserted, “It’s just common sense. Have you seen any animal having    or    relations?” Adding that even animals understand gender differences, he opined, “if you have    or    [relationships] then people are worse than animals. ” Pacquiao’s comments sparked outrage, as TV host Jose Marie Viceral, tweeted that lesbians, gays, bisexuals, and transgender people are humans, not animals. Danton Remoto, chairman of the LGBT group Ladlad, pointing out Pacquiao’s position in the Philippines House of Representatives and his current campaign for a Senate seat, echoed, “He is running for a national position and he should be a senator of everybody, not just    boxers and straight people. ” He said that Pacquiao and his advisers should adhere to current political correctness, sniping, “Otherwise, they would be left behind in the Dark Ages, when the cavemen ruled and the numbskulls roamed the earth,. ” Lesbian singer Aiza Seguerra ripped Pacquiao on Instagram: “You might’ve done our country proud but with your statement, you just showed the whole country why we shouldn’t vote for you. And yes, I think you are an ignorant, bigoted hypocrite. ” Pacquiao backed down on a Facebook video, stating: “I’m sorry for hurting people by comparing homosexuals to animals. Please forgive me for those I’ve hurt. ” But in an Instagram post, he simply stated: I rather obey the Lord’s command than obeying the desires of the flesh. Im not condemning anyone, but I’m just telling the truth of what the Bible says. The truth from the Bible is what changed me from my old ways. 1 Corinthians 6:9 “[9] Or do you not know that wrongdoers will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: Neither the sexually immoral nor idolaters nor adulterers nor men who have sex with men. ” God Bless everyone i love you all. In 2012, the Los Angeles shopping center The Grove banned Pacquiao from its grounds after an interview in The National Examiner wrongly attributed remarks to Pacquiao. The    fighter  later told The Los Angeles Times, “What I said is a reporter asked me about gay marriage   …     I am against gay marriage, but I’m not condemning gays. I have family  —   a cousin  —   who’s gay, and friends too. I’m just against gay marriage. I don’t even want to talk about the issue, but I was asked about it, so I gave my opinion. ” Pacquiao plans to retire from boxing after his rubber match with Timothy Bradley on April 9.