WASHINGTON  —   President Trump, once the master pitchman for namesake vodka, steaks and   casinos, seems disinclined to attach his surname to the health care bill some allies have derided as “Ryancare. ” He assured Americans on Thursday of the “improvements being made” to legislation that Speaker Paul D. Ryan initially suggested would scarcely change, amid grumblings that the White House is fuming over the plan’s   rollout. And Mr. Ryan, Mr. Trump’s   partner in the endeavor after a year of campaign criticisms and mistrust, is insisting that all is going according to plan. “I would say that there is no intrigue, palace intrigue, divisions between the principals,” Mr. Ryan told reporters on Thursday, allowing that perhaps some “  staffers” felt differently. “We have a president,” he added, brandishing a fluency in the language of Trump, “who likes closing deals. ” For months, the halting union of Mr. Trump and Mr. Ryan has weathered a stark divide in political ideology and style  —   a mutual acknowledgment, at least so far, that each man was critical to the other’s outsize governing ambitions. But with the health care bill staggering through the House, its fate uncertain, their alliance is facing an essential test, as White House officials and congressional leaders stare down the prospect of failing at their first major legislative heave. In less than two months, the party divisions that Mr. Trump exploited in his thundering campaign have resurfaced in the health care fight, even as Republicans control the White House and Congress. Already, some allies of Mr. Trump are moving to distance him from the potential fallout, privately suggesting that the speaker was never to be trusted in the first place. Administration officials have expressed frustration that there was not a better explanation of the   approach described by the House Republican leadership after the bill was unveiled, lamenting the resulting confusion. In recent days, Mr. Ryan has blitzed the news media, including several   outlets often hostile to the speaker, to make the case for the bill more forcefully than the president has seemed interested in doing himself. But Mr. Ryan has made clear that he alone does not bear the weight of the present challenge. “It’s not my bill,” he told CNN, noting that the White House had helped Congress draft it. “It’s our bill. ” As if for emphasis, he also noted that he talks to the president almost every day. For the president and the speaker, passage of the bill is about more than the health care debate it is a matter of demonstrating that major legislation  —   with the weight of the White House behind it  —   can sweep through a Republican Congress. On Capitol Hill, Republicans are already confronting concerns that a stumble on the first major agenda item would imperil future efforts on tax reform and a border wall. “The legislative window closes a lot sooner than people imagine,” said Peter Wehner, a former director of the White House Office of Strategic Initiatives under President George W. Bush, who has known Mr. Ryan for two decades. “It’s open the first year, and you better get things done. If you win, that builds on itself. And if you lose, that builds on itself. ” In an effort to appease conservatives, the White House is warming to a shortening of the Medicaid phaseout period in the current bill, among other changes, aiming to move the bill through the House and daring moderate Senate Republicans to stand in its way. Soon, Mr. Trump could take to the road himself to pressure potentially reluctant members in their states, according to a person briefed on the discussions. On Wednesday, Vice President Mike Pence sought to galvanize House Republicans at a   session in the basement of the Capitol, where members dined on    and sought reassurances. Mr. Pence insisted that Mr. Trump was “spoiling for a fight” to see the process through to completion, according to an attendee. But while the White House has said publicly that collaboration has been smooth, the bill’s struggles have not gone unnoticed in Mr. Trump’s orbit. On Monday, a curiously timed report appeared on the   website Breitbart, often a repository of tea leaves for members of Mr. Trump’s circle. (It was once run by Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, a vocal Ryan critic in his old job.) Hours after the release of a damaging analysis on the health bill from the Congressional Budget Office, the site published leaked audio of Mr. Ryan telling House members last October that he could no longer defend Mr. Trump’s campaign. The content of the tape was not news Mr. Ryan’s view at the time was clear, just after the release of the “Access Hollywood” video in which Mr. Trump boasted of sexually assaulting women. But to admirers of Mr. Ryan, the message of the leak was unsubtle. “An audience of one,” Charlie Sykes, the longtime Wisconsin radio host and friend of Mr. Ryan’s, wrote on Twitter. It is not yet clear if the criticisms of Mr. Ryan are resonating with Mr. Trump. The president has been in regular contact with some Republican opponents of the bill in Congress, such as Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky and Representative Mark Meadows of North Carolina, the chairman of the House Freedom Caucus. And while Mr. Trump has suggested that he will be able to blame Democrats for installing the Affordable Care Act in the first place, some of his advisers are dubious. Mr. Trump has also told people that if this effort fails, he will try again in two years. Christopher Ruddy, a friend of Mr. Trump’s and the chief executive of Newsmax Media, said the current plan betrays how the president has traditionally viewed government programs. “Trump should trust his own instincts,” said Mr. Ruddy, who wrote a column suggesting that Mr. Trump seek a bipartisan consensus bill. The administration figure perhaps the most invested in finding a legislative fix is Reince Priebus, Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, who is close with Mr. Ryan. While in Detroit on Wednesday, Mr. Trump pointed to Mr. Priebus and said he “may one day run a car company or maybe not,” before adding that he was doing a “great job. ” At a later event in Tennessee, after failing to mention the bill earlier in the day, Mr. Trump promised to “repeal and replace horrible and disastrous Obamacare,” repeatedly plugging the current legislation. Mr. Ryan  —   who during the campaign called Mr. Trump’s attacks on a judge of Mexican heritage “the textbook definition of a racist comment”  —   has scarcely said a cross word about him since the election. (He did allow on Thursday that he had “seen no evidence” to support Mr. Trump’s claim that President Barack Obama had wiretapped him.) The president’s assessment of Mr. Ryan has vacillated at least as much. In 2012, Mr. Trump thought Mr. Ryan was a dangerous choice as Mitt Romney’s running mate, and he was deeply critical of the congressman’s budget proposals to trim entitlement programs. After Mr. Ryan distanced himself in October, Mr. Trump savaged him as a “weak and ineffective leader. ” But by December, the two had reconciled. At a rally together in Wisconsin, Mr. Trump compared Mr. Ryan to “a fine wine” whose “genius” he had grown to appreciate. Then came the hedge: “Now, if he ever goes against me, I’m not going to say that. ”