Speaking to reporters on a conference call Monday morning, Hillary Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook attempted to downplay the “quid pro quo” scandal surrounding the use of Clinton’s use of private email servers, while unleashing attacks against Donald Trump. [“It’s very well known that there were disputes between or rather between agents, between the State Department and other agencies about classification,” Mook responded when asked about the newly released 302s FBI documents. “It’s not uncommon for officials within departments to fight over classification. This is something that took place entirely with the government and with the State Department, so I leave it to that. ”  Prior to the conference call, FBI released documents in relations to the Clinton email server scandal that showed a former undersecretary of state Patrick Kennedy proposing a “quid pro quo” with the State Department by requesting the FBI change the classification of certain emails that were deemed classified. According to the 302s FBI documents, the FBI official pressured the individual to downgrade the classification of the email to unclassified in exchange of the State Department “reciprocat[ing] by allowing the FBI to place more agents in countries where they are presently forbidden. ” Regarding Trump on the claims the election will be “rigged,” Mook dismissed the notion, calling the GOP a “loser” in blaming the system over his “disastrous campaign. ” “Donald Trump’s campaign is spiraling,” Mook said. “He is desperately trying to shift attention from his own disastrous campaign. He knows he is losing and is trying to blame that on the system. This is what losers do and we are not even going to give it any credit to amplifying it. ” Mook went on the attack against Trump, telling reporters the GOP is “becoming more unhinged by the day,” and his behavior is the reason Clinton campaign is committing additional resources into Republican turf, such as splitting a million dollars between Indiana and Missouri and investing in competitive Senate and House races in New Hampshire, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Florida, Pennsylvania, and Iowa  —   a coordinated effort costing $100 million. “Democrats have a historic opportunity to elect not just the first woman president, but leaders across the country who will work with her,” Mook said, brushing off the suggestion that votes could be split down the ballot. “Donald Trump is becoming more unhinged by the day, and that is increasing the prospects for Democrats farther down the ballot. ”