Outgoing UKIP leader Nigel Farage told Breitbart News Daily that Hillary Clinton “represents the status quo” and will bring “the stability of failure” to the United States if she wins the presidential election this November. [Speaking to Breitbart London’s    Raheem Kassam, the outgoing UKIP leader and Member of the European Parliament (MEP) Nigel Farage has stated that Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, along with the rest of the global political establishment “have led us into a series of wars, they’ve massively increased our levels of debt, and they represent failure”.  He continued: “When Hillary talks about stability, what she means is the stability of failure. The stability of policies that haven’t worked, and what the West needs is a change. ” “Hillary and her mates are part of the global politics of the last twenty years that has been absolutely    with the big banks and big multinational businesses that have led to the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer. Ordinary people in America, Britain, and elsewhere are not being given an even break. ” Remarking on the fact that Clinton had neither met with American voters nor held a press conference for over 270 days, Mr. Farage said: “What she is doing is very simple. She is saying: ‘I represent the status quo’ ‘I represent the world the way it is’ ‘I represent safety’ and effectively nothing much will change under me. ” Mr. Farage’s comments come after Front National leader and presidential candidate for the 2017 French elections Marine Le Pen said that a Clinton presidency would mean “devastation” in an interview with CNN: “I believe Hillary Clinton means war, Hillary Clinton means devastation, destabilizing the world, economic choices that would be devastating for my people, geostrategic choices that would lead to global conflicts,” Ms. Le Pen said. The populist leader then drew parallels between her campaign and that of Mr. Trump saying “we’re not insiders, we are not taking part in the ‘system’ we depend on no one and do not take our orders from any financial institutions”.