HOUSTON, Texas  —   Lawyers for David Daleiden, the undercover journalist who is connected with the Center for Medical Progress undercover videos of Planned Parenthood executives, accused Harris County prosecutors of being in collusion with Planned Parenthood. Breitbart Texas spoke with lawyer Jared Woodfill who said, “We have clear evidence that the D. A. is colluding with Planned Parenthood. ”[The former Harris County Republican Party Chairman and lawyer explained, “The lawyer for Planned Parenthood worked with the D. A. to indict, and he knew that the grand jury never voted on whether to indict Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast in Houston, something that is supposed to be confidential. ”  Woodfill and Daleiden’s other lawyer, Terry Yates, said the Planned Parenthood lawyer has spoken about these issues to the press.  Woodfill called it “A   tour. ” Woodfill added, “The D. A.’s office has chosen to attack the   movement and we have filed two motions to quash the indictments in order to vindicate   warrior David Daleiden. ” The lawyers also said they are filling a motion to dismiss the charges that have been filed against the   activist by Harris County District Attorney Devon Anderson. Woodfill said that the Planned Parenthood lawyer, Josh Schaffer, worked in an effort to get their client David Daleiden indicted. Woodfill told Breitbart Texas, “You would expect this in New York and California but not in Houston, Texas. The   lawyer and defense   Yates are astounded that a   “whistleblower” could be indicted. The press conference occurred at the Harris County court complex in Houston on Thursday. As reported by Breitbart Texas, the indictments of David Daleiden and Sandra (Susan) Merritt by a Harris County grand jury surprised   advocates who were expecting that an investigation of Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast would result in criminal action against Planned Parenthood executives for selling baby body parts. Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast is a   facility located in Houston, Texas, and was one of the facilities stung by the undercover videos produced by Daleiden and Merritt, as reported by Breitbart News. Daleiden is the president and founder of the Center for Medical Progress (CMP). Both Daleiden and Merritt are   for the series of undercover videos with Planned Parenthood executives and employees. A research director at Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast in Houston was the subject of one of these videos. Breitbart News’ Austin Ruse reported on August 4th that “A video just released by the Center for Medical Progress taken undercover in Texas shows a Planned Parenthood research director discussing the sale of whole intact aborted babies to a company that resells them to medical researchers. Lt. Governor Dan Patrick immediately publicly condemned the video, the fifth in the CMP video series, and asked Harris County D. A. Devon Anderson to conduct an investigation, as reported by Breitbart Texas. As a result of the investigation, there have been no indictments involving Planned Parenthood however, Daleiden and Merritt were indicted for felony tampering with a government record. Daleiden was also indicted for the misdemeanor charge of offering to buy fetal tissue. Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2