Hillary Clinton’s top aide Huma Abedin arranged for the former Secretary of State to bypass a   metal detector when she entered the Capitol to testify before the House Select Committee on Benghazi, according to the latest Wikileaks release of John Podesta’s purported emails. [In late October of 2015, Clinton’s inner circle discussed the logistics of her entrance to the Capitol. This email thread is dated days before a hearing where she testified for 11 hours about her use of an unsecured, homebrew email server to conduct all her business as Secretary of State and her handling of the 2012 Benghazi terrorist attack which took the lives of four Americans.  Katherine Turner, law partner to Clinton’s personal lawyer David Kendall, writes to Abedin, Podesta, Kendall, Cheryl Mills, Jake Sullivan, and Heather Samuleson that Abedin successfully arranged for Clinton to skip the security line: I spoke with Mac Toler re logistics: 1. He and Huma have made arrangements to do the advance   tomorrow morning and work through   logistics. He did mention that the entrance plan would be that her car (and any cars with her) would pull up to the front entrance, Secretary Clinton herself would *not* have to go through metal   but all those arriving within her “from Mr. Kendall on down” would have to do so he would have a dedicated security line cleared for us to expedite this. I didn’t comment on this other than to say that the details of entry are an aspect that he and Huma should work through tomorrow morning. He wanted to know arrival time for this again, I deferred to you on that, Huma. [emphasis added] Abedin worried on a previous email that Secret Service would “fight with us” about that specific request: I am curious if anyone has seen the breakout room? i think 15 is a good number to give them but practically dont think we should expand this core list. esp if this is the space HRC comes to escape during her breaks. also USSS [Secret Service] will need to coordinate with Capitol hill security. i want to know in advance if they are going to fight with us about HRC going through a mag [  metal detector].