On Breitbart News Daily, the morning of Super Tuesday, longtime players on the presidential political scene warned the GOP establishment may pull out all the stops to deny GOP frontrunner Donald Trump the Republican presidential nomination, should he sweep the upcoming primaries and win 1, 237 or more delegates. [As veteran campaign adviser Roger Stone told host and Breitbart News executive chairman Stephen K. Bannon:  I have reported, and I stand by this, that a number of the billionaires who are funding Marco Rubio have told him that he has until the Florida primary on March 15th to show some leg. If he cannot win his home state primary, it will be very hard to continue to justify his campaign. At that point, I think it is abundantly clear that Mitt Romney is waiting in the wings. Notice how Romney is suddenly tweeting all the   tweets? So, he’s been quiet for months and now he’s suddenly carping about Trump’s tax returns. Now he’s carping about this phony story about David Duke, who Trump has no truck with whatsoever. I think Mitt gets into those late primaries  …     in an effort to soak up votes. The purpose here is not to defeat Trump overall. It’s just to stall him on the first ballot. In a separate article, Stone warned “the big steal” was coming: The   short term game is clear stall Trump just short of the magic number of delegates needed to be nominated on the first ballot with the knowledge that many delegates bound on the first ballot by Trump primary and caucus victories would be unbound on a second ballot. Much in the way the RNC stacked the galleries with   partisans in the last two debates,   quislings are be planted in various delegations that will be free to betray Trump on subsequent ballots. Likewise,   Rep. Steve King now faces an onslaught for endorsing the staunchly conservative senator. he said: They may decide they can do business with Hillary, and they might take their big bucks and go home. I say that because I’m watching them throw a tantrum right now in Iowa, and they have put, I will say, millions of dollars on the table to recruit a primary opponent against me, because they are sore losers in the Iowa caucus. When Cruz won the Iowa caucus, they decided, we’re going to teach Steve King a lesson. Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich was incredulous that GOP party heads would fight their   base with such determination. he said: The country outside of Washington, at least on the center and the right, has been increasingly alienated. It’s alienated by political correctness, it’s alienated by big bureaucracies that don’t work, it’s alienated by trade policies that don’t seem to help us and now, of course, now national security policy that is just a disaster. People look at that and say: ‘We don’t need to better manage the disaster. We need to kick over the table and start with some new fresh ideas.’ Trump and Cruz are the two guys offering to kick over the table. Carson offers it a little bit in terms of personal and moral authority that is very powerful. “I think the establishment is  …     denying reality,” he added. “If you have, between Cruz, Carson, and Trump, you’re in the 65, 70 percent range. At that point it’s time for the establishment to question their failure, not repudiate the American voter. How do you repudiate 70 percent of your own party?” Not that it would stop them. Gingrich warned that should Trump sweep Super Tuesday, the establishment will say to itself: “[W]e have to     scream even louder, try to get down in the mud, hope we can drag Trump down with us. Because, oh my God, what if he’s actually the nominee? Just because he has the most votes and the most delegates, why should we allow the American system to work when we want to throw a temper tantrum?” But in a fiery interview during the program, Ivanka Trump declared her father has no intention of backing down in the face of the establishment and its hostility: “My father is in this for the long run, so he’s not backing down. If nothing else, he’s been very emboldened by the passion, the outpouring of support of the people he’s meeting, of every single city he passes through. ” Trump has repeatedly warned against the GOP’s attempts to treat him “unfairly” after he signed a pledge not to run third party if denied the nomination. “I’m going to have to see what happens,” he told ABC News in November. In the words of Bannon: They hate Cruz, and fear Trump. What steps they will take in order to stop populist insurgents remains to be seen. Should they crush the populist uprising, they may throw the presidential race  —   and the nation  —   into chaos. As veteran pollster Pat Caddell pointed out, we’re nearing a tipping point where multiple candidates could enter the presidential race and we could face an   scenario: “That tipping point is the American people being willing to overthrow their leadership through the democratic process. And then if that doesn’t work and they manage to be screwed out of that, then that will not go over well. ” “All of what I’m saying summed up is this country is in revolution,” Caddell told Bannon. “The establishment will not deal with the fact or give credibility [to the concerns]. When they attack Trump the way they do with the personal viciousness and stuff  …     what they’re saying to the American people is: ‘This is you. Get back in your box.’ And they have left the building, folks. ”