A transgender actress and activist preparing to embark on a traveling performance tour of North Carolina plans to take photos of herself urinating “in all the wrong bathrooms” to protest the state’s recent passage of what critics have called an   bathroom law. [Shakina Nayfack is set to perform in Durham, Charlotte and Raleigh next month as part of the Manifest Pussy: Post Op tour. But the state’s   HB 2  —   which mandates that transgender individuals use the public restroom that corresponds with their biological sex  —   gave Nayfack an idea for a novel way to protest the law.  “They are trying to create a situation where trans people are supposed to be invisible,” the New York   artist told the Guardian this week. “This is an absurd, panicked reaction from the ignorant, it’s a massive step backwards, so I felt it was my duty to go down there and take selfies in as many men’s bathrooms as possible. ” According to the Huffington Post, the actress plans to take photographs in men’s rooms across the state, including of a “  visit” to the state Capitol in Raleigh. Nayfack is   the tour, with money raised from performances going to organizations in North Carolina working to get the law repealed. Nayfack reportedly got the idea to   the tour based on a previous successful crowdfunding campaign that financed her gender reassignment surgery in Thailand last year. “[A]s a grassroots trans activist and, God willing, a rising star in the entertainment industry  —   I can slip in there and make a stand and motivate the people who are dealing with the consequences of this. ” Nayfack is reportedly considering hiring security guards to stand outside the men’s rooms, so as to avoid any physical altercations. “I’m not looking to confront anyone,” the actress told the Guardian. “If people want to engage me in civil discussion in a bathroom that will be fine. But if people want to come at me, I’ll tell them, well, they could s —  k my d —  k, but I cut it off. ” Nayfack’s Manifest Pussy tour is scheduled to begin June 9 in Brooklyn, New York. Earlier this year, the actress joined the cast of the hit Amy   Hulu series Difficult People. A number of   entertainers, including Bruce Springsteen, Ringo Starr and the rock band Pearl Jam, have cancelled concerts in North Carolina to protest the state’s bathroom law.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  