U. S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) chose not to honor a request for an immigration detainer after Omaha police arrested illegal alien Eswin Mejia after he struck and killed    Sarah Root while driving drunk and   the night of January 31. Mejia vanished shortly after posting bond. [According to Omaha’s   Omaha Police accident investigator Dawn Turnbull repeatedly requested ICE detain Mejia after his arrest, to no avail. Despite facing up to 20 years in prison, the illegal alien was not determined a flight risk and ICE, following the Obama administration’s “priority enforcement program” (PEP) refused to detain him.  ICE spokesman Shawn Neudauer said in a statement to Breitbart News: At the time of his January 2016 arrest in Omaha on local criminal charges, Eswin Mejia, 19, of Honduras, did not meet ICE’s enforcement priorities, as stated by the Nov. 20, 2014 civil enforcement memo issued by Secretary Johnson, because he had no prior significant misdemeanor or felony conviction record. As such, ICE did not lodge a detainer. Mejia is scheduled to go before an immigration judge on March 23, 2017, and it will be up to the immigration courts under the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) to determine whether he has a legal basis to remain in the U. S. How immigration courts can expect to determine whether or not Sarah Root’s illegal alien killer can remain in the U. S. when Mejia is nowhere to be found is unclear. The   broke down a timeline of neglect on both the local and federal levels: The bond hearing took less than two minutes, according to the report. Douglas County Attorney Don Kleine told the  : The judge just went, ‘Bam, here’s the bond.’ He’s running the show in terms of how the hearing’s conducted. We weren’t given an opportunity to speak. In some ways, I wish our person would have just stopped the proceeding and said, ‘We think that’s an insufficient bond,’ but that didn’t happen. No one’s saying that people need to be profiled. But when we have someone who has been arrested for a serious crime  —   and they’re not here legally  —   they have every reason in the world to flee  …     There has to be a   communication between the feds and the state  …     For him to be able to evade prosecution is tremendously frustrating to us. And I know that’s true for [Sarah Root’s] family and for police as well. The Obama administration’s PEP program discourages ICE agents from enforcing immigration law every time an alien violates it: “PEP  …     further restricts the criteria for deportation,” wrote the Center for Immigration Studies director of policy Jessica Vaughan in 2015. “Now, only certain convicted felons, offenders with three separate misdemeanor convictions, and some new illegal arrivals will be considered appropriate for deportation. And ICE officers are told to make exceptions even to these categories if certain factors exist, such as family or community ties, illness, pregnancy, or other exceptions  …     National sanctuary policies like PEP are a tragedy waiting to happen. ” The day before the crash, Root graduated from Bellvue University with a 4. 0 GPA and a B. S. in crime investigation. A GoFundMe campaign has been set up to help her family as they mourn her loss. Email Katie at kmchugh@breitbart. com. 