  Red Sox ace Curt Schilling will be the special guest at a “Breitbart News Patriot Forum” listener event in New York City on Wednesday, April 27. [Schilling, one of the greatest pitchers in the history of baseball, has 216 career wins and is a member of the elusive   club. He also has three different World Series wins, two of which were with the Boston Red Sox. In 2004, he helped lead the Beantown Bombers back from a three game deficit against the New York Yankees in the American League Championship Series (ALCS) by literally pitching on a busted ankle that was bleeding through into his sock. The bloody sock game, as it’s become known, has become sports legend in Boston as it helped the Red Sox come out of the hole against the Yankees —  the first time in Major League Baseball history that a team came back in a   series from down three to zero and won —  then go on to beat the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series. It was the first Boston Red Sox World Series victory in 86 years, and broke what had been known as “The Curse of the Great Bambino. ” That name comes from the fact that before 2004, the Red Sox hadn’t won a World Series since they traded Babe Ruth to the Yankees in the early 20th century.  Schilling also happens to be politically conservative, and in his later   career, served as a Monday Night Baseball analyst for ESPN. He would frequently speak out in favor of common sense against extremist Islamists, the Institutional Left, the Democratic Party including former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and, most recently, against the transgender bathroom madness sweeping the nation. Schilling’s commentary in line with the vast majority of America —  that men should use the men’s room, and women should use the women’s room —  ended up leading to ESPN firing him. In an interview last week with Stephen K. Bannon  —   Breitbart News Executive Chairman and host of Breitbart News Daily on Sirius XM  —   Schilling refused to back down under the significant pressure of the social justice warriors demanding he apologize. “We are honored that Curt Schilling —  patriot, competitor, hero —  has agreed to do his first   interview and speak directly with our Sirius XM Breitbart News audience” Bannon said. “We know it will be ‘ ’ radio. ” “Curt Schilling’s recent appearance on Breitbart News Daily opened up a robust conversation and debate with Sirius XM Patriot listeners and sparked headlines nationwide,” said Dave Gorab, Vice President and General Manager, Talk Programming for Sirius XM. “We look forward to Breitbart News and Curt Schilling continuing this discussion. ” This week’s Breitbart News Patriot Forum will take place at the SiriusXM Broadcast Center in Midtown Manhattan on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a. m. and will be open to Breitbart News Network readers and listeners of Sirius XM’s Breitbart News Daily for a live studio audience. Tickets are going to be available on a     basis. If you will be in the New York Midtown Manhattan area on Wednesday and would like to attend the taping, please email requests to SiriusXMPatriot@Gmail. com. Attendees (1 pair max per request) will be selected on a first come, first serve basis. Space is limited. The event will be   by Breitbart’s Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon, and by Breitbart News Editor in Chief Alex Marlow. The full Breitbart News team will provide in depth coverage of it, and the full Breitbart News Patriot Forum will premiere at 8 a. m. ET the next day on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM Patriot (Sirius XM Channel 125) on Thursday, April 28.