It was a tough day for the A. C. C. with Louisville and Duke both getting knocked out in the round of 32, and No. 1 North Carolina narrowly escaping an upset against Arkansas. Here’s a look at what happened Sunday: Wisconsin, Florida, Baylor and South Carolina. That’s what is left of your East region. North Carolina. That’s what is left from the Atlantic Coast Conference in the N. C. A. A. tournament, after the No. 7 seed Gamecocks knocked off No. 2 Duke in a stunning upset,   on Sunday night. The winners of the A. C. C. tournament championship in Brooklyn, Duke roared into March like a team finally hitting its stride. Paced by star freshman Jayson Tatum, the conference’s leading scorer Luke Kennard, and an enigmatic talent off the bench, Grayson Allen, the Blue Devils were looking like favorites to tear through the bracket, potentially setting up a showdown with top seed Villanova in the Round of 8 at Madison Square Garden. Well, Wisconsin took care of the Wildcats on Saturday. And a day later, South Carolina, playing in front of a raucous crowd just 100 miles from its campus, obliterated Duke in the second half. The Gamecocks had not won an N. C. A. A. tournament game before Friday since 1973. But they played the role of aggressors in the second half against Duke and its   champion coach, Mike Krzyzewski. After making just seven field goals in the entire first half, South Carolina shot 71 percent from the floor in the second, looking quicker, stronger and hungrier than the Blue Devils. Foul trouble kept Kennard from becoming a factor, and South Carolina stretched its zone to really bother Duke’s shooters. Sindarius Thornwell, who scored 29 points in the Gamecocks’ win over Marquette on Friday, was terrific again, finishing with a   24 points. “When you shoot 7 for 35 in the first half and you’re down just 7 points, I tell you, it just gives you confidence,” Thornwell said. “It was our defense. It kept us in it. We thought we could win the game coming out the second half because of shooting so poorly the first half. ” Point guard Duane Notice was impossible to keep out of the paint, scoring 17 points on 6 of 8 field goals. North Carolina nearly lost on that same court in Greenville in the game before this one, but the Tar Heels rallied to hold off Arkansas. After No. 2 Louisville’s loss earlier in the day, though, the A. C. C. which set a record with nine teams in the tournament, is down to just one: the Tar Heels. Meanwhile, South Carolina moves on to play in New York, where it will face No. 3 Baylor in a matchup that few could have ever seen coming. Oregon is moving on to the round of 16 after coming from behind to beat upstart No. 11 seed Rhode Island,  . Down by eight at halftime, and by 11 with 13 minutes remaining, the Ducks leaned on sophomore Tyler Dorsey (27 points) and junior Dillon Brooks (19 points) to climb back in it. Rhode Island got a huge performance from Stanford Robinson, who scored 21 points off the bench on   field goals, including a   with 2:11 left to give Rhode Island a   lead. A   by Tyler Dorsey tied it 30 seconds later. He would put Oregon up again with 30 seconds left after burying another three. Down   with no timeouts, Rhode Island had one last chance to tie the game. But a long   by E. C. Matthews, defended by Jordan Bell, sailed long. Well, that was interesting. North Carolina narrowly  —   narrowly  —   avoided being the second No. 1 seed to get knocked off in the opening weekend, beating Arkansas,  . The Tar Heels did not make it easy on themselves. After leading at one point   late in the first half, North Carolina let No. 8 Arkansas creep back and then, finally, take the lead with 12 minutes remaining in the game. The Tar Heels were sloppy with the ball (17 turnovers) and putrid shooting the ball (38 percent from the field). The Razorbacks led by three with just over two minutes remaining. But it seemed as though Arkansas simply ran out of gas. A   run and some energized defensive stands against an exhausted Arkansas team gave the Tar Heels a   lead with 35. 7 seconds left. Arkansas had a chance to trim it but Moses Kingsley missed two free throws. After a missed free throw by Isaiah Hicks, Arkansas guard Anton Beard pulled up for a potential     with 14 seconds left. It clanged off the back rim. Arkansas went scoreless in the final 3 minutes 31 seconds of the game. North Carolina won with its defense, because its offense looked very out of sorts. When Michigan State cut Kansas’s lead to   with 12 minutes remaining, fans buckled up for an exciting finish. Unfortunately, it never came to be. The No. 1 Jayhawks outscored the Spartans,   from that point on to win easily,  . There just was no stopping Kansas out in the open floor. The game became a highlight reel of   and dunks. Four players scored in double figures, led by Josh Jackson (23 points) Frank Mason III (20 points) and Deonte Graham (18 points). Foul trouble for Michigan State’s Nick Ward, and a banged up Miles Bridges meant the Spartans were not the same as they had been on Friday. Coach Tom Izzo squeezed everything he could out of his team, but they just ran out of steam. The No. 2 seed in the South region is still alive. Kentucky withstood a late rally by No. 10 seed Wichita State in what was a highly physical, strong defensive matchup, winning,  . The Shockers did not let the Wildcats play their style:   and   . But this young and dangerous Kentucky team proved it could win anyway. The Shockers trailed by five,   with 2:30 left when Landry Shamet was fouled attempting a  . He hit all three free throws to cut the deficit to 2. Shamet hit another   with 55 seconds left to make it a   game  —    19 of his 20 points came in the second half. After a Kentucky miss, Wichita had a chance to take the lead. But Malik Monk blocked a deep shot attempt by Markis MaDuffie with 10 seconds remaining. It was one of two blocks on deep shots in the closing seconds that sealed the win and showed how good Kentucky’s perimeter defenders can be at closing out. After Monk connected on two free throws, making it a   game, the Shockers still had a chance. But Bam Adebayo blocked Shamet’s   attempt as time expired. Now it’s getting serious. No. 7 Michigan’s improbable run continued Sunday as it stormed back from a     deficit to upset No. 2 Louisville,   in Indianapolis. The Wolverines have not lost since that plane incident before the Big Ten tournament. Now they are heading to the round of 16. Sophomore forward Mo Wagner had a huge second half, finishing with a   26 points on 11 of 14 field goals to lead Michigan. A Louisville steal and a layup out of the   press made it a   game with just under a minute. But Derrick Walton Jr. drove and scooped it high off the glass with 29 seconds left to put the Wolverines back ahead by 4. Layups by Donovan Mitchell (19 points) kept bringing the margin down to 2. But Michigan’s D. J. Wilson was clutch at the   line, going 4 for 4 in the closing seconds to keep Louisville at bay. Louisville’s defense flustered Michigan in the first half, but the Cardinals’ youth and inexperience showed down the stretch with some bad fouls and stagnant offense. Coach Rick Pitino had cracked before the game that many of his players are so young they did not know who Grant Hill is. On the other side, Michigan, led by seniors Walton and Zak Irvin, still have yet to crack under pressure. Before any   action tipped off, a shockwave was sent around the college basketball world early Sunday: Mike Hopkins, an assistant under Coach Jim Boeheim for 22 years, and the designated    once Boeheim retires, was named the new coach at Washington, according to the Huskies’ twitter account. The move was initially reported by ESPN. Coach Hop, a respected tactician and recruiter, apparently got tired of waiting. Though he has had offers to leave Syracuse in the past, Hopkins had always remained at the Hall of Famer Boeheim’s side. Boeheim has said repeatedly he intended to retire after the   season. Now, that might have to be seriously  . Or perhaps Hopkins knew it already was. Hopkins, a Southern California native, played for Syracuse and began coaching there in 1995. At Washington, he will inherit a program that had the No. 3 recruiting class in the nation, according to ESPN, although a lot of that depends on what happens with the top prospect Michael Porter, Jr. who has indicated he might reopen his recruitment. It was certainly not a good weekend for Syracuse, which lost in the second round of the N. I. T. on Saturday to Ole Miss.  f