Say goodbye to the thimble, the boot and the wheelbarrow, Monopoly fans. There are new tokens in town. Hasbro, the maker of the    board game, on Friday announced the results  of a poll that asked fans in more than 100 countries to choose which tokens will circle the board in the next Monopoly game coming out in the fall. The Scottie dog, top hat, roadster car, cat, and battleship tokens will return. But the boot got the boot, and so did the wheelbarrow and the thimble. The three tokens will be replaced with a Tyrannosaurus rex, a rubber ducky and a penguin, the company said. The announcement came just before World Monopoly Day on Sunday. In a statement, Jonathan Berkowitz, a senior vice president at Hasbro Gaming, said that the “global Monopoly community has spoken. ” “The next generation of tokens clearly represents the interests of our fans around the world, and we’re proud to have our iconic game impacted by the people that feel most passionate about playing it,” he said. Hasbro had asked fans in January to choose the next generation of tokens from a list of 64 options, which included the current lineup. More than 4. 3 million votes were counted. The most popular token in the voting was the Scottie dog, the stout little pup that has clattered its way past Go countless times on Monopoly boards worldwide since it was introduced in the 1950s. The   was the second most popular option among the voters, followed by the top hat and the racing car, which have both been in circulation since the 1930s, when the game first made its appearance on American living room tables. The rubber ducky and penguin were the final inductees, joining the cat and the battleship. Some fans of the game seemed to feel strongly about which of the tokens should stay and which should go. The competition was fueled by online campaigning from outside forces, Hasbro said. Zipcar, the   company, advocated for the survival of the car token by asking fans to #SaveTheCar. The New England Aquarium got in the spirit by tweeting photographs of their penguins to #VotePenguin, and hosting a Facebook live event to Monopoly’s nearly 11 million Facebook fans. The company has opened up its revamping of the token lineup in previous polls. In 2013, fans voted to drop the iron.