Sen. Ted Cruz hit the campaign trail in both Pennsylvania and Indiana on Saturday bringing his campaign message to Pittsburgh, Plainfield and Indianapolis with a new joke based on Trump’s criticism of North Carolina’s new transgender bathroom law. [At Cruz’s Saturday evening rally at the Boone County Fairground in Indianapolis he joked: “Even if Donald Trump dresses up as Hillary Clinton, he shouldn’t be usin’ the girls restroom. ”  Cruz started on with his speech, “The third critical issue on this election  …    ” then stopped to revisit the joke. By the way, I apologize for that image, it’s going to haunt you at night as you sleep. Donald in a bright blue pants suit. But let me just say, to Jimmy Fallon and the Tonight Show, please give us that image. The crowd erupted with laughter. “I’m gonna stop goin’ down this road,” Cruz remarked.  He carried on with the remainder of his stump speech to the Indianapolis crowd. On Thursday Trump told NBC’s Today Show viewers, “North Carolina did something  —   it was very strong  —   and they’re paying a big price,” then argued, “Leave it the way it is. ” Trump added, “There has been so little trouble. And the problem with what happened in North Carolina is the strife and the economic  —   I mean, the economic punishment that they’re taking. ” Cruz accused Trump of joining the “PC police” in an exclusive interview with Breitbart News on Friday. “This is political correctness on steroids. It is basic common sense that a grown adult man, a stranger, should not be alone in a restroom with little girls. As a father of two young daughters, I can say unequivocally that’s a terrible idea. That is not a matter of right versus left or Democrat versus Republican. It’s a matter of common sense. ” Cruz also said Saturday: . @tedcruz: ”The media says the most pressing issue in the world is whether a man dressed as a woman can enter a women’s restroom.”    —   Jessica Hopper (@jesshop23) April 23, 2016,  . @tedcruz: ”When I think of the great pressing challenges of the day that does not rise high to the list.” ( )  —   Jessica Hopper (@jesshop23) April 23, 2016,  Indiana’s primary contest will be held in just over a week on May 3. Both Trump and Cruz have appeared in skits on former SNL cast member Jimmy Fallon’s late night show. Fallon himself has impersonated Trump.  Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana