Reality TV star Kim Kardashian has revealed that following a conversation with her stepfather Bruce Jenner, she is now considering voting for Donald Trump for president. [Kardashian  —   who once appeared on an episode of The Apprentice  —   had been an active Hillary Clinton supporter and has even attended fundraisers for the Democratic nominee.   I got my selfie! !! I really loved hearing her speak  hearing her goals for our country! #HillaryForPresident, A photo posted by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Aug 6, 2015 at 8:40pm PDT,  Kardashian said she always thought she would cast her vote for Hillary Clinton. “At first I thought, ‘Oh my God, I’m so Hillary [Clinton]’ but I had a long political call with Caitlyn last night about why she’s voting Trump. I’m on the fence,” Kardashian told Wonderland for their Autumn 2016 Fashion issue. Kardashian had apparently planned to vote for Clinton as recently as June. In an interview with GQ magazine, Kardashian revealed that she votes Democrat but considers herself more of a liberal Republican. However, Jenner appears to have at least prompted Kardashian to reconsider her vote. Jenner, an outspoken Republican, has been a thorn in Hollywood’s side when it comes to politics. In August 2015, Kardashian and her husband Kanye West attended a fundraiser for Hillary Clinton in Los Angles, where the three took a famous selfie. “She was very nice and of course when she says to me, ‘Can we take a selfie?’ I said, ‘Hello, of course,’” Clinton said of the experience in an interview on Ellen. “I mean that’s like an obvious answer. She takes out her phone and she presses the button  —   I’ve never seen this anywhere else   …     She pulls it out, it has lights all the way around it, like, little tiny, tiny lightbulbs. ” In an interview with Yahoo News in November, Trump said that Kardashian had always been “nice” to him when they met. With Hillary’s popularity wavering with Millennials, only time will tell if Millennial icon Kim Kardashian’s new consideration for Trump will further deepen Hillary’s slide with this very important voting group.