Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is scheduled to fundraise in the San Diego area on Wednesday afternoon. The same evening, Vice President Joe Biden will promote President Barack Obama in Barrio Logan, give an ESPY award in Los Angeles and head for Hawaii. [As rumors swirl about Trump’s own vice presidential pick, Trump is set to appear with big donors at Rancho Santa Fe. Local ABC News affiliate 10 News reported that the event will take place in the gated area of the Del Mar Country Club, and a portion of funds raised will go to the Republican National committee.  At $300, 000 per couple to be an “event chair” those listed on an online invitation as California Trump Victory California   include diet mogul Jenny Craig Madeleine Pickens and real estate developer “Papa” Doug Manchester and his wife. Vice President Joe Biden is also set to visit San Diego on Wednesday to tout Obama’s trade policies. 10 News reported on a description of the event from the Vice President’s office: “Biden will tell officials and reporters that the administration has brought more trade enforcement cases at the World Trade Organization since 2009 than any other WTO member, and has won all that have been decided. ” Trade has become one of the central issues of the presidential election. Trump released his trade plan on China last November, which called for “smart negotiators who will serve the interests of American workers. ” He has railed against trade deals like Obama’s   Partnership (TPP) and the Bill and Hillary   North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). During a June jobs speech, Trump laid out the contrast between his trade policy and that of Clinton, touching on her history on the subject. Clinton has flip flopped on TPP, once calling it the “gold standard” of trade deals as she touted it during her time as Secretary of State, but she has since moved away from it as the deal has lost favor among Americans. Biden is scheduled to head to Los Angeles from San Diego to appear at the ESPY Awards and present the Jimmy V Award to Craig Sager. He will leave Los Angeles for Honolulu, Hawaii for an overnight stay. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 