On February 27, the New York Times editorial board observed that while Democrat presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton is running on gun control, the campaigns of the various GOP presidential hopefuls are running from it. [They present Clinton as continuing the fight through which President Obama has “labored and even shed tears” for more gun control. And they juxtapose her with Donald Trump and  Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, both of whom not only oppose more gun control but are supportive of repealing the aspects of gun control that are demonstrable failures —  especially the   zones that have rendered women defenseless on college campuses and which put military personnel in a defenseless position in Chattanooga and at Fort Hood.  But the NYT editorial board does not look at gun control from the angle of whether it is constitutional or if it even works —  i. e. whether it empowers the criminal rather than the   citizen. Rather, they look at it as a pursuit where Clinton continues the Second Amendment assault Obama undertook, and they taunt GOP candidates for being “afraid” to go there. Thus, while describing Obama as having “done what he [could] through executive actions” and Clinton as wanting to go even further if given chance, they lament that the eventual GOP candidate will most certainly stand in the way of more gun control “by portraying the government as intent on trampling gun owners’ rights and confiscating their firearms. ” And it is worth noting that the NYT editorial board accuses GOP candidates of acting this way due to fealty to the “gun lobby” —  which is leftist code talk for NRA, Gun Owners of American, and National Shooting Sports Foundation (NSSF). But they do not mention the number of campaign stops that gun control proponents Gabby Giffords and her husband Mark Kelly have done and will do for Clinton. Nor do they mention how gun control lobby surrogates in the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence and other gun control groups have endorsed Clinton as the one who will use the executive office to limit the exercise of Second Amendment rights even further. Huge Congressional losses for gun controllers in 2010 and 2014 notwithstanding, the NYT editorial board is convinced gun control is a wining issue and they hope the Democrats “drive the point home all the way to November. ” AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.