Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas and Coahuila to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities.  The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by Coahuila’s “JM Martinez”.  PIEDRAS NEGRAS, Coahuila  —   The murder of a local politician’s son in this border state has brought up new questions since the case has striking similarities to the recent murder of two members of an elite police unit.  Last week, authorities in Monterey Nuevo Leon recovered the bodies of Edgar Moreno Linan, a    woman and Moreno’s bodyguard at a local hotel. Moreno Lopez is the son of Amador Moreno Lopez, the mayor of Ciudad Frontera, a small municipality about 200 miles south of this border city. At the hotel, authorities found the bodies of Moreno Linan and the young woman in a bed while the bodyguard was found right outside in his vehicle. According to the “official” version released by authorities, the three appear to have died from   poisoning since the bodyguard had the vehicle running. However according to law enforcement officials who spoke off the record, the bodies showed signs of torture and having been assaulted.  The suspicious circumstances of the case are almost identical to a similar murder that  recently took place in this border city. Last month, two members of the elite police unit known as Los Gates were murdered along with a third victim, Breitbart Texas previously reported. The two men who were murdered were members of an elite police unit known as Los GATES (Spanish acronym for SWAT) created to hunt down cartel members.  Breitbart Texas previously reported how the cartel hunting unit had been instrumental in pushing back against the Los Zetas drug cartel which had been able to operate with complete impunity for years in the border state of Coahuila.  Information gathered form law enforcement sources after the murder of the two Los GATES members revealed that the victims had been tortured and killed, however the crime scene had been made to look like an accident. The bodies had been placed in a garage next to a running vehicle making it seem as if they had died from   poisoning. Authorities have since swept the case under the rug. 