James O’Keefe’s Project Veritas released hidden camera video on Thursday, which shows Wisconsin’s Russ Feingold, a Democratic challenger for U. S. Senate, telling a Palo Alto, California, fundraiser that Hillary Clinton might use an executive order to enforce gun control. [In a video shot during the fundraiser, O’Keefe asks Feingold, “If there’s still Republican control in Congress, and if Hillary is elected, is there anything she can do could do to, uh  …    ”. Feingold jumps in and says, “Well, there might be executive order. ”  O’Keefe responds by acting like he was learning this for the first time. In a surprised voice, he saus, “Oh, so she can  …    I know that President Obama  …    ” Feingold then takes over the conversation, saying, “He did some executive orders with the aspects of waiting periods. But what we all need is to win the Senate, have her there, and then put pressure on the House. And we might win the House. ” O’Keefe also spoke with Amy Rao, Clinton’s friend and host of the fundraiser. On hidden camera video, Rao says, “Hillary wants to shut it down. She wants to shut it down,” referring to guns. Rao continued: “If we can get guns away from everyone in this country, she’ll close the loopholes, get rid of assault weapons. She’ll get rid of being able to buy, you know, unlimited bullets. She’s going to make all that stop. ”   On October 7, Breitbart News reported that Wikileaks released an email from Clinton press secretary Brian Fallon, wherein he made it clear she plans to use executive orders to secure control. The email was dated October 4, 2015. Fallon wrote: Circling back around on guns as a follow up to the Friday morning discussion: the Today show has indicated they definitely plan to ask [a]bout guns, and so to have the discussion be more of a news event than her previous times discussing guns, we are going to background reporters tonight on a few of the specific proposals she would support as President  —   universal background checks of course, but also closing the gun show loophole by executive order and imposing manufacturer liability. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.