Rapper Azealia Banks is ready to vote for Donald Trump should he earn the Republican presidential nomination  —   because America is “inherently evil” and “full of ” so we “may as well put a piece of   in the White House. ”[The rapper, who has previously said she “hate[s] everything about this country,” kicked off a series of Twitter posts late Sunday night by saying that she is “ready to admit” that she’s “going to vote for Donald Trump. ”  Ok so, I think I’m ready to admit that I’m going to vote for Donald Trump.  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  I think Trump is the only one who truly has the balls to bust up big business. Hilary is too tied in with them and Bernie  has no clout.  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  The other candidates are simply   …     ”Them hoes over there” #thots,  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  Just because Hilary Clinton and Bernie sanders say nice things about minorities doesn’t mean they actually mean them,  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  Politicians have been saying ”nice” things about colored folks and we’ve still been getting fucked.  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  I only trust this country to be what it is: full of shit. takes shit to know shit so we may as well, put a piece of shit in the White House,  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  I have no hope for America. It is what it is. Capitalist, consumerist, racist land of make believe. Its inherently evil and must feed   …      —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  On others for it to survive. I didn’t create it. I’m not proud of it . But I am here  …    . And it’s all I know.  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  I was having a conversation over dinner with a friend about ”the greater good of America” and what it means figuratively and literally,  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  Like, how could the American Dream at this point survive without relying on a systematically oppressed underclass,  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  Can it ?   …     It can’t. It’s fucked up to know that in order for me to have this first world life someone somewhere else is suffering,  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  But what do you do? And what does it mean? Do societies naturally organize themselves this way? Is this fate or conspiracy ?  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  I’m very   and   but American exceptionalism and the American paradigm is super interesting to me.  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  Just how this web of lies and oppression has spawned itself into this global influence and made people proud to be a part of it,  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  So proud that they’ll fight and die for it.  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  In conclusion, I think Donald trump is evil like America is evil and in order for America to keep up with itself it needs him.  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  Banks apparently received strong blowback on her posts from her Twitter followers, because she followed up shortly afterward to defend herself. why are you guys telling me to kill myself ? That’s what’s wrong with the USA. Everyone pretends to be   but they’re really not.  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  No critical thinking allowed for the black woman. Sheesh.  —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  The rapper also suggested that Trump would be the candidate most likely to secure reparations for the black community: Yes but he also recently said something very distasteful about reparations for slavery. So, I’m not voting for him.  https:  .   —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  How will we ever get reparations if America has no money? We’ve gotta stop dumping all our dollars in China someday https:  .   —   azealiabanks (@AZEALIABANKS) February 1, 2016,  In September, Banks tweeted that she “sort of agree[s] with [Trump’s] stance on immigration. ” The outspoken rapper made waves last March when she told Playboy magazine that she hates “fat white Americans. ” “All the people who are crunched into the middle of America, the real fat and meat of America, are these racist conservative white people who live on their farms,” she told the magazine.