Speaking to an overflow crowd in Lynden, Washington, Donald Trump called Democratic presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton “trigger happy” on foreign policy:[On foreign policy Hillary is trigger happy. She is, she’s trigger happy. She’s got a bad temperament. By the way, and her husband learned that a few times didn’t he? Bad timing. No it’s bad timing. But she’s trigger happy. You look what she did, and look at this, I just wrote this down. Iraq, Libya she voted, Iraq, let’s go into Iraq. I voted against it except I was a civilian so nobody cared. From the beginning I said it’s gonna destabilize the Middle East and Iran will take over Iraq. Ya know for years they’ve been trying to get Iraq and Iraq has been trying to get Iran. We decimated that country’s military and now the country’s a mess. And what we did is we got ISIS, they got oil. Trump moved on to slam former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s successor, John Kerry:  Now Iran, not only did they make a great deal with this total idiot Secretary of State that we have  —   he’s a clown. I’m telling ya he’s a clown. He never left the table once. He never left the table once. He’s making a deal with the Persians who are grea, t great negotiators over history. “They’re killing him,” said Trump of Kerry’s negotiations with Iran. “Instead he goes on a bicycle and he breaks his leg so badly that for six months he’s out  …    ” Trump vowed, “I promise you I will never be in a bicycle race. I give you my word, okay? I promise. ” Trump returned to speaking of Clinton: Her decisions in Iraq, Syria, Egypt, Libya have cost trillions of dollars, thousands of lives, and have totally unleashed ISIS. Now thousands of lives yes, for us, but probably millions of lives in all fairness, folks. He referred to another side to the story. “You know, they bomb a city, I watch it, they bomb a city and you go and you see this city that’s obliterated, obliterated. We started this. Obama couldn’t get us out properly, but we started this now it’s a total mess. If nothing would have happened we would have been far better off than we are now. We spent four trillion dollars. ” Trump called out reports from the Middle East that showed cities laid waste with statements that nobody was killed. “I’ll bet you thousands and thousands of people were killed every time you see that television set. ” “We’ve lost thousands of lives,  trillions of dollars, millions of people have been killed,” said Trump, postulating that if the United States had done nothing, “We would have been in much better shape. ” Trump called Saddam Hussein a horrible, miserable, bad guy but said that he did something very well: “He killed terrorists. ” “Now Iraq is Harvard for terrorists,” said Trump. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 