President Barack Obama offers multiple excuses for why health insurance premiums continue to skyrocket, including blaming Republicans and insurance companies for the problems. [He complains that too many reporters spend more time discussing premium increases than explaining why he isn’t responsible for them.  “No, I had nothing to do with that,” Obama said, calling it “complicated” despite the “hysteria” that was growing. Obama traveled to Florida to argue that Obamacare was working well, but needed to be fixed. During his speech, he pointed out that when smart phone companies released a product that had bugs in it, they fixed it. “Unless it catches fire. Then they pull it off the market,” he admitted, likely referring to the disastrous exploding Samsung Galaxy S7.  But the president argued that companies weren’t trying to repeal smart phones, but rather fix the problems with the modern devices rather than return to rotary dial up phones. “We’re not going to go back,” Obama said, challenging Republicans who repeatedly called for an Obamacare repeal. The president argued that most people got their health care from their jobs, insisting that Obamacare didn’t even affect their premiums or health policy changes. “These are decisions made by your employers, it’s not because of Obamacare,” he said. He blamed Republicans for failing to sign up more young people into the insurance pools, and continuing to block the expansion of Medicare. “Part of this is because health care is complicated,” he admitted. Obama also admitted that smaller markets in different states were suffering from the lack of competition among private insurers. To fix it, he suggested that the government should step in and offer cheaper plans in areas that weren’t getting enough options. Obama explained that thanks to Obamacare, Americans now got free preventive care, free checkups for women, free mammograms, and allowed children to stay on their parents health care plans into their 20s. “You’re getting better quality, even though you don’t know that Obamacare is doing it,” he said. “Thanks Obama. ”