The head of a Dallas police organization is suing a collection of Black Lives Matter figureheads and other prominent individuals for allegedly inciting racial violence against American police officers. [Dallas Police Department Sergeant Demetrick Pennie, President of the Dallas Fallen Officer Foundation, filed an amended federal complaint September 16 against more than a dozen defendant institutions and individuals to build a class action case on behalf of “police officers and other law enforcement persons of all races and ethnicities including but not limited to Jews, Christians and Caucasians” for “inciting” race riots and related violence.  The suit hopes to produce damages and an injunction placed against alleged threats of   violence going forward. The defendants represent a who’s who of public figures in both racial and general political matters. Apart from founding members and public faces related to Black Lives Matter, Louis Farrakhan and the Nation of Islam Rev. Al Sharpton and the National Action Network Malik Zulu Shabazz and the New Black Panthers George Soros President Barack Obama former U. S. Attorney General Eric Holder and Democrat Nominee Hillary Clinton are all included in the suit. The   federal complaint alleges that each defendant individual and organization “repeatedly incited their supporters and others to engage in threats and attacks” against police officers around the nation, culminating in the July killings of five Dallas area officers with nine others wounded at a Black Lives Matter gathering. The complaint singles out George Soros as “the financier of the BLM Defendants and similar organizations with the goal of inciting a race war” and advocating violence against whites and Jews. Defendants Obama and Clinton are blamed for repeatedly endorsing behaviors carried out and surrounding Black Lives Matter. Sgt. Pennie is being represented by Larry Klayman of FreedomWatch. Klayman previously founded the conservative legal watchdog Judicial Watch. “Sergeant Pennie and I feel   to put ourselves forward to seek an end to the incitement of violence against law enforcement which has already resulted in the death of five police officers in Dallas and the wounding of seven more, just in Texas alone,” Klayman said in a release. Sgt. Pennie told Breitbart Texas that he felt he had a duty to stand for officers in Texas and across the nation. “This action was brought to stop the violence and killings of law enforcement officers in Dallas and throughout the nation. ” The plaintiffs hope to see an award in excess of $500 million, according to the complaint. The federal lawsuit was originally filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas. A copy of the amended complaint has been made available below. Logan Churchwell is the Assistant Editor and a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. You can follow him on Twitter @LCChurchwell. Pennie v. Soros et al Amended Complaint by BreitbartTexas on Scribd, 