The Turkish government claims to have seen off an attempted military coup that began on Friday afternoon as President Erdogan was on holiday in the south of the country. [Update 0900 EST   1300 BST,  AFP News agency reports comments by the Turkish Prime Minister that the total dead in the coup bid are 161, with 3, 000 now taken prisoner. Despite claims that the situation is totally under control by the turkish government, it is thought coup plotters are still offering resistance in some areas. Those who escaped Turkey to neighbouring Greece have been identified by Athens News Agency and reportd by AFP as three majors, three captains and two sergeant majors. Update 0630 EST   1030 BST, According to reports in Greek media, a Turkish military helicopter has landed at Alexandroupolis airport. GreeceReporter states the aircraft was escorted by two Greek airforce fighter jets and requested permission to land, claiming it was suffering from mechanical failure. Once on the ground it was found to be carrying seven Turkish army officers and one civilian involved with the failed overnight coup, who subsequently claimed asylum in Greece. GreeceReporter states their arrival causes a huge “headache” for the Greek government given the determination of their significantly larger and more militarily powerful neighbour Turkey to severely punish the coup plotters. The website also reported unconfirmed reports that some coup plotters had already been beheaded. The website carries this as of yet unverified photograph of a Blackhawk helicopter consistent with the kind used by the Turkish armed forces: Update 0535 EST   1035 BST, A summary of events of the past few hours from a Reuters newswire:   July 16 (Reuters)  —   Forces loyal to the Turkish government fought on Saturday to crush the remnants of a military coup attempt which crumbled after crowds answered President Tayyip Erdogan’s call to take to the streets and dozens of rebels abandoned their tanks. Ninety people were killed, including many civilians after a faction of the armed forces tried to seize power using tanks and attack helicopters. Some strafed the headquarters of Turkish intelligence and parliament in the capital, Ankara, and others seized a major bridge in Istanbul. Erdogan appeared to accuse the coup plotters of trying to kill him and said he would purge the armed forces, which in the past have staged a number of successful coups, although not for more than 30 years. “They will pay a heavy price for this,” he said. “This uprising is a gift from God to us because this will be a reason to cleanse our army. ” Later, the presidency warned on Twitter that another uprising could be staged at any time. Turkish authorities have already detained about 1, 500 members of the armed forces, officials said. The chief of staff, who had been reported held hostage by the rebels, has been rescued, a senior official said. A successful overthrow of Erdogan, who has ruled Turkey since 2003, would have marked one of the biggest shifts in the Middle East in years, transforming a major U. S. ally while war rages on its border. However, a failed coup attempt could still destabilise a NATO member that lies between the European Union and the chaos of Syria, with Islamic State bombers targeting Turkish cities and the government also at war with Kurdish separatists. Erdogan, who had been holidaying on the southwest coast when the coup was launched, flew into Istanbul before dawn on Saturday and was shown on TV outside Ataturk Airport. Addressing a crowd of thousands of   supporters at the airport later, Erdogan said the government remained at the helm, although disturbances continued in Ankara. Erdogan, whose   ideology lies at odds with supporters of modern Turkey’s secular principles, said the plotters had tried to attack him in the resort town of Marmaris. “They bombed places I had departed right after I was gone,” he said. “They probably thought we were still there. ” The acting armed forces chief of staff, Umit Dundar, reported heavy casualties. Among the 90 dead were 47 civilians while a further 1, 154 people had been wounded. In a live statement broadcast on CNN Turk, Dundar said many military commanders have been taken hostage by the rebels but he declared that Turkey has “closed the chapter” on coups for good. Erdogan’s AK Party, with roots in Islamism, has long had a strained relationship with the military and nationalists. The armed forces have had a history of mounting coups to defend secularism, but have not seized power directly since 1980. Operations involving police special forces and the military were still underway to regain control of the armed forces headquarters in Ankara, one official said. Update 0515 EST   1015 BST, Latest pictures from Turkey via Getty Images: Update, 0445 EST   0945 BST, President Erdogan is clawing back control in Turkey after the attempted military coup appears to have failed. Agence France Presse reports over 100 revolutionary soldiers were killed overnight, and more than 1, 500 soldiers have been arrested. Although Erdogan has been able to enter Istanbul fighting has not yet ceased as rebels still hold the army headquarters and according to claims by the new cheif of staff appointed by Erdogan last night, they are holding senior generals hostage. #UPDATE: Erdogan asserts control as Turkey coup bid falters https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 16, 2016,  Update, 11:43PM EST: BREAKING: Anadolu Agency: Military helicopter used by coup plotters shot down in outskirts of Ankara.  —   The Associated Press (@AP) July 16, 2016,  #BREAKING: Turkish coup soldiers in Istanbul surrender on Bosphorus bridge: TV pictures,  —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 16, 2016,  #BREAKING: Turkish   launch air strikes against tanks outside palace: presidential source,  —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 16, 2016,  Update, 11:42PM EST: At least 60 killed during #Turkishcoup  —   prosecutor’s office pic. twitter.  https:  .   —   RT (@RT_com) July 16, 2016,  Update, 11:40PM EST: Turkish President Recep Erdogan addresses crowd in Istanbul: ”The government is not leaving the state. We will be prepared to die.”  —   USA TODAY (@USATODAY) July 16, 2016,  Update, 11:28PM EST: #BREAKING: Jet drops bomb near Turkish presidential palace in Ankara: TV,  —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 16, 2016,  Update, 11:26PM EST: Ultimate fate of coup remains uncertain in early hours Saturday in Turkey https:  .   —   MarketWatch (@MarketWatch) July 16, 2016,  Update, 10:51PM EST: After the coup attempt: A defiant President Erdogan in Turkey https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Financial Times (@FT) July 16, 2016,  Turkey latest: Traffic is at a standstill in Istanbul as the sun rises after the night’s attempted military coup https:  .   —   Sky News (@SkyNews) July 16, 2016,  Update, 10:27PM EST: A sr us official told me looks like turkey coup attempt over, erdogan won.  —   Richard Engel (@RichardEngel) July 16, 2016,  BREAKING: NTV television quotes prosecutor’s office in Ankara saying at least 42 people have been killed in ’attacks’ in the capital.  —   The Associated Press (@AP) July 16, 2016,  Turkish officials say coup plotters being arrested https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Yahoo Finance (@YahooFinance) July 16, 2016,  Update, 10:25PM EST: #BREAKING: Turkey PM orders military to shoot down aircraft hijacked by coup plotters,  —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 16, 2016,  a#UPDATE: Chaos in Turkey as military attempts   coup https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 16, 2016,  Update, 10:11PM EST:Five other famous coups in history. Update, 10:10PM EST: Turkish president returns to Istanbul after coup: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Reuters Top News (@Reuters) July 16, 2016,  Lawyer for Turkish government: Cleric living in exile in Pennsylvania involved in Turkey coup attempt. https:  .   —   The Associated Press (@AP) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:44PM EST: #BREAKING: Turkey PM says more than 120 arrested over coup attempt,  —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:38PM EST: Many commentators describe the coup attempt as ”staged” after Erdogan calls it a ”gift from Allah.”  —   Mahir Zeynalov (@MahirZeynalov) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:34PM EST: President Erdogan says his hotel on Turkey’s Aegean coast was bombed after he left https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Sky News (@SkyNews) July 16, 2016,  LATEST: Turkey’s Erdogan says he was targeted for assassination in coup attempt https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Financial Times (@FT) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:33PM EST:Bold leadership here: Hillary on the situation in #Turkey. pic. twitter.   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:31PM EST: BREAKING: President Recep Tayyip Erdogan says prime minister has given orders to ”eradicate” those who are shooting from the air. —  @AP,  —   Fox5NY (@fox5ny) July 16, 2016,  Video: Heavy gunfire as protesters try to block a tank before it crushes a car  pic. twitter.   —   BNO News (@BNONews) July 16, 2016,  Video: Heavy gunfire as protesters try to block a tank before it crushes a car  pic. twitter.   —   BNO News (@BNONews) July 16, 2016,  VIDEO: Turkish presidency releases video of attack on presidential palace https:  .   —   BNO News (@BNONews) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:23PM EST: President Erdogan says Turkey uprising is an act of treason, and those responsible will pay a heavy price https:  .   —   Sky News (@SkyNews) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:19PM EST: Istanbul hospital reportedly treating at least 150 wounded people #Turkey https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Sky News (@SkyNews) July 16, 2016,  Update  —   AP: Official at Haydarpasa Numune Hospital in the Uskudar district of #Istanbul says they have admitted at least 150 injured people,  —   Sky News Newsdesk (@SkyNewsBreak) July 16, 2016,  BREAKING: Shots fired live on national TV as coup plotters take over turkish newsroom https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Daily Express (@Daily_Express) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:18PM EST: Erdoğan arrived in Atatürk airport, about to start speaking now.. pic. twitter.   —   Ahmed Al Omran (@ahmed) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:15PM EST: At least 6 dead, 100 wounded in clashes in Istanbul amid attempted coup: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   ABC News (@ABC) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:09PM EST: President Erdogan has flown into Istanbul amid government claims that the Turkish military coup has failed https:  .   —   Daily Mail Online (@MailOnline) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:08PM EST: Facebook Live feed of CNN Turk broadcasts studio takeover by military https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Verge (@verge) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:07PM EST: BREAKING: President Erdogan emerges from vehicle at Istanbul’s airport, welcomed by large crowd of civilians pic. twitter.   —   BNO News (@BNONews) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:05PM EST: VIDEO: Smoke seen rising from Turkish Parliament in #Ankara  —   @140journospic. twitter.   —   Conflict News (@Conflicts) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:04PM EST: Coup Appears to Be Faltering Erdogan Expected to Return to Istanbul https:  .   —   New York Times World (@nytimesworld) July 16, 2016,  Update, 9:03PM EST:https:  .      Update, 9:01PM EST: Moment the parliament got struck by airstrike from coup loyal aircraft #Ankara #Turkey pic. twitter.   —   Tonton du Bled (@NextDoorArab) July 16, 2016,  Update, 8:55PM EST: Police and military exchange fire in Istanbul’s Taksim square, large explosion heard. https:  .   —   The Associated Press (@AP) July 16, 2016,  Update, 8:50PM EST: Lt. Col. Ralph Peters: “This coup is #Turkey’s last chance to avoid becoming an authoritarian Islamic regime  …    ” pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) July 16, 2016,  Lt. Col. Ralph Peters on military coup in #Turkey: “They are trying to save their country. ” #OReillyFactor pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) July 16, 2016,  Lt. Col. Peters on #Turkey: ”If the coup succeeds, Islamists lose and we win.” #OReillyFactor pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) July 16, 2016,  Update, 8:44PM EST: CNN Turk anchor reports soldiers have entered their building: ”That’s it, we now have to go” https:  .   —   CNN Breaking News (@cnnbrk) July 16, 2016,  Update, 8:43PM EST: JUST IN: Member of Turkish parliament reached by phone tells Reuters lawmakers hiding in shelters at parliament: https:  .   —   Reuters Top News (@Reuters) July 16, 2016,  Update, 8:39PM EST: #BREAKING: Plane carrying Erdogan set to land at Istanbul airport: presidential source,  —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 16, 2016,  #BREAKING ’Situation largely under control’ after Turkey coup attempt: PM,  —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 15, 2016,  Update, 8:38PM EST: In Turkey, indications emerged that coup leaders didn’t have a tight grip on many parts of the country https:  .   —   The New York Times (@nytimes) July 16, 2016,  Update, 8:37PM EST:   within military being arrested by police as gov’t takes situation under controlhttps:  .  pic. twitter.   —   DAILY SABAH (@DailySabah) July 15, 2016,  #BREAKING Turkish parliament in Ankara hit by bombing: state news agency,  —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 15, 2016,  Update, 7:34PM EST:Wow: Images of crowds hugging soldiers  cheering atop APCs, unclear if supporting or resisting military #TurkeyCoup pic. twitter.   —   Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) July 15, 2016,  Chants, cheers near Istanbul’s Bosphorus Bridge amid attempted coup in Turkey pic. twitter.   —   Reuters Live (@ReutersLive) July 15, 2016,  Update, 7:33PM EST: Photos: The prime minister of Turkey said that factions of the military had attempted a coup https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The New York Times (@nytimes) July 15, 2016,  Update, 7:32PM EST:A fascinating development if true: UPDATE: Erdogan reportedly denied asylum in Germany, now headed to London: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast) July 15, 2016, And this would be the chaser: True Story: Reports Erdogan is seeking British Asylum. Britain’s new Foreign Sec called him a goatf***er in May.  https:  .   —   Downtown Josh Brown (@ReformedBroker) July 15, 2016,  Update, 7:30PM EST: 17 Turkish officers ’killed in a helicopter attack on police special forces headquarters’ https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Independent (@Independent) July 15, 2016,  Update, 7:24PM EST: Tank fire reported near parliament building in Ankara https:  .   —   Los Angeles Times (@latimes) July 15, 2016,  Update, 7:21PM EST:Predictably, Obama comes out in support or Erdogan: Obama: All parties in Turkey should support   government, show restraint. https:  .   —   The Associated Press (@AP) July 15, 2016, The ground behind the coup clearly did not believe they would have the White House’s support: . @jonkarl: Situation in #Turkey has taken White House officials “completely by surprise.”  —   Dan Linden (@DanLinden) July 15, 2016,  Update, 7:20PM EST: From the New York Times: ISTANBUL  —   The prime minister of Turkey said on Friday night that factions of the military had attempted a coup. There were sharply conflicting statements about who was in control of the country, a NATO member and important United States ally, which has been convulsed by military takeovers at least three times over the past  . “Some people illegally undertook an illegal action outside of the chain of command,” Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said in comments broadcast on NTV, a private television channel. “The government elected by the people remains in charge. This government will only go when the people say so. ” Shortly after Mr. Yildirim spoke, the Turkish military issued a statement, according to the news agency DHA, claiming it had taken control of the country. “Turkish armed forces seized the rule of the country completely with the aim of reinstalling the constitutional order, democracy, human rights and freedoms, to make rule of law pervade again, to   the ruined public order,” the statement quoted by DHA said. “All the international agreements and promises are valid. We hope our good relations with all global countries goes on. ” The   Anadolu News Agency said hostages had been taken at military headquarters in Ankara, the capital, including the chief of staff. Update, 7:19PM EST: LATEST: Tanks have reportedly opened fire around the parliament building in #Turkey https:  .   —   Bloomberg (@business) July 15, 2016,  #BREAKING Turkish   shoot down helicopter carrying ‘coup plotters’: NTV television,  —   AFP news agency (@AFP) July 15, 2016,  WATCH: Turkish civilians climb on top of tank as crowd fights back against military coup https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Daily Express (@Daily_Express) July 15, 2016, Update, 6:00 PM EST, From LiveLeak comes footage of that military helicopter firing on a ground target, reportedly the headquarters of the National Intelligence Service: Update, 5:50 PM EST, After reports of heavy gunfire near the presidential palace, AFP is reporting that a “strong explosion” has been heard in Ankara. The U. S. Embassy in Turkey confirmed the gunfire in Anakra. Eyewitnesses report some of the gunfire came from military helicopters. Erdogan’s address to the nation, which used Apple’s FaceTime as well as Skype, was a rather bizarre spectacle: Erdoğan addressing the nation like this #Turkey pic. twitter.   —   Amberin Zaman (@amberinzaman) July 15, 2016,  Update, 5:45 PM EST, The coup appears to have a name, the “Turkish Peace Council. ” Turkey’s Justice Minister has claimed the coup is led by followers of Erdogan’s nemesis, U. S.  imam Fethullah Gulen. Update, 5:40 PM EST, President Erdogan resorted to using Skype and Facebook to address the people of Turkey, telling them to leave their homes, flood the airport, and remain outside in defiance of the military curfew. Update, 5:30 PM EST, The coup is acting like they have this whole thing just about wrapped up, while the Erdogan government behaves as if it remains in power. European Union observers are reporting that military forces have taken control of airports and strategic points across Istanbul. The UK Guardian reports chaos in the streets of Istanbul, with “people running in all directions,” while “restaurants and shops are closing,” and “cars are honking their horns and driving on the wrong side of the road. ” The Telegraph reports that President Erdogan has given a statement, in which he described the coup as “an uprising attempt by a minority within the military,” and spoke of a “parallel structure” within the Turkish government. Erdogan reportedly attempted to fly back to Turkey, but was refused landing clearance in Istanbul, and is now seeking asylum in Germany. Update, 5:20 PM EST, U. S. military forces at Turkish airbases, including the main base at Incirlik, have been ordered to “Force Protection Condition Delta,” their highest alert level. A broadcast on state TRT television has declared that “Erdogan’s rule has come to an end. ” The military has imposed martial law, and is reportedly already at work on a new constitution. Update, 5:15 PM EST, All flights from Istanbul’s Ataturk airport have reportedly been canceled. According to the UK Telegraph, troops have been seen at the headquarters of the state television channel, TRT, in Ankara. A televised statement from the coup, whose exact membership is not yet known, announced that “the power in the country has been seized in its entirety. ” “A Turkish official who did not want to be named said soldiers had been deployed in other cities in Turkey, but did not specify which ones,” Reuters relates. “Dogan News Agency reported the national police directorate had summoned all police to duty in Ankara. ” Update, 5:00 PM EST, The UK Guardian cites “numerous reports that hostages have been taken in the Turkish capital, Ankara,” among them the chief of military staff. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is not among the hostages he’s on vacation, and is not in Turkey at the moment. The Turkish military released a statement: “Turkish Armed Forces have completely taken over the administration of the country to reinstate constitutional order, human rights and freedoms, the rule of law and general security that was damaged. All international agreements are still valid. We hope that all of our good relationships with all countries will continue. ”  —   —   —   —    The UK Telegraph reports that while Prime Minister Binali Yildirim urged the public to remain calm, and said “it would be wrong to call it a coup,” he conceded that “part of the military” was making an “illegal attempt” to seize power. It sounds like a spirited attempt, judging from tidbits of information flowing onto social media: Turkish soldiers block both bridges on the Bosphorus in Istanbul and jets flying low in Ankara. Reason not clear yet pic. twitter.   —   Selin Girit (@selingirit) July 15, 2016,  BREAKING: Military jets flying over Turkish capital Ankara military vehicles blocking bridges in Istanbul, reports say.  —   The Associated Press (@AP) July 15, 2016,  BREAKING: Gunfire heard in Turkish capital, military jets and helicopters flying over   Reuters witnesses,  —   Reuters World (@ReutersWorld) July 15, 2016,  Turkish broadcaster NTV is showing footage of tanks at the entrance to Istanbul’s Ataturk Airport  —   Reuters https:  .   —   Breaking News (@BreakingNews) July 15, 2016,  Social media services Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube were reportedly blocked shortly before 11:00 PM local time.