WASHINGTON  —   In an interview with Time magazine on Wednesday, President Trump cited The New York Times as evidence of his claim, made in a series of Twitter posts on March 4, that President Barack Obama had wiretapped his phones in Trump Tower during the 2016 presidential campaign. The F. B. I. director, other top intelligence officials and numerous Republicans have rejected this claim. Here’s an assessment of Mr. Trump’s references to The Times’s reporting. False. Mr. Trump was referring to an article published online on Jan. 19 and in print on Jan. 20 that disclosed that American law enforcement and intelligence agencies were examining intercepted communications and financial transactions as part of a broad investigation into possible links between Russian officials and associates of Mr. Trump. There were in fact two different headlines on the online and print versions of the article, which is typical. At no point was either headline altered. Times headlines often differ in print and online, in part because of variations in presentation and in part because of space. This disparity is always noted at the end of the web version and has been noted since the story was first published in print on Jan. 20. In this case, the article appeared in print with the headline, “Wiretapped Data Used in Inquiry of Trump Aides,” followed by two subheadlines, “Examining Russian Ties” and “Business Dealings of Campaign Advisors Are Investigated. ” Online, the headline read, “Intercepted Russian Communications Part of Inquiry Into Trump Associates. ” As the conservative publication National Review has reported and as the Wayback Machine’s archive of the 336 caches of the story shows, the web headline has remained the same from initial publication. .. . ..to two days after Mr. Trump made his accusation on Twitter. .. . ..to Thursday, March 23, the day his interview with Time magazine was published. This is misleading. Neither the print nor online version of the article supports Mr. Trump’s accusation that Mr. Obama ordered surveillance on him. The Times reported that there were intercepted conversations involving Mr. Trump’s associates, but it did not report that they or Mr. Trump were the subject of wiretap orders. To date, The Times has not found evidence of that. Mr. Trump’s initial accusations specifically targeted Mr. Obama, whom The Times article does not mention. The independent   website PolitiFact rated Mr. Trump’s assertion False, and The Washington Post awarded the claim Four Pinocchios, its lowest rating, twice. “The bald assertion that Obama had Trump wiretapped is nowhere supported by the story. That is fiction,” said Jay Rosen, a media critic and professor of journalism at New York University. When asked if The Times article could give Mr. Trump a false impression that Mr. Obama wiretapped him, Mr. Rosen said, “It does not. No one reading it in good faith would say that. ’’ American intelligence agencies typically monitor the communications of foreign officials of allied and hostile countries, and so they routinely sweep up any conversations between American citizens and those officials  —   called “incidental collection. ” For example, it is routine for F. B. I. counterintelligence officials to keep the Russian ambassador under surveillance. Therefore, when Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, spoke on the phone with the Russian ambassador during the presidential transition, the government intercepted that conversation because it was wiretapping the ambassador. This is misleading. Mr. Trump did put the word in quotes in two of his tweets, but explicitly accused Mr. Obama of wiretapping his phones. “I’d bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that President Obama was tapping my phones in October, just prior to Election!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter in an   post on March 4. Ten minutes later, he doubled down, writing, “How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process. This is  . Bad (or sick) guy!” Again, there is no evidence that Mr. Obama ordered surveillance of Mr. Trump’s phones, nor can a president legally request wiretapping of an American.