Democrat pollster and analyst Pat Caddell told Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Tuesday, “The biggest news should be that tomorrow, Nancy Pelosi will face a secret ballot vote” to determine the party’s leadership. [Pelosi is favored, per reports, but there are deep divisions within the party. Asked if she may be ousted as minority leader, Caddell said, “I think there’s a chance. ”  ‘The caucus is so small, relatively, and it’s made up of more of the farther left people from safer districts,” said Caddell, adding, “  of the membership is just from a couple states: California, New York, and Massachusetts. ” As for Pelosi, he said, “What is her argument: ‘I have done a great job losing the most number of seats for you over three or four elections? We’re still sixty seats behind’”? Caddell said House Democrats’ problem is how far out of the mainstream they are. “The Democrats are facing problems in all of these states where they have just been wiped out down to the legislative level. The bench isn’t there,” he added. Pointing out their strength on the coasts, especially California, Caddell said, “They are not the party of the rest of the country. ” “They’ve learned nothing,” said Caddell. “Nothing has changed since the election. ” Caddell contends that instead of dwelling on the issues there, Democrats and the media are focused on recount efforts, which only continue to fuel divisions across the nation on the heels of the election. When Marlow asked if Democrats supporting a recount effort in certain states may have an impact in terms of putting another Clinton email investigation back on the table, Caddell said it should not. However, he also added, “I’m hoping that Donald Trump will allow Jeff Sessions as attorney general” to make the decision whether or not to go forward with a new investigation of Hillary Clinton’s email scandal. The topic came up while discussing the ramifications of Clinton’s support of Jill Stein’s recount efforts, which many see as an attempt to undermine the coming Trump presidency even before it gets started. Caddell said he understood the dynamics of the decision and that one would not want to be perceived as doing it simply to “persecute” a former political opponent. “Meanwhile,” said Caddell, “we’ve got real problems here in a country where the vast majority know that we have two standards of justice  —   one for the rich and powerful and one for everyone else. ” “My hope is in order to   this situation is that the Attorney General and the President will make clear that there’s evidence of things that need to be investigated and get a special counsel outside of Washington who will do a job as a total professional person and take politics out of it,” said Caddell. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: