On Monday’s Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Alex Marlow, Dr. Sebastian Gorka said, “All of the attacks over the weekend, all three of them, and the detonation of a backpack that we had just now, is part and parcel of the new jihadi tactic that we’ve seen in the last two years. ”[Gorka added:  ISIS has encouraged, since it declared the Caliphate, the use of classic guerilla warfare. It’s not like  . It’s not about giant spectacle. It’s not    attacks. It’s cheap,     return.  We have seen, literally, scores of knife attacks in Israel since September. They’ve taken a leaf out of the Palestinian playbook. We’ve seen the attack, the murder of the French priest. We’ve seen the lorry attack, the truck attack in Nice, France.  These are all very, very simple to do, and the ISIS mantra, from their magazine Dabiq, has been clear: look for high concentrations of unarmed civilians. What did we see? We see a food court in St. Cloud. We see in New Jersey a Marine Corps   run. If those pipe bombs had detonated when the runners were going past  —   by the grace of God, the runners had been delayed at the registration desk  —   it would have made the weekend’s events much worse. Another bit of “connective tissue” between these terror attacks highlighted by Gorka was the use of   bombs, similar to those favored by the Tsarnaev brothers in Boston. “A lot of people miss the fact that when they were being chased by the police, after the marathon attack, they also used pipe bombs,” he added. “They threw pipe bombs at the police officers that were trying to neutralize them. ” “Anybody who says they’re surprised by what happened over the weekend has been asleep for the last two years,” he declared. Marlow trenchantly noted that Hillary Clinton seemed to have literally been asleep during the latest round of terror attacks: “sleepwalking through it, she can barely keep her eyes open as she first declares it a bombing and then condemns Donald Trump for using the word ‘bomb. ’” Gorka addressed Marlow’s point about the danger of Americans growing accustomed to terrorist atrocities: Let’s just look at the numbers. Three attacks, okay? Eleven devices. There were five that were found in a backpack just last night. There were four only one detonated in New Jersey. Then we have the two   bombs, and on top of that, we have the knife attack. This is the kind of density of attack and devices that we recall from the Cold War. This is like the IRA period. The war is real, and the war has arrived at America’s shores, and I think it makes the November decision all the more a decision about which candidate you think is going to be the more effective    who takes this war seriously, and who doesn’t have just incredible gaffes, like Johnson, or just complete   oxymoronic statements, such as Secretary Clinton? Gorka said there are two big reasons the Left is more obsessed with policing language than stopping terrorism: Number one, if they admit this is a jihadi threat coming from Arab or Muslim communities or Egypt, then the whole multicultural narrative is proven to be bankrupt. Number one is this huge failure, for the last 30 years, of politically correct multicultural narratives. And secondly, the other reason the administration, and people like Secretary Clinton, have to deny the reality of the escalating threat is the natural conclusion everybody will draw. So what does that mean about the last     years of your counterterrorism policy? It means it is an utter, abject failure.  Dr. Sebastian Gorka is the National Security Editor for Breitbart News, and the author of the   book Defeating Jihad: The Winnable War. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 