On Wednesday, pollster and political analyst Pat Caddell told Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Alex Marlow that Bill Clinton’s recent comments calling Obamacare a “crazy system” were “devastating” but are already “being discounted” as if the former president were “the King Lear   …     or the crazy uncle up in his attic. ”[“I think Bill Clinton’s comments yesterday on healthcare were amazing. And already that’s being discounted like he is the King Lear   …     or the crazy uncle up in his attic. But those are devastating comments,” Caddell said.  Clinton was critical of Obamacare on the stump, as Breitbart News reported yesterday: “So you’ve got this crazy system where all of a sudden 25 million more people have health care and then the people who are out there busting it, sometimes 60 hours a week, wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. It’s the craziest thing in the world,” Clinton said about President Obama’s health care reform during a rally in Flint, Michigan on Monday. As for what Republican candidate Donald Trump needs to do now in a race that Caddell sees as close based upon recent polling, said Caddell, “The thing he needs to do better is raise the stakes in the election into a referendum. ” He noted that the choice for voters is “whether or not they’re going to take back control of their country. That’s what this revolt has been all year in both parties   …     the Sanders effort, the Trump emergence. And go to those questions of past and future, do you want to keep going the course we have, or do you think we need change. ” Caddell also said he doesn’t believe the race has firmed up yet, although that is beginning to happen. “People are not happy where the country is going,” continued Caddell. “They are unhappy with the economy. They are not happy with American foreign policy. And when you get down through the specifics to the broader issues   …     Iran, foreign policy, all of these things, more important than anything is the issue of who owns the country. The political class is in charge. And when you raise it to that level   …     this is a campaign for the country. ” Caddell also pointed out that Trump is the “independent variable” in the campaign as to whether he wins or loses, and he needs to broaden the election theme to one in which the people want to take back control of the country from the political class. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. EST. LISTEN: 