South Carolina’s win over   Duke was not only a surprise to fans. In the postgame revelry, Coach Frank Martin had to ask an assistant whom his team would face next. “Who we got?” Martin said. The answer was that the   Gamecocks would face Baylor in New York, at Madison Square Garden. A tide of emotions swept over the coach. Martin knows the deep roots that the South Carolina program has here, the pipeline that the former coach Frank McGuire once established out of the boroughs, busing a city’s flair to the southern countryside. First, Bobby Cremins, then Kevin Joyce, Mike Dunleavy and Brian Winters. Those last three were on the team in 1973, the last one from South Carolina to win in the N. C. A. A. tournament. Before this one. This team followed its upset of Duke with a complete thrashing of   Baylor,   and now goes zooming into the round of 8 to face Florida, propelled by a victory that McGuire, who died in 1994, would unquestionably have adored. “It all starts with our mindset,” Martin said. “We have got guys that are completely bought into what we do. ” Baylor, a team whose individual talent can leave N. B. A. scouts drooling, one that rose to No. 1 in the nation earlier this season, learned the hard way on Friday. South Carolina’s defense has made many teams look bad this season, including, in certain moments, Duke. But for nearly eight minutes in the first half, there was a point when Baylor’s offense seemed actually to be deserving of some pity. After taking a lead,   with 9 minutes 58 seconds left in the half, the Bears stopped scoring. Minutes ticked by. Misses piled up. The momentum turned into a landslide. It was as dry a spell as any in Madison Square Garden this season  —   and that is saying something in the home of the woeful Knicks. The Gamecocks capitalized on the Bears’ incompetence  —   they missed 11 straight shots  —   by scoring 18 unanswered points. A   by Jake Lindsey ended the drought, 7:37 after it began. Trailing by   at halftime, Baylor slumped off to its locker room looking shellshocked. “When you miss the first couple,” Baylor Coach Scott Drew said, “instead of the basket getting bigger, it gets smaller. ” South Carolina’s defense only seemed to intensify in the second half, as did its effect on the Bears. Baylor’s players dropped easy passes, dribbled off their own feet, and stepped mindlessly out of the bounds. “I felt like we were in their heads the whole game,” said Sindarius Thornwell, the Gamecocks’ senior forward. South Carolina’s players said Thursday that it was easy to pinpoint from where their defensive prowess stems. It is from Martin, who calls the defense his “baby” and designed it in his image, an image he projects as he prowls the sidelines with a glare that could melt ice. When asked how this team had managed to beat two of its last three opponents by 20 points each, sophomore guard P. J. Dozier had the answer immediately. “Defense,” he said. “That’s what we hang our hats on. That’s what this coaching staff instilled in us. ” Against a team with more size, with long arms and lean torsos, the Gamecocks crashed the defensive glass, limiting Baylor’s putback opportunities. The senior guard Justin McKie called it “gang rebounding,” and it worked: South Carolina outrebounded Baylor,   and held the Bears to only 13   points. “We knew when the shot went up, we all had to find a body and put our body on somebody,” Thornwell said. “We had to limit their second chances. ” A   run by the Bears midway through the second half pulled Baylor within 11. But a   by Thornwell calmed things. Within a few minutes, the Gamecocks were back ahead by 20. Now only 40 minutes stand between them and the Final Four.