The mother of the    girl who endured a vicious sex assault at the hands of Iraqi and Sudanese refugees in June said she feels her family is being treated like “criminals” by local authorities and the media. [One June 2, she was outside with her daughter when she left for two or three minutes to take a quick bathroom break  —   and that’s all the time it took for the three perpetrators to grab the little girl, before dragging her into a nearby laundry room, stripping her naked, urinating on her clothes and in her mouth, and filming the attack until stopped by an elderly resident.  But no one will allow her to read the police report or her own daughter’s medical records, she said. “As victims it just makes us feel like they’re treating us like we’re the criminals. I called the victim’s advocate a few times to get the records and she said, ‘I told you several times now you can’t have nothing.’ And she’s like ‘why do you want this stuff?’ And I tell her because it’s my daughter and I want to know and I have a right to it under our Constitution,” she told World Net Daily. This despite what her daughter endured was almost certainly a rape at the hands of the youngest attacker, the    Iraqi living next door whose Muslim family has ignored eviction notices and allows their son to roam free in the neighborhood. Idaho attorney Mark Guerry explained to World Net Daily that what the film showed the Iraqi doing to his victim qualifies as felony rape, but authorities are working   to hush up the attack. Guerry said: She’s incapable of consenting, she may very well have been threatened with force or violence. I think even with what little we know there’s a case here to be made for felony rape. But, part of what’s going on, in my opinion, is the state is trying to keep this thing well under the radar so they can make a decision about how to handle this without having to face the public, and be able to dispose of it as fast as they can without it reflecting badly on them. Nobody wants the scandal of protest over someone being injured by a Muslim immigrant. An Obama administration official threatened local residents discussing the rape and Third World refugee resettlement with federal prosecution for discussing the case not once, but twice. The victim starts counseling next week, the mother said. “She’s still traumatized really bad  …     When she sees boys, she’ll tell me ‘those are bad boys, those are all bad boys. ’”