Milo Tosser is a satirical video game that allows you to score points by throwing Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos off a rooftop. The game is intended to mock the Islamic State’s barbaric attitudes towards gay people. Google finds this objectionable. [Despite a personal endorsement from Yiannopoulos himself, the tech company has decided to remove the game from its online store on grounds of “hate speech. ”  Best game of 2016 https:  .   —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) April 14, 2016,  In an email to the game’s lead designer, Michael Garber, Google stated that the game was being removed because it depicts “violence against a person based on their sexual orientation. ” Despite assurances from Garber that the game had Yiannopoulos’ consent and was intended to mock ISIS rather than glorify homophobia, Google refused to budge. Even with @Nero’s consent mocking a bad idea inspired by religion is #hatespeech #gamedev #indiedev #freeMiloTosser pic. twitter.   —   Michael Garber (@riffraffgames) April 29, 2016,  The game’s focus  —   mockery of extremist Islam  —   is also highlighted in its trailer, which can be watched below.  “I stressed that this game does not advocate hatred or violence towards gays and that this game is in fact mocking that this is still happening in the name of Islam,” Garber told Breitbart Tech,  Pressed for a reason, Google informed Garber that the game had been removed due to the keywords he used to promote it. They didn’t like my keywords.  @nero #gamedev #indiedev #freeMiloTosser pic. twitter.   —   Michael Garber (@riffraffgames) May 2, 2016,  Garber then suggested that he might remove the keywords from the game’s description, after which Google said they would “not comment further. ” Well, at least I didn’t have to wait too long.  @Nero pic. twitter.   —   Michael Garber (@riffraffgames) May 2, 2016,  Garber says he is “done” trying to get the game on Google’s store. Instead, he intends to continue to finesse and update the game while pursuing other distribution options. “I am going to continue to finish  improve the game,” says Garber.  “Every day new things get added.  This is so much fun. ” You can download Milo Tosser for free from Garber’s personal website. You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook, and download Milo Alert! for Android to be kept up to date on his latest articles.