Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas and Coahuila to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities.  The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “J. A. Espinoza” from Matamoros.  MATAMOROS, Tamaulipas  —   While the Mexican government remains quiet about a clandestine gravesite discovered just south of the border with Texas, a former   who recently deserted the Gulf Cartel spoke out about the horrors that took place in that area.  This week Mexican authorities kicked off a large operation at a rural community between this border city and the region known as Playa Azul or Blue Beach, Breitbart Texas reported.  Despite the large scale search and recovery operation, the Tamaulipas government has not released any public information about the case.  Mexico’s El Manana spoke with a Tamaulipas government official who stated that the operation was started by the Mexican army therefore the state could not provide information. As a result of the operation, authorities had found various drums and fuel containers as well as some ashes and bone fragments.  The information published by the Mexican newspaper matches a series of statements made  to Breitbart Texas by a former member of the Gulf Cartel who   has recently left the criminal organization and claims that the area where authorities found the clandestine gravesite has been in use since 2011. In addition to using that area as a mass gravesite, the region was used as a headquarter of sorts for new recruits for the Gulf Cartel where they were tested by having them cook or incinerate human remains in large drums.  The area known as the Bartinola and other rural areas nearby had been in use by the Gulf Cartel as an area to dispose of bodies for the past five years, the former cartel member said.  The area was used by a cartel commander known as El Fili or Tuerto ( ) where he and his associates would dismember rival cartel members as well as kidnapping victims.  “For years they had been following execution orders from Comandante Fili,” the former cartel member said in Spanish. “They (victims) were cooked and the remains spread out by the damn lagoon by cartel members. ”  According to the former cartel member who claims to have witnessed some of the incinerations, the areas where the remains were spread out include “la brecha del infierno (hell’s dirt road which runs from Bartolina to the Rio Grande) the banks of the Rio Grande, behind an area known as Las Palapas. The man claimed that the purpose of spreading out the ashes was to erase all traces as to not bring attention from the military.  Tamaulipas law enforcement officials spoke with Breitbart Texas under condition of anonymity and confirmed that they have dug in 14 different places within the cordoned off area. The dig zones remain active zones, however officials would not confirm if bodies that have been found.  Officially, the Tamaulipas government has neither confirmed nor denied the find of the  . The former cartel member who spoke out claims that what authorities will end up finding will be several burned out   drums that were used for “cooking” victims. Initially the  clandestine gravesite has striking resemblance to the 2011 San Fernando Massacre. In that case, authorities found more than 190 bodies that had been buried in shallow narco graves just 50 miles south from the Texas border by members of the Los Zetas cartel. However the scene at La Bartolina has more similarities to the mass extermination carried out by Los Zetas in the border state of Coahuila where they used   drums and clandestine crematoriums to incinerate hundreds of innocent victims. 