Glenn Beck predicted on his radio show Wednesday that the addition of Breitbart Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon to Republican nominee Donald Trump’s campaign would lead to “an absolute bloodbath. ”[Beck described Bannon, who took a leave of absence from Breitbart News to lead Trump’s campaign, as a “dangerous hatchet man” and “possibly the most dangerous guy in all of American politics. ”   The Blaze founder regularly touts his   skills as a prognosticator, urging his listeners to heed his often dire predictions. His latest augury is no different. “Look at the people that [Trump] has surrounded himself with,” Beck said. “Roger Stone  —   Nixon hatchet man. Roger Ailes  —   Nixon, and quite frankly a very effective, hatchet man  …     Stephen Bannon  —   absolute dangerous hatchet man. Donald Trump  —   hatchet man. People in the campaign now are saying Donald Trump is going to be free to run it his way. ” “You are going see things in the next 82 days that will make you go, ‘You gotta be kidding me,’” Beck warned. “I think it’s going to be a bloodbath. What is coming will be an absolute bloodbath because these guys do not take prisoners. If you are not with them, they will destroy you, and if you deviate from their path at all, they will destroy you. ” Beck urged Republicans to abandon Trump over the decision to bring Bannon onboard his campaign. “There is a hall pass for the next 48 hours for all Republicans,” he said. “Anybody who was on the bandwagon, Donald Trump has just given you the greatest gift and a warning: It’s going to get ugly and now is the time to jump ship. Now is the time to separate yourself and if you don’t, you are going to regret it. ” Far from being a “bloodbath,” in the 48 hours since Bannon became the CEO of Trump’s campaign, the candidate has pivoted to deliver a speech in Charlotte, North Carolina, on Thursday night, humbly acknowledging his regret over saying things that offended people. “Sometimes, in the heat of debate and speaking on a multitude of issues, you don’t choose the right words or you say the wrong thing. I have done that, and I regret it, particularly where it may have caused personal pain,” Trump said in Charlotte. “Too much is at stake for us to be consumed with these issues. But one thing I can promise you is this: I will always tell you the truth. ” On Friday, Trump travelled to Louisiana to tour the flood zone, pass out supplies to the victims of the disaster, and comfort the Louisianans who lost everything. The Associated Press reported, “Area residents cheered Trump’s visit, lining up along streets to get a glimpse and thanking him for shining a national spotlight on the destruction. ” The AP report continued: Donald Trump is showing his softer side as he consoles Louisiana homeowners hit by devastating flooding. The Republican candidate’s tour of the damage included a stop at the home of Jimmy and Olive Morgan in Denham Springs, Louisiana. As Trump and his entourage visited, the couple was still sweeping out floodwaters from their home. A ruined couch, chair and bedroom furniture are heaped on their lawn. Jimmy Morgan told Trump he spent his 79th birthday on the roof of his house. Asked by Trump about whether he’ll rebuild, Jimmy Morgan replied: “I just don’t know what we’ll do. ” Trump hugged the man and later told him: “You’re going to rebuild. It’s going to be so beautiful. ” Though Beck’s latest prediction has fallen flat, the enmity that prompted it seems deeply rooted. This isn’t the first time Beck has lashed out at Bannon, who hosted Breitbart News Daily in the  :00 a. m. time slot preceding Beck’s radio show on SiriusXM’s Patriot Channel 125. Last February, after Beck’s endorsed candidate Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) lost the Nevada primary to Trump, Beck launched into an angry rant on his radio show calling Trump supporters “Brownshirts” and comparing Bannon, a former Surface Warfare Officer in the U. S. Navy, to Nazi propagandist Joseph Goebbels. But Beck’s animus towards Bannon took an extreme turn earlier in his Wednesday broadcast when he suggested that Bannon dabbles in the “Dark Web” for possible illegal activities, up to and including hiring assassins. As Breitbart’s Ezra Dulis noted, Beck’s fallacious allegation was likely in reference to a Bloomberg profile of Bannon that described the research project conducted by the Government Accountability Institute (GAI) into the Clinton Foundation foreign donations scandal  —   research which became the basis for Peter Schweizer’s New York Times bestselling book Clinton Cash. Follow Rebecca Mansour on Twitter @RAMansour