Kentucky Republican Sen. Rand Paul tells Breitbart News Hillary Clinton is not in good health and she has not been forthright about her health challenges. [Paul, who has continued as a practicing eye surgeon since his 2010 election to the Senate, says it’s impossible to reach a conclusion about someone’s health without an actual examination.  “I think she has some significant health problems —  I don’t know what they are,” he said. “Her losing consciousness, there, which by all appearances she did lose consciousness, is not something commonly associated with pneumonia,” the surgeon said. The former first lady had a heat stress incident while attending the Sept. 11 Ground Zero ceremony in New York City. After the incident, the Clinton left the ceremony abruptly, which her campaign ascribed to part of her struggle with a bout of pneumonia. Videos of the Democratic nominee for president appear to show her collapsing and being hauled into a black van. Paul said he was confused by how Clinton‘s doctor explained her pneumonia. “The diagnosis as a something being a   infection is kind of a strange way to describe a pneumonia as well,” he said. “Her heath is an issue,” he said. “Particularly the fact that she has not been very forthcoming with it. ” After a poor showing in the Iowa caucuses, the senator closed down his presidential campaign and focused his efforts on securing a second term in the Senate. According to the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics, Paul’s seat is scored as a safe Republican seat. The senator says he’s happily surprised how well GOP nominee for president Donald Trump is doing with two months left in the presidential campaign. “In Kentucky, Trump is doing very well and he has narrowed the gap a lot in the battleground states,” he said. Paul, who is a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,  said if the New York City developer has a good first debate, he can win the election. “My advice —  although it has not been requested —  is to make the point that she is not fit to be    because she pulled the security out of Benghazi,” he said, Trump should also make the point that Clinton has been wrong on Iraq, Libya and Syria, which proves she lacks the wisdom and judgement to be president, he said.