Sports page social justice warriors who cheered ESPN pressing mute on Curt Schilling now express outrage that the 2001 World Series   repeated his views criticizing males using the ladies’ room on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM 125 the Patriot Channel with host Stephen K. Bannon. [“Schilling did an interview with Stephen K. Brannon of the Breitbart News Daily airing on SiriusXM two days after having his contract terminated by ESPN and he’s still making ignorant comments,” complained Jason Fletcher at SportsRant. After quoting the pitcher’s denials that he harbors hatred toward anyone, Fletcher expressed his contempt for Schilling: “Although he may not believe that he’s a transphobic, Schilling’s comments and opinions are extremely transphobic and the fact that he doesn’t realize that shows how ignorant he truly is. ”  ESPN fired Schilling earlier this week after the 3, 000 strikeout club member ridiculed on social media the idea of males who impersonate women using the ladies’ room. His detractors regard opposition to their views on the issue as proof of bigotry. “Curt Schilling was not fired for his faith or for his   beliefs,” Awful Announcing announced in an article on the Breitbart News Daily interview, “he was fired in the wake of a specific, public attack on trans people (which happens to include some of his coworkers) and perhaps even more importantly, he was fired for repeatedly challenging ESPN’s rules and hierarchy, and for doing things that hurt their reputation (and thus, their bottom line). Moreover, firing Schilling is not violating ESPN’s political neutrality keeping him and letting him continually make political rants and repost offensive memes (and be referred to as ‘ESPN analyst Curt Schilling’ each time) would be much more of a violation. ” The site repeatedly criticized Schilling’s conservative views and ginned up a campaign for the network fire him last year. When Schilling wrote a letter of complaint to an Awful Announcing writer that concluded, “I did not write this letter for public consumption, I wanted to do this direct, to you, and have this remain between us,” the site published it and ESPN extended his initial suspension over comparing Muslim extremists to Nazis for the rest of the 2015 season. A Yahoo Sports article on the Breitbart News Daily interview concluded by issuing a warning to any potential employees thinking about offering Schilling shillings. “Sure, there might be an entity out there that considers hiring him,” Kyle Ringo concedes, “but anyone who does so, whether it is for an analyst job or not, has to consider what sort of controversy he might get himself involved in next. ”