Ivey Slaughter jumped into the passing lane on Oregon State’s first possession of the second half on Saturday and stole the ball, and then she drove the length of the floor in one of those timely moments that have defined her senior season at Florida State. That   steal was a big reason the   Seminoles were able to rally from a   deficit to advance to the Stockton Region final in California, beating   Oregon State,   to set up a    rematch with   South Carolina. The Gamecocks won that 2015 tournament meeting by 6 points. Slaughter recorded a   nine steals and added 11 points and 8 rebounds. “She really changed a lot of things,” said Leticia Romero, who led the Seminoles with 18 points. Oregon State ( ) failed in its bid to return to the Final Four. Sydney Wiese, the Beavers’ leading scorer this season, finished with just 9 points, shooting 3 of 14, and missed all 10 of her   tries in her final game. Shakayla Thomas, the Atlantic Coast Conference player of the year, recorded her third straight   for the Seminoles ( ) with 12 points and 11 rebounds. The Seminoles trailed by 17 points late in the first quarter and by 10 midway through the second, but Florida State Coach Sue Semrau had a quick reminder for her team. “If we could convince them how good we are defensively, things could change,” she said. She added, “I was stunned that we were missing the shots that we were missing. ” The Seminoles stormed back with a big run, closing the gap to   by the break and opening the third quarter with a   burst to take a   lead. Oregon State tied the score at   with 6 minutes 55 seconds to play as Gabriella Hanson’s free throws capped a   run. But Florida State responded. Wiese struggled to get clean looks and never got comfortable with her shot. The Beavers were 2 for 17 from   range and shot 36. 4 percent over all after a talented senior class led the team to the past three   Conference   titles. Kolbie Orum was the Beavers’ lone player to score in double figures, with 12 points. S. CAROLINA 100, QUINNIPIAC 58 Kaela Davis, A’ja Wilson and   South Carolina ( ) overpowered Quinnipiac ( ) the No. 12 seed, from the opening tip, scoring the first 16 points and advancing to the Stockton Region final in a rout. Davis scored 28 points, with five  . Wilson added 24 points, and the Gamecocks’ athleticism and swarming defense were too much for the Bobcats. Quinnipiac started 0 for 10 from the field and took more than seven minutes to score as it struggled to get off shots and to establish its usually prolific perimeter game. OREGON 77, MARYLAND 63 The freshman Sabrina Ionescu led five Oregon players in double figures with 21 points, and the   Ducks ( ) continued their run through the N. C. A. A. tournament by upsetting   Maryland ( ). The freshman Ruthy Hebard added 16 points for Oregon, which advanced to a regional final for the first time. The Ducks will play   Connecticut on Monday in Bridgeport, Conn. Brionna Jones and Shatori   each had 16 points for the Terrapins. The Maryland offense, whose average of more than 90 points a game led the nation, was held to its lowest point total this season. Oregon Coach Kelly Graves said before the game that his young team, which starts three freshmen, might not know it is not supposed to be winning. The Ducks became the second No. 10 seed to advance to a regional final, after the 1991 team from Lamar University of Texas.