Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said she is not worried about the FBI investigation of her handling of classified information because of her use of a private email sever during her tenure as secretary of state.  She encouraged the press to “go and ask others for their emails. ” “Ask everybody else who’s in public office,” she said. “I’m the one who’s done it. ” Partial transcript as follows: TODD: And the Milwaukee sentinel had a tough editorial against you this week. It said this of your candidacy, her horrible track record on transparency raises serious questions for open government under a Clinton administration, so serious we believe they may disqualify her from public office regardless of Clinton’s excuses the only believable reason for private server in her basement was to keep   out of the public eye by willfully avoiding freedom of information laws. We encourage voters to think long and hard about the record when choosing the next president. The issue of secrecy or the record that you’re secret has followed you for some time. Is there any way you can at least convince Wisconsin voters that that’s not the case? CLINTON: Well, it’s just a wrong set of assertions and conclusions. And as you may know I’ve received the vast majority of newspaper endorsements. They all have the same information. They have all analyzed it. A lot of them have conducted interviews. So let me just say again, I sent   to government employees on their government accounts. I had every reason to believe that they were in the government system. It was a matter of convenience. I’ve said repeatedly it was not the best choice. It was a mistake. But I think that anybody who’s actually looked at this has concluded that I have now put out all of my  . Go and ask others for their  . Ask everybody else who’s in public office. I’m the one who’s done it. And I did it because I thought it was the right thing to do. TODD: Has the FBI reached out to you yet for an interview? CLINTON: No. No, they haven’t. But back in August we made clear that I’m happy to answer any questions that anybody might have. And I standby that. TODD: Are you concerned this isn’t going to wrap up before the convention? CLINTON: No, I’m not. Because I don’t think anything inappropriate was done. And so I have to let them decide how to resolve their security inquiry, but I am not at all worried about it. Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN