Donald Trump is calling for Hillary Clinton to shut down the controversial Clinton Foundation. [“Hillary Clinton is the defender of the corrupt and rigged status quo. The Clintons have spent decades as insiders lining their own pockets and taking care of donors instead of the American people,” Trump says in a press release.  He continued, “It is now clear that the Clinton Foundation is the most corrupt enterprise in political history. What they were doing during Crooked Hillary’s time as Secretary of State was wrong then, and it is wrong now. It must be shut down immediately. ” Trump’s statement comes after the editorial boards at the Boston Globe and the New York Post called for the foundation to be shut down in the wake of the IRS investigation into the Clinton Foundation and the newly released emails that present a conflict of interest and ethical problems between the Clinton Foundation and Hillary Clinton’s state department. Even the Huffington Post, which has strongly opposed Trump’s presidential campaign, posted a large headline reading, “Just Shut It Down. ” The Republican nominee joined Fox News’ Fox and Friends on Monday saying the Clintons should return the foreign donations that were made to the Clinton Foundation from “countries that influence her totally and also countries that discriminate against women and gays. ” “They should not take that money,” he stressed, urging them to return it, alleging that “it’s pay for play. ” Trump in the past had donated to the Clinton Foundation, explaining recently he did so because he was a businessman. “I did give to the Clinton Foundation. What I didn’t know is they’d be using it for private aircraft and things like that,” Trump told Fox News’ Chris Wallace. “The Clinton Foundation was helping with Haiti and with lots of other things and I thought it was going to do some good work. So, it didn’t make any difference to me. ” “Again, I was a businessman and it was my obligation to get along with everybody, including the Clintons, including Democrats and liberals and Republicans and conservatives,” he added.