Wednesday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” former Mexican President Vicente Fox said Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump was an “ugly American” who didn’t know the Great Wall of China failed.  On Trump’s border wall proposal, Fox said, “Oh, please, give me a break. I mean, it’s a crazy, wild, stupid idea. We’ve been building a partnership between Mexico and the United States. We exchange so much in trade, close to a trillion U. S. dollars. We exchange —  one million people go back and forth the border. Many Americans come to Mexico. many, many Mexicans come to invest, to trade with the United States. ” He continued, “Yes, it is meaningless and it’s meaningless to build the wall, like he said, the greatness of the Chinese wall. This ignorant doesn’t even know that the Chinese wall failed, thoroughly failed. The Mongols, the Manchus, came in and conquered China. The same thing happened with the Berlin Wall. This is a stupid idea, so please wake up, America. Look at the proposals of a false prophet. I don’t know what he has against Mexico, but we Mexicans love and like the United States. We love keep this strong partnership that we have. ” He added, “I’m surprised that this nation is now going back to the old days of the gringo feo, the ugly American, but going back to populism. This nation is great already. This nation is great because of the work of these millions and millions of workers yes, some manufacturing jobs were lost. Thirty percent in the last ten years, but what he is not telling the truth is that 95% growth in the new economy, in the new jobs, the quality jobs, which is what U. S. Americans have here, so it’s wrong on every position. It is wrong on going to a trade war with China, with Mexico. He doesn’t understand that U. S.  economy has a deficit with every single economy in the world and he’s not going to war with everybody. We are frightened outside. I work with 95 former heads of states. We are now in one solid front against this man. This is not the voice of United States. This is not the voice of a compassionate leadership. This is not the voice of a brilliant leader which would be world leader, not only president of the United States. ” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN