MANHATTAN, New York City  —   Pro Donald Trump counter protesters took to the streets to assert that   activists congregating in Columbus Circle in New York City today were “Soros funded” with one man, a black local with his children, insisting that the Republican front runner had his backing for raising the issue of Mexicans taking employment away from black locals. [The man, who stood across from hundreds of   demonstrators outside the Trump Tower on 5th Avenue this afternoon, told Breitbart News that “Come to Harlem. There’s so much building going on right now in Harlem. Buildings are going up right now while we’re talking. And I’ve got it documented, on every construction site in Harlem, you don’t see [any] blacks working”.  This man refused to be spoken for by Al Sharpton at the #CrushTrump rally in NYC pic. twitter.   —   Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) March 19, 2016,  He, with his two young daughters, suffered a spate of verbal abuse from   “Black Lives Matter” affiliated, and “ ” protesters. They accused him of being paid by Donald Trump, but in the face of aggression, he wished people well with their day. “I’m in the reality business,” he said, adding: “It ain’t that we don’t wanna work, it’s that we can’t work because the Mexicans have taken all the jobs”. His comments, while rough around the edges, are in fact backed by recent evidence cited by the Bank of England, which not only revealed that open border migration does indeed lead to jobs going to workers who undercut wages, but also that the policy leads to wage suppression in general. “I think it’s stupid,” he said of today’s protest, which attracted around 500 people to Manhattan for the “Crush Trump” rally. “You just march down here to Trump Tower? You just came from another Trump establishment. He could be up there right now, looking up there, laughing. At the end of the day, you don’t know him. He don’t know you. “[People] roll up in rage by watching the news saying that he said this, and he said that. But you never heard him say it. You heard soundbytes, but you don’t know what came   the soundbytes. And that’s how media works, and how America works”. And then he turned his guns on the   representatives of black Americans. “If Al Sharpton opens his mouth black people don’t do [anything]. He claimed that people like Jesse Jackson could not speak anymore because of a baby of his being born out of wedlock  —   calling into question his ability to speak with moral purpose. “Al Sharpton  …     everybody runs to him like he speaks for black America  —   no he don’t. He endorsed, Bernie or Hillary? He brought them both to Harlem. I was confused  …     One thing I know for sure  …     Trump for President. ” The man’s approach to Mr. Trump differed drastically from another black father Breitbart News saw at the march, who was telling his frightened children that they were “going to fight” men with “Veterans for Trump” signs, calling the   activists, “KKK”: Dad tells kids: ”look at [Veterans for Trump] in the eye  …     we’re gonna be fighting against them  …     KKK” #CrushTrump pic. twitter.   —   Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) March 19, 2016,  The video above, posted to Twitter, has caused outrage from Trump supporters and ordinary Americans, some of whom have pointed out that the father is “inciting fear in his own kid[s]”.