Democratic Nominee Hillary Clinton has remained silent after a second night of riots in Charlotte, North Carolina caused major damage in the city. [Protesters angry about the killing of a black man, Keith Lamont Scott, by an   police officer terrorized the streets Wednesday night, beating citizens, looting, vandalizing, blocking interstate traffic and setting fires.  But Clinton’s campaign has been silent, as she remains at her home in Chappaqua, New York preparing for her first debate with Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. Trump was the first candidate to weigh in, voicing his reaction in an interview on Fox and Friends Thursday morning calling for law and order, leadership, and unity. But Clinton’s campaign appears focused on spreading existing media to the press, with no new statement from the Democratic presidential nominee. A taped interview of Clinton’s appearance on the comedy web series Between Two Ferns was released on Thursday and the campaign hosted a press conference call with former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to question Trump’s ties to Russia. The campaign also released her weekly podcast, with her daughter Chelsea Clinton as a featured guest. The Democratic nominee didn’t even address the riots on Twitter or social media on Thursday. Clinton criticized the shooting during a rally on Wednesday, calling it an “unbearable” situation that “needs to become intolerable” but did not mention the rioting. Earlier in the week, Clinton vowed to Steve Harvey that she would be able to speak “directly to white people” to help stop racial police shootings. “We’ve got to do everything possible to improve policing, to go right at implicit bias,” she said. Clinton has made her campaign against police shootings and “systemic racism” a focal point in her campaign, particularly in urban communities. “I’m going to be talking to white people, we’re the ones who have to start listening to the legitimate cries coming from our   fellow citizens,” Clinton told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer in July. 