Barry University, a private, Catholic university in Miami, Florida, has banned its student golf team  —   one of the best in the country  —   from all golf courses owned by Donald Trump due to the presidential candidate’s “campaign rhetoric. ”[A member of Barry University’s administration told Campus Reform that Trump’s positions were “antithetical to the university’s core commitments of Inclusive Community   Social Justice” and that in order to ensure the institution remains true to its values, it would have to sever all business ties with the GOP frontrunner:  As a practice, Barry University does not engage in business relationships where senior leadership of a company takes a public position, or the company’s guiding principles are, antithetical to the university’s core commitments of Inclusive Community   Social Justice. This practice, which has been in place for some time, is not political, as we do not take positions relative to candidates. We seek only to ensure fulfillment of our values through our institutional business related ventures and expenditures. According to Campus Reform, this stance presents a significant problem for the university’s men’s golf team, which previously enjoyed    practice sessions at the Trump Doral golf course in Miami. Student golfer Alberto Bianco told the news site that Trump’s course was “one of the nicest in Florida. ” I can tell you that this decision has affected us quite a bit because Doral is one of the nicest courses in Florida, with outstanding practice facilities and the golf courses in the resort are really hard and challenging. They would be ideal for our golf team to practice on because they will provide us with tough playing conditions which we don’t find a lot of where we play now. Barry’s golf team has won three national championships in the past decade alone. But for the administration, the university’s commitment to “Social Justice”  —   and Donald Trump’s apparently dire threat to it  —   must take priority. You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook, and download Milo Alert! for Android to be kept up to date on his latest articles.