The terrorist attack in Orlando that ended 49 lives is another reminder of the threat we face from Radical Islam.  There is a deadly element of Islam spreading like a cancer throughout our country and we must unite to confront it.  [Democrats’ bludgeoning of Americans with political correctness has weakened our resolve.   Their hesitation to confront Radical Islam, or even utter the term, has emboldened the jihadists  —   and not for the first time.  During Bill Clinton’s presidency, Islamic terrorists perpetrated the following attacks against America:  1) 1993 World Trade Center bombing 2) 1996 Khobar Towers 3) 1998 Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania 4) 2000 bombing of the USS Cole.  Each attack was followed with little to no response.  The terrorists felt victorious.  They felt invincible.  And even worse, they did not fear us.  This of course culminated in the   attacks.  Ironically, the day before   President Clinton told an audience that he “could have killed” September 11th mastermind Osama Bin Laden in 1998. The next day, 2, 977 Americans were killed by Bin Laden’s   terrorist group.  Under the Obama presidency we have endured attacks on Ft. Hood, Benghazi, Boston, Chattanooga, San Bernardino, and now Orlando.   In 2009, President Obama referred to the massacre at Ft. Hood that killed 13 Americans as “workplace violence”. Benghazi was blamed on a “YouTube” video.  At every turn, President Obama and Hillary Clinton have been soft on terror and refused to utter the words “Radical Islam” as the jihadist death march against America continues.  President Obama even naively referred to the Islamic State as a “JV team”.  Incredibly, he and Hillary Clinton are now calling for increasing Syrian refugees to America despite known ISIS pledges to exploit the program and universal agreement that we cannot vet these individuals  —   how delusional.      President Obama and Hillary Clinton have irresponsibly exploited terror attacks to further the agenda of Democrats by calling for things such as gun control.  Maybe Secretary Clinton has never heard of suicide bombers.  Perhaps she forgets that nearly 3, 000 Americans were murdered on   without a single shot being fired.  We cannot afford another terror denier as commander in chief.  History repeats itself.  Their political correctness and willful blindness leaves them talking in circles and Americans dead.  In typical fashion, Hillary delivered a speech on Monday blaming the Orlando terror attack on gun control.  There were some words about combating terrorism, but if Hillary is going to have credibility, the Clinton Foundation should stop accepting blood money from countries that export terror, oppress women and persecute gays.  Donald Trump has promised to use every tool at our disposal to go after Radical Islam.  He speaks to Americans with unequivocal clarity at a time when clarity is required.  Americans know that Mr. Trump is right when he says we must “now get very tough, very smart and very vigilant. ”  His plan to temporarily suspend immigration from areas with a “proven history of terrorism” could not be any more common sense.  I filed a bill to temporarily suspend the refugee resettlement program last December for the same reason. President Obama will say that rhetoric from some on the right is dangerous, but what’s more dangerous is sitting idle as Islamic Extremists slaughter innocent Americans.  America cannot afford another four years of willful blindness in the fight against Radical Islam.  President Obama and Hillary Clinton continue to endanger American lives with their politically correct assault on our common sense.  We need a decisive leader who will act in the best interests of this country to keep Americans safe.  We need Donald Trump.