The New Hampshire exit polls shows that   of GOP primary voters in New Hampshire back Donald Trump’s repeated calls for a temporary pause to Islamic immigration until the federal government can suppress imported jihad. [NEW:   of New Hampshire GOP voters favor temporarily banning Muslims who are not US citizens from entry, per preliminary exit poll results,  —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) February 9, 2016,   That’s very different from ABC’s reaction in December, when Trump called for the immigration pause. Opposition to Trump’s Muslim ban could be the unifying moment the GOP needs to stop his momentum.  —  @rickklein https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) December 9, 2015,  Trump called for curbs on the entry of believers in Islamic ideology from the United States, just after the San Bernardino jihad attacks, in which one immigrant Muslim and one   Muslim murdered 14 Americans. “Without looking at the various polling data, it is obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension,” Trump said in a statement titled “Donald J. Trump Statement on Preventing Muslim Immigration. ” Where this hatred comes from and why we will have to determine. Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in Jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life. The increased public skepticism towards Islamic migration follows 14 years of jihadi attacks, starting with the   atrocity by 19 Muslims who killed 3, 000 Americans. Since then, the Islamic population in the United States has risen sharply, and so have the number of converts and jihad plots. Staff working for Sen. Jeff Sesions, the chairman of the Senate’s immigration panel, are keeping track of the many Islamic jihad arrests. From January 2014 to January 2016, for example, 113 people  —   including many migrants  —   have been arrested for   attacks or plans. In contrast, President Barack Obama insists that Islam is a religion of peace.  