Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz tells Breitbart News he has no knowledge of Bill Clinton engaging in illicit activities with underage girls procured by billionaire and convicted pedophile Jeffrey Epstein. [Dershowitz was Epstein’s defense lawyer during the   financier’s criminal case, in which Epstein ultimately signed a plea bargain in 2008 pleading guilty to one charge of soliciting an underage girl for prostitution. Epstein was sentenced to 18 months in prison  —   and served 13   the crime and is currently a registered sex offender.  Dershowitz finds himself personally ensnared in the sordid sex scandal, after one of Epstein’s alleged victims, Virginia Roberts Giuffre, claimed in legal documents filed in a civil case that she had sex with Dershowitz when she was a minor at the behest of Epstein. Dershowitz has steadfastly denied the accusations, including that he ever took part in or was present at sex parties held at Epstein’s private Caribbean compound, later dubbed “orgy island” by the news media.  He also denies any wrongdoing on the billionaire’s private airplane. Flight records obtained by Gawker placed Dershowitz on Epstein’s private jet a number of times, including in 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2005. The flight records also found Clinton took at least 11 trips on Epstein’s private passenger jet  —   including with socialite Ghislaine Maxwell, who was accused of recruiting and grooming young girls for Epstein’s sex ring. Also listed in flight records with Clinton is Epstein’s former assistant, Sarah Kellen. Public flight records do not show Dershowitz and Clinton were on the jet at the same time. Speaking to Breitbart News, Dershowitz denied having inappropriate contact with underage girls in any location. He said of the airplane trips: “The manifests show I was never on Epstein’s plane with Virginia Roberts or any underage person. I was never on Epstein’s plane during the three years that Roberts knew Epstein. I never participated in or saw any inappropriate behavior. ” “I was only on the island once with my wife and daughter, and another Harvard professor and his family,” he added. The famed lawyer was asked about his knowledge of Epstein’s association with Clinton. Dershowitz stated, “As far as I know, Clinton was never on the island. ” Dershowitz replied “no” when asked whether he has knowledge of Clinton engaging in sexual activities with Epstein’s underage girls at any location. Regarding the flight records Gawker obtained, the news website reported: Clinton shared Epstein’s plane with Kellen and Maxwell on at least 11 flights in 2002 and 2003 —  before any of the allegations against them became public —  according to the pilots’ logbooks, which have surfaced in civil litigation surrounding Epstein’s crimes. In January 2002, for instance, Clinton, his aide Doug Band, and Clinton’s Secret Service detail are listed on a flight from Japan to Hong Kong with Epstein, Maxwell, Kellen, and two women described only as “Janice” and “Jessica. ” One month later, records show, Clinton hopped a ride from Miami to Westchester on a flight that also included Epstein, Maxwell, Kellen, and a woman described only as “one female. ” The Daily Mail reported that Clinton rode in Epstein’s plane at least 11 times, “often with two of Epstein’s female associates believed to have provided the dozens of underage girls to their boss and his   friends. ” Roberts, listed as Jane Doe #3 in court filings, says that when she was 17 years old she was forced by Epstein to have repeated “sexual relations” with Britain’s Prince Andrew in London, New York, and the US Virgin Islands. Andrew and Buckingham Palace vehemently denied her allegations. Her affidavit came with a picture of Roberts with the prince’s arm around her waist and Maxwell, the alleged madam, looking on. Roberts, who claims she was one of scores of girls in Epstein’s ring, denied ever having relations with Clinton. She claimed in depositions that she had been   to “many other powerful men, including numerous prominent American politicians, powerful business executives, foreign presidents, a   prime minister, and other world leaders. ” Last January, Dershowitz appeared on the Today show to deny ever having inappropriate relations with Roberts, saying she was “making the whole thing up. ” “I was never in the presence of a single underage woman,” he said. “I never saw [Epstein] doing anything improper. I was not a witness. I was not a participant. And I will prove it. ” Even if Dershowitz succeeds in clearing his name, the   association may spell trouble for Hillary Clinton’s campaign. The Daily Mail reported in May —  and MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough predicted this past Friday —  that Epstein could become an issue for Hillary Clinton’s campaign: Epstein’s reemergence in public view  —   he was last photographed in February 2011  —   will cause new headaches for Hillary Clinton’s   presidential campaign, and give her critics another opening to tar and feather her with scandal. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ”  Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.