U2 frontman Bono berated Donald Trump at a Dreamforce benefit concert in San Francisco Wednesday night, blasting the Republican presidential candidate’s proposal to build a wall on the U. S.  border and shouting “You’re fired!” at the candidate’s onstage projection. [The Irish rock band was playing to a packed audience in the parking lot of the Cow Palace near San Francisco when Bono  —   a longtime Clinton Foundation benefactor  —   engaged in a    with a video of Trump projected on the massive screen behind him.  The   with Trump came during an interlude in the band’s song “Bullet the Blue Sky. ” “The question we have for you this evening: What is your vision for this great nation?” the    singer challenged Trump. “I will build a great, great wall on our southern border and I will have Mexico pay for that wall,” said Trump in video from one of his earliest campaign appearances. Bono scoffed at the proposal and fired back: “Now, candidate, you understand it’s not just Mexican people who are going to have a problem with this plan of yours. It’s everyone who loves the idea of America. Like the Irish, for example. Or the French. Or the Brazilians. Everyone who loves the idea of America. Everyone who believes what they read at the foot of the bottom of the Statue of Liberty. ” “Good people are not going to stay silent while you run off with the American dream!” a   Bono added. The band posted their own video of the     on its Facebook page late Wednesday: According to the San Francisco Chronicle, Wednesday’s “Dreamfest” concert was held to benefit the UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital, with tickets starting at $1, 000 and running all the way up to $1 million for sponsorship packages. The event was reportedly completely sold out. Bono has become an increasingly vocal critic of Trump as the election enters its final stretch. In a September interview on 60 Minutes, the rocker called the Republican candidate “the worst idea that ever happened to America,” and someone who could potentially “destroy” the country. The singer’s name has popped up during the election in other ways in August, emails released by Judicial Watch found that an aide to Bill Clinton petitioned the State Department to grant a request made by Bono for his upcoming world tour while Hillary Clinton served as Secretary of State.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum