Neil W. McCabe has joined Breitbart News Network as a new political reporter, Breitbart News Network announced on Monday. [“We’re excited to add Neil to our impressive team of journalists as we continue to offer best in class political coverage and come directly after the mainstream media,” Breitbart News Network CEO Larry Solov said in a statement.  “McCabe is the type of tough, no nonsense individual that makes Breitbart the ‘ ’ place for breaking news and analysis. Welcome to ‘The Fight Club,’” Steve Bannon, Executive Chairman for Breitbart News Network, said. McCabe will work in the growing political team alongside Breitbart’s top notch team of political correspondents in Washington, under Washington Political Editor Matthew Boyle. “Neil comes from a   original reporting background and has a penchant for chasing news stories that matter,” Boyle said. “We at Breitbart know that’s what moves the needle and that’s why we keep growing. ” McCabe was most recently the Washington, D. C. bureau chief for One America News Network. Before that, McCabe was a columnist for TownHall. com and was a senior reporter and editor of Guns and Patriots at the Human Events conservative newspaper. McCabe also served as political director of Gravis Marketing polling firm. He also served as a combat historian in Iraq for 15 months. McCabe has been at the forefront of lots of major news stories including  . Gabby Giffords’ husband Mark Kelly’s attempt to buy an   two weeks after testifying that the gun should be banned,   battles in the GOP conference in the U. S. House including the eventual demise of now former Speaker John Boehner, and the 2016 GOP presidential primary. He has interviewed Juanita Broaddrick, the Arkansas grandmother who accused Bill Clinton of allegedly raping her in Little Rock’s Camelot Hotel. And in his interview with Charles Woods, Benghazi hero Tyrone Woods’ father, Charles Woods challenged Hillary Clinton to a   test. “Andrew Breitbart was the great black swan of conservative media,” McCabe said. “I am thrilled to contribute to his legacy in any way I can. ”