Sen. Jeff Sessions ( ) will reportedly endorse Republican frontrunner Donald Trump in Alabama tonight two days before Super Tuesday. Breitbart News will be providing live updates of the rally below. Trump drew a crowd of at least 30, 000 the last time he visited Alabama.   8:00: Trump thanks Alabama: THANK YOU ALABAMA! 32, 000 supporters tonight. Get out  VOTE on Tuesday! WE WILL MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 29, 2016,  7:59: Kaus makes a good point: Sessions’ endorsement not just trophy —  also some guarantee Trump won’t sell out on immigration in the future. https:  .   —   Mickey Kaus (@kausmickey) February 28, 2016,  7:55: Texas resident —  the type of voter that GOP pundits and their “smart set” on Twitter treat with disdain —  more than knows who Sessions is and trusts the Alabama Senator on immigration: Getting @SenatorSessions to endorse Trump is like winning the @rosebowlgame. No greater fighter of amnesty than Jeff #AmnestyKiller,  —   Thomas Marchetti (@Ryanexpress77) February 29, 2016,  7:50: Red State Contributing Editor calls Sessions, who has stood up to the D. C. special interests and for American workers to fight comprehensive amnesty legislation and Obamatrade, an “unprincipled coward. ” Hi @jeffsessions. You’re an unprincipled coward.  —   Ben Howe (@BenHowe) February 28, 2016,  Palin was referring to people like this last year:   pundits thinking it’s clever to mock Americans’ opinions are finding the joke is on them. Cozy in their seat of judgment, blowing each other’s horns, protected by a glass screen. Ask yourself: just who ARE these windbags? And what do they build? Towers of paperclips? Lists of Twitter followers? Trump’s supporters are delightedly defying pithy prim “opinion makers” who think Americans are incapable of choosing our leaders without their dictates. The more the   smear Trump, the more popular he gets. A friend emailed, “Tell those smart alecks bashing Trump on TV, ‘I love him because YOU hate him! ’” The GOP establishment would do well to listen to these voters and quit dismissing them. Reagan understood these   salt of the earth Americans. That’s why they gave him two landslide victories. If you want to win again, GOP, you need these good people. 7:40: Flashback: This guy sure knows what’s going on in the nation: What do you suppose his name rec is outside Alabama and DC? 3 percent? https:  .   —   John Podhoretz (@jpodhoretz) February 28, 2016,    7:30: Laura Ingraham: So now I suppose @SenatorSessions is also not a ”real conservative”?  —   Laura Ingraham (@IngrahamAngle) February 28, 2016,  7:10: Mark “OZ” Geist and John “TIG” Tiegen —  two former Benghazi CIA contractors —  are endorsing Trump as well. They were with Trump at the Alabama rally. “I am truly honored to have the support of these American heroes, the best of their generation. The American people can know with certainty, I will always place their interest above all else. I am the most militaristic person and it is so important to me to strengthen our military and protect American families and freedoms,” Trump said. Mark “OZ” Geist said: “We, perhaps more than any Americans, know the absolute and imperative reason that we elect Donald J. Trump as President of the United States. First and foremost, under a Trump administration, the request for additional security by an ambassador would have been heeded, and second, there is no question, when the attack came, he would have moved heaven and earth to provide the necessary forces to protect and reinforce our warriors. Mr. Trump is the bold, decisive leader America needs at this time. ” John Tiegen said: “It is very clear to see the groundswell of support, never seen before in recent politics. Americans want a strong leader, one who cares more about the safety and freedom of the American people than he does winning elections, or what the press might think. In honor of those we have fought with, I am proud to endorse the next President of the United States, Donald J. Trump. ” 6:59: The Washington Post’s useful idiot Rubin would be at the top of any such list: This is ideal.. Sessions, Christie, etc. will give us a list of people the new conserv party can do without,  —   Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) February 28, 2016,  This is a reverse Dixiecrat moment. Only this time the   walk out,  —   Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) February 28, 2016,  6:50: Watch Sessions’s endorsement: WATCH: Sen. Jeff Sessions endorses @realDonaldTrump: ”We need to make America great again.” https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) February 28, 2016,  6:45: Trump’s raising the roof:   poll, Trump 44Cruz 21Rubio 17Kasich 8,   49, Rubio 27, Cruz 25,    58, Cruz 42Trump 57, Rubio 43,  —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) February 28, 2016,  As I have been saying, ceiling myth for Trump is just that. A myth. Avg of state polls,   TX, is around 40%. Let’s see next national polls,  —   Matthew Dowd (@matthewjdowd) February 28, 2016,  6:40: News of Sessions’s big endorsement of Trump makes it to Hollywood on its biggest night: . @realDonaldTrump Scores First Endorsement From a U. S. Senator https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   TheWrap (@TheWrap) February 28, 2016,  6:38: Crowd chants ” We love Trump. ” He wants a “resounding” victory in Alabama that “knocks the hell out of everybody” on Super Tuesday. Trump says “I love you all” after saying we are going to win on the border, on education to make America greater than it has ever been before. He asks the crowd to go out and vote before exiting the stage. HUNTSVILLE, Ala.  —   Trump leaves rally to ”Sweet Home Alabama.” ”Love this song,” he said. Red hat back. VIDEO: pic. twitter.   —   Kevin Cirilli (@kevcirilli) February 28, 2016,  6:35: Trump says he may win Texas and says people have never seen anything like the Trump phenomenon. He says “you’re a phenomena. We’re all a phenomena. ” He points out that he is on top while spending the least amount of money. And he says wouldn’t it be great if the country got a similar back for its buck. 6:33: Trump praises THE ALABAMA CRIMSON TIDE football team and says “I love champs. ” “You got a helluva coach,” Trump says of Nick Saban, who grew up in West Virginia among hardscrabble,   Americans similar to ones who are supporting Trump and may arguably be the greatest college coach ever. Trump says he has never met Saban and doesn’t know his politics. 6:32: Trump says American can’t become great until we become a “rich nation. ” Trump says “I don’t want your money” but “I want you to do one thing” —  vote on Tuesday. 6:31: Trump says illegal immigrants are treated better than the vets and taken care of better. “We’re not going to let that happen anymore,” Trump says. 6:29: After a plane flies overhead, Trump blasts today’s depleted military. Trump blasts military leaders for telling the enemy that our military is depleted. He says building up our military is the “cheapest thing to do” for our national security. Trump insists he doesn’t want to use it. Trump says China is building a military fortress in the South China Sea without going through environmental impact studies. He mocks Obama for complaining about the carbon footprint while taking Air Force One to Hawaii to play golf. Trump says Obama plays more golf than people on the PGA tour. “We’re going to get our jobs back,” he says. “We’re going to take care of our military  …     we’re going to take are of our vets. ” ”It’s ISIS get ‘em down,” @realDonaldTrump says as small single engine plane flies overhead,  —   Jeremy Diamond (@JDiamond1) February 28, 2016,  6:25: Trump says “we’re losing our country” because of unfair trade deals. He says China is the greatest chess master at manipulating currency. He says he loves that Sessions is opposed to Obamatrade because it is “another Iran Deal” that is “horrible” and will “destroy jobs. ” He will levy a 35% tax on Carrier, Ford and other countries that move their plants overseas. He blast the “bloodsuckers” who support Rubio. He says they have “such power” over our Senators. He says the Senators know these deals are bad but agree to them because they get paid in campaign contributions and “things we don’t know about. Probably other things. ” Trump says he is 100% sure that these companies will stay in America when he is president. 6:24: Trump: “When I get Jeff Sessions, that means a lot to me. ” 6:23: Trump: “I’m becoming mainstream” with all these endorsements. 6:22: Trump says “we’re going to turn things around” on trade. He says we have the greatest business minds in the world and we don’t use them. Trump says we instead have political hacks who get their positions because of their political contributions to negotiate trade deals. 6:20: Trump praises Jerry Falwell Jr. and Sarah Palin. He says Falwell said Trump most reminds me of my father. Trump says Falwell Jr. told him his father endorsed Ronald Reagan over Jimmy Carter even though Reagan was less religious because he thought Reagan would be a better president. 6:17: Trump calls Karl Rove a “moron” and says Republicans will never win another election listening to people like Rove.  He mocks the mainstream media for saying he has hit his ceiling every time his poll numbers go up. Trump says the media first thought his ceiling was at 15% and now he is at 44% in a Reuters poll. 6:13: Trump says he won’t be beholden to lobbyists like  . He says his whole life has been about “money accumulation” but now he has to turn down millions of dollars. Trump says he keeps saying “no, no, no. ” He says he wonders if people are appreciating that he is   his campaign. 6:11: Trump says “you gotta vote or our movement ends. ”He wants the fire marshall to allow the thousands waiting outside of the stadium to enter his rally, wondering how there could be a fire hazard when his event is outdoors. And here’s a pan of today’s Trump rally in Alabama. pic. twitter.   —   Jill Colvin (@colvinj) February 28, 2016,  Ok, sun has set a bit. Here’s the scene at Trump’s Alabama rally pic. twitter.   —   Jill Colvin (@colvinj) February 28, 2016,  Just a part of the crowd that’s here in Huntsville to see #Trump.  #election2016 pic. twitter.   —   Ian Hoppe (@IanHoppe) February 28, 2016,  Donald Trump speaking in Madison, Alabama pic. twitter.   —   Adam Holbein (@AdamWVTM13) February 28, 2016,  6:08: Trump says he will be the greatest   president God has ever created. Trump says what China has done to the United States is the “greatest theft” in the history of the world. Trump’s says he wishes our leaders were doing to China what they are doing to us. He says he won’t buy Carrier air conditioners after the company moved to Mexico. 6:05: Trump says “little Marco” and Cruz said they would build a border wall after Trump first made the promise. He says Sheriff Joe Arpaio has endorsed him, which means he is the strongest on the border. Trump says after he, in Rush Limbaugh’s words, took so much “incoming” for standing against illegal immigration, then people came over to his side. He says he talked about borders and trade and “it morphed into something much different” after the   Bernardino attacks. He says “people started to look at me for safety and protection. ” Trump says “we’re going to protect our country” militarily and at the border. Trump says our country can’t lose $500 billion to China because of terrible trade deals. Trump says he is a free trader but we have to get something out of it and he is not a free trader if we are going to lose $500 billion to China. 6:02: Trump says “all hell broke loose” when he talked about illegal immigration when he announced his campaign. He says he has friends  in California and Texas who have told him about the illegal immigration problem. He also has friends who have been addicted to drugs and knew about the illegal immigration problem when D. C. elites were clueless. He says we wouldn’t be talking about illegal immigration had it not been for him. 5:58: Trump slams Rubio for supporting Disney’s plan to bring in foreign workers. He blasts the Omnibus budget and says “we are going to have wonderful budgets” and build up our military, “which is so depleted. ” He says our military is so depleted from mismanagement and listening to people like Lindsey Graham saying drop bombs on everybody.  Trump says Putin will not get anything for calling Trump a “genius. ” He says “what’s wrong with having Russia” work with us to drop bombs on ISIS. He seems flattered that Putin called him a genius and says he won’t disavow it. 5:55: Trump says the New York Times is one of the most dishonest media outlets. He says it is “losing its shirt” and someone is going to buy it as a vanity project. 5:52: Fox News is not televising Trumps rally. It has an Oscars special on instead. While America is watching   Fox News is talking about the Oscars.  —   Kyle (@kyleraccio) February 28, 2016,  WOW FOX NEWS is showing the Oscars instead of the Trump Rally and his big endorsement what the hell is going on with FOX,  —   Eve (@evie121462) February 28, 2016,  5:50: Another protester interrupts Trump’s rally. He says, “isn’t it fun to be at a Trump rally. It’s part of the deal. ” Trump blasts Bernie Sanders for allowing Black Lives Matter protesters to take over his microphone. He says nobody will take over his microphone because they are “taking it away from you. ” Trump says Clinton should not be allowed to run because she broke the law. He vows to hammer her on her email scandals. [Earlier, Andrea Mitchell said the Clintons are worried that Trump will attack Clinton on her scandals in ways they can’t prepare for in advance] 5:48: Trump says he thought Rubio was going to faint at the debate. He says “we don’t need a fainter” to negotiate with Putin or knock out ISIS. Trump says Rubio is now trying to act tough. He blasts Rubio for charging personal expenses on the Florida GOP’s credit card and only reimbursing the party after he got caught. He also slams Rubio for selling his home to a lobbyist who had business before him. Trump says, unlike Rubio, he is   his campaign and not beholden to special interests that need to be taken care of. 5:47: “All Lives Matter,” Trump says to Black Lives Matter protesters. After protesters removed from Trump rally, Trump declares, ”All Lives Matter” pic. twitter.   —   Mashable News (@MashableNews) February 28, 2016,  As more protesters are escorted out of Alabama rally, Donald Trump says: ”We have to love everybody. All. Lives. Matter.”  —   Jenna Johnson (@wpjenna) February 28, 2016,  5:45: Trump rips Rubio for sweating profusely and for melting down during the New Hampshire debate. He calls him “nasty” and “little Marco. ” 5:42: “That is so great,” Trump says. “He’s an incredible guy. ” Trump says there has never been at time where we’ve made so many decisions that have been so wrong like the Iran Deal and the border deal. He is honored that he received Sessions’s first presidential primary endorsement as a Senator. “You’re going to be so proud of your president,” Trump says. “They’re not proud now. ” 5:41: Sessions says the American people have known for years that these trade agreements have not been working for them. Sessions says Trump will ensure that Obamatrade, which will undermine our sovereignty, does not pass as president. Sessions says Trump doesn’t take money from political groups and lobbyists and is “committed to leading this country in an effective way. ” Sessions says nobody is perfect but “it is time to make America Great again. ” He puts on one of Trump’s hats as the crowd chants “USA! USA! USA!” Crowd also chanting “We want Trump!” Jeff Sessions put on his #MakeAmericaGreatAgain hat after endorsing Trump! LOVE IT! !!#Trump2016#TrumpTrain pic. twitter.   —   Youth 4 Trump (@SoCal4Trump) February 28, 2016,    Sessions officially endorses Trump: ”We need to make America Great again”  —  Session puts on hat.  —   Katy Tur (@KatyTurNBC) February 28, 2016,  5:40: Crowd roars as Trump introduces Sessions. He says he told Trump that “this is a movement. ” “The American people are not happy with their government,” Sessions said. He says you have asked for 30 years to fix illegal immigration. He asks, “have they done it?” Crowd responds, “no. ” Sessions says “Donald Trump will do it. ” 5:37: Trump says Sessions is the “expert” on borders and almost everything else. “We want strong borders,” Trump says. “We want the wall. ” Trump blasts   President Vicente Fox for using a “horrible,  horrible” word. Trump says Fox is “very angry” because he is not used to Mexico being told what to do. Trump says people will only come into our country legally. 5:35: Trump takes the stage to “Sweet Home Alabama. ” “This is amazing,” he says. “I can listen to that music all day long. ” 5:30: Nearly 20, 000 people are watching the lifestream of Trump’s Alabama event. And it hasn’t even started yet. 5:28: The Washington Post’s useful idiot, who doubted that Trump would reach 5% in the polls, has an opinion about Sessions’s Trump endorsement: sessions joins the fascist,  —   Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) February 28, 2016,  5:25: Rubio ally shows how out of touch GOP establishment consultants are. Sessions is held in the highest regard by voters who listen to talk radio —  the same types of conservatives that consultants like Wilson loved to mock while underestimating Trump’s appeal:   Honest, fam. You may know Sessions, but no. one. else. does. National name ID is zero.  —   Rick Wilson (@TheRickWilson) February 28, 2016,  5:20: Cruz on Sessions’s Trump endorsement: CRUZ: ”I’ll wait to comment on endorsements until they happen.”  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) February 28, 2016,  5:03: From Breitbart’s Boyle: Game Change: Jeff Sessions Endorses Trump from Stage in Alabama Stunning Event Unites Populist, Nationalist Movement: MADISON, Alabama  —   2016 GOP presidential frontrunner billionaire Donald Trump will pick up the most significant endorsement any presidential candidate in the GOP can get here on Sunday: Sen. Jeff Sessions ( ). Sessions, the intellectual leader of the future of the conservative movement, has provided the brainpower behind the populist nationalist revolt against political elites that’s been emerging since at least 2013. At a warm and windy rally here with thousands present in a packed football stadium just outside Huntsville, Sessions will appear on stage with Trump to back him for president. Sessions’ endorsement provides Trump with even more legitimacy as Trump’s two remaining serious opponents —  Sens. Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) and Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) —  attempt to undermine him in a desperate bid by the donor class to regain control of the party from populists revolting in elections around the country. Sessions backing Trump is a significant blow to both Rubio and Cruz, as now the powerful Alabamian will be putting his entire operation all in behind Trump. Read more here. 5:01: From Breitbart’s Matt Boyle at Trump’s rally in Alabama: Trump’s jumbo jet did a “Top Gun” style flyover of the packed stadium in Madison, Alabama. 5:oo: Trump teases “surprise” announcement: I will be making a big surprise announcement to the massive crowd assembled in   Alabama! Landing now! #Trump2016,  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 28, 2016,  4:57: Announcer asks audience members to not “harm” protesters if they encounter any and just chant “Trump! Trump! Trump!” until police officers escort them away. 4:55: “Trump Force One” lands and the announcer says “Mr. Trump will be here shortly. ” @realDonaldTrump Trump Force One landing at HSV airport! pic. twitter.   —   Justin Morrow (@jmorrow07) February 28, 2016,    4:50: Matt Drudge: ‘Conservative Soul’ Jeff Sessions to Endorse Trump in Alabama this evening: The conservative soul of the US Senate  …     Jeff Sessions  …     will endorse Trump this evening at a Huntsville, Alabama rally  …     Developing  …      —   MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) February 28, 2016,  4:49: Line to get in is “literally miles long. ” This is the school stadium in Alabama hosting today’s Trump rally. The line to get in is literally miles long. pic. twitter.   —   Jose A. DelReal (@jdelreal) February 28, 2016,  4:45: Huge crowd waiting for Trump in Alabama: From Madison,  Alabama  —   thousands waiting for a Donald Trump rally pic. twitter.   —   Jamie Dupree (@jamiedupree) February 28, 2016, 