Radical leftists pushing for an open borders agenda are attempting to destroy the ability of over 80 percent of our nation’s Border Patrol agents to speak out and sound the alarm to the public and to Congress.  The Huffington Post reported that the   extremist group, Not1More, is a “prominent immigrants rights group” and that they were behind an effort to have the   kick out the National Border Patrol Council from its ranks. Not1More derives its name from the idea that “not one more” illegal alien should be deported from the U. S.[The attacks on Border Patrol agents ramped up after Breitbart first reported that the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) had endorsed Donald Trump for President. The organization broke from a history of never endorsing during a presidential primary, perhaps largely due to Trump’s stance that the actual Border Patrol agents who guard our nation’s borders should sit at the head of the table for any discussion determining U. S. border security policy. The Trump campaign, through senior policy adviser Stephen Miller, publicly declared that they would secure the border by listening to the agents in the NBPC, thereby giving the agents the ultimate platform to hold Trump accountable if he did not follow through on his promise —  and unprecedented move for a presidential candidate.  The NBPC, though a union, poses a unique challenge to traditional conservative ideologues because it is the only legal mechanism for Border Patrol agents to advocate and defends themselves. The group is widely conservative, has a lengthy history of endorsing Republicans, and while conservatives are largely in favor of border security and   they would have no ability to obtain the information needed to properly secure the border without the NBPC. Border security advocates would have to rely upon   bureaucrats in the management of the agency to determine what the realities are along the border were it not for the NBPC providing a mechanism for actual agents who work the border to have a voice. The latest attack on Border Patrol agents comes in the form of an online petition to the   to boot the NBPC for simply expressing an opinion that contradicts what most leftists want. The totalitarian effort smeared the men and women who risk their lives protecting our borders by asserting: The legacy of abuse and unaccountability within Border Patrol has made its membership in the American Federal of Labor ( ) an issue of contention. But the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) statement endorsing Donald Trump for president on Wednesday, March 30th, marking NBPC’s first presidential endorsement, is a breaking point. The latest smear campaign from the Left against Border Patrol agents comes after years of efforts to denigrate them as a means of further reducing their ability to properly secure our nation’s borders. The NBPC’s endorsement letter for Trump follows: March 30, 2016, The National Border Patrol Council is the official organization representing our nation’s Border Patrol Agents. We represent 16, 500 agents who selflessly serve this country in an environment where our own political leaders try to keep us from doing our jobs. The NBPC has had a longstanding practice of not endorsing presidential candidates in the primaries. We will not, however, shy away from voicing our opinions as it pertains to border security and the men and women of the United States Border Patrol. As such, we are breaking with our past practice and giving our   endorsement in a presidential primary. We think it is that important: if we do not secure our borders, American communities will continue to suffer at the hands of gangs, cartels and violent criminals preying on the innocent. The lives and security of the American people are at stake, and the National Border Patrol Council will not sit on the sidelines. As an organization we expect our elected officials to aggressively pursue the interests of the country. America has already tried a young, articulate freshman senator who never created a job as an attorney and under whose watch criminal cartels have been given the freest border reign ever known. Unlike his opponents, Donald Trump is not a career politician, he is an outsider who has created thousands of jobs, pledged to bring about aggressive   change, and who is completely independent of special interests. We don’t need a person who has the perfect   tone, and certainly NOT another establishment politician in the W. H.  Indeed, the fact that people are more upset about Mr. Trump’s tone than about the destruction wrought by open borders tells us everything we need to know about the corruption in Washington. We need a person in the White House who doesn’t fear the media, who doesn’t embrace political correctness, who doesn’t need the money, who is familiar with success, who won’t bow to foreign dictators, who is   and values law enforcement, and who is angry for America and NOT subservient to the interests of other nations. Donald Trump is such a man. Mr. Trump is as bold and outspoken as other world leaders who put their country’s interests ahead of all else.  Americans deserve to benefit for once instead of always paying and apologizing. Our current political establishment has bled this country dry, sees their power evaporating, and isn’t listening to voters who do all the heavy lifting.  Trump is opposed by the established powers specifically because they know he is the only candidate who actually threatens the established powers that have betrayed this country. You can judge a man by his opponents: all the people responsible for the problems plaguing America today are opposing Mr. Trump. It is those without political power  —   the workers, the law enforcement officers, the everyday families and community members  —   who are supporting Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump will take on special interests and embrace the ideas of    Border Patrol agents rather than listening to the management   who say whatever they are programmed to say. This is a refreshing change that we have not seen before  —   and may never see again. Mr. Trump is correct when he says immigration wouldn’t be at the forefront of this presidential campaign if months ago he hadn’t made some bold and necessary statements. And when the withering media storm ensued he did not back down one iota.  That tells you the measure of a man.  When the   experts said he was too brash and outspoken, and that he would fade away, they were proven wrong. We are confident they will be proven wrong again in November when he becomes President of the United States. There is no greater physical or economic threat to Americans today than our open border.  And there is no greater political threat than the control of Washington by special interests.  In view of these threats, the National Border Patrol Council endorses Donald J. Trump for President  —   and asks the American people to support Mr. Trump in his mission to finally secure the border of the United States of America, before it is too late. Sincerely, Brandon JuddPresidentNational Border Patrol Council, (Disclosure: Breitbart Texas sponsored the Green Line podcast for the NBPC in an effort to provide a platform for agents to inform the public about the realities on the border and what Border Patrol agents face. Director Brandon Darby received an award from the Laredo chapter of the NBPC for his work in helping to defend and bring a voice to Border Patrol agents. Breitbart News assisted in covering funeral costs for a slain Border Patrol agent previously. Darby and Breitbart senior management have directly stated and shown that helping to bring a voice to the expressed needs and interests of Border Patrol agents is a top priority —  personally, individually and together through Breitbart News.)    