The     nationalist Black Panther Party is headline news again, thanks to Beyonce’s Super Bowl 50 halftime show performance of her song “Formation,” —  “a big wet kiss to Black Lives Matter” that pays tribute to the 1960s militant group. [In the fall of 1966, the Black Panther Party was founded by   militants Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale. Newton, like Seale, had several   with police. He was convicted and sentenced to 30 years in prison for the shooting death of an Oakland police officer. Publicity around his arrest and the popularity of “Free Newton” propaganda provided the public pressure that led to his release.  Seale and seven others (now known as the Chicago Seven) were arrested at the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago. Seale was sentenced to four years in prison for contempt of court. He now lives and works with young political activists in Oakland, California. Below are seven facts about the Black Panther Party: 1. The Black Panther Party’s “Platform and Program” called for guaranteed housing, income, and jobs for black people: We want full employment for our people. We want an end to the robbery by the white man of our Black Community. We want decent housing, fit for shelter of human beings. 2. The Black Panther Party was against capitalism and supported socialism: “We have two evils to fight, capitalism and racism. We must destroy both racism and capitalism,” said Black Panther Party founder Huey P. Newton. “We do not fight racism with racism. We fight racism with solidarity. We do not fight exploitative capitalism with Black capitalism. We fight capitalism with basic socialism. And we do not fight imperialism with more imperialism. We fight imperialism with proletarian internationalism,” wrote Black Panther Party founder Bobby Seale in his biography Seize the Time: The Story of the Black Panther Party and Huey P. Newton. 3. The Black Panther Party wanted “all black men to be exempt from military service”: Rule number six of the “Rules of the Black Panther Party” states, “No party member can join any other army force, other than the Black Liberation Army. ” 4. The Black Panther Party supported the Second Amendment as a means to “end police brutality in our black community”: 5. The Black Panther Party called for “freedom for all black men held in federal, state, county and city prisons and jails. ” 6. In its “  Program,” The Black Panther Party sought to overthrow the U. S. government.  7. The Black Panther Party implored its members not to “ ” those whom they “take captive. ” Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson.