Former New York Lt. Governor Betsy McCaughey writes in Investor’s Business Daily that the new documentary film “Clinton Cash” based on Peter Schweizer’s bestselling book of the same name, reveals how the Clintons “cashed in” on their government service. [When Bill and Hillary Clinton moved out of the White House fifteen years ago, they were “dead broke,” says Hillary. Today they’re worth up to $150 million. A new documentary, Clinton Cash, reveals how they went from broke to filthy rich, with an emphasis on filthy.  The Clintons have made out like bandits compared with another political couple, former Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell and his wife Maureen. The McDonnells were convicted of accepting over $150, 000 in gifts while in office from a businessman. The Clintons raked in seven hundred times that amount  —   $105 million —    under the pretext of speaking fees while Hillary Clinton was in public office. Yet the McDonnells face time in the big house, while the Clintons are aiming for the White House. Clinton Cash is based on a book by former Hoover Institution fellow Peter Schweizer that has withstood a year of intense scrutiny by critics. It’s fact, not fiction, and the facts are compelling. The documentary whisks you to corrupt places around the globe where the Clintons personally pocketed six figure speaking fees or collected billions for their family foundation. How? Trading on Hillary’s position as Secretary of State and possible future presidency. They sold out to titans, dictators and shady characters in Nigeria, the Congo, Kazakhstan, United Arab Emirates, not to mention Goldman Sachs and TD Bank. Along the way, the Clintons betrayed values they profess on the campaign trail  —   human rights, environmentalism, and democracy. Schweizer plans a screening to coincide with the Democratic National Convention  —  to show the party faithful how the Clintons sabotaged liberal principles to amass a fortune. Read the rest here. Watch the Clinton Cash trailer below: 