The Washington Post reports that a tsunami of Third World migration is disenfranchising Americans and turning the   state of Virginia blue, confirming what Breitbart News has warned against for months. [While George W. Bush won the Old Dominion state in 2000 and 2004, Barack Obama took it in 2008 and 2012. From 1992 to 2012, in Northern Virginia alone, the population rose from 1. 5 million to 2. 2 million.  “What is clear is that the demographics of the state have shifted dramatically in the space of a single decade, with populations of educated,   professionals as well as immigrants and other minorities  —   all voters who tend to choose Democrats  —   growing in urban areas. These shifts reflect national trends, Pew research shows,” the Post reports. The explosive growth in Northern Virginia counties, filled with migrants, bureaucrats, and the     who marinated in academia for years, also tips the state towards the Democrats.   percent of Northern Virginia residents are foreigners, with 68 percent of the state’s   population clustered in the region, researchers found in 2014. In 1970, only one in 100 residents in Virginia was  . Now, the number is one in nine. As Breitbart News has noted: “A   person living in parts of Virginia today will have witnessed more demographic change in the span of her life than many societies have experienced in millennia. ” Furthermore, she did not vote or ask for such extreme changes. The American Immigration Council cheered for the “New Americans” in Virginia, showing how the sheer number foreign nationals and their descendants will transform the state where Thomas Jefferson is buried: The Post’s weasel word “tend” downplays the overwhelming demand for   policies and handouts that the   Third World immigrants want. As Phyllis Schlafly’s groundbreaking report on mass legal immigration explained, New York and San Francisco are the future of the entire nation should immigration from   countries continue: “These are two of the most intensely   cities in America  —     of residents are  . Both cities’ governments are solidly   combining high taxes and oppressive business regulation with the Left’s cultural agenda and   grievance politics. The immigrants in both cities are quite different, with San Francisco being predominately Asian while New York’s immigrants are very diverse, with Hispanics being the largest share. Yet, there has been no significant political pushback against liberal policies from immigrant voters in either city. In fact, Hispanics and Asians are part of the dominant Democratic coalition in both places. ” As the 2014 report reveals, Latino and Asian immigrants strongly favor liberal policies such as affirmative action, Obamacare, and financial bailouts for big banks. The cultural and patriotic outlook is even more dismal: Only 37 percent of the   believe the Constitution is a higher authority than international law, compared to 67 percent of the   with 34 percent saying they weren’t sure. This is old but still unwelcome news to a party whose activists hand out pocket Constitutions in the hopes of converting new voters to the GOP. There is no indication that the Latino and Asian residents of Virginia will deviate from 2008 and 2012 voting patterns or political beliefs. Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine have worked hard to sweeten the deal for Latinos in particular, promising to dissolve U. S. borders within 100 days of her inauguration and using illegal aliens to boost voter turnout. Whether it’s enough to overcome the state’s white working class voters and give Clinton 13 more electoral votes remains to be seen. Virginia won’t be the only populous state to turn blue if nothing is done to halt immigration into the U. S. Unless current extreme immigration levels are reduced, by 2060 business interests and progressive forces will have imported 78. 2 million   people, an invasion over eight and a half times the size of the Western Allied invasion of Germany and Nazi Germany’s Operation Barbarossa  —   combined. Obama himself has expressed hope that the crushing numbers of the Third World will destroy conservatism and told a Latino audience while in Florida, another swing state, that there will be a “President Rodriguez” “someday” after he granted illegal aliens amnesty.