The    niece of   Grammy   rapper   was fatally stabbed Tuesday morning at a Walgreens in Tallahassee, Florida. [Javona Glover, the mother of a    daughter, was an employee at the drug store, WCTV reports.    whose real name is Faheem Rashad Najm, used social media to encourage local residents to assist Tallahassee law enforcement in their hunt for his niece’s killer. “The police are still lookin for the coward ass n*gga that just killed my niece at Walgreens in Tallahassee. If you got info pls help us out!”   tweeted Tuesday, adding, “if anybody in 850 got any info on this then step up pls. ” The police are still lookin for the coward ass nigga that just killed my niece at Walgreens in Tallahassee. If you got info pls help us out!  —     (@TPAIN) August 30, 2016,  https:  .  if anybody in 850 got any info on this then step up pls.  —     (@TPAIN) August 30, 2016,  On Tuesday afternoon, the Tallahassee Police Department named    Tavon Q. Jackson a suspect in the murder investigation and secured a warrant for his arrest. Investigators also released surveillance video which, according to TPD, shows images of Jackson at the scene of the crime during the time of the homicide.   continued to use social media to assist in the search for the suspect connected to his niece’s death, urging his nearly 700, 000 Instagram followers to contact law enforcement if they “know the whereabouts of Tavon Jackson. ” A photo posted by   (@tpain) on Aug 30, 2016 at 4:00pm PDT,  So far, no arrests have been made. Walgreens issued the following statement on Tuesday: “We extend our deepest condolences to the family and loved ones of our team member. The store is temporarily closed while police conduct their investigation and we refer you to police for any additional information. Pharmacy patients who normally use this location can have their medications filled at our nearby stores located at 313 N. Monroe St. and 140 Capital Circle. ”   a native of Tallahassee, Florida, launched his music carrier in 2004 and quickly became a  . From 2006 to 2010, the Stoicville: The Phoenix singer was featured on or produced over 50   singles.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson