CNN’s David Gergen, a former aide to former President Bill Clinton who also worked for three GOP administrations prior to that, embarrassed himself on live television on Wednesday by claiming falsely that Peter Schweizer’s book Clinton Cash has been “basically discredited. ”[Gergen, who was on a CNN panel to analyze presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump’s Wednesday speech on Hillary Clinton and the stakes of the 2016 presidential election, said he was “surprised” that Trump used Schweizer’s book because in his view the media has “basically discredited” it.  “I was really surprised he leaned as heavily as he did upon the Schweizer book, Clinton Cash —  that book has been basically discredited,” Gergen said. “Other news organizations have looked at it and said he has no evidence, he has no evidence that shows money given by donors to the Clinton Foundation then resulted in actions by the State Department that favored those donors. ” Gergen also claimed later on CNN that the speech was “slanderous” and again claimed that the book has been “widely discredited. ” Gergen’s claim couldn’t be further from the truth and proves he clearly has not read the following mainstream publications that have confirmed key details in Clinton Cash: The New York Times, The New Yorker, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg, Reuters, CBS News, ABC News, and Politico. As Breitbart News detailed in April, each of those publications has confirmed several key details of the Clinton Cash book. The Times confirmed that Clinton violated the Memorandum of Understanding she signed with the Obama administration that promised the disclosure of foreign donations. “As Clinton Cash reveals, Ian Telfer, the foreign head of the   uranium company, Uranium One, which Hillary Clinton approved to acquire U. S. uranium, made four individual hidden donations to the Clinton Foundation totaling $2. 35 million, none of which appear in Clinton Foundation disclosures,” Breitbart News wrote back in April. The New Yorker confirmed that Bill Clinton received half a million dollars for a speech that was paid for by “a Russian investment bank that had ties to the Kremlin” while the Uranium One deal was ongoing. The Washington Post confirmed the details about the Haitian gold mine scandal that involved Hillary Clinton’s brother Tony Rodham. The Wall Street Journal confirmed details about donations from Canadian mining executive Stephen Dattels. The New York Times has also confirmed more on the Uranium One deal, while Bloomberg has confirmed the details about the Laureate Education, Inc. area of the scandal. The Washington Post also confirmed details about how much of the Clintons’ wealth comes from the foundation, while CBS News confirmed details about Schweizer’s deep dive on Jeb Bush —  the former Florida governor. ABC News confirmed the paid speeches revelations, and those connections to Hillary Clinton’s work as Secretary of State. “Records supported the premise that former President Clinton accepted speaking fees from numerous companies and individuals with interests pending before the State Department,” ABC News wrote. Meanwhile The New York Times also confirmed the details about the Kazakh nuclear officials, while Politico confirmed that Clinton can’t dismiss the book’s findings because they are accurate. “Hillary’s Clinton Cash dismissal is dead in the water,” Politico wrote. Of course, if all of these and more news confirmations of the Clinton Cash revelations were not enough, maybe the   hacked Democratic National Committee (DNC) document that showed that the Democratic Party itself considered this narrative among Hillary Clinton’s “vulnerabilities” would be. On Tuesday, Breitbart News reported on the   secret DNC memo uncovered by hacker “Guccifer 2. 0” and how it documented hundreds of news reports on malfeasance by the Clinton Foundation.