Chicago police report ‘at least 19 people were shot’ and six persons killed from Friday night to Saturday morning in   Chicago. [The shootings and death continue a string of mayhem and bloodshed that has made 2016 one of the deadliest years in Chicago history.  According to the Chicago   one person was killed and six others wounded in one shooting Friday night. That shooting occurred at 8:15 p. m. in East Garfield Park. Police reported that the victims “were standing together in the 3300 block of West Maypole when someone in a black vehicle going east opened fire. ” Three of the wounded men were able to “[take] themselves to Mount Sinai Hospital in good condition with gunshot wounds to the arms and legs. ” Two others —  a man and woman —  were injured and had to be transported to a hospital. The sixth wounded victim was only grazed with a bullet and “was treated, but not taken to a hospital. ” A seventh individual —  “a male whose age was unknown” —  was taken to the hospital and pronounced dead. Approximately 15 minutes before the shooting on West Maypole, two men —  ages 18 and 20 years old —  “were standing by a parked car in the 5500 block of West Congress Parkway  …    when a gray car drove up and someone inside opened fire, hitting the younger man in the head and the older man repeatedly. ” Both men were fatally wounded. And the shootings continue and the death toll rises. On October 11 Breitbart News reported that Chicago was approaching 600 homicides for the year. At that point, the Chicago Tribune reported the number of homicides was 578 and the number of shooting victims was 3, 368. Homicides    are now well over 580 and the Tribune reports 3, 424 shooting victims January 1 through October 15, 2016. DNA Info reports that Cook County State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez expects to see Chicago homicides hit 700 by the end of the year. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.