MATAMOROS, Tamaulipas  —   The leaders of two of the most powerful drug cartels in Mexico gathered to strengthen alliances, draw new routes and territories for the smuggling of drugs, and discuss battle plans against shared rivals. [The meeting was exclusively confirmed to Breitbart Texas by a witness to the event. Last week, while the world tuned in to the U. S. elections, the leaders of the Gulf Cartel in Matamoros met with their counterparts of the Los Zetas Vieja Escuela (Old School Z) in an effort to solidify an alliance dubbed the “Carteles Unidos” (United Cartels). Mexican federal intelligence officials separetly confirmed the accuracy of the meeting witness’ claim to Breitbart Texas.  The meeting occured in the downtown area of Matamoros beginning at 11 a. m. local time and lasted for more than 6 hours. Those in attendance left after 5 p. m. in a discreet fashion. The event was organized by Sergio “Sr. Cortez” Ortegon, who is the current leader of the Gulf Cartel in Matamoros. Those in attendance included leaders of the Zetas Vieja Escuela group from Oaxaca, Tabasco, Nuevo Leon, San Luis Potosi, Coahuila, Veracruz, and Quintana Roo.  Breitbart Texas has reported in the past that the Vieja Escuela Zetas faction of the Los Zetas has been at war with the faction called Cartel Del Noreste (CDN). The fighting between the two has sparked widespread violence in Tamaulipas and spread to other states, including Nuevo León and Coahuila.  The main topic of the meeting was the opening of border trade routes and putting an end to tensions within the groups in attendance. The Gulf Cartel in Matamoros would open its drug trafficking routes and provide logistical support while the Los Zetas Vieja Escuela would not only pay for the service but also provide training, weapons and strike teams if needed.  Members of the Gulf Cartel from Reynosa, under the leadership of Julian “Comandante Toro” Loiza Salinas were not invited to the summit. Intelligence sources on both sides of the border confirmed to Breitbart Texas that there has been a   rivalry between Cortez and Toro. In 2015, Gulf Cartel forces from Matamoros and Reynosa clashed in a bloody turf war.  According to the witness, both the Zetas Vieja Escuela and the Gulf Cartel in Matamoros have been carrying out a “cleanup” where they have gone after kidnappers and robbers in an attempt to resurrect the times when cartels simply moved drugs and left average citizens alone. Breitbart Texas has reported in some of these cases that have included the executions of kidnappers and the torture of robbers. The CDN faction of the Los Zetas as well as the Gulf Cartel in Reynosa are believed to actively promote kidnapping, extortion, and other crimes to diversify their cash flows.  Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas, Coahuila and Nuevo León to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities.  The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “A. C. Del Angel” from Reynosa, Tamaulipas.