Pop superstar Beyoncé will join her husband, rapper Jay Z, in Ohio on Friday to headline a major     concert for Hillary Clinton, according to a report. [CBS News reports that Clinton is expected to attend the event, which will be held at Cleveland State University Friday evening. The   concert is aimed at galvanizing young and black supporters in the important battleground state the last weekend before Election Day.  Some reports indicate that Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James, who endorsed Clinton earlier this month, may also make an appearance at Friday’s event. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump currently holds a   lead over Clinton in Ohio, according to polls released this week. Early voting patterns look good for the Republican candidate in the Buckeye State. Jay Z’s attendance at the concert had already been announced. However, the reported addition of Beyoncé to the Cleveland campaign event lineup adds even more star power, if not some controversy. As Breitbart News previously reported, Beyoncé has spent years stoking   sentiment. The Lemonade singer kicked off the year with her   tribute to the   enforcement Black Panther Party at the Super Bowl in February, where Beyoncé and her backup dancers, clad in Panther uniforms, performed her   Lives Matter song “Formation. ” Some, including former New York City Mayor Rudi Giuliani, called the Black Panther tribute performance a blatant “attack on police officers. ” The   performance sparked backlash from law enforcement organizations across the country and resulted in calls for a boycott of Beyoncé’s “Formation” world tour. Months later, Beyoncé mocked police officers by featuring merchandise at her concerts bearing the slogan “Boycott Beyoncé. ” After the   shooting deaths of two black men in July, Beyoncé penned an open later directed at American law enforcement. “We are sick and tired of the killings of young men and women in our communities,” the Grammy   singer wrote in the letter posted to her website. “It is up to us to take a stand and demand that they ‘stop killing us. ’” Earlier this year, Beyoncé  ’s streaming service Tidal pledged to donate $1. 5 million to Black Lives Matter and other social   organizations.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson