DETROIT  —   President Trump’s goal of stimulating growth in the American auto industry is getting a big push from the seemingly insatiable appetite of consumers for more trucks and sport utility vehicles. On Tuesday, Ford Motor became the latest car company to announce major investments in its facilities in the United States, prompting Mr. Trump to hail the move as another milestone in his efforts to support domestic auto manufacturing. But the decision by Ford to invest $1. 2 billion in three Michigan locations is more about America’s love affair with pickups and S. U. V.s than about economic policies put forth by the Trump administration. Like similar announcements made this year by General Motors and Fiat Chrysler, Ford’s move is primarily driven by competitive pressures to keep pace with the surging market for new truck and S. U. V. models. The centerpiece of Ford’s investment package involves spending $850 million to upgrade its assembly plant in Wayne, Mich. to build a new Ranger pickup and Bronco S. U. V. The decision to add the new models was previously agreed to in Ford’s labor contract with the United Automobile Workers, and was hardly a surprise given the industry’s continued shift toward larger, more utilitarian vehicles. And although Mr. Trump basked in the news with a Twitter message that hailed “car companies coming back to U. S.,” Ford said the decision was prompted by the realities of the current marketplace. “These products are well positioned for where consumers are now and where they are going,” said Joseph R. Hinrichs, president of Ford’s Americas division. About three out of every five new vehicles sold in the United States are trucks and sport utility vehicles, and their popularity has been critical to the industry’s two straight years of record overall sales. The growth in larger models is partly because of low gasoline prices, as well as continued efforts by automakers to broaden their product lineups to meet demand. G. M. for example, has enjoyed success with a new line of midsize pickups that offer consumers an attractive alternative to its larger truck models. Fiat Chrysler, for its part, has expanded its portfolio of Jeep S. U. V.s to feature smaller models that incorporate the rugged styling and capability that has defined the brand for years. In Ford’s case, the company needed to branch out beyond its   pickups with a new Ranger model that could compete with G. M.’s entries in the segment. Similarly, the Bronco adds another S. U. V. in Ford showrooms to rival the Jeep lineup. Mr. Hinrichs said the new models were “building on our strengths” in the truck and S. U. V. categories  —   even as the investments are seen as a response to Mr. Trump’s aggressive push for more American auto jobs. In addition to the investment in the Wayne assembly plant, Ford said Tuesday that it would spend $150 million to add or retain 130 jobs at a Michigan engine plant, and invest $200 million on an advanced data center to support the development of autonomous and electrified vehicles. He said the investments were not discussed with Mr. Trump when he met with auto executives on March 15 in the Detroit area, vowing to reduce government regulations to promote job growth. “It wasn’t part of that conversation,” Mr. Hinrichs said, noting that Ford has been steadily expanding its domestic manufacturing operations since the last recession. “We are glad to call this country our home,” he said. “And we are proud to be going further in our commitment to invest in manufacturing here. ” But it is difficult to deny that Mr. Trump’s intense interest in the auto industry is having an effect on the production plans of Ford, G. M. and other automakers. During his presidential campaign, Mr. Trump repeatedly criticized Ford, for example, for its plans to build a $1. 6 billion factory to make small cars in Mexico. After justifying the move on several occasions as a prudent investment, Ford suddenly scrapped the Mexican plant after Mr. Trump’s election. Since then, the company has shifted its focus to expanding and upgrading several of its facilities in its home state of Michigan. It is hardly alone. On the day of Mr. Trump’s visit to Michigan, G. M. said it would create or retain about 900 jobs in the state  —   mostly to support manufacturing of new trucks and S. U. V. s. This week, the Japanese automaker Honda said it would spend $85 million to improve manufacturing flexibility at its plant in Alabama that makes S. U. V. s, pickups and minivans. The industry could see more American investment in the months ahead if the truck and S. U. V. market continues to expand. And Mr. Trump could accelerate the flow of money into American plants if he follows through with his pledge to establish a border tax on vehicles imported from Mexico and elsewhere. With the American market poised for another big year of vehicle sales, companies are eager to capitalize on the strong demand while it lasts  —   even if it means stepping up investments to increase production or introduce new models.