The mushrooming media frenzy over the lack of black Oscar nominations continued Wednesday with a verbal assault on actress and Fox News contributor Stacey Dash after she suggested that black entertainers be consistent in their calls to end segregation in Hollywood. [“I think it’s ludicrous. We have to make up our minds. Either we want to have segregation or integration,” Dash said Wednesday on Fox and Friends.   “If we don’t want segregation then we need to get rid of channels like BET and the BET Awards and the [NCAAP] Image Awards where you’re only awarded if you’re black. If it were the other way around, we’d be up in arms. ” Within hours, Twitter was filled with social media screeds suggesting Stacey Dash is a “stupid” “puppet” who, according to a white comedian named John Fugelsang, “abandoned melanin. ” Just because Stacey Dash abandoned melanin doesn’t mean the rest of us need to abandon Black History Month.  —   John Fugelsang (@JohnFugelsang) January 20, 2016,  Although Stacey Dash’s suggestion to end Black History Month has been asserted before —  no less than by actor Morgan Freeman —  that didn’t stop mindless liberals from explaining to the actress the only line of thinking she must adhere to. New York radio host Ebro Darden suggested Dash is suffering mentally from overindulging on medication: After listening to Stacey Dash I am convinced she’s on some pills and her mind is numb from years of taking them  …      —   Ebro Darden (@oldmanebro) January 20, 2016,    football player and serial   Chad Johnson asserted Dash is just a braindead “puppet. ” In all seriousness, who pulls the strings to the puppet that is Stacey Dash, so reminiscent to Jason Whitlock   the verbiage she spews  …      —   Chad Johnson (@ochocinco) January 20, 2016,  And professional attention whore Perez Hilton’s thoughtful response was that Dash’s opinion is “stupid. ” Of course Stacey Dash has something to say about the #Oscars and of course it’s stupid https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Perez Hilton (@PerezHilton) January 20, 2016,  Black Entertainment television Tweeted a picture of Dash acting in one of the network’s shows, The Game, and asked for their “check back. ”  Soooooo @REALStaceyDash can we get our check back  …     or nah? #Remember#YouWereOnTheGame  #AndWeDontMeanTheRapper pic. twitter.   —   BET (@BET) January 20, 2016,  At one point, Republican Presidential frontrunner Donald Trump supported Dash’s idea to do away with   awards shows. Dash is no stranger to controversy, and it’s safe to say she’s not backing down. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson.