Following Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos’s brief suspension from Twitter after his outspoken criticism of Islam in the wake of the Orlando attacks, it’s a great time to recap some of the comments that might have pushed the   friendly Twitter authorities over the edge. [His first foray into the issue was when he penned a column back in 2014 analyzing the reasons behind the fact that 76 per cent of white British converts to radical Islam were ginger, citing the likelihood of their being bullied and persecuted throughout their early life.  Then, last November, he wrote another column entitled, ‘I’m A Gay Man and Mass Muslim Immigration Terrifies Me,’ where he outlined his fear of a European migration policy was importing “all the people who want to murder me. ” Since then, he has consistently used his   Twitter platform to crack jokes about Islam and the tendency of social justice warriors to ignore the intolerant attitudes of the Islamic mainstream. Obama is right. There is nothing magical about the phrase ”radical Islam.” It’s just Islam.  —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) June 14, 2016,  Just a reminder: terrorists yelling Allah Akbar as they gun down innocent people absolutely nothing whatsoever at all to do with Islam.  —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) November 14, 2015,  Had an idea for a Buzzfeed video series called Islam Explained by   and it’s just a load of women and gays screaming in terror,  —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) January 25, 2016,  NOMORE ISLAM,  —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) June 12, 2016,  He also expressed his approval at being used as the main character in a video game entitled ‘Milo Tosser,’ which involved Islamists throwing him off a building in the   due to his sexuality.  Islam and the left’s attitude towards it is also something he has been asked about as part of his ‘Dangerous Faggot Tour’ of American colleges where he outlined the reasons behind feminists actively ignoring the recent migrant attacks in Cologne.  Yiannopoulos also discussed the topic on The Rubin Report where he argued that there was little distinction between mainstream Islamic culture and terrorism for homosexuals.  However the most   response from Milo has been in reaction to the recent tragedy in Orlando, where over 50 people were killed and many more injured in an Islamic terror attack specifically targeted at the LGBT community. In response to the attacks, Yiannopoulos has argued that the left now has to choose between gay rights and protecting Islam, and in another blamed the left for making excuses for Islam rather than protecting homosexuals, which he believes was a driving factor in the success of the attack. Today, Yiannopoulos will give a press conference at ground zero in Orlando to give a short talk entitled, “Absolutely Haram: Islam versus Gays,” which was scheduled to be delivered at the University of Central Florida before they were forced to cancel the event after failing to guarantee his safety. You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at ben@yiannopoulos. net