A Black Lives Matter activist who is also a professor at California State University Los Angeles (CSULA) is threatening Breitbart News senior    Ben Shapiro and the conservative Young America’s Foundation (YAF) in advance of Shapiro’s lecture at the school on February 25. [Melina Abdullah  —   professor and chair of   Studies at CSULA  —   is a Black Lives Matter organizer. According to Lauren McCue at YAF, Abdullah took to Facebook Thursday, urging a call for action to counter Shapiro’s event. Abdullah was also recently criticized for making radical calls to #AbolishThePolice.  McCue reports that in the comments following Abdullah’s post, one person, referring to Shapiro, wrote, “‘[he] won’t be talking or lookin so nice no more’ after the event. ” She adds: Abdullah is also spreading fabricated rumors that conservatives are threatening to bring guns to the event. Despite multiple claims of such threats, CSULA YAF and Young America’s Foundation have been unable to uncover any evidence. The only threats with supporting evidence have come from leftists, including Professor Robert Donald Weide who challenged conservative students to a wrestling match, telling one commenter, “I lift, bro. ” He also cryptically threatened to “macroaggress” campus conservatives in a bizarre message on his office door. As Breitbart News previously reported, CSULA assistant professor Robert Weide tore down YAF flyers on a hallway bulletin board and called campus police as he accused a YAF staff member and conservative student affiliated with the CSULA chapter of making “death threats” to him. Weide  —   who reportedly called the student group “fascists” and “white supremacists”  —   claimed the group was trying to “intimidate” him. The day after he called the police on the YAF representatives, he placed a sign on his office door that read: “The best response to a   is  . ” YAF recently tapped Shapiro to tour college campuses around the country to confront the resurgent campus radical left. His presentation  —   “When Diversity Becomes a Problem”  —   includes issues such as “trigger warnings, diversity, and microaggressions. ”