U. S. Congressman Joaquin Castro ( ) has announced that he is considering a run against Texas Senator Ted Cruz ( ). [Castro and his brother Joaquin are both Democrats who originally hail from San Antonio, Texas. Julián Castro is the Secretary of the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.  In a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas, Senator Ted Cruz said, “Despite any record of achievement and a liberal ideology out of touch with the majority of Texans, the Castro brothers have the full support of the mainstream media and Washington establishment willing to do everything in their power to turn Texas blue. ” Cruz also added, “This November, it is critical we elect conservatives up and down the ballot in order to prevent a liberal takeover of Washington D. C. ” He emphasized, “But our opponents are already making plans to defeat us, so we cannot afford to wait to engage until 2018. ” Senator Cruz said “Everyday in the Senate, I have continued fighting for jobs, freedom, and the security of 27 million Texans and all Americans across this great country. ” His fundraising letter said “I need you by my side” “[i]n  order to stop the Castro brothers attempts to bring their liberal ideology to the halls of the U. S. Senate. ” According to The Dallas Morning News, Rep. Joaquin Castro said he was considering the run against Senator Cruz while he and his brother Julián were on CBS This Morning on Tuesday. Senator Cruz angered some Republicans last week when he declined to endorse Republican presidential party nominee Donald Trump during his speech at the GOP Convention in Cleveland, Ohio. Breitbart News reported that the Texas senator was booed when he told Republican convention goers and delegates to “vote your conscience. ” As reported by Joel B. Pollack, “Cruz gave a stirring address to the Republican National Convention on Wednesday night, but failed to endorse Donald Trump, telling Americans to ‘vote your conscience. ’” Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.