On Friday’s Fox News Channel broadcast of “The Kelly File,” host Megyn Kelly confronted former Gov. Mike Huckabee ( ) about GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump’s proposed temporary ban of Muslim refugees.  According to Kelly, had Trump’s temporary ban been in effect when the family of fallen U. S. Army Capt. Humayun Khan tried to enter the United States, the country would have been denied an American hero. Friday Breitbart Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon wrote about Megyn Kelly’s ascent at Fox News comparing her to Eve Harrington in the 1950 classic film, “All about Eve. ” Huckabee disagreed with Kelly, arguing that Trump’s temporary ban “is to make sure people are vetted” because he wants to ensure that whoever immigrates wants “to assimilate and be Americans. ” Partial transcript as follows: HUCKABEE: But the one thing that always has to be put into perspective is that Donald Trump has not said that this young man would not have been allowed into the country because this family came to America because they wanted to come and be Americans. And his son proved how much he wanted to be by the sacrifice that he made. But Donald Trump doesn’t want to make sure that every Muslim never comes to America. But he does want to make sure that when people come, whoever they are, not just Muslims but whoever they are, if they emigrate to this country, they emigrate because they want to assimilate and be Americans. This young man  —   (CROSSTALK) KELLY: That is not at all what he has proposed. That is not at all what he has proposed, Governor. He proposed a Muslim which only now has he changed which he said, he didn’t walk it back. He says he’s expanded his ban on Muslims to include Muslims from any territory that suffers terrorism. And the UAE where this little boy, at two years old, came from would be included. His parents are from Pakistan. That would be included. And so that’s the dad’s point, that his son, an American hero, would not have been here if Donald Trump had been president when they wanted to come. HUCKABEE: Well, Donald Trump, though, has clarified, Megyn, that his intent is to make sure that people are vetted. It’s not just an outright or a permanent ban, and he even said it would be a temporary suspension of immigration until we knew. Keep in mind that this was in the context of the president, President Obama, wanting to bring hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees to the country. KELLY: But that’s a different issue. That’s a different issue. HUCKABEE: No, it’s the same issue. KELLY: Syrian refugees is a different issue. That’s not the same as Trump’s Muslim ban. No, it isn’t. It’s not at all. Banning all Muslims even temporarily would have scooped up this family had they been looking to come to America under a Donald Trump presidency, and we wouldn’t have had Humayun Khan fighting for us and saving the lives of men on the battlefield in Iraq. That’s his point. HUCKABEE: I’m not taking anything away from this family, nothing from the father, nothing from the son. But I don’t think it’s accurate, nor is it fair to say that Donald Trump would have stood in the way of a family getting to America who clearly wanted to come, who could be vetted, would be vetted, and found to be wanting to assimilate and become a part of America. And it’s not just Muslims. Look, our immigration, an   policy is disastrous for our country. It’s disastrous for any country. Follow Breitbart. tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideo