Presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump flipped several of presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s attacks that she has used against him directly back onto her during his speech on Wednesday from Trump SoHo in New York City. [“Hillary Clinton wants to be President. But she doesn’t have the temperament, or, as Bernie Sanders said, the judgement, to be president,” Trump stated, attacking Clinton’s character multiple times during the speech.  “She lacks the temperament, the judgment and the competence to lead,” he again repeated, adding: In the words of a Secret Service agent posted outside the Oval Office: “She simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office  …     from the bottom of my soul, I know this to be true  …     Her leadership style  —   volcanic, impulsive  …     disdainful of the rules set for everyone else  —   hasn’t changed a bit. ” Trump’s attack on Clinton comes after Clinton has repeatedly questioned his own temperament and tone during past speeches and interviews. In fact, less than   before Trump’s speech, Clinton delivered a speech trashing Trump’s “rash and reckless temperament. ” “A few weeks ago, I said [Donald Trump’s] foreign policy proposals and reckless statements represent a danger to national security. But you might think that because he spent his life as a businessman, he’d be better prepared to handle the economy. Well, it turns out, he’s dangerous there, too,” Clinton stated during her speech Tuesday from Columbus, Ohio. “Trump would throw us back into recession,” Clinton claimed. “Just like he shouldn’t have his finger on the button, he shouldn’t have his hands on the economy. ” Trump also flipped Clinton’s allegation that he took advantage of vulnerable Americans to profit from Trump University. “Trump and his employees took advantage of vulnerable Americans, encouraging them to max out their credit cards, empty their retirement savings [and] destroy their financial futures, all while making promises they knew were false from the beginning,” Clinton stated earlier this month, attacking her rival on Trump University. Trump countered her attack earlier during his speech, alleging she took advantage of her time at the State Department to get rich by making the average American poor. “Hillary Clinton gave China millions of our best jobs, and effectively let China completely rebuild itself. In return, Hillary Clinton got rich!” Trump exclaimed. “She gets rich making you poor  …     [selling] out our workers, and our country, for Beijing,” he added.