Sharyl Attkisson talked to Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Matt Boyle Friday about her new show, Full Measure with Sheryl Attkisson, as well as current events and an extremely disturbing trend. Elites have become adept at controlling media narratives, going so far as to ostracize reporters who “veer” from a particular narrative: “It’s certainly happening here in the United States,” said Attkisson. [Asked if American media appear to be aggressively pushing a particular narrative, specifically gun control in light of the recent terrorism in Orlando, Attkisson said:  I think they’ve been pushing narratives a lot for the last couple of years in a way I haven’t seen five years ago   …     ten years ago, for sure. It’s almost like someone’s given a license at the top. It used to be done kind of subtly, but now it’s sort of encouraged. It’s almost as if everybody’s on the same page now. I think it’s inappropriate. I think that different views should be represented. It doesn’t have to be   every time that every story has to be given equal time. But over time, different views should be heard, and we just don’t hear that anymore. “I just got back from a conference in Russia, of all places, where global journalists gathered to talk about this as a trend globally, where government interests, corporate interests, special interests have learned how to use the news media,”Attkisson said, “how to use social media to control the narrative in ways, I think, more aggressively than has ever been done before. ” As for reporters, she asserted: When they veer from the narrative that’s trying to be established by whatever power that exists, they’re controversialized, they’re bullied, they’re driven out of the mainstream. It’s a global trend. Whoever is trying to control the narrative has figured this out. They’re applying similar techniques around the world, and it’s certainly happening here in the United States. Concerning public safety, Attkisson recently reported on Full Measure that Cleveland appears to be completely unprepared to host the upcoming GOP convention: “The head of policing said they’re not prepared they haven’t been trained. ” She continued: There is a complete disconnect between what the city official said is the preparation level and what the police said is the preparation level, and the head of the police unit said he’s worried his guys are going to get hurt, and they don’t have the equipment they expect. They fully think they’re going to be inundated with violent protesters because that’s what’s happened at other Trump events. So there’s concern there. The full list of Full Measure with Sharyl Attkisson shows can be found here. “There is fascinating stuff there you will not see on any other program,” said Attkisson. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. 