Donald Trump will win the 2016 presidential election if Hillary Clinton moves to the left instead of tilting toward the center, Alan Dershowitz, a staunch Democrat and emeritus law professor at Harvard University, stated in a radio interview on Sunday. [Dershowitz contended that if Clinton picks a vice presidential candidate “who represents the kind of kooky left” like Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, or Al Franken, Clinton will cement a Trump victory.  “I think Trump will win if she moves to the left,” Dershowitz said.  “If she nominates somebody like Elizabeth Warren, Al Franken, even Sanders  —   she’s not going to do that  —   but if she nominates somebody who represents the kind of kooky left, which is what many would see this as, she is going to lose the election. She can only win the election from the center. ” Dershowitz was speaking in an interview set to run in full on this reporter’s Sunday night talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and Philadelphia’s NewsTalk 990 AM. Dershowitz believes that Clinton can pick up “many, many moderate Republicans” if she moves to the center. He cited the example of George Will, the conservative commentator and columnist who announced on Sunday that he left the Republican party out of frustration with Trump and changed his voter registration to “unaffiliated. ” Stated Dershowitz: Now Clinton has a big choice ahead of her. She has to decide whether to move left to try to get the Sanders voters. That would be a terrible, terrible mistake. She has to move  to the center to try to get disaffected Republicans like Mr. Will, who has been a Republican for a hundred years and announced yesterday he has left the Republican party over Trump. And there are many, many moderate Republicans who will vote for Hillary Clinton if she moves to the middle. A lot of undecideds. They will determine the election in places like Ohio and Michigan and Pennsylvania and New Jersey and Florida. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.