The arc of history apparently bends towards the election of President Donald Trump, and the New Yorker’s editor is not pleased. [In a Nov. 9 editorial, titled “An American Tragedy,” the editor wrote:  The election of Donald Trump to the Presidency is nothing less than a tragedy for the American republic, a tragedy for the Constitution, and a triumph for the forces, at home and abroad, of nativism, authoritarianism, misogyny, and racism. Trump’s shocking victory, his ascension to the Presidency, is a sickening event in the history of the United States and liberal democracy. On January 20, 2017, we will bid farewell to the first   President —  a man of integrity, dignity, and generous spirit —  and witness the inauguration of a con who did little to spurn endorsement by forces of xenophobia and white supremacy. It is impossible to react to this moment with anything less than revulsion and profound anxiety  …      All along, Trump seemed like a twisted caricature of every rotten reflex of the radical right. That he has prevailed, that he has won this election, is a crushing blow to the spirit it is an event that will likely cast the country into a period of economic, political, and social uncertainty that we cannot yet imagine.  Remnick suggests ordinary Americans deserve blame the Trump. That the electorate has, in its plurality, decided to live in Trump’s world of vanity, hate, arrogance, untruth, and recklessness, his disdain for democratic norms, is a fact that will lead, inevitably, to all manner of national decline and suffering, In the coming days, commentators will attempt to normalize this event. They will try to soothe their readers and viewers with thoughts about the “innate wisdom” and “essential decency” of the American people. They will downplay the virulence of the nationalism displayed, the cruel decision to elevate a man who rides in a   airliner but who has staked his claim with the populist rhetoric of blood and soil  …     Trump ran his campaign sensing the feeling of dispossession and anxiety among millions of voters —  white voters, in the main. And many of those voters —  not all, but many —  followed Trump because they saw that this slick performer, once a relative cipher when it came to politics, a marginal   buffoon in the jokescape of eighties and nineties New York, was more than willing to assume their resentments, their fury, their sense of a new world that conspired against their interests  …     Fascism is not our future —  it cannot be we cannot allow it to be so —  but this is surely the way fascism can begin  …     Remnick endorsed the presidential candidate who helped his peers maintain their power and wealth   Hillary Clinton was a flawed candidate but a resilient, intelligent, and competent leader, who never overcame her image among millions of voters as untrustworthy and entitled. Some of this was the result of her ingrown instinct for suspicion, developed over the years after one bogus “scandal” after another. And yet, somehow, no matter how long and committed her earnest public service, she was less trusted than Trump, a   man who cheated his customers, investors, and contractors a hollow man whose countless statements and behavior reflect a human being of dismal qualities —  greedy, mendacious, and bigoted. His level of egotism is rarely exhibited outside of a clinical environment. Remnick ends his article, not with a bang, but with a hollow whimper about the declining power of the establishment media. Surely such a cruel and retrograde figure could succeed among some voters, but how could he win? Surely, Breitbart News, a site of vile conspiracies, could not become for millions a source of news and mainstream opinion  …     the information loop had been shattered. On Facebook, articles in the traditional,   press look the same as articles from the conspiratorial   media. Spokesmen for the unspeakable now have access to huge audiences. This was the cauldron, with so much misogynistic language, that helped to demean and destroy Clinton. The   press was the purveyor of constant lies, propaganda, and conspiracy theories that Trump used as the oxygen of his campaign. Steve Bannon, a pivotal figure at Breitbart, was his propagandist and campaign manager  …     But despair is no answer. To combat authoritarianism, to call out lies, to struggle honorably and fiercely in the name of American ideals —  that is what is left to do. That is all there is to do. Read it all here. Bonus video on the page, where he describes Breitbart News as a “a hugely influential organ” at 12:50. 