Marcus Hamilton, Winthrop Eaton and Michael Perry were each convicted of   murder and sentenced to death in Louisiana more than 25 years ago. But all three men are still alive. And all three have been living in solitary confinement for a quarter century or more. Lawyers representing the three men filed a federal   lawsuit this week that seeks to overturn a prison policy that automatically and permanently places prisoners sentenced to death in Louisiana in solitary confinement. They are kept there for the length of their incarceration, a period that can stretch on for decades. There are currently 71 prisoners who have been sentenced to death in the state and are being held in solitary confinement at the state penitentiary at Angola, a former slave plantation. But Louisiana executes only a small minority of death row inmates  —   fewer than 12 percent over the last 30 years, Nicholas J. Trenticosta, one of the lawyers for the plaintiffs, said. The death row inmates at Angola spend 23 hours a day in windowless concrete cells that measure 8 by 10 feet. They are allowed to leave the cell for one hour each day to shower, make phone calls or walk along the tiered walkway beside their cells. Three times a week, they can use that hour to go outside to sit in a small outdoor cage. They cannot participate in the work or study programs that are open to other prisoners. With the exception of prison personnel, they are not allowed to have physical contact with another human being. “Solitary confinement and these isolation conditions are cruel and unusual punishment,” Mr. Trenticosta said. “Our clients deserve to be treated better. ” Betsy Ginsberg, the director of the civil rights clinic at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in New York and another lawyer for the plaintiffs, said that “a lot, if not most” of the states that have the death penalty house their death row inmates in solitary confinement. There are notable exceptions, she said, including California, which has one of the largest prison systems and death row populations in the country, and Missouri. A 2013 study by the American Civil Liberties Union found that more than 3, 000 death row inmates in 35 states were held in solitary confinement. “We see Angola as a symbol of a nationwide problem,” said Pieter Van Tol, one of the plaintiffs lawyers. “This is not isolated to Angola. This is a stark symbol and a   facility. We have a group of people there who are really suffering, but this is nationwide in scope as far as the problem goes. ” A lawsuit challenging those conditions has been filed in at least one other state, Virginia, where last week a federal appeals court allowed it to go forward despite recent improvements in the treatment of prisoners. According to the Louisiana plaintiffs’ lawyers, who filed the suit on Wednesday, 56 of the 71 inmates currently on death row have been held in solitary confinement for more than 10 years, 45 have been in solitary confinement for more than 15 years and 20 have been held in solitary confinement for more than 20 years. As for the three named plaintiffs in the case, Mr. Hamilton has been held in solitary confinement for 25 years, Mr. Eaton for 30 years and Mr. Perry for 31 years. Ken Pastorick, a spokesman for the Louisiana Department of Corrections, declined to comment on the lawsuit or the department’s policy on solitary confinement. The damaging effects of prolonged solitary confinement on the mental and physical health of prisoners have been well established. Craig Haney, a social psychologist who conducted interviews with solitary confinement inmates as part of a lawsuit against Pelican Bay State Prison in California, wrote in 2015 that even those with no history of mental illness were engaged in a “constant, ongoing struggle to maintain their sanity. ” “These conditions predictably can impair the psychological functioning of the prisoners who are subjected to them,” he wrote. “For some prisoners, these impairments can be permanent and  . ”