Dr. Alveda King, director of Civil Rights for the Unborn and niece of legendary civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is leading a human rights prayer rally Saturday afternoon at the Planned Parenthood located in Washington, D. C.[African American leaders are pushing “100 No More,” a   message. 100 No More is in response to Planned Parenthood’s recent 100th anniversary.  Dr. Ben Carson has described Planned Parenthood’s founder Margaret Sanger as a “eugenicist” who wanted to eliminate black Americans. “Planned Parenthood, as you know, was founded by Margaret Sanger.   …     Margaret Sanger was a eugenicist. She believed that people like me should be eliminated, or kept under control,” Carson stated, later explaining that when he said “people like me,” he meant “the black race. ” A press release announced the   event. “Blacks make up not quite 13% of the U. S. population, but represent over 30% of all abortions,” stated King, adding: Planned Parenthood has built a profitable enterprise largely on aborting black babies. This is even more troubling when you consider that they receive over half a billion dollars a year from the federal government. I am honored to join my voice with those who will be praying, 100 No More. The senior pastor at Forestville New Redeemer Baptist Church, Rev. Nathaniel Thomas, said Planned Parenthood has aborted more than seven million babies, and enough is enough. “One out of every 3 of those babies happens to be Black. Enough is enough,” Thomas stated. “We are going to pray for mothers and fathers and the unborn babies. We are also going to pray for the Planned Parenthood staff that they see the value of every life, especially the life of the unborn. ” Delyon Gigger, founder of Good Ground Good Life, which is a   in Washington, D. C. that promotes a healthy lifestyle for inner city youth, said Planned Parenthood has been deceiving the black community. “Planned Parenthood has deceived us for far too long,” Gigger stated. “They claim to be here to help the black community. In reality, they have only destroyed. The best way to deal with deception is to shine light on it and pray. ” Concerned Women for America (CWA) America’s largest public policy organization for women focused on promoting Biblical principles, is also taking part in the 100 No More Movement. “We are honored that Dr. Alveda King and other African American Christian leaders are partnering with us in the 100 No More Movement,” stated CWA President and CEO Penny Young Nance. “This movement is dedicated to protecting the human rights of the unborn and offering real tangible support to their moms and dads for choosing life. ” The prayer rally takes place from noon to 2 p. m. Eastern Saturday.