DALLAS  —   The women’s Final Four is a showcase in search of a proper audience. In recent years, the N. C. A. A. has explored various options for rejuvenating its most popular women’s sporting event, seeking to counter indifferent attendance at this marquee championship. A study in 2013 offered several bold ideas, like holding the Women’s Final Four at the same site as the men’s event, or even moving it to Europe, China, Russia or Qatar. Another, less radical, proposal was to return the Final Four to a   format, from  . The new schedule was adopted for this year, and so on Friday night, the national semifinals took place at American Airlines Center here, with South Carolina defeating Stanford,   in the first game before Mississippi State upset Connecticut,   in the second. Capacity crowds were expected for the two semifinals and the final, the N. C. A. A. said. With weekend games, fans do not have to miss a considerable part of the workweek to attend the Final Four, as they did when the championship game was played on a Tuesday night from 2003 to 2016. (The men’s Final Four continues to have a   format.) Also, some believed the women’s final had begun to feel anticlimactic when it was played a night after the men’s final. That seemed especially true last year, when Villanova defeated North Carolina on a   shot the day before UConn swamped Syracuse by 31 points. “The reason we moved to   was based on a lot of surveys and people saying, from a fan experience, that having to take that whole additional week off when we played on Tuesday was difficult,” said Rick Nixon, the N. C. A. A.’s associate director of championships and a spokesman for the organization. “To be in a   situation here in Dallas on Friday and Sunday, I think it’s worked out. ” In effect, the N. C. A. A. seems to have put a higher premium on a full arena than expanded television ratings. Friday’s semifinals were to be broadcast on ESPN2, competing with an N. B. A. doubleheader on ESPN featuring San   City and Golden  . Sunday’s championship game will not have its accustomed   slot on ESPN, either. Instead, it will start at 6 p. m. Eastern time, ahead of the network’s opening night coverage of Major League Baseball, featuring the World Series champion Chicago Cubs at rival St. Louis. “We’re anxious to see where the ratings play out,” Nixon said. “It might not be all bad. ” ESPN said it would have preferred to retain the   format. Kara Lawson, a commentator, told The Hartford Courant that the move to ESPN2 of Friday’s semifinals, usually broadcast on ESPN, was a “big bummer for exposure of the game. ” Carol Stiff, vice president for women’s sports programming at ESPN, was more sanguine. An arena at capacity is “good for the game,” she said, and in reference to the women’s final, she added, “I think we might pull in more numbers on a Sunday. ” The final will be promoted as part of a “Super Sunday,” Stiff said. “From the crowning of a champion to handing it over to the Cubs, it’s a pretty big day. ” Not everyone was pleased with the time slots for Friday’s semifinals. The tipoff for   Carolina was set for 7:30 p. m. while UConn was set to play Mississippi State at closer to 10 p. m. The Huskies draw the biggest ratings in women’s college basketball, but Coach Geno Auriemma said he was not happy that his team would have to wait around all day to play. “I’ve said this in the past  —   TV and what’s going on in the actual arena don’t go together,” he said on Thursday. He added: “We have to figure out how to work together, make it work for the   because we always use that term, you know. What’s best for the  ? Not playing at 10 at night. ” Another underlying issue in women’s college basketball is the debate about whether the dominance of UConn  —   with its   winning streak entering Friday, and its four consecutive national championships  —   is good or bad for the development of the sport. On the face of it, it might seem absurd to claim that sustained excellence was somehow detrimental. While the women’s regionals had their lowest average attendance in 20 years, according to The Associated Press, with an average of 4, 719 fans at each game, UConn sold out both the regional semifinal and the final in Bridgeport, Conn. drawing announced crowds of 8, 978. In February, when UConn won its 100th consecutive game, against South Carolina, it drew the highest television rating of the season, to that point, on ESPN2 for any college game, men’s or women’s. “I think they’re great for the game,” Stiff said of Auriemma and the Huskies. “Every time they’re on, people are tuning in. They want to know, what is special about this team? What’s in the sauce? Can he coach men? What’s the magic in the potion? This was supposed to be his down year. ”