In the wake of the seemingly endless terror attacks by migrants and Muslims in France and Germany, Breitbart London    Raheem Kassam has slammed open border activists. [Mr. Kassam confirmed he has “exactly” been warning that “following the mistakes of Europe will result in an American catastrophe and people will die” when presenter Sean Hannity asked him about his stance on his radio show.  “That is what I said about what’s happened in Germany, and we warned about it last year we warned about it in Belgium we’ve warned about it in France, and it is coming to fruition,” he said. “Let me tell you something: it’s very hard to fight for social justice if you’re dead,” Mr. Kassam added, slamming powerful liberal open borders activists such as George Soros who encouraged the “migrant crisis” from the Middle East.  “And the most galling element of it,” he continued, “is that we have the BBC, and the New York Times, and Sky News, and all of these other guys who are basically saying: ‘well, a backpack killed these people, a machete killed them’. “No. These are Syrian migrants who have faked being refugees. Some of them have been turned down in terms of asylum status, and they happen to have   knowledge and explosives at the same time? “I want to know how these people got into the country and how they weren’t screened out, when their asylum application failed, and immediately deported,” he said, asking: “Why was this man still in the country?” Some shocking allegations were also made on the show, pertaining to the possible Islamist infiltration of U. S. authorities. “I agree with [Richard Higgins] that there is an NGO presence that is deeply entrenched in the U. S. establishment,” said Mr. Kassam after Mr. Higgins claimed that America’s domestic   strategies and part of its foreign policy are influenced by the Muslim Brotherhood. Mr. Higgins is a former leader inside the Department of Defense who managed programmes at the Combating Terrorism and Technical Support Office (CTTSO) and Irregular Warfare Section, and was appearing alongside Mr. Kassam on the show. Mr. Hannity had asked why President Obama is insisting 10, 000 “refugees” from the Middle East are brought immediately to America, and why Democratic nominee Hilary Clinton advocates increasing numbers by “500 per cent”. “Why are they so willing to gamble with the lives of Americans considering this has now happened at least a dozen times?” he asked. “I think that they’re so keen to have them coming in here because their Muslim Brotherhood advisers are telling them that is best for the West,” said Mr. Higgins. “We see Muslim Brotherhood influence through NGO organisations as well as affiliated with United Nations elements on the ground in Syria [and] on the front end of the vetting process in Syria  —   which is why you see 99 per cent of the people coming out are actually Muslims, not the Christians, not the ones being most persecuted,” he said. “They’re on the back end here in the United States, coordinating their reception  …     once they arrive both in Europe and then here in the United States,” he added.