On December 20, the BBC pointed out that the “traditional” image of the American gun buyer is shifting under Donald Trump even liberals are making gun purchases. [In fact, the “Liberal Gun Club,” which is “an actual club” with nine chapter and members in all 50 states,” says it saw a “huge” increase in interest once Trump was elected, as well as a subsequent surge in membership.  But the BBC suggests that “ ” are not buying guns for the same reasons that people on the “right wing” side of the political spectrum might. In fact, BBC suggests “ ” are buying guns to protect themselves from   and to prepare for “the collapse of society. ” BBC interviewed a    transgender individual named Clara who lives in California. Recalling growing up in the Midwest, Clara states, “The folks that had guns were seen as hicks [or] culturally different. ” Because of this, Clara says, “I really didn’t expect to be thinking about purchasing a gun. It was something that my father did and I rolled my eyes at him. ” But Clara asserts, “Trump’s election has mobilized a lot of the far right and given them hope,” and this means it is time to buy a gun. “Things are already escalating and they will continue to do so and me not engaging or being prepared to defend my friends by force   …     isn’t going to stop people from being attacked or harassed. ” Perhaps Clara missed Donald Trump’s   Pulse comments, wherein he referred to the victims of the gay nightclub as “great people” and argued that any among them with concealed carry permits should have been allowed to be armed in the club to defend themselves and others. As things stood, Orlando Pulse was a   zone, and the only person armed was the Islamist who entered the building intent to kill as many as he could. Gwendolyn Patton, spokesperson for the Pink Pistols, an LGBT gun rights group, gets it. She said: There are people who have professed to carrying a gun now because Trump made them feel unsafe. I think their fears are groundless but I can’t make them not be afraid, so whatever they need to do to feel safer, I don’t have a problem with that as long as they do it responsibly. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.