PLYMOUTH, Mich.  —   The United States women’s hockey team is going from one tough battle off the ice to a big challenge on it. On Tuesday, the players reached an agreement for wages and increased support from U. S. A. Hockey, the sport’s domestic governing body, after threatening to boycott the 2017 world championship, which begins here on Friday. The landmark deal means that the United States will have a lineup of the best American players at its disposal. But the tense wrangling over the past two weeks has left the team, the   defending champions, with only two days to prepare for its opening game  —   a   clash with archrival Canada on Friday night. Meghan Duggan, the American captain, acknowledged that the short turnaround between   was not ideal, but she said the team had been energized by the wage fight. “What we just went through is just going to elevate our game that much more,” said Duggan, who led the push for more financial, marketing and training assistance from U. S. A. Hockey. “I’m so excited to carry the momentum into this week and kick off the tournament. ” The team’s first skate on Wednesday evening, she added, “was electric, very energetic, awesome practice. ” Monique   said groups of players have been training and skating on their own to maintain conditioning and competitiveness since the planned boycott was announced two weeks ago. “We only have two days to prepare, but we’ve been doing everything at home to be ready, so we’re not that concerned about only having two days together as a team,” she said. “We’ve been preparing all year for this tournament. ” Robb Stauber, who has been head coach of the team for just four weeks, said he used part of the team’s limited practice time to focus on critical situations, like power plays and penalty kills. “I’ve never faced a situation like this, but our players are resilient,” he said. “They showed that in their stance on what they believed in. We expect them to carry that resilience over to the ice. ” The national team players had been negotiating with U. S. A. Hockey for the past 15 months, seeking more financial assistance that would allow them to support themselves while training to compete at a   level. Many work two or more jobs while trying to fit in training camps and workouts. They sought, and received, travel and insurance provisions that equal those of the men’s team. Previously, U. S. A. Hockey gave the women $1, 000 a month in the six months leading up to Olympic tournaments. Now, each player will be guaranteed at least $2, 000 per month   and will be eligible for more generous performance bonuses. The women also pushed U. S. A. Hockey to put more effort into promoting the game among women and girls. The organization spends around $3. 5 million a year on the National Team Development Program, which grooms elite teenage boys to play college, professional and Olympic hockey. This year’s world championship is being played at U. S. A. Hockey Arena, perhaps the starkest example of the support the organization gives to teenage boys. U. S. A. Hockey acquired the rink in 2015 as a home for the development program, which fields two teams of players under the age of 18. Among its alumni are some of the top American players in the N. H. L. including Patrick Kane, Jack Eichel, Auston Matthews and Phil Kessel, the older brother of Amanda Kessel, a star on the women’s team. The rink includes a lavish training facility, with an indoor track, a weight room, a skating treadmill and a shooting cage  —   amenities few college teams can boast. “This is a pretty great facility for the N. T. D. P. program to be playing in,” Jocelyne   said. “We want the   girls and the younger generation to have a home like this and to be able to play in a place like this. That’s what we strive for. This is obviously a great facility for the boys’ teams and hopefully in the future for some girls’ teams. ” The players’ stand drew support from N. H. L. players as well as representatives from several other top sports leagues, celebrities and Billie Jean King, who fought for equal pay for women’s tennis players long before any of the women’s hockey players were born. A group of United States senators also issued a letter calling on U. S. A. Hockey to reach an agreement to ensure that the women’s team received equitable resources. “It was amazing the people we heard from,”   said. “When you get senators writing a letter, you know it’s become a big deal. ” U. S. A. Hockey unsuccessfully attempted to recruit a replacement team from the professional, college and high school ranks. Duggan and other national team members made dozens of phone calls and sent emails and texts asking players to decline to join a replacement team. While Tuesday’s agreement boosted the national team, Wednesday brought a fresh reminder of the challenges that remain for women’s hockey. The University of North Dakota, where the Lamoureux sisters played and worked as members of the coaching staff, announced that it was dropping its women’s hockey program. Eight North Dakota players participated in the 2014 Winter Olympics. “Tuesday was a big step forward and Wednesday, for my sister and me and girls in the Grand Forks region, it was two steps backward,”   said. “There’s so many girls in that area, that team is the only team they have access to, so it’s really unfortunate. ” For now, though, there is work to be done on the ice. Friday’s game will match the two giants of women’s hockey. The United States and Canada have met in the final of all 18 world championships that have been played since the International Ice Hockey Federation organized the first tournament in 1990. The United States has won six of the last seven world championships, although Canada has won 10 over all. Canada has four Olympic gold medals in women’s hockey to the Americans’ one. “We love kicking off the tournament against them the atmosphere is going to be great,”   said. “The last few weeks, I think we’re a more cohesive group. There’s 100 percent trust in every player. These last two weeks was kind of its own team building. ” Kessel said the Americans were fired up to face Canada. “Every time it’s a lot of pride and it’s a hard game,” she said, “and it’s the most fun game. ”