Students at the University of California, Irvine, are planning to distribute baby pacifiers to a liberal student group who is planning a “safe space” event ahead of Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos’ upcoming visit to campus. [According to a press release by the UCI College Republicans, the student group has plans to combat political correctness by distributing pacifiers at a safe space event that was organized by the administration in response to Yiannopoulos’ upcoming stop of “The Dangerous Faggot Tour” which is scheduled for Thursday, June 2.   The statement from the UCI College Republicans cited President Obama’s 2015 criticism of campus coddling culture in which he condemned students for rejecting texts and speaker that they find offensive. “I don’t agree that you, when you become students at colleges, have to be coddled and protected from different points of views,” Obama said in a town hall event in Des Moines, Iowa in 2015. The entire statement from the UCI College Republicans can be read below.  UCI  —   Members of the UCI College Republicans are aggressively combating “Political Correctness” by distributing 100 infant baby pacifiers at a school Administration directed “safe zone training” event that was created in response to the club bringing conservative speaker Milo Yiannopoulos to campus. “Leftists have killed Traditional Liberalism on American campuses.  This new hyper form of Political Correctness has transformed college students into petulant 6 year olds who, when challenged with an opposing point of view, throw temper tantrums or lock themselves in their rooms to suck their thumbs, “ said Mitchell Stern, UCI College Republican Treasurer  “These so called Safe Spaces are an anathema to free expression and are a not so vailed form of ‘totalitarian group think’ where ideological deviation is not tolerated and outside opinions are to be destroyed, not challenged.   Even President Obama acknowledged that Political Correctness on campuses are creating “coddled students. ” said Robert Petrosyan, UCI College Republican Chairman Emeritus, “I’ve heard of some college campuses where they don’t want to have a guest speaker who is too conservative. Or they don’t want to read a book if it has language that is offensive to African Americans, or somehow sends a demeaning signal towards women,” “I’ve got to tell you, I don’t agree with that either. I don’t agree that you, when you become students at colleges, have to be coddled and protected from different points of views. ” President Obama, September 2015   Members of the club will be passing out Gerber Baby Pacifiers with labels attached ‘I survived! Milo Tour 2016’  “Their event starts at 5:00 and ours starts at 7:00 we want to liberate our fellow students from the clutches of totalitarian political correctness and earnestly invite them to attend, listen and challenge our speaker with civil debate.  For those who are too timid or have been mentally incapacitated to engage in debate we are giving them baby pacifiers to help them cope with the appearance of a conservative speaker on campus,” added Carl Olson, UCI College Republican Social Chair.  Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or on Facebook. You can email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com