In a ceremony known as “The Consumption of Mary,” Satanists in Oklahoma are planning to use Sulphur, menstrual blood and pages from the Koran to “corrupt” a statue of the Virgin Mary. [The ticketed “Black Mass” is to take place at the Civic Center Music Hall in Oklahoma City on August 15, which is one of the most important “Solemnities” in the Catholic calendar, the Feast of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin, which celebrates what Catholics believe was the event where Jesus’s mother was taken bodily into Heaven at the end of her life on earth.  The celebrant of the Black Mass is “Dastur” Adam Daniels of the “Church of Ahriman” is also a register sex offender, a fact confirmed by Oklahoma Gazette reporter Ben Luschen, who has interviewed Daniels. The “Church of Ahriman” practices what Daniels’ calls theistic Satanism. It is hard to parse the teachings of this church, but a website for the “Church of Ahriman” claims “Ahriman is God” and that “Angra Mainyu (Ahriman) is the God of Hell, Earth, and this Universe. ” “Angra Mainyu” is also a deity associated with the religion of Zoroastrianism. The website says, “The truest form of freedom is brought about by evil speech (blaspheme). ” The ceremony on August 15 is intended “to illustrate black magic and [Daniels’s] church’s teachings and distinguish them from atheistic Satanism. ” In the “Consumption of Mary” her corrupted statue is placed in the center of a “Solomonic triangle, which entraps her. Celebrants dance   around the statue before a spirit severs the statue’s head, unleashing a hellmouth, or opening to hell. Inside the statue is an actual pig’s heart, Daniels said. After the statue has been smashed, a priestess pulls the heart out of the rubble and eats it, thus ‘consuming’ Mary and ending the ritual. ” Daniels has crossed swords with the Oklahoma Christian community for years. He founded his “church” in 2001 and had a very public dispute with the Catholic Church in 2014 when he held what appears to be his first public “Black Mass. ” Archbishop Paul Coakley inspired a national protest against the event and called it “a satanic inversion and distortion of the most sacred beliefs not only of Catholics, but of all Christians. ” For that event, Daniels’s group pilfered a consecrated host, the unleavened bread Catholics believe is turned literally into the body and blood of Jesus Christ during the Mass. Coakley sued the group who then promptly returned the consecrated host. Daniels told reporter Ben Luschen, “There’s a certain element of truth, there’s a certain element of beauty in the darkness that you don’t find in the light. It’s cold and stark it’s right up in your face, and if you can’t deal with it psychologically, you’re going to have repercussions. But that doesn’t mean there’s still not a stark beauty in the darkness. ” The event is not only tickets but tickets are not free. To get in you have to pay $37. 50. According to Luschen, Archbishop Coakley has been silent about the new “Black Mass. ” While the 2014 “Black Mass” drew national attention and protests from Catholics, it will be interesting to see what the Muslims will do when they find out Daniels intends to burn pages of the Koaran. What many do not know is that Muslims hold the Virgin Mary in very high regard. She is the only woman mentioned in the Koran that dedicates an entire chapter to her.