KABUL, Afghanistan  —   Officials in Afghanistan said on Sunday they were investigating claims that at least nine civilians, including six children, had been killed when Afghan and coalition forces blew up a Taliban weapons depot in southern Helmand Province. Omar Zwak, a spokesman for the governor of Helmand, said troops on a joint military operation in the Malgir area of Gereshk district, just outside the provincial capital of Lashkar Gah, had found the cache of munitions late on Saturday. “They set up explosives to detonate the cache, and it damaged the house where the civilians were staying,” Mr. Zwak said. Capt. Bill Salvin, a spokesman for the coalition in Afghanistan, said on Sunday: “We have seen the reports of civilian casualties in southern Helmand last night. We take all allegations of civilian casualties seriously, and we will convene an inquiry into this allegation. ” Gen. Dawlat Waziri, a spokesman for the Afghan Defense Ministry, said investigators had been sent to Helmand to investigate the claims. The owner of the house that collapsed, Haji Mohammed Sadiq, said it was being used by a family that had been taking care of his farm for him since he moved to Lashkar Gah, to escape the fighting. The concrete building next door housed a clinic before the Taliban moved in, Mr. Sadiq said. “Last night, Afghan forces, along with foreign forces, raided the clinic around 11:30 p. m. and arrested some 40 to 50 villagers, and took them to the desert, and only left women and children in the houses,” he said. “They put explosives over the clinic and detonated it, and the mud house next to the clinic collapsed. ” Mr. Sadiq said that he rushed to the scene in the morning, but that the police had not initially let any civilians near the collapsed house. When they were finally allowed to do so, he said, they pulled nine bodies from the debris, including two older adults, their    and six grandchildren. One child was unaccounted for, Mr. Sadiq said. Of the family, he said, “the only person who survived is the son who had gone to Herat Province for work. ” Civilians have continued to bear the brunt of much of the violence from both sides amid the intensifying conflict in Helmand, with many repeatedly displaced by the fighting. According to local residents, in February, American bombings in the Sangin district killed at least 22 civilians. The NATO mission to Afghanistan said it was investigating the deaths. The war is expected to escalate further this spring as the portion of Helmand controlled by the Afghan government continues to shrink. According to provincial leaders, the Taliban now hold seven of the 14 districts that make up the province, the country’s largest in land area. The Afghan government fully controls only two districts and the provincial capital the remaining five are contested, with the government generally controlling only the district centers.