North Carolina, whose heartbreaking loss in the N. C. A. A. tournament championship game a year ago provided one of the game’s indelible moments  —   the   shot by Villanova’s Kris Jenkins  —   avenged that defeat with a win over Gonzaga,   on Monday to claim its sixth national title. The No.   Tar Heels returned many of the players who left the court in Houston devastated a year ago. But at University of Phoenix Stadium, they could finally bask in the confetti that rained down from the rafters. They beat Gonzaga, another No. 1 seed, which was making its first appearance in the Final Four. The Bulldogs ( ) representatives of a small Jesuit school in Spokane, Wash. have never won an N. C. A. A. championship in any team sport. The men’s basketball team has been a constant presence in the N. C. A. A. tournament for nearly two decades, but this year  —   with only one loss coming into Monday  —   was arguably their strongest team to date. It was a sloppily played game, and at times poorly officiated, as the referees seemed to miss several calls in the second half. “It was an ugly game,” said North Carolina Coach Roy Williams, who won his third national title with the Tar Heels. “I don’t think either team played well offensively. The magnitude of the game had a lot to do with it. ” U. N. C. finished the sloppy game in decidedly unsloppy fashion, going on an   run that was keyed by the defense. With Gonzaga down three points with 22 seconds left, the Bulldogs’ Nigel   drove the lane but was blocked by U. N. C. big man Kennedy Meeks. A quick outlet and a dunk by Justin Jackson and Carolina had its title. North Carolina got 22 points from Joel Berry II, but as a team shot badly: just 36 percent, with Jackson going 6 for 19 and 0 for 9 from 3 points. Berry was the only Tar Heel to sink a 3: he had four of them. Gonzaga also struggled, shooting 34 percent. Big man Przemek Karnowski was   with most of those shots coming from close to the basket. His errant touch was exacerbated by the absence from most of the game of freshman   Zach Collins, who had foul trouble throughout and eventually fouled out. Gonzaga was led by 15 from   but he was   from the floor. The Tar Heels ( ) tried not to make the year all about redemption, even though the players had a   group text message chat titled “Redemption. ” Even though point guard Nate Britt, whose   Jenkins, hit the shot that crumbled Carolina, would not bring up the game with him. Even though Coach Roy Williams had purposely avoided watching the replay of that shot all year. They tried to cast this season in a new light, even though most of the players who gathered in Williams’s home on Aug. 22 were the same players he had in the postgame locker room that night in Houston when he stood before them and addressed them, struggling to find words. “I felt so inadequate,” Williams recalled, the loquacious   reduced to a mumble. And so, even though only seven other teams have rebounded from a   loss to return the title game, and even though their loss in last year’s final was uniquely devastating, here were the Tar Heels, none the worse for wear. Monday’s game featured a quick pace at the outset, which typically would favor North Carolina. But the Bulldogs focused on its transition defense to slow down the Tar Heels, limiting North Carolina to just 2   points in the first half. But the Tar Heels, who shot just 30. 6 percent in the first half, missing 11 of their first 13   attempts, still managed to go into halftime trailing by just three,  . From there they stayed close in a tight game, ultimately securing redemption. Here’s how the Tar Heels won their sixth title: North Carolina led   with 15:33 left to go in the first half in Phoenix. Both teams struggled to make buckets in the early going, with big Gonzaga center Przemek Karnowski missing two from close range. Just before the first time out though, the teams traded   with Josh Perkins of Gonzaga and Joel Berry of North Carolina sinking them. Perkins led all scorers with 5 points. Marc Tracy: Interesting that Gonzaga started with just one true big man, Przemek Karnowski. North Carolina is best down low, with Kennedy Meeks and Isaiah Hicks, both of whom are in the game. And Gonzaga has a stellar second giant to go along with the    Karnowski in   freshman Zach Collins, who entered the game after just three minutes. In the semifinal win over South Carolina, Gonzaga looked at its best when both were on the floor. My guess is that Gonzaga wants to limit Collins’s minutes, at least in the first half, to ensure he doesn’t get into foul trouble. Another 3 by Josh Perkins and a Johnathan Williams jumper gave Gonzaga a   lead with 10 minutes left. Perkins was the top scorer with 8, but everyone was getting involved in the fast paced,    game. Five Bulldogs and seven Tar Heels have scored. A Joel Berry   and a basket by Justin Jackson pulled the Tar Heels back to within 2. A surprise early stat. Though North Carolina is one of the best rebounding teams in the country, it is being outrebounded by Gonzaga so far,  . Gonzaga held a   lead over North Carolina at halftime of the national championship game. It was a lively game, with plenty of action, but neither team shot especially well. Gonzaga was 12 for 30, while North Carolina made 11 of 35 shots, including   from   range. Przemek Karnowski, one of Gonzaga’s   looked a little lost, shooting   all from close range, after getting a finger in the eye in the semifinal. But the other big man, freshman Zach Collins, a possible top 10 N. B. A. draft pick, came off the bench to chip in two baskets and four rebounds. Guard Josh Perkins of Gonzaga led all scorers, with 13. Gonzaga outrebounded the best rebounding team in the country,  . North Carolina was led by 9 from Joel Berry II, whose ankle injuries had caused pregame concern. Marc Tracy: Not to harp on this theme, but it’s the battle of the bigs. North Carolina’s Kennedy Meeks had a couple great moves on Gonzaga’s Przemek Karnowski. But overall it is a battle that favors Gonzaga, if they can keep their guys on the floor. Their two favorites, Karnowski and Zach Collins, both have two fouls, though, which is why relatively untested freshman Killian Tillie has played five minutes (after playing seven total last game). Beyond that, I think the rim has been unkind to both teams. U. N. C. point guard Joel Berry II clearly is not limited by his ankle. I sense that Gonzaga is content to let U. N. C. take very deep shots, and so far the Zags have not been punished, with U. N. C. making just 15. 4 percent of their  . If that number regresses to the mean significantly, U. N. C. could run away with it. But I’m betting we go down to the wire on this one. Joel Berry made an easy bucket off a steal, Justin Jackson made two free throws, and North Carolina reclaimed the lead in the first 35 seconds of the second half. It was the start of a good stretch for North Carolina, who rode an   run to start the half. Gonzaga missed three straight shots in the lane, prompting Coach Mark Few to call a   timeout. Zach Collins made a   play after a pass from Przemek Karnowski, then Jordan Mathews hit a   to regain the lead for Gonzaga with 16   minutes left. But Collins picked up his fourth foul just afterward. That will put extra pressure to perform on the Zags’ other big man, Karnowski, who is   from the floor. The game swung back and forth, with neither team able to pull away. A highlight for Gonzaga was Karnowski lunging to the basket and finally scoring his first points of the game. North Carolina was staying close despite a poor game by its biggest star, Justin Jackson, He was shooting 3 for 13, missing all seven of his  . Also struggling was Gonzaga star Nigel   shooting 2 for 10. It remains to be seen which team will win the game or whether North Carolina will cover the   line. But “under” bettors are sitting pretty. Barring several overtimes, the game is likely to fall well under the 155   total. Though Gonzaga in particular is known for its defense, sloppy play and poor shooting by both teams is the main culprit for the low score. Notably, Przemek Karnowski, who shot 60 percent this season, is  . Gonzaga has gone seven minutes without a basket. With seven minutes remaining, the officials have called 21 fouls in the second half alone (39 total) slowing the game and ruining both teams’ chances for momentum. A couple of the N. B. A. ’s elite have noticed. The national championship game, tightly, if sloppily played throughout, seemed to be coming down to the wire. With a little less than 2 minutes to play, the score is tied,  . Both teams made their share of mistakes, and neither could pull away with under two minutes to play. Ultimately, the Tar Heels made the big shots and the big stops when they needed to. Late in 1992, when he was asked to submit samples for a new theme song for CBS’s coverage of the N. C. A. A. men’s basketball tournament, Bob Christianson did what he usually does. He paced his small basement studio. He washed dishes and scrubbed the floor. He ironed clothes. His best melodies have often crystallized better away from the piano. “If I write at the piano,” he said, “my fingers tend to go where they are used to going. ” This time, his fingers would not arrive at the eight notes that would come to define March Madness for nearly a   until he formulated the right groove  —   a groove inspired by the percussive heartbeat of the tournament itself: a dribbling basketball. Read the complete story about the origin of the March Madness theme song here. It wasn’t long after the Michigan men’s basketball team won the Big Ten tournament this month when the moment arrived for the Wolverines to claim their polyester scalp: to bring out the ladders and let each player, coach and staff member take part in cutting down the nets. When the assistant coach Billy Donlon’s turn came, he made his snip, retreated down the ladder and handed off the scissors to his fellow assistant Jeff Meyer  —   gripping the blades and offering the handle, the way he and everyone else were taught in kindergarten. But when Donlon looked down moments later, he recalled last week, he saw his palm covered in blood. Read more about this N. C. A. A. tournament tradition here.