Republican candidate Senator Ted Cruz has slammed U. S. President Barack Obama’s comments on Britain leaving the European Union (EU) today, telling Breitbart London exclusively that the President should look to make ‘Brexit’ an opportunity rather than doing down the chances of Britain getting a free trade deal with the United States. [Earlier today President Obama spoke alongside   Prime Minister David Cameron, telling journalists that he would push Britain to the “back of the queue” for a free trade deal with the country’s strongest global ally if they opted to leave the EU.  But Mr. Obama’s comments were swiftly rebuked by officials in his own administration, as well as being held up as suspect by members of the Westminster political classes. Obama threatens to send Britain to ”back of the queue”. Who in USA says queue? No one. Line drafted by Number 10. Briefing against Britain.  —   Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) April 22, 2016,  Sen. Ted Cruz hit back, and in a statement to Breitbart London, the Republican candidate for president said: “President Obama’s comments today are typical of his administration, which began by returning the bust of Winston Churchill from the Oval Office.   “Rather than scolding our closest allies for even considering exercising their rights as a sovereign nation, the President of the United States should look for ways to make Brexit, if it happens, an opportunity to enhance and strengthen the special relationship between our two countries. ” In late 2015 the once European Commission employee Michael Froman, now President Obama’s trade spokesman, said that the USA would not be in the market for a free trade deal with the UK. But even Mr. Obama today acknowledged that the TTIP free trade deal with the European Union was a long way from concluded, leading campaigners to believe that Brexit could even lead to Britain getting a free trade deal with America first.  Sen. Cruz’s comments come as President Obama dines with Prince William and the Duchess of Cambridge at Kensington Palace. Mr. Obama visited with Her Majesty the Queen at Windsor Castle today, as well as holding a joint press conference with Prime Minister David Cameron at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in Westminster.