Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina became the latest contender to suspended her campaign Wednesday. [“While I suspend my candidacy today, I will continue to travel this country and fight for those Americans who refuse to settle for the way things are and a status quo that no longer works for them,” Fiorina said in a statement announcing her campaign suspension.  Fiorina placed seventh in the New Hampshire primary Tuesday with 4 percent of the vote and seventh in Iowa with 2 percent of the vote. Read her full statement: This campaign was always about citizenship —  taking back our country from a political class that only serves the big, the powerful, the wealthy, and the well connected. Election after election, the same empty promises are made and the same   stump speeches are given, but nothing changes. I’ve said throughout this campaign that I will not sit down and be quiet. I’m not going to start now. While I suspend my candidacy today, I will continue to travel this country and fight for those Americans who refuse to settle for the way things are and a status quo that no longer works for them. Our Republican Party must fight alongside these Americans as well. We must end crony capitalism by fighting the policies that allow it to flourish.  We must fix our festering problems by holding our bloated, inept government bureaucracy accountable.  Republicans must stand for conservative principles that lift people up and recognize all Americans have the right to fulfill their   potential. To young girls and women across the country, I say:  do not let others define you. Do not listen to anyone who says you have to vote a certain way or for a certain candidate because you’re a woman. That is not feminism. Feminism doesn’t shut down conversations or threaten women. It is not about ideology. It is not a weapon to wield against your political opponent. A feminist is a woman who lives the life she chooses and uses all her   gifts. And always remember that a leader is not born, but made.  Choose leadership. As I have said to the many wonderful Americans I have met throughout this campaign, a leader is a servant whose highest calling is to unlock potential in others.  I will continue to serve in order to restore citizen government to this great nation so that together we may fulfill our potential.