Former Louisiana State Senator Elbert Guillory has accused President Barack Obama of turning a “blind eye” to the flooding in the state, saying he does not seem to care about the plight of poor black people. [Speaking to guest host, Breitbart London editor Raheem Kassam on Breitbart News Sunday, Senator Guillory questioned why President Obama could not cut short his golfing vacation to help out in the   state.  “It’s difficult to understand why he could not break from his vacation and his golfing and come to Louisiana,” Senator Gilroy said. When Kassam quoted Kanye West, who said in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 that former president George W. Bush’s response showed he did not care about Black people, Senator Guillory said the same could be said of President Obama. “Under [Obama’s] administration he bailed out the banks, he bailed out Wall Street, but Black unemployment is the highest it has been since the Great Depression,” he said. “More than 60 per cent of our students, sometimes as many as 90 in urban areas, cannot read and write at grade level. ” Senator Guillory switched from the Democrats to the Republicans in 2013, releasing a video in which he condemned his former party of keep poor Black “enslaved” through government handouts. He called on his fellow   to “abandon the government plantation and the party of disappointment so that we may all echo the words of one Republican leader who famously said ‘Free at last, free at last, thank God almighty’”. Black Lives Matter has come under increasing criticism as it faces accusations it has done nothing to help the Louisiana flood victims, despite many of those affected being from poor   neighborhoods. In one video, Jerry L. Washington of Baton Rouge, also known as “Jiggy Black,” asks why the group are ignoring the plight of people in a predominantly Black city. “Where are the Black Lives Matter and the Black Panthers?” he asks. “Because I ain’t seen one Black Panther boat or one Black Lives Matter boat. All I see is our own people from our own city saving us. “All the drama that was going on with the Alton Sterling killing, they came out with guns ready to go to war. But here we go, all these people flooded out and truly in need of help and we can’t find not one of them,” LISTEN: 