On the Wednesday edition of Breitbart News Daily, host and Breitbart News executive chairman Stephen K. Bannon will discuss the terror attacks in Belgium with live reports from Brussels, Paris, and Rome. We’ll also break down the election results from Arizona and Utah, as well as the latest Supreme Court decisions. [Breitbart London’s editor Raheem Kassam will be   with Bannon live in studio in D. C. and Breitbart London’s Oliver Lane will be reporting live from Brussels.  Conservative commentator Armstrong Williams will be calling in live from Paris to discuss the reaction in France to yesterday’s terrorist attack. Frank Gaffney, President of the Center for Security Policy and foreign policy advisor to the Cruz campaign, will discuss the policy in defeating terror. Breitbart’s Dr. Thomas Williams will be reporting live from Rome on the increases to security at the Vatican during Holy Week. Pollster and   Super PAC head Kellyanne Conway will discuss Tuesday’s election results and the way forward for the Cruz campaign. Breitbart Texas editor Brandon Darby and Stephen Miller, the senior policy advisor for the Trump campaign, will call in from the Arizona border. Breitbart’s Mike Flynn will discuss the polling and delegate math for Tuesday’s primaries in Utah and Arizona. Breitbart Jerusalem’s Aaron Klein will discuss his exclusive article titled: “After Brussels, Islamic State Supporters Warn America  —   You’re Next. ” Father Frank Pavone of Priests for Life and Breitbart’s Ken Klukowski will discuss the latest crucial   cases before the Supreme Court. Breitbart’s Sonnie Johnson will call in to make a special announcement to the Breitbart community that you won’t want to miss. Breitbart News Daily is broadcast live on Sirius XM Patriot channel 125 from 6AM to 9AM EST. It is the first live, conservative radio enterprise to air seven days a week. Sirius XM Vice President for news and talk Dave Gorab called the show “the conservative news show of record. ” Follow Breitbart News on Twitter for live updates during the show. Listeners may call into the show at:   .