The Huffington Post published an article about Breitbart Senior Editor Milo Yiannopoulos yesterday, comparing him to the Nazi military officer Ernst Röhm. [The article, which repeatedly misspells Milo’s name, begins by attacking OUT Magazine for their recent profile of Milo, claiming that the magazine’s photoshoot featuring Milo was “transphobic. ”   “The article contained pictures of Yiannopolous as a clown, and in some sort of bad drag in a cheap wig and a dress that could easily be considered to be transphobic, especially given his history of disgust and hatred directed at transgender people. ”  According to the author, any and all cross dressing or drag artistry is somehow “transphobic”.  The article continues to attack Milo: “Yiannopolous isn’t funny like a clown. He’s not cute. He’s not thought provoking. He’s not entertaining. He’s the stuff of human nightmares come to life. ”  The rest of the article then outlines the policies of the Family Research Council, attributing their cause to Milo and claiming that if Donald Trump is elected to the office of President, “the trans community is probably toast (in a legal and cultural sense). ” This is an odd claim, given that Trump was one of the only Republican candidates to argue that transgender people can “use whatever bathroom they want. ” The author justifies the comparison by saying that Milo is “leading online hordes of violent   brownshirts directing their hatred at his bequest against blacks, Muslims, Jews, immigrants, women, and transgender people. ” Once again, leftist blogs seem to be determined to align Milo with the   a movement that he has repeatedly stated he is not a part of.  Summarising her point with further hyperbole, the article’s author states, “Out magazine decided to try to humanize someone who is human only in the sense that all monsters ‘are human. ” Of course a regressive leftist think’s that anyone with an opposing paint of view is less than human, nothing new there. From his Dangerous Faggot Tour bus, currently stationed in Clearwater, FL, Milo responded: “The only thing I have in common with Röhm is that I, too, have been found in compromising positions with young men in uniform. ” Read the HuffPo’s full article on Milo Yiannopoulos here  …     Or read the much more interesting and   interview from Out Magazine here. Lucas Nolan is a conservative who regularly contributes articles on censorship and free speech to Breitbart. Follow him on Twitter@LucasNolan_ or email him at lucas@yiannopoulos. net