Mark D. Faram of Military Times writes a profile of Breitbart Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon, who has taken a temporary leave from Breitbart to lead Republican nominee Donald Trump’s campaign. Faram details how Bannon, a former surface warfare officer in the U. S. Navy, was a “model sailor and driven thinker” and a Reagan conservative from the beginning. [Stephen K. Bannon, a conservative business mogul best known for his work as chairman of the Breitbart News website, spent seven years in the Navy as a surface warfare officer. His military career included a stint at the Pentagon, where he served as a special assistant to the Navy’s top admiral.  [  …    ] Labeled by many as a firebrand and questioned by others about his tactics as he moved up in the banking and media industries, Bannon is seen as a polarizing figure even in the current realm of partisan politics. But a friend who served alongside Bannon in the Navy called him a man of solid character and intriguing ideas. “He’s a pretty extraordinary guy,” said retired Rear Adm. Edward “Sonny” Masso, the former head of the Navy Personnel Command, who served with Bannon as a junior officer. “He’s very good at   and he can do amazing things. He was absolutely a good sailor and naval officer. ” [  …    ] Masso, who has known Bannon for the last 40 years, described the now divisive figure as a model sailor and driven thinker. “To the Fleet and general public, regardless of one’s political ethos, all you need to know is that he’s one of us  —   a sailor,” Masso said. The two met in Navy Surface Warfare Officer School in the late 1970s, and both served aboard the the   destroyer Paul F. Foster. In 1980, they deployed to the Persian Gulf and were there during the aborted Desert One mission to rescue American hostages being held in Iran, though neither knew the scope of what was happening at the time. Masso said Bannon’s conservative roots were always apparent, noting that one of his fondest memories is when Bannon maneuvered to get a group of sailors into Ronald Reagan’s victory speech in November 1980. “He decided that we should try to go the Century Plaza that night,” Masso said. “He called the campaign and identified himself as a naval officer and that he and his shipmates who’d just got back from a deployment to the Persian Gulf were really interested in attending the function. ” When campaign staffers told him no, Bannon reminded him that these men had just returned from serving on “the front lines. ” Eventually, Reagan’s campaign press secretary personally set aside tickets for the men and some family members. [  …    ] Masso said Bannon’s landing of a coveted billet at the Pentagon would have been impressive enough for most officers, but it was clear his sights were focused elsewhere. “When he was on the [Naval operations] staff, he attended, at night, Georgetown University, studying international affairs, and he got a master’s degree there,” Masso said. “This guy was amazing. How many people have a busy,   job at the Pentagon and then go to Georgetown University at night? To me, that says a lot about this guy. ” Read the rest here.