Radio host Glenn Beck posted a link on his Facebook page to an article titled “Glenn’s Predictions That Have Come True From 1999 to 2010. ”[The article, which was originally published on Beck’s personal website, includes a transcript and video excerpt of a segment from Beck’s Blaze show where he outlines his past “predictions” and encourages viewers to heed his current warnings.  From the article on his website: During his radio show Thursday, Glenn pulled out a chalkboard to outline some of his past warnings that were mocked by the media at first, only to ultimately come to pass. “We’ve been wrong on a lot of things, but there’s been a clear pattern,” Glenn said. “As you start to put these things together, you can see that we have  —   as a group, you have  —   because you’ve taken the beatings for these because everybody mocked you at home. But we have seen over the horizon, and I want to fill you with the hope that what’s over the horizon is tough, but good. ” An excerpt from the transcript on Beck’s website (emphasis in the original): 1999: NYC  —   Osama bin LadinSo let’s start with 1999, Osama bin Laden. I was on the air on WABC in 1999. And in 1999, I said, “Are you ready to fight terror? It’s a completely different world. Osama bin Laden  —   there will be blood, bodies, and buildings in the street. ” 2003: Downfall of the GOPOkay. The next one, would you say it was the downfall of the G. O. P.? Because I started saying that pretty early. PAT: Yeah. In 2004, maybe. GLENN: ‘3, ‘4. Something isn’t right. PAT:  . GLENN: And I starred [sic] telling people  —   I started talking to them on the air. If anybody is a   listener, they remember that I would talk on the air and say to everybody in Washington, “Do you realize what’s happening? Do you realize that you’re disenfranchising people?” Then what? 2004: Economy  —   Housing CrisisSTU: I mean, you certainly were warning about the economy collapsing pretty early. GLENN: That was ’04. Because I remember I was saying during the election of Bush. That was the housing bubble and the banking crisis. Because I was talking about how, don’t take out these loans. Read the rest here. Watch the video of the segment here.   Follow Rebecca Mansour on Twitter @RAMansour