ST. PETERSBURG, Russia  —   A man from Kyrgyzstan who had a Russian passport was responsible for the deadly subway blast in St. Petersburg, the Russian and Kyrgyz authorities said Tuesday, as the toll from the attack rose to 14 dead and more than 60 wounded. The Investigative Committee of Russia, the main federal law enforcement agency, identified the bomber as Akbarzhon Dzhalilov, 22. Kyrgyz officials said he was a member of the Uzbek minority in the southern city of Osh who received Russian citizenship in 2011, around the time he moved to St. Petersburg. Russian forensic experts found his DNA on a bag left at the Vosstaniya Square subway station, the agency’s statement said. A more powerful bomb was discovered there and defused, soon after the explosion on Monday afternoon, on a train that had just departed another station, Sennaya Square. The DNA evidence, as well as   television footage, led investigators to believe that Mr. Dzhalilov had blown himself up and had wanted to bomb the Vosstaniya Square station, the statement said. There was some indication that Mr. Dzhalilov had not acted alone. Russian investigators were seeking a young man and woman from Central Asia, according to some news reports, but there was no official confirmation. In addition to killing 14 people, the blast on Monday wounded 64 others, a St. Petersburg official, Aleksandr Rzhanenkov, said at a news briefing. Some of the survivors who were being treated at City Hospital No. 26 in St. Petersburg described a gruesome interruption to their routine commute when the bomb went off. “Children were torn into pieces,” recalled Konstantin Y. Kolodkin, 40, who boarded the subway just before the blast at 2:40 p. m. on Monday. He said flying shards of metal sprayed the passengers aboard his subway car. “I don’t know what it was, metal balls, screws,” he said. “There were bits of skin. ” Mikhail A. Veprentsev, an    college student who was riding in a subway car adjacent to the one that ferried the bomber, said he saw victims “with screws sticking out their heads like bullets. ” There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the bombing, or any information linking the suicide bomber to Islamist extremists. Investigators were trying to piece together where and when Mr. Dzhalilov might have become radicalized. One unidentified source told the Interfax news agency that after a trip home in February, Mr. Dzhalilov, a car mechanic, returned to St. Petersburg sullen and withdrawn. They say he might have been recruited then. The authorities in the Central Asian states of the former Soviet Union, which are predominantly Muslim, have said that the Islamic State has recruited hundreds of fighters from the region. The Islamist insurgency in the northern Caucasus has also provided thousands of fighters. Members of the Islamic State have periodically threatened to carry out attacks in Russia in retaliation for its intervention in the Syrian conflict, among other reasons. Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia, while not confirming any details of the investigation, said it was wrong to portray the attack as a result of his country’s intervention in Syria. “As far as the discussions by several media outlets that the terrorist act is a revenge for our Syria policy, this is cynical and despicable,” he said during a news conference with his Kyrgyz counterpart. Erlan B. Abdyldaev, the Kyrgyz foreign minister, said the investigation would reveal whether the suspect had any ties to radical Islamist movements. Photographs on Mr. Dzhalilov’s page on the social media network VKontakte, the last of which was posted 18 months ago, show a slim teenager growing into a muscular young man with a beard. The last photograph shows him wearing a baseball cap, a green hoodie and a black Adidas puffer vest. There is a link on his page to the Islamic website Tawba, or Repentance, which posted automatic messages about the faith every few hours. The photographs indicated that Mr. Dzhalilov had an interest in martial arts as well as fast cars, and they included souvenir shots taken around St. Petersburg with a few friends. “He wasn’t a very advanced fighter,” said Salam Khudoerzoda, who said he vaguely remembered encountering Mr. Dzhalilov more than four years ago at a martial arts gym. “He came, had a few fights and then left. ” Mr. Khudoerzoda said, “If he was a big fighter, I would know him. ” In Osh, a representative of the security services said Mr. Dzhalilov’s family had been questioned, Interfax reported. According to Russian news reports, the man’s father, who had been working in Russia, brought him to St. Petersburg as a teenager to start working to help pay for a new house after their old neighborhood in Osh had been devastated by ethnic riots. The Russian authorities have long feared that radicalized militants from the former Soviet states, who can travel freely to Russia, might carry out attacks. Many Russian nationalists have argued for introducing visa requirements for those countries, but Russia’s government has sought to avoid doing so, in the interest of preserving good relations. Neighbors and others interviewed by Russian news organizations said Mr. Dzhalilov thrived in Russia, starting as a metal worker in an auto repair shop and becoming an accomplished mechanic. He went home once or twice a year to visit his mother and younger brother and sister. He did not come to the attention of law enforcement officials except for some unpaid traffic tickets, according to the Interfax report. It is still not clear how he might have been recruited. His father also went home in February, but stayed, the reports said, and he was still there when law enforcement officials showed up after the attack to question the family. On Tuesday morning, Aleksandr Drozdenko, governor of the region that surrounds St. Petersburg, rode the subway to try to reassure a jittery population that the system was safe. The blast occurred just as the train departed the Sennaya Square station, one of the busiest transportation hubs in central St. Petersburg, Russia’s   city. The train was able to reach the next station, the Technology Institute, where the full extent of the carnage became clear. The toll could have been much higher if the second bomb, disguised as a fire extinguisher, had not been disarmed. Security was increased at major transportation facilities across Russia, including on the Moscow Metro. The driver of the train, Alexander Kaverin, said he had no time to be afraid after the blast. “I couldn’t think about fear at that moment I had to work,” he said at a news conference. “According to standard instructions, I had to move the train to the next station. ”