Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher Curt Schilling told the King of Boston Talk Radio Tuesday he is considering a run against Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D. . ).[“I am seriously contemplating it, she is embodies most of everything that is wrong,” Schilling told Howie Carr, the host of The Howie Carr Show.  Carr had asked Schilling  —   the man who pitched Game 6 of the American League Championship Playoffs with blood from his stapled ankle bleeding through his sock  —   if he was ready to make the announcement. One of the reasons the former ESPN analyst would want to challenge Warren is that she is typical of the   and Democrats working to keep themselves in power, while keeping the underclass from moving up, he said. Another reason is that he likes the idea of working for people as a senator. “I like the thought of being in a position to sit down with constituents and take their concerns to Washington,” Schilling said. If he did run, Schilling told Carr, it would be as a serious conservative. “I’m   I’m   Amendment,” he said. “I believe in the Constitution. I believe in the Bill of Rights. I don’t think there is any ambiguity in any of that. They are all easy to read and easy to understand. ” Although Schilling pitched for the Philadelphia Phillies and won a World Series with the Arizona Diamondbacks in 2001, the righthander is bonded with the Boston fans after being a key part of the Red Sox World Series wins in 2004 and 2007. Schilling and his family live in Medfield, a New England postcard town an hour outside of the city. For Carr, booking Schilling was a coup for the first week of his new simulcast on Newsmax TV. The member of the Radio Hall of Fame told Breitbart News in an exclusive interview the simulcast was the next logical step for his syndicated show, now heard on 24 stations. “A lot of news somehow always tracks back to Boston in some way or another, whether it’s John Kerry or Obama or Hillary Clinton —  everyone seems to have Boston roots,” said Howie Carr, who for more than 20 years has dominated Boston talk radio. He also writes columns for The Boston Herald and Breitbart News. “We do three hours of straight national stuff and I reserve the right in the fourth hour to do local stories and local issues,” he said. The host said both he and Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax, knew each other, so when Ruddy announced Newsmax TV was launching, Carr gave him a call and that started things rolling. The simulcast launched Monday in Carr’s newly refurbished studios that were designed knowing that the NewsMaxTV was in the works. Ruddy told Breitbart that Carr is a perfect fit with the rest of his programming. “Howie Carr is one of the best radio hosts in America,” he said. “His voice, his message needs to be heard far and wide. That’s why we are airing him live on Newsmax TV across America. ” Carr said The Howie Carr Show has taken more national focus since syndication and that will be true for the   the radio show holds the 4 p. m. slot on Newmax TV. “No one should be afraid to tune in thinking they’re going to get city council fights in Boston,” he said. “I enjoy TV, it’s really a good medium —  honestly, I’m probably better in print or on the radio, but I think I am serviceable,” he said. “This is a radio show that’s going to be broadcast on TV. ” Carr said with the large screens behind him, he is able to put up images that go along with the topic of conversation when the Virginia teenager climbed up the side of Trump Tower, the show kept going as before, but with the live feed of the climber in the background. “Anyone is foolish not to take advantage of this technology. ” In the 1970s and 1980s, Carr was a political reporter in Boston covering City Hall and the Statehouse and he said he missed it. One of Carr’s most famous TV reports was on what he called secret hack holidays, when state or local offices are closed for a holiday nobody knows about, such as March 17, Evacuation Day, which marks the day the British Army left Boston and also falls on the Feast of St. Patrick. To make his point, Carr set up a TV camera in front of the closed offices to record the reactions of regular people figuring out that the government office workers had the day off. “Yeah, people would drive up from New Bedford or Springfield and think they were going to the Registry and the place would be closed down,” he said. Carr is best known nationally for his books about South Boston’s own Bulger Brothers  —   Whitey, the leader of a murderous crime organization called the Winter Hill Gang, and Billy, who rose to become the president of the Massachusetts State Senate and for many years was the most powerful politician in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Even at the height of Billy’s power, he was known as “the corrupt midget” in Carr’s columns and on the radio show. Johnny Depp played Whitey Bulger in the film “Black Mass” with Benedict Cumberpatch playing Billy. Jack Nicholson’s character in “The Departed” was based on Whitey. When Whitey was finally brought to trial, he named Carr as a defense witness just to keep the columnist from sitting in on the trial as a spectator. Carr’s books include: The Brothers Bulger: How They Terrorized and Corrupted Boston for a Quarter Century Ratman: The trial and conviction of Whitey Bulger Rifleman: The Untold Story of Steve Flemi, Whitey Bulger’s Partner Hitman: The Untold Story of Johnny Martorano: Whitey Bulger’s Enforcer and the Most Feared Gangster in the Underworld, and Plug Uglies: A scrapbook of Boston Organized Crime. The CBS News program 60 Minutes ran a story about Whitey putting out a contract on Carr and after his conviction, the mobster said his biggest regret was not killing Howie Carr.