Guards at Rikers Island continue to use brutal force against inmates at an “alarming rate,” punching them in the head, slamming them into walls and then lying about it, according to a report submitted on Monday by a federal monitor overseeing reforms at the jail complex. Inmates are dragged and kicked while handcuffed, as well as doused with pepper spray when routine verbal commands and   techniques would suffice, according to the report. The report, the third published by an independent monitoring team since a federal judge gave approval in 2015 to a sweeping settlement agreement meant to clean up Rikers, paints a pessimistic portrait of conditions at the jails. The number of fights among inmates has spiked, particularly among the youngest. In the last three months of 2016, officers sustained more injuries than inmates did. “While the reforms required by the consent judgment are far too new to have resulted in significant decreases in inmate violence, the rates of violence were not expected to increase,” the report said. The report is sure to support calls to close Rikers. Last week, Mayor Bill de Blasio backed a plan to replace the complex with smaller jails, although he stopped short of saying that one should be placed in each of New York’s five boroughs. But the mayor estimated that it would be at least a decade before the nine jails on the island are closed for good. The city has spent hundreds of millions of dollars to improve conditions at Rikers, hiring new officers, bolstering training and expanding programs for inmates. “We have incessantly changed the situation,” Mr. de Blasio said at a news conference on Monday. “Different approach to recruiting officers. Different approach to training officers. We’re increasing the number of officers, largely to reduce situations where conflicts arise because there isn’t enough personnel present to keep the situation under control. ” And still the violence continues. The report, which covers Aug. 1 to Dec. 31, 2016, documented 305 altercations that involved a strike to the head, a technique that is to be used as a last resort. While some of the strikes were necessary, according to the report, “many were utilized to punish, discipline or retaliate against an inmate. ” The report recounts an inmate who sustained 10 discrete head injuries during a confrontation with seven correction officers. Contrary to the officers’ claims, investigators found no evidence that the inmate had tried to strike a guard. There were 30 injuries classified as serious during the five months covered by the report, and nearly 700 lesser injuries. When officers use excessive force, the report found, they sometimes collude to falsify documents as a way to cover up the truth. In one case, an officer asserted that an inmate had attacked him, causing him to suffer “severe pain. ” A video showed that the inmate’s elbow “made contact with the officer’s upper body” then the officer punched him in the head. The disciplinary process remains dysfunctional, the report found. Internal Affairs investigators are often biased, favoring officers and failing to pursue discipline even when a guard’s wrongdoing is clear. The monitors described a Rikers captain who was caught on video slamming an inmate into a wall. An investigator concluded that there was no evidence the captain intended “harm. ” “Too often, even where objective evidence of wrongdoing is clearly apparent, the department failed to pursue adequate discipline,” the report said. The monitors praised the Department of Correction for moving quickly to install surveillance cameras, which can help to minimize violence. By Jan. 31, the department had installed 6, 681 cameras 8, 000 are required by the settlement. But officers have failed to properly use   cameras during confrontations with inmates. Devices were turned away or never switched on. Joseph Ponte, the correction commissioner, said his department “is moving quickly to fix the issues the monitor identifies,” adding that progress was being felt. Serious injuries in confrontations between guards and inmates declined significantly in 2016. And according to department data from 2017, the use of force by guards had reached the lowest level in years in the two jails that house the youngest inmates. Mary Lynne Werlwas, the director of the Prisoners’ Rights Project at Legal Aid and a lead attorney in the   suit that led to the settlement, called the report’s findings “deeply disappointing. ” “Progress requires a fundamental shift in the culture of impunity for misconduct and mismanagement,” Ms. Werlwas said. “It is that culture that will remain long after Rikers Island is shuttered if it is not faced squarely and robustly right now. ”