The New York Times Editorial Board is endorsing Ohio Governor John Kasich as its Republican choice for President. [Kasich provides an alternative to Republican frontrunners Donald Trump and Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) whom the Editorial Board find “equally objectionable for different reasons. ”  Kasich’s credentials are not explored until the end of the endorsement. The majority of the piece targets Sen. Cruz and Donald Trump. Trump “has neither experience in nor interest in learning about national security, defense or global trade,” the endorsement of Kasich opines. “From deporting Mexican  immigrants and barring Muslims to slapping a 45 percent tariff on Chinese imports, Mr. Trump invents his positions as he goes along. ” The paper then turns its attention to Sen. Cruz, and his campaign which is supposedly not about “constitutional principles,” but “about ambition. ” Cruz “helped engineer a shutdown of the government and has alienated virtually the entire chamber, both of which he bills as accomplishments since he lacks real ones,” The Times Editorial Board writes. The “greater worry” is that Cruz would actually “follow words with action” by making good on his promises to promote a flat tax and revamp the war against the Islamic State, the Editorial Board adds. Paragraph five of the endorsement focuses on the shortcomings of other Republican candidates, such as Jeb Bush and his failure to “ignite much support,” Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) and his “embracing of alarmist views,” Dr. Ben Carson’s “inability to grasp the world,” and Gov. Chris Christie’s pledge to “bar refugees” from Syria. Not until paragraph six does the endorsement even discuss Governor Kasich, who the editorial board says is “no moderate” because of his views on unions, abortion, and   marriage. Kasich, “though a distinct underdog, is the only plausible choice for Republicans tired of the extremism and inexperience on display in this race,” the piece reads. But Kasich “has been capable of compromise and believes in the ability of government to improve lives,” the endorsement says, praising the Ohio Governor’s massive Medicaid expansion within his state.