Breitbart News National Security editor Dr. Sebastian Gorka, author of “Defeating Jihad: The Winnable War,” appeared on Fox News’s “Hannity” on Tuesday to react to FBI director James Comey’s announcement his agency would not be recommending criminal charges against presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton for her use of a private email server while secretary of state.  According to Gorka, since Comey acknowledged some of Clinton’s emails may have ended up in the wrong hands, she becomes a potential target for blackmail and that she should “instantly” recuse herself from public office. Transcript as follows: HANNITY: FBI director James Comey earlier today talking about the possibility of, yes, hackers gaining access to Hillary Clinton’s private email server while she was secretary of state. Did she put your national security at risk? Joining us now, the author of “The Damned of Petersburg,” FOX News strategic analyst Lieutenant Colonel Ralph Peters, as well of “Defeating Jihad: The Winnable War,” and the distinguished chair of military theory at Marine Corps University, Dr. Sebastian Gorka. Listen to what he’s saying. Well, we wouldn’t be able to see the evidence because they’re so clean. They would get in and out without us knowing. It was a   domain. And by the way, she did use it on hostile territory. So it’s probably likely  —   He’s saying they got it. SEBASTIAN GORKA, “DEFEATING JIHAD” AUTHOR: Right. HANNITY: That’s how I interpret it. GORKA: Right, which means that she is blackmailable. We know more than 100 emails contained classified information, some of, them   the highest level  …     HANNITY: SAP. GORKA: SAP, special access program  —   which means that she could be blackmailed by anybody, Russia, China, North Korea, Iran. She was sending classified emails from outside U. S. territory on multiple servers using multiple devices. That means she could be  —   the second she gets into office, they give her the football with the nuclear codes. North Korea, Iran starts blackmailing her. She should recuse herself from any public office, Sean, instantly! HANNITY: Colonel Peters, do you agree with that assessment? COL. RALPH PETERS, U. S. ARMY (RET.) FOX MILITARY ANALYST: Well, yes, I certainly do. And when this all broke  —   you know, my  —   I just remembered my interactions with the old KGB in Moscow and here in Washington at meetings. And you know, the Russians must have been stunned. They probably thought it was all an elaborate CIA hoax at first, that no American secretary of state would do this, would be this stupid. And unquestionably, this has compromised. Look, as a former intelligence professional, Sean, over 20 years, I can guarantee you the Russians, the Chinese, the French and probably any number of private actors in other states were definitely reading those  . And she knew. She knew, she knew, she knew all along. This wasn’t a couple of mistakes. For years she was doing this. HANNITY: She actually said  —   and I’ll throw this to you  —   that there were numerous safeguards. The Secret Service surrounded it. There was no safeguards at all. That was another lie on top of every other lie she told about this. GORKA: The whole narrative from day one of her campaign has been blown out of the water. “I never sent material that was marked classified or unclassified. ” HANNITY: Sent or received. GORKA: He specifically addressed that. He said it doesn’t matter if it’s marked or unmarked. HANNITY: He obliterated every lie she told, which made me think he was going in a different direction. Why would he obliterate the lies and then say, no  —   GORKA: Look, from the point of view of Machiavellian politics, what Director Comey did was perfection, because I was there watching it live in a FOX studio. We were all watching it. And for a   presser, he does 13 minutes, and everybody is going, he’s going to do it. He’s going to do it. He’s going to recommend prosecution. Last 90 seconds, he does a 180. So, sorry, not going to do it. He covered all bases. He made himself look diligent. We’ve done all the research. We’ve done all the investigation. But he saved himself. He saved his job by saying not prosecuting. HANNITY: Colonel Peters? PETERS: Well, Hillary, don’t underestimate her. She made a bet that she was too big to jail, and she was right. And, you know, Sean, you and I have gone back and forth. I have regarded both candidates as a choice between Satan and Lucifer. Today was the first day I thought, you know, I might have to vote for Donald Trump just to get the   mafia out of this country, out of Washington certainly, because what they have done and what Director Comey did, disgracefully, was to shred the law. He showed that there are two sets of laws, one for the rest of us and one for the elite of the elite like Hillary Clinton. And it’s part of the pattern of the Obama administration. They’ve been dismantling the constitution, selective prosecutions, rigged investigations. I mean the constitution, the law is the foundation of all that’s good in this country. And we  —   and they’re destroying it. It’s like Venezuela or Paraguay or Bolivia. HANNITY: Powerful statements by both of you. Thanks so much. Dr. Gorka, thank you, Lieutenant Colonel Peters, thank you. Follow Breitbart. tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideo