Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • President Trump warned that he would not tolerate the “heinous” chemical weapons attack in northern Syria on Tuesday, opening the door to a greater American role in the country’s civil war. The attack “crossed a lot of lines for me,” he said, as he met with King Abdullah II of Jordan. Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador to the U. N. blamed Russia for blocking a Security Council resolution that would have condemned the attack and warned that the U. S. might take unilateral action. We examined some of the atrocities the Syrian president, Bashar   has perpetrated against his people. And “The Daily” podcast tracks the course of the Syrian conflict and the choices Mr. Trump faces. _____ • Mr. Trump and Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, are headed to Florida today for a   summit meeting. Apart from North Korea, Mr. Trump’s focus will be the U. S. trade deficit, but our economic reporter finds that the president misses the broad benefits of expanded trade and distracts from a major threat to employment: robots. Mr. Xi is traveling from Finland, a visit that was part of Beijing’s charm offensive toward Europe. Unsurprisingly, it included the lending of two pandas, China’s ultimate   resource. _____ • Mr. Xi’s talks in Finland addressed European and Chinese concerns that Mr. Trump’s protectionist agenda could hurt global trade. In Germany, the Trump administration’s unusual hostility toward free trade has been a rude shock to manufacturers such as BMW. “I think there is a little bit lack of understanding,” the carmaker’s chief executive said. _____ • France’s National Front has attempted a remarkable  : once synonymous with   the   party is now recasting itself as a defender of Jews  —   which could give voters license to embrace its   views. The country’s most famous scholar of Islam, Gilles Kepel, above, finds himself at the center of a tense debate over assimilation, extremism and what it means to be French. “You have a whole generation of politicians here who do not know how to talk to religious people,” he said. _____ • And what’s to be done if nothing is working to slow down global warming? It’s time to think science fiction, a group of experts suggests. Geoengineering provides methods to offset climate change by applying scientific fixes  —   like cooling the planet by shooting aerosols into the stratosphere or whitening clouds to reflect sunlight  —   rather than changing old habits. _____ • Pepsi apologized and pulled an ad that borrowed imagery from the Black Lives Matter movement. • Just a “breath away. ”  —   That’s Alexis Tsipras, Greece’s prime minister, on progress in Greek bailout talks. • Jeff Bezos, the billionaire founder of Amazon, said he was selling about $1 billion in stock a year to finance his own space program. • Deals: ChemChina won E. U. approval for a $43 billion takeover of Syngenta, the Swiss farm chemical and seed company. And JAB, the European conglomerate, said it would add the Panera restaurant chain to its American food empire for $7. 5 billion. •  Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • President Trump removed Stephen K. Bannon, the White House chief strategist, from his post at the National Security Council. [The New York Times] • In the latest part of our series examining Turkey’s crises, we meet in secret with members of the Gulen religious movement, which has been accused of plotting against President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [The New York Times] • The European Parliament voted in favor of a tough negotiating stance toward “Brexit. ” Lawmakers will not participate directly in talks but must approve the final deal. [The Guardian] • A Polish court ruled in favor of the   government taking over control of a key World War II museum amid a dispute over how the war should be remembered. [The New York Times] • Alice Schwarzer, a pioneering German feminist, reflects on women’s rights facing headwinds in Turkey and the U. S. “At the latest since Trump’s election, it is feminism pure which is needed,” she said. [The New York Times] • And Russia banned the circulation of a Photoshopped image of Vladimir V. Putin that shows the Russian president wearing makeup. [Radio Free Europe] • Start your day with a positive outlook. It may improve your health. • Many people think they can teach themselves to need less sleep. Sadly, that’s impossible. • Stuffed portobello mushrooms are a satisfying option for a meatless, yet meaty, main course. • Life on Mars. In the second episode of this   series, above, we revisit six people who are living on a volcano in Hawaii for eight months to simulate the exploration of the red planet. • Take a digital stroll through Anna Wintour’s meandering, wild garden  —   cultivated over the last 20 years by her friend, the   landscape designer Miranda Brooks. • Some in Italy dismiss Milan as a Brutalist concrete jungle. But they may have simply never looked beyond the city’s closed doors. • And in soccer: Chelsea beat Manchester City for the second time this season, putting Antonio Conte’s Blues on the verge of the Premier League title. The first modern Olympic Games started in Athens on this day in 1896. The revival of what was banned as a pagan festival in the fourth century is largely attributed to Baron Pierre de Coubertin, a French aristocrat. The first Olympics featured nine sports across 43 events, and produced some charming stories. Robert Garrett, an American, had never seen a discus. To practice, he had a blacksmith forge  —   based on classical accounts  —   “a   discus that weighed 30 pounds and was impossible to throw any distance. ” When he arrived in Athens, he learned that a discus was only about eight inches across and weighed less than five pounds. After nearly injuring spectators on his first throws, he won the gold. (Although in the 1896 Olympics,   medals were made of silver.) And Spyridon Louis, a Greek, became a national hero for winning the marathon after stopping during the race for a drink at his uncle’s bar. The first games were a hit, and new events were added. The 1900 Olympics included firefighting and  . In 1912, contests included painting and architecture. Of the 33 sports that are scheduled for the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, five  —   including karate and skateboarding  —   will be new. Charles McDermid contributed reporting. _____ This briefing was prepared for the European morning. We also have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian and American mornings. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes. com.