Former Rep. Michele Bachmann ( ) told the Values Voter Summit in Washington D. C. on Friday, “On every single level, if you look at the agenda that Donald Trump has put forward, it’s been one that I  —   as a constitutional conservative, as a believer in Jesus Christ  —   I cannot only easily embrace, but readily embrace. ”[“In fact,” Bachmann continued, “people have said, when you look at Donald Trump and you look at Hillary Clinton, there isn’t  —   and you look at these parties  —   there isn’t a dime’s worth of difference between the candidates. ”  “I’m here to tell you, there isn’t a dime’s worth of similarity between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton,” she said, to thunderous applause from the audience. “What is important to me,” she told the audience, “is to let the most important voting block in the United States get a message. ” That voting block “is believers in Jesus Christ. “The believing community across the United States, statistically, will be the voting block that chooses who the next President of the United States is,” Bachmann asserted. Do you realize the level of power and influence that   God has laid into the hands of those who call on his name?” she asked: We have a powerful opportunity, and one thing that we need to keep in mind is a sense of urgency. People have gone through this whole long process. Don’t you wish elections were six weeks long? I do. Three and a half years is kind of a long time. But what we recognize is that this year, 2016, is like no other year we have had before because we have never seen the level of American decline that we have in the last seven and a half years. “In all likelihood,” Bachmann continued, “the United States of America may not survive another   dilemma of   American decline. ” The choice for America in 2016, Bachmann said, is binary. Voters must pick one of the two major party candidates to lead the country: There will be two candidates this fall. Every four years there’s always a   candidate or a   candidate that comes into play in these elections. But if you look at American history, it always comes down to two  —   count them, one  —   two  —   candidates, and it’s going to be one of the one  —   two candidates. This year is no different. “It will either be Donald Trump, or it will be Hillary Clinton. One of the two,” Bachmann said. Bachmann then specifically explained why, in her view, Hillary Clinton is not fit to serve as   . “I served with Hillary Clinton. I was on the Intelligence Committee when the Benghazi tragedy came down, and I saw how Mrs. Clinton completely flunked her test as  ” Bachmann said. “Just Benghazi alone is sufficient reason to reject her as the next President of the United States,” she added. “Why?” she asked, then she offered these details on her bill of indictment: We had literally hundreds of requests for increased security [at Benghazi]. She slammed the door. When the Brits, the Canadians, the Red Cross were abandoning Benghazi, she kept our people there. And not only did she not fulfill the security requests, she pulled back security supports that we had in place. During the Benghazi attack, for the 13 hours when she should have been in the situation room, for 13 hours when we had a drone overhead watching the   battle unfold, she should have done what every Secretary of State in American history did, and that’s call in a military response to save people who were being massacred on the ground. “She did not do that,” Bachmann said of former Secretary of State Clinton. “She did not make that request,” she continued. “Flunked, failure. You cannot be    and leave Americans on an active battlefield: And we know immediately she knew this was a terrorist attack, but yet she told the people that she really trusts, like her daughter, that this was a terrorist attack, but for the families of the dead, she told them a lie. She persisted [in saying] that it was some fake, phony internet video because, of course, under no circumstances can we ever insult Islam. That’s Hillary Clinton. “So you see, there’s a compare and contrast [between Trump and Clinton] like you can’t believe,” Bachmann said. Bachmann then criticized Hillary Clinton’s immigration policies. “If Hillary Clinton comes in as the President of the United States, her first act will be to ensure her   and the way to do that will be to grant unconstitutional illegal amnesty for millions of people who are in the United States illegally so that she can turn them into voters for her four years later,” she said. “It isn’t that we are ” Bachmann added. “I’m not I married the son of an immigrant. Probably most of you have very strong immigrant connections. We are not against [immigrants]. We need immigrants. But you must follow the rule of law,” she said. Bachmann also blasted the Obama administration for abandoning the rule of law. “The greatest casualty on the battlefield of Barack Obama’s administration has been the exaltation of lawlessness in the United States. That is Barack Obama’s legacy,” she said, adding: Think of that. Lawlessness in the United States. Does anyone for a moment think that Hillary Clinton will revert to upholding the law if she is President of the United States? It is not going to happen. In contrast, “Donald Trump will stand as a law and order president,” she said. Bachmann closed with a flourish, attacking those in Hollywood who say, “if Donald Trump is elected, they will leave the country”: That’s what Hollywood says. Well, it’s easy for them to say that, because you see, they love socialism. They love centralized planners. They’ve got an entire world to choose from of socialist nations and central planners. What I ask you is this: Where do we go? Those of us who love constitutional republics. Last time I looked, I think we’re it. Where are we supposed to go? So, if Hillary wins, what’s our lot? I think we know what’s going to happen in the Department of Justice  …     the Department of Injustice. “We have never before seen the level of politicization of federal agencies as we have under Barack Obama,” Bachmann added.