France has detained 101 people “directly linked to terrorism” since January this year, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve has said. [Speaking six months after terrorists went on the rampage in Paris, killing 130 people and wounding over 360 more, Mr Cazeneuve told reporters that security at this year’s European football championship will be extra high and that 33 million people entering and leaving France had been screened since the attacks.  “We are doing everything to protect the French people, but the threat is still very high. ” “At the European level, in large part thanks to France’s initiative, things are moving forward,” he added, claiming that 17, 500 people had been denied access to French territory over the past six months. France suffered two deadly terror attacks last year, first when Islamists attacked the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket in January, killing 12 people, and then in the mass shootings in Paris in November. Le Parisien reports Mr Cazeneuve said that the country remains in a state of emergency, and will continue to do so until 26 July. Next month, the country hosts the Euro 2016 tournament followed by the Tour de France, sporting events that are likely to draw hundreds of thousands of visitors, making them prime targets for potential terrorists. “We are mobilising on a large scale to assure the highest possible security level,” Mr Cazeneuve said. Earlier this week, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls announced that France would create special   “rehabilitation centres” in every region of the country to counter the growing extremist threat. The plans seeks to double the capacity for authorities to deal with young, radicalised Muslims within the space of two years. There will also be extra protection for likely targets, including increased CCTV throughout the    region. “The fight against jihadism is the big challenge of our generation,” Mr Valls tweeted. An estimated 244 jihadists have returned to France from Syria and Iraq since January 2015.