WASHINGTON  —   One by one, the senators shuffled to the lectern on Wednesday, explaining themselves grimly, reflecting on the specter of mutually assured destruction and wondering aloud how the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Neil M. Gorsuch had delivered the institution to this moment. It was the eve of two seminal votes for the Capitol’s upper chamber: an expected Democratic filibuster of Judge Gorsuch on Thursday and a likely rule change pushed by Republicans  —   the   nuclear option  —   to bypass the filibuster and confirm President Trump’s selection with a simple majority vote. On a few points, at least, bipartisan consensus seemed to have congealed: This is terrible for the Senate. This is terrible for the country. And this is happening. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, spoke of the “further and perhaps irreparable damage it will do to the United States Senate. ” Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, suggested it was a trying time to be a lawmaker who prides herself “as one who believes in the traditions of the Senate. ” Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, held forth wistfully on a bygone era in these halls. “We need to get back,” he said, “to the comity that we’ve had. ” And these were the “yes” votes on the nuclear option. Yet as they have argued all week, from the moment Democrats secured the votes to block the nomination under current rules, Republicans insisted on Wednesday that they had no choice but to pursue this course. “Democrats would filibuster Ruth Bader Ginsburg if President Trump nominated her,” the Republican majority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said from the Senate floor. “We all know why. Democrats are bowing to   special interests that can’t get over the results of the election. ” The minority party has framed its opposition differently. Democrats have cited concerns over Judge Gorsuch’s record on workers’ rights and his degree of independence from Mr. Trump, among other issues. They have also reminded the public of the treatment last year of Judge Merrick B. Garland, President Barack Obama’s nominee for the seat left vacant with the death of Justice Antonin Scalia. Republicans, led by Mr. McConnell, refused to even consider Judge Garland during a presidential election year. “The truth is, each side can blame the other,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, making clear which side he blamed more. “We believe they’re more in the wrong. They believe we’re more in the wrong. The game of pointing fingers and    can go back and back and back to the very founding of the republic. ” But the remedy, Mr. Schumer argued, was not to bulldoze longstanding rules and traditions it was to find a compromise nominee who could earn 60 votes. “If the majority leader breaks the rules tomorrow  —   and that’s his choice,” Mr. Schumer began, warning that Mr. McConnell would be “erasing the last shred of bipartisanship in the Senate confirmation process. ” No senator logged more speaking hours on Wednesday (and Tuesday) than Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, who held the floor until midmorning after a more than   overnight    to protest the nomination. It was not technically a proper filibuster, as no Senate business was being delayed. But it was certainly a feat of congressional stamina and   content enhancement, with rousing flourishes, meandering detours and encouragement from his Democratic peers on social media. “I’m here on the floor at 4:20 in the morning,” he said at one point, nearing 10 hours in, “because so much is at stake. ” In his remarks, Mr. Merkley argued that Judge Gorsuch’s rulings had disproportionately favored the privileged. He suggested that the Senate should not confirm a lifetime appointee of Mr. Trump’s amid investigations into ties between the president’s orbit and Russia. He quoted George Washington and lamented creeping commercialism and an erosion of civic participation. Republicans have pointed to assorted moments of Democratic escalation, including attempts to block judicial nominees under President George W. Bush and the party’s choice in 2013, when Democrats controlled the Senate, to bar filibusters on lower judgeships and executive branch nominees. Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, said the week’s events owed to the “physics of politics,” framing the rule change as an inevitable outgrowth of a rare partisan filibuster of a Supreme Court pick whom conservatives view as plainly qualified and uncontroversial. “For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction,” Mr. Scott said. “An unprecedented action is going to provoke an unprecedented reaction. ” Still, several lawmakers sought to present themselves as pained, fueling an unusual dynamic on Capitol Hill. At least a handful of Republicans predicted that their votes would damage the country and the future of the judiciary, but described the alternative  —   letting Judge Gorsuch’s nomination die  —   as even less palatable. “Now that we’re entering into an era where a simple majority decides all judicial nominations, we will see more and more nominees from the extremes of both left and right,” Mr. McCain said. “I do not see how that will ensure a fair and impartial judiciary. ” Republicans have vowed that Judge Gorsuch will be confirmed on Friday.