A highly regarded researcher and academic has warned that Muslims in Europe view migration as the start of the Islamisation of the continent. Prof. Abdessamad Belhaj also detailed how globalists are using Muslim migrants to turn Western countries into socially divided societies of   consumers. [The scholar of Islam and social sciences warned that large numbers of migrants are “calamitous” for the European people, and that neoliberal elites see Islamic terrorism, and state bankruptcy and collapse as collateral damage in their pursuit of endless wealth.  In an interview with Hungary’s Institute for Migration Research, Professor Belhaj discussed what he calls the Islamic moral economy. He summarised this economy as based around the belief that “if there is money, it is because of Islam, and if there is Islam it will bring money”. The Moroccan academic, who works in countries across Europe, stated that Muslim migrants view “all property as ‘given’ and not ‘acquired’ by work”. Professor Belhaj revealed that Muslims, therefore, believe that by taking Europe’s land, Muslims will be granted wealth. He contended: “In Islamic discourses, migration is seen as a beginning of the Islamisation of Europe, the rich land that will change the fate of Islam, from a religion of the poor to a religion of the rich. “This is of course a paradox since the poor can only make Europe poorer. Furthermore, immigration is justified as victory to the community” Professor Belhaj added, and labeled the Islamic moral economy “disastrous”. The professor disclosed that “state law has no weight compared to the law of God” for Muslims, and so they establish parallel societies in Europe. This state of affairs is perfect for neoliberalism, Professor Belhaj argued, as Muslim zones in European states “disrupt social cohesion and peripheralise societies”. Professor Belhaj said elites in Europe “encourage migration and accommodate Islam” and described the harmony between Muslim migrants and neoliberalism as “structural, and not accidental”. The academic commented: “Migration is useful for the   model of the borderless, minimal, global society, but is calamitous for the European citizens as a whole. ” Professor Belhaj asserted that dignity, freedom of expression and the middle classes are “outdated” for neoliberalism. Neoliberals’ desire, he said, is for society to have “minimal cohesion” no middle class, and a state which doles out a “minimal income that should be used for consumption”. Belhaj, who has authored four books and had more than fifty studies published in international publications, cautioned that as a result of the globalist system, “sustained poverty   …     is going to be the fate of a considerable portion of people in the West” The professor noted: “European citizens see every day how immigrants evolve in a parallel economy and who display ethics that do not meet European ethical standards and do not serve local interests. ” Calling European “panic” over the migrant wave “justified and legitimate” Professor Belhaj said: “It is a moral panic of resistance to the   order, and rejection of the peripheralisation of Europe”.