Republican leaders are praising presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump’s reported pick of Indiana Gov. Mike Pence as his vice president (VP). [The NRA’s board member Ken Blackwell, who is also a senior fellow at the Family Research Council, called Pence a “home run choice” after reports emerged that Trump tapped Pence as his VP  —   although the billionaire hasn’t officially made the announcement.  “Mike Pence is a home run choice and by picking him Donald Trump gets an   for his first presidential decision,” Blackwell stated. He continued: Mike is a fellow Midwesterner and a fellow   conservative, and will be a huge help on both scores. Mike has been a successful governor and chief executive, he’s been a successful legislator in Congress and commands deep respect across the board in the Republican Party and across the aisle with the Democrats. He’ll be an exceptional asset as Mr. Trump’s running mate, he’ll help unify the party as we take the battle to the Democrats in the fall up and down the ballot. President and CEO of Concerned Women for America Penny Nance  —   like Blackwell  —   thinks Pence can help unite the Republican Party ahead of the general election. “Mike Pence spent 12 years Congress leading the charge on conservative issues including defunding Planned Parenthood,” Nance stated about Trump’s pick. “I look forward to working with him as Vice President. This is an excellent choice by Donald Trump, Mike Pence will be a unifying factor and conservatives will be very supportive. ” Susan B. Anthony List’s Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the the     organization, praised Pence’s   record: Mr. Trump’s selection of Gov. Mike Pence as his Vice President is an affirmation of the   commitments he has made and will rally the   grassroots. Gov. Pence is a proven   champion both during his time in Congress and as Governor of Indiana. It was Mike Pence who led the effort to defund Planned Parenthood in Congress, and it was Gov. Pence who signed into law a historic bill protecting unborn children from lethal discrimination in the womb. Mike Pence is a   trailblazer and Mr. Trump could not have made a better choice. Chairman of ForAmerica Brent Bozell, like Blackwell, says Pence is a “home run” pick for Trump. “The naming of Governor Mike Pence as his running mate is a homerun for Donald Trump,” Bozell stated. “It’s the best conservatives could possibly want. It’s a powerful signal, and a welcomed one. This was a top priority for conservatives, and Trump came through in a smashing manner. ” Trump plans to make his vice presidential pick official on Friday at 11 a. m. during a formal announcement in New York City. ***UPDATE*** Trump posted on Twitter that he is delaying his vice presidential announcement in light of the terrorist attack in Nice, France. In light of the horrible attack in Nice, France, I have postponed tomorrow’s news conference concerning my Vice Presidential announcement.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 14, 2016, 