Tuesday Evansville, IN, Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) said his rival Donald Trump was a “pathological liar” who “doesn’t know the difference between truth and lies. ”  Cruz said, “I’m going to do something  I haven’t done for the entire campaign. For those of you who have traveled with me all across the country. I’m going to tell you what I really think of Donald Trump. This man is a pathological liar. He doesn’t know the difference between truth and lies. He lies practically every word that comes out of his mouth. And in a pattern that I think is straight out of a psychology textbook, his response is to accuse everybody else of lying. He accuses everybody on that debate stage of lying. And it’s simply a mindless yell. Whatever he does, he accuses everyone else of doing. The man cannot tell the truth, but he combines it with being a narcissist. A narcissist at a level I don’t think this country has ever seen. Donald Trump is such a narcissist that Barack Obama looks at him and goes, ‘dude, what’s your problem?’ Everything in Donald’s world is about Donald. And he combines being a pathological liar, and I say pathological because I actually think Donald, if you hooked him up to a lie detector test, he could say one thing in the morning, one thing at noon and one thing in the evening, all contradictory and he’s pass the lie detector test each time. Whatever lie he’s telling, at that minute he believes it. But the man is utterly amoral. ” He continued, “The man is utterly amoral. Morality does not exist for him. It’s why he went after Heidi directly and smeared my wife, attacked her. Apparently she’s not pretty enough for Donald Trump. I may be biased, but I think if he’s making that allegation, he’s also legally blind. But Donald is a bully. You know, we just visited with fifth graders. every one of us knew bullies in elementary school. Bullies don’t come from strength, bullies come from weakness. bullies come from a deep, yawning cavern of insecurity. There is a reason Donald builds giant builds and puts his name on them everywhere he goes. ” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN