Welcome to Breitbart News’s daily live updates of the 2016 horse race.[ —    All times eastern. 8:33: Newt reportedly tells GOP lawmakers in Congress to learn from Trump. 8:15: Trump accuses Cruz campaign of spreading Melania’s GQ cover photo around in Utah.   On @FoxBusiness  —   Trump accuses Ted Cruz of sending Melania Trump GQ cover photo around Utah. pic. twitter.   —   Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) March 23, 2016,  8:09: Sanders: Corporate media’s “conflicts of interest” hurting campaign: “The media is an arm of the ruling class of this country and they want to talk about everything in the world except the most important issues,” he said during a live interview on The Young Turks Internet news show. “Because if you talk about real issues and people get educated on the real issues, you know what happens next, they might actually want to bring about change. ” 5:15: Tight race in Wisconsin: Wisconsin poll  —   Emerson College, GOPCruz 36%Trump 35%Kasich 19% DEMSClinton 50%Sanders 44%https:  .   —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) March 23, 2016,  4:35: Trump blasts Jeb!: I think having Jeb’s endorsement hurts Lyin’ Ted. Jeb spent more than $150, 000, 000 and got nothing. I spent a fraction of that and am first!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016,  4:33: Jeb! for Ted: Jeb! emails his list for Cruz pic. twitter.   —   Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) March 23, 2016,  4:30: Kasich says Trump will win if he drops out: ”Let me tell you: I drop out, Donald Trump is absolutely gonna be the nominee,” John Kasich told reporters in Wisconsin this afternoon.  —   Kailani Koenig (@kailanikm) March 23, 2016,  4:15: RNC on Clinton’s counterterrorism speech: Priebus: “Hillary Clinton and President Obama have been wrong about ISIS at every turn, which has resulted in more attacks and a more dangerous world. From her failed Libya policy, to her support for the president’s hasty withdrawal from Iraq, to her failed online counterterrorism program at the State Department, Hillary Clinton has backed policies that have enabled ISIS to grow into a global threat. Just today, President Obama claimed ISIS was ‘not an existential threat,’ despite its ability to launch attacks on American soil and use of chemical weapons. We need a president who will take a fundamentally different approach to defeat radical Islamic terrorists, not someone like Hillary Clinton who dangerously believes we ‘finally are where we need to be. ’” Trump on Clinton’s speech and “Lyin’ Ted. ” Just watched Hillary deliver a prepackaged speech on terror. She’s been in office fighting terror for 20   and look where we are!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016,  I will be the best by far in fighting terror. I’m the only one that was right from the beginning,  now Lyin’ Ted  others are copying me.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016,  3:38: Politico: Harry Reid: ‘Never, ever, ever underestimate Trump. ” He also slams Cruz for “plotting to be president since he was in elementary school. ” “Never, ever, ever underestimate Trump. No one should do that. I tried, others have tried. He’s a hard guy to predict,” Reid said in a telephone interview on Wednesday. “One of the most unorthodox candidates for the presidency in modern times. Certainly in modern times,   times. A real unusual deal we have here. ” Still, Reid would not say whether he would prefer that Democrats face Trump or Sen. Ted Cruz ( ). The minority leader said flatly: “I don’t think it matters. ” “You have one who has been plotting to be president for six or seven months. That’s Trump. You have Cruz, who has been plotting to be president since he was in elementary school,” Reid said.   3:25: NPR having reporters go through “Trump Training” sessions to deal with hostile crowds: NPR has sent its political reporters to     awareness training, which in its typical form lasts a few days and prepares journalists for covering war zones or regions where terrorists are active. News organizations, government agencies and nongovernmental organizations generally employ such training to help employees respond to such hazards as riots, mortar attacks, kidnappings or firefights. In this case, NPR’s   sessions might be called Trump Training. 3:15: Report: Top RNC official met with   career tacticians at Grover Norquist’s Wed. meeting. 3:08: Clinton at Stanford today in Northern California. Sanders at the wonderful Griffith Park (spectacular views) in Southern California: . @BernieSanders, his wife @janeosanders, and his Comms Director Michael Briggs in Griffith Park. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) March 23, 2016,  3:05: Clinton slams Cruz for wanting to treat Muslims like “criminals” and “racially profiling neighborhoods. ” She also blasts the “offensive” and “inflammatory” rhetoric that “demonizes Muslims. ” Clinton also says that torture does not work and puts our troops and civilians at risk. She says America will not “condone” or “practice” torture anywhere if she is president. Clinton quotes NYC police commissioner Bratton: ”He said Sen. Cruz does not know what the hell he’s talking about.”  —   Abby D. Phillip (@abbydphillip) March 23, 2016,  Clinton on Cruz’s call for patroling U. S. Muslim neighborhoods: “It’s wrong, it’s counterproductive, it’s dangerous. ”  —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) March 23, 2016,  2:57: Clinton says “if Mr. Trump gets his way, it will be like Christmas in the Kremlin” re: Putin’s desire to divide Europe. 2:52: Clinton on Cruz’s   strategy: . @HillaryClinton calls Ted Cruz ”carpet bomb” strategy reckless, saying: ”Slogans are not a strategy. Loose canons tend to misfire.”  —   Evan Halper (@evanhalper) March 23, 2016,  2:50: Clinton repeats line from last night: “How high does the wall have to be to keep the internet out?” She says the tech   must stop seeing each other as adversaries. She also takes a swipe at Trump: Clinton, knocking Trump, says ”we need to rely on what actually works, not bluster that alienates our partners  doesn’t make us any safer”  —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) March 23, 2016,  2:45: Clinton says “walls will not protect us” from ISIS. She says we can’t “contain ISIS” and we must “defeat ISIS. ” 2:43: At Stanford, Clinton reminiscing about bringing Chelsea to Stanford. Says granddaughter Charlotte would look good in Cardinal red. Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton speaking on counterterrorism at Stanford. pic. twitter.   —   Eric Thomas (@ericthomaskgo) March 23, 2016,  2:40: Ford defensive after Trump has attacked the company for moving plants to Mexico. 2:35: Heidi Cruz blasts Trump: Heidi Cruz says, ”there are a lot of things that Donald Trump and his campaign say that have no basis in reality.” pic. twitter.   —   Kailani Koenig (@kailanikm) March 23, 2016,  2:30: Paul Ryan doesn’t like the “ugliness” in politics. He thinks he can win over Americans with PowerPoint presentations. He says it’s time to “go bold” but rehashes the same   points. It’s fitting he spoke to inters, because he sounds like a career staffer. “Instead of playing to your anxieties, we can appeal to your aspirations. Instead of playing the identity politics of our base versus their base, we unite people around ideas and principles. And instead of being timid, we go bold. We don’t just resort to scaring you, we dare to inspire you,” Ryan reportedly said. But, as CNN noted, “much of Ryan’s message wasn’t new  —   he has a stressed similar themes in a speech shortly after his election last fall outlining a ‘Confident America. ’” 2:00: On CNN, Trump’s Senior Policy Adviser Stephen Miller blasts Obama’s   policy for allowing potential terrorists to enter the United States. 1:58: Cruz not worried his “New York values” line will hurt him in New  York’s primary: . @TedCruz says he’s ”not worried at all” that his ”New York values” gambit is going to hurt him in the New York primary.  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 23, 2016,  1:55: Tommy Thompson endorses Kasich: Right   former WI Gov. Tommy Thompson at the mic at John Kasich event in Wauwatosa #WISN12 pic. twitter.   —   Patrick Paolantonio (@ppaolantonio) March 23, 2016,  1:28: Obama joins the brouhaha over Cruz’ response to Brussels: . @POTUS criticizes @TedCruz’s call to police U. S. Muslim neighborhoods it makes ”no sense” https:  .  https:  .   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) March 23, 2016,  1:09: Cruz likens potential Trump loss in general to Mondale rather than Goldwater: At presser @tedcruz says GOP would see a ”Mondale” level bloodbath in the general if @realDonaldTrump gets nomination.  —   Christina Ruffini (@EenaRuffini) March 23, 2016,  1:00: Rolling Stone endorses Hillary over Bernie. Wow!! @RollingStone endorses @HillaryClinton for President, and what a resounding endorsement it is too! #Imwithherhttps:  .   —   Scott Nevins (@ScottNevins) March 23, 2016,  12:43: Kasich is still 7 state wins away from qualifying for the nomination: Cruz on Kasich: ’You can’t lose every state and expect to be the nominee’&gt&gt https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   WIBW (@wibw) March 23, 2016,  12:22: Get ready! Hillary’s gonna call us out. In Hillary Clinton’s terrorism speech today, she will call out   and rebuke Trump’s call to reevaluate ties with NATO.  —   Abby D. Phillip (@abbydphillip) March 23, 2016,  12:09: New York values. . @tedcruz goes after @realDonaldTrump on his home turf, calling out Trump for ”bankrolling” New York Democrats at rally in Midtown,  —   Lauren Gambino (@LGamGam) March 23, 2016,  Noted: Ted Cruz just ”y’all”ed a roomful of Manhattan voters,  —   Rebecca Sinderbrand (@sinderbrand) March 23, 2016,  12:06: Just never get a tattoo. Ever. So  …    an Arizona dude got a ’Trump Stamp’ in exchange for concert tickets (via @knixcountry) https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   ABC15 Arizona (@abc15) March 23, 2016,  11:49: Heidi Cruz fires at Trump: Heidi Cruz, in Waukesha, Wisconsin: ”You probably know by now that most of the things Donald Trump says have no basis in reality.”  —   Toby Harnden (@tobyharnden) March 23, 2016,  11:46: Math: To clinch the nomination  …     Trump needs 53% of remaining delegates. Cruz needs 82% of them. Kasich needs 116% of them.  —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) March 23, 2016,  11:19: Scott Walker puts his weight behind Cruz: Gov. Scott Walker: Ted Cruz is the only viable alternative to Donald Trump. https:  .   —   Molly Beck (@MollyBeck) March 23, 2016,  11:04: GOP delegate tells National Review that Cruz has the advantage in a brokered convention: Blunt language from an RNC committeeman from ND, who will be an unbound GOP delegate https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) March 23, 2016, 