In an exclusive interview with Breitbart News, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump blasted Bill Clinton’s suggestion that the United States use Syrian refugees to rebuild Detroit. [The populist billionaire denounced Clinton’s suggested proposal as “crazy” and “unfair” to American workers who are already living there and are in need of   jobs.  “It’s very unfair to the people that are living there. I think it’s crazy,” Trump told Breitbart on Thursday. “I mean, these people are getting started —  I think it’s a very, very hard place to get your start. ” “We shouldn’t have them [i. e. Syrian refugees] in the country,” Trump added. “We don’t know who these people are. We have no idea. This could be the all time great Trojan horse. We have no idea who they are. The whole thing is ridiculous. Number one: we should build safe zones over in Syria, that’s what we should have, and we should have the Gulf states fund them. It’s just crazy. We ought to be building safe zones in Syria and not taking these people in —   whether it’s Detroit or anywhere else. ”   and former GOP presidential contender Ben Carson echoed Trump’s sentiment in a Friday interview on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125. Carson explained that “we need to take care of our own people” and noted that the policies of Democrat politicians have turned many Americans living in Detroit into refugees in their own country. “There are plenty of people in Detroit who you could almost look at as refugees,” Carson said. “I mean, we need to take care of our own people. We need to create jobs for them. ” Clinton’s suggestion that the U. S. ought to give Detroit jobs to foreign refugees came during a February discussion at the Clinton Global Initiative with Chobani billionaire and mass migration enthusiast, Hamdi Ulukaya. “The truth is that the big loser in this over the long run is going to be Syria. This [i. e. the Syrian migrant crisis] is an enormous opportunity for Americans,” Clinton said in February.  “Detroit has 10, 000 empty, structurally sound houses  —  10, 000. And lot of jobs are to be had repairing those houses. Detroit just came out of bankruptcy and the mayor’s trying to do an innovative sort of urban homesteading program there. But it just gives you an example of what could be done. And I think any of us who have ever had any personal experience with either Syrian Americans or Syrian refugees think it’s a pretty good deal. ” During the discussion, Clinton praised Ulukaya for his efforts to fill his yogurt plants with imported foreign refugees. Ulukaya suggested that the U. S. ought to be taking in more refugees and said that he was “proud” of Turkey’s decision to accept 2 million Syrian refugees. Ulukaya told Clinton that Syrian refugees “bring flavors to the community just like in  …     Twin Falls, [Idaho]” where Ulukaya’s yogurt factory is based. Clinton’s controversial suggestion that U. S. give Detroit jobs to imported foreign refugees has received virtually no media coverage outside of Breitbart News. During his Wednesday immigration policy address, Trump challenged the media to begin asking Hillary Clinton to explain her “radical” immigration platform. The media needs to begin demanding to hear Hillary Clinton’s answer on how her policies will affect Americans and their security  …     These are matters of    for our country and its people, and we deserve answers from Hillary Clinton  …     What we do know, despite the total lack of media curiosity, is that Hillary Clinton promises a radical amnesty combined with a radical reduction in immigration enforcement. The result will be millions of more illegal immigrants, thousands of more violent crimes, and total chaos and lawlessness. According to Pew polling data, Hillary Clinton’s plan to expand immigration is opposed by at least 83 percent of the American electorate  —   voters whom Clinton has suggested are racist for opposing   immigration. According to a September 2015 Rasmussen survey, 85 percent black voters oppose Clinton’s refugee agenda to admit more than 100, 000 Middle Eastern refugees —  with less than one percent of black voters (. 56 percent) in favor of her refugee plan.