BEIJING  —   When Wang Ge, a business school student, wakes up, she often asks herself, “What would Ivanka do?” That would be Ivanka Trump, the eldest daughter of President Trump, a woman Ms. Wang has never met but worships. In the United States, Ms. Trump has become a controversial figure, battling persistent questions about business conflicts and criticism for not doing more to moderate her father’s policies toward women. But in China, Ms. Trump is widely adored. Her lavish lifestyle and business acumen resonate with many young professionals who are hungry for fame and fortune in a society that often equates material wealth with success. Ms. Wang keeps photos of Ms. Trump on her iPad. She counsels   friends to read Ms. Trump’s   tips (“Find strength in others” and “Be an optimist”). And she models her day on Ms. Trump’s, waking at 6 a. m. to increase productivity and setting aside at least a   to read. “She’s pretty, she has her own career, she’s hardworking and she has a beautiful family,” said Ms. Wang, 26, a student at Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business in Beijing. “She inspires me. ” While Mr. Trump, who meets President Xi Jinping of China in Florida on Thursday, has bluntly assailed China on issues like trade and North Korea, Ms. Trump has helped soften her father’s volcanic image. She is called a “goddess” on social media. A video of her daughter singing in Chinese went viral, attracting tens of millions of viewers. Working mothers have latched onto Ms. Trump’s brand of    feminism, even if most lack her financial resources, and entrepreneurs have studied her speeches for clues on making successful pitches. Xinhua, the official news agency, weighed in last week, describing Ms. Trump as having an “elegant and poised style. ” “A lot of people think Ivanka is the real president,” said Li Moya, 31, who runs an app for renting venue space in Beijing. “We think she has the brains, not her father. ” Young Chinese women working in sectors like technology and finance have been especially taken by Ms. Trump, whom they see as an elegant symbol of power and ambition. They say they have sought to mimic her tenacity and confidence as they confront chauvinism and stereotypes in the workplace and in family life. Many are also impressed by Ms. Trump’s decision to start her own fashion brand rather than simply focus on the family real estate business. “She’s very independent,” said Wang Jiabao, 28, a reality television producer in Beijing. “She represents what we’re looking for  —   to marry into a decent family, to look good, and to also have your own career. ” Some also believe Ms. Trump embodies Confucian values, pointing to her decision to convert to Judaism for her husband and her steadfast defense of her father, both seen as illustrations of a devotion to family. In China’s   urban centers, Ms. Trump’s tips on leading a balanced life (“Don’t sleep with your BlackBerry next to your bed,” says one) have found a large audience. On messaging apps, young professionals trade translations of her   guides, while working mothers share her advice on carving out time for loved ones. Chinese companies have also tried to profit from Ms. Trump’s popularity, filing hundreds of trademark applications using her name  —   Yi Wan Ka in Chinese  —   on products and services such as shoes, spa treatments, plastic surgery and pottery. Still, Ms. Trump has her critics. Some are skeptical of her father’s policies and disturbed by her decision to join his administration, in which she serves as assistant to the president. Others believe that as a child of privilege she is a poor role model for everyday Chinese people. “She’s trying too hard and pretending too much,” said Shi Yixuan, 22, an administrative staff member at Peking University in Beijing. But many women see recognizable Chinese attributes. “Underneath her image are very traditional values,” said Dai Linjia, a communications consultant. “Her family is almost like a dynasty. ” While her father has threatened a trade war with China and criticized China’s efforts to build outposts in the South China Sea, Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, have embarked on a charm offensive with the country. It helps that her daughter, Arabella, speaks Chinese, which she began learning from her Chinese nanny. Ms. Trump and Arabella attended a Lunar New Year festival at the Chinese Embassy in Washington in February, an event broadcast on China’s   news. On Tuesday, two days before her father was to meet Mr. Xi, Ms. Trump posted a photo of her younger son, Theodore, playing with wooden blocks emblazoned with Chinese characters. Analysts said Ms. Trump’s popularity could help ease the relationship between China and the United States at a tense time. “Her father is a regular critic of China, so Ivanka’s moves sort of compensate for that,” said Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing. “The Chinese government will see there are both ugly and positive messages coming out of the U. S. ” Many younger Chinese will be watching this week’s meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi for signs of Ms. Trump. Ms. Wang, the business school student, said she hoped that Ms. Trump could help improve China’s standing in the United States. “She’s a very good role model,” she said. “I think she can help the two countries grow closer. ”