Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz, a Polish parliamentarian from the ruling PiS (Prawo i Sprawiedliwość, or Law and Justice) party and one of the more prominent eurosceptic voices in the Polish parliament, has lead the chorus of disapproval against the failed German and EU immigration policy this week, which culminated in Poland demanding answers from Germany in the wake of the murder of a Polish citizen in Ansbach last Sunday and the numerous other terrorist acts. [The conservative MP has picked up on the fact the Germans went to great lengths to “cover up the crimes of their Arab guests, or even shift the blame upon themselves” ever since their arrival, for the sake of keeping the German public on Merkel’s side.  Prof. Pawłowicz further pointed out how in the interest of keeping the lefty spirits up, the “Berlin Gay Pride event went ahead despite the mourning in Munich” suggesting the Germans have already adjusted to the “new normal” of living with terrorism without even being instructed by their politicians to do so. That is in complete contrast to how the French dismissed the advice to “live with terrorism” by Manuel Valls. “Europe is ill and bleeding. We [Poland] survive with God’s help” said Prof Pawłowicz in the context of the World Youth Day celebrated by the Catholic youth currently converged from all over the world in Krakow, whilst pointing to the “white flag” and “colour pencil protest” attitude in France, Belgium and Germany, all of whom “rejected God in favour of a misunderstood liberty”. Picking up on the German CDU parliamentary deputy Armin Schuster’s statement that “Germany needs a culture of farewell (Abschiedskultur) as opposed to the culture of welcome (Wilkommenskultur)” Pawłowicz expressed her doubts that the “German culture still has it in it to win against the alien culture in the struggle for the European territory which we are witnessing”.  Commenting on Pope Francis’ homily in Krakow about “strengthening of Catholics’ faith” Pawłowicz implored that Poles “should continue to defend the Cross and continue to help the needy in the geographic locations where the help is needed”.  She made clear, however, that it is a Polish duty “to defend the Cross, not the Crescent” and that “if the Poles don’t survive in Poland [due to the immigrant invasion spearheaded by Merkel] then no one else will defend the Cross in their place” a powerful statement from a declared Catholic, and yet another Catholic voice seemingly at odds with Pope Francis’. These comments were made before Angela Merkel reinforced her stance on support for the uncontrolled immigration, despite the clear failure of that policy. Hence, even more criticism should be expected from Poland in the coming days.