An attorney for Donald Trump’s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski has a history of defending partial birth abortion and Planned Parenthood. [Kendall Coffey, a former U. S. attorney, tweeted the following in January when Center for Medical Progress (CMP) investigative journalists David Daleiden and Sandra Merrit were indicted for their work exposing Planned Parenthood’s apparent practice of selling the body parts of babies it aborts:  Indicted filmmakers in #PlannedParenthood case learned that undercover operations   false IDs are legally perilous. https:  .   —   Kendall Coffey (@Kendall_Coffey) January 28, 2016,  Indicting filmmakers and not Planned Parenthood reminds us that investigations follow the evidence and not the agenda of politicians.  —   Kendall Coffey (@Kendall_Coffey) January 26, 2016,  Two   law professors wrote the indictment of Daleiden and Merrit  —   instead of Planned Parenthood  —   amounted to “a stunning act of legal jujitsu” and was a “deeply disturbing” outcome both for the First Amendment and undercover citizen journalists attempting to expose corruption. Live Action News reports on Coffey’s response: As an attorney, Coffey should not have ignored the report that the Harris County grand jury did not even vote on Planned Parenthood’s case. Instead, while the grand jury was marketed as a way to discover what Planned Parenthood was really up to, it turned into a means of punishing the undercover filmmakers. Coffey should also take note of the fact that one of the Harris County DA’s top campaign contributors is the attorney of Douglas Karpen, one of the most dangerous   abortionists in the nation. Indeed, the evidence would point a reasonable person to conclude that the agenda of the abortion industry was being followed in the grand jury indictment, and little else. Coffey’s advocacy for abortion goes back even further. In 2006, he filed an amicus brief with the U. S. Supreme Court. Two cases  —   Gonzales v. LeRoy Carhart and Gonzales v. Planned Parenthood were before the high court at the time. Notably, Coffey’s brief was submitted in his role as “a former federal prosecutor” in support of Planned Parenthood and notorious   abortionist Carhart. Coffey had resigned from his position as U. S. attorney in 1996 after he was accused of biting a stripper on the arm. The Miami Herald reports: Coffey is a prominent lawyer and former federal prosecutor who, as national political reporters discovered Tuesday afternoon, resigned from his U. S. attorney gig in 1996, a few months after being accused of biting a stripper on the arm. He had lost a big drug case (a federal jury surprisingly acquitted Willie Falcon and Sal Magluta of smuggling 75 tons of cocaine). One night, he headed to the Lipstik Adult Entertainment Club in Kendall to soften the blow. He ordered a $900 champagne bottle, paid $200 for a private dance and then allegedly bit the dancer. He was ejected from the club. The Herald reported that, following the incident and Coffey’s investigation by the Department of Justice, CNN asked him to serve as a TV expert on the Elliot Spitzer sex scandal case. The report states: Billing him only as “a former U. S. attorney,” without any reference to how he achieved his   the network interviewed Miami’s Kendall Coffey, who had to resign the job in 1996 after biting a dancer during the process of running up a $900 bill at a strip club. Neither Coffey nor CNN anchor Tony Harris mentioned the incident at the strip club as they talked about Spitzer’s encounter with a prostitute in a Washington D. C. hotel last month. But Coffey’s observations on the case certainly had some ironic overtones for anybody who remembers his own brush with a lithe young blond stripper known as Tiffany in a private “champagne room” at the old Lipstik club on South Dixie Highway. He warned that it was Spritzer’s alleged attempts to cover up a transaction with the prostitute that would probably lead to the biggest legal problems. “This wasn’t a cash transaction where he reached into his pocket and paid some somebody for something that would have been illegal anyway,” Coffey said. “Apparently there was a byzantine maze of transfers, some of which may have been concealed. There may have even been attempts to use a certain amount of cash to avoid reporting requirements. ” That was precisely Coffey’s undoing in 1996. Ejected from the club after his failed attempt to kiss the stripper ended with him biting her instead, he used a credit card to pay the $900 bill. Later he sent his father to the bar to buy the   slip back at a premium price of $1, 200, which tipped the irate stripper and her    husband off that they’d been dealing with someone anxious to conceal his identity. Their complaints eventually attracted an investigators from the office of the U. S. Justice Department’s inspector general, and Coffey was soon toast. One other thing Coffey said on CNN that Spitzer might want to heed: “This is not survivable. ” In his amicus brief to the Supreme Court, Coffey defended some second trimester abortions (see medical animation below) and asserted the enforcement of the   abortion ban would cause doctors to think twice about performing any second trimester abortion at all.  Coffey argued in the brief that the phrase “living fetus” was “hopelessly vague. ” “As many courts have recognized in considering similar language, “reasonable physicians differ as to the meaning of what is ‘living,’” Coffey wrote. “Indeed, courts almost universally have found that the term ‘living fetus’ is unconstitutionally vague. It is unclear whether a ‘living fetus’ must be intact  …    ” Lewandowski was charged Tuesday with battery for allegedly grabbing Breitbart reporter Michelle Fields by the arm at Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter. The other attorney representing him is Scott N. Richardson of West Palm Beach, reports the Miami Herald. The Trump campaign had no comment in response to Breitbart News’ request.