TEL AVIV  —   With people killing in the name of Allah, Islam is the problem, Mosab Yousef, a former spy for Israel and the son of one of Hamas’ founders said on Sunday, adding that President Barack Obama’s failure to call out Islam for what it is only creates more terrorism. [Speaking at the Jerusalem Post’s annual conference in New York, Yosef, who is also known by the code name the Green Prince used by his Shin Bet security agency handlers, expounded on his respect and admiration for the Jewish people.  “The Jewish nation is dear to me and when I see nations fighting against the Jewish people it hurts me,” he said. The son of West Bank Hamas leader Sheikh Hassan Yousef, Mosab Yousef became an informant in 1997 and spent the next decade helping the Shin Bet foil terror attacks. During the height of the Second Intifada, Yousef was the agency’s most valuable asset. Yousef notes that at one stage he was on the payrolls of Israel, the U. S. the Palestinian Authority, and Hamas all at the same time. Yousef told the audience that he was raised to believe that Jews are the enemies of all humanity. He, too, bought into that worldview “until I came to experience what the Jewish nation really is   …     through witnessing the true democratic model in an ocean of darkness. ” “I came from hell,” he said. “I love what Israel stands for. ” He recounts how as a boy he had witnessed a Palestinian mother bless all her five children before sending them out to carry out suicide attacks, a diabolical move he said would earn her respect within Palestinian society. He then spoke of Islam as the scourge of modern society, a state of consciousness that is stuck in the 6th and 7th centuries in a tribal lust for power. “We cannot fool ourselves,” he said. “There is an Islamic problem. ” He listed off Islamic terrorist groups including Hamas, Hezbollah, Boko Haram, and Islamic State. “All of them are killing by the name of Allah,” he said. “The Muslim people have a problem, and their problem is in their belief system. ” “There is an Islamic problem and I think humanity needs to stand against this danger,” he added. He chastised the West for taking political correctness to the point of absurdity, saying that the world must face facts and unify against Islam’s corrupt belief system, as it did with Nazism. “The truth is that we are afraid and we are trying not to provoke them more, we are trying not to create a religious war. But there has been a religious war whether you like it or not,” the former spy said. “To tell them no, ‘Islam is a religion of peace,’ we just create the perfect climate for terrorists to keep on growing,” he said. The Son of Hamas also implicated Obama for playing a role in global terror. “When the president of the free world stands and says ‘Islam is a religion of peace,’ he creates the climate, he provides the climate, the perfect climate to create more terrorism,” asserted Yousef. Yousef also slammed the boycott Israel movement, calling BDS activists a “bunch of hypocrites. ” Yousef is known for his outspoken views on the religion of his childhood, with some pundits warning that the former informant is risking his life with his provocative comments. But that hasn’t stopped him. In an interview with this reporter, he even took on the Prophet Muhummad himself, saying that devout followers of Islam who wish to follow in their prophet’s footsteps will necessarily swing towards violence and extremism because that is how the prophet lived his own life. Watch the video here: In 1999, Yousef converted to Christianity and later fled to the U. S. where he was granted political asylum before writing his autobiography, The Son of Hamas.