Islamic State terrorists plan to take their struggle across the world in 2016 and push their fighters into a final showdown with liberal western democracies. [To that end hundreds of sleeper cells in “dozens of countries” will mobilise in an unprecedented bid to spark a huge military retaliation in the Middle East, according to one of the world’s leading authorities on the death cult.  The claim comes as fears grow of a New Year’s Eve terror plot in London and other major European cities including Paris and Brussels cancel or curtail their traditional celebrations to say farewell to the year. BREAKING: Brussels mayor: New Year’s Eve fireworks display canceled due to extremist attack threat.  —   The Associated Press (@AP) December 30, 2015,  The next 12 months will see a huge increase in both the number and scale of major terror attacks, Dr Theodore Karasik, a   analyst of regional   affairs who has extensively studied Islamic State’s behaviour, has revealed. He warned: “ISIS’s media operation is taunting its enemy to come to fight their Final Battle. “But first, it wants to show its global reach with zeal  …    from cells, to lone wolves, to bedroom jihadists  —   to target landmarks and crowds in dozens of countries across the world. ” Dr Karasik added that by his estimate there are close to 40 ISIS affiliates globally with millions of adherents and believers around the world. The New Year may ring in with disturbing terror attacks. He added: “ISIS is an airborne disease and still remains robust as the movement enters into a new combative and aggressive phase. “Many of us see the change of year as ‘turning over a new leaf’ and ISIS may do the same. “The level of ISIS’s destructiveness, to force confrontations across the world, indicates that 2016 is likely to be more chaotic than 2015. “The threat is real, and the requirement for international, regional, and local cooperation is truly necessary and will be tested again and again in perhaps unexpected places. ” As Breitbart News reported, Dr Karasik’s warning comes as two men suspected of being Islamic State militants were arrested in Turkey, allegedly for plotting a suicide bomb attack during New Year’s Eve celebrations in the capital of Ankara. The UK Daily Mail relayed Turkish media reports that the bombers were targeting Kizilay Square, also known as Red Crescent Square, which will be packed with revelers on New Year’s Eve. Earlier this week ISIS leader Abu Bakr   released an audio message threatening Israel while taunting the “Crusader” West for failing to launch a ground campaign against his terrorist organization. “Crusaders and Jews don’t dare to come on the ground because they were defeated in Iraq and Afghanistan,” Baghdadi stated in the   recording. Baghdadi vowed the establishment of an Islamic State caliphate in Israel. “Jews, soon you shall hear from us in Palestine which will become your grave,” he said.