Celebrities like Patricia Arquette, Steve Carell, Bryan Cranston, and others, plan to make wear gun control bracelets at the 2016 Oscars while benefiting from massive increases in armed security at the event. [The bracelets are part of a gun control push sponsored by the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence.  According to People magazine, the bracelets are “decorated in a simple black and gold design” and part of the Brady Campaign’s efforts to recruit celebs and other Hollywood “influencers” to join their push for gun control. The Brady Campaign is pressing Congress to pass universal background checks, among other things. Those checks are the law of the land in California, Colorado, and Washington State, where they have proven absolutely impotent to stop determined attackers. California witnessed the May 2014 Santa Barbara attack at the hands of Elliot Rodger and the San Bernardino terror attack on December 2, 2015 Colorado witnessed the Planned Parenthood gunman on November 27 and a high profile gunman on Halloween day and four people were killed by an unnamed gunman in Washington State on February 26, 2016 yet gun control advocates are pressing for these checks to be instituted nationally as a way “to stop gun violence. ” The Brady Campaign is also pushing for an increase in the categories of persons completely banned from gun possession. But this has also already proven powerless to prevent determined gunman from attacking. We were reminded of this on February 25, when a felon who faced a 100 percent ban on gun possession allegedly opened fire on his fellow employees at Excel Industries in Kansas, killing three. In addition to the fact that universal background checks —  and numerous other gun controls —  are a demonstrable failure, Arquette, Carell, and Cranston will bring added hypocrisy to the table by wearing their gun control bracelets while benefiting from layer after layer of good guys with guns at the Oscars. Deadline previously reported that the security at this year’s Oscars has been increased to such levels that it is being likened to “a military state. ” We saw a similar situation at the 73rd annual Golden Globe Awards in January, where gun control celebrities sat in comfort while good guys carrying   handguns and   with “high capacity” magazines roamed the grounds to keep them safe. How many mass shootings or   shootings might actually be stopped if we took the same approach nationally that Arquette, Carell, Cranston, and others take in Hollywood? Namely, by encouraging greater ownership of   handguns and   with “high capacity” magazines so the lives of ordinary Americans can be protected as readily as the lives of celebrities? AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.