Early Sunday morning, Islamic extremist Omar Mateen murdered at least 49 people at the Pulse gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida. [Mateen, of Fort Pierce, Florida, was interviewed by the FBI in 2013 and 2014 after he told coworkers he had ties to Islamic extremists. But Mateen was not found to be a threat, the FBI said, so he dropped off their radar.  A former coworker said company officials refused to investigate Omar’s frequent racist and homophobic attacks “because he was Muslim. ” So, once again, political correctness is linked to another Islamist massacre. Omar Mateen took time out during his mass slaughter of gays at Pulse nightclub to call 911 and pledge his allegiance to ISIS. Then he ended the call and killed some more gays. And it should be noted that Omar Mateen cased other gay clubs before he decided to kill gays at The Pulse on Latino night. After the deadliest Islamist attack on American soil since   Barack Obama blamed hatred and guns. His inability to called the attack what it is  —   Islamic jihad  —   has progressed from denial to psychosis. It’s never been more apparent than Sunday, when Barack was comparing the Pulse club attack to a movie theater shooting by a schizophrenic, that our poor president has lost his own grasp of reality. Obama was not the only one. Leftwing gay activists posted ridiculous and ignorant remarks after the deadliest single attack on gays in modern history. Activist Sally Kohn blamed all religions. EVERY religion has   of intolerant extremism. You can’t tell me the problem is religion. The problem is intolerant extremism!  —   Sally Kohn (@sallykohn) June 12, 2016, Gay personality Perez Hilton blamed the NRA. 50! FUCK YOU, @NRA! You have blood on your hands! Fuck you to every single gun lobbyist! And fuck you to those who don’t support gun reform!  —   Perez (@ThePerezHilton) June 12, 2016, I came out in the 1980s to family and friends during the AIDS epidemic. I saw a lot of friends get sick. I saw a lot of friends die. I went to a lot of funerals. It was a scary time to be gay. Like most gay Americans, I don’t wear my sexuality on my sleeve. I go about my daily business. I try not to harm anyone. I love my family. I love my friends. I love my country. I’ve been a conservative activist for years. But today I’m coming out as a conservative gay activist. In the past few years I’ve built one of the most prominent conservative websites in America. I created The Gateway Pundit because I wanted to speak the truth. I wanted to expose the wickedness of the left. I was raised to love my country. Today I serve my country by defending her from the socialist onslaught. But last night at least 49 gays were slaughtered at an Orlando club. Despite this obvious Islamic attack, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are still in denial. I can no longer remain silent as my gay brothers and sisters are being slaughtered at dance clubs. There is only one man who can lead this nation and protect all gays and all Americans. His name is Donald Trump. In 2015 a conservative Supreme Court granted gays the right to marry. In 2016 only one candidate will protect gays from another Islamist attack. I pray that gays will come back home to the Republican Party  —   no more death. Dear God, please no more death. As a gay person, the scariest words you will ever hear are “Allahu akbar. ”  —   Milo Yiannopoulos ✘ (@Nero) June 12, 2016, Jim Hoft is the publisher of Gateway Pundit. He received the Andrew Breitbart Award at the Right Online conference in 2015. Listen to Jim Hoft discussing this on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM Monday morning: 