An Imam has told his congregation in Wales that war is approaching and Islam allows them to take women as slaves and rape them. [Ali Hammuda is an Imam at Cardiff’s   Mosque, where three Islamic State (IS) fighters worshipped before travelling to Syria. They were known as the “Cardiff jihadis” before one was killed in an RAF drone strike as he was thought to be plotting attacks in the UK.  Before the strike, Reyaad Khan and Nasser Muthana, then both 20, appeared in an IS recruiting video in 2014 where they bragged about executing prisoners. Muthana’s younger brother Aseel, then aged 17, joined them in Syria. Rizwan Syed, an undercover reporter working for the Daily Mail, made the recordings. He recalled his time in the radical Cardiff mosque: “I saw books preaching brutal violence, sexism, homophobia, aggressive physical jihad, dismemberment and capital punishment implemented by the state. “It reinforces the idea that what these militant groups are doing, what IS is doing, is legitimised by history. ” In the audio, Imam Hammuda is heard telling a group of young men: “One of the interpretations as to what this means is that towards the end of time there will be many wars like what we are seeing today, and because of these wars women will be taken as captives, as slaves, yeah, women will be taken as slaves. “And then, her master has relations with her because this is permissible in Islam, it’s permissible to have relations with a woman who is your slave or your wife. ” He also stated that another interpretation of the Hadith is that children will come to treat their mothers like slaves. He said: “The one I think is strongest is that towards the end of time you will see a lot of Muslims disobeying their mothers and fathers  …     you see children speaking to their mothers and fathers as if they are your slave. ” More than 5, 000   Yazidi women and girls were abducted by Islamic State in 2014. Many have been trafficked and traded on slave markets. Surat   verse 24 of the Koran, reads: “And whoever among you cannot [find] the means to marry free, believing women, then [he may marry] from those whom your right hands possess of believing slave girls. ” 