On Friday’s Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon, Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke stood firmly by his   assertion that “Mrs. Bill Clinton is too morally bankrupt, and does not have the integrity, nor character, to be President of the United States. ”[“You know, I sat up there watching, and this is kind of one of the talking points, that Donald Trump is unfit to be President of the United States,” Clarke said. “Obama said the other day, or a week ago or so, that Mrs. Bill Clinton is ‘the most qualified person ever to run for President.’ I’ll give him this: he’d know about being unqualified, because he became President as one of the most unqualified people ever to run for that office. ”  “But I will say this as well about Mrs. Bill Clinton: the woman has no soul. The woman would sell her firstborn to become President of the United States. And I think that’s pathetic,” he said. “I’m afraid of people who thirst for political power so bad that they would do anything for it. ”  “This woman’s a pathological liar, she’s a   liar. She lied to the families who had loved ones killed in Benghazi,” he charged. “She stood over their caskets  —   I can’t think of a more morally bankrupt thing to do than something like that. She lied about the secret server. She lied to Congress about turning over these emails. ”  “James Comey confirmed, the director of the FBI, confirmed that she lied about the secret server and the destruction of emails. And she stood up, and looked Chris Wallace of Fox News in the eye, and said, ‘James Comey said I told the truth.’ He did not say that, and as a matter of fact, he said she was not truthful, which is a nice way in Washington of saying that somebody lied,” Clarke said.  “This woman is, like I said, morally bankrupt,” he stressed. “Her ethical elevator has no bottom floor. This shows you how fast, and how far, we’ve fallen as a country, that someone with her lack of character and integrity is actually within reach of the White House. You have got to be kidding me. ”  Sheriff David Clarke’s website is ThePeoplesSheriff. com, and he is also an active presence on Twitter under the handle @SheriffClarke.  Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN:  