With the Kellogg Company’s announcement that they pulled their advertising from Breitbart News because Breitbart isn’t “aligned with our values,” many consumers might wonder what those values are. The company’s namesake nonprofit organization, the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, offers the best glimpse into the cereal giant’s beliefs and a look at the writings and social media postings of the foundation’s Director of Racial Equity reveals expressions of sympathy for the murderous communist dictator Fidel Castro and antipathy towards police. [According to the W. K. Kellogg Foundation’s website, its Director of Racial Equity and community engagement is Rev. Alvin Herring. Rev. Herring’s LinkedIn resume shows he’s spent years as a director with the PICO National Network, one of many prominent institutional left activist groups funded in part by leftwing billionaire George Soros.  Rev. Herring paid tribute to Fidel Castro in a recent tweet: Rest in power #Fiidel,  —   Rev. Alvin Herring (@Alvin4Community) November 26, 2016,  In another tweet, Rev. Herring reposts an article called “Why black Americans love Fidel Castro” that praised Castro for pardoning convicted cop killer Assata Shakur. https:  .   —   Rev. Alvin Herring (@Alvin4Community) November 27, 2016,  In the article written by Hermano Fidel and tweeted by the Kellogg Foundation’s Rev. Herring, Castro is praised for harboring   black nationalist extremist JoAnne Chesimard, AKA Assata Shakur: When it came to matching words with deeds on the topic of racial equality, the most stalwart leader of the Western hemisphere, over the course of the 20th century, was Fidel Castro  …       …    It was Fidel who gave amnesty to Joanne Chesimard, known now as Assata Shakur, still wanted in the 1973 killing of a New Jersey state trooper, Werner Foerster, in a highway shootout. Shakur was convicted but was busted out of prison in 1979 by comrades. As a leading figure in the Black Liberation Army, which took bolder actions than even the Black Panther Party did, not only getting into gun fights with cops but holding up banks, Shakur became a legend in her time, a Robin Hood of the black masses. As Breitbart News has reported, Shakur was part of a group known as the Black Liberation Army, whose members killed a number of police officers in a nationwide reign of terror in the early 1970s. Shakur was tried and convicted of the murder of a New Jersey state trooper, but later escaped from prison with the help of a   radical group known as The Family, which included members of the Weather Underground. At that point, Shakur fled to Cuba, where she has been living in exile ever since. The author of the article that Herring retweeted goes on to call Fidel “a kind of Martin Luther King with power. ” Rev. Herring’s own writings show his willingness to blame law enforcement and side with rioters. In an article written by Rev. Herring for Sojourners in August of 2016 about the Ferguson protests, he shifts the blame away from the rioters and onto the police: Last night democracy was trampled not as the media would suggest by the angry footfalls of sullen youth determined to disturb the peace and wreak havoc in their own community, but by the heavy march of a police force that seemed determined to create tension and antagonize young people  —   young people who are carrying the trauma of nights of unrest and lifetimes of dehumanizing racism. Law enforcement was outfitted with the machinery of war. The officers wore military fatigues and carried automatic weapons. They were helmeted, with their faces obscured, and in the darkness they looked more like machines than human beings. They perched atop huge military vehicles with glaring lights and screeching sirens. It was otherworldly  —   and all of this to face down a group of wounded children, wounded tonight and many nights before this night. Sojourners has received major funding in the past from the   Open Society Foundation, as well as various other funders in the institutional left. The Discover Institute’s Jay Richards reported on Sojourners’ funding in an article on National Review:   …    it’s implausible for [Sojourners President and Founder Jim] Wallis to claim that grants between 2004 and 2007 totaling $325, 000 are “the tiniest fraction” of Sojourners’ funding. Besides the Soros grants, for instance, there are two 2006 grants from the infamous Tides Foundation totaling $72, 106 a Ford Foundation grant in 2008 for $100, 000 a Rockefeller Brothers Fund grant for $100, 000 in 2005 and a $50, 000 grant from the Wallace Global Fund in 2008. As Breitbart News has reported, the   groups the Tides Center and Tides Foundation, based in San Francisco, have received over 120 grants from the W. K. Kellogg Foundation. This story is developing  …     