Early reports out of Alpine, Texas indicate that a shooting has occurred at a local high school —  reportedly leaving one injured and one dead of   gunshot. [SUMMARY AS OF 3:08 P. M.  Brewster County Sheriff Ronny Dodson has confirmed that one female student was injured with a gunshot wound and was transported to Big Bend Hospital for treatment. She is reported in stable condition. The shooter, a female student, was found dead of an apparent   gunshot wound. KWES reports that the shooting suspect was a    freshman who had only been in attendance for six months prior and received top grades. Dodson noted that given the amount of ammunition found near the body, “it could have been a lot worse. ” No law enforcement were injured on the scene, contrary to original reports. Sheriff Dodson requested aid from the FBI for help in tracing a call related to a bomb threat made against nearby Sul Ross State University around the time of the shooting at Alpine High School. County officials have labeled   bomb threats against the University and local hospital to be false in nature. All Alpine ISD schools have reportedly released students to parents and guardians.  UPDATE 11:15 A. M. Law enforcement is on the scene in response to a bomb threat at Sul Ross State University.  UPDATE 11:12 A. M.   Is providing reports via Facebook live video.  UPDATE 11:11 A. M. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton released the following statement in response to the shooting: “I am currently monitoring the active shooter situation in Alpine. I have directed my office to offer any measure of support needed to assist the law enforcement officials currently working this case. I wish to extend prayers and sympathy to any victims’ families and their loved ones who have been affected by this senseless act of violence. ” UPDATE 11:05 A. M. An Alpine ISD school board member confirmed to NewsChannel 9 that “one student was shot and taken to an area hospital. An officer was also shot in the leg and it is unknown where he is receiving treatment at this time. A third person, identified only as a female, was also shot in the restroom at the school by what appears to be a   gunshot wound. That woman has been confirmed as deceased by the Brewster County Sheriff’s Office. ” UPDATE 10:43 A. M. Nearby Sul Ross State University reportedly on lockdown now as well. UPDATE: Officials at Sul Ross say they are now on lockdown due to an active shooter threat. https:  .   —   Local 2 News KMID (@Local2NewsKMID) September 8, 2016,  UPDATE 10:42 A. M. New reports indicate that one student was shot, one took their own life and one law enforcement officer shot in friendly fire.  ORIGINAL REPORT, The Brewster County Sheriff’s Office confirmed on Thursday morning that around 9:00 A. M. local time, reports were received regarding an active shooter at Alpine High School, putting the campus and surrounding school district buildings on “critical lockdown”. The BCSO could not confirm the sex of the reported injured person, nor their status as student, teacher or administrator. The type of injury was also unknown at the time of the initial report. Brewster County law enforcement currently believe there are multiple suspects still at large. The Alpine Avalanche initially reported that affected high school students were evacuated to a nearby church until the scene has been secured from additional threats.  Alpine ISD is located in far west Texas, serving roughly 1, 000 students, according to a district website. The small, mountain town is home to Sul Ross State University and is located roughly 80 miles from the   border by road. Breitbart Texas will continue to update this story when necessary. Logan Churchwell is the Assistant Editor and a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. You can follow him on Twitter @LCChurchwell.