As the NFL deals with athletes whose highly successful careers are marked by vicious plays or spitting on one another, one   but    player shows the world the true meaning of success. [The Tim Tebow Foundation and thousands of volunteers host the “Night to Shine,” an event taking place on Feb. 12 at over 200   in 48 states and eight countries where proms will be held for   people.  You are Invited to the Tim Tebow Foundation “ NIGHT TO SHINE. “ FEBURARY 12,   AT GWINNETT CHURCH, 300  …     https:  .   —     Center (@HiHopeCenter) January 13, 2016,  The event debuted in February 2015, with 44 proms, two of them in Uganda and Kenya more than 15, 000 volunteers joined the effort, according to People. This year the foundation’s website noted, “More than 70, 000 volunteers and 30, 000 honored guests share the same amazing prom experience on the same night around the world. ”   people aged 16 and older will be invited to wear tuxes and gowns with corsages and boutonnieres, visit hair and makeup stations, join in karaoke, walk on the red carpet, dance, and possibly be named king or queen of the prom. Last year Tebow attended two of the proms, in North Carolina and South Carolina he invited a woman to dance and even shined participants’ shoes. He told People, “Every time I think about it, I’m so humbled and amazed by the way God has continued to grow Night to Shine. I can’t wait for February 12th it’s my favorite night of the year. ” He added, “When I was 15 years old, I began to realize the importance of fighting for people who can’t fight for themselves. As a foundation, we are so passionate about people with special needs, and this event is a great time to tell them how much they are loved by God and by all of us. ” Erik Dellenback, the executive director of the Tim Tebow Foundation, told People, “We hope that the movement of Night to Shine not only transforms the way we think about Valentine’s Day, but also launches or enhances ongoing special needs ministries within churches around the world, And provides a place where our honored guests can be celebrated and loved throughout the year. ” Only Vermont and Delaware have not planned a “Night to Shine. ” The events, held in churches, are open to anyone with special needs. In order to participate as an invitee or volunteer, see here.