St. Landry Parrish Sheriff’s Office Captain Clay Higgins has released a video in which he references the members of the “Gremlins” as “thugs,” “animals,” and “heathens” who “will be hunted” and “tracked. ”[The video begins with Higgins in uniform, flanked by myriad other armed and uniformed law enforcement officers and leaders from the black community. Higgins looks into the camera and says those identified with the Gremlins “are responsible for hundreds of violent crimes: murders, armed robberies, witness intimidation, burglaries, drug trafficking, extortion, and brutal beatings. ”  He says the St. Landry Parrish Sheriff’s Office has “arrested ten of these thugs and [they] have warrants on seven more. ” Higgins then lists the seven wanted individuals —  referring to them as “animals” —  and warns they are “most definitely armed and dangerous. ” After listing the seven individuals —  Darren Carter, Aaron Carter, Travis Cooper, Cody Guidry, Jerran Diggs, Kirkland Demouchet, and Jonathan Landry —  Higgins says, “You will be hunted. You will be tracked. And if you raise your weapon to a man like me, we’ll return fire with superior fire. ” The camera then cuts to Higgins standing in a tactical vest with a pistol on his hip and an   strapped across this chest. He says, “Darren Carter, do you think men like these are afraid of an uneducated 125 pound punk like you that’s never won a fair fight in your life and holds your gun sideways?” He added: Young man, I’ll meet you on solid ground anytime, anywhere, light or heavy, makes no difference to me. You won’t walk away. Look at you, men like us, son we do dumbbell presses with weights bigger than you. And the convicts in jail, most of those men are good people who just found themselves   with the law. And they don’t respect you or any punk like you. They’ll toss you around like a rag doll. Higgins encouraged citizens to stir up their courage and report the whereabouts of Gremlin members. He then closed his video by addressing Gremlin gang members directly, saying, “You don’t like the things I’ve told you tonight? I’ve got one thing to say. I’m easy to find. ” AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.  