MONTGOMERY, Ala.  —   Gov. Robert Bentley engaged in an “inappropriate relationship” with his chief adviser, then used intimidation tactics and deployed state law enforcement officials in an effort to cover it up, according to a bruising report released Friday in support of the effort to impeach him. The report also claims that the   governor tried to pin nonexistent crimes on a top law enforcement official. The release of the   report by a special counsel to the state House Judiciary Committee is almost certain to further imperil Mr. Bentley, an avuncular physician and former Sunday school teacher. Mr. Bentley, a Republican, has vowed to fight to keep his office despite a steady drip of embarrassing and sometimes salacious details that have fueled a scandal that has embarrassed this conservative state and all but consumed its political culture for the last year. Despite mounting calls from members of his own party that he step down, the governor won a significant battle Friday afternoon when a local judge granted a   temporary restraining order Mr. Bentley had sought. The order effectively blocks impeachment hearings that were set to begin Monday in the Legislature, which is dominated by Mr. Bentley’s own party. In many other ways, it was a very bad week for the governor. On Wednesday, the Alabama Ethics Commission found probable cause that he had violated ethics and campaign laws, and referred the case to a local district attorney for possible criminal prosecution. A separate inquiry, already underway, is being led by a special prosecutor appointed by Alabama’s attorney general. This week, both Senate President Pro Tem Del Marsh and House Speaker Mac McCutcheon, both Republicans, called on the    Mr. Bentley to resign. State Representative Corey Harbison, another Republican, said that he was worried about the possible violation of laws, but also the distraction the scandal has caused, and its damage to the state’s reputation. “It is a terrible black eye for the state,” said Mr. Harbison, who has called for Mr. Bentley’s ouster. When Mr. Bentley was sworn in as governor in 2011, it seemed almost impossible to conceive of a politician with less potential for drama. He was   and long married and had earned wide respect as a dermatologist in his hometown, Tuscaloosa. Whatever Mr. Bentley’s fate, it is unlikely to shake the dominant Republican Party here. The state is simply too conservative to see mass defections to the Democrats. And he has not been viewed as a particularly powerful governor. Before 9 a. m. Friday  —   hours before the release of the report  —   Mr. Bentley appeared on the Capitol steps minutes after his office alerted reporters that he would be speaking. The governor spoke of how he had put his fate in the hands of a higher power, mentioning the word “God” nine times in under seven minutes. He said he had done nothing illegal, and he apologized directly to the people of Alabama: “There’s no doubt I have let you down,” he said. He also warned there were more “embarrassing details” to come. Headline writers have taken to referring to Mr. Bentley as the “Love Gov,” over the accusation that he had engaged in an affair with his former senior political adviser, Rebekah Caldwell Mason  —   an accusation both Mr. Bentley and Ms. Mason deny. For months now, residents have had to endure a leaked audio recording of Mr. Bentley in conversation with a woman  —   said to be Ms. Mason  —   in which he describes embracing her and placing his hands on her breasts. The governor could also be heard saying, “If we’re going to do what we did the other day, we’re going to have to start locking the door. ” The report issued Friday involved interviewing 20 witnesses and 10, 000 pages of documents. In the report, Jack Sharman, the special counsel, noted that Mr. Bentley and his associates, including Ms. Mason, refused to cooperate. The governor, Mr. Sharman said, refused to turn over all state documents investigators requested, while his campaign committee turned over no documents. “The Committee may consider the Governor’s   as an independent ground for impeachment,” the report stated. The report also notes that in Alabama, a gubernatorial impeachment investigation is not a criminal one, and that impeachable offenses “may include but are not limited to crimes. ” The report described a chief executive racked with “increasing obsession and paranoia,” but one who also did little to hide his relationship with Ms. Mason from his inner circle. When his wife was able to make the clandestine recordings of Mr. Bentley speaking “provocatively” to Ms. Mason, the report states, “Governor Bentley’s loyalty shifted from the State of Alabama to himself. ” Mr. Bentley worried the recordings would become public, the report stated, and embroiled law enforcement officers in the drama, directing them, among other things, to investigate who might have copies” and to identify potential crimes which they could be charged. He also encouraged “an atmosphere of intimidation” to ensure that no one spoke of it, the report stated. Ms. Mason, meanwhile, exercised “extraordinary policy authority while receiving hundreds of thousands of dollars from Governor Bentley’s campaign account and from an apparently lawful but shadowy nonprofit,” it stated. The speculation about an affair came to light in March 2016, after the governor fired Spencer Collier, the head of the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency. Mr. Bentley said he had fired Mr. Collier after a review uncovered “possible misuse of state money” at the agency. The Alabama attorney general’s office opened an investigation, only to close it in October, noting that “no witness had established a credible basis for the initiation of a criminal inquiry in the first place. ” Soon after his firing, Mr. Collier held a news conference in which he accused Mr. Bentley of having an affair with Ms. Mason, whom he described as Alabama’s “de facto governor. ” The report accuses Mr. Bentley of “prematurely and publicly” accusing Mr. Collier of criminal misconduct, with the “likely” purpose of demonizing him. It also noted that Mr. Collier has since been cleared of wrongdoing. It is unclear when a new impeachment timetable will be established. Lawyers said that Greg Griffin, the circuit court judge who issued the restraining order, could issue an order laying out an impeachment process that would address the governor’s concern that he was not granted proper due process. If the State House, which would take up the matter first, votes to impeach, Mr. Bentley will be temporarily removed from office while the Senate deliberates his ultimate fate. If Mr. Bentley is charged and convicted by the Montgomery County district attorney, he will face a   to   prison sentence and a fine of up to $20, 000 for each of the four potential violations. This year, Mr. Bentley sparked concerns among some lawmakers when he appointed Luther Strange, a former state attorney general, to the Senate seat vacated by Jeff Sessions, who left to become President Trump’s attorney general. Mr. Strange had been overseeing an investigation of Mr. Bentley, and his successor has appointed a special prosecutor to take over the investigation. But Mr. Harbison, the Republican state representative, said that the appointment could give the perception that Mr. Bentley was trying to derail the inquiry. Today, Mr. Bentley’s private life appears to be as complicated as his public one. His wife filed for divorce in August 2015. Ms. Mason resigned last year. Her husband remains the director of the Governor’s Office of   and Volunteer Service, and the couple traveled with Mr. Bentley to Washington, for Mr. Trump’s inauguration in January. Ms. Mason could not be reached for comment. Her lawyers said in a court filing last year that she had “done nothing wrong, either civilly or criminally. ”