Some of Hillary Clinton’s top celebrity supporters are pulling out all the stops in one final attempt to change the results of Tuesday night’s presidential election, adding their names to and promoting a petition calling for electors in the Electoral College to go against state voters’ wishes to make the Democratic candidate president. [Celebrities including Lady Gaga, Pink, Amanda Seyfried, Sia, Jeffrey Wright and Laverne Cox have circulated a Change. org petition drawn up in the days following Donald Trump’s historic presidential election victory.  The petition, written by one Elijah Berg from North Carolina, had already gathered more than 3 million signatures as of Friday evening. “Mr. Trump is unfit to serve. His scapegoating of so many Americans, and his impulsivity, bullying, lying, admitted history of sexual assault, and utter lack of experience make him a danger to the Republic,” the petition reads. “We are calling on the Electors to ignore their states’ votes and cast their ballots for Secretary Clinton. ” If you feel scared about the current state of American politics and Whitehouse sign this petition: https:  .   —   #CountryOfKindness (@ladygaga) November 10, 2016,  Electoral College Electors: Electoral College Make Hillary Clinton President on December 19  —   Sign th  …     https:  .  via @Change,  —   P! nk (@Pink) November 11, 2016,  Nearly 3M have signed. Sign it, at the very least, to send a message that the fight against Trump did not end Nov 8. https:  .   —   Jeffrey Wright (@jfreewright) November 11, 2016,  Electoral College Electors: Electoral College Make Hillary Clinton President on December 19  —   Sign th  …     https:  .  via @Change,  —   Amanda Seyfried (@AmandaSeyfried) November 11, 2016,  Electoral College: Make Hillary Clinton President on  . Sign HERE: https:  .    —   Team Sia,  —   sia (@Sia) November 11, 2016,  Electoral College Electors: Electoral College Make Hillary Clinton President on December 19 https:  .  via @Change,  —   Rosie Perez (@rosieperezbklyn) November 10, 2016,  Trump won a decisive victory in the Electoral College Tuesday night and could finish with 306 electoral votes to Clinton’s 232. However, the Electoral College does not officially cast its votes for president until December 19, giving optimistic celebrities and Clinton supporters hope that its members could go against the wishes of their state’s voters and instead switch their votes to Clinton. Some of the celebrities circulating the petition have been vocal in their opposition to Trump’s election to the presidency. In a tweet Friday, Wright, the star of HBO’s Westworld, urged his supporters not to compromise and instead to “fight. ” Never. Never acquiesce to this Presidency or his misogynist racist illogical policy prescriptions or to his indecency. No compromise. Fight. https:  .   —   Jeffrey Wright (@jfreewright) November 11, 2016,  “Never. Never acquiesce to this Presidency or his misogynist racist illogical policy prescriptions or to his indecency,” he wrote. Shortly after the election was called for Trump early Wednesday morning, Lady Gaga hopped on a sanitation truck outside Trump Tower to protest the results. The singer had appeared with Clinton at her campaign’s final rally in North Carolina. Trump’s election has set off ongoing protests across the country, with demonstrations occurring in New York City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Boston and Washington D. C. among other cities.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum