A large group of   turned violent after a massive thunderstorm led to the cancellation of a Slipknot and Marilyn Manson concert at the First Niagara Pavilion in Burgettstown, Pennsylvania on Saturday. [Marilyn Manson was reportedly moments into to his opening act for the rock band Slipknot when the storm knocked out the power at around 7:45pm.  “He kept having to stop a couple times,”   reporter Scott Mervis wrote. “The crowd was getting drenched. The water was coming into the Pavilion. Like, the rain was going sideways, so the water was just, like, raining on everybody in the entire venue. ” Mervis said there was an initial delay that lasted for about an hour and a half.  But by 10:00 p. m. the First Niagara Pavilion had announced a full cancellation of the show on its Facebook page: “Due to the power outage tonight, we are unable to continue the Slipknot concert. We apologize for the inconvenience. Information regarding the show being rescheduled   refunds will be communicated within 48 hours here or the Live Nation website. ” After the cancellation, the crowd reportedly quickly grew restless. A Pavilion employee, who quit after the cancelled concert, told   “People were threatening to shoot up the place, there were fights, police were getting involved. They threw things everywhere. We have fences along the lawn, they took the fences along the lawn and threw them down the hill. They were taking anything they possibly could, bashing in windshields. ” Slipknot singer Corey Taylor tweeted his apologies for the canceled show Saturday night: “To everyone at the PA show tonight: I’m SO SORRY we couldn’t get the power back on. I promise we’re going to do our best to reschedule. ” To everyone at the PA show tonight: I’m SO SORRY we couldn’t get the power back on. I promise we’re going to do our best to reschedule.  —  CT,  —   Jalapeno Throat, LLC (@CoreyTaylorRock) July 31, 2016,  Marilyn Manson also took to Twitter to express condolences to his fan for the canceled concert. Sometimes when you ask for the thunder, you get caught in the storm. #prayforpittsburg,  —   Marilyn Manson (@marilynmanson) July 31, 2016,  It was unclear how many event attendees were arrested. As for rescheduling the show, Taylor tweeted on Sunday, saying, “PITTSBURGH FANS! We’re quite close to rescheduling! More info to come in the next couple days! Not Tomorrow, but in the months to come!” PITTSBURGH FANS! We’re quite close to rescheduling! More info to come in the next couple days! Not Tomorrow, but in the months to come!  —   Jalapeno Throat, LLC (@CoreyTaylorRock) July 31, 2016,  Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson