Lt. Governor Gavin Newsom is facing a growing backlash from the LGBT community over his use of the word “disgusting” in a Facebook post in which he dismissed a transgender woman’s concerns over gun control. [Newsom suggested the woman  —   and by extension all LGBT groups opposed to gun control  —   have simply been exploited by the NRA. He wrote:  The NRA group in California is using the Trans community to fight our common sense gun safety initiative. Using the Trans community to fight their battle of lies is arguably one of the most disgusting things they’ve ever done. Many LGBT supporters came away with the conviction that Newsom’s language suggests “Nicki from Fresno” cannot think for herself, or that her concerns over being disarmed are not genuine. San Diego Gay and Lesbian News (SDGLN) published just a few of the responses to Newsom’s post: So Gavin Hasn’t heard of the Pink Pistols? They aren’t an NRA group, they’re a group dedicated to helping the LGBTQ community protect itself. Educate yourself before you bash the LGBT community.  —   Cameron Barker, ‘Using’ them Gavin? Is that how you see the trans community, as gullible people to be used for you own ends? Or are they only allow to have opinions and views if they meet your approval?  —   Paul T. Nordberg, Nicki has been a longtime supporter of the 2nd amendment and has been active with the Pink Pistols since their founding as far as I remember. Don’t try to pin this on the NRA or act like Nicki’s efforts just came about recently in response to your proposed limitations on law abiding citizens. You act like the LGBTQ community is now being victimized by the NRA, when it is you that is trying to turn them into victims.  —   Charles Dahlen, SDGLN also points out that the Pink Pistols  —   another gay rights group opposed to Newsom’s gun control push  —   is “not associated with the NRA,” although they have worked with them on select legal matters in the past. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.