We’re 11 weeks into the Trump administration. What’s the Senate like these days? I think that the institution  —   and I do mean all 535 people, but particularly the hundred in the Senate  —   is filled with really nice and   people. I’ve been there 27 months. But who’s counting? My average duration in a job is more like six months, because I’ve done crisis and turnaround stuff for two decades. I’ve been in a lot of companies and    and institutions that were really on fire in a lot of ways, the Senate is the least urgent, least serious institution I’ve ever worked in. There’s this constant fighting. You should agree on what you’re arguing about before you argue: We are either going to work at our house tonight or we’re going to make dinner together and play music in the living room or we’re going to go out to eat and go to a movie. But the problem is that, at this particular juncture, there’s also a question of whether this hypothetical movie theater even exists. Why are you playing to this outdated, modernist idea that there are objective facts? [Laughs.] What is wrong with you? We do have to agree on some basic facts, despite this general reluctance to grant them legitimacy. Yeah, it’s a huge problem. I sit in the late Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s seat on the Senate floor. He’s the author of the saying, Everyone’s entitled to their own opinion, but you’re not entitled to your own facts. Look at trade and automation: two competing but slightly overlapping forces in the shrinking of the duration of jobs right now. We have to be able to talk honestly about how disrupted this world is going to be, and it is crazy to mislead people and say we’re going to bring back all of the big factory jobs by creating a protectionist regime. That isn’t true. Do you think that infighting creates a situation in which everyday Americans write off all politicians as cheaters and liars? It might explain how Donald Trump won, because it didn’t make any difference to anybody that he seemed immoral  —   they thought of him as no worse than every other politician. I would argue pretty vociferously that it’s also because of who his opponent was. If Joe Biden would have run against Donald Trump, Biden would have won in a landslide. You have been a constant critic of Trump, even during the primaries. I campaigned with pretty much anybody not named Trump or Huckabee. Including Ted Cruz. Your book, which argues that America’s youths are largely coddled and ill equipped to compete in the global economy, is full of references to ancient history and philosophy. Are you trying to unseat Cruz as the intellectual of the Senate? I don’t see what I’m trying to do as trying to be the intellectual in the Senate. What is it that you’re trying to do? I’m the third or fourth most conservative guy by voting record in the institution, and yet most of the stuff I care about is not really partisan. We have had no foreign policy for the past 28 years for dealing with a   War world. And now you layer on nonstate actors, like jihadis, who have a presence in a quarter to a third of all the countries in the world, and the governments in those countries aren’t the main source of power anymore. But that isn’t anywhere near what keeps the spies and generals up at night, about how cyberattacks will transform war and create all these gray areas that aren’t quite war but are warlike. I cannot, for the life of me, imagine what the obvious    answer looks like, with the divide between the two parties in trying to figure out a   strategy in this new age.