The executive director of Wreaths Across America, Karen Worcester, told Breitbart News Daily Sirius XM host Matt Boyle on Tuesday, “The cutoff for Arlington is December 14. We’re just a few thousand short” to cover every headstone at Arlington National Cemetery with a fresh evergreen wreath on December 17, which is National Wreaths Across America Day. [Breitbart News also highlighted the group’s cause just Monday in an effort to help them reach their goal:  The executive director of Wreaths Across America, Karen Worcester, joined Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Monday to discuss National Wreaths Across America Day, which is December 17, and to explain how people may get involved to help the deeply patriotic organization. She also thanked Breitbart News readers and listeners for being “instrumental” in helping the group meet its goal of placing a wreath on every headstone at Arlington National Cemetery last year. Part of the group’s mission, as described on its website, reads, “Each December on National Wreaths Across America Day, our mission to Remember, Honor and Teach is carried out by coordinating   ceremonies at Arlington National Cemetery, as well as over 1, 100 additional locations in all 50 U. S. states, at sea, and abroad. ” There are several ways to help them reach their objective of covering as many military heroes’ graves as possible with a wreath on December 17. Along with planning to cover every grave at Arlington, the group is also instrumental in getting wreaths placed on the graves of veterans buried in more than 1, 200 cemeteries across America. A gift as small as $15 can sponsor a wreath for Arlington or at a cemetery and graveside of one’s choosing. Wreaths Across America is a     501c3, whose purpose is “to remember the fallen, honor those that serve, and most importantly, to teach kids the value and the cost of what freedom is,” said Worcester. Please see the Wreaths Across America website for additional ways to help the effort. LISTEN: Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern.