Top soccer officials from the United States, Mexico and Canada have scheduled what they billed as a “historic announcement” for Monday in New York  —   the clearest indication yet that the countries will mount a joint bid to host an expanded   World Cup in 2026. For several years, plans for a joint bid have been the   secret in Concacaf, the regional confederation to which all three nations belong. The United States lost out to Qatar in bidding for the 2022 tournament when that vote was taken in 2010, and U. S. Soccer President Sunil Gulati has worked tirelessly in the years since to cultivate the support and the personal relationships inside FIFA, world soccer’s governing body, to bring the event back to the United States. The United States last hosted the World Cup in 1994, a   tournament that still holds the tournament’s attendance record (just over 3. 5 million) despite a later expansion of the field to 32 teams. The tournament will expand again for 2026, to 48 teams, under a plan approved by FIFA’s governing council in January. That plan has drawn scorn from critics who fear it will water down the field, and praise from countries that rarely get to take part. But nearly everyone agrees that an expanded event, especially one held in North America, would be the most profitable in the history of the world’s most popular sporting event. The United States, which had considered bidding alone, is expected to take a leading role in any 2026 campaign by virtue of its existing stock of stadiums, training facilities and infrastructure. Sites in Mexico and Canada most likely would host a smaller number of matches. It is unclear if all three countries would be granted direct entry into the field. Under a proposed allocation of the places for the 2026 tournament announced in late March, Concacaf’s allotment of guaranteed World Cup berths would double  —   to six from three. The proposal, which is subject to FIFA’s approval in May, would still give a guaranteed place to the host country, at the expense of its confederation’s full allotment. But in the event of   the decision of how many automatic places to give to host nations would be left to the FIFA council. Either path should be of little worry to the United States and Mexico: The Americans have played in every World Cup since 1990, and Mexico in every one since 1994. They routinely finish near the top of qualifying under the current format. But Canada last qualified in 1986, and its recent performances suggest that barring some drastic improvement, it may require a guaranteed place to take part in its own party. The bidding process will last about three years under a   plan announced in 2016. The process will culminate in a decision in May 2020, but the Concacaf bid will be an overwhelming favorite. Last year, FIFA affirmed rules that will bar Europe and Asia from bidding for the 2026 event because their confederations will host the next two tournaments. That rules out challenges from England and China, among other potential rivals, and FIFA’s other confederations  —   representing South America, Africa and Oceania  —   would be   to put together a plan that could challenge the resources available to a Concacaf campaign.