Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has praised Communist dictator Fidel Castro as a “legendary revolutionary” and “remarkable leader” after the former Cuban leader’s death Friday night. [Mr. Trudeau said that he learned of Castro’s death with “deep sorrow” paying tribute to him as a “larger than life leader who served his people for almost half a century”.  “A legendary revolutionary and orator, Mr. Castro made significant improvements to the education and healthcare of his island nation,” the Canadian prime minister said. Although acknowledging the dictator was a “controversial figure” Mr. Trudeau added: “Both Mr. Castro’s supporters and detractors recognized his tremendous dedication and love for the Cuban people who had a deep and lasting affection for ‘el Comandante’. ” The Canadian prime minister’s words came as exiled Cubans took to the streets of Miami in celebration at the dictator’s death. MSNBC showed jubilant   waving flags and cheering after learning of the death of a man they saw as an oppressor. Mr. Trudeau went on to say that his father, who served as Canadian prime minister between 1968 and 1984, was “proud” to call one of America’s staunchest enemies a friend, adding: “I had the opportunity to meet Fidel when my father passed away. “It was also a real honour to meet his three sons and his brother [current Cuban dictator] Raúl Castro during my recent visit to Cuba. ” He concludes: “On behalf of all Canadians, Sophie and I offer our deepest condolences to the family, friends and many, many supporters of Mr. Castro. We join the people of Cuba today in mourning the loss of this remarkable leader. ” Since his election, Justin Trudeau has been trying to portray himself as being at the forefront of social liberalism, to the point of championing a bill to make the country’s national anthem gender neutral. Castro’s Cuban regime was notorious for imprisoning dissenters, including homosexuals, journalists, and political opponents, and nearly brought nuclear war to the United States, one of Canada’s closest allies.