Democrats vote in Oregon and Kentucky, and Bernie Sanders has the potential to cause even more chaos if he sweeps tonight’s contests. On the GOP side, Trump will seek to add 28 delegates in Oregon to inch closer to the 1, 237 delegates he needs to officially wrap up the nomination. But since Trump is the presumptive nominee, there will be much more drama surrounding Trump’s interview with Megyn Kelly that will air tonight than Oregon’s results. Stay tuned to Breitbart News for live updates.   —   All times eastern. 11:42: “Bernie or Bust. ” I’ve never seen that   CA crowd starts chanting ”Bernie or Bust” repeatedly  holding signs that say the same. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) May 18, 2016,  11:39: Sanders projected to win Oregon: BREAKING: Bernie Sanders is projected winner in Oregon Democratic primary https:  .  #Decision2016 pic. twitter.   —   NBC News (@NBCNews) May 18, 2016,  11:37: Sanders blasts the Koch brothers and Sheldon Adelson and says Americans are “sick and tired of billionaires” running the country. 11:32: Sanders says he is from the working class and “I will be damned if we will allow the Republican Party  …     to win the votes of   Americans. ” Bernie speech tough on DNC but tacitly offers rapproachment with HRC when he pledges he’ll be ”damned” if Trump wins working class.  —   Matthew Cooper (@mattizcoop) May 18, 2016,  11:30: Sanders, after blasting Trump like he has been doing on the stump for his comments about Hispanics and birtherism, says the Democratic leadership (crowd boos) can open its doors and allow people who want to change the system and fight for real economic and social change or choose to maintain the status quo and be a party with limited participation and limited energy. He says that will be a party that will allow a   extremist Republican Party to capture the votes of a majority of working people. “Open the doors, let the people in,” Sanders tells the Dem. leadership. 11:16: Sanders says “this is the beginning of the final push to win California. ” He says that there are a lot of people out there who say that Sanders should drop out (crowd boos) and the people of California should not have the right to determine who the next president will be. But Sanders says “we are in it until the last ballots are cast. ” Sanders says nobody can predict the future but he thinks he has a “real shot” of winning primaries in the states coming up. He says don’t tell Clinton “because she might get nervous,” but “I think we are going to win here in California. ” 11:15: Sanders also thanks the people of Kentucky. He says though he is not all that enthusiastic about closed primaries, where independents are not allowed to vote, he will end up with about half the delegates from Kentucky. 11:13: In Carson, California, Sanders thanks Danny Glover: Danny Glover intro’s Sanders  …    calls for taking movement into the future. Crowd flaps angel wings. Get it? pic. twitter.   —   MaryAlice Parks (@maryaliceparks) May 18, 2016,  11:05: No Surprise: Trump projected to win Oregon primary. 11:00: Polls have closed in Oregon and both races, for now, are “too early to call. ” 10:55: Team Sanders seems confident about chances in Oregon: The general sentiment at Sanders HQ is that @BernieSanders will win #OregonPrimary. https:  .   —   Eder Campuzano (@edercampuzano) May 18, 2016,  I just checked into @BernieSanders HQ in Northeast Portland. Lots of volunteer chatter. TONS of murals. pic. twitter.   —   Eder Campuzano (@edercampuzano) May 18, 2016,  Of course, there’s #BirdieSanders. pic. twitter.   —   Eder Campuzano (@edercampuzano) May 18, 2016,  10:50: Huge Sanders crowd in Southern California: After beginning his day in Puerto Rico, @BernieSanders prepares to greet his large evening Carson, CA crowd. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) May 18, 2016,  10:39: Interesting (Maximum contribution an individual can give to the victory fund in these states is $449, 400: Arkansas, Connecticut, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wyoming): Virginia is the only swing state in the   joint fundraising agreement: no Florida, Ohio, Colorado, New Hampshire, Nevada, etc.  —   Gabriel Debenedetti (@gdebenedetti) May 18, 2016,  10:23: On MSNBC, DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz says Dem. activists do not deserve to be threaten or feel like they can’t set foot outside of their home. She says the behavior of Sanders supporters is “outrageous” and “unacceptable. ” She says the Sanders campaign seems to be excusing the actions of their supporters, which she says is also unacceptable. 10:15: McCaskill Tweets apology after saying that Trump couldn’t break 40% in the Kentucky primary today (Kentucky GOP had its caucuses in March): Whoops. Embarrassing brain freeze. Forgot that Ky Republican primary was in March and not today. Apologies to GOP.  —   Claire McCaskill (@clairecmc) May 18, 2016,  9:30: Lots of money for Clinton speeches: HRC made $1, 475, 500 from 6 paid speeches between   2015. The last speech was just weeks before announcing her candidacy.  —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) May 18, 2016,  9:28: Clinton apparent winner in Kentucky: NBC News projects Hillary Clinton is apparent winner of Kentucky Dem Primary,  —   Jesse Rodriguez (@JesseRodriguez) May 18, 2016,  9:17: With 99% reporting, Clinton leads Sanders by about 2, 500 votes. Earlier, Trump said Clinton should drop out of the race if she loses Kentucky: 99% reporting in Kentucky, Clinton leads Sanders by ~2, 500 votes. pic. twitter.   —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) May 18, 2016,  Do you think Crooked Hillary will finally close the deal? If she can’t win Kentucky, she should drop out of race. System rigged!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 17, 2016,  9:10: Clinton campaign releases Clinton’s financial disclosure form and calls Trump out on his tax returns. Clinton camp just released HRC’s financial disclosure form, taking opportunity to call out Trump on his tax returns pic. twitter.   —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) May 18, 2016,  9:05: Sanders now up by 200 votes: 93% of Kentucky in, Sanders leading by about 200 votes  …    .. pic. twitter.   —   Joe Sonka (@joesonka) May 18, 2016,  8:55: Clinton up in Kentucky by 126 votes: 93% of precincts reporting and Sanders leads now by 126 votes,  —   Jamie Dupree (@jamiedupree) May 18, 2016,  8:35: Clinton clinging to slight lead in Kentucky: Remember, as results come in, that Clinton spent far more time  money in KY than most expected. 85% of precincts in, she’s up 47. 2% . 2%.  —   Gabriel Debenedetti (@gdebenedetti) May 18, 2016,  8:22: Kelly reveals Trump now has her cell phone number and Trump won’t use it “for evil. ” Trump says if he doesn’t win the White House, he will consider it to be a “total and complete waste of time, energy, and money. ” Trump claims Kelly’s questions weren’t “soft. ” ”@ragdollive: @megynkelly @realDonaldTrump what’s with the soft wimpy questions? !? It’s not a therapy session . .!!” Not really soft at all!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 18, 2016,  8:21: Trump says Kelly probably had some nasty Tweets sent her way while they were feuding. He says he has an unbelievable relationship with his fans. “Excuse me,” Trump says when Kelly asks about Trump’s “bimbo”  . Trump says Kelly probably has had worse things said about her. He says Tweeting is the modern form of combat. 8:20: Trump says he just views himself as a person who is “just fighting for survival. ” He says he is now a messenger for millions who have been disenfranchised. 8:16: Trump says he has “great respect” for Kelly that she called him and asked for a meeting. Trump says he wouldn’t have done it. Kelly says this is the first that she and Trump have discussed what has happened because they have not spoken in nine months. Trump says “absolutely he has regrets” but overall he has to be happy with the outcome. He says he could have used some language differently. But Trump says he may not have succeeded if he had been “soft” and not “fought back the way I fought back. ” 8:15: “Let’s talk about us,” Kelly says. She says she thought her question to Trump was a “fair question. ” Trump says the first question he has ever been asked was a “statement” and not really a question. Trump says he doesn’t really blame Kelly but he doesn’t really have to like it from his standpoint. Trump says Kelly may have done him a favor because he realized if he could get through that gauntlet, he could get through anything during the campaign. 8:11: Kelly asks how parents can tell their kids not to taunt and bully when the GOP frontrunner does all of those things. Trump says he is a   who has been responding to what other candidates have said to him. He says it’s not a   street. 8:10: Trump says he has never been bullied but people have to “get over it” and “fight back. ” 8:09: Kelly asks Trump about his late brother, who told him not to drink. Trump says he has never had a glass of alcohol but admits he has a lot of other problems. When asked if anyone has hurt him emotionally, Trump cites the death of his brother. Kelly keeps asking Trump if someone has done anything to hurt him and Trump says when he is wounded, he goes after people hard and tries to “ ” himself. 8:08: When asked if he has made any mistakes during the campaign, Trump says he “could have done without” the Heidi Cruz. Trump says it’s not healthy to constantly go back and say whether that wasn’t good, etc. when asked about his comments about Carly Fiorinia’s face. 8:07: Kelly asks Trump if he could go four years without threatening to sue anybody. Trump says it’s a “tactic” for him. 8:06: Trump says it is his “honor” to sit down with Kelly for the interview. Kelly asks Trump when it occurred to him that he could actually be president. Trump brings up the debates. He says millions were watching and he felt very comfortable debating various subjects with his competitors. 8:03: Kelly rehashes Trump’s   (“bimbo”) and attacks against her but acknowledges that the pundits were wrong about Trump’s demise. “It didn’t matter what he said or how he said it,” she says in the   to the interview. 8:01: Kelly says that she and Trump did not speak for nine months after the first GOP debate. Kelly says Trump perfected the “art of the insult. ” 7:47: “Capitalism alive and well” at Sanders event in Southern California: Capitalism alive and well @BernieSanders rally. Lemonade $7 and water is $5.  —   David Montero (@DaveMontero) May 17, 2016,  7:45: Rand thanks voters in Kentucky for primary win. He’ll face Lexington Mayor Jim Gray in the fall: AP calls Lexington Mayor Jim Gray as winner of Democratic primary for US Senate. Gray will face Rand Paul in Nov. ^JC,  —   Bluegrass Politics (@BGPolitics) May 17, 2016,  7:40: Compton for Bernie:   @BernieSanders swag at Carson rally. It’s $20 to represent Compton, btw. pic. twitter.   —   David Montero (@DaveMontero) May 17, 2016,  7:35: Big crowd for Sanders in Southern California: Starting to let @BernieSanders supporters into rally in Carson. https:  .   —   David Montero (@DaveMontero) May 17, 2016,  7:01: Sanders has slight lead in Kentucky (nearly 15% of the votes in) as polls are now closed across the state. 6:48: David Axelrod calls on Sanders to speak out “more forcefully. ” . @BernieSanders should speak out more forcefully against the threats  histrionics in NV, which were unworthy of inspiring race he’s run.  —   David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) May 17, 2016,  6:45: TX Gov Abbott feels strongly TX Republicans will turn out for Trump: . @GovAbbott reiterates Texas Republicans will turn out for Trump. ”I feel very confident that Texas is in the Trump column,” Abbott says.  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) May 17, 2016,  6:42: Nevada Dem. Chair Roberta Lange tells MSNBC’s Chris Matthews that the Sanders campaign “aided and abetted” the disruptors at last weekend’s convention. 6:03: In the key swing state of Virginia  …     So far 3, 933 felons have registered to vote as a result of @GovernorVA orderhttps:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Roanoke Times (@roanoketimes) May 17, 2016,  5:47: On CNN, Sen. Jeff Sessions ( ) promises that Trump is going to shake Washington up, will protect American workers, and ensure that we have a lawful system of immigration that serves the national interest. He says that Republicans should all join behind Trump. Sessions says that if Trump seeks to make a deal with Kim Jong Un, he will certainly not be disadvantaged because there hasn’t been anybody who has run for president in years who can negotiate more effectively than Trump. 5:43: Establishment GOP operatives Danny Diaz (Jeb!) and Alex Conant (Rubio) still seem shellshocked on MSNBC that Trump is the presumptive nominee. Conant says that nobody took Trump seriously when he first entered the race. Operatives on Team Bush and Team Rubio didn’t, and that was political malpractice from operatives who have always been tone deaf to the GOP primary electorate. Breitbart News, though, took Trump’s candidacy —  and how his message on illegal immigration would resonate with the primary electorate —  very seriously. 5:39: Clinton’s deputy communications director says Jennifer Rubin’s (the Washington Post’s resident dunce) blog post about Trump’s “dangerous” foreign policy is worth a read: Worth a read: Clinton is right about Trump’s dangerous foreign policy https:  .   —   Christina Reynolds (@creynoldsnc) May 17, 2016,  5:32: Trump will   tonight while his interview with Kelly airs. I will be live tweeting my interview with @megynkelly on the Fox Network tonight at 8! Enjoy! pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 17, 2016,  5:30: On MSNBC, Dr. Ben Carson tells Chuck Todd that the names of potential running mates have been submitted and Trump is making a decision during the vetting process. He says he doesn’t have a “significant” role in the selection process. Carson says it is important to have someone aligned with Trump and is a “lover of the American Constitution” while understanding “fiscal responsibility. ” Todd, being pesky to Republicans in a way he rarely is with Democrats like most in the mainstream press, keeps asking Carson if the Trump campaign will ask potential running mates for their tax returns. 5:15: Nevada Dems. say Sanders “is failing to adequately denounce the threats of violence. ” Let’s see if the media spend weeks demonizing Sanders like they attempted to do to Trump. Fresh @nvdems stmt: The ”Sanders campaign is continuing to be dishonest  …    and is failing to adequately denounce the threats of violence”  —   Alex   (@aseitzwald) May 17, 2016,  5:10: In an interview with Reuters, Trump says he is willing to talk to North Korea’s Kim Jong Un to stop the nation’s nuclear program, plans release a detailed economic policy platform in two weeks, will virtually dismantle   and will call for a renegotiation the Paris climate deal. 5:05: Trump’s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski tells CNN’s Anderson Cooper that Trump has a proven history of treating women well and says the New York Times hit piece on Trump was libelous. 4:55: Bill Clinton decides not to respond to Trump’s Tweet accusing him of being the “worst” abuser of women in history. Asked to respond by @ktumulty, Bill: ”No. I won’t. I think people are smart enough to figure this out   my help.” https:  .   —   Gabriel Debenedetti (@gdebenedetti) May 17, 2016,  4:53:   Super PAC releases conventional attack ad against Trump. Clinton’s team may be treating Trump like a traditional politician with these ads, but they may realize that voters see Trump more as an   than a politician and that is why he may be immune to these types of ads that work against politicians with low name identification.  4:50: On CNN, Nevada Dem. Chair Roberta Lange revealed that she is receiving threats every second and says the violence is “going to Philadelphia” based on “the texts and emails I’ve received. ” She says she has sent a letter to national Democrats warning them to prepare for potential disruptions. Lange also accused “ ” Sanders supporters of inciting violence last weekend in Nevada. 4:45: Sanders condemns the violence at the Nevada Dem. Convention. He also claims that “shots were fired into my campaign office in Nevada. ” “Our campaign of course believes in   change, and it goes without saying that I condemn any and all forms of violence, including the personal harassment of individuals,” Sanders said. “But, when we speak of violence, I should add here that months ago, during the Nevada campaign, shots were fired into my campaign office in Nevada and apartment housing complex my campaign staff lived in was broken into and ransacked. ”