When House Speaker Paul Ryan ( .) allows a gun control vote next week it will be focused on reviving Senator John Cornyn’s ( ) already rejected,   gun legislation. [On June 30, Breitbart News reported that Ryan used a conference call to inform House Republicans of his intentions to allow the gun control vote. Roll Call covered the call but no details on the gun control legislation were available.  Politico now reports that the vote will center around Cornyn’s already rejected gun bill a bill that “[requires] the Justice Department to go to court to prove ‘probable cause’ that a person is involved in terrorism before he or she is barred from purchasing a firearm. Law enforcement agencies would have 72 hours to try and stop the gun sale. ” The House Republican gun control vote will also call for “an annual review of terrorist ‘watch lists’ kept by the FBI and other federal agencies. ” Breitbart News previously reported that CNN, the Boston Globe, the Los Angeles Times, and The Washington Post criticized the use of the   list to begin with. The Globe specifically asked why individuals on the list are allowed to continue to walk freely in society, especially if they are suspected of posing a threat too great to allow them purchase a firearm or get on an airplane. The Globe observed: If people on the   list and the even more comprehensive   watchlist pose such an urgent threat to national security, why haven’t they been arrested? If horrors like the San Bernardino massacre could have been prevented by incapacitating the individuals on the watchlists, surely it is sheer recklessness to do nothing until they try to board a plane or buy a gun. The Senate voted down four gun bills on June 20, including the one put forward by Cornyn. On June 22, House Democrats launched a     demanding a gun control vote. Ryan says there will be a vote next week. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.    