Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is enjoying the chance to needle Donald Trump, but her attacks sound a lot like those made during the GOP primary process by many of his vanquished Republican opponents. [She began attacking Trump for his comments about veteran prisoner of war Sen. John McCain, moved on to Trump University, and finished the week by shotgunning fear about his ability to handle foreign policy.  “He has the gall to say that prisoners of war like John McCain aren’t heroes,” Clinton said, echoing former Governor Rick Perry who said that Trump’s comments about McCain “should completely and immediately disqualify him” for running for president. “Trump U was a fraudulent scheme where Donald Trump enriched himself at the expense of hardworking people,” she cried during a rally in California last week, asserting that it was “just more evidence that Donald Trump himself is a fraud. ” Rubio followed the same path, asserting that “Trump University was a fraud” and that Trump was a “ ” perpetuating a scam on the American people. Cruz also seized on Trump University, reminding voters that “allegations of fraud” would send Trump to the witness stand. “The Trump University litigation that he defrauded thousands of people with a fake university, took their money, scammed them, that’s scheduled to go to trial this summer,” Cruz said in April. During her foreign policy speech, Clinton taunted Trump for his use of Twitter, asserting that his character was too unpredictable to successfully lead the nation on foreign policy. “We all know the tools Donald Trump brings to the table  —   bragging, mocking, composing nasty tweets  —   I’m willing to bet he’s writing a few right now,” she said, calling him “unprepared” and “temperamentally unfit” for office and highlighting his comments about dictators. Cruz also mocked Trump’s use of Twitter to paint him as an unserious candidate for president. “I know it is surprising to Donald Trump, but tweeting ugly pictures at ISIS is not gonna cause them to go away,” Cruz said. “Yelling and screaming and cursing at them and telling them what big hands you have is not going to cause ISIS to go away,” he added. Clinton earned glowing praise from   liberal pundits after her Trump speech, just as the Republicans thrilled their supporters and the media who took on Trump. Glowing   cheerleaders who praised Clinton’s speech last week should be cautious. Echoing recycled attacks from vanquished Republicans might end up with the same results.