Weekend talk radio host and Breitbart Jerusalem bureau chief Aaron Klein on Sunday personally offered $10, 000 to an   caller if he could name another Middle Eastern country aside from Israel where all citizens are provided similar democratic rights. [The stumped caller, who went by the name of Peter in Brooklyn, could not provide an answer to the challenge despite being given three opportunities to do so.  “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio” is broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and Philadelphia’s NewsTalk 990 AM. Listen to the full audio of Klein’s $10, 000 challenge here: The ordeal began when Klein, a U. S. citizen who broadcasts his popular weekend American radio show live from Tel Aviv, took Peter’s call and the caller claimed Israel was not a democracy and that supporting the Jewish state was not in America’s interests. Klein responded: Explain to me, because this is what I don’t understand, Peter in Brooklyn. How is Israel’s interests not in U. S. interests? Israel, the only democracy in the Middle East. Israel fighting Iran getting a nuclear capability, which would be a threat to the entire free world. Israel fighting   fighting ISIS, fighting Hamas. Explain to me how that is not in American interests, Peter in Brooklyn. Peter repeated his claim that Israel does not espouse democratic values and that its   citizens are not afforded equal treatment. Klein then offered the challenge, starting off with a $1, 000 reward. Klein stated: If you can name by the way any other country where Arabs, Muslims, Jews, Christians all have the exact same democratic rights, I will pledge on the air to give you a thousand dollars. If you can name another country in the Middle East where Arabs and Jews and Christians are treated with equal rights. Where gays can roam freely and do whatever they want. Where women are treated freely. One country in the entire Middle East and I’ll give you a thousand dollars, guaranteed. Go for it, Peter. “Well, the fact of the matter is this. First of all,” Peter began to respond before Klein interrupted. “What fact of the matter, Peter?” Klein chimed in. “I’m asking you a specific question because you are saying that Israel does not uphold democratic values and is not a democracy. ” Klein upped the ante to $5, 000 for a factual response. Peter then claimed that according to an “unwritten constitution” Israel’s president and its supreme court justices must be Jewish by law. Israel does not have an unwritten constitution, no such law exists, and one of Israel’s current supreme court justices, Salim Joubran, is an Arab Christian. Klein then upped the ante to $10, 000 if Peter could name another Middle Eastern country where all citizens have similar democratic rights. “Name one. Ten thousand dollars, Peter!” exclaimed Klein. “The Middle East is not Europe, is not a democracy,” replied Peter. Peter claimed that American Jews were buying off politicians to support Israel and that there was even a Zionist plumbers’ conspiracy. Stated Peter: In America, many American Jews give large amounts of money and the main purpose is to promote Israel. They even disguise the money. There are some organizations claiming the American Plumbers Association. They claim to be plumbers and their main agenda is Israel. Klein retorted sarcastically, “I’ll have to look into the Zionist conspiracy of the American plumbers  …    ” The radio host took issue with the caller’s comments about American Jews. “I don’t think that’s the case,” stated Klein. I think American Jews, a lot of them could care less about Israel. The exact opposite, you know. You’ve got J Street. You’ve got all these Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions campaigns against Israel. They are all being led by radical Jews. After Peter left the show, Klein told his listeners, “That was some pretty interesting radio. Ten thousand dollars right there. Couldn’t name a single country. ”