Indiana Governor Mike Pence (R) announced his endorsement of Republican presidential candidate Texas Senator Ted Cruz on Friday’s broadcast of Garrison, Greg Garrison’s show on Indianapolis radio station WIBC. [Pence said that he likes and respects all three Republican candidates, and commended Donald Trump for giving voice to people frustrated with DC, and his “strong stand for Hoosier jobs. ”  Pence then stated, “I’m not against anybody, but I will be voting for Ted Cruz in the upcoming Republican primary. ” He added, “I’m a Reagan conservative. I, literally, when I was a teenager, I was active in Democrat politics, and then I started hearing the voice of that former California governor, who articulated an agenda of principles, of less government, less taxes, traditional values, and a strong military, and I was drawn to the Republican Party. And throughout my career, in Washington, DC and now here as governor of Indiana, those have been the principles that have really animated my service. And I sought to support them at every turn, but also, I’ve looked for opportunities to support men and women who have the courage to stand on those Reagan principles. And I see Ted Cruz as a principled conservative, who’s dedicated his career to advocating the Reagan agenda. And I’m pleased to support him.   …     I really admire the way Ted Cruz has been willing to stand up for taxpayers in opposing runaway spending, deficits, and debt, calling for and leading on repealing Obamacare. And I also have to tell you, I’m very impressed with Ted Cruz’s devotion and knowledge of the Constitution of the United States, of the freedoms that are enshrined there in our Bill of Rights, from our liberties, to our Second Amendment, and of course, I appreciate his strong and unwavering stand for the sanctity of life. But, it’s for those reasons, and just as much in support of the principles that have always animated my public service, that I’m voting for Ted Cruz in the upcoming Republican primary. ” Pence further said Cruz has “shown the courage of his convictions. It’s not a popular thing in Washington, DC to take the leadership on the leadership of your own party. ” He also stated that he would support whoever wins the Republican nomination, and that he was confident the party would unite around whoever ends up winning the nomination. Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett