HOUSTON, Texas  —   A Houston area mother is under investigation after posting a video of her kicking her    out of the house. She told him, “Since you voted for Donald Trump, you can get your s*** and get out. ”[The young boy starts to sob and his mother responds, “  the suitcase is packed by the door. Been packed since this morning. Bye!”  She then hands him a sign and says the sign will tell people why he is standing out at the curb. The sign says, “my mom kicked me out because I voted for Donald Trump. ” The little boy’s crime  —   he voted for Donald Trump in his elementary school’s mock election.  The mother shouted at her son, “You want to vote for him, I’m gonna show you. ” She keeps telling him “Bye!” “We don’t do Donald Trump here, get your suitcase. ” “Bye, Donald Trump lover,” she says sarcastically. She tells the little boy he is going to be out at the curb from now on. The video, posted on Facebook, has caused shock and anger among those who have viewed it. At least one woman said she notified the police. Those viewing it have spread what they think is the name of the mother, and, have even posted what is supposed to be her address and phone number. They have also posted what they think is the grandmother’s name. On the video, the mother asked her son why he voted for Trump, and he replied “because I see him on TV a lot. ” His sibling, still in diapers, starts to cry as the mom yells at the boy, and kicks him out the house. The poor boy is crying hysterically but she leads him to the street curb with his suitcase and the sign saying he had been kicked out and why. The video has gone viral and received over 10 million views in 24 hours after Friday, reported KHOU TV in Houston. The YouTube video has received over 870, 650 shares as of Sunday morning. The boy is now in the possession of Child Protective Services after the video came to the attention of the Fort Bend County Sheriff’s Department. KHOU reported that a detective said that the mother has apologized for the video but also said she was just joking. Law enforcement authorities were reported to say that the video is disturbing but her actions are not a crime under the penal statutes. Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.