In an “open letter” to Democratic Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, a group of leading black Christian clergy and intellectuals are denouncing Clinton’s complicity in America’s abortion crisis, which it says has had a “catastrophic impact” on the black community. [The 26 prominent black Christian leaders, including eight African American bishops, assailed Clinton for what they call her “unconscionable silence in the face of such destruction of innocent black life,” through her vigorous support of the U. S. abortion industry.  “Black babies are dying at terrifying rates,” states the letter, a copy of which was sent to Breitbart News. “Don’t black lives matter?” On Monday afternoon, Dr. Jacqueline C. Rivers presented “An Open Letter to Hillary Clinton Regarding Religious Freedom for Black America” to Clinton Campaign Headquarters in Brooklyn, requesting a meeting with Clinton to discuss several critical issues in the black community, including “justice for the unborn. ” “Secretary Clinton, we are also very concerned about your position regarding unborn children and the black church’s commitment to defend them,” the letter declares. Two weeks ago, Clinton reiterated her unflagging defense of    and Planned Parenthood. “I will defend Roe v. Wade,” she said, “and I will defend women’s rights to make their own healthcare decisions. ” In their letter, the leaders noted that the rate of abortion among blacks is far higher than among whites, with “365 black babies aborted for every 1, 000 that are born. ” “Blacks account for roughly 38% of all abortions in the country though we represent only 13% of the population,” they said, citing statistics that have led black Christian leaders to speak of a “black genocide” occurring at the hands of abortionists. The authors of the letter also lament that in New York City, in recent years there were more abortions among black women in the city than there were black babies born. “Both nationally and in New York City, the abortion rates among black women are much higher than among any other demographic group,” they stated. The signers also underscored that abortion “is the deliberate destruction of a human life in its most vulnerable state,” contrary to both natural law and biblical principle, held by the “vast majority of black churches. ” The leaders said that that they “oppose the violent denial of life to the unborn through abortion,” which is a “logical outgrowth” of our view that there must be justice for all. ” “Particularly relevant is the innocence of the unborn child,” they stated. “What policies would you pursue as president to reverse the soaring abortion rates among black women?” They are not holding their breath. Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter  Follow @tdwilliamsrome