While Latin   Pope Francis arrived at the U. S.  border and lectured about immigration policy, unmentioned in the pontiff’s address or the media’s coverage of his address is the fact that the U. S. has accepted more immigrants from around the world than any other country, including vastly more than all of Latin America put together. [According to analysis from the U. S. Senate Immigration Subcommittee, although the U. S. has roughly half the population of Latin America, it houses six times as many migrants. According to the UN, the U. S. hosts 45. 8 million migrants compared to all 21 Latin American nations’ 7. 8 million migrants, the analysis states:  The U. S. contains about 4. 5 percent of global population but hosts about 20 percent of the world’s global migrants.  As a matter of comparison, Latin America contains nearly twice as much of the world’s population  —   more than 8. 5 percent  —   but houses only about 3. 35 percent of the world’s migrants.  While the United States takes in   of global migrants, no other nation on earth has taken in more than  . Indeed, the Pope’s home country of Argentina alone  —   which boasts a population of 41. 5 million  —   houses less than one percent of global migrants. The United States has taken in  24 times  more migrants than has Argentina. In the United States, nearly one out of every seven residents is foreign born. By contrast, in Argentina only one out of every 22 residents is foreign born. The disparity can be seen when compared to other countries as well. For instance, in Mexico, only 0. 9 percent of its population is foreign born, or one out of every 110 residents. This means the United States has taken in 40 times more of the world’s migrants than has Mexico. In Brazil, only 0. 3 percent of its population is foreign born —   or one out of every 334 residents. This means that the United States takes in 75 times more migrants than does Brazil. Moreover, the U. S. has accepted 10 million more migrants from outside its borders than the European Union has absorbed from outside its borders, even though the EU has 200 million more people than the United States. Unfortunately, no amount of immigration will ever make a dent in global poverty. According to the Pew Research Center, there are nearly five billion people   living on $10 or less a day. The globally poor and   population is fifteen times larger than the entire population of the United States. The flow of unskilled labor, however, has had a devastating impact upon black workers in the United States. Since 1965, the U. S. has added 59 million immigrants. “Competition from immigration accounts for approximately 40 percent of the   point decline in black employment in recent years,” U. S. Civil Rights Commissioner Peter Kirsanow has documented. “That’s nearly a million jobs lost by blacks to immigrants. ” Harvard Professor George Borjas has analyzed that “a 10%   increase in the supply of a particular skill group is associated with a reduction in the black wage of 2. 5% a reduction in the black employment rate of 5. 9 percentage points, and an increase in the black institutionalization rate of 1. 3%. ” Meanwhile, as the U. S. continues a federal policy of mass migration, communities have been infiltrated by large   criminal organizations such as   and the Mexican Mafia, which has resulted in enormous bloodshed and heartache in American communities.