Hillary Clinton’s campaign has held an official, “women’s issues” fundraising event for U. S. expats in Sweden  —   widely described as the West’s “rape capital“. [The campaign dispatched   Hillary advocate Melanne Verveer, a former U. S. State Department official, to host a $   fundraiser in Stockholm on Tuesday night. Ms. Verveer was previously the Chief of Staff to First Lady Clinton between 1997 and 2000. She is also the executive director of the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security at Georgetown University, as well as a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilateral Commission, and the World Bank Advisory Council on Gender and Development.  The event was followed by Ms. Verveer and her Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security tweeting about her meeting with Sweden’s foreign minister Margot Wallstrom who has previously apologised to Saudi Arabia for insulting Islam, while repeatedly hitting out at Israel for “causing” Islamic radicalisation. At the time, Israel’s foreign ministry called Ms. Wallstrom’s comments “appallingly impudent” adding: “Whoever fatuously attempts to create a link between radical Islamist attacks and the current problems between Israel and the Palestinians is fooling himself, his people and international public opinion”. Grateful for the consistent leadership of Sweden’s FM @margotwallstrom. Here with ICC chief prosecutor @FATOU_BENSOUDA  @EEASgendeR1325 pic. twitter.   —   GU Women  Peace (@giwps) October 4, 2016,  “Grateful for the consistent leadership of Sweden’s FM @margotwallstrom,” read a tweet from the @GIWPS account, swiftly retweeted by host Ms. Verveer. According to Statista and the European Agency for Fundamental Rights, data shows that in Sweden and Denmark, 80 to 100 per cent of people said they were sexually assaulted as adults. The Gatestone Institute notes: “Forty years after the Swedish parliament unanimously decided to change the formerly homogenous Sweden into a multicultural country, violent crime has increased by 300% and rapes by 1, 472%. Sweden is now number two on the list of rape countries, surpassed only by Lesotho in Southern Africa”. The Clinton campaign event was one of many taking place across Europe featuring   Clinton campaign advocates and former government officials. Ms. Verveer is hosting another, similar event in London on Wednesday night, with discounted tickets for those under the age of 35 already selling out. Tickets are available for $250 for supporters, $500 for “advocate” status, and $5000 for “ ” status.