Saving for retirement should be simple arithmetic  —   the longer your money has to grow, the more money you should have when you stop working. But saving today for a distant tomorrow isn’t so simple, and has a great deal to do with how people think about money. Sean Furlong, the director of finance and administration at Gilman School, a private secondary school in Baltimore, said he realized that while teaching a business class. He was teaching students, he said, “but then I realized I wasn’t teaching my faculty and staff. ” “They didn’t know the things I was teaching to high school students,” he added. “Many of them had missed that. ” Mr. Furlong said he decided to ask the school for permission to begin a retirement education program. Its goal was to increase participation in its retirement plan and to educate people on thinking about their savings choices and investment options. Nearly five years after Mr. Furlong pushed for that education campaign, the school has an average contribution rate of 22 percent, up from 16 percent. (This includes Gilman’s 8 percent match after participants contribute the first 7 percent of their salary.) At the highest end, people are contributing 35 percent of their salary. Changing how people think about the money they save for retirement is one of the central tenets of a movement that is based on behavioral finance, the approach to economics that aims to understand how average people, not rational economists, make financial decisions. After all, it’s the way people behave around money that tends to derail their plans, not a lack of knowledge about what they need to do if they want to retire comfortably. “The biggest challenge is not saving enough,” said Liz Davidson, founder and chief executive of the consultancy Financial Finesse and author of “What Your Financial Advisor Isn’t Telling You. ” “Historically, there’s been a lot of focus on returns. The return is on what you save, and most people aren’t saving enough. ” Ms. Davidson, whose consultancy works with companies on their financial plans for employees, said that when it came to retirement, her company tried to get employees to think about how much they could set aside each day, and to forget about a larger monthly or annual number. “Most people can save a few dollars a day or even $10 a day,” she said. “That’s doable. But if you say, ‘Can you save $300 a month or a couple of thousand dollars a year?’ people will say, ‘Whoa.’ ” Avoiding that “whoa,” which is the hesitancy that can derail planning, is what consultants like Ms. Davidson are trying to do. Just as saving a bit more today is going to pay off in the future, not saving enough, failing to participate in a retirement plan or taking money out of a plan too early can significantly reduce the amount of money available decades later. Many of these efforts come back to seminal work by Shlomo Benartzi and Richard H. Thaler, behavioral economists who have researched how to get people to be better retirement savers. One of their conclusions is people need to be nudged by employers to stay on track, often in ways that keep them from missing the money they are saving. These strategies include automatically enrolling people in retirement plans, asking whether they would like to increase their contributions when they receive a raise and limiting the investment choices so they would need to opt out of a broadly diversified portfolio, which is likely to produce the best returns over time. As simple as the nudges seem, they have been proved to work. The National Football League’s Players Association, which represents current and former players, moved to automatically enroll its players in 2007. Since then the participation rate has gone to 90 percent, from 82 percent. “You don’t miss what you don’t have,” said Dana Hammonds, senior director of player affairs and development. At Gilman School, Mr. Furlong pushed to limit the number of investment options, cutting the funds its plan offered by 75 percent, while increasing the education about the ones that were available. “It used to be faculty and staff could be invested 100 percent in commodities funds and no one would care,” Mr. Furlong said. “Now the majority are in target date funds. ” (Target date funds are set up so that the allocation of a person’s investment changes as the person gets older.) Increasing the amount people contribute has also been a challenge. The default rate used to be 3 percent, which wasn’t enough, said Aimee R. DeCamillo, head of retirement plan services at T. Rowe Price, which provides plans for two million people at 3, 500 companies. She said a savings rate closer to 15 percent, including the employer match, was better. One way it gets people closer to that number is to use behavioral finance tricks with its online portal. This comes into play with increasing the contribution rate. “If you’re at 10 percent, we’ll show you 13, 15, and 17 percent, knowing you’ll go for that middle number,” she said. “It’s driving behavior in the right direction. ” Another feature is what T. Rowe Price calls its “confidence number,” which aims to predict the likelihood that you will be able to replicate your salary in retirement. “It drives you to an experience where you change assumptions,” Ms. DeCamillo said. “You can change your retirement age. You can adjust your salary you can pull in additional outside assets. It helps you build confidence that you have this control over the outcome. ” Aetna, which has worked with Financial Finesse to develop its workplace program, began a yearlong initiative this month called Retirement Ready. Its goal is to help employees think about what they are saving but also about what that money might be used for in retirement. “It’s about financial readiness but also the emotional and physical readiness for retirement,” said Kay Mooney, vice president for benefits at Aetna. “It’s critical for   employees who service our customers. We know the business is challenged if our employees are stressed financially. ” Ms. Mooney said the company would measure the program’s effectiveness based on how employees changed behaviors, like increasing contributions to their 401( k) plans or reducing their credit card debt. But success might also start by getting people to rethink what their retirement savings are for. “Financial independence is a phrase we found resonated very well,” Ms. Davidson said. “It’s living life on your own terms. Flexibility is very important. ”