CHARLESTON, S. C.  —   As Dylann S. Roof made what was probably his final appearance in open court, his grandfather offered the earnest apology to the families of Mr. Roof’s nine   victims that the Charleston church killer has steadfastly declined to make on his own. “I just want to say loudly and repeatedly and constantly we’re sorry,” Joseph Roof, a Columbia, S. C. real estate lawyer, said on Monday in Charleston County Circuit Court. “We’re just as sorry as we can be that this has happened. We regret it. It has ruined lives, and I cannot put those back together. ” His grandson, a white supremacist who had just pleaded guilty to nine counts of murder for the June 17, 2015, massacre at Charleston’s Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, looked ahead impassively, just as when sentenced to death in federal court in January. Under a plea arrangement, he received life terms for each of the murder charges, which will be appended consecutively to the 18 death sentences imposed by a judge and jury in his federal trial. Mr. Roof turned down an offer to address the court directly on Monday, leaving his grandfather as his only advocate. It was the first time a relative had spoken on his behalf in court. “Everyone should understand that nothing is all bad, and Dylann is not all bad,” Joseph Roof said, adding that he and his wife pray each day for the victims’ families. “There’s no way we could ever feel what they’ve felt and what they’ve lost, just as no one can understand what we’ve been through. ” The elder Mr. Roof, who occasionally attended the federal trial, said he still could not fathom what had driven his grandson to such violence in the expressed hope of inciting a race war. “I will go to my grave not understanding what happened,” he said. The   hearing Monday effectively ended the   prosecution of Mr. Roof, who turned 23 a week ago. He is expected to be transferred soon to a federal penitentiary to await execution while appealing the death sentences he received in United States District Court. A federal jury found Mr. Roof guilty in December on 33 counts of hate crimes resulting in death, obstruction of exercise of religion and use of a firearm to commit murder, then returned after the holidays to determine his punishment. Both state and federal prosecutors pursued the death penalty against Mr. Roof for different charges, but the federal government won the race to try him first. The Justice Department rejected Mr. Roof’s offer to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence, citing the number of his victims and the heinous nature of his crimes. His sentencing in federal court  —   directly across Broad Street from the county judicial building  —   left Scarlett Wilson, the chief prosecutor for Charleston County, to decide whether redundant death sentences were necessary. She said she chose to spare the survivors and victims’ families the added trauma of sitting through a second presentation of gruesome crime scene photos and remorseless confessions. “We believe this is the surest way to see that Dylann Roof is executed,” she said on Monday. The testimony in Mr. Roof’s federal trial showed that he had plotted his attack for months, scouting the location during numerous visits from his home near Columbia. On the night of June 17, 2015, he walked through the church’s unlocked side door and joined 12 worshipers gathered for Bible study in the fellowship hall. The pastor, the Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, who was also a state senator, invited the visitor to sit next to him. Mr. Roof said little until the church members closed their eyes in benediction. At that point, he removed a Glock . 45 caliber handgun from his fanny pack and began picking off his victims, one after the next, starting with Mr. Pinckney. Two women and a girl survived, and Mr. Roof’s guilty pleas on Monday included three counts of attempted murder. Several victims’ family members spoke briefly at the hearing, including Nadine Collier, the daughter of Ethel Lance, a victim. It was Ms. Collier who stunned the nation by leading a procession of family members who expressed forgiveness for Mr. Roof at his bond hearing, only two days after the shootings. She reinforced that message in addressing Mr. Roof on Monday. “I just want to say,” Ms. Collier said, “have mercy on your soul. ”