On Saturday, the Greater Los Angeles Area chapter of the Council on   Relations (CAIR) called for extra police protection at local mosques after three letters referring to Muslims as “Children of Satan,” and which referenced   Donald Trump, were allegedly sent to three California mosques. [A copy of a letter sent by “Americans for a Better Way” and addressed to the “Children of Satan was posted online by CAIR.  ”He’s going to do to you Muslims what Hitler did to the Jews.”  —   Mailed to a #SanJose mosque. Statement from #CAIR: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Zahra Billoo (@ZahraBilloo) November 26, 2016,  CAIR has been declared a terrorist organization by the United Arab Emirates, and was named by federal prosecutors as an unindicted   in a Hamas   operation. “You Muslims are vile and filthy people,” the letter’s author wrote. It went on to say “there’s a new sheriff in town,” referring to Trump, and suggested that he is “going to cleanse America and make it shine again” by doing “to you Muslims what Hitler did to the Jews. ” The handwriting on the letter looks elementary. According to a   press release, the letter was sent to the Islamic Center of Long Beach, the Islamic Center of Claremont and an Islamic center in San Jose, prompting CAIR’s San Francisco Bay Area chapter to call for similar police protection of mosques, notes local ABC affiliate in Los Angeles ABC 7. “We are not going to be alarmist. It is just one letter,” Hasan Z. Rahim, a spokesman for the Evergreen Islamic Center told the San Jose Mercury News. “But we also are going to have to be vigilant. ” Rahim added that the center has received   phone calls following waves of terrorist attacks, carried out by Muslims. However, this was its first time receiving a letter, he told the paper. According to the Mercury News, while Rahim said he found the letter addressed to the three mosques disturbing, he does not believe it would result in physical violence against the center. “All of us are Americans,” Rahim reportedly said. “We are as much a part of this land as anyone else. And we are confident that this being a country of law, no one really can take the law into their own hands and act on their own bigotry. ” Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter and Periscope @AdelleNaz