Rafael Cruz  —   father of GOP presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) and author of A Time for Action  —   joined Breitbart News Daily with host Stephen K. Bannon and said Americans must “elect righteous leaders  …    that want to be servants, not dictators, but servants to ‘We the People. ’”[“Jesus said he who wants to be the greatest must become the servant of all,” Cruz told Bannon, adding that the greatest quality of leadership is “servant hood. ”  “We the people elected Ronald Reagan. We need for the church, for people of principle to unite and coalesce around a candidate [with principles] that made America great and that will stand and fight for those principles,” Cruz said to Bannon. “We have a moral and spiritual responsibility and a civil responsibility to be light. ” “It was the church that elected Ronald Reagan” in 1980, and “we can do it again,” he insisted. “America is a very, very unique country,” Cruz said, referencing the foundation of America. “To have the freedom to worship almighty God, it’s a very unique heritage. There’s no other country in the world that was founded on the word of God. ” “That created a very unique environment where it was based on mutual respect for one another,” he added, saying this began when individuals had a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. “People invest their lives into the lives of others and the net result of that kind of lifestyle is a free society,” he explained. Cruz said the Great Awakening and the American Revolution “was a spiritual and political revival” and that the Constitution is the greatest document ever created “outside of the Bible. ” Bannon asked Cruz why the left hates the foundation of America. Cruz said it “goes back to the concept of secular humanism. ” “Both the Communist Manifesto and the Humanist Manifesto are highlighted [in A Time for Action]  …    one of the principle signers of the Humanist Manifestos was John Dewey,” Cruz explained, adding that Dewey was a member of the American Communist Party and the founder of modern American education. “Secular humanism became just a fundamental tenant of American public education,” he said. “Basically, what Secular Humanism says [is] there is no God, you are your own God. ” Cruz said this becomes an egotistical way of thinking and creates chaos in society. “Common Core is not really about standards that is just a façade. Common Core is about redefining education, redefining history,” Cruz said, adding that it, “denies the fundamental principles of what made America great. ” Cruz also told Bannon that Christians have not united globally, but should to fight persecution. Christians have been lied to and have believed the lies  …    with things like so called Separation of Church and State which of course is neither in the Constitution nor in the Declaration, but that has made many Christians well meaning  …    the way they interpret it is, lets divorce ourselves [from civics]. He added that, “too many pastors across America for too long have been hiding behind the pulpit because of fear, fear of losing their tax exemption. ” Hear the whole interview: 