Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 Republican National Convention.  ***LISTEN   BREITBART NEWS’S LIVE COVERAGE OF THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION HERE. *** Call in:   . Today’s theme is “Make America Work Again,” and featured speakers will include UFC President Dana White, former Attorney General Michael Mukasey, Sen. Ron Johnson ( ) the NRA’s Chris Cox, LPGA golfer Natalie Gulbis, Dr. Ben Carson, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, actress Kimberlin Brown, Donald Trump Jr. and Tiffany Trump. House Majority Leader Paul Ryan ( ) Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell ( ) and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy ( ) will also speak. View the full convention schedule here. All times eastern.    —     4:55: Black Lives Matter agitators trying to disrupt convention. Other agitators gather outside as well: #police create walls   protesters. police chief trying to diffuse as #BlackLivesMatter chant #TamirRice pic. twitter.   —   Linsey Davis (@LinseyDavis) July 19, 2016,  4:52: Vile protesters reportedly have urine in bottles that they may be ready to hurl at people: A CPD officer just told me to ’watch out for urine’ that some protesters have in bottles to throw #RNCinCLE #EW pic. twitter.   —   Homa Bash (@HomaBash) July 19, 2016,  4:50: Cornell West now addressing agitators in Cleveland: Crowd has grown. Police presence as well. Cornel West now speaking to protesters. pic. twitter.   —   Tom Withers (@twithersAP) July 19, 2016,  4:20: Roger Ailes Reportedly Out at Fox News: EXCLUSIVE: AILES LEAVES FOXNEWS$40+ MILLION PARACHUTE pic. twitter.   —   MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) July 19, 2016,  4:10: CNN’s Dana Bash is reporting that Cruz allies are going trying to get Cruz on petition tonight in order to nominate him in a symbolic move. [Note: Cruz and his allies must consider how much harm this will do this his presidential chances in 2012. In their insular worlds, they think everything revolves around the “GOP Smart” set and “professional” conservatives. Cruz risks turning off conservatives and “somewhat conservative” voters who are already suspicious of him. Good luck wining a potential future race with just the “professional conservatives” in the permanent political class. This is not Reagan ’76 by a long shot and anyone who tries to make that comparison is delusional.] Some   behind scenes at RNC: Cruz backers debate entering his name into nomination a few hours from now. Party leaders nervous.  —   Tim Alberta (@TimAlberta) July 19, 2016,  How it would work: If enough states enter Cruz’s name, the nominating   vote slows to a crawl as each state polls its delegates.  —   Tim Alberta (@TimAlberta) July 19, 2016,  This, like yesterday’s   push, would be aimed at embarrassing Trump (and party leadership) not taking the nomination from him.  —   Tim Alberta (@TimAlberta) July 19, 2016,  4:05: Donald Trump Jr. on Melania’s speech: ”I imagine there’s people who shouldn’t have done that or who should have cleaned it up better” On #Melania speech pic. twitter.   —   Norah O’Donnell (@NorahODonnell) July 19, 2016,  3:57: A lot of union leaders, though, are worried that their members will vote for Trump. Sec’y Hillary Clinton at the AFSCME Conv. ”When Unions are strong, America is strong” @HillaryClinton #NeverQuit pic. twitter.   —   Dave Fillman (@DaveFillman) July 19, 2016,    3:55: Cindy McCain says Melania Trump was misserved by campaign tacticians. Cindy McCain told 12 News Melania Trump ”was misserved by her staff and by the people on the Trump campaign” https:  .   —   12 News (@12News) July 19, 2016,  3:45: Clinton addressing AFSCME. She says there were similarities between Wizard of Oz and GOP convention. She says when you pulled back the curtain there was nothing but Donald Trump with “nothing to offer the American people. ” She again talks about the need for police reform and the need to build trust between police officers and the communities they serve. Hillary Clinton says the first night of the #gopconvention was ”surreal” during a speech to @AFSCME in NV.  —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) July 19, 2016,  She points out that she’s wearing green. Hillary Clinton: We need the AFSCME green machine to be front and center in this election. #ShesWithUs,  —   AFSCME (@AFSCME) July 19, 2016,  2:39: Clinton Cash:  —   @Nero fans line up for photos after Clinton Cash screening  &gt pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) July 19, 2016,  2:35: Cleveland Police Chief Calls Out Anarchists: Cleveland police chief calls out anarchists says they need new cause if they have to wear masks #RNCinCLE https:  .   —   Joel Achenbach (@JoelAchenbach) July 19, 2016,  2:30: Trump dominating Google searches today: #Trump has dominated search in every state leaving nothing for #Clinton pic. twitter.   —   Tim Pool (@Timcast) July 19, 2016,  2:10: Hardly any   protesters at one site: NEW: The   protesters have not showed up.  Within 10 mins, their permit expires. pic. twitter.   —   Roop Raj (@rooprajfox2) July 19, 2016,  1:58: Hillary to announce VP pick in Florida later this week? Wasserman Schultz also implies that Clinton may make her VP announcement in Florida this week. She says she is “excited” about Clinton’s visit to Florida and “we’re looking forward to welcoming her to Florida. ” Now official: Hillary Clinton will campaign in Florida Friday  Saturday. VP announcement expected late this week. pic. twitter.   —   Monica Alba (@albamonica) July 18, 2016,  1:55: On MSNBC, Craig Melvin asks Debbie Wasserman Schultz why Clinton and Trump are tied if Trump is, as Wasserman Schultz claims, “bigoted” and “unprepared” and “racist. ” She doesn’t have an answer and says polls at this stage do not matter. [Funny, she didn’t say that when Clinton was leading in polls last month.] 1:50: Clinton spokesperson Karen Finney, a   hack who once called Republicans “crazy crackers,” and implied, without any evidence whatsoever, of course, that the “racism” of Rush Limbaugh and Republicans was somehow responsible for Trayvon Martin’s death, is on CNN denouncing the “hateful” rhetoric she claims to have heard at Monday’s GOP convention. 1:48: Clinton getting ready to address AFSCME. Unite Here union endorses Clinton as well. Here in Vegas, @HillaryClinton will be speaking shortly at the @AFSCME convention  —  &gt pic. twitter.   —   erica orden (@eorden) July 19, 2016,  UNITE HERE Endorsement of @HillaryClinton for President of the United States. Read full statement here: https:  .   —   UNITE HERE (@unitehere) July 19, 2016,  1:43: Will heads roll in Trump campaign over Melania speech? ”Melania has been humiliated. No doubt heads are going to roll,” a source within the Trump campaign tells NBC News https:  .   —   Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) July 19, 2016,  1:37: Norovirus outbreak at GOP convention: JUST IN: GOP convention staffers quarantined following norovirus outbreak: report https:  .  #RNCinCLE pic. twitter.   —   The Hill (@thehill) July 19, 2016,  1:35: A  : Just got my copy  …    signed by Schweizer of course  …    now heading to see Clinton Cash documentary pic. twitter.   —   DidSheSayThat (@SonnieJohnson) July 19, 2016,  1:30: Hillary’s response, ladies and gentlemen: “You can’t rule it in either. ” Rose Grills Clinton: ”You Can’t Rule It Out” That Your Emails Weren’t Hacked Clinton: ”You Can’t Rule It In   …     https:  .   —   RCP Video (@rcpvideo) July 19, 2016,  1:15: DOJ responds to snarky Melania Tweet a press accidentally assistant accidentally posted to official government Twitter account: DOJ responds to snarky tweet about Melania Trump  CNN sent out by DOJ Press Assistant using wrong account. pic. twitter.   —   CBS Evening News (@CBSEveningNews) July 19, 2016,  DOJ confirms staffer failed to   of @TheJusticeDept  into personal acct before tweeting about Melania Trump. pic. twitter.   —   Paula Reid (@PaulaReidCBS) July 19, 2016,  1:05: Mike Pence starting off with some standard lines from his stump speech at the American Conservative Union Foundation luncheon. He points out that he was one of the first to fight against the Bush administration’s Wall Street bailout. He says Trump will be a great president because his heart beats with the heart of the American people. He says Trump reminds him of Reagan. He says Reagan never lost the common touch. Pence reminiscing about how Ronald Reagan was the reason he became a Republican and recalling his moments with Reagan. He said when he was in the Blue Room across from Reagan, he thought he was talking to Mount Rushmore. Pence says he thanked Reagan for the country and encouraging his generation to believe in this country again when he first visited him during his first run for Congress. [Trump made a very good selection.] 12:57: RNC’s Top Strategist Says Queen is Wrong About “Unauthorized” Use of Song: Big fan but you are wrong @GOPconvention paid to license the use of song in the arena #RNCinCLE https:  .   —   Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) July 19, 2016,  12:50: SHOTS REPORTEDLY FIRED AT CLEVELAND POLICE VEHICLE: BREAKING: Shots fired at Cleveland police transport vehicle near site of Republican National Convention, no injuries: police #RNCinCLE,  —   Reuters Top News (@Reuters) July 19, 2016,  12:40: This is CNN: Read Byline. .they refer to “people impacted” by illegals. .they are parents whose kids were MURDERED by illegals pic. twitter.   —   Trump 2016 (@allstars4trump) July 18, 2016,  12:25: Priebus on how Trump will appeal to minorities and young voters (note: Trump’s message will actually get to them and they might give him a listen. A lot just completely tuned out Romney and never took him seriously. Tough to do worse than Romney did among black voters and voters of Asian descent.) Here’s Reince’s response to my Q today about how the convention will help GOP   minorities, unmarried women, young. pic. twitter.   —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) July 19, 2016,  12:15: On Breitbart News’s live broadcast, Cenk Uygur, who has been a breakout star on the left this election cycle, calls Clinton a “  candidate. ” And when asked if there is a chance that progressive Bernie Sanders supporters may vote for Trump, he answers with a “mild yes. ” 12:10: Agitators heckling Sheriff Joe: . @RealSheriffJoe heckled by protesters amid media crush while being escorted to #RNCinCLE pic. twitter.   —   M. Scott Mahaskey (@smahaskey) July 19, 2016,  12:05: He still thinks he’s relevant: Suggestion: To save GOP (and himself) from humiliation, Pence should decline VP nomination, urge (belated) roll call on freeing delegates.  —   Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) July 19, 2016,  11:50: On MSNBC, the always clueless Tamron Hall keeps denying that President Barack Obama every said that if someone brings a knife, “we bring a gun,” while interviewing Scott Baio. Hall says she will put the quote on her Twitter account if Obama actually said those words. The problem with political coverage on cable is that there are too many anchors like Tamron Hall who often give off the impression that they are European soccer broadcasters trying to call an American football game. Politico reported on   : The McCain campaign and RNC are pouncing on another line from the Obama pool report: “If they bring a knife to the fight, we bring a gun,” Obama said in Philadelphia last night. “Because from what I understand, folks in Philly like a good brawl. I’ve seen Eagles fans. ”   11:40: At an Iowa luncheon, Branstad and Grassley both take swipes at Michael Flynn for speaking too long and shoving Ernst past 11 p. m. #RNCinCLE,  —   Eric Bradner (@ericbradner) July 19, 2016,  GOV BRANSTAD: ”I was upset Joni Ernst didn’t get to be on prime time.” pic. twitter.   —   Shane Goldmacher (@ShaneGoldmacher) July 19, 2016,  11:15: Former Trump Campaign Manager Corey Lewandowski says Manafort should resign if he was the last person to sign off on Melania’s speech. 11:00: George W. Bush, whose war in Iraq, push for amnesty, support for No Child Left Behind, and excessive spending and bailouts doomed the GOP until the Tea Party movement that formed in part because of the Bush presidency won back Congress for the GOP, was reportedly afraid that he would be the last GOP president. Inside the Shadow Convention: “I’m worried,” George W. Bush said, “that I will be the last Republican president. ” https:  .   —   Shane Goldmacher (@ShaneGoldmacher) July 19, 2016,  10:33: Tony Lee: On this Sunday’s “Meet The Press,” Chuck Todd should invite Mike Barnicle, Doris Kearns Goodwin, and Fareed Zakaria to discuss Melania’s speech. 10:30: Some reactions to Melania’s speech. RNC Chair Priebus said he’d “probably” fire the speechwriter. At @BPolitics breakfast, @Reince says he’d ”probably” fire the speechwriter for Melania’s remarks if the person worked for him and did that.  —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) July 19, 2016,  Ben Carson told reporters he didn’t think speech was plagiarized but if it was, ”that should make us all very happy” pic. twitter.   —   Ashley Killough (@KilloughCNN) July 19, 2016,  Plagiarism? ”Not when 93% of the speech is completely different than Michelle Obama’s speech.”  —  @GovChristie https:  .   —   TODAY (@TODAYshow) July 19, 2016,  Newt Gingrich tells @MajorCBS that the plagiarism charges against Melania are ”bologna.” #sandwichmeats,  —   Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) July 19, 2016,  10:20: Queen upset at Trump’s “unauthorized” use of “We Are The Champions. ” An unauthorised use at the Republican Convention against our wishes  —   Queen,  —   Queen (@QueenWillRock) July 19, 2016,  10:15: Breitbart’s Swoyer at “What Women Want” panel at RNC: Looking fwd to the ”What Women Want” panel at the GOP convention today via @BassComms #rnc #rncincle #cleveland pic. twitter.   —   Alex Swoyer (@ASwoyer) July 19, 2016,  10:10: On MSNBC, Dan Senor, a “Never Trump” establishment Republican, claims a generic Republican would be leading Clinton by 15 points right now. More proof of how clueless people like Senor and Bill Kristol are. A generic Republican like Romney who got trounced by Obama even after GOP establishment figures insisted he was the best chance to beat Obama would never be able to get their message out and combat the mainstream media like Trump is doing. They would also probably fold over like a cheap suit to Clinton just like Romney rolled over in 2012. 9:58: MANAFORT: SEN. JEFF SESSIONS ( ) WILL PUT TRUMP’S NAME INTO NOMINATION TONIGHT. He says Sessions has become a close personal friend and adviser. Rep. Chris Collins ( ) who was the first member of Congress to endorse Trump, and South Carolina Lieutenant Gov. Henry McMaster will give the seconding speeches. 9:54: When asked about Melania’s speech, Manafort says it was a “great speech. ” He says it talked about her journey to America and says the fact that her speech is focused on is “ignoring the facts of the speech itself,” which Manafort says was a “poignant speech” that was “  by the American people. ” Manafort claims they are comfortable that the words used were words that were personal to hereand there isn’t anything in it that didn’t reflect her thinking. Manafort says when Hillary Clinton is threatened by a female, she tries to destroy her. Manafort says he is not going to keep saying the same thing on the topic. Clinton breaks laws, evades oversight, endangers national security: EXTREMELY CARELESS, Melania Trump speech: FRONT PAGE NATIONAL CRISIS,  —   John Hayward (@Doc_0) July 19, 2016,  9:50: Trump Campaign’s Paul Manafort at RNC briefing: “Tonight at around 7:30, Mr. Trump will officially be the nominee of the Republican Party. So we’re excited about that. He’s excited about the fact that his quest will finally come to an end. All of you who doubted that he couldn’t be the nominee will no longer be able to say, ‘yes, but maybe it won’t happen. ’” 9:35: Poor thing. “Never Trump” leader Kendal Unruh tells MSNBC that she is wearing black today because she is “mourning. ” Never Trump movement. Time of death about 4:12 pm on July 18, 2016.  —   Bob Cusack (@BobCusack) July 18, 2016,  She says they have a “plan of action” that they will try to employ today. Unruh insists that the Never Trump movement is not helping Hillary Clinton to get elected. When asked whom she would want to win if she only had two choices (Trump or Clinton) in November, Unruh says she is going to leave it up to the voters. She says she will cast a “protest vote” for Ronald Reagan. DELUSIONAL:  For those of you who don’t get #NeverTrump  —   we’re fighting to beat Hillary.  Sit down, shut up, and let us work  …     #RNCinCLE,  —   Brad Thor (@BradThor) July 19, 2016,  9:25: The Drudge Report is featuring a video that shows Obama lifting lines from Deval Patrick (Note: David Axelrod was the top strategist for both men): 9:15: Trump’s campaign issued a statement on Melania’s speech that had a similar paragraph from Michelle Obama’s 2008 Dem. convention speech: “In writing her beautiful speech, Melania’s team of writers took notes on her life’s inspirations, and in some instances included fragments that reflected her own thinking. Melania’s immigrant experience and love for America shone through in her speech, which made it such a success. ”