Failed presidential candidate Hillary Clinton attended a event for her staff in New York, in an effort to help them cope with her stunning loss to   Donald Trump. [Members of the staff were crying. John Podesta was crying. Bill Clinton was crying. Hillary Clinton hugged mourning members of her squad.  She thanked the staff  begged them to keep fighting. Told them she hoped their paths would cross again. Podesta  Bill were both crying.  —   Willa Frej (@willafrej) November 12, 2016,  After somebody sent her some 1, 000 red roses, Clinton brought them to the mournful occasion. Someone sent 1000 red roses to @HillaryClinton. She brought them to distribute at our staff party tonight.  Of course.  —   Jenna Lowenstein (@just_jenna) November 12, 2016,  Clinton explained to staffers that the roses were sent by a group of people “who fight against sexism and racism and homophobia and xenophobia and all of the scary words that we’ve been hearing a lot about. ” Young people gave Hillary 1, 200 roses. Hillary came and left one for each of her campaign’s staff. “Think of the hope it represents”. pic. twitter.   —   Samy Nemir Olivares (@Samynemir) November 12, 2016,  She urged everyone to take a rose home. “Think about the hope that it represents and the love that so many people around our country have for all of us,” she said.  She urged them to enjoy the party but to “think about what we do to make sure that we prove that love trumps hate. ” Earlier in the day she held a therapy session on a conference call, according to the Huffington Post. “I’m not going to sugarcoat it: These have been very, very tough days,” Clinton said during the call. This is a tough time for our country. I think we have seen how people have been reacting to the events of this election and I know we have got to be reaching out to each other to keep it clear in our own minds that what we did is so important. It looks like we are on the path to winning the popular vote, and that says volumes about the importance of your work and the lasting impact it will have. She encouraged all of her staffers to “get back in there and keep fighting” for the causes that they believed in. Referring to the “surprise” photo of her walking her dogs, she encouraged her staffers to do the same. “Take your dogs for a walk,” she said, “If you have dogs. ”