GOP frontrunner Donald Trump said what happened with the   process in Colorado was “a fix” and called both Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) and Democrat frontrunner Hillary Clinton liars during his campaign rally in Albany, New York on Monday night. [GOP frontrunner Donald Trump said what happened with the delegate selection in Colorado was “a fix” and called both Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) and Democrat frontrunner Hillary Clinton liars during his campaign rally in Albany, New York on Monday night.  “We have a rigged system,” Trump said, referencing Cruz’s sweep of Colorado delegates over the past weekend. “In Colorado, they were going to vote   …     it’s a fix. ” “We thought we were having an election and a number of months ago they decided to do it by delegate,” he added, referencing to the #NeverTrump tweet sent out by the Colorado GOP official Twitter account, saying, “It’s a crooked, crooked system. ” “They took away their votes,” Trump argued about Colorado. “It’s one of the great political stories. ” “They gave it to these delegates,” he explained. “People are not going to take it anymore,” adding, “It’s a totally corrupt, rigged system. ” Trump also attacked Cruz for his earlier comments about New York values, where Cruz pointed out liberal policies in New York. “New York is very important. Remember New York values, when this character said with disdain? He knocked pretty viciously New York values,” Trump said of Cruz. “Nobody has values like us,” Trump said to the New York voters. “The country loves New York. ” “When we took the worst attack in the history or our nation   …     we were strong   …     we were loving and we had heart,” Trump said, adding that’s what New York values represent. “He does not like New York,” Trump said of Cruz. “He does not like the people of New York and that came out loud and clear,” adding, “Take a look at the scorn on his face when he said it. ” “I think Hillary might be worse than Ted,” Trump said, calling them both liars. “I don’t think the emails will take her down because she’s being protected by the Democrats,” Trump said of Hillary Clinton, adding. It “is a disgrace, but she’s going to have to live with that when she runs because everybody knows she’s guilty as hell. ” “Her whole life has been a big, fat, beautiful lie,” he added. “Everything about her is a lie. ” Trump listed negative statistics about New York’s labor force, then vowed, “We’re going to straighten it out once and for all. ” Trump said the medium household income in New York is roughly $3, 700 per year less than it was in the 1980s. He added that the labor force participation rate in New York is at the lowest level in many years, around 60 percent. He also said New York has lost three out of every four manufacturing jobs that existed in 1960 and 350, 000 manufacturing jobs have been lost since the 1990s. “They support TPP. TPP by the way is a disaster,” Trump said, referencing Cruz and Ohio Gov. John Kasich. Trump said TPP, the Trans Pacific Partnership trade deal, will be worse than NAFTA. Trump spoke at the Times Union Center, where the capacity was reportedly 17, 500. CBS News’ Sopan Deb said the arena was about 75 percent full.