Huffington Post Contributor Michael Sitver writes that during the uproar at Milo Yiannopoulos’ event at DePaul last night, Chicago PD officers were not refusing to intervene due to fears of racism accusations, as some had speculated online, but because of a direct order from university administrators to stay out of it. [According to the article, Chicago police “wanted to do their job” but were instructed by campus administrators to “stand passively and watch. ”  via The Huffington Post, While an invited speaker was harassed and harangued by protesters, DePaul administrators cowered indecisively in a corner. Faced with a serious challenge to   rights on their campus, they were visibly frightened of confronting the protesters, who tied themselves to the”Black Lives Matter” movement. Administrators had fought against hosting the conservative event for over three months. As they watched the event unravel, they seemed almost relieved to see the radical protesters fulfill their wishes. The rights implications were utterly lost on them. All they wanted was a nice, quiet,   campus. Only days before the event, administrators had demanded that DePaul College Republicans, the club that hosted the event, pay hundreds of extra dollars in security costs. This was a clear breach of contract, but the organizers paid the fee under threat of cancellation. Yet, after ordering a dozen security officers, the administrators prevented them from restoring order, forcing them to stand down. I talked to a few of the dozen Chicago police officers eventually called into the building, and they were irate. They were   and   to handle scenarios such as this. They wanted to do their job, and remove the protesters, but administrators demanded they stand passively and watch. Once again, violence prevailed over free speech on a liberal college campus, and the administration was 100% complicit. You can read the full article here. Jack Hadfield is a student at the University of Warwick and a regular contributor to Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter here: @ToryBastard_.