Council of American Islamic Relations (CAIR) National Communications Director Ibrahim Hooper declined to speak with a Breitbart News reporter on Friday about the Orlando terror attack, saying: “You are   bigots. ”[CAIR has been declared a terrorist organization by the United Arab Emirates and was named by federal prosecutors as an unindicted   in a   operation.  Hooper, contacted by telephone, said he did not wish to be interviewed by Breitbart News, and went on to equate the company and its employees with the Nazis. This reporter began the phone call by wishing Hooper a “Ramadan kareem” and well wishes during what is seen as the holiest month for Muslims. The purpose of the call was to ask Hooper if his organization had any information about the handling of the corpse of the Orlando terrorist, Omar Mateen, who opened fire on helpless patrons at a gay nightclub last weekend, taking 49 lives and injuring at least 50 others. Last year, CAIR ensured Islamic burials for the San Bernardino terrorists, Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik. CAIR also arrange helped the family fight for custody of the terrorist couple’s baby. Farouk and Malik had opened fire on several of their colleagues during a holiday party this past December. According to a report from the Orange County, Florida Medical Examiner’s Office, Mateen’s body is still with the coroner. It is unclear whether arrangements have been made to bury him in accordance with traditional Islamic rituals, (Salat  ) which forbid cremation  —   the likeliest outcome should no one come forward to claim Matteen’s body. In a   call, Hooper said he refused to entertain the request for an interview because Breitbart News is an “  organization that spreads   hate. ” After the reporter said she was not an   bigot, Hooper said “You may not be, but the people you work for are   bigots and you work for an organization that spews hatred against Muslims. ” “We only deal with legitimate news sources and Breitbart is not one,” Hooper said. “I have no idea where the body is,” Hooper added, before terminating the call. Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz