This week my human rights organization, the American Freedom Defense Initiative, filed suit in the United Kingdom  —   again. We are fighting for freedom there harder than most Brits. [Back in June I reported that we were starting a new ad campaign to run on London taxis. It consisted simply of quotes from Muhammad, the prophet of Islam, such as “I have been made victorious through terror. ”  I was told by John Kehoe, a representative of Media Agency in London that the London buses would not accept my ads, despite the fact that the buses were running ads proclaiming the greatness of Allah. It was Media Agency that suggested I run the ads on taxis instead. I agreed. I had signed contacts and paid in full on May 13. On that day, we released an announcement:   Taxi Supersides Contract Between Media Agency Group and Pamela Geller is Signed and Filed! On June 27, I wrote to John: “John, Please confirm that the ads are up and running today. ” On June 28, I receive this email from Gabrielle Conneely of Transport Media: Hi Pamela, Apologies for the delay in getting back to you, john did pass me your email last night to give you an update, All taxis are now posted and on the road J, Thanks, Gabi, But here’s the thing: the ads never ran. Transport Media lied. They said that hundreds of our ads were running on London taxis. When I asked for proof of placement  —   environmental shots of taxis bearing the ads on London streets  —   they stopped answering my emails. If the ads had been running, there would have been an uproar in the dhimmi British media. The Guardian would have been furious that we dared to insult Muhammad by quoting his exact words. Also, don’t you think that if the ads had been running, every Muslim cabbie in London (i. e. every cabbie in London) would have been on strike and up in arms (some literally) and refusing to drive, or peeling off the ads, etc.? But there was nothing. Not one word. The ads never ran. These perfidious Albionites to lie to you and take your money. They never ran the ads. Can you imagine what would happen if they tried to pull this on jihad or Sharia groups? On June 28, I wrote the following to Kehoe and Conneely, as well as to my attorneys in Britain: Please immediately supply environmental (street) photos of these taxis featuring our ads running around London. Despite your assurances that they are running, we have received no reports from our numerous contacts in the city of any sightings of these taxis. There has been no discussion of them, either pro or con, in social media or in the British press. Given the highly controversial nature of the ads in light of the British political scene today, it is virtually inconceivable that these ads would run without either a murmur of dissent or one single affirmation of support. We can only conclude that your assertions that they are running are not accurate, and unless we receive atmospheric photos forthwith, we will be undertaking discussions with our British attorneys (cc’d here) about possible legal action. And so this week, we filed suit, through my British law firm, Taylor Rose. These ads should have run, and the British police should have been poised to defend the freedom of speech. After the Muslim mayor banned  on buses and subways of   women, what would have been more appropriate (or needed) than our new ad campaign? This is yet another example of the crushing imposition of Islamic law in Britain  —   from my being banned from entering the country for the crime of opposing jihad, while the most vicious Islamic preachers who incite to violence and murder are routinely allowed in, to the new Muslim mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, banning  featuring women in bikinis and promising more Sharia enforcement against   “  hate speech”  —   while his transit authority is stealing tens of thousands of dollars from those of us who are fighting for our most basic freedoms. Please donate to our campaign and lawsuit expenses here. Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.  