TWIN FALLS, IDAHO  —   The victim’s mother heard her    daughter “screaming and crying” as the mentally disabled daughter ran home Saturday afternoon after allegedly being trapped and sexually assaulted by refugee Mohammed Hussein Eldai. [That’s just one of the heartbreaking details in a police report obtained exclusively by Breitbart News that sheds new light on this latest alleged refugee sex attack to hit this small southern Idaho city.  Just as many Americans have begun to learn about the shocking early June attack on a    girl by three Muslim refugee boys who orally and anally penetrated the girl before urinating on her, this new assault by Mohammed Hussein Eldai doesn’t fit the narrative about the benefits of diversity that the media and politicians try to spin. In fact, as Breitbart News reported exclusively yesterday, Mohammed Hussein Eldai was actually featured by Twin Falls TV station KMVT in one of those   reports in June. As you’ll see in this police report, Mohammed Hussein Eldai is not exactly the poster boy for Islam or for refugees that the local media wanted him to be. While Idaho activists have been called racist repeatedly by local media and politicians for expressing concerns about the refugee program that has brought a growing Muslim population into Twin Falls over the past five years, the two sexual assaults  —   plus an attempted murder of people met through the refugee program by a Muslim last week in Twin Falls  —   are making the policy decisions of the city, state and national officials more difficult to defend. As Breitbart News has begun to outline in an   series of reports, the refugees are being brought to the town not out of some humanitarian desire to help people  —   but to replace Americans   with cheap, compliant labor for the local   industry and to help and promote an progressive political agenda for a multicultural, “new America” originally laid out by Clinton administration officials. That means ordinary Americans are suffering from the growing civic and financial costs of the   policy imposed by federal and local governments and business groups. The latest incident began on a hot Saturday, when the    victim went for a walk. Her mother told police that the victim is mentally disabled, requires assistance to live, and does not always make good decisions. That day, the victim became tired from her walk and laid down on the sidewalk. She was allegedly approached by what the police report calls an “African” man, who offered her help by bringing her back to his apartment. According to the police report: (Victim) said while at Mr. Eldai’s house, he made her some kind of drink that she tasted and then refused to drink. (Victim) said Mr. Eldai showed her to his bedroom, where she laid on his bed. (Victim) said Mr. Eldai attempted multiple times to lay down next to her and she refused, telling him to stay away. (Victim) explained that Mr. Eldai had removed his pants and was then wearing boxer shorts that she described as red and going to his knees. Eventually Mr. Eldai laid down and began to rub her back under her sweatshirt and then also rubbed her stomach and breast area, touching her bare skin. Mr. Eldai then said thank you for letting him touch her and (Victim) said “no I don’t like that and I want to go home”. (Victim) said Mr. Eldai began to rub and squeeze the front and back of her legs and butt on top of her shorts, and she told me that her shorts were too tight for Mr. Eldai’s hand to fit underneath. (Victim) also demonstrated how Mr. Eldai rubbed between her legs above her clothing. (Victim) said she told Mr. Eldai she was uncomfortable, but said Mr. Eldai continued to hold her there . (Victim) said Mr. Eldai asked her if she was a virgin and then asked her to show him. (Victim) refused and said Mr. Eldai then removed his penis and began rubbing it and asked her if she wanted to touch it. (Victim) described Mr. Eldai’s penis as being hard at this time. (Victim) said she again said no and Mr. Eldai began rubbing his penis against her back, while she demonstrated how Mr. Eldai thrusted his hips against her multiple times. (Victim) said Mr. Eldai then kissed her on the lips and ear. She explained how she was grossed out and told him again that she wanted to go home. The victim then allegedly escaped from Mohammed Hussein Eldai and ran home screaming, according to her mother. Upon questioning, Mohammed Hussein Eldai admitted the events to the police and said he planned to have sex with the victim. Eldai was given a $10, 000 bond by the judge. Idaho has the largest percentage of refugees relative to its population of any state. Breitbart’s coverage of the Twin Falls refugee crisis will continue. Listen to Lee Stranahan on Sirius XM’s Breitbart News Daily discussing the national importance of the situation there. 