MANILA  —   Philippine soldiers clashed Tuesday with members of a militant group known for beheading foreign hostages, leaving five rebels and four members of the security forces dead at a popular tourist destination in the central Philippines, the police and military said. Soldiers and the provincial police clashed with rebels on the island of Bohol, about 400 miles south of Manila, after spotting 10 armed members of Abu Sayyaf on three boats, the military said in a statement. The firefight came a day after the American and Australian Embassies warned their citizens against traveling to areas in the central Philippine region of Visayas, particularly the islands of Cebu and Bohol. They said they had received “unsubstantiated yet credible information that terrorist groups may attempt to conduct kidnapping. ” The embassies did not identify the source of the information, nor did they cite Abu Sayyaf, a small group of Islamic militants that once was an affiliate of Al Qaeda but that has since pledged allegiance to the Islamic State, according to Philippine intelligence officials. Col. Edgard Arevalo, a spokesman for the armed forces, said the troops cornered the militants in an isolated section of the coastal town of Inabanga, prompting the clashes. The rebels, who were heavily armed, he said, were “believed to be” members of Abu Sayyaf. “As of this time, five were killed on the enemy side,” Colonel Arevalo said, adding that troops had recovered four firearms and a homemade bomb from the militants. He said three soldiers and one police officer also died. Numbering around 400, Abu Sayyaf is known for abducting foreign and local tourists for ransoms. In 2004, the militants bombed a passenger ferry off Manila Bay, killing more than 100 people in the country’s worst terrorist attack. In February, the group beheaded Jürgen Kantner, 70, a yachtsman from Germany, after his government did not pay a $600, 000 ransom. They did so after seizing his boat in November as he and his partner, a woman who was reportedly fatally shot, sailed in southern Philippine waters. Last year, Abu Sayyaf beheaded two Canadian hostages they had seized from a beach resort on Samal Island, also in the south. The group operates in mostly poor areas on the southern islands of Basilan and Sulu. Despite its small size, it has rebuffed countless military offensives and remains a serious threat. Rommel Banlaoi, the director of the Center for Intelligence and National Security Studies, based in Manila, said Abu Sayyaf had survived by working with other criminal groups around the archipelago. “It remains highly capable, because it has followers in Visayas,” he said. “The core of the Abu Sayyaf group remains small, but its network with criminal groups nationwide is huge, established through arms smuggling and money laundering. ” He said intelligence data indicated that the militants had established terrorist cells in the central Philippines, with its overall commander, Alhabsi Misaya, known to have followers in Bohol. A suspect in the bombing of a night market in the southern city of Davao last year that killed 15 people was also an Abu Sayyaf associate who once worked in the central Philippines.