Hillary Clinton may not like to use the word “terrorist,” but the New York Times has no problem using that word  —   to refer to Donald Trump, at least. [Columnist Charles M. Blow led with that inflammatory accusation on Monday’s opinion page:  Donald Trump is a domestic terrorist only his form of terror doesn’t boil down to blowing things up. He’s the    toddler who knows nearly nothing, hurls insults, has simplistic solutions for complex problems and is quick to throw a tantrum. Also, in case you didn’t know it, this toddler is mean to girls and is a bit of a bigot. Blow did not define what he meant by “terrorist. ” The episode recalls one in 2011, when columnist Joe Nocera called the Tea Party movement “terrorists”: You know what they say: Never negotiate with terrorists. It only encourages them. These last few months, much of the country has watched in horror as the Tea Party Republicans have waged jihad on the American people. Their intransigent demands for deep spending cuts, coupled with their almost gleeful willingness to destroy one of America’s most invaluable assets, its full faith and credit, were incredibly irresponsible. But they didn’t care. Their goal, they believed, was worth blowing up the country for, if that’s what it took. The Times editorial page appears to be holding a   competition. Tuesday’s paper featured Roger Cohen opening in a similar style to Blow, albeit with a slightly less inflammatory epithet: Donald Trump is a thug. He’s a thug who talks gibberish, and lies, and cheats, and has issues, to put it mildly, with women. He’s lazy and limited and he has an attention span of a nanosecond. He’s a “gene believer” who thinks he has “great genes” and considers the German blood, of which he is proud, “great stuff. ” Mexicans and Muslims, by contrast, don’t make the cut. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.