CIUDAD VICTORIA, Tamaulipas  —   The Mexican government and local media remain silent while cartel violence and executions have become a common occurrence in this city as two rival factions of the Los Zetas cartel continue to fight for control. [Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas and Coahuila to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities.  The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “M. A. Navarro” from Ciudad Victoria.   While government officials and news outlet remain largely silent, citizens journalists continue to use social media and messaging applications to warn each other about the impending dangers outside of their front door.  As Breitbart Texas previously reported, two rival factions of the Los Zetas cartel, known as Vieja Escuela   Bravo and Cartel Del Noreste (CDN) have been fighting for control of this city. The violent turf war has resulted in a regular beheadings and gory executions.  One of the more disturbing trends deals with the increasing number of underage teenagers who have joined the ranks of organized crime. Last week, Mexican federal police tracked down and rescued a kidnapping victim. During the rescue attempt, one of the three kidnappers tried to fight off authorities and was quickly gunned down. The other two kidnappers were identified as being only   and    respectively.  Also last week, a group of teenagers left an ice chest outside of a local school. The move drew a large deployment of law enforcement officials since, in recent weeks, cartel members have left multiple ice chests with human heads inside in various public places. The ice chest did not have a human head but had animal organs inside. The move was only a distraction of sorts as a team of cartel gunmen went into a home in the Miguel Aleman neighborhood.  Inside of that house, the gunmen fired their weapons at two unidentified women. One of the females died inside the house, while the second one was rushed to a local hospital where her condition was not released.  Last Friday, members of the Vieja Escuela   Bravo faction taped a poster board in a gazebo on the city’s main plaza  —   right outside of the main state government building. The poster board threatens the leaders of the CDN and stakes claim to Ciudad Victoria as belonging to the Vieja Escuela Z.  Also on Friday, authorities found an abandoned vehicle near the Miguel Aleman neighborhood not far from where the women were gunned down. Inside the vehicle authorities found an FN PS90 rifle and other weapons.  On Saturday, authorities rushed to the an overpass in the Horacio Ceran area in response to yet another execution. Inside a dark vehicle authorities found the body of an unidentified man who had been fatally shot. Authorities simply gathered evidence before having the vehicle and body removed.  On Sunday, yet another cartel attack took place in this city when a gunman riding a motorcycle pulled up to a local stand. He walked up to one of the employees and shot him in the head. When authorities arrived, they found the victim still breathing an rushed him to a local hospital. The   went by the nickname “Diablo”. 