Appeals over failed asylum applications have increased over 100 percent in Germany over the past year, and the legal system is now so overloaded a top judge has remarked: “It is my impression the German authorities are no longer in charge”. [In 2015 the numbers of asylum seekers who are appealing failed asylum cases has doubled in Germany.  Two regions in particular have seen a massive increase in disputes over failed asylum applications. Bavaria and North   have seen the largest increase with the   region seeing a quadrupling in the number of cases. Asylum issues are said to have taken up a giant 41 percent of all court cases processed by local administrative courts in the region. In Bavaria the amount of cases has tripled, reports Die Welt. The trend is set to only get worse with the chairman of the Federal German administrative judges and administrative judges, Robert Seegmüller, saying: “We expect in the coming quarter a significant rise in the number of cases. ” In Germany as a whole more than a third of all cases brought before administrative courts involve asylum issues and cases. Judge Seegmüller went on to say that many regions were able to handle the workload for now due to an increased recruitment of judges but at the same time said that the mountain of new proceedings could cancel out the added workforce. Elaborating his point, he remarked: “The administrative jurisdiction is a fast jurisdiction but the huge mountain of new proceedings means that though the Federal Office for Refugees and Migration are working faster, we are not. ” He was also not impressed with the ability for the German state to carry out deportations of failed asylum seekers saying: “If foreigners are not deported consistently after appropriate judgments, the German state will lose its judicial authority. ” According to him, the German government’s track record on deportations has got steadily worse over the course of the migrant crisis. The larger number of incoming migrants has led to either a backlog of deportations or a total inability for authorities to find and deport migrants due to lack of man power. Seegmüller said that he is losing confidence in the German government’s ability saying: “It is my impression the German authorities are no longer in charge. ” Seegmüller also expressed doubts that migrants who are deported will actually remain outside the country. He quoted a case in which a migrant shouted out during a hearing that he didn’t care since he likely won’t be deported anyway. “The quota is woefully low,” he said.  