A federal grand jury in eastern Tennessee returned an   indictment in May against 27 people for possession of and conspiracy to traffic methamphetamine. Six of those people were also charged with possession of a firearm in furtherance of drug trafficking offenses. [The charges resulted from an investigation that grew out of a drug purchase by a “confidential human source” (CHS) according to a criminal complaint obtained by Breitbart Texas. The CHS, while working under direction of an FBI agent, allegedly purchased a half ounce of methamphetamine from Ricky Dale Munsey for $700. The transaction was reported by the investigating officer to have been carried out in Munsey’s Mosheim, Tennessee, home. The entire transaction was audio recorded.  The ensuing investigation led to the   indictment being filed against 27 people in connection from the drug trafficking ring. Indictments were returned against the following individuals:  Rickey Dale Munsey, 47, Washburn, Tenn. Jeffery Brian Wills, 27, Greeneville, Tenn. Joel Hosea Beasley, 36, Morristown, Tenn. Steven Dwight Hopkins, 46, Mooresburg, Tenn. Guy Mayns, 31, Morristown, Tenn. Christopher Allen Williams,  47, Morristown, Tenn. James Guinn, 36, Morristown, Tenn. Jenny Louise Musson, 32, Greeneville, Tenn. Maria Smelcer, 42, Mosheim, Tenn. Tomasena Miluv Payne, 28, Talbot, Tenn. David Lee Sicilia, 31, Morristown, Tenn. Andrew Harville, 28, Morristown, Tenn. Nathan Carroll, 36,  Morristown, Tenn. Jamie Lee Bray, 24, Morristown, Tenn. Darinda Sue Beasley, 36, Morristown, Tenn. Erica Sue Harris, 34, Russellville, TN Tenn. Jeremy Kane Jones, 30, Morristown, Tenn. Eric James Reedy, 32, Rogersville, Tenn. Timothy Shannon Maner, 35, Morristown, Tenn. Christopher Wayne Munsey, 26, Morristown, Tenn. Morgan Alan Moore, 30, Morristown, Tenn. James Calvin Hale, 38, Morristown, Tenn. Larry Wayne Martin, 52, Russellville, Tenn. Kellie Hopkins, 23, Mooresburg, Tenn. Donald Edward Grey, Jr. 40, Bean Station, Tenn. John Nathaniel Beasley, 19, Mooresburg, Tenn. and Tim Parvin, 38, Russellville, Tenn. U. S. Magistrate Judge Clifton L. Corker accepted not guilty pleas from fifteen of the defendants this week in a Greenville, Tennessee, federal courthouse. If convicted on these charges, each of the individuals indicted could face from 10 years to life in prison and a fine of up to $10, 000, 000. Upon release from prison they would also face a minimum of 5 years of supervised release, according to a statement issued by the U. S. Attorney’s office in the Eastern District of Tennessee. The firearms charges were filed under what is known as a 924( c) charge. The offense was created to add a stiff penalty to criminals who possess or use a firearm in connection with drug trafficking or some violent crimes. The penalty can range from 5 years to 30 years or more and must be served following the completion of the sentence for the connected offense, according to Tennessee defense attorney Kimberly Hodde. The investigation was put together as part of the Department of Justice’s Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF). Agencies involved in the investigation and subsequent arrests included: Federal Bureau of Investigation, Hamblen County Sheriff’s Office, Third Judicial District Drug Task Force, Fourth Judicial District Drug Task Force, Morristown Police Department, Greene County Sheriff’s Office, Hawkins County Sheriff’s Office, Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office, Knox County Sheriff’s Office, Jefferson City Police Department, Grainger County Sheriff’s Office Johnson City Police Department, Bean Station Police Department and Claiborne County Sheriff’s Office. Bob Price serves as senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.