In one of the most extraordinary admissions of defeat in modern times, Trevor Phillips, the former chief of Britain’s Equalities and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) has admitted that the path that Britain has been on for years is a catastrophic failure. Muslims won’t assimilate and become loyal Britons. [Phillips wrote: “For a long time, I too thought that Europe’s Muslims would become like previous waves of migrants, gradually abandoning their ancestral ways, wearing their religious and cultural baggage lightly, and gradually blending into Britain’s diverse identity landscape. I should have known better. ” Instead, he wrote, Muslims are creating “nations within nations” in the West.  It is astonishing that any member of the ruling elite would admit defeat and state what is painfully obvious to any rational human being who for the last few years has been watching the disintegration of the Western mores and law in the wake of Muslim immigration. Muslims are the only immigrant group that comes to Western countries with a   model of society and government (sharia) which they believe to be superior to what we have here, and they work to institute it.  The question is, now that Phillips has spoken up and stated the truth, what will the UK do now? Continue to jail those who speak critically of jihad and sharia? Or will the UK begin shutting down mosques that incite Muslims to wage jihad? Will it prohibit hate preachers from speaking on UK college campuses, and instead invite my colleagues? Will Muslim immigration from jihad nations be halted? Will sharia courts be shut down?  This admission of defeat is all the more remarkable coming from Phillips, who popularized the term “Islamophobia” in Britain. As I explained in my book Stop the Islamization of America, the very word is a fictional construct. It was popularized deliberately by a Muslim Brotherhood front organization, the International Institute for Islamic Thought (IIIT). Abdur Rahman Muhammad, a member of the IIIT who has renounced the group in disgust, was an eyewitness to the development of the word. “This loathsome term,” he wrote, “is nothing more then I thought terminating cliché conceived in the bowels of Muslim thing tanks for the purpose of beating down critics. ” The term “Islamophobia” was designed specifically for the Western mindset of liberal white guilt, stealing the “civil rights” narrative from black Americans and mining the “oppression” of Native Americans, even throwing in the spectre of the Japanese internment camps during World War II. These are the clubs Islamic supremacists in the West use to beat anyone who dares to speak out or push back against the encroaching sharia, the appeasement of Islamic supremacists and their demands in the secular marketplace, and the restriction of free speech. It was why I was banned from the UK, which is acting like a de facto Islamic state.   In reality, “Islamophobia” is nothing more than a term that Islamic supremacists use to enforce the Islamic blasphemy laws in the West: in Islamic law, to defame or insult Muhammad or Islam is blasphemy, and in many Muslim countries it’s punishable by death. That is why devout Muslims tried to slaughter all of us in Garland, Texas last May, at our Muhammad art exhibit in the defence of the freedom of speech.  The handful of us who have, for years, predicted and warned of the disastrous consequences of   Muslim immigration have been smeared, defamed, and blacklisted  —   our reputations destroyed. And now once again we have been shown to have been right all along. Phillips made his statement after a poll showed, according to Breitbart London:  These numbers are consistent with numerous polls that have been conducted over the past decade. It’s not just the UK. According to a recent poll, 58% of Muslims in the United States reject First Amendment criticism of Islam as a right. 46% want blasphemy punished, 12% want blasphemers killed. Muslims believe that sharia law is divine and therefore supersedes all national, “manmade” laws.  Phillips admits: “Liberal opinion in Britain has, for more than two decades, maintained that most Muslims are just like everyone else  …     Britain desperately wants to think of its Muslims as versions of the Great British Bake Off winner Nadiya Hussain, or the   athlete Mo Farah. But thanks to the most detailed and comprehensive survey of British Muslim opinion yet conducted, we now know that just isn’t how it is. ” This is a huge change for him. He commissioned “the Runnymede report” on “Islamophobia” in 1997, making the term mainstream. Now he says: “Twenty years ago  …     I published the report titled Islamophobia: A Challenge for Us All, we thought that the real risk of the arrival of new communities was discrimination against Muslims. “Our 1996 survey of recent incidents showed that there was plenty of it around. But we got almost everything else wrong. ” They got that wrong, too. How many times have we seen a supposed act of “Islamophobia” turn out to have been committed by Muslims? Phillips’ new realism may bring some sanity back to Britain regarding Muslim immigration, and even strengthen the campaigns of U. S. presidential candidates who have called for a halt to that immigration on national security grounds  —   including that of Ted Cruz, who was the only Presidential candidate who stood up for us in the wake of the Garland jihad attack. This is because we are facing the same problem in the U. S. where some of our most respected Muslim leaders have openly stated they want Islamic rule here. These aren’t people on the fringe. These men are mainstream, and are or have been the leaders of the key Muslim organizations in the U. S.: Phillips says: “Some of my journalist friends imagine that, with time, the Muslims will grow out of it. They won’t. ” That’s right. So what is he going to do about it? Pamela Geller is the President of the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) publisher of PamelaGeller. com and author of The   Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America and Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance. Follow her on Twitter here. Like her on Facebook here.  