TOKYO  —   A powerful earthquake and multiple aftershocks rattled the southwestern Japanese island of Kyushu on Saturday, killing at least 23 people, according to media reports, two days after another strong quake killed nine people on the same island. The largest of the new earthquakes had a magnitude of 7. 0, according to the United States Geological Survey, making it even more powerful than the  .2 quake on Thursday night. The Japan Meteorological Agency assessed the new quake at magnitude 7. 3. Saturday’s quake, which struck just before 1:30 a. m. toppled houses and apartment buildings, buckled roads and caused numerous landslides. Aftershocks shook the area throughout Saturday, more than 70 of them strong enough to cause damage to buildings, the Meteorological Agency reported. NHK, the national public broadcaster, said 23 deaths were confirmed Saturday as a result of the quake and the aftershocks, bringing the toll since Thursday to 32. Most of those killed were elderly some were trapped under collapsed buildings, while several died in fires and landslides in the mountainous region. Yoshihide Suga, the government’s chief cabinet secretary, said rescue units were working to free people from more than 50 collapsed buildings. About 900 people were treated for injuries, NHK reported. Thousands fled their homes and spent the night outdoors or in temporary shelters. Power failures left about 160, 000 homes without electricity, the news media reported, citing local electric utilities. About 90, 000 people had left their homes for shelters by Saturday evening, the authorities said. Television footage showed dark smoke rising from Mount Aso, a large volcano about 20 miles east of the town of Mashiki, where the epicenters of the strongest of the recent quakes have been clustered. Earthquakes and volcanic activity are closely associated, but the authorities said the eruption at Mount Aso, the biggest active volcano in Japan, was minor and did not pose an immediate threat. Sections of a stone wall, centuries old, around Kumamoto Castle collapsed into the castle’s moat on Saturday morning. The castle had already sustained damage in the earthquake on Thursday. Several buildings at Aso Shrine, an ancient Shinto shrine on the north slope of Mount Aso that is considered a national treasure, also collapsed. The Meteorological Agency classified the quake that set the disaster in motion on Thursday as a “foreshock” of the even larger one on Saturday. It warned that strong earthquakes could continue for days until the seismic fault line under the area settled. Heavy rain was expected in the area starting Saturday night, which would increase the risk of landslides. In the town of   east of Mashiki, landslides tore the moorings from a   suspension bridge, causing it to plunge into a valley, and buried more than a dozen homes, NHK said. Two students in a university agricultural program died after a dormitory building in the town collapsed, the network said. The government said it was sending units from the army, known in Japan as the   Forces, and from police departments around the country to help with rescue efforts. The earthquakes since Thursday have been concentrated along a cluster of fault lines that bisect the island of Kyushu at its center, from southwest to northeast. The island, somewhat larger than the state of Maryland, is home to 13 million people, though most of it is rural and sparsely populated. The quake Saturday was the strongest to strike Japan since a massive, 9.  offshore earthquake in 2011, which unleashed a tsunami that killed 18, 000 people in the country’s northeast and triggered meltdowns at a nuclear power plant in Fukushima. Kyushu is home to the only Japanese nuclear power station currently in operation, the Sendai Nuclear Power Plant, about 75 miles southwest of Mashiki. Ground vibrations at Sendai were comparatively mild and were not threatening enough to trigger an automatic emergency shutdown, the Kyushu Electric Power Company said. The plant continued to operate normally on Saturday, the utility said.