MASHIKI, Japan  —   The death toll from two powerful earthquakes and a series of aftershocks on the Japanese island of Kyushu reached 41 on Saturday, the authorities said, as rescue workers searched for survivors under collapsed buildings and mountains of earth displaced by landslides. The largest of the earthquakes struck the southwestern island early Saturday with a magnitude of 7. 0, according to the United States Geological Survey, making it even more powerful than a 6.  quake on Thursday night. The Japan Meteorological Agency said its measurements had registered the new quake at a magnitude of 7. 3. Saturday’s quake, which occurred just before 1:30 a. m. toppled houses and apartment buildings, buckled roads and caused numerous landslides. Hundreds of aftershocks shook the area, more than 100 of them strong enough to damage buildings, the Meteorological Agency reported. “My house survived the first quake, but the second one was too strong,” said Masafumi Uchimura, 80, a retired water maintenance worker in the town of Mashiki, in Kumamoto Prefecture, the epicenter of the two large quakes. “Everything in town is wrecked, but we have to rebuild. ” Mr. Uchimura’s    wooden home, which he shared with his wife, daughter and two grandsons, leaned at a precarious angle, its walls and beams splintered, its furnishings upturned in a jumble inside. Mr. Uchimura said his older brother, who lived nearby, was killed in Saturday’s quake. Other homes in Mashiki collapsed. Amid the aftershocks, many people said they had spent several nights camped in their cars, deeming them safer than houses or even the community centers that served as temporary shelters. The police said 32 deaths were confirmed in Kumamoto Prefecture Saturday as a result of the quake and the aftershocks, adding to nine deaths on Thursday. Many of those killed were older people some were trapped under collapsed buildings, and several died in fires and landslides in the mountainous region. About 2, 000 people were treated for injuries, the authorities said. Tens of thousands left their homes for school gymnasiums, community centers and other temporary shelter. Many homes had no water or power on Sunday morning. Some people prepared to spend the night in their cars. TV footage showed dark smoke rising from Mount Aso, a volcano about 20 miles east of the town of Mashiki. Earthquakes and volcanic activity are closely associated, but the authorities said the eruption at Mount Aso, the biggest active volcano in Japan, was minor and did not pose an immediate threat. Sections of a stone wall, centuries old, around Kumamoto Castle collapsed into the moat on Saturday morning. The castle had already sustained damage on Thursday. Several buildings at Aso Shrine, an ancient Shinto site on the north slope of Mount Aso that is considered a national treasure, also collapsed. The Meteorological Agency classified the quake that set the disaster in motion on Thursday as a “foreshock” of the even larger one Saturday. It warned that strong quakes could continue for days until the fault line under the area settled. Heavy rain fell Saturday night, increasing the landslide risk, but the storm had cleared by Sunday morning. In the village of   east of Mashiki, landslides tore the moorings from a   suspension bridge, causing it to plunge into a valley, and buried more than a dozen homes, NHK, the national public broadcaster, said. Helicopters rescued a number of injured residents who could not be reached by road.. Two students in a university agricultural program died after a dorm in the town collapsed, NHK said. Eight people in   remained missing on Sunday. The government dispatched 25, 000 personnel from the   Forces, as the Japanese military is known, as well as units from police and fire departments around the country, to help with rescue efforts. The earthquakes since Thursday have been concentrated along a cluster of fault lines that bisect the island of Kyushu from southwest to northeast. The island, somewhat larger than the state of Maryland, is home to 13 million people, though most of it is rural and sparsely populated. The quake on Saturday was the strongest to strike Japan since a 9.  offshore earthquake in 2011, which unleashed a tsunami that killed 18, 000 people in the country’s northeast and set off meltdowns at a nuclear plant in Fukushima.