Updated, 10:04 a. m. Good morning on this phenomenal Monday. For the first time in decades, the New York presidential primaries will be consequential to both the Democratic and the Republican nominations. “If you have a legitimate chance of victory, this is really your    time,” David Birdsell, dean of the Baruch College School of Public Affairs, said of the candidates. So we’ve heard them debate our values, weigh into local politics and barnstorm our public spaces with booming speeches. It’s all to connect with New York’s diverse voters. “You’ve got liberal pockets, conservative pockets, upstate, downstate and the city,” Mr. Birdsell said. “That keeps the conversation alive  . ” It’s crunchtime. Our primaries come late in the voting calendar. And we’re a   state, with 95 Republican and 291 Democratic delegates up for grabs. Donald J. Trump, for one, is looking for a big win here to avoid a contested convention and push past a troubling few weeks for his campaign. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio are also fighting, particularly to peel away as many delegates as possible from Mr. Trump. And a big win in New York could help Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont fight for another day for the Democratic nomination against Hillary Clinton. Especially if you’re part of a crucial voting bloc, New York City could shape the outcome. The fun starts Tuesday. Here’s what else is happening: Today will be just about perfect, at least in our books  —   sunny, glowing skies with a high near 78. In: SPF, floral   and lunch outdoors. Out: Wool socks, dark colors and afternoon meetings. • The presidential race has taken on a distinctly New York character in the prelude to Tuesday’s primary. [New York Times] • The persistence of homeless people at New York City’s major transit hubs reflects an intractable problem. [New York Times] • The police are easing their handling of subway riders who beg for a MetroCard swipe. [New York Times] • Ecuadoreans in Queens react to the catastrophic earthquake that killed hundreds and injured thousands in their country. [New York Times] • New York City officers shot and killed a man in Queens. [New York Times] • Thousands of people rallied for Mr. Sanders in Prospect Park, Brooklyn, on Sunday. [DNA Info] • Scoreboard: Yankees buoy Mariners,  . Mets meet Indians,  . Islanders desert Panthers,   (in overtime). • For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Monday Briefing. • A group exhibition of   paintings and sculpture is at the Queens College Art Center in Flushing. 9 a. m. [Free] • Take a ukulele class, for beginners and experienced students, at the Jerome Park Library in the Bronx. 6 p. m. [Free] • Join the Warm Your Heart Project and knit or crochet scarves for the city’s homeless at the Mariners Harbor Library on Staten Island. 6:30 p. m. [Free] • The author Michael Cunningham speaks with Frank Delaney at the Irish Arts Center in Midtown Manhattan. 7:30 p. m. [$12] • Compete in a novice shuffleboard tournament at the Diamond in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. 7:30 p. m. [$3] • Candidate tracker: Mrs. Clinton will speak at the New York Hilton Midtown at 12 p. m. Mr. Sanders will hold a rally at Hunter’s Point South Park in Long Island City, Queens, at 5 p. m. and Mr. Trump is holding a rally in Buffalo. • For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts  Entertainment guide. • Subway  and PATH  • Railroads: L. I. R. R.   N. J. Transit, Amtrak • Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s. •   parking: in effect until April 23. • Ferries: Staten Island Ferry, New York Waterway, East River Ferry • Airports: La Guardia, J. F. K. Newark Take a long stroll in Manhattan, and you may walk past a building that an American president once called home. During the city’s brief reign as the nation’s capital, George Washington and his family lived at 3 Cherry Street in Lower Manhattan. In Kips Bay, a townhouse at 123 Lexington Avenue was the home of Chester A. Arthur and where he took the oath of office in 1881. A few blocks south, a townhouse at 28 East 20th Street (now a replica) was the childhood home of Theodore Roosevelt, the only president born in New York City. And among the others, an apartment at 142 West 109th Street in Morningside Heights was where President Obama lived when he was a junior at Columbia University. It was even available for rent in 2010. At the time the landlord did not charge a presidential premium. New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a. m. till late morning. You can receive it via email. For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook. What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes. com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.  Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter. You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday. com.