According to The Independent Journal’s congressional reporter Joe Perticone, the man holding the camera in the video below is a journalist. Perticone writes, “Secret Service agent choke slams reporter. ” The video doesn’t show that [updated] Videos added below appear to show the reporter intentionally bumping up against the agent and saying “f*ck you” before the agent throws him to the ground. From the ground, you can see the reporter kicking the agent from an apparent defensive position.  Nevertheless, once whatever happened between the two men is over, and both are standing, watch the reporter suddenly reach out and grab the Secret Service agent’s throat.  —   Secret Service agent choke slams reporter pic. twitter.   —   Joe Perticone (@JoePerticone) February 29, 2016,   —   Reporter at Trump Rally accuses SS agent of choking him. pic. twitter.   —   Jacqueline Alemany (@JaxAlemany) February 29, 2016,   —   ADDED: Additionally, the video below shows a chest bump between the agent and the Time reporter. Perticone reports that things got physical after the Time reporter said “fuck you” to the Secret Service agent.  —   Here’s moments prior. The reporter says “f*ck you”  —   that’s when it got physical pic. twitter.   —   Joe Perticone (@JoePerticone) February 29, 2016,   —   ADDED: Here is video of the actual takedown, which, according to Perticone, happened after what looks like a chest bump and the reporter telling the agent, “f*ck you. ” Perticone reports that this happened at Donald Trump’s Monday afternoon campaign rally in Virginia. CNN reports that the reporter is Time photographer Chris Morris, who claims he was “assaulted first” and that he will not press charges.  —   Time photographer Chris Morris tells @Acosta @KristenhCNN he was assaulted first, he never hit the agent,  won’t press charges,  —   Noah Gray CNN (@NoahGrayCNN) February 29, 2016,   —   ADDED: Perticone is now calling my   “misleading. ” But his tweet is misleading. His own video (third one above) shows what looks like the reporter intentionally bumping up against the Secret Service agent and saying “f*ck you” before the  . Then after things have settled down and appear over, the reporter grabs the agent’s throat. The entire altercation is captured above on the four videos. This is false and misleading. First example of violence came from the officer. I know, it’s my video https:  .   —   Joe Perticone (@JoePerticone) February 29, 2016,    ADDED: The Secret Service has released a statement: ADDED: The reporter claims he grabbed the agent’s throat to demonstrate to the agent what the agent had just done to him.   Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                