A foreign correspondent for about 15 years, Alissa Rubin is known for descending deep into some of the world’s scariest conflicts and returning with rare, often poignant glimpses into the plights of soldiers, survivors and victims. On Monday, the Pulitzer Prize board gave Ms. Rubin its international reporting award for her 2015 work in Afghanistan, where it said “she delivered deeply reported, moving articles about the struggle to improve the lives of women. ” Since joining The Los Angeles Times in 1997, Ms. Rubin has spent much of her career covering Iraq, Afghanistan and the Balkans. After assignments for the newspaper in Iraq and France, she was hired by The New York Times in 2007 as a correspondent in the Baghdad bureau, where she went on to serve as its chief. In 2009, she became chief of The Times’s bureau in Kabul, Afghanistan. The work was sometimes harrowing. In August 2014, Ms. Rubin was in a helicopter that crashed while delivering aid to Yazidi refugees in Iraqi Kurdistan. She suffered severely broken wrists and a fractured skull. Later, as she narrated the experience from a hospital bed in Baghdad, her concerns focused on the refugees and the pilot. Over her career, Ms. Rubin has earned recognition from the industry as a reporter of unique courage and fierce intellect. She has picked up a number of awards, among them the 2015 John Chancellor Award, which honors lifetime achievement in journalism. A Pulitzer was not the only recognition she received on Monday. Earlier in the day, Atlantic Media announced that it was bestowing its 2016 Michael Kelly Award on Ms. Rubin for her series of articles on women in Afghanistan. A news release said she risked her life to capture the struggles of the women “in illuminating and sensitive detail. ” Earlier in her career, Ms. Rubin worked at The Congressional Quarterly, The Wichita Eagle and The American Lawyer magazine. She is a graduate of Brown University and earned a master’s degree in history from Columbia University. Ms. Rubin now serves as The Times’s bureau chief in Paris. Below are some highlights from Ms. Rubin’s work. Dec. 26, 2015, The New York Times • At first, the trial and convictions in the death of Farkhunda Malikzada seemed a victory in the long struggle to give Afghan women their due in court. But a deeper look suggests otherwise. March 2, 2015, The New York Times • Women’s shelters are one of the most provocative legacies of the Western presence in Afghanistan. March 1, 2015, The New York Times • In a clash between Western ideals and Afghan realities, an effort to elevate the status of women by recruiting them to the police force has often backfired. June 27, 2012, The New York Times • A young woman’s accusation of rape and abduction against a local police unit highlights the persistence of tribal custom, the fragility of newly legislated protections for women, and the power of armed men. Aug. 12, 2009, The New York Times Magazine • An encounter in Iraq with a ( ) female suicide bomber. Jan. 25, 2009, The New York Times • Prime Minister Nuri Kamal   of Iraq is trying to reassure Iraqis that he will respect local interests. Aug. 26, 2005, The Los Angeles Times • “After hearing about a suicide bombing, my interpreter and I often went to Yarmouk Hospital, which has one of the largest refrigerated morgues in the city. That is where I first met Abu Imad. ”