The Australian leg of Madonna’s controversial Rebel Heart tour is attracting more negative attention, this time after the    exposed the breast of a    fan on stage. [Video of the incident shows Madonna inviting a    fan to join her as she performed Thursday night at the Brisbane Entertainment Centre in Queensland.  “She’s the kind of girl you just want to slap   …     on the ass,” Madonna said of the young fan. The singer then pulled down the teen’s tube top shirt, exposing one of her breasts to the thousands of people in attendance: “Oh s —  t. I am so sorry, sexual harassment. You can do the same to me,” said Madonna, who then pointed toward her crotch, and asked the teen, “You want to make my hole big again?” According to Fox News, the fan has been identified as Josephine Georgiou, 17. Georgiou later defended Madonna: Only I get to decide if I’m humiliated or not, why would people assume I am humiliated by my own breast, nipple or body? It’s hilarious to me how much of a big deal it is to everyone, people just need to understand I was on stage in front of Madonna, I was looking her in the eyes and most people would just melt into a pool on stage, so it was only because I was standing in front of her that I looked so surprised. The incident occurred just days after the allegedly intoxicated singer asked another audience, “Someone please f —  k me.   …     Somebody take care of me, please. Who is going to take care of me?” Madonna had reportedly been sipping from a bottle of tequila during that show. The singer has been accused of performing   concerts while under the influence of alcohol   marijuana and leaving fans waiting for hours. Madonna has deemed critics of her unusual behavior sexist and misogynistic. “I could never do any of my shows drunk or high,” she explained on Instagram. “And yes underlying all of this is sexism and mysongony [sic] which proves that not only do we not get equal pay but we are still treated like heretics if we step out of line and think outside the box! Sexism is alive and kicking but I am #livingforlove. ” Madonna is currently ensnared in an international custody battle with her former husband, British film director Guy Ritchie.