TEL AVIV  —     Donald Trump might be Jewish, a   of   terror group Hamas told Al Jazeera in an interview following the U. S. elections. [“Trump loves the Jews, and not only because he likes the Jewish religion,” Mahmoud   said.  “I do not rule out the possibility that he is a Jew. ” “He loves the Jewish religion, and the most important thing in the Jewish religion is Jewish money,” he added, making an   comment. Zahar also baselessly claimed that “Jewish money” was used in the past to catapult presidential candidates to victory. “In 1947, Harry Truman was a marginal candidate in the US elections,” Zahar said. “He was approached by the Jewish money  —   which is the Jewish religion  —   and was awarded two million dollars, which made his electoral campaign prosper.   …     The outcome was that he won. Truman’s first decision  —   driven by those two million dollars  —   was to recognize the Israeli entity in 1948. So the Jewish ‘religion’  —   the Jewish dollar  —   is the real decisive factor. ” Zahar, whose group is behind hundreds of deadly terrorist attacks, slammed the U. S. for being a “violent” nation, adding that wrestling matches were proof of this. The terror chief called on viewers to “see how the crowd reacts to the wrestlers, how it relates to this unnatural violence. That is their culture, their model for heroism: obscene language, obscene acts, obscene declarations, and obscene attacks on other countries. That is the [American] culture and upbringing. That is their true religion. ” He also said “sexual scandals” are the “belief” and “culture” of every American president and of the American people at large. Watch the video on MEMRI. Last month Zahar said Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas was “a Jew” for attending the funeral of former Israeli president Shimon Peres. Zahar told Iranian television: “This man who claims to represent Palestinian public opinion is by religious standards a Jew. For the millionth time: He doesn’t represent us, he is a creation of Israel and I hope he joins Peres in hell. ”