On June 12, 2016, 49 innocent lives were taken at the hands of an ISIS extremist. This marks the most harrowing domestic terrorist attack since   as well as the deadliest mass shooting in United States history. [As people enjoyed their Saturday night at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, FL. no one could have guessed what terror was around the corner. As dozens of shots rang out, the heinous intentions of a   slaughterer were clear.  Since   we have had 28, 135 terrorist attacks committed by Islamic jihadists that have occurred around the world. We know what the problem is, we’re just afraid to say it. Terrorist activity is on the rise, and President Barack Obama chooses to close his eyes and put his fingers in his ears. This blatant disregard for our country’s safety is inadmissible, yet U. S. citizens still blindly follow this failed and egocentric leadership. As Americans, we need to wake up and acknowledge the dismal reality: as long as Obama is in office, ISIS is winning. Each time our president pleas for gun control as a remedy to these vicious attacks, ISIS wins. Each time Obama refuses to utter the words “radical Islamic terrorism,” ISIS wins. The longer we stand by and refuse to accept we are at war with a relentless enemy, ISIS wins. ISIS, the strongest, most ferocious, and   terrorist organization in the world today now has footholds in over a dozen countries ruling over roughly 10 million citizens. They are leveraging our kindness for their own selfish, destructive gain. They are utilizing our open borders, our willingness to accommodate them, and taking advantage of all that America has to offer so that they can ultimately destroy us from within. Our enemies are laughing at us while reaping the benefits off the backs of hard working taxpayers. Meanwhile, our   leaders continue to live in denial while standing in line to ride Islamic unicorns and sing kumbaya. Our government has become so corrupt that they reward bad behavior and offer benefits to illegal immigrants who refuse to assimilate or contribute to the economy. As homeless veterans perish in the streets, thousands of “refugees” are living the high life in their   dwellings. This is an outrage. It is time we stop evading the truth and confront the issue  : the early Sunday morning massacre was a demonic and ruthless act of terrorism inspired by ISIS radicals. The sugarcoated, politically correct culture we reside in will only result in our own demise. As Obama sits back complacently and avoids naming the enemy, Jihadists continue to gain ground as they plot their next attack. The only way we can avert our impending peril is by uniting against these Islamic militants. Beneath Sharia Law, homosexuality is punishable by death and this sadistic ritual is performed all too often in Middle Eastern countries. If anyone should be leading the fight against Islamic belligerency, should it not be the social justice warriors and gay rights activists? Regrettably, the Obama administration has accomplished the exact opposite. The president has nurtured a false reality where everyone around the planet is best friends with one another. Nefariously, Obama disguises the fact that this parallel universe is unachievable in the real world. The shameless   and glamorization of an oppressive lifestyle that seeks to obliterate our Western values is deplorable and counterproductive to our   as an independent nation. As we stand by and quarrel amongst ourselves about trivial matters, the true foe is systematically devising our extermination. We are hated in the name of ideology while our government claims the solution is nested in more gun control. They are convinced we should “kill ‘em with kindness” as our opposition LITERALLY kills us. ISIS law does not recognize morality or ethics in any form, so why should we feel obligated to welcome such malice into our civilized society? However, our    did not stealthily worm his way into the oval office by circumstance, he was elected by the vast majority. Twice. Removing one subversive ringleader from authority is not a   for the underlying problem it is correcting this absurd PC culture as a whole. We have allowed this perspective, constructed solely upon subjectivity and emotion, to reign supreme in a    world. Battling immoral savages with tolerance and benevolence is a recipe for disaster. The Obama administration has planted the seed that political correctness should guide significant cultural decisions. Unfortunately, these seeds have sprouted into poisonous weeds that will only choke our very freedom. We must learn from history instead of ignoring the warning signs in fear of being labeled “Islamophobes. ” We cannot back down from our American principles that made us who we are. A proud patriot is the most gratifying title an American can attain, and if that means being called a bigot, then we must wear that badge with pride too. Liberty is our greatest asset, so let’s stand up for America before there isn’t one to stand up for. Brigitte Gabriel is a terrorism analyst and a two times NYT bestselling author of “Because They Hate” and “They Must Be Stopped”. She is the Founder and President of ACT for America, the largest national security grassroots organization in the U. S. dedicated to combating terrorism.