Los Angeles County supervisors Janice Hahn and Hilda Solis are asking their colleagues to join them in setting aside $1 million in county funds that can be used to help illegal immigrants fight deportation. [It is estimated that LA County’s illegal immigrant population is over 800, 000, and the $1 million in funding would come from taxpayers’ pockets.  According to KPCC, supervisor Hahn’s spokeswoman Liz Odendahl explained that “The idea is to set up the legal fund with $1 million in the first year, then obtain matching funds from public or private donors. ” The move is a preemptive one, aimed at     Donald Trump’s pledge “to deport millions of immigrants living in the country illegally. ” Hahn said, “Many immigrants who are facing deportation have a legal avenue to stay in this country, but they are not aware of it because they don’t have legal representation. ” The push to use taxpayer funds to benefit illegal immigrants is not new to California. In 2014 Governor Jerry Brown (D) “authorized about $3 million annually for nonprofit legal services providers to represent unaccompanied minors arriving at the U. S.  border. ” Breitbart News previously reported that amnesty groups in California are working to deny federal access to the database containing names of gang members in the state. This, too, is a preemptive move aimed at preventing members of the Trump administration from searching the database for illegals, who may thereafter be deported. The Voice of OC quoted Trump from a   60 Minutes interview in which he “vowed to immediately deport as many as three million undocumented immigrants, specifically those with criminal records such as gang members and drug dealers. ” The proposal to use $1 million in taxpayer funds to protect illegals will be voted on next week. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.