On Saturday, Republican nominee Donald Trump addressed the American families victimized by open borders that have been “forced into the shadows” by both establishment politicians and media elites. [“Help is coming,” Trump told the angel families, assuring them that “their loved ones will not have died in vain. ”  At a Saturday luncheon hosted by the Remembrance Project, a group that represents the American victims of illegal alien crime, Trump honored the “stolen American lives” and pledged to “advocate for justice on behalf of all American victims. ” Trump explained that contrary to the corporate media’s narrative, it is these American victims who have been “truly forced into the shadows. ” Trump said: I’m honored to be here today and to shine a national spotlight on a group of victims who have been forced, and I mean truly forced into the shadows. Your stories are not featured in the news. You don’t have demonstrators taking to the streets on your behalf. You have no special interests taking up your cause. And the politicians ignore your cries for help. But I never will. I will never  …     Your cause and your stories are ignored by our political establishment because they are determined to keep our borders open at any cost. To them your presence is just too inconvenient. That’s all it is, it’s an inconvenience. “Help is coming. I’ll tell you that, help is coming,” Trump declared. “On November 8th, we’re going to win the White House [loud applause]. And we are going to deliver justice for every American family and every single American victim  …     Together we will save American lives and prevent the next thousand American parents from suffering the same fate of the people in this room today. Their loved ones will not have died in vain. ” Trump noted that “there are so many people,” who have been victimized by open borders. “The devastation is unbelievable. ” “This has to end. It will end. if I become president, I promise you it will end,” Trump pledged. “Not one more American life should be given up in the name of open borders. ” “Whether its drug, terrorism, or violent crime our government is utterly failing in its core mission to defend and protect the people of this country,” Trump said, adding: The most fundamental duty of government is to protect American lives  …     Anyone who fails to understand this is not fit to hold public office (loud applause). Every day our border remains open, innocent Americans are needlessly victimized and killed  …     Every day we fail to enforce our laws  …     is a day when a loving parent is at risk of losing their child. And it’s happening every single day. All across this country, dining room tables have an empty seat at the family table because our government abandoned its duty and failed to enforce our basic laws. “What do you tell the mother who just buried her daughter because someone was released at the border who should have been sent home?” Trump asked. “What do you tell the young boy who will grow up without a dad because a criminal was deported five times, but was allowed to keep coming back, and coming back, and coming back into our country doing tremendous harm?” “There are a lot of numbers in the immigration debate,” Trump added. “Let me give you the most important number of all. That most important number of all is the number of American lives that is acceptable to lose in the name of illegal immigration. Let me tell you what that number is: zero. Zero. Our nation should not accept one lost American life because our country failed to enforce its laws. ” Trump, who described these forgotten American families as “some of the bravest people I know,” said that advocating on behalf of their interests has “become a personal passion” of his: I’ve met many incredible people during the course of this campaign but nothing has moved me more deeply than the time I’ve spent with the families of the Remembrance Project  …     I have known many of you for a long time now. I’m still here, and you’re still here —  still fighting  …     The strength and the courage that you’ve shown in your very often lonely fight for justice —  we’ll get there —  you are the heroes. You are. And your actions will help us to save the next thousand American citizens from losing their brothers and sisters and sons and daughters and parents. Trump met with the families privately backstage for an hour prior to the luncheon. “These are truly wounded families. And sadly, they’ll never be the same. ” Trump told the crowd, noting that while they were backstage, “I asked them if it gets better with time  …     They said it doesn’t, and that sometimes it gets worse with time. ” Trump explained that these “unbelievably strong and brave people” are “representing thousands and thousands” of others who have suffered similar losses as a result our open borders. Trump concluded by, once again, reaffirming his commitment to fight on their behalf and on behalf of the American people. “We will fight, and we will win, and again I say your loved ones will not have died in vain. ” Maria Espinoza, founder of the Remembrance Project, thanked Trump for the compassion he has shown to “America’s most forgotten families. ” Espinoza said, “On June 16th 2015, most Americans probably don’t remember that day, but here our families do. We remember that day because that is the day Donald Trump announced his run for President of the United States. There is only one candidate who spoke the truth. There is only one candidate who reached out to our stolen lives families, America’s most forgotten families. There is only one candidate who embraced and took in his arms the mothers whose children were killed, innocent victims. And for over 15 months Mr. Trump has traveled all across the United States and met with our families and listened to their stories. ”