KISS frontman Gene Simmons scolded politically outspoken celebrities in a recent television interview and suggested that they keep their political opinions to themselves. [“I think celebrities should basically shut their pie holes and do what they do best  —   act, sing, tap dance, juggle balls, and all that kind of stuff,” Simmons said in an interview with Fox Business this week.  The rock star said those “uninformed” Americans protesting the election results should understand that the “electoral college has spoken. ” “The founding fathers in their wisdom actually did many things right, including creating the electoral college,” Simmons said. “The electoral college has spoken. It was created to circumvent all sorts of issues including the popular vote. ” Simmons said if liberal activists want to replace the electoral college, that’s “fine,” but they should “go out there and force [their] legislatures to pass laws” instead of wasting time on protests. “  Trump is the president,” he added. “You can like it, you cannot like it. He’s the new president, that’s the end of the story. ” Simmons’s comments echo those of actor Mark Wahlberg, who said last week that he believes “out of touch” celebrities should stick to entertaining Americans instead of pushing politics on them. “A lot of celebrities did, do, and shouldn’t [talk about politics] Wahlberg told Task  Purpose. “You know, it just goes to show you that people aren’t listening to that anyway. They might buy your CD or watch your movie, but you don’t put food on their table. You don’t pay their bills. ” “A lot of Hollywood is living in a bubble,” Wahlberg continued. They’re pretty out of touch with the common person, the everyday guy out there providing for their family. ” Simmons had praised Trump earlier this year for his ability to ignore his critics and be politically incorrect. “I think people are sick and tired of politicians who have words that are written by other people. And they are trying to cater and make everybody happy  …     He doesn’t care,” Simmons said of Trump.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson