North Korean dictator Kim   reportedly encouraged the nation’s scientists to develop more rockets for the launching of alleged “satellites” into space, less than a month after receiving wide condemnation from the free world, and even some notes of concern from China, over a rocket launch. [At a banquet Saturday to congratulate the scientists that had developed the rocket and   satellite system launched last weekend, North Korean news agencies report that Kim encouraged them to work on more similar projects. Kim allegedly “called for turning out scientific research to hit a higher target with the present great success as a springboard for greater victory and, thus, launching more working satellites,” according to South Korea’s Yonhap news agency, citing the Korean Central News Agency run out of Pyongyang.  Kim allegedly explained the reasoning behind launching the satellite as a reaction to “the hostile forces  …     getting evermore frantic to suffocate” North Korea, possibly referring to the extensive criticism following a nuclear test that Kim’s regime has insisted was the detonation of a hydrogen bomb. “The successful   test is a special event that settled the   grudge of the fellow countrymen and dealt a merciless blow at the Korean nation’s sworn enemy, the U. S. imperialists working with bloodshot eyes to launch a nuclear war against the DPRK [Democratic People’s Republic of Korea],” North Korea said then. The satellite, he claimed Saturday, was a “telling blow to the enemies seeking to block the advance of our country. ” “The credit for the present great success goes to the strength of close relationship between the Party and you, scientists, in which the former believes in the latter and vice versa,” North Korean newspaper Rodong Sinmun quotes Kim as saying. While praising the scientists, he allegedly told them “the course of conquering space was for the purpose of the revolution and independence rather than for that of science. ” Western observers doubt there is much reason to celebrate the launching of the   satellite last week. For days, scientists in the United States noted that the satellite appeared to be “tumbling” in space, rendering it unable to send any data back to earth. By Wednesday, an American official confirmed that North Korea had finally “got the tumbling under control” and lodged it in its rightful position in space, but officials still have no evidence the satellite is sending any information to North Korea.