At work, propped against a wall, near piles of stuff, stands an Elvis Presley cutout. It’s made of cardboard, pretty beat up, taller than I am and not the greatest photo. (He looks drunk. So does his lamé suit.) But I pass that cutout almost every day, and every day I have the same thought. Elvis was hot. He was a musician, but he didn’t have to be playing music for you to feel this way. Cardboard would do. That’s charisma. And the only star who had more than Elvis was Prince. His hotness differed, of course it came from somewhere else. Cardboard won’t cut it for him. If Elvis was sex, Prince was a sexual orientation. His own. And it was oriented toward you. And you. And you. Name a pop act from the 1980s, and, amazingly, androgyny was somewhere in the mix: Thompson Twins, the Human League, pick a   act. For Boy George and Jermaine Stewart, it was the whole mix. Most of these guys were vague on gender and passive on desire: “Hold Me Now” “Don’t You Want Me?” Guys, if you have to ask   …     Officially, Prince wasn’t gay. But was he straight? Did he blow out his hair, love heels and platforms, and own every look, from flouncy Romantic consumptive to bathhouse matador to Easter Sunday deacon? He did. On “Controversy,” he rhetorically poses the question: “Am I straight or gay?” And yet it never seemed to matter. Even after he changed his name to the symbol of the male gender sign overlaid atop its female counterpart, he was always only ever Prince. And how not vague was he? How not passive? He always knew what he wanted, and most of the time that was you. He could plead, the way he does on “If I Was Your Girlfriend,” from “Sign O’ the Times,” a magnum opus from 1987 where Prince tries seduction by hypothetical  . But he keeps hitting a wall, and gets testy. It’s a gorgeous conflation of sexual intensity and sex comedy, Prince as feminist and Pepé Le Pew. He wasn’t a breakup artist (“Purple Rain” is a rare “it’s over” song). He was both a    artist and a breakdown master. The   includes luscious ballads like “Adore,” “Still Would Stand All Time,” and “Pink Cashmere. ” And a lot of what broke him down was lust. At some black churches, the high point of the service involves somebody catching the holy spirit. The high point of some Prince songs involves him catching the horny spirit. “Kiss” is basically a danceable personal ad (“U don’t have to be beautiful to turn me on”) and when he loses it at the end, screaming, “Ain’t no particular sign I’m more compatible with,” it’s like he’s been out on his 14th different date with a woman who wants to talk astrology. He just wants to go home with the right lady. And where is she? Carnality was to Prince what photosynthesis is to plants. And in this metaphor, as befits a man famous for playing all his own instruments, he’s also the bee, pollinating pleasure. On his records, he could be artistically and sexually promiscuous. But he was curious and studious of whomever he was with, too. And sometimes it could all make him seem ridiculous without equal. Take “The Continental. ” It’s a jam in the middle of 1992’s “Love Symbol” album, the least properly rated of his underrated records (it’s the one with “Sexy MF” and “7,” one of his vaguest but very best songs). On it, he makes an entreaty: “Tell me how you want to be done,” and it conjures images of a man standing at the sex grill in a “[bleep] the cook” apron. This is to say that Prince, in his music, wasn’t shy. (The first song on the “Love Symbol” album announces, “My name is Prince, and I am funky. ”) Some of that was the music: the thump of a kick drum the way his drum programming could sound as if it was knocking on crates, doors, clouds the wizardly keyboard work his alchemical synthesis of James Brown’s precision,  ’s shape shifts, the fraying blues of Jimi Hendrix and Betty Davis’s grit. Some of this was the songwriting. He was a terrific poet. And terrific poetry can be thrilling to recite, even if it gets you sent to the principal’s office or slapped in the face. For Sheena Easton, he wrote a song that no    could resist. It was called “Sugar Walls. ” Take it from me: “Sugar Walls” will land you in detention. Prince knew. On that one, he used the pseudonym Alexander Nevermind, presumably so that when the song enraged Tipper Gore, the head of the Parents Music Resource Center  —   and it did  —   he could restring his guitars in peace. Obviously, Prince saved his best stuff for himself. None of his peers had better randy songs about attraction. No one had a better falsetto ad lib for lust, either: “Owah!” You’d have to go back to the blues or forward to   for rivals. Consider “Raspberry Beret,” the first single from 1985’s “Around the World in a Day. ” After the hard edges of the songs on “Purple Rain,” here was something totally new: melting strings, finger cymbals and a melody that sails upward like a   balloon. Lyrically, it’s the first cousin of “Little Red Corvette,” a filthy    song that should also get you in trouble but whose metaphors  —   and singing  —   are too virtuosic for condemnation. The story Prince tells in “Raspberry Beret” is practically a short one. A girl walks into the store where the narrator’s   and he rides off to some idyllic place that’s ideal for doing it. This is a song I favor at karaoke. I like the complete sentences, and the confident language makes me feel sexy. But the bridge is the reason I like to sing it. I haven’t found a better one. “Rain sounds so   it hits the barn   the horses wonder who U   drowns out what the lightning   feel like a movie star. ” For lots of other artists, that would be enough. But there’s more, because he was clearly on a roll: “They say the first time ain’t the   I tell   I had the chance to do it all   wouldn’t change a   ’cause baby I’m the   a girl as fine as she was then. ” By the end, he’s caught the horny ghost. The story is so gorgeously worded that I can see what’s happening. Prince was never a big fan of music videos  —   the ones he does appear in aren’t great. But with lyrics this good, they didn’t have to be. Too many of Prince’s sex songs are too perfect to assert that any one is better than the rest. But if you made me pick the best composed, conceived and executed of that class of songs, I’d choose “Raspberry Beret. ” At least, I would today. Unsurprisingly, the thing about Prince and sex is that you have to be in the mood. He’s great enough to seduce you, but sometimes you want to sweat, sometimes you don’t. And for sweat, I’m partial to the frustration jams like “Tambourine,” a song from “Around the World in a Day” that should have been released as a single. It’s dirty, but it’s no “Sugar Walls. ” “Tambourine” has a tight funk that rattles and thrums. And the screaming is ecstatic. Even better was the slinkier funk of “Hot Thing,” which appears on 1987’s “Sign O’ the Times. ” It’s hard to overstate the importance of screaming to Prince’s hotness. It means something. He, Madonna, and Michael Jackson are the biggest and most important pop stars of the 1980s and early ’90s, and of the three, it’s Prince who could really embed different expressions of lust in his songwriting. Madonna embodied it. Jackson made it sound like a gospel emergency and had more control over that roaring register. But I don’t know that Prince wanted control. Losing it was built into the songs. He never lost it more than on “Darling Nikki,” a song from “Purple Rain” whose notoriety precedes it. All that really happens is that some woman named Nikki  —   “I guess you could say she was a sex fiend”  —   sleeps with the narrator and is leaving when he wakes up. I was 9 when the album came out, and the P. M. R. C. campaign against the song must have reached my mother because I was told I couldn’t have a copy. So I didn’t spend much time with that song until I was an adult. It wasn’t until I took a long drive with a friend that I actually heard “Darling Nikki. ” We listened to “Purple Rain” four times. That’s enough to catch new things. We heard the screaming. It wasn’t from an orgasm but from pain. He’s wailing. Then we noticed that pain was tied to the frenzied beating of a kick drum and wondered if the P. M. R. C. heard that, too. Prince eventually expunged the song from his live repertoire. He’d become more conservative and more religious. But speaking practically, who can keep up that level of frustration? There’s something about the way Prince hits bottom that makes me think that he never wanted to go back there, to having sex alone. Raspberry berets for everybody! His interest in partnership and flattery and pleasure were hot  —   to his partner, but especially to him. In his music, he offers to dance naked ballets and catch the other person’s germs. He would brag about himself. He would also spread the boasting around. His name was Prince, and he was funky. But the hot thing? That’s U.