CAIRO (AP)  —   An Egyptian court on Saturday sentenced six people, including two   employees, to death for allegedly passing documents related to national security to Qatar and the   TV network during the rule of Islamist president Mohammed Morsi. [Morsi, the case’s top defendant, and two of his aides were also sentenced to 25 years in prison. Morsi and his secretary, Amin   received an additional   sentence for a lesser crime.  ’s daughter, Karima, was also sentenced to 15 years in prison.  Morsi was ousted by the military in July 2013 and has already been sentenced to death in another case. That death sentence and another two  —   life and 20 years in prison  —   are under appeal. All of Saturday’s verdicts can be appealed. The two   employees  —   identified by the judge as news producer Alaa Omar Mohammed and news editor Ibrahim Mohammed Hilal  —   were sentenced in absentia along with Asmaa   who worked for Rasd, a media network widely suspected of links to Morsi’s Muslim Brotherhood. The Brotherhood was banned and declared a terrorist group after Morsi’s ouster. The three other defendants sentenced to death Saturday are documentary producer Ahmed Afify, EgyptAir cabin crew member Mohammed Keilany and academic Ahmed Ismail. Egypt’s relations with Qatar have been fraught with tension since the ouster of Morsi, who enjoyed the support of the tiny but wealthy Gulf state. Cairo also maintains that  ’s news coverage of Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East is biased in favor of militant Islamic groups. Last year, President     pardoned two imprisoned journalists from the   English news network. Mohamed Fahmy, an   Canadian, and Egyptian Baher Mohamed were arrested in December 2013. They were sentenced last year to three years in prison for airing what a court described as “false news” and coverage biased in favor of the Muslim Brotherhood. The prosecution of the two, along with Australian Peter Greste  —   deported in February last year  —   drew strong international condemnations. Their   trial was entangled from the start with the wider political enmity between Egypt and Qatar following Morsi’s ouster.