The last remaining Christians in Syria’s Raqqa are being forbidden from leaving “under any condition” by the Islamic State ( ) jihadists who control the   capital of the terrorist group, as forces loyal to dictator Bashar   and their allies advance towards the city. [Raqqa Is Being Silently Slaughtered (RBSS) a group founded by journalists turned activists, revealed that ISIS has put out a new edict prohibiting both Christians and Armenians from leaving Raqqa, the terrorist group’s   capital in Syria.  #ISIS Issued a new decision to Prevent any Christians or Armenians people who Remain in #Raqqa to leave the city under any condition #Syria,  —   الرقة تذبح بصمت (@Raqqa_SL) March 29, 2016,  The revelation came over a month after various news outlets reported that Assad forces, backed by Russian airstrikes in addition to Iranian fighters and Iran’s terror proxy Hezbollah, are advancing towards Raqqa. Syrian forces “have taken rebel ground near Aleppo and are now poised to advance on the ISIS stronghold of Raqqa province,” reported the Independent. Raqqa is the capital of a province that bears the same name. Under mounting pressure, the Obama administration finally conceded in   that ISIS has committed genocide against Christians and other religious minority groups in the areas it has conquered. The U. S. Congress voted unanimously to make the declaration days earlier. Initially, the Obama administration was reluctant to make the designation. Currently, there are approximately 43 Christian families, made up of two to three persons, still residing in Raqqa, the activist group said in a statement on Twitter. #Raqqa We counted 43 Christian family who still remains in #Raqqa city the families is between 2 to 3 persons #Syria #ISIS #ISIL,  —   الرقة تذبح بصمت (@Raqqa_SL) March 31, 2016,  ISIS seized Raqqa in March 2013 in a battle against the Syrian   affiliate Nusra Front and Assad regime troops. The city became the first provincial capital to fall under ISIS control. “The suffering of Christians began with ISIS control of Raqqa,” RBSS said on its website, referring to the treatment of Christians under the terrorist group, reports The Foreign Desk. “ISIS looks at Christians as infidels loyal to the West more than their loyalty to their homeland which they live,” added the group. The Independent quoted an RBSS member writing under the nom de guerre Abu Mohammed as saying that ISIS implemented the ban on Easter without any explanation. Christians have reportedly been unable to celebrate Easter since ISIS took over Raqqa in 2013. The majority of Christians who remain trapped in Raqqa are   families who lacked the means to abandon the city when the opportunity presented itself, notes the Independent. “They suffer from the decisions and practices of the organisation (Isis) which has occupied their places of worship while forcing them to pay tribute, although they are deprived from practicing their rituals and religious practices,” wrote Mohammed said, noting that they are constantly harassed. In the 1920s, Christians, who had lived there for over 2000 years, constituted nearly   of the population in Syria, home to historic Christian sites and artifacts that have been decimated and sold on the black market by ISIS. “Popular belief holds that the apostle Paul converted on the road to Damascus, and a small segment of Christians from the town of Maaloula still speak Aramaic, the language that Jesus spoke,” notes The Foreign Desk. “More recently, 10 percent of Syria’s 22 million population were Christians,” it adds. Christians are forced to choose between three options in areas controlled by ISIS: Convert to Islam, pay an extortionate   (jizya) or face execution. The Barnabas Fund, a charity group, has joined other NGOs and various United Nations members in accusing ISIS of killing thousands of Christians, including by crucifixion and beheadings, Breitbart News reported, adding that ISIS has also kidnapped and displaced thousands more from their ancient Christian communities in Iraq and Syria.