Will Ferrell came under intense fire on social media Thursday after Variety reported that the actor has been tapped to star as President Reagan in a comedy film that spoofs the 40th president’s Alzheimer’s disease. [Michael Reagan, President Reagan’s eldest son, was among the first to blast Ferrell’s role in the film, Reagan, in a series of fiery tweets:  Alheimers is not a comedy it robs you then it kills you @THR,  —   Michael Reagan (@ReaganWorld) April 28, 2016,  #Alzheimers is not a comedy to the 5 million people who are suffering with the decease, it first robs you of your mind and then it kills you,  —   Michael Reagan (@ReaganWorld) April 29, 2016,  “The story begins at the start of the  ’s second term when he falls into dementia and an ambitious intern is tasked with convincing the commander in chief that he is an actor playing the president in a movie,” Variety reported. Even the comments section under Variety’s article reflected the disdain for Ferrell’s decision to portray an Alzheimer’  Ronald Reagan. “I watched two loved ones suffer and ultimately die from Alzheimer’s. If Ferrel [sic] makes this movie I’ll never forgive him,” one commenter said. “Alzheimer’s is not funny. I cared for my father as he wasted away for 10 years. Its [sic] soul crushing for those who love them,  how dare you ridicule the Reagan children  all of us who have lived this nightmare,” said another. Indeed, the furor for Will Ferrell was most palpable on Twitter: Dementia is shits and giggles now, isn’t it? Unreal  …    https:  .   —   Avi (@mrAvinash) April 27, 2016,  Alzheimer ’s is by no means funny. It kills treasured memories and robs you of your very existence.# WillFerrell,  —   Candace Browning (@candybrowning91) April 28, 2016,    If you think mocking President Reagan’s battle with dementia by way of a comedy movie is insensitive to people afflicted by that illness,  —   John Miller (@JVM225) April 28, 2016,  This movie mocks Reagan’s fight with alzheimers. All involved should be ashamed.  https:  .   —   Sarah Connor (@SConnorTX) April 28, 2016,  There is nothing funny about Dementia and Alzheimer’s. That’s disgusting Will Ferrell.  https:  .   —   Biz Cliz  —   Syc (@Just_Syc) April 29, 2016,  #WillFerrell is a funny guy, but if true, this ”movie” is in poor taste. #Alzheimers is not a joke, it kills. SMH https:  .   —   ULTM8SerenaWilliamsf (@ultm8swfans) April 29, 2016,  alzheimer’s is not a comedy. shame on will ferrell.  —   katherine jane (@katherinejross) April 29, 2016,  Disgusting that anyone would find Alzheimer’s to be comedic material. https:  .   —   Peter A. Finocchio (@PeterAFinocchio) April 29, 2016,  Very sad that Will Ferrell apparently finds himself so hard up for work. Disrespectful and not at all funny.  —   Mike Elmendorf (@MikeElmendorf) April 29, 2016,  Ronald Wilson Reagan served as President of the United States from 1981 to 1989, and was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease in 1994. He died on June 5th, 2004, after having suffered from the debilitating disease for nearly a decade. Alzheimer’s disease slowly destroys brain functions, including memory, balance, and coordination, and typically targets those 65 years of age and older. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than five million Americans suffer from the incurable disease. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson.