Erik Prince, former CEO of private security firm Blackwater who served as a Navy SEAL and CIA asset, told Breitbart News Sunday’s Stephen K. Bannon that to win the war against radical Islamic terrorism, the United States must deny entry to people who pose a threat to America’s Christian way of life. [He said the United States could defeat the jihadi enemy by denying them sanctuary, money, and access to American territory.  “We have no obligation as a country to allow people in that are an inherent threat or could be an inherent threat to our way of life  —   to our Western   civilization,” declared Prince, now the managing director of the private equity firm Frontier Resource Group. “It is open to all  —   freedom of religion, but not if they’re coming here to attack us. ” He also warned: Islamic radicalism, which is trying to affect us anywhere and everywhere it’s allowed to operate, is going to continue to come for us. Unfortunately, this is not a   or   war. This is more like a   …     30 to   war. So we have to plan for that, budget for it, figure how to truly fight and win the long war as cheaply and as cost effectively as possible. Prince spoke in the wake of the June 12 terrorist attack by Omar Mateen at a gay nightclub in Orlando, FL, which left at least 50 people dead and 53 others wounded. Mateen, a    U. S. citizen of Afghan descent, pledged allegiance to the Islamic State ( ) which has claimed responsibility for the massacre, described by authorities as the deadliest mass shooting in the United States and the nation’s worst terror attack since  . Prince questioned whether U. S. senior military leadership has what it takes to win the war against Islamic extremists, saying the leaders “have become as bureaucratic as the rest of the federal government” and “have put process and bureaucracy over success. ” “They have allowed lawyers to become almost like   …     a political officer [in the military] was during the Soviet Union  —   that person that accompanied the commander into the field   everything to make sure it adhered to party policy,” proclaimed Prince. He said that while “the rank and file of the military has plenty of ability and desire to win,” senior military leaders “have forgotten how to win. ” Breitbart News Sunday airs live weekly from 7 to 10 p. m. Eastern on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125.   