The founder of the famous     groups in Michoacan, sent a letter from prison to Pope Francis I asking him to intercede with the Mexican government to help stop that country’s out of control cartel violence. The Pope has read the letter. [“We the people from Michoacan are tired of having to collect black bags with the remains of our loved ones and friends,” Dr. Jose Manuel Mireles wrote from his cell in a Mexican prison where he has been held for almost two years on weapons charges. The letter was originally published by Mexico’s SinEmbargo. Mx.   “Holy Father, Lord’s Messenger, the   members appeal to your mercy to that you may intercede for us before the government to ask for clemency, amnesty or true justice that is prompt, impartial and expeditious so that we may be granted freedom. ” Mireles wrote. “I guarantee that we will become disciplined for the peace and dignity of the nation. Pope Francis has been visiting various parts of Mexico where he has been denouncing some of the inequalities and human rights abuses that the country suffers. As previously reported by Breitbart News,  Mireles founded a self defense group the state of Michoacan where local villagers took up arms and were able to successfully fight off one of the most violent cartels known as the Knights Templar. According to Mireles, while his group was active they had been able to suppress kidnappings, extortions, rapes and other crimes that cartel members brought down on innocent villagers. At the time the villagers claimed that the Mexican government had forgotten about them and left them at the mercy of cartels.  As previously reported by Breitbart Texas, rather than welcome the help form the community groups, Mexican authorities were quick to jail Mireles and various other members of self defense groups on weapons charges, even though the weapons they used were not even close to what the drug cartels are able to use with impunity in Mexico.  In his letter to the Pope, Mireles talked about the lack of interest displayed by Mexican authorities when dealing with victims of cartel violence. According to Mireles, his area has seen 500 entire families end up at a cemetery, 2800 families have fled from Mexico, while 380 self defense group members sit in a jail cell.  Mireles also quotes the Apatzingan Diocese which has reported 2, 500 widows and 4, 900 orphans in that region.  Mireles also asked the Pope to help his jailed comrades who took up arms against the cartels since Mexican courts have kept their cases in limbo. If they were to fine lawyers and judges who delay the cases they cases would move a lot faster.  “Holy Father, Lord’s Messenger, the   members appeal to your mercy to that you may intercede for us before the government to ask for clemency, amnesty or true justice that is prompt, impartial and expeditious so that we may be granted freedom. ” Mireles wrote. “I guarantee that we will become disciplined for the peace and dignity of the nation.  Ildefonso Ortiz is an award winning journalist with Breitbart Texas you can follow him on Twitter and on Facebook.