One of the leading purveyors of climate change panic has described the Presidential election of Donald J. Trump as a “global disaster,” adding that if were to meet Trump he would tell him: “Kill yourself immediately. ”[Evolutionary biologist John Wiens of the University of Arizona claims that the earth is racing toward “global extinction” similar to the era of the dinosaurs, as half the world’s species are allegedly failing to cope with global warming.  Wiens said that while we may not quite be at the level of “global extinction of entire species that have already happened,” we are unfortunately “on track for that to happen. ” “If we don’t do anything,” Wiens warned, “it seems like that’s going to happen in the next 50 to 100 years. ” Wiens said that the Trump election bodes badly for the future of the planet, exacerbated by his appointment of climate change skeptic Scott Pruitt as head of the EPA and his determination to pull out of the Paris Climate Change Accord (COP21). “The EPA in this country, they are the ones supposed to be protecting the environment,” he said. Wiens suggested the U. K. should invade the U. S. or the U. S. should swap leaders with Canada, with Justin Trudeau taking over in the White House. Wiens published an article this week in the journal PLOS Biology, claiming that   “local extinctions” are already widespread among plant and animal species. He concluded that “species cannot change fast enough to keep up with a small change in climate. ” “In almost half the species looked at, there have been local extinctions already,” he said. Meanwhile, last month a group of scientists discovered to their surprise that the world’s plants have somehow increased their capacity to assimilate carbon, resulting in a decline in the percentage of   CO2 remaining in the atmosphere. Researchers at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory found that despite the increased human emissions of greenhouse gases, between 2002 and 2014, plants were somehow able to absorb more carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere than in previous decades. Undaunted, Wiens says that humanity is on the verge of disaster, and Americans are particularly to blame. People are going to die, Wiens prophesied, “and it’s going to be the fault of our country and other big polluters. ” Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter  Follow @tdwilliamsrome