If you work in Washington, D. C. you know that political flacks like saying the   all of the time, regardless whether they are male and female. [But they usually avoid using the word on the record or on social media. Not Hillary Clinton’s latest hire Jess McIntosh, the new director of communications outreach for the campaign.  The former vice president of communications for EMILY’s List and fearless defender of abortion and Planned Parenthood frequently used the word on social media as part of her online communications strategy. “Fucked up fucking world, guys. Fuck,” she wrote on July 13, 2013. Fucked up fucking world, guys. Fuck.  —   jess mcintosh (@jess_mc) July 14, 2013,  In 2012, she admitted that she frequently used the word, but hinted that she would   it after Obama’s  . “For the record, I’ve been saying fuck since Reagan,” she wrote in November, “And when this election is over, I will never say fuck again. For the record, I’ve been saying fuck since Reagan.  —   jess mcintosh (@jess_mc) November 5, 2012,  @jamisonfoser and when this election is over, I will never say fuck again.  —   jess mcintosh (@jess_mc) November 5, 2012,  But that doesn’t appear to have worked out, as Macintosh used the word to describe her movement around Washington D. C. and other places in the country in 2013. “Getting the fuck outta town,” she wrote on May 25, 2013. Getting the fuck outta town.  —   jess mcintosh (@jess_mc) May 25, 2013,  “Aw fuck I’m back,” she wrote in November 2012. Aw fuck I’m back.  —   jess mcintosh (@jess_mc) November 21, 2012,  “I’m gonna sashay in DC too. Fuck it,” she continued. I’m gonna sashay in DC too. Fuck it.  —   jess mcintosh (@jess_mc) November 21, 2012,  During a trip to New York City, she took to Twitter to react to a woman she saw on the street. “Little old woman, cross legged on the sidewalk, flipping off everyone walking by,” she wrote. “Nice to be home, New York, fuck you too. ” Little old woman, cross legged on the sidewalk, flipping off everyone walking by. Nice to be home, New York, fuck you too.  —   jess mcintosh (@jess_mc) June 11, 2011,  McIntosh also uses the word to describe her eating habits. “Ate the fuck out of that bagel, you guys. ” Ate the fuck out of that bagel, you guys.  —   jess mcintosh (@jess_mc) May 14, 2013,  “I ate the fuck out of that puffer fish. It’s been real, y’all,” she wrote, in October 2012 posting a link to a photo on Instagram that no longer exists. I ate the fuck out of that puffer fish. It’s been real, y’all.  ”https:  .   ”>October 14, 2012,  One time she used the word to react to what she thought was a particularly good moment from President Obama. “Fuck yeah, Mr. President,” she wrote, using the hashtag #cspan2012, On her way to a dinner, she used the word to react to someone praising her looks. “Nothing like being told my ass is proof of god on the way to a women’s empowerment diner,” she wrote in 2014. “Fuck everything. ” Nothing like being told my ass is proof of god on the way to a women’s empowerment diner. Fuck everything.  —   jess mcintosh (@jess_mc) October 6, 2014,  She also employed the word to express her discouragement after reading an article about how women executives suffered for promoting other women and people of color. “Women execs and execs of color take a hit when they promote women and ppl of color,” she wrote. “In other news, fuck everything. ” Women execs and execs of color take a hit when they promote women and ppl of color. In other news, fuck everything. ”https:  .   ”>July 21, 2014,  EMILYs List VP @jess_mc leaves for Clinton campaign comms. ”I get to help put to shame a man who has built his career off degrading women.”  —   Todd Zwillich (@toddzwillich) May 23, 2016, 