U. S. Border Patrol Agents working on the Rio Grande River were assaulted by Mexicans throwing rocks. [While most Americans were having Thanksgiving Dinner with their families, the Border Patrol agents were at work patrolling the Rio Grande River border with Mexico in South Texas. As the agents moved along the river near Hidalgo, Texas, Mexican nationals on the Mexico side of the river began throwing rocks at the agents, according to information obtained by Breitbart Texas from U. S. Customa and Border Protection officials.  Three subjects on the Mexican side of the river began throwing rocks as the agents’ boat came within range. Fortunately, no one was injured and no damage was done to the boat. The agents quickly moved out of range and no force was used by the agents against the Mexican nationals. The three individuals quickly fled the scene. The following day, a Border Patrol agent and a Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) trooper were shot near the border town of Fronton, Texas. The DPS trooper was shot in the leg and was transported by helicopter to a hospital in McAllen, Breitbart Texas reported. The wound was   threatening and he is expected to fully recover. The Border Patrol agent was shot in the chest, but his   ballistic gear protected him and saved his life. DPS Lt. Johnny Hernandez told the Associated Press the incident occurred about 1 p. m. on Friday. The trooper and the agent were on a foot patrol in Star County. He said it was not clear if the gunfight on the Mexican side involved Tamaulipas State Police or the Mexican Military. At this time, it is not known if the law enforcement officers were struck by stray bullets from a cartel gun battle or if they were the target of the attack. It appears there may have been a gun battle underway between gunmen and Mexican law enforcement officials. The incident remains under investigation. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.