Chicago Blackhawks winger Patrick Kane has become the first   player to win the Art Ross Trophy for the NHL’s top scorer. [“It is an honor being the first American to win the scoring title as there have been so many great hockey players from the United States in the NHL,” said Kane. “I take a lot of pride in that, but I also take a lot of pride in doing it with the Chicago Blackhawks. I owe a lot to my teammates, coaches and the organization as I couldn’t have done this without them. This has been a special season, but we still have a lot to accomplish as a team and I look forward to another long run in the Stanley Cup Playoffs. ”  Kane scored 106 points this season with 46 goals and 60 assists. “What a tremendous season for Patrick,” boasted Blackhawks GM Stan Bowman. “He started the season very strong and carried our team with his dominant play early allowing our team to stabilize and come together as a group throughout the season. Patrick kept pushing the pace all year long and led not only our team but the entire league which demonstrates how impressive his performance was from day one until Game 82. ” Kane also became the first Blackhawks player to score over 100 points since Jeremy Roenick achieved the feat in  . He went on a   point streak between October 17 to December 13, which broke Bobby Hull’s franchise record of 21 games. It is also the longest streak for an American born player. Kane enjoyed a stellar season despite a tumultuous   when a woman accused the star of rape in his hometown. In November, Erie Country Attorney Frank Sedita III closed the rape investigation against Kane. Sedita scheduled a grand jury in September, “but abruptly canceled it, raising questions about whether he was committed to bringing charges. ” He told the media the case contained “significant material inconsistencies” between the alleged victim and witnesses. He also said officials could not find evidence of penetration, “an element required under New York law to bring a rape charge. ” In March, the NHL closed their investigation against Kane.