CIUDAD VICTORIA, Tamaulipas  —   The raging Los Zetas civil war between two factions of the drug cartel for control over this city has escalated to new levels of gore. Enforcers for one of the factions dismembered a rival member, bagging him in bed sheets and dumping the remains at a gas station. [Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas and Coahuila to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities.  The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “M. A. Navarro” from Ciudad Victoria.  Police received an anonymous call from either a customer or an employee at the local gas station in the rural area known as El Olivo were the ones that made the gory discovery. Authorities rushed to the scene to confirm the find and recovered the body.  The victim was described by authorities as a man between 30 to 35 years of age. He had been completely dismembered. Next to the body, authorities recovered a   left behind by the suspected murderers. “This goes against all of the authorities and military move the hell away because I am coming after whomever gets in my way or helps the (expletive) of the CDN ATTE Z7, Z6, and also Z12 Rey and Coma Pitalua,” the note read.  As previously reported by Breitbart Texas, two factions of Los Zetas have been fighting for control of this city for the past four months. In recent weeks the violence has intensified with the number of executions, murders, kidnappings, drive by shootings and other crimes causing panic among the residents of Ciudad Victoria.  One faction of Los Zetas has taken the name Cartel Del Noreste (CDN) or Northeastern Cartel, while the other one has taken the name Old School Zetas or Grupo Bravo.  The names of the Los Zetas signing the   are the call signs of four of the founding members of the criminal group. Los Zetas were originally started in the late 1990’s as a group of Mexican Military Special Forces deserters turned bodyguards and enforcers for the Gulf Cartel. The Zetas that allegedly signed the message are: The involvement of the Los Zeta bosses named in the banner remains unclear. Law enforcement sources point to the usage of the names possibly being used to cause fear among their rivals since Rejon Aguilar is currently in custody of the U. S. government after pleading guilty to drug charges.  Reyes Enriques is out of prison after spending 8 years in Puente Grande maximum security prison on drug charges.  The fate of the other two remains unknown.  