The Hillary Clinton campaign employs a former Goldman Sachs vice president who joined the campaign directly from Goldman. [As Clinton fights to quell concerns about her close relationship with the New York City investment   a look at her payroll reveals that Clinton is paying a former top Goldman executive.  Dan Beksha began working as an associate at Goldman Sachs in 2011 after some time at Morgan Stanley. He served as a vice president for Cross Asset Sales for Goldman Sachs between January 2015 and April 2015. In April 2015, Beksha joined “The Budget Team” on Hillary for America and has served in that role ever since. Beksha made $13, 469. 21 per quarter from the Clinton campaign, according to the campaign’s July 2015 quarterly report. By the campaign’s October Quarterly filing, Beksha was making $14, 411 per quarter from the Clinton campaign. Beksha’s most recent   touted the Clinton campaign’s online fundraising efforts. Beksha’s bio from his 2013 fellowship with the New Leaders Council detailed his years of Democratic Party activism. Dan Beksha currently works in the Securities Division of Goldman Sachs in Cross Asset Sales. He focuses on macroeconomic and geopolitical events and their implications across asset classes. Dan has been an active member of the Manhattan Young Democrats since 2009 and currently serves as the Vice President. In this role he has been an active player in both local and national politics at the ground level leading issue oriented campaigns and field initiatives. In the fall of 2012 he helped organize a GOTV trip to Ohio for a group of 200 New Yorkers. He graduated from The University of Chicago with a degree in Economics focusing on macroeconomics and public finance. Dan was born and raised in Massachusetts and moved to New York City after graduation from college. Hillary Clinton is under fire for refusing to release transcripts of her paid speeches to Wall Street firms including Goldman Sachs. At a town hall in Columbia, South Carolina, Clinton doubled down on her refusal to release the transcripts. “Sure if everybody does it and that includes the Republicans because we know they have given a bunch of speeches. But, look, what is this about?” Clinton complained. “Why is there one standard for me and not for everybody else?” Clinton said. As Breitbart News has reported,   of State Hillary Clinton’s    successfully helped his buddy at Goldman Sachs get his   request to Secretary Clinton. The Clinton campaign did not immediately return a request for comment.