Asked if he thought the media took religious issues seriously during his time running for the GOP nomination, former Republican presidential candidate Dr. Ben Carson told Breitbart News Daily host Stephen K. Bannon on Breitbart News Daily Friday morning they didn’t  —   and many would be happy to see Christianity vanish off the face of the Earth. [“They certainly did not take it seriously, and they don’t take it seriously, now, I don’t believe, because they’re not really concerned about that,” Carson said. “If Christianity disappeared, many of them would be just fine with that, because they don’t believe that there is necessarily something as right or as wrong. Everything is relative to them. ”  “The Bible, they believe, is largely fantasy  —   and the whole concept of God,” added Carson, pointing out that he felt mocked by the media several times for his belief in God. Carson said he felt we undermine the Constitution when America goes the secular route. Asked if he thought there was a global war against Christians going on today, Carson said yes. “Christians are caught between secularism, which is on the rise and doesn’t like to be reminded of its negative aspects, and between Islamic Jihadists, who want to dominate the religious scene,” he said. “As Christians,” continued Carson, “we’re caught between a rock and a hard place and have to recognize, first of all, that we are under attack and then have to come up with strategies for fighting back. ” Faulting the U. S. government’s efforts, Carson said: “They for the most part won’t even acknowledge what’s going on with the Christians and the Yazidis and all the various people around the world. It’s like it doesn’t exist. They don’t seem to recognize that these are not isolated incidents that won’t find their way into our culture, as well. ” Since leaving the presidential race, carson has become National Honorary Chairman of MyFaithVotes. com  —   a   effort “to motivate Jesus’ followers to vote. ” Breitbart News Daily airs weekdays from 6AM to 9AM EST on Sirius XM Patriot 125. LISTEN:  