Looking for any reason to praise Hillary Clinton’s prosaic acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention, progressives took delight in the Never Trump conservatives on Twitter who heaped praise on Clinton’s patriotic happy talk in order to bash Donald Trump’s   speech the week before. [Here are some of the tweets highlighted by Katherine Krueger at the   Talking Points Memo:  John Podhoretz, son of Norman: Take about five paragraphs out of that Obama speech and it could have been a Reagan speech. Trust me. I know.  —   John Podhoretz (@jpodhoretz) July 28, 2016,  Former Cruz spokeswoman and National Enquirer’s “alleged mistress number two”: I am sure hearing a lot more about God and faith at the DNC than the RNC.  —   Amanda Carpenter (@amandacarpenter) July 28, 2016,  Michelle Fields’ boyfriend: Now an immigrant medal of honor winner? If the goal is to reach independents and conservatives uneasy   Trump, well done Democrats,  —   Jamie Weinstein (@Jamie_Weinstein) July 29, 2016,  Never Trump leader Erick Erickson: For Republicans who are not social conservatives, I have to imagine last night and tonight at the DNC are having an impact on them.  —   Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) July 29, 2016,  Never Trump Iowa talk show host Steve Deace: So most of conservative media and the GOP spent the week rooting for Russia, and now the Democrats get to rally around the flag.  Dreadful.  —   Steve Deace (@SteveDeaceShow) July 29, 2016,  Never Trump Wisconsin talk show host Charlie Sykes: Snark aside: GOP needs to understand what is happening to them tonight  …      —   Charlie Sykes (@SykesCharlie) July 29, 2016,  Do you know how old I am? Old enough to remember when speeches like this would’ve been given at GOP convention  …     Not Dem one. Brutal.  —   Charlie Sykes (@SykesCharlie) July 29, 2016,  Dick Cheney’s press secretary: How can it be that I am standing at my kitchen counter sobbing because of the messages being driven at the DNC?   Where has the GOP gone?  —   Rich Galen (@richgalen) July 29, 2016,  Conservative “strategist” Matt Mackowiak: This Democratic convention has been an unmitigated disaster for the GOP. Very well produced. Unifying. Patriotic. Bravo. #DNCinPHL,  —   Matt Mackowiak (@MattMackowiak) July 29, 2016,  Commentary editor Noah Rothman: Republicans could have stopped all this.  —   Noah Rothman (@NoahCRothman) July 29, 2016,  Fox News’ Greg Gutfeld: if repubs had championed their principles with specifics rather than embrace autocracy  —   they wouldn’t have yielded this turf to dems.  —   GregGutfeld (@greggutfeld) July 29, 2016,  National Review’s Jonah Goldberg: Why this convention is better: It’s about loving America. GOP convention was about loving Trump. If you didn’t love Trump, it offered nada.  —   Jonah Goldberg (@JonahNRO) July 29, 2016, 