  Donald Trump says Ronna Romney McDaniel will be the next leader of the Republican National Committee, succeeding Reince Priebus. [He’s joining the Trump administration as White House chief of staff.  “I’m excited to have a highly effective leader in Ronna McDaniel as RNC Deputy Chair and I look forward to her serving as the Party’s Chairman in 2017,” the incoming president says. McDaniel is the chairwoman of the Michigan Republican Party and a niece of former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, the GOP’s 2012 presidential nominee. Her father Scott Romney is the governor’s brother. “Ronna has been extremely loyal to our movement and her efforts were critical to our tremendous victory in Michigan, and I know she will bring the same passion to the Republican National Committee. ” Trump won Michigan’s 16 electoral votes with 47. 6 percent of the vote to 47. 3 percent for his Democratic rival Hillary R. Clinton. Congratulations to the next deputy chair of the Republican National Committee, Ronna McDaniel! pic. twitter.   —   College Republicans (@CRNC) December 14, 2016,  The man McDaniel is replacing said her role in the Michigan win made her an easy choice. “Ronna has been a committed leader in our Party for years, and her leadership this cycle in helping   Trump turn Michigan red for the first time since 1988 makes her an exceptional choice to serve as Deputy Chair,” Priebus said. “Her ability to drive support for our mission of electing Republicans up and down the ballot gives me full confidence that she will be able to continue building on the RNC’s success and organizational strength as we head into important elections in 2017 and 2018,” he said. In addition to the McDaniel announcement, Trump said the new deputy is going to be Bob Paduchik, the state campaign director in Ohio. Paduchik joined the Trump campaign after working for his rival former Florida governor John E. “Jeb” Bush, and for President George W. Bush in 2000 and 2004. From 2011 through 2015, Paduchik worked in a variety of roles at the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, a trade association representing the   electricity industry. From October 2001 to January 2003, Bob served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary at the U. S. Department of Energy. “Bob Paduchik is the right choice to serve as RNC Deputy ” said the  . “In addition to being a key leader in helping us win big in Ohio, I am confident he is going to work very hard to continue the excellent work the RNC has done of building the Republican Party up to a record level of strength,” Trump said. Trump won Ohio’s 18 electoral votes with 52 percent of the vote to Clinton’s 44 percent. Priebus said Paduchik’s track record of success bodes well for his leadership at the RNC. “Bob has a proven ability to be a team player, knows how to achieve results at the ballot box, and has a keen focus on furthering the RNC’s commitment to winning,” he said. We are proud to have him take on a new leadership role where he can help implement   Trump’s and our Republican majority’s vision for change. ”   Donald Trump’s Chief Strategist Stephen Bannon praised the elevation of McDaniel and Paduchik to new roles. Bannon, who was the CEO of the Trump presidential campaign and is slated to join the new administration as the president’s senior strategist, joined Trump and Priebus in his praise for the McDaniel and Paduchik selections. “Ronna and Bob were completely committed to  ’s Trump’s success in this campaign, and they are going to keep up the enthusiasm for our America First agenda as they fulfill the RNC’s mission of helping our Republican candidates to victory at all levels,” said Bannon, who is on a leave of absence from his position as the executive chairman of Breitbart News.