Rapper Killer Mike defended Donald Trump against allegations leveled by Hilary Clinton’s presidential campaign that the GOP nominee urged Second Amendment proponents to harm Clinton during a speech he gave earlier this week. [“I’m very   Amendment. He’s  *t crazy, but I don’t think [Trump] would call for the assassination of another presidential candidate,” the rapper and staunch Bernie Sanders supporter told TMZ. “He was saying that [Second Amendment] vote could prevent her. ”  During his speech in Wilmington, North Carolina earlier this week, Trump said: “Hillary wants to abolish, essentially abolish, the Second Amendment. By the way, and if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don’t know. ” The Clinton campaign, and numerous news outlets, twisted Trump’s words to suggest that he was inciting violence against the former Secretary of State. Asked for this thoughts on Trump calling President Obama the “founder of ISIS,” the   rapper laughed and said Trump is simply repeating what he hears on Fox News. “But I do think our government has done a great job at destabilizing countries and creating enemies,” he added.  The outspoken rapper made headlines earlier this year when he came out as a vocal supporter of Bernie Sanders’s presidential bid, even stumping for the Vermont senator. In June, the Run the Jewels rapper said of Trump that “the Republican hate machine has been subtly feeding this monster. ” In his interview with TMZ, Killer Mike said voters failed to elect the one candidate, Sanders, who was against “growing war. ” “So we’re getting what we ask for. If you don’t want any war, you’ll be voting for (Green Party presidential candidate) Jill Stein,” he said. “If you want less government and war, you’ll be voting for (Libertarian Presidential candidate) Gary Johnson. ” Asked who he’s voting for in November, Killer Mike replied: “I have not decided yet  …    . definitely not [Trump] or [Clinton]. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson