NEW YORK  —   Babu Omowale, the national chairman for the People’s New Black Panther Party, is not excited about the candidates in this year’s presidential election, stating that neither Hillary Clinton nor Donald Trump represent the interests of  . [Omowale reserved most of his invective for Hillary Clinton, declaring she is “not the great champion of  ” before criticizing Bill Clinton’s criminal justice policies.  The New Black Panther Party leader also slammed President Obama on race relations, stating America’s first black president “has not done anything for the black community. ” Omowale was speaking on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” this reporter’s Sunday talk radio program broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and NewsTalk 990 AM in Philadelphia. Asked about his attitude toward Hillary Clinton, Omowale said: “Hillary Clinton is not the great champion of African Americans. If you look at your history when her husband was president in the ’90s, there were more African Americans to be locked up in this country than any other time because of some of the laws that he signed into law. Specifically, the drug laws of cocaine. “So if a black man has a couple grams of crack versus a white man having a couple of grams of powder cocaine, black men where receiving sentences three and four times longer than that of his white counterparts. So we look at these as unjustifiable laws that were implemented up under the Clinton regime. “So no. Hillary Clinton would not be a representative of the black community. Nor would Donald Trump be a representative of the black community. As far as black people are concerned, we really do not have a representative in this 2016 election year. ” I asked Omowale whether he was disappointed at Obama’s tenure in office when it comes to race relations. “It’s not so much that I am disappointed in Obama because Obama never really had any real power anyway,” Omowale replied. “Obama was elected to the public office basically as a puppet, okay  …    ” He continued: “It’s not Obama being in the White House and what he has done. It’s what society has done around the country after Obama became elected. You see every racist from around the country stuck their head up out of the cubby hole. “And you’re asking me, has Obama done enough for the black community? We are saying that Obama has not done anything for the black community. The only thing that we see that Obama has done is provide people with gay rights and issues of that nature. But as far as black people as a whole, he has not done one damn thing. Obama is going to be known as the gay rights president. That’s it. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.