Donald Trump Jr. tells firearm suppressor manufacturer Silencer Co. that the Second Amendment is “a basic right of Americans” that has to be defended. [The younger Trump says, “The Second Amendment is not just a hobby that I do every weekend, it’s a lifestyle. ”  Trump Jr. stressed that his father —  Donald J. Trump —  holds the same high view of the Second Amendment. He noted that the importance of the Second Amendment is evidenced by the fact that “it’s the thing that our Founding Fathers thought of right after free speech and religion. ” But he warned that Hillary Clinton wishes to lay waste to the protections on our rights to keep and bear arms. He said: When I see our opponent, Hillary Clinton in this case, talking about the Supreme Court  …    getting the Heller decision wrong —  for those of you who don’t know, the Supreme Court said you have a right, in a   decision, not a nine to nothing decision but a   decision, they said you have right to keep a firearm in your home. The decision was not about concealed carry, not about suppression, certainly not about Class III, [yet] she said the Supreme Court got that wrong. Donald Jr. ’s point was clear —  Clinton’s opposition to Heller proves she is rejecting our Second Amendment rights at their most basic level. He added: “That’s scary to me as an American because, what’s next? Legislation for the sake of legislation? Just like government is bureaucracy for the sake of bureaucracy at this point. Just more rules and more government in your  …    daily life. ” Trump Jr. described his and his father’s approach as completely opposite of Clinton’s —  not only regarding the Supreme Court, where Trump wants to nominate justices to uphold the Second Amendment instead of tear it down —  but also in    life, where Donald Jr. and his father want to leave citizens alone to exercise their rights while “[going] after the people who are actually committing crimes. ” AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.