Donald Trump is preparing to release his first   on Monday, starting in Iowa, and the Washington Post is calling it “provocative. ”[Trump showed the   to a Washington Post reporter, who promptly amped up the adjectives. The   says the Post, is:  titled “Great Again,” makes clear that Trump’s closing pitch to voters will be as visceral and arresting as the one he delivers at raucous rallies. It is a full embrace of the most incendiary of his proposals, as opposed to the more biographical spots that some other candidates favor  …    . Trump said he reviewed several proposals for his first television ad but settled on the dark backdrop of “Great Again” because he wanted to showcase what makes him stand apart from the competition: bucking political correctness and speaking in vivid, stark terms about threats to national security  …     “It’s about immigration and safety, and they play hand in hand,” he said. “If you look at every poll, I’m the leader on the economy, but it’s immigration and ISIS, too. I’m bringing them all together. ” According to the Post’s article, Donald Trump’s ad begins with a shot of President Obama and Hillary Clinton. Then comes a U. S. battleship launching a   strike. From there it moves swiftly through an explosive montage: The suspects in the recent California terrorist attack. Shadowy figures racing across the U. S.  border. Islamic State militants. The narrator, a   man, speaks ominously: “That’s why he’s calling for a temporary shutdown of Muslims entering the United States, until we can figure out what’s going on. He’ll quickly cut the head off ISIS and take their oil. And he’ll stop illegal immigration by building a wall on our southern border that Mexico will pay for. ” The spot closes with the image of Trump thundering at one of his rallies, “We will make America great again!” Trump said he’ll spend at least $2 million a week on broadcasting six to eight different  . He also said he’ll pay for the broadcasts using his own wealth, not money from donors.