Eighteen women and girls have filed a federal lawsuit alleging that a Michigan doctor sexually assaulted them and that U. S. A. Gymnastics and other organizations that employed him failed to address their concerns and prevent further abuse, some of it dating back to the late 1990s. In the civil suit filed against Dr. Lawrence Nassar on Tuesday in Federal District Court in western Michigan, the plaintiffs are seeking relief for injuries related to sexual assault, nonconsensual touching, abuse and molestation. They say the abuse occurred while they were participating in gymnastics, swimming, figure skating, track and field, field hockey, basketball and soccer. Most of the plaintiffs were minors when the abuse occurred, according to the suit, which alleges that Dr. Nassar “sexually assaulted, abused and molested” the athletes, including by “digital vaginal and anal penetration. ” The lawsuit is the latest legal action against Dr. Nassar. In November, he was charged in Ingham County, Mich. with   sexual conduct with a person under 13, and in December, he was indicted in federal court in Grand Rapids, Mich. on child pornography charges. Matthew R. Newburg, Dr. Nassar’s lawyer in those state and federal criminal cases, said by email on Wednesday that his client has pleaded not guilty in those cases. “We are still receiving discovery and continue to review the reports as we receive them,” he said. Stephen Drew, a lawyer for the plaintiffs in the new civil case, said on Wednesday that some of the 18 women had raised red flags as far back as 2000. The suit also names as defendants the places where he had worked or had treated athletes: U. S. A. Gymnastics, Michigan State University and Gedderts’ Twistars Gymnastics Club U. S. A. in Michigan. The plaintiffs said that Dr. Nassar had been recommended to them as a “renowned orthopedic sports medicine physician” while working at the university from about 1996 to 2016, and for the United States gymnastics team from 1986 to 2015. He also provided medical care at Twistars, which has locations in Dimondale, Mich. and DeWitt, Mich. The lawsuit alleges that some of the plaintiffs had complained about being abused while being examined in a room alone with Dr. Nassar, or that he had positioned himself in such a way as to block the view of parents or chaperones. Mr. Drew said that some of the women and girls had not come forward sooner because they thought they would not be believed. “They need this addressed they have been holding this in for years,” he said, adding that the impact on the plaintiffs has been “traumatic. ” Adam C. Sturdivant, another lawyer, said that two or three more people were expected to join the civil lawsuit within a week. Mr. Newburg said that Dr. Nassar does not yet have a lawyer for that case. The lawsuit alleged that the three organizations had failed to properly supervise Dr. Nassar, were negligent in retaining him and did not address concerns from the athletes and their parents. A statement from U. S. A. Gymnastics on Wednesday did not directly address the latest lawsuit, saying that it was pending litigation. But the organization, the sport’s national governing body, said it found the “allegations against Dr. Nassar very disturbing. ” “When we first learned of athlete concerns regarding Dr. Nassar in the summer of 2015, we immediately notified the F. B. I. and relieved him of any further assignments,” the statement said. “U. S. A. Gymnastics has fully cooperated with the F. B. I. in its investigation. We find it appalling that anyone would exploit a young athlete or child in this manner, and we are grateful to the athletes who have come forward. ” The reports of sexual abuse in the sport cast a shadow on the gymnastics federation just as the U. S. Olympics team, which brought home 12 medals from the 2016 Games, was preparing for a   market push. Jason Cody, a spokesman for Michigan State University said on Wednesday he could not comment on the pending litigation but the university was “deeply disturbed” by the criminal charges. He said in an emailed statement that the university had started an internal review and had found no evidence of any complaints about Dr. Nassar before Aug. 29, 2016, other than one in 2014 that was investigated. But, he added: “The criminal investigation into Larry Nassar is a top priority for M. S. U. Police. ” John Geddert, a former Olympic coach and the owner of Twistars gymnastics school, did not return telephone messages left at the center’s two Michigan locations on Wednesday. The lawsuit said Dr. Nassar had been recommended to athletes there. The suit said a parent of a gymnast in 1997 had complained to Mr. Geddert about the doctor, but that the concerns “went unaddressed. ” Mr. Drew, the lawyer, said some of the plaintiffs in Tuesday’s civil case were emboldened to come forward after an investigation published by The Indianapolis Star in August on allegations of sexual abuse by coaches of young athletes. The article included allegations that U. S. A. Gymnastics had routinely failed to notify law enforcement officials about sexual abuse claims. A second report by The Star, published in September, said two women had accused Dr. Nassar of sexually abusing them. One former gymnast, Rachael Denhollander, filed a police complaint that month against Dr. Nassar, who through his lawyer denied any wrongdoing. The other woman, a medalist on the 2000 United States Olympic team, filed a civil lawsuit against him and named U. S. A. Gymnastics as a defendant. Ms. Denhollander then joined the civil suit filed on Tuesday and is the only plaintiff to reveal her identity. That lawsuit said Dr. Nassar’s abuse of Ms. Denhollander occurred when she was a    gymnast in 2000 and was sent to his office at M. S. U. several times for wrist and back injuries. Dr. Nassar is currently jailed in Michigan and cannot be contacted, according to Mr. Newburg. In a news conference on Tuesday, Ms. Denhollander said, according to The Indianapolis Star: “The reality of sexual abuse is that a pedophile is only as prominent as people around him allow him to be. “I will do everything in my power to make sure Larry Nassar is prosecuted for his crimes and can never harm another child. ”