Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos will address students at the University of California, Los Angeles at 10pm EST this Tuesday. The event, hosted by the UCLA Bruin Republicans, can be watched below.[  The talk, titled “Feminism is Cancer,” will run from  :30 pm EST on Tuesday inUCLA Broad Hall 2160E. The event will consist of a short lecture, followed by a QA session. It will be free and open to the public, however, priority will be given to   persons. Yiannopoulos’ “Dangerous Faggot Tour” has caused pandemonium across college campuses in 2016. Most recently, a tour stop at DePaul University was derailed after Black Lives Matters protesters stormed the stage and threatened to assault Yiannopoulos. Despite the inaction from campus security, the University refused to apologize to Yiannopoulos or Breitbart for allowing their students to shut down the event. In response to the event, a DePaul sociology professor resigned, claiming administrators didn’t do enough to prevent Yiannopoulos’ lecture. In her resignation letter, she claimed that the belief “that universities are simply neutral platforms for ‘equal’ exchanges of ideas  …    is delusional. ” Tensions over Yiannopoulos’ upcoming stop at UCLA have been high, with many students take to the event page on Facebook to address their concerns. One student claimed that eager attendees have “insane and unfounded prejudices. ” Others claimed that Yiannopoulos is a “f*cking joke,” and a “cancer. ” The entire description of the Bruin Republican’s event can be read below. Please join Bruin Republicans at UCLA as we host Milo Yiannopolous of Breitbart. com and the Milo Yiannopolous Show for a lecture entitled, “Feminism is Cancer,” in which he will provide a critique of   feminism as it relates to topics including, but not limited to, free speech, the “gender wage gap,” “rape culture,” social justice, cultural authoritarianism, and the emerging phenomenon of safe space, microaggression, and trigger warning culture on college campuses. Our organization is committed to encouraging ideological diversity and promoting thoughtful debate on campus, so we welcome individuals of all political leanings to attend our event and actively participate in the interactive Question and Answer period following Milo’s lecture, in which guests will be provided the opportunity to address him directly and ask up to    questions. We believe that universities should be bastions of intellectual freedom purposed to expose students to challenging and opposing viewpoints, such that discourse may be promoted and students may participate in the free exchange of ideas. Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or on Facebook. You can email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com