Hillary Clinton’s actions as Secretary of State “opened the Pandora’s box of radical Islam” even while she “refuses to acknowledge the threat posed by Radical Islam,” Donald Trump charged in a broad rebuke of the presumptive Democratic nominee. [In a televised address from his hotel in New York’s SoHo neighborhood, Trump strongly criticized Clinton’s policies while she was Secretary of State, including her leadership role in advocating for the U. S.  NATO intervention in Libya.  Trump also spotlighted Clinton’s role in allegedly denying security requests to the fated U. S. Special Mission in Benghazi, her support for the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and for the rebels targeting Syrian President Bashar  ’s regime, and her involvement with the Iran nuclear deal. All of these polices, Trump stated, have made the world far more dangerous by fostering radical Islamic terrorist groups and other extremists.  And they cost “thousands” of American lives and “trillions of dollars,” Trump stated. “The Hillary Clinton foreign policy has cost America thousands of lives and trillions of dollars  —   and unleashed ISIS across the world,” he said. “No Secretary of State has been more wrong, more often, and in more places than Hillary Clinton. ” “Her decisions spread death, destruction and terrorism everywhere she touched. ” Regarding her positions on Egypt and radical Islam, Trump stated: She helped force out a friendly regime in Egypt and replace it with the radical Muslim Brotherhood. The Egyptian military has retaken control, but Clinton has opened the Pandora’s box of radical Islam. Perhaps the most terrifying thing about Hillary Clinton’s foreign policy is that she refuses to acknowledge the threat posed by Radical Islam. In fact, Hillary Clinton supports a radical 550% increase in Syrian refugees coming into the United States, and that’s an increase over President Obama’s already very high number. The billionaire targeted Clinton over the September 11, 2012 Benghazi terrorist attacks: Among the victims is our late Ambassador, Chris Stevens. He was left helpless to die as Hillary Clinton soundly slept in her bed  —   that’s right, when the phone rang at, 3 o’clock in the morning, she was sleeping. Ambassador Stevens and his staff in Libya made hundreds of requests for security. Hillary Clinton’s State Department refused them all. She started the war that put him in Libya, denied him the security he asked for, then left him there to die. To cover her tracks, Hillary lied about a video being the cause of his death. Here is what one of the victim’s mothers had to say: “I want the whole world to know it: she lied to my face, and you don’t want this person to be president. ” And Clinton’s foreign policy on Libya, Iran and Iraq resulted in the politician “almost  ” destabilizing the entire Middle East, Trump charged. In 2009, before Hillary Clinton was sworn in, it was a different world. Libya was cooperating. Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence. Syria was under control. Iran was being choked by sanctions. Egypt was governed by a friendly regime that honored its peace treaty with Israel. ISIS wasn’t even on the map. Fast forward to 2013: In just four years, Secretary Clinton managed to almost   destabilize the entire Middle East. Her invasion of Libya handed the country over to the ISIS barbarians. Thanks to Hillary Clinton, Iran is now the dominant Islamic power in the Middle East, and on the road to nuclear weapons. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.