As the nation prepares to ring in the New Year, President Barack Obama is preparing a colossal new executive action that could   work permits for a huge number of foreign   graduates every year, above and beyond the levels set by Congress. [This executive action, which directly bypasses Congressional lawmakers, is likely to reverberate across the presidential race, as GOP voters look to choose a nominee they believe will most effectively roll back the President’s   agenda.  And it will certainly raise new security concerns as it covers categories of immigration utilized by migrants from the Middle East and nearby regions.  President Barack Obama’s Department of Homeland Security plans to publish the proposed rule tomorrow, the last day of 2015. The   rule focuses primarily on giving   to foreign   who will compete against Americans for white collar jobs, despite the large number of American graduates now stuck in   positions and struggling to pay off college debts. The rule will also make each foreign graduate much cheaper for U. S. employers to hire than many U. S.  college grads. “Obama has gone the Full Monty to bust the immigration system,” says immigration lawyer John Miano. “What is going on is he is effectively giving Green Cards to people on   visas who are unable to get Green Cards due to the [annual] quotas  …     it could be over 100, 000. ” The new rules to aid foreign   are an extension of his earlier efforts to bypass popular laws against illegal immigration, said Miano, the   of a new book about the painful impact of the     programs, titled “Sold Out. ” “The objective here is to strip American workers of their protections from foreign labor embodied in the Green Card quotas” that are set by Congress, not the White House, Miano said. The annual award of Green Cards  —   and vital preliminary    —   is limited by quotas that mostly impact the many Indian and Chinese graduates who come to the United States as     or who first arrive as students and later start working in the United States via the Optional Practical Training and   programs. Roughly 650, 000 foreign graduates are working in the United States for roughly 5 years each under the   program. Roughly 120, 000 foreign graduates of U. S. colleges are working in the United States for two years each via the OPT program, often called the ‘   program.’ Without this new regulation, most of those foreign graduates will return home after several years, forcing companies to hire U. S. graduates in their place. The foreign graduates typically get   jobs that would otherwise go to new U. S. business graduates, designers, doctors, programmers, engineers and scientists.  Also, the foreign graduates are used to replace   American professionals once they seek     to help pay for mortgages and  . According to the pending regulation, “many of these changes are primarily aimed at improving the ability of U. S. employers to hire and retain [foreign]   workers who are beneficiaries of approved   immigrant visa petitions and are waiting to become lawful permanent residents (LPRs) while increasing the ability of such [foreign] workers to seek promotions, accept lateral positions with current employers, change employers, or pursue other employment options. ” The new policy also creates a large economic incentive for U. S. employers to hire foreign   instead of new American  . That’s because the policy will allow U. S. employers to hire foreign college graduates at very low salaries. The foreign graduates will gladly take those     jobs because the new policy allows them to get deferred payments from the federal government  —   valuable permanent   that are the first step on the golden pathway to Green Cards and citizenship. In contrast, employers can’t pay American graduates with this combination of   plus the federal promise of citizenship  —   because the Americans already have citizenship. That means employers must pay more money to hire American   than they would to hire foreign  . That puts a huge disadvantage on American graduates because they need higher salaries to pay off their expensive U. S. college debt. Miano slammed the new regulations, and said they reflect Obama’s preference for foreigners over Americans. “Notice that when foreign workers are going to lose their jobs, Obama has DHS make protecting their jobs the agency’s highest priority,” chiefly by minimizing enforcement of immigration laws, he told Breitbart News. But “when American workers lose their jobs to foreign workers, Obama does absolutely nothing,” he said. “We have a president with a very warped sense of priorities,” he added. The public can object to the new regulations, according to the DHS document. DATES: Written comments must be received on or before [Insert date 60 days from date of publication in the FEDERAL REGISTER]. ADDRESSES: You may submit comments, identified by DHS Docket No.    by one of the following methods: Federal eRulemaking Portal: You may submit comments to USCIS by visiting ”     ” href=”https:  . ”>@NeilMunroDC, 