WASHINGTON, D. C.  —   Florida U. S. Senator Marco Rubio blasted Hillary Clinton and in effect the FBI after it was announced Tuesday that Clinton will not be indicted over her private email server. [FBI director James Comey said that he found “evidence of potential violation” of classified information laws, but nevertheless he decided not to recommend an indictment against Clinton. Breitbart News has exhaustively reported on the case since August 2015, when this publication broke the news that Clinton shared “Top Secret” classified information on her private server.  Rubio is not a fan of Clinton’s conduct. He said: The FBI concluded what many Americans have known for quite some time, which is that Hillary Clinton’s conduct as Secretary of State and her mishandling of classified information was disgraceful and unbecoming of someone who aspires to the presidency. There is simply no excuse for Hillary Clinton’s decision to set up a   email system which left sensitive and classified national security information vulnerable to theft and exploitation by America’s enemies. Her actions were grossly negligent, damaged national security and put lives at risk. Breitbart News reported that Clinton shared the names of   intelligence sources overseas on her   private server. “Hillary Clinton’s actions have sent the worst message to the millions of   federal employees who hold security clearances and are expected to go to great lengths to secure sensitive government information and abide by the rules. They don’t take their oaths lightly, and we shouldn’t expect any less of their leaders,” Rubio stated. “Hillary Clinton’s reckless and thoughtless mishandling of classified information is not the end of the story, however. It’s only a matter of time before the next shoe drops and the nexus of corruption and controversy that has surrounded Hillary Clinton throughout her time in public office produces yet another scandal for the American people to endure. Given the consequential and challenging times in which we live, America simply cannot afford any more Clinton drama,” Rubio added.