The madman has actually done it.   Daddy  —   known to the rest of you as Republican presidential candidate Donald J Trump  —   has just outflanked Hillary Clinton on the Left and announced what can only be described as an   immigration policy. [I don’t mean progressive as it has come to be used, of course  —   nannying,    . I mean it’s a policy that could actually make things better for minorities.  Trump’s plan is to introduce a screening process for prospective immigrants to the U. S. testing their ideological commitment to western values like women’s rights, gay rights, and religious pluralism. It’s a brilliant plan. I’m especially inclined to say it’s brilliant because it may have been partly inspired by me. The test will apply to all immigrants, yet its obvious target is Muslims, who, as we know, get a bit bomby in the presence of gays, a bit rapey in the presence of women who wear skirts shorter than their ankles and generally a bit hostile and violent around anyone who doesn’t have their bum in the air five times a day. The media won’t portray this policy as progressive, of course  —   they’ll portray it as stupid, bigoted, and reactionary. The Washington Post, little more than a Hillary mouthpiece this election cycle, has already started, branding the proposal “crazy” and “outlandish. ” But it isn’t. Actually, it’s about the most   policy I’ve ever heard from a presidential hopeful. Trump has also promised to deport   in the U. S. His specific wording (“send them home”) again suggests that he’s targeting Islam. Go Daddy! ”Those who are guests in our country that are preaching hate will be asked to return home immediately.”  —   Trump pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) August 15, 2016,  It’s odd that leftists are already starting up the outrage machine. After all, isn’t this what progressivism is supposed to be about? All around the world, Muslims are oppressing women, murdering gays, and exterminating  . Progressives claim to want to protect the rights of gays, women and minorities, yet are silent on the greatest threat to them in the world today. Somehow, I doubt they would be outraged if Trump threatened to deport the Westboro Baptist Church. This, despite the fact that the Westboro Baptists haven’t killed anyone, whereas a Muslim, Omar Mateen, carried out the greatest act of homophobic violence in U. S. history. The Left, of course, think Orlando was a tragic incident of workplace violence, enabled by toxic masculinity and a lack of gun control. I’m comfortable with people who are uncomfortable with gays, as long as they don’t want to kill us, maim us or throw us off rooftops. (Permission for lesser violence is available upon application.) For leftists, the reverse appears to be true  —   they’re uncomfortable with people who are uncomfortable with gays, unless they want to kill us and maim us and throw us off rooftops. Thus, decline to bake a cake for some lesbians and you are a heinous bigot. Murder 50 fags and injure 50 more and you’re a tragic victim, probably reacting to islamophobia, whose dad will be invited to stand behind Hillary Clinton at a rally. There’s no diplomatic way to put it. In this historic announcement, Donald Trump has dramatically overtaken the chronically   Democratic Party on gay rights. I predict conservatives across the west will soon follow suit. The right is quickly realising that, thanks to the silence on Islam, it is they and not the left who are destined to safeguard women, gays, and minorities from the barbarians of the East. As the body counts  —   and rape counts  —   in Europe rack up, gays  —   and others on Islam’s    —   will realize that in a world of Muslim migration, conservative immigration policies are actually the most progressive. Meanwhile, the claims of   leftists to champion the rights of women and minorities will ring increasingly hollow. Voters are starting to take notice of all this. Throughout this election cycle, Trump has been attacked as a bigot and a reactionary on immigration. With this new plan, though, he has proven beyond doubt that he’s the only person running for President who can stick up for chicks and queers. Face facts, guys. It is the political Left that wants to flood America with violent homophobes and misogynists, not Trump.   with a   view of Muslim culture can believe otherwise. Perhaps this is what the #NeverTrump guys meant when they said Trump was a closet liberal. Follow Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) on Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat. Hear him every Friday on The Milo Yiannopoulos Show. Write to Milo at milo@breitbart. com.