The executive director of a physicians’ organization questions how the mainstream media can ignore signs of what could be a traumatic brain injury in the Democrat nominee for president. [Dr. Jane Orient, executive director of the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons, observes that “strangely silent is the mainstream media about the fitness” for presidential office of Hillary Clinton. At AAPS’ website, Orient summarizes the concerns about Clinton’s health that she says are growing:  There’s the photograph of Secretary Clinton’s difficulty walking up some steps. Now inability to climb stairs does not necessarily disqualify a person for public office. However, neither she nor people with her apparently anticipated a problem. The people helping her seem to be preventing a fall. Did she simply trip? Or was it a seizure or a stroke? Videos widely circulated on the internet are, if authentic, very concerning. One shows prolonged, inappropriate laughter another, strange head movements. In a third, she appeared momentarily dazed and confused, and lost her train of thought.  Reportedly, she has a volcanic temper. (This is probably not new.) A man who stays close to her, who is reportedly not a Secret Service officer, was photographed carrying something in his hand that purportedly might have been an autoinjector of Valium. While we don’t have Mrs. Clinton’s medical records, it is widely stated that she experienced a fall that caused a concussion. Since then, she is sometimes seen wearing eyeglasses with prisms, as are used to correct double vision. Orient explains that serious concussions can often cause traumatic brain injury that is not always detected on standard medical tests such as a CT or MRI. “Many of our veterans who experienced blast injury from improvised explosive devices suffer from it,” she continues, adding: These are some symptoms: difficulty thinking, attention deficits, confusion, memory problems, frustration, mood swings, emotional outbursts, agitation, headaches, difficulties with balance and coordination, and seizures. Many veterans with such an injury cannot hold a job or interact normally with their families. “Obviously, it would be very dangerous for a person subject to symptoms like this to be dealing with foreign leaders or making critical decisions,” she states. “The President of the United States may have to make   decisions on a moment’s notice. For example, should we launch   missiles? And if the Commander in Chief is confused, who will make the call?” In November of last year, watchdog organization Judicial Watch reported its review of pages of email from Clinton’s top aide Huma Abedin, in which Abedin advised a State Department staffer that it was “very important” to review phone calls with Clinton because she was “often confused. ” Abedin had emailed Monica Hanley, a State Department Clinton aide and companion, from her Huma@clintonemail. com address to alert Hanley about the need to review phone calls with the   of State. According to the report, on January 26, 2013, Abedin had the following email exchange with Hanley: Breitbart News asked Orient if the Judicial Watch report of Abedin’s emails is consistent with the signs she notes in her article. “It is,” she responds, adding: There are some very concerning things on Twitter #hillaryhealth. For example, that she naps at 5 p. m. and can’t be aroused, or that her   State exam  —   which you use to screen patients who might have an organic brain syndrome  —   has deteriorated since 2013. “Scurrilous lies? Or sign that somebody unknown is acting for her? Could she pass a random drug screen that might be required of a crane operator?” Orient asks. Orient then poses what is perhaps the most obvious question of all. “Is it conceivable that Hillary supporters would really be voting for Huma Abedin, Clinton’s top aide, or for the First First Husband President, Bill Clinton?” she asks. “The American people are entitled to know the objective medical facts about Secretary Clinton. ”