Sen. Elizabeth Warren ( ) attacked GOP nominee Donald Trump in the keynote address to the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. [“Wow! Michele Obama, Cory Booker, and we still have Bernie coming. Bernie reminds us what Democrats fight for every day,” she began.  “We are here tonight because America faces a choice,” Warren continued. “On the one hand,” she said, is a man who inherited a fortune, and who “has never sacrificed anything for anyone. ” “On the other side, is one of the toughest smartest people on the planet,” she said. “I’m with Hillary,” Warren added. The senator was exposed to national ridicule when her false claims of Native American heritage were debunked in 2012 by Breitbart News. “The system is rigged,” Warren claimed, sticking to her stump speech, ignoring news of the “rigging” of the Democratic nomination for Hillary Clinton over Sen. Bernie Sanders exposed in the Wikileaks of 20, 000 emails from the Democratic National Committee. “There is a huge difference for people fighting for a level playing field and people fighting to keep the system rigged,” she added. “To every Republican who said no, this November, the American people are coming for you,” she exclaimed. “Time after time, he preyed on working people,” Warren said of Trump. Trump, she said, “is a man who must never be the president of the United States. ” “Other than talking about building a stupid wall, which will never get built  …    did you hear any actual ideas [during his acceptance speech],” Warren asked rhetorically. Warren criticized Trump for what she called his proposals to “get rid of the federal minimum wage  …    role back regulations, and his tax plan. “Trump thinks he can win votes by fanning the flames of fear and hatred. By turning neighbor against neighbor. By persuading you that the real problem in America is your fellow Americans  —   people who don’t look like you, or don’t talk like you, or don’t worship like you,” Warren began. Warren, whose contributions to the Pow Wow Chow cook book, published by the Five Civilized Tribes Museum in 1984, were apparently plagiarized from a New York Times   author and chef, as Boston talk radio king Howie Carr first reported, made no mention of her disproven claims of Native American heritage as she delivered her   arguments attacking Donald Trump. “Every attack she made against Trump  —   con, fraud, cheat, turning American against American  —   could be equally applied to her. The only difference is, Trump never falsely checked the box to grab a   job he was not entitled to. Talk about a ‘rigged system,’” Carr tells Breitbart News after watching Warren’s speech tonight. Warren launched several additional attacks at Trump. “That’s Donald Trump’s America. An America of fear and hate. An America where we all break apart. Whites against Blacks and Latinos. Christians against Muslims and Jews. Straight against gay. Everyone against immigrants. Race, religion, heritage, gender  —   the more factions the better,” she added. “But ask yourself this. When white workers in Ohio are pitted against black workers in North Carolina, or Latino workers in Florida  —   who really benefits?” the former Harvard Law School professor asked. Divide and Conquer is an old story in America. Dr. Martin Luther King knew it. After his march from Selma to Montgomery, he spoke of how segregation was created to keep people divided. Instead of higher wages for workers, Dr. King described how poor whites in the South were fed Jim Crow, which told a poor white worker that, quote, “no matter how bad off he was, at least he was a white man, better than the black man. ” “Racial hatred,” Warren proclaimed, “was part of keeping the powerful on top. When we turn on each other, bankers can run our economy for Wall Street, oil companies can fight off clean energy, and giant corporations can ship the last good jobs overseas,” she continued. “When we turn on each other, rich guys like Trump can push more tax breaks for themselves  …    . we can’t unite to fight back against a rigged system,” Warren added, hitting on the “rigged” theme again. “Well, I’ve got news for Donald Trump. The American people are not falling for it!” she said. “We are not going to be Donald Trump’s   America. Not now, not ever,” she asserted. Warren then turned to make the case for Clinton. “Hillary will fight to make sure discrimination has no place in America, and we’re with her. ” According to Warren “We are with her” on a number of other issues: minimum wage, family leave, climate change, and reduction in student loans. Warren’s own crediblity, and therefore her ability to attack Trump, has been severely compromised by her steadfast refusal to admit that there is zero evidence to support her claim of Native American heritage, a claim she made in an attempt to promote her own professional career at the expense of true Native Americans. As Breitbart News reported in 2012, she compounded that lack of credibility when Boston radio talk show king Howie Carr discovered her cookbook plagiarism: The credibility of Massachusetts Democratic Senate candidate Elizabeth Warren took another hit today as Boston radio talk show host Howie Carr released evidence that appears to confirm Ms. Warren may have plagiarized at least three of the five recipes she submitted to the 1984 Pow Wow Chow cookbook edited by her cousin Candy Rowsey. Two of the possibly plagiarized recipes, said in the Pow Wow Chow cookbook to have been passed down through generations of Oklahoma Native American members of the Cherokee tribe, are described in a New York Times News Service story as originating at Le Pavilion, a fabulously expensive French restaurant in Manhattan. The dishes were said to be particular favorites of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor and Cole Porter. The two recipes, “Cold Omelets with Crab Meat” and “Crab with Tomato Mayonnaise Dressing,” appear in an article titled “Cold Omelets with Crab Meat,” written by Pierre Franey of the New York Times News Service that was published in the August 22, 1979 edition of the Virgin Islands Daily News, a copy of which can be seen here. Ms. Warren’s 1984 recipe for Crab with Tomato Mayonnaise Dressing is a    copy of Mr. Franey’s 1979 recipe. Mrs. Warren’s 1984 recipe for Cold Omelets with Crab Meat contains all four of the ingredients listed in Mr. Franey’s 1979 recipe in the exact same portion but lists five additional ingredients. More significantly, her instructions are virtually a word for word copy of Mr. Franey’s instructions from this 1979 article. Both instructions specify the use of a “seven inch Teflon pan. ” Warren began fundraising off her speech for her own Senate   hours before she delivered it: In just a few hours, I’ll be delivering one of the biggest speeches of my life: the keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention. The Republicans waited way too long to speak out about Donald Trump’s reckless and frightening vision for America  —   waited until it was too late to stop him. I won’t be making the same mistake tonight. Tonight will be a huge opportunity to talk about who we are as a people, and what kind of country we want to be. But it’s going to take grassroots support to take this message to working families all across this country. Please help us fight back against Donald Trump’s hatred and bigotry by making a donation by midnight tonight. Even $5 makes a big difference. Donald Trump has money and power  —   but we have our voices and our votes. If we fight back tonight, and every day through Election Day, then we can stop Donald Trump, take back the Democratic majority in the Senate, and give working families a fighting chance. Thanks for being a part of this, Elizabeth, Breitbart News reported extensively that there is zero credible evidence to support her claim that she has any Native American heritage, not even the false claim advanced by some Warren apologists that she is   Cherokee: Lynda Smith, the amateur genealogist who unknowingly found herself at the root of the false “Elizabeth Warren is   Cherokee” meme introduced to the media by “noted” genealogist Chris Child of the New England Historic Genealogical Society, acknowledged in an email to me this past Saturday, May 12, that her statement in a March 2006 family newsletter upon which Mr. Child based his claim of Ms. Warren’s Cherokee ancestry was made with no supporting documentation. It was, in fact, an honest mistake that Ms. Smith now acknowledges is entirely without foundation. Ms. Smith had been quoted in a statement in a March 2006 newsletter that William J. Crawford had listed his mother, Ms. Warren’s    grandmother O. C. Sarah Smith, as a Cherokee on an 1894 Oklahoma Territory marriage license application (emphasis added). In addition, she acknowledged that the same statement in her posting at a rootsweb page about William J. Crawford was made based on no documentation. Ms. Smith was assisted in unraveling this mystery, and coming to the realization that this statement had no basis in documentation, by Sam Morningstar, a fellow amateur genealogist who states that he is an enrolled member in a Native American tribe. Mr. Morningstar began investigating Ms. Warren’s purported Cherokee ancestry on May 1, the day that “noted” genealogist Chris Child of the New England Historic Genealogical Society was quoted saying in the Boston Herald that he had discovered a “marriage certificate” from 1894 that confirmed Ms. Warren’s claim of Native American ancestry. As William Jacobson at Legal Insurrection described the evolution of Warrent’s false claim of Native American heritage in May, “The short version is that Warren never claimed Native American status until she was in her 30s, and climbing the law professor ladder. ” In the 1980s, Warren listed her status as Native American when entering her biographical information in the national law professor directory that was used for hiring purposes by law schools. There was no internet then, and the paper directory was the source for information about prospective law professor hires. Entering herself as Native American landed Warren on a short list of “Minority Law Teachers” in the directory. . . Why would Warren do such a thing? When this was expose during the 2012 campaign, Warren said that she wanted to meet other law professors who were Native American like her, maybe have lunch with them. The problem is that no one reading the directory would know she claimed to be Native American that specific status was not listed, only that she was a “Minority Law Teacher. ” So she could not possible meet other Native American law teachers through her listing. Warren claims that she never told anyone at Harvard Law that she was Native American, but when she was a visiting professor at Harvard Law in the early 1990s she somehow ended up on a list of “Women of Color in Legal Academia. ” Soon after permanent hiring, Harvard Law touted her Native American status. Warren claimed when the Boston Herald exposed Harvard Law’s position not to know why she was promoted that way. Did Warren get the Harvard Law job because she claimed to be Native American? We don’t know, neither she nor Harvard Law have released her hiring file. But that’s not really the pertinent question. What we do know is that she tried to benefit from the claim, so at minimum there was an attempt to exploit that false claim.  