The Hennepin County prosecutor says that two Minneapolis police officers will not face criminal charges in the November, 2015 shooting death of Jamar Clark, a convicted felon who had assaulted his girlfriend and the paramedics trying to help her. [An investigation by the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension finds the shooting was justified. In a detailed press conference that showed photos and videos, Hennepin County attorney Mike Freeman said that evidence showed that Clark had attempted to take a gun from the police officers.  As Breitbart News reported, the shooting death of Clark, who was black, prompted immediate protests last year from both the Minneapolis NAACP and the aggressive Twin Cities Black Lives Matter movement. Protesters occupied a block in front of a local police station for over a week, in addition to blocking a local highway and then attempting to shut down the Mall of America and  . Paul airport at Christmas time. Attorney Freeman contested one of the chief claims of the protesters that Clark was handcuffed when shot. Freeman said “Forensic evidence and video evidence both support the belief that Clark was not handcuffed at any time through the altercation. ” The decision is expected to set off a new round of protests. Social media shows that some took to the streets immediately. #HappeningNow near the 4th. #JamarClark pic. twitter.   —   Jack Highberger (@JackHighberger) March 30, 2016,  Protesters shutting down Plymouth ave between James and Knox. Live: https:  .  #jamarclark pic. twitter.   —   MPR News (@MPRnews) March 30, 2016,  Two blocks have opened up. Block around #JamarClark memorial still closed by protestors.  —   Jack Highberger (@JackHighberger) March 30, 2016,  Coalition of groups say justice not done in #JamarClark case Do not believe Co Atty’s narrative about what happened pic. twitter.   —   maury glover (@maurygloverFOX9) March 30, 2016,  Last month, the Minneapolis police released a YouTube video in anticipation of potential protest.  However, as the New York Times reported, the mayor of Minneapolis immediately attempted to undermine the   message: In a statement after the video’s release, Mayor Betsy Hodges expressed “regret” that some of the images “do not reflect that the large majority of the people who protested at the Fourth Precinct last fall did so peacefully. ” “In Minneapolis, we value First Amendment rights to free speech and peaceful protest,” Ms. Hodges said in that statement, adding that she had spoken to Chief Harteau about her concerns. “As mayor, I intend to honor those values. ” Federal authorities say they are investigating the Clark case. UPDATE: A gathering is announced: #JamarClark  Minneapolis, tonight. What’s justice look like? Definitely not these non indictments. pic. twitter.   —   BrownBlaze (@brownblaze) March 30, 2016,  Follow Breitbart News investigative reporter and Citizen Journalism School founder Lee Stranahan on Twitter at @Stranahan.