On August 10 Rush Limbaugh reacted to the media attacks on Donald Trump by observing that Trump had simply told the truth about Hillary Clinton namely, that she wants to take your guns. [Limbaugh said any honest observer knows Trump is right because soundbites of Clinton —  even during this election cycle —  are riddled with her promises of more gun control. Moreover, Limbaugh pointed out that Clinton has made no bones about the fact that she will use executive action to institute more gun control if the Congress refuses to go along with her.  During his live broadcast Limbaugh said: Trump said what he says, as impolitic as it was —  characterize it however you will —  but the fact of the matter is that over here, the media and Hillary and Biden and Obama and the whole Democrat Party do indeed want to take away guns from law abiding people. They are acting like, ‘What? We never said that. Anybody thinking that is crazy. We wouldn’t every try to do that.’ But they do [want to do it] and they are dreaming about it and it is something that they would try to get done by virtue of nominating the right people to the Supreme Court. Limbaugh returned to the topic later in the live broadcast, saying: Hillary Clinton has said numerous times in this campaign that if Congress doesn’t act to ‘end the plague of gun violence’ in America, then she will do so by executive action. Now what is she going to do? What is Congress going to do? We already have laws on the books defining various [gun] crimes and spelling out the punishment. What else are they going to do? What is she talking about? In October 2015 Breitbart News reported that Hillary Clinton pledged gun control by executive action. The controls she wants include extending the instant background checks indefinitely by changing the amount of time the FBI has to carry out a check. She also wants to place new regulations on sales at gun shows and for guns sold online, and she wants to expand the definition of domestic violence to include dating relationships, then use that expanded definition to ban individuals from owning guns. Breitbart News previously reported that Clinton also wants to change our nation’s laws to allow shooting victims and their families to sue gun manufacturers after a criminal steals and misuses a gun —  harming people in the process —  or after a criminal brings a gun into a gun free zone in order to attack innocent victims who can’t fight back, the way Chris Harper Mercer did at Umpqua Community College. This action alone would drive gun prices through the roof as gun manufacturers seek ways to raise money to cover court costs incurred via lawsuit after lawsuit when criminals misuse guns. It would eventually drive gun manufacturers into bankruptcy and, finally, into oblivion. The reality of these and other gun control proposals —  coupled with her pledge to go it unilaterally if Congress won’t play along —  are what motivates Donald Trump to warn she plans to “abolish the Second Amendment. ” The reality that these controls are being purposed is what motivated Limbaugh to defend Trump for telling the truth. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.