The executive director of Wreaths Across America, Karen Worcester, joined Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Monday to discuss National Wreaths Across America Day, which is December 17, and to explain how people may get involved to help the deeply patriotic organization. She also thanked Breitbart News readers and listeners for being “instrumental” in helping the group meet its goal of placing a wreath on every headstone at Arlington National Cemetery last year. [Part of the group’s mission, as described on its website, reads, “Each December on National Wreaths Across America Day, our mission to Remember, Honor and Teach is carried out by coordinating   ceremonies at Arlington National Cemetery, as well as over 1, 100 additional locations in all 50 U. S. states, at sea, and abroad. ”  Via the website, individuals can sponsor a wreath for a veteran at Arlington or in any cemetery across America for as little as fifteen dollars and can also place a wreath in someone else’s name as a gift if they choose. More than 70, 000 assisted in   at Arlington National Cemetery on Wreaths Across America Day last year. Breitbart News readers were also able to help them reach their goals last year, and we encourage the same this year. Here is a look back at one December 2015 item Breitbart News wrote on the group: Wreaths Across America, a   responsible for placing commemorative garlands at the 230, 000 headstones in Arlington National Cemetery, was able to reduce its wreaths deficit by more than half in one day, to 7, 500, thanks in large part to donations from Breitbart News Daily listeners. The   which gets no government funding, was facing a shortfall of 18, 000 wreaths at the beginning of the day Monday. Karen Worcester, the executive director of Wreaths Across America, came on Breitbart News Daily on Sirius XM early in the morning that day, asking listeners to donate money so that every headstone at the Arlington Cemetery could get a fresh, evergreen wreath this holiday season. “Wreaths Across America is a 501c3,” said Worcester. “We are   we are   and our purpose is to remember the fallen, honor those that serve, and most importantly, to teach kids the value and the cost of what freedom is. ” This year on December 17 the group plans to place an excess of 1. 2 million wreaths on more than 1, 200 locations “to honor those who have given us these freedoms,” she said. The group places the wreath, then speaks the name of the fallen veteran out loud in keeping with the theme expressed on its site: “A person dies twice: once when they take their final breath, and later, the last time their name is spoken. ” Please visit the website to help in any way you can. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 