The gunshot survivor, frozen from the waist down, a .  bullet lodged between his left kidney and lowermost rib, lay on a hospital bed looking at mug shots of South Bronx gang members. Sgt. Michael J. LoPuzzo asked the man whether he could pick out his shooter. “Yep,” Bruce Purdy answered, looking spent. Then he handed back the 8     booklet, with 23 photos. “Who?” Mr. Purdy would not say. Soon, he told Sgt. LoPuzzo, the police would hear about a crazy man in a wheelchair shooting the person who had put him there. “Then you’ll know who it was,” Mr. Purdy said. The   threat only hinted at Mr. Purdy’s scorn for the system. Raised during a crack plague, he was a child of government institutions  —   a   foster homes, a city jail, six state prison facilities, public housing    —   who, at 29, had landed at yet another: Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center, a red brick monument to both   emergency treatment and overburdened recovery care where most gunshot victims in the South Bronx are taken. Detectives began to make regular trips to Mr. Purdy’s bedside in Room 6C at the hospital after the shooting in October. But he was unswayed: Having been robbed of sex and the use of his legs, he said, all he had to look forward to was getting revenge. Then one night in December, a week after Mr. Purdy had left the hospital against doctors’ orders with little more than a basic wheelchair, he fell short of breath, was picked up by an ambulance and, in the same emergency room that had tended to his gunshot wound, died of a blood clot. A   investigation by the New York City medical examiner traced the fatal clot to the shooting, and on March 14, Mr. Purdy’s death was added to this year’s homicide tally for the 40th Precinct, a section of the South Bronx where violence takes diverse paths to death. To understand what drives such violence, The New York Times is documenting each murder logged in the 40th Precinct this year. The killing of Mr. Purdy counted as the fourth homicide there two more have since been recorded, making the 40th the   precinct in New York City in 2016. Mr. Purdy’s murder is perhaps the precinct’s truest mystery this year. The killer remains on the loose, the beneficiary of a lack of cameras outside the public housing building near where Mr. Purdy was shot and a reluctance on the part of his companions and other witnesses to cooperate with the police. He carried his silence to the grave. Beyond the detectives, Mr. Purdy also gave up on Lincoln Medical Center in his last weeks. He resisted physical therapy. He told relatives he had been left to lie for hours in his own excrement. He lit his bedsheets on fire, and cursed and yelled at doctors to send him home. The hospital, in turn, said in medical records that it was unable to do more for Mr. Purdy. Doctors tried for weeks to find a bed at a rehabilitation center  —   especially difficult for patients on Medicaid  —   only to have him change his mind on the day of his discharge and go home. He told a nurse he planned to kill himself but was never admitted to a psychiatric ward. The records are not clear about whether he went home with a prescription for   medicine his mother said he did not. Saving Mr. Purdy from a bullet in the back was not enough. The poor pockets of the Bronx from which he carved his itinerant life created hurdles that made it hard for a gunshot survivor to stay alive. Mr. Purdy’s long path to death wound through a bathtub in a   project where a brother lifted his limp 181 pounds in and out of the water. Before that, Mr. Purdy lingered for six weeks at Lincoln Medical Center, a   hospital for trauma care that  —   like many institutions across the country  —   struggles to care for paraplegics. “This is just another case where society’s ability to care for people in a multidisciplinary way is not always so perfect, especially in underserved populations,” said Dr. Ronald Simon, the former chief of Lincoln’s trauma division and one of the doctors who oversaw Mr. Purdy’s treatment. While the challenges of his care illuminate broad problems in how the health care system treats the poor and permanently disabled, Dr. Simon and outside medical experts said the hospital appeared to have met the relevant treatment standards and that Mr. Purdy might have unwittingly hastened his death by leaving. He spent much of his last 47 days trying to prove he could return from injury and get justice on his own, without the help of doctors or detectives. Mr. Purdy’s mother, Thelma Johnson, believes her son would still be alive had doctors treated him more thoroughly at discharge. “When he left,” she said, “they didn’t do nothing but give him a wheelchair. ” Hanging on her wall at a homeless shelter on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx is a red   she pulled off his body in the emergency room, near a box containing his ashes. “One day,” she said, “I’m going to get some money and buy an urn for them. ” Mr. Purdy was shot in a void: a stretch of sidewalk unwatched by the city’s extensive   surveillance equipment, outside the reach of cameras, floodlights or gunshot detectors. It was 9 p. m. on Oct. 28, and he had been hanging out in Apartment 3C at 517 East 144th Street, a   building at the Betances Houses, a   project. He was with Yesenia Figueroa, the wife of his best friend, Shamel Robinson. The two had gone to court earlier after Mr. Robinson was arrested in the apartment early that day for having a loaded   .  pistol. (Mr. Robinson told officers he had gotten the gun after an argument at a bodega, according to court papers.) Mr. Purdy stepped outside to get chips and a soda. Ms. Figueroa, who has a history of arrests for prostitution, stayed inside. The apartment  —   sparsely decorated, with a curtain marking off one area  —   is home to a cast of transients. Mr. Purdy told detectives at one point that Ms. Figueroa was his fiancée, though she told a reporter they were only close friends. Steps from the building’s front door, a gunman came up from behind and fired two shots, the second going deep into Mr. Purdy’s back. He fell between two parked cars. “RRN!” the gunman yelled, Mr. Purdy told detectives, referring to a gang that, the police said, reigns in the Betances Houses and was behind a surge in shootings in the 40th Precinct that hit a recent peak of 72 in 2011 amid a feud with gang members from the nearby Moore Houses. Mr. Purdy told his sister Precious Parker that the gunman also screamed, “You on my block. ” Mr. Purdy told detectives that he had thought about playing dead, but it was too late. His eyes were still open and twitching when the gunman stood over his body. Then, inexplicably, the gunman uncocked his pistol and walked away. “I’m shot. I’m down, Miss, I’m down. Please,” Mr. Purdy told a 911 operator on his cellphone as he lay there alone. The operator mixed up the street name Mr. Purdy repeated it. When she asked him several times who shot him, he said he did not know. He grew more desperate as seconds ticked by. “Ma’am, ma’am, hurry up, there’s people coming,” he said. “Please hurry up. ” Of the gunman, he said: “They ran off, I think. I’m afraid. ” There was no blood at the scene the slug had spared major blood vessels on the way to Mr. Purdy’s spine. At the hospital, Mr. Purdy lurched between being depressed and being sanguine about his recovery, according to medical records his mother received. He had once dreamed of being a doctor and had studied nursing in prison. Now he was a case study in the physical devastation and psychological ripples that result from surviving a shooting. The bullet had shattered two of the strongest vertebrae, in the small of his back, nudging his spinal cord to the right. He lost movement and feeling in his lower half. Roughly one in four trauma cases at Lincoln Medical Center involve penetrating trauma  —   gunshots or knife wounds  —   compared with about 5 percent at most private hospitals, and so a trauma surgeon is always on duty. Mr. Purdy spent his time in Room 6C learning to shift from his bed to a wheelchair and being taught to insert a catheter to urinate. On Nov. 5, the day he was to have the bullet removed, he declined to be operated on, a decision that may have increased his back pain later. Doctors deemed him a “very high risk” for deep vein thrombosis, or blood clots in the legs, a notorious danger for paraplegics that stems from the loss of movement. He was treated with Lovenox, an injectable drug to prevent blood clots. Doctors say typical standards call for such patients to continue preventive treatments for at least three months, possibly six, sometimes forever. Starting around 2004, the city’s public hospitals undertook a   effort to address what Dr. Robert S. Kurtz, a trauma specialist who helped lead the push, called a “national problem” of failing to prevent deep vein thrombosis. He said city hospitals had raised their compliance rate above 90 percent. Reeling from his injury, Mr. Purdy clashed with medical staff members, refusing at first to discuss his family situation or mental state. Two days after the shooting he threatened to slide onto the floor unless someone brought him a wheelchair. Doctors said he had adjustment disorder, a response to   trauma. Mr. Purdy’s mother said his cousins took him cigarettes to smoke in bed. Having lost control of his bowel movements, he told relatives that nurses had left him sitting in his own excrement for hours. On Nov. 19 at around 2 p. m. a social worker, Maria   told him that he had not been doing physical therapy sessions. He replied that an attendant had tried to take him to therapy without cleaning the stool he had been lying in for three hours. He recorded his   conversation with Ms.   and a physical therapist, Michael Santoro. Mr. Purdy says of the physical therapy, “How am I going to go if I’m sitting in” excrement? On the video, Mr. Santoro can be heard telling Mr. Purdy his health has improved and that he can go home, but Mr. Purdy asks how they know. He says he has not seen them in five days. Ms.   replies, “You saw me like four days ago, not counting the weekend. ” They ask Mr. Purdy whether he can think of any other equipment he would need. Mr. Purdy sounds confused. They abruptly end the conversation, making preparations for Mr. Purdy’s discharge, possibly the next day. “The discussion was scattered, superficial, totally disconnected  —   it’s pathetic,” said Dr. Kurtz, former director of service for trauma and surgical critical care at Kings County Hospital Center and one of three doctors who reviewed the video and Mr. Purdy’s medical records at the request of The New York Times. He cautioned that the encounter showed only a snapshot of his care. “It’s a religion to take care of a spinal cord patient. It’s a massive undertaking. ” The city hospital system said in a statement, “The video demonstrates that the hospital staff were actively developing a safe and appropriate discharge plan. ” Mr. Santoro, asked about the video, said: “I gave him the best care I could, we all did. There was no improper care by me. ” Ms.   who has since left the hospital, declined to comment through her husband. On Nov. 26, Thanksgiving Day, at 7:34 p. m. with a TV commercial hawking holiday deals playing in the background, Mr. Purdy recorded another video. He lay naked on his bed, with a clump of stool and dirty wipes next to him. Speaking into his cellphone camera, he said he had been waiting 25 minutes for help. “This is embarrassing, man,” he said, aiming the camera out the open door. “You got guests, you got all sorts of people just walking by, door open. Look at me, look at me. ” He panned the camera to the pile of waste beside him. Paraplegic patients often languish without thorough and affordable care. Sound recovery requires, among other things, buying a special bed for home and teaching a patient’s relatives to give an enema. But doctors say that outside of Veterans Affairs hospitals, treatment often neglects even simple needs. “The care is fragmented, it’s scattered, it depends on the whim and the will of individuals,” Dr. Kurtz said, adding that there was a “crying need” for more seamless programs. A patient like Mr. Purdy could have left the hospital after as little as two weeks for a    rehabilitation center, Dr. Simon said. But while he estimated that 20 local rehabilitation centers would have taken Mr. Purdy if he had insurance, far fewer would have done so without insurance. “So he ended up staying at Lincoln for a more prolonged time until they found him a bed,” Dr. Simon said. The city hospital system said there was pressure from the federal government, in the form of financial penalties for delays, to move patients to rehabilitation centers. It did not take long for Mr. Purdy to spiral into desperation. “Patient started a fire by smoking and burning the bedsheet with the cigarettes stating to the nurse, ‘I will set more fire in the room to kill myself and the rest of the people,’” say medical records from six days after he was shot. Mr. Purdy told a nurse he had started to work out the details of how to kill himself and intended to carry out his plan. For a time, a health aide watched him around the clock. A psychiatrist followed up the next day to assess his capacity to make decisions. But the limited mental health care documented in the medical records provided to Ms. Johnson surprised some of the doctors interviewed for this article. Ms. Johnson said she had asked twice for her son’s full case file and specifically for his psychiatric records, but doctors who reviewed the documents said they appeared incomplete. The city hospital system said all records had been provided. Mr. Purdy later denied being suicidal. Dr. Simon noted that trauma care was often the first encounter with doctors in many years for young victims of violence in the South Bronx. Mr. Purdy’s mother and sister visited a few times a week, but without a regular family presence, the burden on him only grew. He repeatedly asked to go home, only for doctors to talk him out of it. Lincoln finally secured a bed for him in rehabilitative care at the city’s Metropolitan Hospital Center in East Harlem. An ambulance was arranged to take him at 1 p. m. on Dec. 7. But he changed his mind. Medical notes quote him telling attendants he was going home because someone had lost his belongings. Doctors enlisted a psychiatrist to evaluate whether they could keep Mr. Purdy in the hospital. Medical notes say he showed “magical thinking” in believing that he would walk again, but he was deemed “not delusional. ” Doctors concluded it would be illegal to hold him against his will. Dr. Simon, who was not involved in Mr. Purdy’s discharge, said he has had patients insist on leaving before, even when he told them they risked dying. “And they’re like, ‘I don’t care,’” he said. “That’s a sticky situation once you leave against medical advice. ” Mr. Purdy was told about the risks of blood clots, encouraged to exercise and stop smoking and educated on an injection for blood thinners, records show. But the records do not include a clear list of prescriptions he received at discharge. His family said he did not return home with a   prescription or medication. Ms. Parker, Mr. Purdy’s sister, whose public housing apartment doctors noted he was going to, said she was not informed of the risk of blood clots or how to help prevent them. Dr. Michael M. Baden, a former New York City chief medical examiner, said that proper administration of blood thinners would very likely have prevented the fatal clots. His   decision to go home would have made any plan more difficult to enforce. Dr. Kurtz said that he would have prescribed a blood thinner for home use, but that other doctors might reasonably have decided otherwise. He said he understood why someone as distraught and isolated as Mr. Purdy would have left against medical advice. One of the cousins who had been delivering him cigarettes rolled Mr. Purdy out in his wheelchair. Mr. Purdy came home to a family that hardly knew him. His own    daughter was in foster care, sent there in 2012 after he fought with the girl’s mother. It was a fate he knew himself. Around 1990, New York City’s child welfare agency took Ms. Johnson’s seven children from her home. Mr. Purdy was 5. His mother was sprinkling crack cocaine on cigarettes  —   she liked the smell of the drug mixing with tobacco  —   and smoking crack rocks from pipes. It was the tail end of an era when the crack cocaine trade drove violence across the city and left many children in broken homes. That began an institutional odyssey, as Mr. Purdy and his siblings bounced through five foster homes across the city together, rebelling at every turn and sometimes running away, Ms. Parker said. The most difficult siblings, Mr. Purdy among them, were separated and scattered across Long Island and the city. He landed in a Brooklyn home and at age 13, he joined the Shotgun Gangsta Crips, a local affiliate of the national Crips gang, he told a detective during a 2010 arrest. “He looked at it like his family,” said Mr. Robinson, his friend, who also grew up in foster care. “He didn’t have his real family. ” Around age 14, the two of them landed at an alternative school in Yonkers, where they bunked next to each other. Mr. Purdy told Mr. Robinson that he wanted to pursue a music career, and maybe become a doctor. They finished school, Mr. Robinson said, before moving into a group home in the northern Bronx that helped them look for jobs and took them to Six Flags and Disney World. But Mr. Purdy had inherited some of his parents’ drug habits, first smoking a joint around 15, Ms. Johnson said. “That’s what we do,” said Ms. Johnson, who started smoking marijuana at 9. “That’s just what we do. ” Ms. Johnson recalled telling mourners at her son’s funeral that he had tested her patience as a boy, running in from the street and sticking his hands in pots for an early taste. “That was me and his biggest problem,” she said. But he grew more bitter in later years. He would sometimes meet his mother on the streets after running away from foster homes. As they parted, he would call out, just loud enough to hear, “Crackhead. ” “I thought I was paranoid, that I was just hearing things,” Ms. Johnson said. “But that’s how he really felt about me. ” She trailed off, clapping her hands, upset at the memory.   people told the police they heard gunfire from Mr. Purdy’s shooting. But none reported seeing anything, using some version of a mantra that has wearied generations of Bronx detectives: “Heard shots, saw nothing. ” Detectives combed Mr. Purdy’s arrest record. (Over the years, he had used four different names  —   Mike Johnson, Bruce Cobb, Bruce Cobbs and his real name.) Many of his 23 arrests were for petty crimes, but some were for selling drugs, suggesting the possible role of narcotics or gangs in the shooting. His most serious crime came in 2009, when he choked a man from behind as two friends beat him and stole a cellphone and wallet. He pleaded guilty to   attempted robbery in 2011, after having served nearly 20 months at Rikers Island. He was in and out of state prison on parole violations until December 2014. He foretold his problems in a Facebook post the next year: “When I married the streets,” he wrote, “I knew she made your heart cold and would eventually take everything from you. ” But the Shotgun Gangsta Crips, Mr. Purdy’s gang, was not known to be in conflict with gangs in the Betances Houses. He had little history in the South Bronx many of his arrests were farther north, near his old group home. Mr. Purdy told relatives he believed the gunman had walked away while he was still alive because the man had mistaken him for someone else. A young man was arrested in a shooting using a .  gun at the same housing complex in April, and he said in an interrogation that the word on the street was that Mr. Purdy’s shooting was a case of mistaken identity. Without video footage, Detective Richard Simplicio said he made at least four visits to Mr. Purdy’s bedside, trying to get him to say what he knew. On one occasion Mr. Purdy commented on Detective Simplicio’s    Nike Dunks, leading to a conversation between sneaker buffs. “He felt comfortable,” the detective said. “Unfortunately not comfortable enough to assist in the shooting. ” Detective Simplicio said he sympathized. “At the end of the day, too, we’re not with them 24 hours a day,” he said, “we’re not there for the most part to help them out. ” Ms. Figueroa, his friend, rebuffed detectives twice. She and her husband, Mr. Robinson, had their own criminal cases, with Ms. Figueroa toting her baby in a carrier to an April court appearance for Mr. Robinson. He said he was in jail when he learned that his friend had died. Investigators believe Mr. Purdy told people close to him before he died that the man who had shot him was someone he had seen before. But detectives were counting on having more time to build a rapport with Mr. Purdy, to persuade him to cooperate rather than face the repercussions of his own revenge. Detective Simplicio said, “Obviously I didn’t think he was going to, you know, die, after he got cut loose from the hospital. ” Mr. Purdy joined the ranks of what the police call reclassified homicide victims, injured in one year but not added to the department’s murder tally until at least the next. They include people stabbed or shot decades ago who hang on until old age, as well as young paraplegics felled by bedsores that lead to amputations and infections. They are linked only by the creeping pace of death’s arrival, and the stalled investigations that can follow. Of the seven reclassified homicides logged by the police so far this year, five remain unsolved, a Police Department spokesman said, a reflection of how cases become harder to close as time goes on. There were 16 over all last year. “Of course a delay presents another challenge, but it’s not the only challenge,” said Dermot F. Shea, the department’s deputy commissioner in charge of crime analysis, stressing that detectives are trying just as hard to uncover clues while a victim is alive. In Mr. Purdy’s case, the crime scene unit that handles homicide scenes did not respond, leaving the work to an evidence collection team that conducts less rigorous ballistics tests and takes less detailed measurements. There was scant progress in the case between his death in December and the medical examiner’s homicide ruling in March. Only in recent weeks have detectives begun gathering better leads. No matter how quickly a victim’s relatives or law enforcement officials want an answer on the cause of death, the city’s 30 medical examiners are bound to trace a corpse’s clues to the start of the chain. “The No. 1 thing in every case is the body itself,” said the chief medical examiner, Dr. Barbara Sampson. “And the body never lies. ” Mr. Purdy’s autopsy was completed the day he died, and an examiner would have found the fatal blood clots in his lungs immediately. But the delay in ruling the case a homicide appears to have stemmed from toxicology tests, which can reveal contributing causes and take weeks or months to be completed. When Mr. Purdy arrived at the emergency room he said he felt short of breath after smoking marijuana, initially leading doctors to believe he might have died of   complications. They told his mother it looked as if he had taken K2, a drug whose popularity at the time was creating a panic, though Mr. Purdy told his mother he had not. Soon after, the medical examiner’s office cautioned Sergeant LoPuzzo, the commander of the 40th Precinct detective squad, that drugs like K2 could have raised Mr. Purdy’s body temperature and caused the release of the blood clots. But his death certificate ultimately linked them to the gunshot wound and resulting paralysis, not to any drugs. The blood clots pooled in his legs, migrated toward his heart and threw off fatal clots to both lobes of his lungs. Back at his sister’s apartment, Mr. Purdy’s nieces and nephews jumped into his thick, tattooed arms, competing for attention. They asked why he was in a wheelchair. “And he said, ‘Because I done something really stupid,’” his mother, Ms. Johnson, recalled. He kept to himself what he meant. He took trips outside in his wheelchair for a smoke or fresh air. He fitfully discovered life outside the hospital as a paraplegic. He dwelled on the numbness in his penis, expressing anxiety about never again being able to have sex or children. “I’m never going to feel this again?” he would say, Ms. Johnson recalled. “It was funny to me, but he was really serious. ” As a salve for his fears, his aunt tickled him below the waist. “And he felt that,” Ms. Johnson said. At the end of each day his younger brother Randy Parker, an Army veteran of Kuwait and Afghanistan, scrubbed him down in the bath. Mr. Purdy often hugged him and told him he loved him, and grieved his wilting body. Mr. Parker recalled him saying, “‘I never thought that I would see the day that my baby brother would have to pick me up and do this, you know, wipe my ass and change my Pampers and stuff like that. ’” “He would sit there and he would cry,” Mr. Parker added. On the night of Dec. 13, Ms. Parker ordered a pizza. Mr. Purdy and some siblings were playing cards at a table in a cramped kitchen of her   apartment. He gasped for air. “At first I’m thinking it’s a joke,” Ms. Parker said. “He said he was tired. ” Mr. Purdy had been sleeping on a couch in the living room, and Mr. Parker wheeled him there to rest. It was the first time he had lost his breath since coming home. “Next thing you know, he’s like, ‘I can’t breathe, I can’t breathe,’” Ms. Parker said. An ambulance rushed him to Lincoln Medical Center, where emergency medical workers took him in just as his mother arrived. His heart was racing, its rate in the 130s. He had high blood pressure. Nurses tried pulling his clothes off, but it hurt his back. “So I was like, ‘O. K. I got this, let me do this,’” his mother said. Her son threw up his arms, and she pulled off his shirt. Seconds later his eyes rolled back and his body started shaking. Nurses tried to tie him to the gurney to draw blood, but he went unconscious. He “began having    activity where he would gesticulate and make grunting noises,” medical notes say. Doctors pulled him away. He was put on a ventilator at 12:43 a. m. A   later, he had no pulse. For 26 minutes, doctors tried to resuscitate him. At 1:41 a. m. on Dec. 14, he was pronounced dead by Dr. Allysia Guy. They wrote in medical records that his death appeared connected to an unknown drug, though they acknowledged not understanding the true cause. The next day at 10 a. m. Mr. Purdy had been scheduled to have his first doctor’s appointment since his discharge from Lincoln. It was the day before what would have been his 30th birthday. One of the last things doctors had told him was how important that appointment was.