Nightly Show host Larry Wilmore lightheartedly suggested he would like to suffocate Donald Trump with a pillow during a segment on his Comedy Central program Monday night. [After briefly discussing a fashion website’s   between Oprah Winfrey and Whoopi Goldberg at the Oscars on Sunday, Wilmore pivoted to a joke about Trump.  “Anyway, since we’re talking about bigotry, we have to mention Donald Trump,” Wilmore said. “Sorry everyone, I don’t wont to give him any more oxygen. That’s not a euphemism by the way I mean it literally. Somebody get me the pillow they used to kill Scalia, and I’ll do it. I’ll do it!” Wilmore then proceeded to demonstrate what suffocating Trump to death might look like, before adding: “I could get in trouble for that, actually!” The Nightly Show with Larry WilmoreGet More: The Nightly Show Full Episodes, The Nightly Show on Facebook, The Nightly Show Video Archive, Wilmore’s segment comes as others in the media and Hollywood have similarly joked about killing the Republican presidential frontrunner as the 2016 election has become increasingly contentious in the   to the Super Tuesday primaries. Last week, New York Times columnist Ross Douthat suggested that Trump’s presidential campaign would end with an assassination attempt. “Good news guys I’ve figured out how the Trump campaign ends,” Douthat wrote in a   tweet that included a short clip of a fictional presidential assassination from the film The Dead Zone. Douthat later apologized for the tweet. And just a few days ago,   George Lopez tweeted out a cartoon image of notorious drug lord El Chapo holding Trump’s severed head atop a mountain of skulls. pic. twitter.   —   George Lopez (@georgelopez) February 28, 2016,  Wilmore’s Nightly Show has been an unqualified ratings disaster for Comedy Central. In an “Ask Me Anything” (AMA) on Twitter last month, Wilmore defended his struggling show by saying it was never meant to be a successor to the Daily Show or the Colbert Report and sought instead to focus on “race, class and gender. ” The Nightly Show is down 55 percent from Colbert’s show, which aired in the same time slot, and down 29 percent off of its own ratings from just last year.