Hours after FBI agents interviewed her at the bureau’s Washington headquarters for three hours Saturday, sources inside the Department of Justice are spreading the word high and low that Hillary Clinton will not be indicted for her private email server and handling of classified materials outside of secure government channels. [According to multiple media outlets DOJ sources said the FBI investigation marks the end of the probe and there will be no indictment.  It was an investigation FBI Director James Comey told reporters May 11 that he was watching personally. “I remain close to that investigation, to ensure that it’s done well and has the resources that are needed. ” Donald J. Trump tweeted earlier Saturday: “It is impossible for the FBI not to recommend criminal charges against Hillary Clinton. What she did was wrong! What Bill did was stupid!” The New York City developer followed with: “It was just     no charges will be brought against Crooked Hillary Clinton. Like I said, the system is totally rigged!” Because Trump was one of the first to get the news, it may be that he heard it through a channel established years ago. When the FBI Director was President George W. Bush’s U. S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, based in Manhattan, his colleague due south was  . S. Attorney for New Jersey Chris Christie, the current governor of New Jersey and on the shortest of short lists of men Trump could pick for the   slot. Comey and Christie became partners in fighting crime and terrorism and remain close friends. The news came as a surprise to many, but not to Sen. Cory Booker (D. . J.). The former mayor of Newark was asked by CNN’s Brianna Keilar in a State of the Union interview Saturday about the chances of Vice President Joseph Biden or Sen. Bernie Sanders (I. .) taking the Democratic presidential nomination in place of Clinton if she is indicted. Booker betrayed his street savvy when he flat out told her: “That’s something that, to me, is not even within the realm of possibility. ” Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee tweeted a   combined here: “That FBI wanted her for ? ing reinforces her role in creating a culture which put her ambitions above State Dept rules  jeopardized natl sec. And the American people need to have confidence that the Obama Justice Dept is conducting a fair  impartial investigation. ”