The Obama administration has sent an email containing     talking points to   Hollywood influencers in an effort to  encourage them to promote the White House’s immigration policies on social media during June’s Immigrant Heritage Month. [According to Fox News, White House Associate Director of Public Engagement Jesse Moore sent an email to a number of unidentified Hollywood   and executives last week with a list of short, social   talking points that the Obama administration hopes the celebrities will post for their millions of followers on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.  Celebrities were reportedly encouraged to use the following messages on social media along with the hashtags #ImmigrantHeritageMonth and #IAmAnImmigrant, according to Fox: “We are a nation of immigrants, and whether you are an immigrant, the child or grandchild of immigrants, or you stand with immigrants  —   it’s on all of us to ensure that we continue to recognize the role immigrants continue to play at the core of this country,” the email to Hollywood influencers read. The email also contained a video released by nonprofit organization Welcome. Us earlier this month, in which stars including Kerry Washington, Rosie Perez and George Lopez talked about the importance of immigration and urged other activists and celebrities to join the #IAmAnImmigrant campaign.  The campaign appeared to making headway early on, as celebrities including Washington, Norman Lear and Alfred Molina took to Twitter to post variations of the talking points on their accounts: Join Kerry and become part of the #IAmAnImmigrant movement today https:  .    pic. twitter.   —   kerry washington (@kerrywashington) June 2, 2016,  My parents came from distant  counties to find the American dream. I’m proud to join the   #IAmAnImmigrant movement  https:  .   —   mia farrow (@MiaFarrow) June 3, 2016,  I’m extremely proud to be part of the #IAmAnImmigrant movement. Make your own image at https:  .  https:  .   —   Alfred Molina (@OfficialMolina) June 2, 2016,  I loved my grandparents. All immigrants. My neighbors. My heroes  —   sons  daughters of immigrants. #IAmAnImmigrant https:  .   —   Norman Lear (@TheNormanLear) June 1, 2016,  The immigration email follows a similar email sent out by the White House earlier this year that encouraged celebrities to tweet   talking points on gun control, using the hashtag #StopGunViolence. As Breitbart News reported then, a number of celebrities including Ashton Kutcher and Mark Ruffalo tweeted some of the White House’s talking points verbatim.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,    