LONDON  —   The final match of the Premier League season for Manchester United and Bournemouth was abandoned Sunday afternoon after a security blunder forced the dramatic evacuation of tens of thousands of fans from the stadium. The authorities were initially praised for ushering 50, 000 spectators out of Manchester’s Old Trafford stadium after a suspicious object was found in the stands. Sniffer dogs were dispatched, and bomb disposal experts carried out a controlled detonation of what was then described as an “incredibly lifelike explosive device. ” But to officials’ embarrassment, the suspicious item  —   a cellphone connected to a gas pipe  —   turned out to be a training device that the police later announced had “accidentally been left by a private company following a training exercise involving search dogs. ” “Whilst this item did not turn out to be a viable explosive, on appearance this device was as real as could be, and the decision to evacuate the stadium was the right thing to do, until we could be sure that people were not at risk,” said John O’Hare, an assistant chief constable with the Greater Manchester Police. The bomb scare caused particular fear because Britain had just days before raised the terrorist threat level linked to Northern Ireland to “substantial” from “moderate,” warning that an attack was a strong possibility. Theresa May, Britain’s home secretary, said that decision reflected “the continuing threat from dissident republican activity. ” In March, a group calling itself the New Irish Republican Army claimed responsibility for a bomb attack on a van driven by a prison officer. The group, which opposes the Northern Ireland peace process, said it was “ready and determined to take the war to the   enemy of our nation. ” There has been a heightened awareness of security surrounding sporting events in Europe, with the European soccer championships set to begin in France next month. French officials have said repeatedly that the championships, the Continent’s marquee soccer tournament, will be secure. But scrutiny of the plans has intensified since terrorists targeted the Stade de France, outside Paris, as part of a wave of attacks in Paris in November. The championship, which will run from June 10 to July 10, will be held in 10 cities across France. Organizers have revamped plans for security and estimated that 10, 000 people would be hired to staff the operation, which will cover the stadiums as well as city centers and organized fan zones: areas for people to congregate and watch matches on video screens. Each host city has gone through simulations of a variety of situations, including terrorist attacks. After the attacks in Paris, and this year in Brussels, the security budget for the fan zones was doubled to about $27 million. While postponements of   matches for security reasons are rare, Sunday’s decision was hardly unprecedented. After the terrorist attacks in Paris, an exhibition game between Germany and the Netherlands was called off and fans were evacuated after a suspicious object was found inside the stadium in Hanover, Germany. Officials described an “intention to ignite explosives. ” In 2004, the Basque newspaper Gara reportedly received a phone call saying a bomb was set to explode at Real Madrid’s Bernabéu stadium. More than 70, 000 people were evacuated shortly before the end of a match between Real Madrid and Real Sociedad, but no explosive device was found. The number of significant sporting events taking place in cities across Europe on a daily basis can make tighter security measures everywhere impractical. For regular league matches, local police officers work with the clubs to handle security. When a possible   emergency occurs, as it did Sunday, protocol typically involves calling in national or military officers for assistance, which was what the Manchester police did. The Premier League rescheduled the match between Manchester United and Bournemouth for Tuesday.