A Baltimore rapper was shot and killed in what police say was a “targeted” attack shortly after hosting a charity basketball game that was organized to “pray for peace” in the   streets. [According to the Washington Post, rapper Lor Scoota  —   real name Tyriece Travon Watson  —   was shot and killed Saturday evening at a busy intersection in Baltimore. He was reportedly just a   away from the arena where he had just hosted the charity basketball game when an    black male wearing a white bandana approached his car and opened fire at around 6:56 p. m.  The rapper was taken to a local hospital but later died of his injuries. Scoota had just come from an event at the Morgan State University Hill Field House billed “Touch the People: Pray for Peace in These Streets. ” A photo posted by Young Ballers Shinning ✨ (@scootaupnext) on Jun 16, 2016 at 9:22am PDT,  According to Baltimore’s City Paper, the    rapper was a strong advocate of   and was “frequently seen at   events” spreading his message. During the unrest in Baltimore after the death of Freddie Gray, Scoota reportedly recorded a series of PSAs that aired on local radio stations urging   solutions and “encouraging peace. ” The Baltimore Police Department said in a statement that it is investigating the incident as a “targeted attack. ” Baltimore police spokesman T. J. Smith took to Twitter on Saturday to urge anyone with information about the shooting to come forward. “We have to be tired of this,” Smith wrote. “Can Scoota be a wake up call for us? He entertained many, now gone, just like that. We are better than this. ” Tributes quickly poured in for the slain rapper from Baltimore locals and fellow rappers, including Meek Mill and The Game.  Damn #lorscoota I seen so many young niggas fall victim Tryna make it out #restup, A photo posted by Meek Mill (@meekmill) on Jun 25, 2016 at 6:25pm PDT,  “Another young one murdered,” The Game wrote on Instagram. “Just last year the lil homie @scootaupnext was over my left shoulder in the huddle working on#TheDocumentary2 everyday in Los Angeles  …      …    . Then this news hits me SMH. LIFE  …      …      …     hold onto it, or you’ll lose it  everything in it in the blink of an eye. #RipLorScoota” Scoota became a local celebrity in Baltimore in 2014 with his song “Bird Flu. ” The song inspired its own “Bird Flu” dance craze.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum