Calling a leftist political agitator conducting an organized disruption of a Donald Trump rally a “protester” is like calling a carjacker a “transportation facilitator. ”[Rosa Parks was a protester the Trump rally disrupters are thuggish enforcers. And it’s time Republicans stop blaming the victim when the thugs show up for the cameras.  By a planned, coordinated chorus of shouting, chanting and provocative physical obstructions, these thugs are not affirming anyone’s rights. They are enforcing the canons of political correctness as currently taught in our universities —   condoned by the mass media and too often excused by   politicians too willing to score cheap shots at the expense of vital principles. Candidate Donald Trump is the number one target today, because he is leading the parade. But it was me yesterday and it may be you or YOUR favorite candidate tomorrow. A few years ago while still in Congress, I had been invited by the College Young Republicans to speak on the campus of the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. As I watch what is happening at Trump rallies I am reminded of my own experiences and the thought that I have never seen a group of conservative students  —   or adults  —   pull the same violent crap on liberal speakers. Only the left is so frightened of ideas. These totalitarians who disrupt peaceful assembly should be charged with hate crimes, as I have never heard more vile,   language than that which spews from their mouths. I been been a vocal supporter of Ted Cruz, but I am ashamed of how he was so quick to join the   chorus in blaming Trump’s language for inviting and “inciting” the protesters. Why are so many Republicans willing to allow PC thugs to become the arbiters of acceptable taste and language in political speech? Do they really think the thuggery is aimed only at Trump’s language and not his ideas? Or do they care about such distinctions? The planning for the organized disruption of candidate Trump’s public events began the day he launched his campaign by attacking illegal immigration and open borders, and the disruptions began as soon as he became the presumed winner of the Republican nomination. Turning the 2016 election into a referendum on Trump’s persona instead of Hillary’s dishonesty and Obama’s legacy is a cornerstone of Democrat strategy. Do you think any   progressive would waste his time disrupting a Kasich rally? Or Mitt Romney? Why bother? The left only targets its mortal enemies, not useful idiots who parrot the PC line on cultural diversity, the “religion of peace,” and open borders.