The      of   Anne Frank says Donald Trump is a new Adolf Hitler because he opposes more Islamic migration into the United States. [“I think he is acting like another Hitler by inciting racism” against Muslim believers,   Eva Schloss said in an essay that Newsweek magazine chose to print.   “If Donald Trump become the next president of the U. S. it would be a complete disaster,” said Schloss, who is urging European leaders  —   including German Chancellor Angela Merkel  —   to invite millions more   Muslims from the Middle East to settle in Europe. In 2015, Merkel opened Germany’s borders, and more than 1 million Muslims flooded in by the end of 2015. Her decision led to numerous attacks by Muslims on German women and girls, and on Jews, and has caused a   public revolt against the Islamic migration.  Schloss fled from Nazi forces to Belgium in 1938, but was arrested by Hitler’s     police and sent to the Auschwitz   camp. Anne Frank was arrested in 1944, and died of disease by March 1945, shortly before her camp was liberated by U. S. Army tanks. In her essay, Frank’s stepsister, however, did not accuse Democrats of “inciting racism” by supporting the Black Lives Matter movement or supporting progressive campus teachings that rail against “white male privilege. ” The Islamic contempt towards   which is displayed when Muslim migrants harass, grope, assault and sexually abuse   European women, or kill Jews, was not addressed in the stepsister’s essay. Much to the embarrassment of Islam’s advocates, that aggressive aspect of Islam was admired by     Hitler, who naturally also hated Christianity’s peacefulness, reason and emphasis on individuals’ conscience. In December, Trump announced his opposition to Muslim immigration because of jihad attacks. “Without looking at the various polling data [about Muslim attitudes] it is obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension. Where this hatred comes from and why we will have to determine,” he said in a statement. Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in Jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life. Trump’s opposition to the   immigration of Muslims is popular among Americans. Comparing politicians to Hitler is a common political tactic that has yielded all kinds of protest signs depicting George W. Bush with a Chaplin mustache, and the like. But the fact of the matter remains that racial and ethnic genocide, like the kind practiced by Hitler during the Holocaust, and similar human rights abuses against minorities, are actually being perpetrated right now by Muslim terrorist groups in the Middle East. Trump continues to dominate national Republican primary polls.  