Pat Caddell talked to Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Thursday about the apparent disconnect in election polling, stating, “The secret is nobody knows what we’re polling. ”[Caddell continued:  There are different ways of doing it. They come out with different results   …     because the polling tends now to be very snap  —   who’s ahead, who’s behind. We’re not looking deep enough into the attitudinal structure of this race. And that’s where I have repaired myself, which is to really try to dig into that because that is what, in the end, what will be determinative. “Some of these polls are good. Some are not good,” stated Caddell, adding: We don’t know, for example  —   we have voter models based upon past performance  —   we don’t know whether that’s going to hold up. The Trump model indicates voters who have not been participating, but are registered, who are planning to come out and vote. “On the Breitbart polling   …     we’re trying to look a little deeper at this to understand what’s at play.   …     The truth of the matter is the race still hangs unresolved yet,” asserted Caddell. As for the election itself, he said: One of the things we’ll see, and I’ll predict this now and why if Trump’s going to win, he has to go to this higher ground, is, you’re going to see   …     just how much the establishment order will fight to hold onto its power and privilege at all costs. It is going to be the most   assault in every direction to try to keep [Trump] out of the White House. And so this is headed to Armageddon, if you will, politically. “This is an election where the American people have bolted,” said Caddell, adding: They want control back of their government and they are very   and political class. That’s why you see such a united effort by the Democrats and Republicans in the establishment who are terrified that Trump represents the diminution of their power. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. EST. LISTEN: 