WASHINGTON  —   Defying pleas by many of its students and faculty to reconsider, George Mason University moved on Tuesday to finalize the renaming of its law school in honor of Antonin Scalia, the Supreme Court justice who died recently. It did so after the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia declined to block the name change, ending for now a  debate that has divided George Mason’s suburban Washington campus since the university announced in March the decision to rename the school and the large gift from conservative donors prompting it. Though it was expected, the decision came as a disappointment to the students and faculty, as well as a dozen or so Democrats in the Virginia legislature, who opposed the name change out of concern that it would tie the university to a conservative justice whose views, they thought, ran counter to its educational mission. George Mason administrators ultimately found that argument unpersuasive. And on Tuesday, in a bureaucratic twist, the council’s members unanimously decided that in fact they did not have the authority to override the university’s board of visitors, which had already accepted the donations and the terms that came with them. David K. Rehr, the law school’s senior associate dean, lauded the outcome and said that though the school was better for having had the debate over the name change, it was time to move on. The combined $30 million gift  —   given by the Charles Koch Foundation and an anonymous donor  —   will fund new scholarships, a dozen new faculty positions, and two new centers in line with the school’s flagship Law and Economics Center, which emphasizes the economic effect of the law, beginning next fall. The renaming is intended to take effect July 1. “We think that looking back five, 10, 15 years from now, people will see it as an important turning point for the law school and for the students here,” Mr. Rehr said. Opponents of the renaming agree, though they argue that the changes will not be for the better, signaling to potential students of diverse backgrounds that George Mason is not welcoming to them. It is less clear what effect Tuesday’s decision will have on the increased scrutiny the gifts have prompted among faculty members over the influence conservative donors  —   chiefly Mr. Koch, the billionaire industrialist who has given tens of millions of dollars to pet projects there  —   have on Virginia’s largest public university. “This issue really brought to the surface a whole set of issues that have been alive on our campus for a long time that we have not really been responding to,” said Craig Willse, a cultural studies professor who helped lead the opposition to the change. “Specifically, the issue of Koch money has really been put on the table in a way that it hasn’t been before. ” In a series of letters to the university faculty in recent weeks, Ángel Cabrera, George Mason’s president, pledged to address concerns and reiterated that he would never cede academic independence to a private donor. A faculty senate task force studying the influence of private donors is expected to release a report in the fall. As for the name change, those who had tried to block it said they were resigned on Tuesday, if dissatisfied with the state’s inability to regulate such changes. “I think short of getting the board of visitors to change their minds, which they have demonstrated they don’t want to do, I think this is it,” said Marcus Simon, a Democratic state delegate who had led a petition drive against the change. “The name’s the name for the foreseeable future. ”