AIKEN, SOUTH CAROLINA —   More than 1, 000 people filled the University of South   Convocation Center on Monday morning to show support for Senator Ted Cruz. [Aiken  —   a town surrounded by   of rural land  —   is undoubtedly Cruz country. While Republican frontrunner Donald Trump is the dominant presence in South Carolina’s urban population centers, here in Aiken and in the surrounding areas, Cruz lawn signs line the streets of America’s Heartland.  “All across South Carolina, people are waking up. And there is a wakening and spirit of revival that is sweeping this country,” he told the audience. Cruz promised that on his first day of office, he would rescind all of the “illegal and unconstitutional” executive actions taken by Obama, “rip to shreds this catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal,” and move the American embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, its capital city. He took the time to recognize the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, who the Texas Senator called  “an American hero. A lion for the law. A lion for the Constitution. ” “We are one justice away” from a Supreme Court filled with five   liberal activists, Cruz explained. “That’s what the stakes are. ” “I intend to make 2016 a referendum on the U. S. Supreme Court. And let me tell you right now I can not wait to stand on that debate stage with Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders,” he said.  He reminded the audience that Donald Trump is a “candidate who has spent 60 years of his life” as a   individual. “We should ask, ‘Show me when you stood up’” and defended   principles, and the first and second amendments, Cruz added. On National Security, Cruz pledged, “we will utterly and completely destroy” the Islamic State. He talked about an incident a few days ago in which a Somali national attacked an Ohio restaurant in an apparent act of jihad, saying that in a Cruz administration, aspiring jihadis would not be allowed into the country. The Senator was joined by Congressman Mark Meadows ( ) who led the fight to overthrow former House Speaker John Boehner, former Congressman Bob Barr ( ) and conservative author Glenn Beck.  “Do you trust a   host. ” Glenn Beck asked the crowd, taking shots at rival contender Donald Trump.  “It wasn’t just a bad debate, it was a case study in psychological disorders,” Beck added, directing his fire at Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) and Trump. “No one person can make America great, it is We The People who can make America great,” he said in criticizing Trump.