LONDON (AP)  —   After Britain famously endured a   wait between Wimbledon men’s champions, Andy Murray has given the host country a pair of titles in quick succession. [Murray dulled booming serves with   returns, played impressively   tennis while coming up with daring passing shots and beat Milos Raonic     (3)   (2) on Sunday for his second trophy at the All England Club since 2013 and third Grand Slam championship overall.  When he sat in his sideline chair after it was over, Murray wiped away tears with a tournament towel. The   Murray was playing in his 11th major final, but the first against someone other than Novak Djokovic or Roger Federer. But he didn’t need to face either of those rivals this fortnight: The   Raonic eliminated Federer in five sets in the semifinals Friday, and also defeated the player who stunned Djokovic in the third round, Sam Querrey. Those wins helped the    Raonic make his debut in a Grand Slam title match  —   the first man representing Canada to make it that far at one of the sport’s four most important tournaments. He did it, primarily, on the strength of his speedy and intimidating serves, averaging 25½ aces while being broken a total of only five times through six matches. But on a breezy afternoon, at a Centre Court filled with nearly 15, 000 partisan fans, Murray basically shut down that integral part of Raonic’s game. It’s been a rough few weeks for Britain, what with its vote to leave the European Union, the resulting drop of the pound’s value, and the subsequent resignation of Prime Minister David Cameron, who was seated in the front row of the Royal Box on Sunday, several seats over from Prince William and his wife, Kate. Murray was even asked by a reporter during Wimbledon how it felt being Britain’s “last hope,” a question he jokingly dismissed by replying, “It’s not that bad, is it? Is it that bad?” Murray, a    from Scotland, long dealt with the expectations and pressures that accompanied being the locals’ best chance to find a new champion to succeed Fred Perry, who won the tournament in 1936. But Murray has thrived, with a   defensive game and sublime returns of serve. In a testament to Murray’s ability as a returner  —   a combination of timing and dexterity  —   it took Raonic 36 minutes and five service games to record his first ace. Over and over, Murray managed to get the ball back, even one that came in at 147 mph. Raonic was limited to eight aces in all, only one more than Murray. And while Murray only managed to break Raonic once, to lead   in the opening set, that was all it took, because the tiebreakers were both   traffic. Just as significant: Murray took 50 of 65 points he served across the first two sets, not only never facing so much as a break point in that span but only once being taken to deuce. Finally, at   in the third, Raonic got to   for his first  —   and, it turned out, only  —   break points, thanks to a forehand return winner off an 82 mph second serve. But Murray stood tall, taking the next four points to hold, then wheeling toward his box, pumping his right fist and yelling. He was well on his way, thanks to such clean play that he finished with a mere 12 unforced errors, while Raonic had 29. ___, Follow Howard Fendrich on Twitter at 