Times Insider delivers    insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times. In this piece, David E. Sanger, a national security correspondent, tells why he didn’t travel to Egypt to cover Secretary of State John Kerry’s visit with President Abdel Fattah  . VIENNA  —   When Secretary of State John Kerry traveled on Wednesday to the presidential palace in Egypt, ostensibly the United States’ closest Arab ally and the recipient of billions of dollars in American aid, the reporters traveling with him were left behind at the airport. The Egyptian authorities made clear, State Department officials said, that reporters like myself would not be welcome at the presidential palace, apparently out of fear we might ask President Abdel Fattah   a question or two about the dissidents he has jailed. Instead, only photographers and videographers would be permitted inside, to record the ritual handshakes between Mr. Kerry and Mr. Sisi  —   images that will suggest all is right between the authoritarian former general who leads Egypt and the nation that provides him with   helicopters and tanks, as well as riot control equipment that human rights groups say may be used to facilitate Egypt’s crackdown against activists. In fact, this meeting comes against a backdrop of increasing tension over Washington’s $1. 3 billion in annual military aid to Egypt, which in recent years has been dwarfed by inflows to the country from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The State Department has lately been unable to obtain answers to its questions about whether any equipment bought with American dollars has been used by Egyptians to violate human rights, according to a blistering   report issued last week by the Government Accountability Office. After more than two decades of traveling with American presidents and chief diplomats  —   on visits to places that have included some of the world’s most repressive nations  —   I am used to watching leaders disappear behind closed doors. But not even being allowed to see the doors close sets something of a new standard. State Department officials said that once they learned reporters would be barred from the palace, they never even requested visas for us so we could, as is customary, follow Mr. Kerry into the capital for his   to   visit. Instead, those who made the long trip were stuck in a lounge at the airport. I decided to stay behind in Vienna and meet up with the secretary’s entourage this weekend in Myanmar, where he is meeting with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, who has emerged from a long house arrest to become a leader of the new government. (There have been hints that we will have some access.) The contrast between Myanmar, once one of the world’s most closed societies, and Egypt made me revisit my recent travels with Mr. Kerry in terms of what restrictions were placed on us journalists. In November, Mr. Kerry zipped through Central Asia on a tour of some of the world’s most repressive states, including Turkmenistan, whose leadership shares Mr. Sisi’s approach to anyone who utters a thought the government finds distasteful. Still, President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov allowed international  reporters to record his encounters with Mr. Kerry, though local Turkmen journalists were kept at a far remove. The King of Bahrain, who knows a thing or two about clearing the streets of critics, invited reporters in for the start of his meeting with Mr. Kerry last month, and, with a deep understanding of how to keep them docile, fed them at the palace before they were packed off. Even China’s leaders routinely let the news media pool in, though they do their best to ignore them. Egypt used to do the same  —   in what now looks, by comparison, like the days of openness when Hosni Mubarak was still president. Mr. Mubarak was not known for tolerating much criticism before he was deposed, and would never have won an award from Transparency International. But he let reporters record his meeting with President Obama in 2009, when Mr. Obama made a trip to Cairo for a landmark speech about the future of the Arab world that reads today like a trail of broken dreams. Even as the aging Mr. Mubarak fell from power  —   pushed partly by Mr. Obama in phone calls during the Tahrir Square protests  —   he showed some savvy about the Western news media. During one of his last visits to Washington, Mr. Mubarak invited me and afew other reporters to his hotel suite to talk about the Middle East’s future  —   and about his differences with the Obama administration. For those of us trying to divine the    workings of American foreign policy, there are certain accepted rituals that make up the everyday fabric of diplomatic reporting. The journalists on Mr. Kerry’s small plane  —   an older Boeing 757 that he despises  —   usually depart from the rear door, hop into a van that joins the back of his motorcade, and catch a glimpse of the start of most meetings. Sometimes, after these private chats, we are ferried back into a ceremonial room to ask questions, even uncomfortable ones. On rare occasions, we even receive answers. Tuesday in Vienna, where Mr. Kerry held talks on Syria, was typical: Two old American adversaries, happily or not, subjected themselves to our inquiries. First came Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia, who answered, and avoided, questions at a   news conference. Then Mr. Kerry traveled to the Coburg Palace, where he had negotiated the final stages of the Iran nuclear deal for a month last summer, to see Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif. I arrived there before the secretary, and Mr. Zarif came over for a handshake and a few jokes. He then answered a question about Iran’s complaints that companies and banks around the world are not returning to Tehran now that many sanctions have been lifted. Mr. Sisi took power in Egypt in 2013, after what was viewed by many around the world as a coup against Mohamed Morsi  —   who had been elected after Mr. Mubarak’s ouster  —   and led a crackdown in which more than 1, 000 Egyptians were killed and thousands more imprisoned. After the meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Kerry’s spokesman, Mark Toner, emailed State Department reporters with an official “readout. ” The two men had “discussed a range of bilateral and regional issues, including recent developments in Libya and Syria,” the statement said. Mr. Kerry had “also stressed the importance of Egypt’s role as a regional partner and reiterated U. S. commitment to help Egypt fight terrorism, increase economic growth, strengthen democratic institutions and bolster regional security. ” Such anodyne descriptions of these meetings, making no mention of the hard questions in the relationship, are exactly why reporters are expected to press American and foreign officials. But Mr. Sisi’s government seems to be avoiding questions even from its American benefactors. In its report, the Government Accountability Office said the Defense Department had been unable to conduct “  monitoring” on missiles and   devices before 2015. And even though the checks were done in 2015, the report said, the State Department had been unable to vet the training and equipping of the military for possible human rights violations. “State deemed G. A. O. ’s estimate of the percentage of Egyptian security forces that were not vetted to be sensitive but unclassified information, which is excluded from this public report,” it said. That made it difficult to know if the military aid the United States was now giving Egypt violated the   Leahy amendment, which links human rights performance to the delivery of American security equipment and training. I would have loved to ask Mr. Kerry and Mr. Sisi about that estimate at the presidential palace on Wednesday. If only reporters had been allowed in.