Another prominent Democrat has trashed Elie Wiesel  —   the Holocaust survivor, author, and Nobel Peace laureate who died on Saturday. Dorothy Reik, president of the Progressive Democrats of the Santa Monica Mountains and a member of the Los Angeles County Democratic Central Committee, wrote an email quoting a reference to Wiesel as a “Holocaust whore” and adding: “I had met people who made their livings from the holocaust [sic] but never to the extent that Wiesel did. ”[Reik had been defending Max Blumenthal, the virulently   writer and son of Hillary Clinton adviser Sid Blumenthal, who had tweeted: “Elie Wiesel is dead. He spent his last years inciting hatred, defending apartheid  palling around with fascists. ” Earlier this week, Hillary Clinton’s campaign distanced itself from Blumenthal’s statements.  In her email, Reik also wrote: Sadly I have to agree with Max Blumenthal. I hope that people on this list do not use this as an excuse to attack my friends and associates, most of whom probably do not agree with me. Why do I post this at all? Because I think it is the truth and so I am compelled to speak out so that we are wary of others who are honored as peacemakers but are not. In 2014, Reik, an   activist, was honored by local Democrats for her effort to “move the party in a progressive direction, focusing on electing Democrats who will move on such issues as the environment, economic justice, and peace. ” According to the Malibu Democratic Club, Reik “has taken a leading role in influencing policy in the Democratic Party. ” Reid  —   who, like Blumenthal, is Jewish  —   told the Los Angeles Daily News: “I apologize if I offended anyone. ” The     League’s Pacific Southwest Regional Director complained about Reik’s statements in an open letter to local Democratic Party leadership: “While the entire world is mourning the death of Nobel Laureate and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel  —   often called the conscience of the world  —   it is particularly disturbing that this Democratic Party official would share these vicious words, even expressed as her personal opinion. ” The mainstream media have largely ignored the controversy in the Clinton camp, while focusing on Donald Trump’s tweet of a   star, which some have called an antisemitic image. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, will be published by Regnery on July 25 and is available for   through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.