WASHINGTON  —   A man who approached the White House on Friday brandishing a gun was shot and wounded by a Secret Service agent, the agency’s spokesman said. The man, whose identity was not released, was taken into custody and treated at a nearby hospital. President Obama was away at the time, playing golf at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. He was told about the shooting, a White House official said. The episode began shortly after 3 p. m. Friday, when the man walked toward a security checkpoint on E Street, southwest of the White House. “The Secret Service Uniformed Division officers gave numerous verbal commands for the subject to stop and drop the firearm,” David A. Iacovetti, the deputy assistant director of government and public affairs for the Secret Service, said in a statement. “When the subject failed to comply with the verbal commands, he was shot once by a Secret Service agent and taken into custody. ” The agents recovered the gun, Mr. Iacovetti said. The shooting, in a   area near the National Mall crowded with tourists and other bystanders, was the latest in a string of security episodes involving the White House. In September 2014, a man who climbed over the fence on the north lawn eluded officers and made it through the front door of the White House before being apprehended. Several days later, the director of the Secret Service, Julia Pierson, was forced to resign. Since then, the Secret Service has significantly expanded training for officers and beefed up security around the fence. In this episode, the Secret Service said, the armed man did not penetrate the White House grounds. “No one within or associated with the White House was injured, and everyone in the White House is safe and accounted for,” an administration official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because she was not authorized to comment publicly about the incident. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was secured “within the White House complex” during the shooting, said Meghan Dubyak, a spokeswoman. Still, the White House and Treasury Department were placed on lockdown while the police investigated, interrupting an unusually sleepy spring afternoon at the White House. Mr. Obama, who is scheduled to leave on Saturday for a weeklong trip to Vietnam and Japan, decided to squeeze in a rare weekday round of golf with three close aides.