Rep. Darrell Issa ( ) joined Breitbart News Saturday on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 and discussed the Brexit vote with guest host Matthew Boyle, Breitbart’s Washington political editor, saying it was a “significant loss” for both President Obama and the presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton because they were behind the push for the United Kingdom (U. K.) to remain part of the European Union (EU). [Issa stressed that it was a big loss for Obama since he had travelled to Europe and actually made comments during a press conference with British Prime Minister David Cameron suggesting the relationship between the U. K. and other countries with trade wouldn’t be the same. “He wasn’t even truthful in what he was saying,” Issa said of Obama.  “The amazing thing was he went over there, tried to interfere and he got it exactly wrong, and the British got it right,” Issa explained. “As politicians, ultimately, we have to pick between two views or three views  …     you have to listen to everyone. ” “The president wasn’t listening to the Americans” or the British, Issa charged. “These people have been able to come from porous borders” from the Middle East, he said of the open border policy through the EU. “This grand experiment was beginning to fail for them,” he added, saying he believes the British made the right decision, just as the Americans made against King George III. “Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama have told the world that they’re listening and the world wants us to be without borders and globalized,” Issa said, saying Clinton and Obama are hearing this from their elitists. “Donald Trump, as much as he’s rubbed shoulders with the most powerful people  …     has never lost that ability to listen to people,” Issa contrasted. “Donald Trump is echoing what I believe the vast majority of Americans want,” to have politicians put their interests first. Breitbart News Saturday airs every Saturday from 10 a. m. EST until 1 p. m. eastern on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125. 