JERUSALEM  —   Israel’s defense minister abruptly announced his resignation on Friday, saying he had lost faith in Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and was “fearful for Israel’s future” after his job had apparently been offered to a rival in a   party. The minister, Moshe Yaalon, is a senior leader in Mr. Netanyahu’s conservative Likud Party, and quit amid the prime minister’s political maneuvering to broaden his governing coalition, which has only a   majority in Parliament. The   negotiations exploded into public view this week, with Mr. Netanyahu apparently having offered Mr. Yaalon’s job to the ultranationalist Avigdor Lieberman, though on Friday the prime minister said he was leaving the door open to make a deal with the   Zionist Union. There had been speculation that if Mr. Lieberman joined the government, Mr. Yaalon, who has been a stalwart member of Mr. Netanyahu’s team for years, would be offered the post of foreign minister as a sort of consolation prize. His announcement on Friday, on Facebook and  Twitter, put an end to that possibility. “This morning I informed the prime minister that following his management in the latest developments, and in light of my lack of faith in him, I am resigning from the government and the Knesset and taking time out from political life,” Mr. Yaalon wrote, using the Hebrew term for Parliament. In a news conference later, he said: “I viewed all my positions, both when I was in uniform and as a minister, as a mission, and I was unwilling to sacrifice national needs and the security of Israel’s citizens for the sake of political considerations or personal interest. ” Mr. Netanyahu seemed to confirm the speculation in a statement released on Friday in which he expressed regret over Mr. Yaalon’s departure. Mr. Yaalon “should have continued being a full partner in leadership of this country, as foreign minister,” Mr. Netanyahu said. “The reshuffle of portfolios did not stem from a lack of confidence between us but rather from the need to broaden the government. ” Mr. Netanyahu added, “I assume that if Yaalon had not been asked to leave the defense ministry,” the resignation would not have occurred. “There are political opportunities, particularly due to certain regional developments, which I personally strive towards continuously,” the prime minister said. “Therefore I took great efforts to have the Zionist Union join the government. Thus I am leaving the door open in the most serious manner for them to join. Such a move would do only good for the State of Israel. ” The addition of Mr. Lieberman to the government  —   which has been widely reported in the Israeli news media but not officially announced  —   would further cement the rightist nature of Mr. Netanyahu’s coalition. Mr. Yaalon, 65, is at the   of the political spectrum, but has served as a bulwark against the most extreme populist sentiments criticizing the military and the Likud coalition, by Mr. Lieberman and others. He said he planned to return someday to political life, including a run for state leadership. “I fought with all my might against phenomena of extremism, violence and racism in Israeli society that threaten its fortitude,” he said, adding that these forces “ are trickling into” the military. The contrast in military credentials between Mr. Yaalon and Mr. Lieberman could hardly be more pronounced. Mr. Yaalon, a former chief of staff and career general, led commando units and took part in daring operations. Mr. Lieberman left the military at the rank of corporal. He is known for   positions like demanding the death penalty for Palestinians convicted of terrorism and the toppling of Hamas, the militant group that rules Gaza. Mr. Yaalon came under fire for quickly condemning the actions of an Israeli soldier who shot and killed a wounded Palestinian assailant in the West Bank city of Hebron. Many Israelis viewed Mr. Yaalon’s immediate statement that the soldier should be brought to justice because he had violated military code as prejudging the case and troops at a time when they face violent attacks by Palestinians. Mr. Netanyahu at first took a similar stand, but he later called the soldier’s father, a move that was seen as offering support. “With great sorrow, senior politicians in the country have chosen incitement and divisiveness of the Israeli society instead of unifying and connecting,” Mr. Yaalon said. “It is unacceptable to me that we be divided because of cynicism or craving for control, and I expressed more than once my opinion on the matter  —   from a position of sincere worry for the future of Israeli society and future generations. ” Israeli Radio said the minister of immigration and absorption, Zeev Elkin, a member of Likud, had called on Mr. Yaalon to reconsider his resignation. Mr. Elkin said that Mr. Yaalon’s place was in Likud and that the prime minster’s moves should not be considered insulting to him. He added that political considerations had forced Mr. Netanyahu to make changes in the coalition government, and that Mr. Yaalon could have remained in another capacity. The minister for social equality, Gila Gamliel, also a Likud member, also expressed regret about Mr. Yaalon’s decision, calling his resignation a huge loss for the party. The resignation caps weeks of confusing negotiations by Mr. Netanyahu, and some analysts noted that Mr. Yaalon has had   tensions with the prime minister and could be biding his time to start a new party. “Certainly the other possibility is that he’s had it  —   with the intrigues, the backstabbing, the manipulations of politics,” said Gadi Wolfsfeld, a professor of political communications at the Interdisciplinary Center, a private college north of Tel Aviv, who is a frequent critic of Mr. Netanyahu. “In Israel, we play hardball politics,” Mr. Wolfsfeld said. “On the other hand, even on the scale of hardball, cynical politics, this was a shocker. ”