Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma vetoed a bill on Friday that would impose felony charges on doctors who perform abortions, calling the measure vague and unconstitutional. Ms. Fallin is a conservative Republican with a strong record of supporting restrictions on abortion, which she emphasized in a statement announcing her decision a day after the Legislature had passed the bill. But she acknowledged the virtual certainty that the bill would be struck down by the courts and said that the way to overturn Roe v. Wade was “the appointment of a conservative,   justice to the United States Supreme Court. ” The bill, which passed both houses of the   Legislature by wide margins, said doctors who performed abortions could be criminally charged and face prison terms of one to three years. It also said the state would revoke the medical license of any doctors who performed an abortion unless it was necessary to protect the life of the mother. Mainstream medical groups in Oklahoma and nationally had condemned the bill and called on Ms. Fallin to veto it. Legal groups defending abortion rights predicted a rapid challenge in state or federal courts. Because it would effectively ban abortion in the state, the bill would have been quickly blocked as unconstitutional, legal experts said. While the Supreme Court has allowed states to impose restrictions like waiting periods, it has firmly held that women have a right to an abortion until the fetus is viable outside the womb, around 24 weeks into pregnancy. The bill’s sponsor, Senator Nathan Dahm, had said he relished the chance to fight for it in court and hoped that it could lead to a reconsideration of abortion rights by the Supreme Court. Mr. Dahm said Friday that he was considering whether to seek an override of the governor’s veto, which would require a   majority in both houses of the Legislature. Liberty Counsel, a conservative Christian legal group based in Florida, had promoted the bill and said it would provide the state with free legal aid to defend it. On Friday, the group reacted angrily to Ms. Fallin’s veto and called for an override. “This is a despicable betrayal of her word and of innocent children whose lives will be cut short because of her cowardly act,” said Mat Staver, the chairman of Liberty Counsel. It was unclear on Friday whether the governor’s strongly worded rejection of the bill would dissuade legislators from seeking to save it. “The bill is so ambiguous and so vague that doctors cannot be certain what medical circumstances would be considered ‘necessary to preserve the life of the mother,’ ” Ms. Fallin said, adding that the bill could not survive a constitutional challenge.