BALTIMORE  —   They are Louisiana horsemen, Keith and Kent Desormeaux, who, as soon as they were able to walk, were strapped atop quarter horses and inexpensive thoroughbreds to race at bush tracks named Cajun Downs and Quarter Pole. Their father, uncles and neighbors placed bets on them while their mamas and aunts fingered rosary beads, praying they would not get hurt. They mostly came home safe, and when it was time to continue their racetrack education, they worked their way through their home tracks, Evangeline and Jefferson Downs, and bounced around other minor league outposts until they landed here in Maryland  —   Keith as an aspiring trainer, and Kent hoping to be a   jockey. So it felt right here Saturday when Keith gave Kent a leg up on a   colt by the name of Exaggerator that has run his heart out with enough regularity to have won four of his 10 starts, but lately had been chasing the back end and the legend of a   horse named Nyquist. In four previous races, Kent and Exaggerator had failed to get by Nyquist. That was nothing to be ashamed of  —   Nyquist was the reigning    champion, and he rolled into the 141st running of the Preakness Stakes undefeated in eight races. Not this time. Exaggerator outran Cherry Wine, who finished second, and Nyquist, who was third, to win the Preakness on a   track and end Nyquist’s bid for a Triple Crown. The Desormeaux brothers knew that this time, things were going to be different. It was a miserable day at   Pimlico Race Course, as a cold mist descended on an already drenched oval, transforming the racetrack into a soupy gumbo that was every bit as haunting as the swamps that they grew up near in southwest Louisiana. They loved it because in three previous races, Exaggerator had taken to a muddy track like   …     well   …     a duck to water. He had won two stakes on wet tracks. So when Kent Desormeaux, a Hall of Famer, edged his colt into the No. 5 gate, glanced inside and saw Mario Gutierrez aboard Nyquist, he knew that muddy track or not, his brother Keith had Exaggerator geared up and ready to go. This was only the second leg of the Triple Crown, but Nyquist had been so dominant in a brief but gaudy career that his camp, especially the trainer Doug O’Neill, was confident that they were pulling into New York three weeks from now intent on cracking into the history books alongside American Pharoah, last year’s Triple Crown champion. The Desormeaux brothers, however, were not the only ones determined to make Nyquist earn his honors  —   from the   Fernando Perez aboard Uncle Lino and Jevian Toledo aboard Awesome Speed harassed Gutierrez into pushing Nyquist to go faster than the colt wanted. “They had him surrounded,” said Kent Desormeaux, who had Exaggerator skipping over the puddles like a water scooter while Nyquist was fighting off his challengers through a wicked   of 46. 56 seconds and a taxing   of a mile in 1 minute 11. 97 seconds. Then something remarkable happened: Desormeaux saw a sliver of space along the rail turn into a   highway. The riders ahead of him were moving their horses outside. So Desormeaux squirted Exaggerator inside, and the colt shimmied up the backstretch like a seal, utterly enjoying it. In the clubhouse, Keith Desormeaux felt his heart drop. No, he felt worse than that. After decades of sharp words and bloodied knuckles, familial diplomacy had long been retired. “I wanted to strangle him,” he said of his brother. “All day, everyone was riding outside, and he’s taking my horse right into the quagmire. ” But Kent had done his homework in   and had determined not only that the rail offered the shortest distance between two points, but that the footing was firm and fast. When his rider asked Exaggerator to go, the colt looked as if he had grown a motor as he whipped around the far turn. A calming breath returned to Keith. “He is a Hall of Famer,” Keith conceded. As the contenders turned for home, Gutierrez felt Nyquist’s legs go out from underneath him. “I could feel Exaggerator coming,” he said. He asked for more, but the colt was wobbling. “There was nothing I could do,” Gutierrez said. So Kent Desormeaux vaulted his colt to the outside and rushed past Nyquist as if he were on a conveyor belt. The sight of another horse passing Nyquist roused the colt, and he fought back, mounting one last push. O’Neill locked in on his colt and prepared for a    stretch battle. For an instant, he thought Nyquist might come back. There was no chance. Desormeaux crossed his reins, chirped in Exaggerator’s ear and held on as his colt took off. It was over. Not only was Nyquist not catching Exaggerator, he was unable to hold off the   Cherry Wine for second place. “I didn’t think we could get beat,” O’Neill said. The Desormeaux brothers, on the other hand, knew they could not lose. The record will show Exaggerator completed the     race in 1:58. 31 and earned a $900, 000   check for his owners, Big Chief Racing L. L. C. and raised his career earnings to nearly $3 million. Those who believed in the colt collected $7. 20 for a $2 bet. But that was nothing to the charge that the result put into two brothers who had blossomed from the bush tracks of Louisiana to the old racetrack that had given them their first taste of the big time. It was hardly old hat for Kent  —   even if this was his third Preakness victory  —   but it was the first Triple Crown win for his brother. Neither Kent nor Keith is an affectionate sort, and by their own admission, they bicker and fight more than they share kind words and warm embraces. “I got a fist pump,” Keith said of their postrace celebration. “When you know the type of love we have in our family,” he added, “you really don’t have to show it. ”