Up to 100 schoolchildren as young as 12 attacked one another with bats, knives and blocks of concrete in a mass brawl in a park in east London. [The fight, which happened in the neighbourhood of Erith in the London borough of Bexley, resulted in seven arrests and on two people being taken to hospital, with witnesses describing the scene as “absolute pandemonium”. Police were even forced to intervene with helicopters and dogs to break up to brawl.  The children involved are believed to be aged from 12 to 19, with some wearing school uniform during the fight. Footage shows youths punching and kicking a teenager who had been knocked to the ground, some of them apparently armed with sticks. Sharon McHattie, landlady of the nearby Duchess of Kent pub, told reporters it was a “miracle” no one was killed, adding: “It was definitely premeditated. It was not just spur of the moment. “They all had their hoods up and balaclavas on. How they never got killed I don’t know. They were all standing in the middle of the street. “They were seen carrying big knives. One of our customers saw one with a bat. ” Another witness, who asked not be named, told London’s Evening Standard: “It was just absolute pandemonium. There were kids screaming at each other. ” “It was just scary,” she added. “It was school kids, basically, all in their uniforms, with hoods up and lots with their faces covered up. Some had knives and bats and who knows what. “There were a hell of a lot of people very concerned about it. People were out there with their children and dog walkers who didn’t know which way to go. “It shouldn’t be happening but it did happen and there’s nothing Joe Bloggs can do about it. ” A spokesman for London’s Metropolitan Police said: “Two individuals suffered   threatening injuries. They were taken to a south London hospital by London Ambulance Service to be treated for their injuries. “Officers are still in the area to provide reassurance. “Around six individuals were arrested and are in custody at south London police stations. ”