The mental competency of the ailing    media mogul Sumner M. Redstone is, once again, at the center of a bitter dispute. Viacom and its chief executive, Philippe P. Dauman, fired back with everything they had on Saturday, attempting to discredit a sudden move by Mr. Redstone to change succession plans for his $40 billion media empire. Not only did Mr. Dauman and two Viacom directors raise questions related to Mr. Redstone’s competency, but they also declared that Mr. Redstone had been manipulated and used by his daughter. The renewed scrutiny over Mr. Redstone’s capacity came less than two weeks after a California judge dismissed a case on a similar issue without ruling on whether Mr. Redstone was mentally competent. It was sparked by an unexpected development on Friday, in a family and corporate tale that becomes messier by the week. Mr. Redstone ousted Mr. Dauman from the trust that will control his companies when he dies or is declared incompetent. He did so after expressing dissatisfaction with the performance of Viacom, according to a lawyer working on behalf of Mr. Redstone. Mr. Dauman was also removed from the board of National Amusements, the private theater chain company through which Mr. Redstone controls both Viacom and CBS. Also ousted from both positions was George Abrams, a   representative of Mr. Redstone, a Viacom director for 29 years and an ally of Mr. Dauman. The development set off a new round in a   battle pitting Mr. Dauman, Mr. Redstone’s longtime confidant, against Shari Redstone, Mr. Redstone’s once ostracized, recently reconciled daughter. Ms. Redstone has publicly opposed Mr. Dauman’s leadership at Viacom, and his removal from the trust is a significant victory in her effort to shape the future of her father’s companies. Ms. Redstone is vice chairman of Viacom and CBS and is one of seven members on the trust. But in biting language on Saturday, Viacom executives and directors joined forces to depict the ousting of Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams as a shameful attempt by Ms. Redstone to influence her father and gain control of his companies. They also portrayed Mr. Redstone as being in such failing health as to be unable to make such a decision. Carl Folta, a spokesman for Viacom, said in a statement that Mr. Redstone had been unduly influenced by his daughter “to accomplish her   goal, which Mr. Redstone has always opposed, of gaining control of National Amusements and Viacom. ” Mr. Folta said the move to oust Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams was “completely inconsistent with his long expressed wishes and intent, and extremely disruptive and damaging to Viacom and all of its shareholders. ” For his part, Mr. Abrams said, “The Sumner Redstone I knew would never have taken this action. ” And Frederic V. Salerno, Viacom’s lead independent director, raised questions about Mr. Redstone’s competence, saying the board decided last week to eliminate Mr. Redstone’s compensation “based upon his recent complete lack of communication with the Viacom board and management team and his silence during recent board meetings, as well as recent public disclosures raising concerns about his health. ” In a statement on Saturday, Ms. Redstone said, “I fully support my father’s decisions and respect his authority to make them. ” Removing Mr. Dauman from the trust has raised the question of whether Mr. Redstone, or the trust after he dies, will move to oust Mr. Dauman as a director and as chief executive of Viacom. The company, the owner of the MTV, Comedy Central and Nickelodeon cable networks and the Paramount Pictures film and television studios, has suffered a 40 percent decline in its stock price over the last year and has reported persistent weak results. “Is Philippe Dauman dead man walking now?” asked Richard Greenfield, a media analyst with BTIG Research. Referring to Mr. Redstone, he said, “If he is competent enough to change the trust, he is competent enough to use his voting power to change management. ” Whether Mr. Dauman will pursue legal action is not clear. During the public sparring on Saturday, two questions persisted. Did Mr. Redstone have the capacity to eject Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams from their positions? And to what extent was Ms. Redstone involved? Mr. Redstone, who has not been seen publicly since his 92nd birthday party last May, will turn 93 on Friday. While he continues to control Viacom and CBS, much about his condition has been shrouded in mystery beyond the fact that he has suffered minor strokes and has a severe speech impediment. The transcript of videotaped testimony presented during the trial showed a fiery, if somewhat feeble man who responded to some basic questions but could not answer others, such as his birth name. If Mr. Redstone lacked the capacity to make corporate decisions, as Mr. Dauman asserted, analysts said that would raise questions about whether Mr. Redstone’s control should already have passed to the trust. Yet until Friday, neither Mr. Dauman nor Mr. Abrams, nor other directors of Viacom or CBS, publicly claimed that Mr. Redstone lacked mental capacity. In a declaration six months ago for the civil suit challenging Mr. Redstone’s mental capacity, Mr. Dauman described his boss as “engaged, attentive and as opinionated as ever. ” Mr. Redstone’s lawyers, in a statement issued Friday, sought to use Mr. Dauman’s own words against him. Citing his remarks, Michael C. Tu, a partner at the law firm Orrick, Herrington  Sutcliffe, said “that is exactly the Sumner Redstone who made these decisions. ” In his statement on behalf of Mr. Redstone, Mr. Tu said his client took “decisive and lawful action” to remove Mr. Dauman and Mr. Abrams from their positions after he had “expressed his concerns regarding Viacom’s performance to Messrs. Abrams and Dauman, both Viacom directors, and received no response from them. ” Mr. Folta of Viacom said that there had been no communication from Mr. Redstone and that the only contact came through “written communication on Tuesday from Mr. Tu, a lawyer previously unknown until this week to anyone associated with Sumner other than Shari Redstone. ” Mr. Folta added that during a Viacom board meeting on Tuesday evening and all day Wednesday, “not a sound was heard from Sumner, who was connected by phone,” and that Ms. Redstone, also connected by phone, “did not raise a single concern during the board session on any topic. ” Mr. Redstone engaged the new law firm after the suit challenging his capacity was dismissed on May 9. “Sumner had concerns related, as everybody knows, to the potential sale of Paramount and with respect to other corporate matters,” said Robert N. Klieger, a partner of the law firm Hueston Hennigan who represented Mr. Redstone during the suit over his competency. “I recommended to Sumner that he engage corporate counsel to represent him on those matters and helped facilitate getting Orrick on board to represent him. ” Mr. Folta and Mr. Salerno said that Ms. Redstone had denied Viacom directors access to her father. Dr. Brian Crowley, a psychiatrist in Washington who has frequently testified in civil and criminal trials at what he called the “intersection of psychiatry and law,” said there were two related issues in the situation: mental competency and “undue influence. ” “There is no rigid definition of civil competence,” he said. “Does he have the mental capacity to know what he’s doing? Does he have the ability to exercise judgment and free will?” While Mr. Redstone is a vulnerable person and may be subject to undue influence, not all influence is undue, Dr. Crowley said. “Have they used their influence to in effect meet their own needs, rather than to help him make his own decision?” he asked.