SAN FRANCISCO  —   When Jeremy Hitchcock raised money for his technology   in 2012, he barely had to break a sweat. He was flooded with emails from venture capitalists who wanted in. Two months after meeting an investor over cocktails at a technology conference, he scored $38 million. But last year, as valuations of tech   wobbled and public tech stocks gyrated, Mr. Hitchcock, 34, was faced with a different dynamic. As he tried to garner new capital for his company Dyn, which monitors and reroutes Internet traffic, potential investors peppered him with questions others had once glossed over. How would Dyn produce a return for them? Did Dyn have the size and scale to go public? Dyn announced this month that it had raised $50 million from a private equity firm. But as part of the discussion, Mr. Hitchcock, who has not run a public company, agreed to step down as chief executive so Dyn could find a leader skilled in developing a business. “The talks were much more thorough” with investors this time, Mr. Hitchcock said, adding that he had been thinking about resigning as chief executive before the   round. The balance of power is shifting across tech   land. Not long ago, entrepreneurs had the upper hand. With investors eager to get a piece of the next Uber or Airbnb, entrepreneurs often just lifted their little fingers to get financing. Some investors let the entrepreneurs choose their own terms, while others gave   paydays to   founders long before their companies were a success. Now investors have the advantage. Instead of venture capitalists begging to be allowed to invest, entrepreneurs are coming to them begging for cash. Investors are exerting their newfound power by asking more questions about a  ’s prospects and taking more time to invest. Some are pushing for management changes or for financing terms that would help cushion any losses they might face. “Venture capitalists are putting founders through everything short of a proctology exam before they invest,” said Venky Ganesan, a partner at Menlo Ventures, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm. The changing balance of power is evident in the numbers. Venture capitalists have put less money into   in the United States in the last two quarters, according to the National Venture Capital Association funding dropped 11 percent to $12. 1 billion in the first quarter from a year earlier. With a smaller capital pie, entrepreneurs have to work harder for a piece. Investors have also been better able to negotiate financing terms that benefit them. According to a survey from the law firm Fenwick  West, investors of richly valued   have been getting more provisions such as guaranteed payouts and minimum investment gains. Such terms are still relatively rare, but tend to become more common after the number and size of deals decline, said Barry Kramer, a Fenwick  West partner. Above all, investors are no longer paying any price to invest in a  . Since the beginning of this year, about 30 companies have had to settle for lower valuations than they previously received when they raised money, according to the research firm CB Insights. That is nearly as many as in all of 2015. “Investors have materially more time to do diligence than before,” said Ben Ling, a partner at venture capital firm Khosla Ventures. “Across our portfolio, even for the best companies,   is a longer process. ” Mr. Ling added that while particularly strong companies were being funded as always, valuations for others were generally flat to about 20 percent lower than this time last year. One   whose valuation was recently reduced was CARD. com, an online banking  . The Los   company closed a $5. 5 million financing round in February that valued it lower than its last funding round in December 2014, something known in industry parlance as a down round. Ben Katz, CARD. com’s chief executive, said it was growing by 3, 000 new accounts a day, had its first month with $1 million in revenue in February and should have $1 billion in new deposits this year. Even so, Mr. Katz, 37, was pragmatic about taking money at a lower valuation. “Entrepreneurs shouldn’t be too stressed by a down round as long as they are getting the capital they need to build their vision,” he said. Venture capital firms that might have invested outside of their comfort zone in boom times have now reverted to form, said Justin Langseth, chief executive of Zoomdata, a data analytics  . When he tried to raise money at the end of last year, many venture capitalists deemed Zoomdata, which is four years old, too big or too small for their liking, he said. “Before, they would have probably tried to stretch to accommodate a company of my size,” said Mr. Langseth, 41, who landed $25 million from a group led by Goldman Sachs in February. As venture capitalists have become pickier, some entrepreneurs are looking for money from nontraditional financiers. Jon Stein, who runs the financial advisory   Betterment, found that many venture capitalists were telegraphing that they wanted a piece of his company for a lower price. So he looked beyond venture capitalists, turning to a Swedish investment firm, Kinnevik, to lead his  ’s latest financing of $100 million. Mr. Stein, 36, said some   were postponing   in the hope that they would have more leverage later. “They’re trying to build more traction,” he said. With the shifting power balance come shifting messages from investors. Whereas investors once worshiped growth at nearly any cost at a   many are now more concerned about profitability, entrepreneurs said. Justin Yoshimura, 25, who invests in young companies and is chairman of the online jewelry business Ice. com, said his   had generally eschewed raising large amounts of money to control spending. Yet some investors in recent years encouraged him and the companies he has invested in to take a lot of money and spend it on marketing and other growth tactics. Now he is bemused to hear that investors are suggesting smaller rounds, less spending and a focus on not losing money. “Everyone told us we were wrong last year, that we needed to spend,” Mr. Yoshimura said. “Now when you say you’re profitable, everyone wants to invest. ”