News about Obamacare’s failings have peppered the news media recently. In the wake of these recent media reports, here are five devastating Obamacare facts every American should know. [Only six of the 23   launched nationwide remain, according to The Baltimore Sun.  The other 17 are closed or are in the process of winding down because they cannot “attract enough members, draw enough premium revenue and withstand the weight of new and costly regulatory hurdles created under the health reform law,” The Sun reported. In Minnesota, Breitbart News previously reported that the state is allowing Obamacare premiums to increase by at least 50 percent all the way up to 67 percent in order to keep insurers from leaving the exchanges due to financial losses. For tax returns for the year 2015, 8. 1 million Americans received fines from Obamacare’s individual mandate that averaged $210 per tax return, totaling $1. 7 billion, according to Investor’s Business Daily. Over the eight years of Obama’s presidency, high deductibles went from being the minority to becoming standard. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, 18 percent of covered workers in 2008 had a deductible of at least $1, 000, up from only 10 percent in 2006.  For workers with   plans at small firms, 35 percent had deductibles of $1, 000 or more in 2008, up from 16 percent in 2006. In 2016, 51 percent of all covered workers, and 65 percent of workers in small firms, face deductibles of at least $1, 000, TIME reported. “Workers at smaller firms must pay an average of $2, 069 out of pocket before insurance payments kick in, versus $1, 238 for workers at firms with 200 or more employees,” the article reported. Former president Bill Clinton called Obamacare “the craziest thing in the world” at a rally Tuesday. “So you’ve got this crazy system where all of a sudden 25 million more people have health care and then the people who are out there busting it, sometimes 60 hours a week, wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. It’s the craziest thing in the world,” Clinton said. The New York Times, in an article Sunday, even said the law has to change in order to be viable. In the wake of Obamacare’s disastrous overtaking of America’s healthcare system, progressives now say that the only way to fix the broken Obamacare system is for government to seize even more control and move toward a total takeover, or the   “public option. ” Yet with Americans suffering from facts like the five above, they will likely have little stomach for more of the same big government policies that created the mess in the first place.