A huge “Free Milo” chalk slogan was spotted on campus at the University Of California, Irvine today after Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos was banned from Twitter on Tuesday. [Yiannopoulos visited the college as part of his “Dangerous Faggot” tour in June, performing a speech on “Law and Order” while dressed in a camp sleeveless police uniform.   The UC Irvine College Republicans, who recently won a   battle with college administrators over their invitation of Milo, have taken responsibility for today’s chalking. Members of the College Republicans, including their President, Ariana Rowlands, posed for a photo next to the slogan. Rowlands also released a video statement, which can be watched below.  The UCI College Republicans have issued the following statement, calling on other free speech defenders to chalk similar slogans on their campuses: UCI College Republicans calls on all defenders and believers of Free Speech and equal treatment for all regardless of political philosophy, to demand that Twitter reinstate Milo Yiannopoulos and end its practice of censoring conservative speech. Twitter will permanently ban popular conservatives for jokes but will leave up ISIS accounts actively recruiting terrorists, and does not equally apply its rules and their punishments. Twitter claims to be the bastion of Free Speech in the social media world but Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey prioritizes political feuds and vendettas over public safety. Leslie Jones, the very person Jack Dorsey claimed to protect by banning Yiannopoulos has now received more backlash and negative comments as a result of the ban. At the end of the day, only one person wins from banning Milo Yiannopoulos from Twitter: Jack Dorsey. President Rowlands also released a longer statement in a post on Medium this Wednesday, quoted below. You can read the full version here. Yiannopoulos’ ban from Twitter prompted the hashtag #FreeMilo to trend at number one worldwide, and he has since been regarded by media as a martyr for free speech. Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.