An illegal alien from El Salvador, Mauricio   faces life in prison without parole after being convicted of stabbing acquaintance Oscar Navarro, father of two, “at least” 89 times with a   butcher knife and tearing out his liver with his bare hands  —   but no comments on this shocking murder by a foreign national, who smiled cheerfully in his mugshot, are allowed, according to the Washington Post. [Illegal alien   24, started by stabbing Navarro in the back before stabbing him in the face, then his head, and then his chest, according to prosecutors.  Standing before an image of the extremely gruesome murder scene, prosecutor Douglas Wink said   sawed through his victim’s body to tear out his liver and place it on his chest. “The defendant took the knife and sawed,” he said. “This man reached in with his bare hands and took out his liver. He probably thought it was his heart. He ripped out his liver and left it on his chest for the police to see. ” The Washington Post buried the fact that   is an illegal alien. Nice of WaPo to share this detail at Paragraphs 37 and 38. Too interesting! @kausmickey https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   tedfrank (@tedfrank) May 1, 2016,  They also shut down the comments section, explaining: “We turn off the comments on stories dealing with personal loss, tragedies or other sensitive topics. ” The murder took place in December 2014. “Should    ever get out of prison, every indication is that he would be deported to his native El Salvador,” The Washington Post reports in an aside. “Prosecutors earlier said he entered the United States illegally. And since his stay at the Montgomery County jail, immigration officials have lodged a detainer on him, an indication they would move to have him deported at the end of a prison sentence. ” If El Salvador decides they won’t take   back, should he ever be released, the U. S. would likely turn him loose onto American streets  —   thanks to the overreaching Supreme Court ruling, Zadvydas v. Davis (2001). As the Center for Immigration Studies writes: In order to eliminate what it considered the “constitutional threat” of the potentially indefinite detention of deportable aliens, the Court held that “once removal is no longer reasonably foreseeable, continued detention is no longer authorized by statute. ” The Court then arbitrarily decided that six months was all that was necessary for determining an alien’s deportability  …     Put simply, a reviewing court’s definition of “reasonably foreseeable” now determines the release of deportable aliens back onto the streets. So, should   be freed from prison before his life sentence concludes and El Salvador refuses to welcome him back, it’s only six months until he’s free to haunt American neighborhoods once more.   of the entire population of El Salvador currently resides in America, according to the Migration Policy Institute.