U. S. Senate candidate Kelli Ward called on Republicans to fight back against Democratic presumptive presidential nominee Hillary Clinton in the wake of the FBI’s findings and recommendation not to indict Clinton over what it called “extremely careless” handling of national security information. [“Hillary’s reckless disregard for national security information deserves handcuffs, not a slap on the wrist. Anyone else would have been indicted already,” said the former Arizona State Senator. “Bill Clinton and Loretta Lynch must have had a very substantive discussion of grandchildren and golf during their chance encounter on the runway here in Phoenix. ”  Last week the former Secretary of State Clinton’s husband, former President Bill Clinton, met privately with U. S. Attorney General Lynch aboard the plane she was traveling in while it was parked at a Phoenix airport. The former President was considered a potential witness in the FBI’s investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server over which she sent top secret information. Lynch claims she and Bill Clinton didn’t discuss the case, but rather grandchildren and a former Attorney General. The meeting was made public when a local reporter was tipped off and broadcast the news. Ward said of the FBI’s recommendation not to indict Clinton, “However, since the decision has been made, it is time for Republicans to further make the case against Hillary by fighting her long record of bad ideas with better ones. ” Ward added: Hillary’s vision of America involves a bigger Obamacare, reduced economic freedoms, more debt, and more abortion. Hillary’s vision would roll back the clock on the amazing progress and prosperity that capitalism has achieved for all of us in recent centuries, especially women. As a     conservative woman, I look forward to facing off against Ann Kirkpatrick and Hillary Clinton and exposing their   agenda for what it is: the real war against women. Ward is challenging Sen. John McCain in Arizona’s August primary election. In a    matchup, the two are tied in May polling  . U. S. Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick is also seeking to replace McCain, but from the Democratic Party. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 