A left wing expert on Salafism has suggested that Germany has no real culture and that Syrians should be allowed their own city rather than be forced to integrate into German society. [Expert on Salafism and Green party member Kurt Edler is proposing a radical idea on how the German government should handle the integration of Syrians and other migrants into German society.  Mr. Edler contends that Germany has no real culture to speak of and that the migrants shouldn’t have to integrate and instead he claims they should be afforded their own city in an area like Vorpommern reports, Die Welt.  Mr. Edler admits after the attempted bombing in Leipzig and other terror attacks in Wurzburg and elsewhere, that Islamism has formally arrived in Germany. Speaking on the need for migrants to integrate into Germany he said, “the indigenous people themselves have completely disintegrated. The common word is dominant culture. There is none. There are lifestyle milieus. ” Since there is no common culture, according to Edler, there should be no problem in simply creating what he calls a “New Aleppo” in somewhere like German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s home state of  . The Chancellor is still reeling from the  recent regional election loss to the   migration Alternative for Germany (AfD). On the subject of the AfD Edler said support for the party was a reaction to the mass experience of “social modernization. ” The new Syrian city would foster a sense of community that Edler says those in the West have given up on. “Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has said a wise phrase: ‘There is no society’. Indeed” he said. Adding that the concept of a homeland, the German word heimat, and notions of the West were “pseudo utopias” he added “the West has long since perished. ” The idea of separate cities fro Muslims has been floated before by a German academic named Ulrike Guérot who also agrees with Edler that the idea of “dominant culture” is “Fascistic. ” The agreement of the two academics shows that the ideas may have growing prominence in German academic circles. On the notion of young radical Muslims Edler echoed comments made by French scholar Gilles Kepel who called the third generation of Muslims the “Jihad Generation” due to the rising popularity of Salfism among them. Kepel warned these young people could be taking Europe down the path of future civil war. Mr. Edler is more optimistic about the future of young Muslims claiming that Salafism will likely dissipate over time. “Much of what we experience as juvenile Salafism is a fashion and subculture,” he said. Part of the reason for this, he claims, is that the Islamic State is losing territory and battles proving that they aren’t the invincible warriors they portray in their propaganda. Many experts, police and security agencies are fearful of the rise of radicalism in Muslim youths. Polls have shown that the rise in radicalisation among young Muslims is a growing trend and few have the answers to reversing it.  