LOS ANGELES  —   Gov. Jerry Brown of California has run three times for president. He is serving his fourth term as governor and stands as one of the most popular elected officials in the state. He has also kept a noticeably low profile as the Democratic presidential primary contest has moved to California, reflecting what aides described as the interest he had in both candidates. But that ended on Tuesday as the Democratic governor came off the sideline and endorsed Hillary Clinton as someone who has the “tenacity and skill to advance the Democratic agenda” and defeat the presumptive Republican candidate, Donald J. Trump. “Democrats have shown  —   by millions of votes  —   that they want her as their nominee,” he said in an open letter to Democrats and to independents, who are permitted to vote in the Democratic primary on June 7. Mr. Brown’s decision is the latest sign that California is shaping up as a climactic end to the Democratic nominating session. Mrs. Clinton and her opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, have turned their attention to a state where Mrs. Clinton had once been confident of victory, and where one poll last week showed the two candidates essentially tied. On Tuesday, Mr. Sanders continued plowing through a heavy schedule of rallies in California, many in parts of the state where national candidates do not often go. Mrs. Clinton has scaled back plans to campaign in New Jersey to add additional events in the state, with a focus on Southern California, where she will be counting on minority voters to propel her. Nonetheless, she told MSNBC on Tuesday that she was “feeling very positive” about California. “We are competing everywhere, but I have been struck by some of the challenges California faces,” Mrs. Clinton said, criticizing Mr. Trump for denying the state’s drought. Mr. Sanders is spending about $1. 8 million on advertising in California, and Mrs. Clinton about $1 million, according to Kantar  . That is not a lot of money in a state like California, where a robust media campaign can easily cost $5 million to $10 million a week. Both candidates are concentrating their advertising campaigns, focusing on places like Fresno, Sacramento and Los Angeles. Mr. Sanders, after giving a speech on health care in Emeryville, across the bay from San Francisco, told reporters Tuesday that he was not surprised by Mr. Brown’s decision, noting that governors and other elected Democrats had repeatedly endorsed Mrs. Clinton, a former senator from New York and secretary of state. “I like Jerry Brown, but people can make their own choices,” Mr. Sanders said. “What we have had to do, and we have done pretty well in every state in this country, is taken on Democratic governors, taken on Democratic senators, taken on Democratic members of the House, Democratic mayors and all of their political apparatus. And yet we have won in 20 states, and I think we are going to win here in California. ” Mr. Brown, in his letter, offered strong praise for Mr. Sanders, noting the similarities between the Sanders campaign and the one Mr. Brown waged when he ran for president in 1992. “He has driven home the message that the top 1 percent has unfairly captured way too much of America’s wealth, leaving the majority of people far behind,” he wrote. “In 1992, I attempted a similar campaign. ” Still, the governor, who lost to Bill Clinton in a contest that left lingering bitterness between the two men, offered a powerful case against Mr. Trump in arguing that Mrs. Clinton had proved not only that she had abundant support among Democrats, but the ability to win in November. Mr. Brown met privately with Mrs. Clinton in San Francisco and Mr. Clinton in Sacramento last week. Mr. Trump, Mr. Brown noted in his letter, “has called climate change a ‘hoax’ and said he will tear up the Paris Climate Agreement. ” “He has promised to deport millions of immigrants and ominously suggested that other countries may need the nuclear bomb. He has also pledged to pack the Supreme Court with only those who please the extreme right,” Mr. Brown wrote. “The stakes couldn’t be higher,” he added. Even if she loses here, Mrs. Clinton will almost certainly have enough delegates to win the nomination. But a loss in the largest state  —   and in a Democratic stronghold  —   would not only provide a dark end to what has been at times an unhappy campaign, but might also empower Mr. Sanders to stay in the race, further delaying the point when Mrs. Clinton can turn her full attention to Mr. Trump. To win the nomination, Mr. Sanders would have to persuade hundreds of   superdelegates  —   party officials and leaders like Mr. Brown  —   to switch their allegiance in time for the July convention. Winning California, his aides say, can help him make that case. Tad Devine, a senior adviser to Mr. Sanders, said the senator would campaign heavily through Primary Day, going to parts of the state where he knows he can draw huge crowds and television coverage. “We think we have a very narrow path to get there,” Mr. Devine said of winning the nomination, “and California is the most important piece of that puzzle. ” A poll last week showed the two candidates essentially tied in the state. But many analysts say this is a difficult contest to poll, because there has been a huge   surge in registration and because it is challenging to project how many independents, who have favored Mr. Sanders, will actually participate.