Authorities have arrested one the top leaders of the Los Zetas who had been hiding out in Houston. The capture comes as the cartel continues to undergo a fierce internal civil war that has spread violence throughout the Mexican border state of Tamaulipas. [Breitbart Texas has spoken with various law enforcement sources at the local, state and federal level to confirm that U. S. Homeland Security Investigations agents based in Houston and Laredo arrested Jose Francisco “Comandante Kiko” Treviño on Wednesday evening in Houston. Treviño is expected to go before a judge on Thursday morning.   Law enforcement spokesmen with various federal agencies would not confirm nor deny the capture of Treviño, however sources with direct knowledge of law enforcement operations in Texas confirmed the arrest to Breitbart Texas.  As Breitbart Texas has been reporting for more than 11 months, two rival factions of the Los Zetas cartel have been fighting for control of lucrative drug trafficking routes and territories. The battles between the two factions has resulted in a massive spike in violence throughout the Mexican state of Tamaulipas.  While Treviño’s reasons for traveling to Houston remain unknown, in the past, various cartel commanders have sought refuge in the U. S. when fleeing certain death at the hands of their rivals in Mexico.  In October 2014, Breitbart Texas broke the news about the capture Gulf Cartel boss Juan Francisco “Comandante Panochitas or Commander Pussy” Saenz Tamez in the border city of Edinburg, Texas.  Soon after the arrest of Saenz Tamez, authorities captured two other top cartel commanders in the Lone Star State. At the time of the multiple arrests, the Gulf Cartel had been going through a series of internal conflicts similar to the ones that Los Zetas are currently facing. Ildefonso Ortiz is an award winning journalist with Breitbart Texas. He   the Cartel Chronicles project and you can follow him on Twitter and on Facebook. This article has been updated to include additional information. 