WASHINGTON  —   Hillary Clinton’s chief of staff at the State Department said in sworn testimony released Tuesday that Mrs. Clinton’s advisers gave little thought to the problems her private email server might create if they were forced to turn over her communications under public records law. “Certainly from my standpoint, I wish that had been something we thought about,” Cheryl D. Mills, who was chief of staff when Mrs. Clinton was secretary of state, testified in a deposition on Friday in a lawsuit against the State Department brought by a conservative legal group. Ms. Mills’s comments  —   contrite at times, defensive at others  —   represented the first sworn public accounting from a member of Mrs. Clinton’s inner circle about the controversy over her exclusive use of a private email account during her State Department tenure. The issue, which has dogged her presidential campaign for more than a year, flared up again last week after the release of a highly critical investigation by the State Department’s inspector general that found Mrs. Clinton was not authorized to use the private server. Mrs. Clinton declined to be interviewed for that inquiry. Ms. Mills insisted during nearly seven hours of testimony that Mrs. Clinton’s use of the private clintonemail. com account, housed on a server in her home, was “absolutely not” an attempt to evade the Freedom of Information Act, as many of her critics have charged. She acknowledged, however, that the account was tightly held. Unless Mrs. Clinton emailed other officials first from her account, they had to go through gatekeepers in Mrs. Clinton’s office to get her email address. Even top officials like Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff in 2009 and 2010, had to request the address. But Ms. Mills also said that the private account was no secret. She estimated that Mrs. Clinton shared emails with about 100 State Department officials from her private account. “So her use of her email was not something that was unknown,” she said. Her deposition came in a private lawsuit brought by Judicial Watch, a conservative legal advocacy group. Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, who was appointed by President Bill Clinton, has allowed the group to take sworn testimony from at least a   officials to explore how and why the private email server was used  —   a decision that the judge has said “boggles the mind. ” Ms. Mills’s lawyer, Beth A. Wilkinson, repeatedly clashed with the Judicial Watch lawyers, saying their questions were beyond the scope of what the judge had allowed. But Ms. Mills, who like Mrs. Clinton refused to be interviewed by the State Department’s inspector general, voiced no apparent irritation over her lengthy deposition and told lawyers for Judicial Watch that she wanted to be helpful, according to a transcript. Under questioning, Ms. Mills detailed how Mrs. Clinton came to use the private server, and what her aides did to facilitate the unusual arrangement. She said that Mrs. Clinton never considered using an official government email address and made clear from the start of her tenure in 2009 that she wanted to use a personal email address, Ms. Mills said. She described that decision as “a continuation of a practice that she had been using as a senator” before becoming secretary of state. Ms. Mills said repeatedly that she could not recall any specific discussions in Mrs. Clinton’s office about how to preserve her emails to ensure that they would be available when the State Department responded to requests under the Freedom of Information Act, the law passed after Watergate to encourage government transparency. She said she assumed that the emails Mrs. Clinton sent to officials with department email accounts would be “captured” automatically and saved. At the same time, she acknowledged that Mrs. Clinton periodically emailed officials at their personal accounts  —   records that would not have shown up in the State Department system. Ms. Mills testified that she routinely complied with records requests under the law, known as FOIA, but that a separate office dealt with the requests. She said she did not recall any instances in which she discussed the requirements regarding those requests, even when shown an email from Stephen D. Mull, who was executive secretary in Mrs. Clinton’s office from 2009 to 2012, about the issuance of a State Department BlackBerry. “We will prepare two version for her to use, one with operating State Department email account which would mask her identity but which would also be subject to FOIA requests,” wrote Mr. Mull, who is also scheduled to testify in the Judicial Watch lawsuit. The State Department’s inspector general documented one episode in 2010 in which a top information management official, John Bentel, told two unnamed specialists in his office “never to speak of the secretary’s personal email system again” after they had raised concerns about the private email arrangement. Asked whether anyone had raised concerns that Mrs. Clinton’s emails would not show up in public records requests, Ms. Mills said: “I’m not aware of it. They might have. ” She said repeatedly that she wished she and other advisers had given more thought to the issue.