SAN ANTONIO (AP)  —   The Golden State Warriors got an historic victory in the one place they hadn’t won in nearly two decades.  Stephen Curry had 37 points and the Warriors beat the San Antonio Spurs   Sunday night for their 72nd win, tying the   Chicago Bulls for the season record. The Warriors will finish their regular season at home against the Memphis Grizzlies on Wednesday night. The Spurs had won 48 consecutive   games at home, including an   39 straight to begin this season. Golden State ended a   skid in San Antonio that dated to 1997. San Antonio sat Tim Duncan for rest and was without an injured Boris Diaw. It had not lost at home since March 2015. The Warriors dominated the fourth quarter. Curry controlled the action with a series of layups when San Antonio’s defense attempted to run him off the   line. In their lone victory over Golden State this season, the Spurs managed to slow the game down. San Antonio tried to match the Warriors’ pace Sunday, though, leading to a tense and at times sloppy game. LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points to lead the Spurs, who have lost three straight for the first time this season. Kawhi Leonard added 20 points but shot 7 for 22 from the field while continually being harried by Draymond Green. Green got a technical for charging directly toward Monty McCutcheon at the scorer’s table after the official ruled he fouled Leonard in the first half. With Andrew Bogut screaming from the Warriors’ bench for teammates to grab Green, the Warriors’ energetic forward followed McCutcheon across the court to continue his argument. A second technical was not issued. Green finished with 11 points and Klay Thompson added 14 for Golden State.   Warriors: Golden State’s previous victory in San Antonio was Feb. 14, 1997. Latrell Sprewell had 32 points in leading the Warriors to a   victory. The Spurs were without injured David Robinson and were months away from drafting Duncan.   …     Curry made a   in his 151st straight   game, extending his own NBA record. Curry was 4 for 9 on   and also banked in a shot from the opposite   line to close the third quarter, but the attempt came after the buzzer. Spurs: Duncan has missed 20 games this season, including 10 for rest. San Antonio is   without Duncan, who turns 40 on April 25.   …     Duncan averaged 2. 5 points, 2. 5 rebounds and 13. 5 minutes in two games against Golden State this season. He missed the team’s initial meeting with a sore right knee.   …     San Antonio trailed for only 11:13 in 468 minutes played in the fourth quarter entering Sunday’s game. UP NEXT, Warriors: Host Memphis on Wednesday night. Spurs: At Oklahoma City on Tuesday night.