Connie Kopelov, whose wedding to Phyllis Siegel in 2011 was the first legal   marriage in New York City, died in Manhattan on Saturday. She was 90. Her death was confirmed by Ms. Siegel, who said Ms. Kopelov had been in the late stages of Alzheimer’s disease. Ms. Kopelov and Ms. Siegel had been partners for 23 years when they were married by the city clerk on July 24, 2011  —   the same day that a state law took effect allowing   couples to marry. That morning, Ms. Kopelov, then 85, and Ms. Siegel, 76, were the first couple through the door of the marriage bureau, on Worth Street in Lower Manhattan. The City Council speaker at the time, Christine C. Quinn, a lesbian and prominent gay rights activist, stood in attendance around 9 a. m. as the clerk, Michael McSweeney, said, “I now pronounce you married. ” Ms. Siegel held Ms. Kopelov’s head and kissed her on the left cheek. Ms. Kopelov smiled and held her marriage license aloft. “I lost my breath,” Ms. Siegel said in March, recalling the moment. “It was just the most exciting loss of breath I’ve ever had. I just was so happy. ” From that day on, Ms. Siegel said, people would stop them on the street and congratulate them. Constance Kopelov was born on April 14, 1926, in the industrial city of Kokomo, Ind. to Samuel and Bessie Kopelov. She graduated from Northwestern University in 1947 with a bachelor’s degree in political science and later earned a master’s from Goddard College in Vermont in 1974. In 1955 she moved from Chicago to New York City, where she held positions in  union organizations, including the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America and the Workers Defense League. Her work often focused on women’s issues, and she taught courses on women’s labor history at Cornell University and New York University. “She was always fighting for an issue,” Ms. Siegel said. “She was always for the underdog. ” Besides her wife, Ms. Kopelov is survived by a sister, Deborah Dorosin. Ms. Kopelov and Ms. Siegel met in the   through their involvement with an advocacy group, Services and Advocacy for GLBT Elders. New York State’s legalization of   marriage followed a multiyear legislative battle that ended with the State Senate’s narrow approval of the Marriage Equality Act in June 2011. The law took effect one month later, on a Sunday, after which hundreds of gay and lesbian couples turned up at town halls and city clerks’ offices across the state. New York became the sixth and largest state to allow   couples to wed, a milestone that energized   advocates as they pushed their campaign across the country. Last year, the Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution guarantees all Americans, including   couples, a right to marriage. In 2012, just shy of their first wedding anniversary, Ms. Kopelov and Ms. Siegel were honored as grand marshals of New York City’s Gay Pride Parade, along with the singer Cyndi Lauper and Chris Salgardo, the president of the cosmetics company Kiehl’s. The couple were chauffeured down Fifth Avenue in a lime green convertible.