With characteristic subtlety, intelligence and insight, the New York Times has lumbered into the Brexit debate and   its   readership with a piece heavy hinting that thanks to Nigel Farage Britain is the new Nazi Germany. [Let’s examine its argument in more detail, starting with the headline. I’ve put the New York Times’s words in bold my comments appear below.  Britain Asks if Tone of ‘Brexit’ Campaign Made Violence Inevitable, New York Times Journalist States that Tone of ‘Brexit’ Campaign Made Violence Inevitable, taking lead from   Remain activists and commentators whose biased opinions he   to support his threadbare thesis. On the specific subject of ‘Tone’ see also: ‘Tone’  —   the  ’s codeword for ‘I hate free speech’ As the shock of the brutal murder of a young member of Parliament began to subside on Friday, there was a growing sense in Britain that something ominous had been unleashed in the country. Whence grew this ‘growing sense’? The only people actually promulgating this line are     activists who’ve seen a    opportunity in the crisis of a   ’s senseless, brutal murder. Most normal people would much prefer it if Britain’s democratic future were debated on more relevant issues. The increasingly ugly   tone to the campaign  This is not a fact but a   propaganda trope. Sure there have been odd lapses of taste, notably the somewhat crass Breaking Point poster. But for most of this referendum campaign the nastiness has been confined to the Remain side  —   whose Project Fear has been characterised by mendacity, ad hominems, snobbery and bullying. Leave, on the other hand, have sought to keep their tone as upbeat and positive as possible as have UKIP and Nigel Farage. This is because they have been alive to the possibility that their respectable position on controlled immigration will inevitably be misrepresented by the left as xenophobia and racism. So what Erlanger is doing here isn’t journalism but propaganda: stating as fact something he might wish to be so but for which he can demonstrate little evidence other than hearsay from   commenters. Coupled with the violence of English fans at the European soccer championships  …     The   mark of English football violence was thirty years ago. Either Erlanger doesn’t know this  —   in which case why he is commenting on UK affairs?  —   or he is being deliberately misleading. It would be really odd if the outcome of a referendum campaign on the future of 60 million Britons were to be decided on the basis of a single lapse in taste by some teenage marketing copywriter in Scotland.