Iranian dictator Ali Khamenei threatened the United States with a “punch in the mouth” should America interfere in next month’s elections in Tehran. [Up for grabs in the coming February election are slots in the Parliament and in the Assembly of Experts. Khamenei’s position as “Supreme Leader” remains with ultimate authority and with no checks on his power. He can unilaterally issue extrajudicial decrees without the consent or approval of any political figures.  Iran’s Guardian Council, another extrajudicial body, which is controlled by the Supreme Leader, is currently filtering out which of the 12, 000 registered candidates will be allowed to run in the coming elections. Only those deemed “qualified” by the council may run for office. So even as   “reformers” and “moderates” attempt to seek a position in the majles, those who do not follow the standards set by Iran’s dictator never make it on the ballot. Khamenei told a meeting of prayer leaders on Monday that attempts by “enemies” to influence the election will not succeed. “Americans have set their eyes covetously on elections but the great and vigilant nation of Iran will act contrary to the enemies’ will, whether be it in elections or on other issues, and as before will punch them in the mouth,” he said, according to AFP. The United States will attempt to interfere so they can push “their own goals rather than Iran’s goals of the revolution,” Khamenei added. Iran’s Islamic revolution came in 1979, following the overthrow of a secular monarch, which resulted in the implementation of an Islamic theocracy under Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Ali Khamenei would later assume the mantle following Khomeini’s death in 1989. “Those who have access to information know what traps have been laid or are being laid for the country in order (for them) to infiltrate the nation’s will and decisions,” Khamenei added. “We must be vigilant with regards to infiltration,” he said, comparing rogue voices to “termites who would gnaw and weaken (Iran’s) foundations from within,” according to AFP. Khamenei’s bombastic statements follow the White House’s folding on planned sanctions against the Islamic Republic. Last week, the Obama administration announced the United States would shortly be imposing sanctions against Iran after its military fired off ballistic missile tests, in violation of international sanctions. The administration, however, has backed down from implementing any sanctions.