As Planned Parenthood celebrates its centennial anniversary on October 16, corporate watchdog 2ndVote updates its list of direct donors to the abortion business. [“Of Planned Parenthood’s $1. 3 billion in yearly revenue, over 25% comes from private donations, including corporate contributions,” 2ndVote observes.  Planned Parenthood performs over 300, 000 abortions annually and also receives more than a half billion taxpayer dollars each year. The following companies directly fund the abortion business: Adobe, American Express, Avon, Bank of America, Bath  Body Works, Ben  Jerry’s, Boeing, Clorox, Converse, Deutsche Bank, Dockers, Energizer, Expedia, ExxonMobil, Fannie Mae, Groupon, Intuit, Johnson  Johnson, La Senza, Levi Strauss, Liberty Mutual, Macy’s, March of Dimes, Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, Nike, Oracle, PepsiCo, Pfizer, Progressive Insurance, Starbucks, Susan G. Komen, Tostitos, Unilever, United Way, Verizon, Wells Fargo, A list of companies that support   organizations that fund Planned Parenthood is located here. As Newsbusters notes, the liberal media that provide cover for Planned Parenthood will likely ignore  —   or celebrate  —   the corporate donors to the abortion business. The same media, nevertheless, are quick to publish the names of companies and individuals who support traditional marriage and refer to them as “ . ” Throughout the past year, Planned Parenthood has been defending itself against allegations that it sells the body parts of babies it aborts in its clinics for profit. The abortion business has been under congressional investigation since the release of undercover videos that exposed its alleged practice of harvesting the organs of aborted babies for sale. Though Planned Parenthood has denied any wrongdoing in its sale of body parts, the organization also released a statement in October of 2015 announcing it will no longer accept payments for aborted fetal tissue. The abortion business and its leftwing media supporters continue to insist the videos, produced by Center for Medical Progress, were “deceptively edited. ” However, a Democratic opposition research firm named Fusion  —   hired by Planned Parenthood itself to review the videos  —   said, while their analysts observed the videos had been edited  —   as all videos are  —   “the analysis did not reveal widespread evidence of substantive video manipulation. ” Additionally, Fusion noted, “[A]nalysts found no evidence that CMP inserted dialogue not spoken by Planned Parenthood staff. ” An analysis by Coalfire, a   forensics company hired by Alliance Defending Freedom, found that the videos were “not manipulated” and that they are “authentic. ” A recent Marist College Institute for Public Opinion poll found a full 81 percent of Americans favor some restrictions on abortion  —   including limiting the procedure after the first three months  —   and a continued ban on public funding of abortion. In the survey of 1, 700 Americans, even 66 percent of respondents who identify themselves as   say, “Abortion should be allowed, at most, in the first trimester, in cases of rape, incest or to save the life of the mother, or never permitted. ” According to 2ndVote’s website, the organization describes itself as the “conservative watchdog for corporate activism. Launched in 2013 after “learning that March of Dimes donations were being funneled to Planned Parenthood,” founder Dr. David Black continued his mission to investigate other leftwing groups that were being funded by consumer purchasing of products and donations.