New Jersey Governor Chris Christie is raising new questions about Donald Trump’s leadership  —   after the billionaire decided to skip tonight’s Fox News debate. [Speaking to voters last night, Christie accused Trump of acting like a teenager instead of a leader who was ready for the White House.  Christie argued that Trump’s fight with Fox News symbolized what kind of president he would be. “What’s that tell you about what we can expect if things go sideways when you go into the Oval Office? What are you going to do? Go upstairs to the residence and say I’m not playing?” he asked. “You know, Vladimir Putin isn’t being nice to me, I’m not going to return his call? The press isn’t being nice to me, I’m not going to hold any more press conferences?” By quitting the debate, Christie said, Trump was acting like a “  ” and quoted his mother who always reminded him that “life wasn’t fair. ” “The kind of person you want to vote for, the kind of person you want in the Oval Office, and the kind of person you want to stand on the stage next September against Hillary Rodham Clinton is not a person that when one thing goes sideways, when one things seems not fair, they’re just going to walk away and take their marbles and go away,” he warned. In an interview with Sean Hannity last night, Christie said that Trump was acting   in his battle with Fox News. “Why is he picking on Megyn Kelly? I don’t understand  —   why’s he picking on Fox News? I don’t understand that. It makes no sense. This guy’s got more coverage on this network by a multiple of five or six than any of the rest of us and he says he is being treated unfairly?” he asked. “That’s a really thin skin, Sean. ” Christie reminded Fox News viewers that Trump had been given unprecedented access to the cable news network. “He phones in to every darn show. None of the rest of us do that. He sits in his jammies in Trump Tower and phones in,” he said. “You guys don’t let any of the rest of us do that. ” The New Jersey governor has been critical of Trump since the debate circus started. “I think Donald Trump is making a big mistake,” Christie said in an interview on Boston Herald Radio. “I am glad he is not coming from my perspective, it’s more time for the rest of us on the stage. ” When asked by Hannity if he was trying to pick a fight with Trump, Christie denied it. “I’m not picking on him. It’s the truth,” he said. “If you don’t like the debate moderators, stand up and fight. You don’t like the networks, stand up and fight, show up and fight. ”