Cruz surrogate Glenn Beck is once again encouraging Americans to join him in a fast in the   to a crucial primary vote and to spread the word with the hashtag #Tuesdayfast. [In a Sunday night Facebook post, Beck wrote: “I would like to ask that you, your family and friends join me for a day of prayers, fasting and humility. To beg the Lord to not remove His hand from us. To turn to Him and ask that He will heal our land. Beginning Monday night and running for 24 hours ending on Tuesday will you pray and if possible fast like you have never done before?”  Beck noted that, “I have asked for this in the past and was mocked. It is okay. ” Beck is a fervent supporter of GOP candidate Ted Cruz and has been campaigning with the Texas senator for months across the country, including in Indiana on Sunday and Monday in advance of the primary there, which many regard as a    moment for Cruz. Following Cruz’s defeat in the South Carolina primary, Beck invited America “to join me and my family Monday in a fast for Ted Cruz, our country and the Nevada caucus. ” Cruz lost the Nevada caucus three days later. It’s been a difficult past week for Beck, following news of another round of mass layoffs at his troubled media empire. On Friday, after giving an impassioned “farewell address” of sorts to his 40   employees from his replica Oval Office, the former radio shock jock joined his   in donning swim goggles and rubbing his face in a bowl of crushed Cheetos to see if they could “look like Donald Trump. ” Read Beck’s complete Facebook post below: It was on April 30th 1789 when George Washington raised his right hand and placed his left on the Bible which had been opened randomly to Genesis 49 due to running behind. He then walked a few blocks to attend a service as passed in a congressional resolution two days prior: Resolved, That after the oath shall have been administered to the President, he, attended by the Vice President and members of the Senate and House of Representatives, shall proceed to St. Paul’s Chapel, to hear divine service. This chapel is now known as “the little church that stood”. It still stands as the oldest Church in NYC across the street from the World Trade Center. It is here that Washington spent four hours in prayer and made a covenant with God. “He will be our God and we shall be His people. ” I believe this covenant is still in effect. It has protected us and this land for a great while. We are shunning God, and now openly mocking Him. We have chased Him from our public spaces and conversations, His laws are not recognized anymore in most of our courtrooms, schools, business’ nor our homes and not only can we as a people not name the basic ten laws of God, we break them as individuals and as a nation on a regular basis. We have become lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, arrogant, revilers, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, unholy, unloving, irreconcilable, malicious gossips, without   brutal, and haters of good. We wonder why our nation is in trouble. It has nothing to do with DC as they are nearly a reflection of us. Have you ever seen an election like this before? I am in a courtyard inn in Ft Wayne Indiana after speaking to maybe 6 thousand people today. I will be away from my family and my business until Wednesday night. Because I believe that this may be our last chance. The Supreme Court judges that will be appointed are enough to seal our fate alone. But, I believe this is an individual choice. There is no collective salvation and He is asking each of us to choose. We all agree, America is at a cross roads. If we choose a King, he will give us one. He always does. But because we are the only nation since ancient Israel to have actually made a covenant with Him, it must be broken, I believe by all of us. I realize many will mock this theory, but in a way that will prove my point. We have become such an unholy people that he wants to see each of us, each state to choose  —   who will you serve? Principles, truth, kindness, and decency or those who deal in greed, hate, anger and fear. Tuesday Indiana is making its choice. All will be counted. It strikes me as an important “coincidence” that the election will be held just a few days after the anniversary of the original covenant. I have asked for this in the past and was mocked. It is okay. I would like to ask that you, your family and friends join me for a day of prayers, fasting and humility. To beg the Lord to not remove His hand from us. To turn to Him and ask that He will heal our land. Beginning Monday night and running for 24 hours ending on Tuesday will you pray and if possible fast like you have never done before? “Cry out to Him”. Join me and my family in praying and fasting for our nation and our God to look down and forgive us of our misguided ways. “Help us Lord to return to you and have the bravery to do the hard thing  —   to Trust in You and to do our part by standing firm in the eternal truths that Got us here in the first place. ” Let us renew our covenant with Him and as George Washington did and humbly seek his face, guidance and protection. Please help spread the word. ‪#‎Tuesdayfast, Follow Rebecca Mansour on Twitter @RAMansour