Kenneth W. Starr announced Wednesday that he would resign as chancellor of Baylor University, effective immediately, saying it was a “matter of conscience. ” Mr. Starr’s decision came less than a week after he was stripped of the more operationally powerful position of president of the university in the wake of a scandal in which Baylor acknowledged that it had mishandled accusations of sexual assault against several football players. “I have to, and I willingly do, accept responsibility,” Mr. Starr told “Outside the Lines,” the ESPN program in which he announced his decision. “The captain goes down with the ship,” he added. But he also doubled down on a statement he released last week in which he said that he had been unaware of the beginning of what was later described as a widespread problem until last August, when a former football player was convicted of sexual assault. While Mr. Starr is stepping down as chancellor, a role that a Baylor regent described last week as one focused primarily on raising money as well as on “religious liberty,” he planned to retain his post as a tenured professor at Baylor’s law school. The scandal has also claimed the jobs of Art Briles, the successful head football coach, whom the Board of Regents fired last Thursday, and Ian McCaw, the athletic director, who resigned Sunday, days after the Regents had placed him on probation. Mr. Starr said he had not been consulted on Mr. Briles’s firing. He mixed some light condemnation of the coach, for failing to be a “stronger disciplinarian,” with praise, calling him a “players’ coach” and a “genius. ” Before entering academia as dean of the Pepperdine University School of Law in 2004 and becoming president of Baylor, the country’s largest Baptist university, in 2010, Mr. Starr was an independent counsel whose report to Congress led to President Bill Clinton’s impeachment in 1998. Before that, he was the United States solicitor general and a federal judge. At Baylor, Mr. Starr was credited with raising the university’s national profile  —   along with hundreds of millions of dollars  —   in no small part by tying the university’s national image to the recent success of its football team under Mr. Briles. It was Mr. Starr who, nearly one year ago, ordered an internal investigation into the university’s handling of a former player who was convicted of sexually assaulting another Baylor athlete. That inquiry led Mr. Starr to recommend that Baylor hire outside lawyers to investigate Baylor’s handling of such accusations more broadly. The board agreed, and it described the results of that investigation last Thursday in an executive summary that accompanied its decisions to demote Mr. Starr and to fire Mr. Briles. The board said in a statement last week that the investigation had found that the university’s climate flouted federal   laws, including Title IX. The board condemned a university leadership that, it said, “created a cultural perception that football was above the rules. ”