That the brilliant Canadian conductor Yannick   41, will become the next music director of the Metropolitan Opera is not much of a surprise. Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, has been dropping hints of this move for months  —   for a couple of years, really. After the announcement in April that James Levine was stepping aside, it took just six weeks for the details of Mr.  ’s appointment to be worked out. What is surprising, though, and concerning, is how long the Met is willing to go without a music director, even an interim appointment. After becoming director designate in 2017, Mr.   does not officially begin his tenure until the start of the   season. To put this time lag in perspective, whichever presidential candidate is elected in November could be in the final stage of a   campaign when Mr.   takes the podium as the Met’s music director. Even then, he is committing to only five productions during that season because he will continue to hold another   post as music director of the Philadelphia Orchestra. The obvious interim strategy would have been to appoint a caretaker, or a couple of them, until then. My fantasy? The Met might have asked the eminent Bernard Haitink, who once presided over the Royal Opera House in London, to share the duties with   Salonen, who could have been a sort of composer in residence. Mr. Salonen certainly proved himself a stunning conductor of repertory works this spring, when he led the most rapturous and truly electrifying “Elektra” you could hope to hear. But if the orchestra and administration are willing to wait for the gifted Mr.   so be it. The artists of the company, especially the musicians of the Met’s superb orchestra, must have an artistic leader they believe in. I think that the accomplished Gianandrea Noseda could have been a smart choice, or Fabio Luisi. Five years ago it seemed as if Mr. Luisi was being groomed to take over for Mr. Levine. That said, the Met’s enthusiasm for Mr.   is understandable. Since his 2009 debut conducting a sensual, exciting “Carmen,” he has led some 50 memorable performances at the house in works as varied as Verdi’s profound masterpiece, “Don Carlo,” and Dvorak’s gossamer fairy tale, “Rusalka. ” What he is capable of came through in 2011, when he conducted a new production of “Faust. ” Despite some wondrous passages, that Gounod opera is far from a favorite of mine. Yet drawing transparent, glowing playing from the orchestra, Mr.   had this score seeming not just refined but musically significant. Several years is a long time for an opera company to wait. There are potential downsides if the Met seems to be punting. In recent years, as Mr. Levine struggled with serious health problems (at one point missing two entire seasons of work) Mr. Gelb has been making all the artistic calls. Opera fans who count on the Met to live up to its legacy want to know that a powerful musician with real authority is in the room when decisions about commissions, repertory and casting are being made. Assuming the company muddles through this coming period without a musical leader, what artistic vision will the energetic Mr.   bring when he fully takes over? That he can conduct a probing “Don Carlo” is not enough, especially when the Met, like performing arts institutions everywhere, is under pressure to define a mission for the future that will both maintain loyal opera lovers and attract new audiences. For all his successes with the Philadelphia Orchestra, Mr.   has not charted a clear course for that essential ensemble. In a recent interview with The New York Times, he conceded that Philadelphia had become dismayingly conservative in its programming and identity. There was “not a cultivation enough of what’s new” before he arrived, he said in the interview. But when asked what he would do about it, what new or underappreciated composers he might champion, he could not come up with a single name. Compare this with Mr. Levine, who was afire with vision for the Met as soon as he achieved a leadership role in the 1970s. He founded the Young Artist Development program started giving Carnegie Hall concerts and touring with the Met Orchestra played piano quartets and other works with the Met Chamber Ensemble (another of his initiatives) made the operas of Debussy, Berg and Stravinsky central to the Met’s repertory brought overlooked Mozart works to the stage and pushed the company to present Schoenberg’s daunting   “Moses und Aron. ” His one major shortcoming concerned commissioning composers. He did not press hard enough to turn the Met into a house that fostered new opera. In many ways, the charismatic Mr.   is an exciting choice for the Met. But challenging issues and big questions will face him when he arrives. Many people will be looking for indications of his mission in the coming years. It would be an encouraging statement of purpose if one of those five operas he conducts in the   season was a world premiere.