During his regular segment on John Batchelor’s radio show, Breitbart Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter Aaron Klein discussed the detailed contents of the final report released on Tuesday by the House Republicans Select Committee on Benghazi. [Listen to the full segment here:   Klein discussed the his numerous articles at Breitbart about the House Committee’s findings, including: *The Pentagon provided incomplete maps of assets it says were located in areas of responsibility for the regions in and near Benghazi during and in the days following the September 11, 2012 terrorist attacks at the U. S. Special Mission and nearby CIA Annex. *The report disclosed publicly for the first time that U. S. personnel at the attacked facilities were rescued the night of the attacks by a secretive force led by former military officers of Muammar Qaddafi’s regime. The report stresses that “the very individuals the United States had helped remove from power during the Libyan revolution were the only Libyans that came to the assistance of the United States on the night of the Benghazi attacks. ” *A member of the security team stationed at the CIA Annex in Benghazi testified that his chief of base directed him to “stand down” while the nearby U. S. Special Mission came under attack the night of September 11, 2012. A second security team member said he did not directly hear the words “stand down” from the chief of base, but that those words were relayed to him by another security team member. Other members said they were told to wait and did not hear anything about a “stand down” order. *The threat of     systems, or MANPADs, would have prevented aircraft from flying into Benghazi the night of the September 11, 2012 attacks on the U. S. Special Mission and nearby CIA Annex, according to two senior Pentagon officials. *A U. S. government security officer serving at the U. S. Special Mission in Benghazi prior to the September 11, 2012 attacks, warned his superiors that lack of adequate security at the compound made serving there a “suicide mission. ” The officer further predicted to his superiors “that there was a very good chance that everybody here was going to die. ”