Breitbart Senior Editor Milo Yiannopoulos will be speaking before a screening of Clinton Cash during the week of the Republican National Convention in Cleveland, Ohio on Tuesday. [The new documentary, which is based on Breitbart Senior    Peter Schweizer’s book of the same name, will be screened at Tower City Cinemas in Cleveland, Ohio at 1:00pm on Tuesday as a coinciding event during the Republican National Convention week (although the event is not sponsored by the RNC.)  Schweizer will also join Yiannopoulos with an opening speech. Clinton Cash is a   documentary that seeks to expose the corrupt, and sometimes terrifying, inner workings of the Clinton Foundation and the couple itself who have faced blistering heat from both conservative and liberal groups alike for their dodgy deals. Clinton Cash investigates how Bill and Hillary Clinton went from being “dead broke” after leaving the White House to amassing a net worth of over $150 million, with over $2 billion in donations to their foundation. This wealth was accumulated during Mrs. Clinton’s tenure as US Secretary of State through lucrative speaking fees and contracts paid for by foreign companies and Clinton Foundation donors. The film is based on the book, Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich, which dominated the headlines of the New York Times, Washington Post, and Wall Street Journal. The book’s investigations revealed foreign donors and companies funneling tens of millions of dollars to Hillary and Bill Clinton. As Harvard Law School Professor Lawrence Lessig wrote in the Washington Post, “On any fair reading, the pattern of behavior that Schweizer has charged is corruption. ” Clinton Cash has been lauded by top progressives for its exposure of crony capitalism and  . Jeffrey D. Sachs, Columbia University Earth Institute Director, called it, “Compelling   …     how Bill and Hillary have mixed personal wealth, power, and influence peddling. ” Daily Beast columnist Eleanor Clift calls Schweizer “  …     an   investigator, snaring Republicans as well as Democrats. ” And Demos Senior Fellow Nomi Prins says Clinton Cash “  …     provides a damning portrait of elite and circumspect power and influence. The event will be followed by a QA session with Schweizer and is free for anyone to attend, regardless of whether you are attending the Republican National Convention. You can sign up for a place at the screening here.  Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.