The magnitude 6. 5 earthquake that hit the Mendocino fault line off California’s northern coast early on Thursday is only part of an “earthquake storm” from the infamous volcanic “Ring of Fire” that is slamming the Golden State. [Breitbart News warned in “Earth Quake Storm Rattles California” in 2014 that the 25, 000 miles along the   ring that runs along the western Pacific coast, across to the Polynesian Islands, and up the east Coast of Asia “is moving out of its approximately 65 year quiet period and into its 65 year active period. The Ring is associated with a nearly continuous series of oceanic trenches, volcanic arcs, and volcanic belts and plates that all can become active. ”  Approximately 90 percent of all earthquakes and 80 percent of all volcanic eruptions in the world occur along the Ring of Fire. The entire West Coast of the United States sits along an intense area of the Ring of Fire that is impacted by a massive network of faults that runs underneath California, Oregon, and Washington. The December 8 tremor was first reported as a magnitude 6. 8 on the Richter Scale, but was later downgraded. But what has not been reported is the entire state of California has been slammed by over 200 quakes in the last week, with over 100 seismic events in the last 24 hours. The first warning of the intensity of this Ring of Fire’s activity cycle came in   2014, when 100 quakes of up to 5. 3 magnitude rolled through Southern California, an 8. 1 magnitude monster pummeled Chile, and a 5. 8 magnitude tremor shook Panama. This latest active cycle officially began in 2012 with a string of noteworthy volcanic eruptions and small earthquakes along the perimeter of the Pacific Ocean. Geologists fear that it could be bad news that the West Coast has not experienced any devastating seismic events in decades, because that means the underground stress is building. Earthquake storms, like the 2014 series in Southern California, demonstrated a great breadth of seismic activity and almost always serve as the precursor for huge quakes. Although the press has been almost oblivious to this dangerous new threat from Mother Nature, insurance industry actuaries, who have a clear interest in the size and duration of volcanic cycles, are already raising earthquake coverage rates, given that about one third of the world’s population is living along the Ring. They project that volcanic activity in L. A. Shanghai, or Tokyo could cost up to a trillion dollars in damages and lost commerce. Although one recent survey found that a stunning 36 percent of all Americans believe that the increase in natural disasters we have seen in recent years is an indication we are in the Biblical End Times, residents along the Pacific Rim can look forward to another six decades of learning about all the exciting natural wonders the Ring of Fire has raged on the earth over millennia.