A U. S. Border Patrol agent was assaulted near Cowlic, Arizona, while attempting to apprehend a group of marijuana smugglers. One agent fired on the suspects after they began throwing rocks. [The incident happened at about 4:15 p. m. local time when a team of agents came upon a group of alleged marijuana smugglers after tracking them through the desert. As the agents approached the suspects they were assaulted by the smugglers with rocks, information provided by the Border Patrol Tucson Sector to Breitbart Texas stated.  One of the agents fired his weapon at the alleged assailant. Shortly after, the assailant and one other suspect were taken into custody by the agents. No injuries were reported in the incident. Agents seized multiple bundles of marijuana. The team of Border Patrol agents are assigned to the Casa Grande Border Patrol Station. The incident is under investigation by the FBI, Customs and Border Protection’s Office of Professional Responsibility, and the Tohomo O’odham Nation Police Department. Breitbart Texas has reported extensively about the use of rocks to seriously injure Border Patrol agents who are working along the border. In January, Breitbart Texas’ Managing Director Brandon Darby wrote about another agent in the Tucson Sector who was attacked by an illegal alien who threw a   rock at the agent. Despite his injury, the agent was able to take the suspect into custody. In another incident in January, a Border Patrol agent was forced to shoot a suspect after getting in a fight with the suspect he was attempting to arrest. In April 2014, Darby wrote about the dangers faced by Border Patrol agents from illegal aliens throwing rocks. Organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and    media try to downplay the danger of the rocks which are often portrayed as “kids throwing pebbles,” Darby wrote. The reality is, these rocks are often   rocks or larger and are capable of inflicting serious bodily injury or death. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.