Two young women were arrested outside of a Bernie Sanders rally in Los Angeles on Wednesday for indecent exposure after baring their chests to reveal “Feel the Bern” painted across their torsos. [“We asked them to put their clothes on and they refused,” LAPD Officer Mike Lopez told the Los Angeles Times, describing his interaction with of the unidentified women, aged 20 and 25, outside of the Wiltern Theater in Koreatown.  Tiernan Hebron andAnni Ma “Feel the Bern” @BernieSanders rally at the Wiltern Theatre in Los Angeles. pic. twitter.   —   Genaro Molina (@GenaroMolina47) March 24, 2016, Topless Women At Bernie Sanders Rally  —   “Free The Nipple”  https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Len And Todd WOR (@LenToddWOR) March 24, 2016, The women were reportedly booked on a misdemeanor charge of indecent exposure.  The Times points out that at an Arizona rally last weekend, a Los Angeles woman from the “Free the Nipple” movement interrupted Sanders’ speech with “Stop Fascism” written across her back. “Hate Speech” was also written in black paint across her chest. THE HILL: Topless woman protests at Sanders rally@cspanwj #TCOT pic. twitter.   —   Bill Badey (@10903) March 21, 2016, Following Sanders’s stunning victory over Clinton in Michigan, the race for the Democratic nomination has set a course for California, where both candidates arrived this week to rally for voter support. Despite Sanders’ popularity among millennial voters, he faces a difficult challenge in a state that is dominated by women and minorities, two groups in which Clinton does well. Sanders would need a decisive win in California to overtake Clinton’s current   lead. A Sanders victory in California could depend on his ability to mobilize the independent vote. During an interview with editors and editorial writers at the Los Angeles Times on Wednesday, Sanders acknowledged that he will be spending a lot of time in the Golden State. “You’re going to see me here more than you feel comfortable with,” he reportedly said. “We think we have a path to victory and that path absolutely has to come through California. ” On Wednesday, Clinton spoke at Stanford University, the day after radical Islamic terrorists attacked Brussels, killing dozens of people and injuring hundreds more. She described her plan to utilize the Internet to combat ISIS, whom she described as “radical jihadists. ” Photo: File, Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz.