Muhammad Ali, who died Friday, was part of some of the most memorable sporting moments of the 20th century. But he also once got into the ring with a Japanese professional wrestler in a bout, much anticipated at the time, that is almost forgotten today. On June 26, 1976, a week before the celebration of the United States Bicentennial, Ali, the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world, faced off in Tokyo against Antonio Inoki, a very popular wrestler in Japan. Organizers promoted the fight as the ultimate test of boxer versus wrestler and touted big paydays for the combatants, supposedly $6 million for Ali and $3 million for Inoki. Although the idea of a professional wrestler meeting the heavyweight champion might seem like a joke, it attracted tremendous attention at the time, with mainstream publications writing about it at length. Ali gleefully joined in the hunt for publicity, frequently pointing out how much money he was going to be making and how impressively he was going to win. There was no television coverage in the United States, and American fight fans had to travel to arenas, stadiums and theaters showing the fight on   TV. And travel they did. More than 30, 000 turned up at Shea Stadium. The fans at Shea were treated to a preliminary bout: the wrestler Andre the Giant against the boxer Chuck Wepner, known as the Bayonne Bleeder, a game if limited heavyweight sometimes cited as a model for Rocky Balboa. The bout lived up to expectations, as Andre lifted Wepner and hurled him from the ring to win in the third round. (The fight inspired a scene in “Rocky III” in which Thunderlips, played by Hulk Hogan, does something similar to Rocky.) If that match whetted appetites for   fans were destined to be disappointed. Ali came into the ring looking like a boxer with standard trunks and boxing gloves. Inoki suited up as a wrestler, with tight black trunks and bare hands. When the bell rang, Inoki quickly fell to the mat in a crablike posture and began kicking out at Ali’s legs. Ali danced around the ring looking for a chance to land a punch but not finding one. To the increasing fury of the crowd in Tokyo, and fans watching around the world, the bout continued in this manner for 15 interminable rounds. When it was over, the judges scored it an honorable draw and the paying customers hurled garbage at the ring. Ali managed only two punches in the fight, both left jabs, The New York Times reported. “Ali, Inoki Fight to Draw in Dull Bout” was the headline. “I wouldn’t have done this fight if I’d known he was going to do that,” Ali said. “Nobody knew this was going to happen, so we had a dead show. ” “It all proved boxers are superior to wrestlers,” Ali insisted. “He didn’t stand up and fight like a man. ” Commentators were unimpressed. “What was billed as ‘The Martial Arts World Championship Fight’ emerged as The ‘Farcial’ Arts World Championship Ripoff,” Dave Anderson wrote in a Sports of The Times column. With a professional wrestler involved, the natural question was whether the bout was fixed. The history is murky, and several versions exist. In one, the bout was a simple fix, though why a more entertaining spectacle wasn’t arranged is an open question. In another telling, Ali came expecting a fixed bout only to discover that Inoki was planning to fight for real. In a third version, Ali was told he was expected to lose the fight because of Inoki’s enormous popularity in Japan. Ali supposedly refused, turning a staged event into a real one. Whatever the truth, Ali’s legs were badly injured in the contest, as he took more than 100 kicks from Inoki. Although he expressed a willingness to wrestle again if the price was right, Ali returned to conventional boxing after the Inoki bout. He lost and then regained the title against Leon Spinks before losing fights to Larry Holmes and Trevor Berbick, then retiring. Inoki, now 73, went on to a career in politics and a seat in Japan’s parliament. The bout was a farce, but in a way it was a precursor to the modern spectacle of mixed martial arts in which practitioners of boxing, wrestling, judo, jujitsu and other combat sports can mix it up under unified rules. Ali was always a showman, even in the midst of his most serious and important bouts. It seems almost fitting that a strange and colorful fight against a professional wrestler in the Budokan in Tokyo would be a footnote to his glorious career.