OAKLAND, Calif.  —   Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, is fairly open about the fact that he plays favorites. When it comes to shooting the basketball, Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson are allowed to do whatever they want. They can chuck shots from the bleachers. Bad shots do not exist for them. “That’s the rule,” Kerr said, adding, “I trust their judgment. ” Draymond Green has not earned the right to be included in their elite little group  —   not yet, anyway. But he was at his dynamic best in the Warriors’   victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers on Sunday night in Game 2 of the N. B. A. finals. He buried  . He defended. He rebounded. And he helped carry the Warriors to a     series lead at Oracle Arena. “I don’t come into the game saying, ‘Oh, I have to shoot a lot more,’ ” said Green, who finished with 28 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. “Like, that’s not me. That’s not what I do for this team. But at the end of the day, if the game says shoot, you’re supposed to shoot. Because usually when you don’t, it turns into a disaster. ” The Cavaliers are in a world of trouble ahead of Game 3, which is scheduled for Wednesday night at Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland. The Warriors can sniff a second straight championship, can sense the final act in their   season. After setting an N. B. A. record by winning 73 games in the regular season, they need two more for another title. “Everything changes when we go to Cleveland,” Kerr said. “We know that. We have unbelievable respect for this team, and we’ve got to go on the road and try to do it again. ” Curry scored 18 points, and Thompson added 17  —   two more relatively muted efforts for them as defenders collapsed on them. But they found Green with so much open space on the perimeter, he could have been lounging on a beach towel and sipping a cool drink. “Tonight,” Thompson said, “he was one of us. ” Green relished his opportunities. He shot 11 of 20 from the field and 5 of 8 from   range. Kerr was miffed about only one of Green’s attempts, when he pulled up in transition and did a little dance before he let the ball fly. It was not what Kerr considered a   shot. Green made it anyway. “He becomes our safety valve when there’s pressure,” Kerr said. “He becomes an open shooter when they’re stepping out on Steph or Klay. So it’s a good situation for him. ” LeBron James collected 19 points, 9 assists and 8 rebounds, but he said he was disappointed with his performance, citing his 7 turnovers. The Cavaliers committed 18 as a team, which led to 26 points for the Warriors. “It’s hard for me to kind of pinpoint what’s not working and what could work right now,” James said. “Obviously, not much work is working, especially offensively. ” But James did not benefit from much help. Kyrie Irving had 10 points, and Kevin Love scored 5 points before he departed for the locker room early in the second half with dizziness. He was placed in the league’s concussion protocol. The Cavaliers shot 35. 4 percent over all. It looked as if they were hoisting shots in a stiff wind. “They were tougher than us and more aggressive,” Cavaliers Coach Tyronn Lue said. While the Warriors are celebrated for their   shooting, they also broke out their lunch pails and hard hats. When Love caught an inadvertent elbow to the back of the head midway through the second quarter, Green went straight at the rim for a layup. He punctuated the play by flexing his biceps as Love writhed in pain nearby. The victory was not without its challenges for Golden State. Curry picked up his fourth foul early in the third quarter and took a seat on the bench. But when the Cavaliers threatened, Green answered with another   his fourth of the game. Curry returned at the start of the fourth quarter. He promptly swished a   from another ZIP code. The lead was 23. Curry and Thompson had both struggled Thursday in Game 1, when they combined to score just 20 points on    shooting. Propped up by their bench, the Warriors won by 15  —   a result that portended danger for the Cavaliers. If they could not capitalize when Curry and Thompson were not playing good basketball, what did they expect to do once those two players started making shots? And rest assured, they would start making shots. Their problems would not persist forever. Ahead of Game 2, the Cavaliers said they wanted to operate with more pace, a familiar refrain for them this season. But playing fast is a dicey proposition against Golden State, which employs players with advanced degrees in transition basketball. The Warriors actually stumbled through a sluggish start, a Lamborghini stuck in second gear. After James went baseline for a spinning layup that put Cleveland ahead by 4 early in the second quarter, Kerr had seen enough. He called a   timeout so he could share some words of wisdom with his players. They promptly hit the gas. Green sank a  . Curry buried a   jumper. And the Warriors continued to apply pressure, building a   lead late in the second quarter. Golden State’s lead grew and grew over the course of the second half, each possession feeling more like a celebration for the fans at Oracle. Outside the visiting locker room, a mountain of luggage was waiting for the Cavaliers by the start of the fourth quarter. They could not leave town fast enough.