Globalist elite cooperation can defeat the “chronic violence” that is caused by real jihadism in France and supposed racism in police forces, President Barack Obama told a roomful of foreign ambassadors July 15. [“Overnight in Nice [France] we witnessed another tragic and appalling attack on the freedom and the peace that we cherish   …     [and] it’s been a difficult several weeks in the United States,” Obama told the ambassadors gathered in the White House.  After mentioning the Nice attack and hinting at the police engagements, Obama sketched out his demand for globalist fix for the “chronic violence” that he says is caused by competing racial, national and religious solidarities, I think have to step back [from the Nice attack] and reflect on what we are doing to eliminate this kind of chronic violence. It’s been a difficult several weeks in the United States.  But the divide   …     is between people who recognize the common humanity of all people and are willing to build [international] institutions that promote that common humanity, and those who do not  —   those who would suggest that somebody is less than them because of their tribe, or their ethnicity, or their faith, or their color.  And those impulses [for solidarity] exist in all our countries.  And those impulses, when we do not speak out against them and build strong institutions to protect people from those impulses, they can take over, they can be unleashed  —   so that all of us [international leaders] have responsibilities. For Obama, everyone  —  jihadis and cops, Catholics and capitalists, atheists and Australians  —   must subordinate their political, religious and legal affiliations to the greater authority of a single globalist power. They can’t compete, fight, defend themselves, intermarry, argue, compromise on principles, form their own countries, convert their rivals, or even campaign for political gains, because then they’re just expressing primitive supremacist “impulses” that must be suppressed by international organizations, according to Obama. And once their “impulses” are suppressed, then there will be nothing  —   no religion, no nations, no states, no races, no ethnicities  —   that can unite peoples against their rulers in the global government. Obama has made similar     declarations before. For example, in November 2014, he declared that Americans do not have the right to decide who can or cannot immigrate into the United States. In his statement, he used the term “tribe” and “race” to focus his criticism on white Americans, But here, part of what’s wonderful about America is also what makes our democracy hard sometimes, because sometimes we get attached to our particular tribe, our particular race, our particular religion, and then we start treating other folks differently. And that, sometimes, has been a bottleneck to how we think about immigration.  If you look at the history of immigration in this country, each successive wave, there have been periods where the folks who were already here suddenly say, well, I don’t want those folks.  Even though the only people who have the right to say that are some Native Americans. On Friday, Obama managed to praise Islam, even while he condemned unnamed people’s “impulses” that foster solidarity within their nation states or that also create various ethnic, racial or religious solidarities. “Islam [is] a religion that teaches peace and justice and compassion,” said Obama, despite the evidence from his own federal agencies, and even though Islam expanded out of Arabia to Spain and India via warfare, starting in the year 630. Obama did not say anything complimentary about Christianity or the United States, even though he is the    of the U. S. military and is the chief of law enforcement in the United States, whose members have been fighting for the nation against the nation’s enemies who describe themselves as Islamic armies. Victory against impulsive humanity’s obsolete disagreement will be achieved when global elites are able to offer decent jobs to people, Obama asserted.  In the Middle East, “we will defeat these [  terrorist] ideologies by offering a better vision of development and economic progress, so people, especially young people, have more hope and opportunity and are less susceptible to extremism and violence in the first place,” said Obama. The    plan ignores the willingness of many   Muslims to subordinate economic benefit to Islamic piety. For example, the   Mohamed Atta flew a civilian airliner  —   and its innocent passengers  —   into the crowded Twin Towers on  . Obama also slyly denounced the idea that Americans should have their own unique culture and  . The president slammed his own country’s ideals by slamming the broad and growing public support for excluding advocates of Islamic ideology from immigration quotas. That idea was boosted Thursday and Friday when former House Speaker said that   advocates of Islam’s unique sharia ideology should be sent home and excluded. “In the wake of last night’s attacks, we’ve heard more suggestions that all Muslims in America be targeted, tested for their beliefs some deported or jailed,” Obama complained. “The very suggestion is repugnant and an affront to everything that we stand for as Americans,” said Obama. However, Obama is personally responsible for targeting, testing and deporting any   immigrant to the United States who is affiliated with a terrorist group, or who was a member of the repugnant communist and national socialist parties.  The exclusionary rule that Obama is supposed to enforce is found in the federal government’s   citizenship form and in the citizenship oath. That’s where   citizens swear they have no link to communists or nazis, and promise to renounce loyalties to foreign power. The oath requires   citizens to swear “I hereby declare, on oath, that I absolutely and entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen  …    ” Instead of coherent   where ordinary people can create enough political solidarity to cooperatively solve their own problems  —   such as excessive power by elites  —   Obama wants to transfer power from national peoples to   international organizations. In his speech to the ambassadors, he said, I want to thank so many of your countries for the partnership that we’ve forged and the progress we’ve achieved together over these past eight years in rescuing the global economy and securing vulnerable nuclear materials.  A comprehensive deal to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.  Halting the spread of Ebola, and thereby saving countless lives.  In Paris, the most ambitious agreement in history to fight climate change.  A new sustainable development set of goals to end extreme poverty and promote health and education and equality for all people, including women. And through the efforts of many of you, we’ve continued to try to move beyond old conflicts:  Supporting the transition to democracy in Burma.  Forging a new partnership with Vietnam.  Deepening our new chapter of engagement with the Cuban people.  Helping to support the efforts in Colombia to end the   conflict.  That’s the power of diplomacy.  That’s what’s possible when our nations and our peoples work together in a spirit of mutual interest and mutual respect. That globalist agenda is the key to peace between and within nations, Obama insisted.   What a contrast to the death and nihilism that terrorists offer.  What a powerful reminder of the progress and opportunity and hope that we can advance when, as nations and as peoples and as individuals, we refuse to be defined by our differences alone, and we remember that we are all part of one human race  …     I’m very proud of the work that we’ve done over these last seven and a half years in partnership with your countries.  And so long as I have the privilege of being the President of the United States, I will continue to stand alongside you to promote those values all across the world. In the fight against “chronic violence,” he said, “we will win this fight by staying true to our values  —   values of pluralism and rule of law and diversity and freedoms, like the freedom of religion, freedom of speech and assembly  —   the very freedoms that the people of Nice were celebrating last night on Bastille Day. ” Actually, on Bastille Day, the French people celebrate the complete opposite of “diversity. ”  They celebrate the ability of ordinary French people to create and keep their unique   and their unique coherent culture, which emerged amid chronic violence with diverse neighbors and diverse ideologies, including Germany and Islam. Here are the combative words that French people sing on Bastille Day to strengthen and expand their mutual sense of French     national solidarity.  Obama does not sing any similar words when his fellow citizens, and their cultural cousins in Europe, are attacked by Islam. Here is the unique American song of American’s unique solidarity.  Most Americans will notice some important difference between their unique song of solidarity and the unique song of the United Kingdom, out of which America violently emerged in 1776.   