The new   Ghostbusters remake was always meant to be a disaster. Though the liberal media has attempted gloss over the largely negative reviews by putting the positive ones from feminist bloggers in the forefront, it’s safe to say that much of the public are not exactly fans. [During the lead up to the movie’s release, we spotted numerous bad omens along the way, and we’ve decided to compile a list of the top six that indicated the remake’s trouble long before the press had seen it.  1. The Trailer, 928, 158. That is the current number of dislikes on the official Ghostbusters remake trailer. It has just under 265, 000 likes. This makes the video YouTube’s most disliked trailer in history, and the film has not even been officially released yet. Why? The film looks shoddy. From the poor     visual effects, to the bizarre and frankly out of place jokes, Ghostbusters looks like a bad movie. Couple this with the fact that the original is one of the most beloved classics of all time, and you end up with a lot of angry people. Making a shoddy film is one thing, but attempting to remake a beloved classic with an incredibly inferior looking film is not going to make fans happy. 2. Director Paul Feig: ‘Ghostbusters’ Haters are ‘Misogynistic,’ ‘  Radio Monsters’ After a large proportion of the population expressed their distaste for the Ghostbuster remake’s trailer, the production team had to work fast in order to turns thing around. The solution? Brand everyone who criticized the remake as a misogynistic   monster. “[I have been] hit with some of the worst misogynistic stuff in the last two years,” said Feig during a diversity panel in June. “[As] someone coming from a liberal family and hearing   radio for the first time. It’s like, my God, what’s happened? They’re monsters. ” Several other colleagues and collaborators also joined in, with Judd Apatow saying, “I would assume there’s a very large crossover of people who are doubtful Ghostbusters will be great and people excited about the Donald Trump candidacy. I would assume they are the exact same people. ” 3. The new Ghostbusters cast sharing a stage with Hillary Clinton, In May, talkshow host Ellen DeGeneres announced that the new   cast of Ghostbusters would be sharing a stage with Hillary Clinton during the next episode. “Get your Woman Cards ready” declared DeGeneres. The entire cast of Ghostbusters is here next week and now @HillaryClinton is coming, too! Get your Woman Cards ready.  —   Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) May 17, 2016,  What none of them seemed to realize was that by putting a cast of an already hated film up with one of the most hated political figures in American history, they weren’t going to be doing the movie any favors. 4. Ghostbusters Star Melissa McCarthy: Critics Are   Old Men Living In Their Mother’s Basements, During a   appearance on the Jimmy Kimmel Show, Melissa McCarthy made an unfavorable joke about critics of the film with host Jimmy Kimmel. “A lot of these guys who seem to have, I don’t know, maybe very empty lives are upset because they say, oh well you can’t have female Ghostbusters because only men can fight imaginary ghosts in a make believe movie” said Kimmel towards the cast. “What these guys don’t say when they’re typing is that their moms are like ‘get upstairs and take out the garbage! You’re forty five years old’” replied McCarthy.  5. Sony’s “aggressive” efforts to get original   Bill Murray to promote the film, During the Sony Entertainment Pictures hack in 2014, an array of awkward and exposing emails between executives were leaked. Among these were an email chain where one executive recommended “aggressive” options should original Ghostbusters   Bill Murray refuse to help promote the remake again. In order to more fully evaluate our position if Bill Murray again declines to engage on “Ghostbusters” AG requested that we identify “aggressive” litigation counsel with whom we can consult to evaluate our alternatives and strategize.  [Harkening back to his prior employer, of course, raised the name of David Boies.] Personally, while I’m fine with aggressive, I think we are in much worse shape if this goes public so seems to me we should look for someone who isn’t seeking the spotlight. Can we discuss at some point soon to provide a suggestion or two? Thanks. Surely enough, during the recent television promotion circuits, Murray was seen with the new cast promoting the film. 6. The official Ghostbusters toys have been spotted in numerous stores’ clearance sections, and the film hasn’t even been release yet, As if the run up to the films release couldn’t get any more embarrassing, numerous shoppers around the nation have already witnessed the new Ghostbusters toys end up in the clearance section  …     and the film hasn’t even been released yet! Several users on Twitter have shared images of the toys online which are already laden with big red reduced stickers. Ouch. #Ghostbusters toys are marked down at Toys R Us  straight up on clearance (? !) at Target. This movie isn’t OUT yet. pic. twitter.   —   Ryan J. Downey (@ryandowney) July 9, 2016,  Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.