  Anthony Weiner has lost his job writing for The New York Daily News after it was revealed that he sexted with a woman while his young son was in bed with him. [“We won’t be running his columns in the future,” said Daily News opinion editor Josh Greenman.  Weiner has written 23   for the liberal Daily News this year with headlines like “How Hil and Bernie can come to terms” and “Timely advice for our tardy mayor” de Blasio, who defeated Weiner in the 2013 mayoral race due to Weiner’s sexting. Weiner first went down in 2011, when he resigned from Congress after Andrew Breitbart forced mainstream journalists to acknowledge Weiner’s Twitter sexting habit. Hillary Clinton campaign   woman Huma Abedin, Weiner’s wife, announced Monday the couple is separating. The New York Post hit newsstands Monday with one of its better headlines: “Pop Goes The Weiner. ” According to the Post: The    cad shot the revealing photo while discussing massage parlors “near my old apartment” shortly after 3 a. m. on July 31, 2015, a screenshot of the exchange shows. Weiner was clearly aroused by his conversation with the   divorcee when he abruptly changed the subject. “Someone just climbed into my bed,” Weiner wrote. “Really?” she responded. Weiner then hit “Send” on the   image, which shows a bulge in his white,   boxer briefs and his son cuddled up to his left, wrapped in a   blanket. “You do realize you can see you[r] Weiner in that pic? ?” the woman wrote. Moments after forwarding the photo, Weiner freaked out over the possibility he had accidentally posted it publicly  —   just as he did during the infamous episode that forced him to resign from Congress in 2011. “Ooooooh . . . I was scared. For half a second I thought I posted something. Stop looking at my crotch,” Weiner wrote back. “Whatever. You did it on purpose,” she replied. “O I see you thought you posted on your TL [public timeline] not DM [direct message]. S —  t happens be careful,” she added. Weiner’s latest sexting partner was described by the Post as a “busty brunette” and a Donald Trump supporter.