NEW YORK  —   Conspiracy theorists are going to have a field day with this one. [An email hacked from Colin Powell’s Gmail account has him writing that he had just returned from the famed Bohemian Grove  —   a place the Washington Post once described as “where the rich and powerful go to misbehave”  —   and that most attendees there will not vote for Donald Trump and find him to be a “disaster. ” Powell further reported that “quite a few will not vote for Hillary and will vote for a third party candidate. ”  Here is Powell’s full July 24, 2016 email, which was hacked by DCLeaks and accessed by Breitbart News via a password provided to this reporter by the hacking group: Peter, I am back from the Bohemian Grove. Surprise, surprise, I sat nextto Stephen Harper a couple of times and had a nice discussion.  Groveattendees know that Trump is a disaster. Most will vote against, but quitea few will not vote for Hillary and will vote for a third party candidate. Strange doings down here. Otherwise all is well with the Powells. We’llsneak away for a few days in August. Of course I’d love to see you. Let meknow your dates.  I told Stephen that you seemed quite content in your newplace in life. All the best, Colin, The email was addressed to Canadian politician and lawyer Peter Gordon MacKay, a former Canadian Member of Parliament, who also served as Minister of Justice and Attorney General, Minister of National Defense, and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Stephen Harper, referenced in the email, served as Canada’s prime minister from February 6, 2006 to November 4, 2015. Bohemian Grove is a   campground in Monte Rio, Calif that has served as a meeting place for top politicians and businessmen.  The site’s major annual secretive meeting takes place for two weeks in July, with Powell writing that he was present at last July’s event. In a previous email to MacKay, Powell wrote about the policy of not bringing communication devices to Bohemian Grove. “I am racing out of town to the California Redwoods for the weekend,” Powell wrote, referring to the Grove. “No phones, email or even Kindles. ” In a 2011 profile, the Washington Post reported thusly on the annual July event: Every July, some of the richest and most powerful men in the world gather at a 2, 700 acre campground in Monte Rio, Calif. for two weeks of heavy drinking,   talks, druid worship (the group insists they are simply “revering the Redwoods”) and other rituals. Their purpose: to escape the “frontier culture,” or uncivilized interests, of common men. The people that gather at Bohemian Grove  —   who have included prominent business leaders, former U. S. presidents, musicians, and oil barons  —   are told that “Weaving Spiders Come Not Here,” meaning business deals are to be left outside. One exception was in 1942, when a planning for the Manhattan Project took place at the grove, leading to the creation of the atom bomb. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook. With research by Joshua Klein.