A new poll in Texas shows that Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s lead has swelled to 12 points over opponent Hillary Clinton. [The     Strategies Poll reveals that if the election for president was held today, 52 percent of likely voters said they would vote for Trump, and 39 percent said they would vote for Clinton, reported CBSDFW. The Dallas CBS affiliate wrote, the poll result “casts doubt on any Democratic victory on November 8. ”  Polls by the CBS affiliate in August had Trump 11 points over Clinton with 46 percent to Clinton’s 35 percent. In October, their poll had Trump at 45 percent and Clinton at 38 percent. Dixie Strategies pollster Brian Graham told CBS 11’s Jack Fink, “People have now decided and it appears that Donald Trump has captured most of those undecided voters as we have gotten closer [to the November general election]. ” Trump has also seen a increase in his very favorable and somewhat favorable rating. It is now 52 percent it was 37 percent in August. The GOP nominee has seen a decrease in his somewhat unfavorable and very unfavorable ratings. It was at 60 percent in August but is now at 45 percent. The very favorable and somewhat favorable figures for Clinton combined were 39 percent they were at 31 percent in August. Her somewhat unfavorable and very unfavorable ratings were 58 percent which is 8 points down from the 66 percent in August. Those who participated in the poll from the blue city of Dallas, Texas, were more likely to vote for Clinton but Trump’s lead was still five points over Clinton. The Dallas Morning News endorsed Clinton but took a subscription hit from angry Texans after doing so, as reported by Breitbart Texas. Part of the     Strategies Poll was conducted prior to the announcement by FBI Director James Comey on the afternoon of October 28th that the FBI was reopening the investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server when she was Secretary of State. The poll was conducted on October 27 to 29. On October 31 on Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM, pollster and political analyst Pat Caddell called the Hillary Clinton investigation a “Constitutional Crisis” like Watergate. He asked, “Do you want a President who is under investigation from day one?” and noted that the email scandal could engulf any Clinton presidency as Watergate did to Nixon’s.  “This investigation cannot go away,” and he said that if there is confidential or classified government emails among the approximately 650, 000 discovered on Anthony Weiner and Huma Abedin’s laptop, that alone could be a felony. A Breitbart News article on November 1 detailed the top seven charges that Clinton could face while president. As reported by Breitbart News, “The Hillary Clinton email scandal can seem complicated. But it’s easy to understand. ” The FBI investigation into bribery with the Clinton Foundation spans over the United States in multiple field offices, reported Breitbart Texas and Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on Sunday. Clinton has angrily responded to the renewed email investigation saying, “There is no case here. ” Texas Governor Greg Abbott, former Governor Rick Perry, Texas Senator Ted Cruz, and Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick have all endorsed Trump. Patrick is serving as the Texas state chairman of the Trump campaign. As reported by Breitbart Texas in   Governor Abbott said it was time for the GOP to support the Republican presidential candidate. Abbott said there was no option to sit it out saying, “We have no second chance to get this right. ” The Texas governor explained that the country is at “a tipping point. ” “People have to participate if we are going to put America back on the right track,” Abbott said while appearing on CNBC. In August, Breitbart Texas reported that Texas Land Commissioner and Texas GOP Victory Chair George P. Bush told members of the Texas State Republican Executive Committee (SREC) “it’s a bitter pill to swallow, but you know what? You get back up and help the man who won, and you make sure that we stop Hillary Clinton. ” The Land Commissioner is the son of former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, grandson of former President George H. W. Bush, and the nephew of former President George W. Bush. Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.