The Defeat Crooked Hillary PAC, a Super PAC fighting against Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Rodham Clinton, launched two ads on Wednesday targeted at swing state voters and connecting the dots on Clinton’s checkered financial past. The ads have a   buy behind them, and are running on Facebook, YouTube, and Google aiming for undecided voters in swing states, according to a release. [The first ad, “She Knows Putin Too Well,” walks through how Hillary Clinton knows Vladimir Putin, Russia’s president, “a little too well. ”  “Hillary Clinton talks tough on Russia for the cameras and the crowds, but privately, she chose to personally profit from a deal with Putin  —   by arranging the sale of twenty percent of United States’ uranium to Russia. Hillary Clinton feigns outrage over the actions of other countries’ horrific human rights records while the Clinton Foundation rakes in cash from those same foreign governments,” Hogan Gidley, Defeat Crooked Hillary PAC’s communications director, said in a statement. “Hillary recently bragged about having ‘both a public and private position’ on issues. What’s shocking is that her private positions are this hypocritical, this corrupt, this greedy, and this dangerous. ” The Putin ad includes a headline from the New York Times from April 2015 from reporters Jo Becker and Mike McIntire that states clearly, “Cash Flowed to Clinton Foundation Amid Russian Uranium Deal. ” That Times piece, which was based partially on Peter Schweizer’s bestselling book Clinton Cash but independently verified and expanded upon by the Times, details how Hillary Clinton is responsible for letting Putin obtain control of a fifth of the United States’ uranium deposits. Becker and McIntire wrote that “Russian atomic energy agency, Rosatom, had taken over a Canadian company with   stakes stretching from Central Asia to the American West” back in 2013, a deal celebrated in the Russian propaganda media Pravda: “The deal made Rosatom one of the world’s largest uranium producers and brought Mr. Putin closer to his goal of controlling much of the global uranium supply chain,” Becker and McIntire wrote in the New York Times. “But the untold story behind that story is one that involves not just the Russian president, but also a former American president and a woman who would like to be the next one. At the heart of the tale are several men, leaders of the Canadian mining industry, who have been major donors to the charitable endeavors of former President Bill Clinton and his family. Members of that group built, financed and eventually sold off to the Russians a company that would become known as Uranium One. ” The Times reported that not only did Hillary Clinton herself, as secretary of state, sign off on the deal —  but that Bill Clinton, her husband and the former president, was greased up with cash from the Russians while all this went down. Becker and McIntire wrote: Beyond mines in Kazakhstan that are among the most lucrative in the world, the sale gave the Russians control of   of all uranium production capacity in the United States. Since uranium is considered a strategic asset, with implications for national security, the deal had to be approved by a committee composed of representatives from a number of United States government agencies. Among the agencies that eventually signed off was the State Department, then headed by Mr. Clinton’s wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton. They went on to assert: As the Russians gradually assumed control of Uranium One in three separate transactions from 2009 to 2013, Canadian records show, a flow of cash made its way to the Clinton Foundation. Uranium One’s chairman used his family foundation to make four donations totaling $2. 35 million. Those contributions were not publicly disclosed by the Clintons, despite an agreement Mrs. Clinton had struck with the Obama White House to publicly identify all donors. Other people with ties to the company made donations as well. And shortly after the Russians announced their intention to acquire a majority stake in Uranium One, Mr. Clinton received $500, 000 for a Moscow speech from a Russian investment bank with links to the Kremlin that was promoting Uranium One stock. Now that this ad is out, this story, one of the biggest of this election that hasn’t been told, will find its way into the hearts and minds of swing voters. The other ad, “ ” goes in depth into more elements of Clinton Cash corruption, hammering Bill Clinton for the paid speeches and Hillary Clinton for her actions that occurred simultaneously at the State Department: 