Certain American victims of illegal alien crime say Sen. Ted Cruz should be “charged with treason” for his decision to team up with   Governor John Kasich in order to nullify the votes of Donald Trump supporters. [“They both ought to be charged with treason,” said Billy Inman, whose son    Dustin was murdered while he and his family were on their way to celebrate an early Father’s Day family fishing trip. An illegal alien   the family’s vehicle at over 60 mph. His son’s murderer is still roaming free.  “Their teaming up should ruin Ted Cruz’s career,” said Cruz constituent Laura Wilkerson whose    son Joshua was tied up, beaten, strangled, set on fire, and tortured to death by his illegal alien classmate. “Who do they think they are trying to silence us?” asked Mary Ann Mendoza, whose    son, Sgt. Brandon Mendoza, was murdered by a drunk illegal alien who had been driving the wrong way down a freeway with a blood alcohol level three times the legal limit. “If Republicans wanted either Cruz or Kasich as a candidate, they would be voting for them,” Mendoza said. Instead “the two of them are trying to bully their OWN mindset on us. Republican voters are voting for the person they feel will make our country great again. Something like this has got to make people wonder, why are these career politicians so afraid of Mr. Trump?” When asked to respond to the statements from the victims of illegal alien crime, Cruz’s spokeswoman Alice Stewart said: Having Donald Trump at the top of the ticket in November would be a sure disaster for Republicans.  Not only would Trump get blown out by Clinton or Sanders, but having him as our nominee would set the party back a generation. To ensure that we nominate a Republican who can unify the Republican Party and win in November, our campaign will focus its time and resources in Indiana and in turn clear the path for Gov. Kasich to compete in Oregon and New Mexico, and we would hope that allies of both campaigns would follow our lead.  In other states holding their elections for the remainder of the primary season, our campaign will continue to compete vigorously to win. Throughout his campaign, Cruz has had to fend off charges leveled against him by   immigration expansionist Sen. Marco Rubio that his and Cruz’s positions on immigration are not “dramatically different”. Indeed, Cruz has sought to explain his statements from 2013, in which he declared, “I want immigration reform to pass” and in which he urged “people of good faith on both sides of the aisle” to compromise in order to “pass   immigration reform” that “allows those that are here illegally to come in out of the shadows. ” The victims of illegal alien crime argue that Cruz’s decision to team up with   Kasich to stop Trump undermines Cruz’s argument that he cares about securing the nation’s border. As Breitbart News has previously reported, Kasich’s extreme statements on immigration place him to the furthest leftward reaches of not just the Republican field, but the Democratic Presidential field as well. For instance, not only has Kasich pledged that he would enact amnesty within his first 100 days in office, but Kasich has also previously said illegal immigrants are a “critical part of our society. ” Kasich has said that enforcing the nation’s immigration laws in not “the kind of values that we believe in” Kasich has likened deporting the illegal population to Japanese interment camps he has compared illegal immigration to cutting in line at a Taylor Swift concert and he has suggested that America can’t deport illegal immigrants because they are “made in the image of the Lord”. “Cruz is just a talker,” Inman said, arguing that Cruz’s decision to team up with Kasich suggests that he does not have any intention to actually secure the nation’s border as President. “He can just talk and talk, but there’s never any action  …     My son died in vain. ” “Ted Cruz is all about theater and controlling the opposition by pretending to lead it,” said Cruz constituent Dan Golvach. While Cruz was in the U. S. Senate, Golvach’s    son Spencer was randomly shot by an illegal alien who decided to use Spencer’s “head as target practice. ” “What the two puppets are doing is nothing more than what they are told to do,” Golvach said of Cruz and Kasich’s decision to join forces. Golvach said that Cruz and Kasich’s “sugar daddies are shaking in their boots because they know Trump will expose them and expose their lawless deeds that have not only hurt American workers, but also left them vulnerable to all manners of crime including joy killing, as in the case of my    son  …     It’s treasonous and they will continue to get away with it if we keep supporting their puppets. ” Both Golvach and Wilkerson say that Cruz has never “reached out to a Texas American family that has lost a loved one” at the hands of an illegal alien. “Cruz and Kasich teaming up should speak loudly to the American public that America’s choice for POTUS doesn’t matter at all,” Wilkerson said. “The establishment is hell bent on making that clear. ” “It might be within the rules, but it’s highly immoral and disrespectful to the electorate,” Golvach said. Mendoza explained: We are painfully watching the slow death of the Republican Party in front of our eyes. If Cruz and Kasich believe that they’re going to unite the Republican Party by doing something like this, they have a rude awakening about to happen  …     their actions are sending clear message to American that we NEED Mr. Trump as our president to stop all the special interests and corruption that happens daily with our current politicians. Why aren’t we all as Americans standing up to this crap? [  …    ] What we need to be asking is: Who is REALLY behind this latest scheme they have cooked up? “Trump ought to rip up his Republican Party pledge,” Inman said citing the Republican establishment’s treatment of its Party’s frontrunner. “He ought to rip it up. ” Inman said that watching Cruz team up with the   members of the Establishment reveals that Cruz is simply a “puppet in a puppet show. ” “How can Cruz say those things about someone and then pretend like he’s their best friend?” Inman said. “It shows Cruz is just a puppet. Watching these professional politicians interact is just like watching a puppet show. It’s all a puppet show. Trump is the only one who isn’t a puppet. There ain’t anybody pulling his strings. ”