A day after claiming her party’s nomination for president, an exhilarated Hillary Clinton said she was “still processing” the emotions of the moment on Wednesday as she heard from people around the globe both excited about her success and deeply anxious about her Republican rival, Donald J. Trump. In a brief but at times introspective interview, Mrs. Clinton said that although other countries have been led by women, such a milestone would be different were it to happen in the United States. She called the demands of the American political system more personally grueling and difficult. “I really believe our system is probably the most challenging in the world,” Mrs. Clinton said. “If you’re a prime minister, you’re chosen by your peers,” she continued. “If you’re president, you run statewide, but it’s usually with the backing of a party and you don’t have to raise the money to run. ” But, she added, “Women candidates all face the same scrutiny, and questions about ourselves, so there are similarities. ” The implications of her claiming the Democratic nomination for president  —   the first woman to do so for a major American political party  —   became clear quickly for Mrs. Clinton, 68, in recent days. Prominent women and many male leaders have “reached out to me in recent days to encourage me and say how much this election means to their country and the world. ” “It’s something I’m still processing,” Mrs. Clinton added. Her comments came days before Mr. Trump plans to give a major speech seeking to revive the scandals of the 1990s that entangled Mrs. Clinton and her husband, Bill, and criticize the foundation the family has run. She vowed not to respond to his personal attacks and said she would continue to use his words against him. “I am responding to his very apparent lack of qualifications to be president based on what he has said and done and the temperamentally unfit person he is,” Mrs. Clinton said. She joined Republican leaders including Speaker Paul D. Ryan in denouncing Mr. Trump’s comments last week that a   judge, Gonzalo P. Curiel of United States District Court, had been biased against Mr. Trump because of his heritage. Mrs. Clinton went beyond her previous characterization of Mr. Trump’s remarks, saying on Wednesday that his attack on Judge Curiel based on his ethnicity was “an outrageous, racist attack. ” But even as Mrs. Clinton tried to portray a steely fortitude in facing Mr. Trump, and a determination not to allow his personal attacks to get her off course, she offered a glimpse of the toll that reliving some of her lowest and most publicly humiliating moments would take. Throughout her second presidential campaign, Mrs. Clinton has drawn on the inspiration of her mother, Dorothy Rodham, who was born into poverty and neglect and taught her daughter, from an early age, to confront bullies and stand up for herself. “She was such a stalwart support in every way, mostly personal, but she would have been excited she would have been proud,” Mrs. Clinton said about how Mrs. Rodham would have viewed the events of the past few days. But, Mrs. Clinton also suggested that her mother would be eager to protect her from the attacks to come. “She might have been a little apprehensive,” she said. “This is a very big step. ” Mrs. Clinton offered a vigorous defense of a decision which has haunted her primary campaign  —   her acceptance of large amounts of money for giving speeches to Wall Street banks, a practice that even her most ardent supporters have viewed as puzzlingly  . Mrs. Clinton called such speeches that garner   fees “the norm” for previous secretaries of state. “I actually think it makes sense,” she added. When pressed on why, in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis and the Occupy Wall Street movement, she chose to give such speeches, Mrs. Clinton reiterated that she had put forth “the most specific plan” of any candidate to regulate the financial industry. “A lot of people know you have a   seat in what is going on in the world, so maybe you have some interesting observations about political or economic concerns,” Mrs. Clinton explained. “That to me is how it came about, and that’s what I talked about when I was making speeches. ” During the interview, Mrs. Clinton seemed almost to be trying to grapple with the meaning of her achievement and the overall restive mood of the country. She seemed also to be wrestling with themes she publicly raised, at times to mockery, in her early years in the White House  —   about whether the country has lost its sense of larger mission and community. “It’s important people feel like they’re part of a larger national purpose,” Mrs. Clinton said. “It makes a big difference if people have jobs with dignity and purpose. ” “I’ve thought a lot and spoken about, from time to time,” the need for more “love and kindness. ” Or, as she put it in 1993, drawing on the reflections of the Republican operative Lee Atwater as he faced death, “a little heart, a lot of brotherhood. ” “I think in this campaign I’ve tried to raise some of those themes again,” she continued. Now that she has finished a primary battle that stretched on far longer than she expected, Mrs. Clinton, speaking from her home in Chappaqua, N. Y. planned to visit the local bookstore. “I’ll finally have a break where I’ll have some time,” she said. “I love to wander around bookstores and see what strikes my fancy. ” She pointed to one book she had read recently that she said would stay with her through the general election: the swimmer Diana Nyad’s memoir, “Find a Way,” about her nearly   swim at age 64 from Cuba to Florida. “When you’re facing big challenges in your life, you can think about Diana Nyad getting attacked by the lethal sting of box jellyfishes,” she said. “And nearly anything else seems doable in comparison. ” Asked if Mr. Trump would be her “box jellyfish” over the coming months, Mrs. Clinton let out a hearty laugh, then demurred. “I don’t know about that,” she said.