Image Comics has become the latest comic book publication to take aim at Donald Trump, “beheading” the Republican presidential nominee in its latest issue, “Spawn Kills Everyone! ”[The comic strip sees Trump standing next to character Red Skull in a   with Spawn, a     waging a war against Satan. Spawn beheads both Trump and the Nazi villain, Then he swaps their heads, putting one on top of the other’s body.  “That’s more accurate! And Donald, you look great again! If I do say so myself,” Spawn says, according to an image of the panel obtained by Bleeding Cool. (Warning: Graphic Image)   It’s the second time in as many months that the GOP White House hopeful has been the unflattering subject of a comic book series. Last month, Marvel Comics cast Trump as the   in a new issue of Spiderman spinoff series  . In   Annual #1, Trump’s faced was superimposed onto supervillain Modok or M. O. D. A. A. K. (Mental Organism Designed as America’s King) a   villain with a tiny body on a mission to rule the world. SpiderGwen Annual had these treats in there.    Modaak. pic. twitter.   —   RJ Sills uchihabro77 (@animeredneck96) July 1, 2016,  In May’s Issue No. 1 of Steve Rogers: Captain America, Red Skull delivered an   speech before calling for a race war in defense of his evil empire Hydra. “I have just come from Europe —  my homeland, in fact,” Red Skull says to his minions. “And do you know what I saw there? It was an invading army. These   “refugees”  —   millions of them  —   marching across the continent, bringing their fanatical beliefs and their crime with them. They attack our women, and bomb our cities. And how do our leaders respond? Do they push them back and enforce the borders, as is our sovereign duty? Of course not. They say, ‘Here, take our food. Take our shelter. Take our way of life, and then take our lives.’ Despicable. ” As Breitbart previously reported, that issue of Captain America sought to equate criticism of the Syrian refugee crisis with Nazism.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson