SACRAMENTO  —   Hillary Clinton has arrived in California for a campaign blitz, and is parading former President Bill Clinton ahead of the June 7 primary election  —   which is looking increasingly favorable to her openly socialist opponent Sen. Bernie Sanders ( ). [In the next five days Hillary and Bill will hold a combined 30 events across California, an anxious pivot from previous plans to campaign in New Jersey on Thursday according to the Los Angeles Times. Clinton won California in 2008, but lost the nomination to  . Barack Obama ( ).  Sanders has been blanketing the state with events of his own in recent weeks. “Maybe they think this campaign is not quite over,” said Sanders of Clinton’s late California return at a Wednesday campaign rally in Palo Alto, California. Sanders and Clinton are statistically tied in a new California Field Poll released on Thursday. That poll shows California Democrats divided between the two, with 45% for Clinton and 43% for Sanders, and with a 3. 2 percent margin of error. As Breitbart News reported Thursday, this is the third poll within a week to show a similar result. Clinton opens her California scramble with a campaign event in San Diego on Thursday. Former president Bill Clinton campaigned for his wife in the city just a month ago, during which he declared. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton spoke via satellite message at San Diego’s convention center in April 2014, drawing peaceful demonstrations over Clinton’s coverup over the terror attack on Americans in Benghazi, Libya that left four dead. Pat Smith, mother of one of the four deceased, Sean Smith, joined in the protest against Clinton. She was originally scheduled to speak in person. Plans of the demonstration surfaced and just days before the event she cancelled plans to attend in person and instead gave the message via satellite. Clinton is expected to focus on foreign policy during Thursday’s midday San Diego speech. She has been focused on trying to attack presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump while Sanders has crept up in the polls. At a Wednesday Sacramento campaign rally, Trump railed against Hillary Clinton, saying he plans to “make a real run in California. ” Trump criticized Clinton’s inability to close out her competitor while he “had to close out 16 governors and senators and talented people. ” California voters have been participating in early voting and    ballot for weeks. Clinton’s   effort comes as large numbers of Californians have already made their primary election choice for president. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 