OAKLAND, Calif.  —   The beautiful millionaires arrive in couture. Cameras are there to greet them as their fans stand by on social media, craving glimpses of their   ensembles. Suddenly, however briefly, the bowels of basketball arenas are turned into the shabbiest fashion runways in the world. For all their dazzling feats on the court, N. B. A. stars have somehow made an event out of simply showing up at games. The sports world and the fashion world cannot look away, even if the setting is an underground tunnel in, say, Oracle Arena  —   approximately nine million miles from Milan. “Oh, it’s beautiful,” Sarah Oliphant, an artist who designs backdrops for fashion shows out of her studio in New York, said. She would not stage these N. B. A. arrivals any other way. “These are   people with megamoney behind them in every possible way,” Oliphant said. “But the runway is a linoleum floor and a   tunnel,” and you can see Teamsters setting up in the background. She added: “I couldn’t have even thought that up. It’s brilliant. Whoever came up with this is brilliant. ” The N. B. A. finals between the Golden State Warriors and the Cleveland Cavaliers are shaping up as one of the season’s biggest stages  —   for fashion, of course. The basketball has been decent, too, although not overly competitive. The Warriors will look to build on their     lead when the series resumes in Cleveland on Wednesday night. “You stress over outfits for days,” the Warriors’ Stephen Curry said in an interview, “and you wind up wearing it for 30 seconds when you walk from the parking lot to the locker room. ” But those 30 seconds are important. Important to broadcast partners like ESPN and Turner Sports, who have filmed these entrances throughout the postseason to help fill pregame airtime. Important to viewers at home, who want to see their favorite players behind the scenes. Important to fashion designers, who benefit from mainstream exposure. And important to the players, who have come to delight in the strange pageantry of it all. “I’ve got to make sure everything looks good coming out of the car,” Curry, the league’s most valuable player, said. “You don’t want to have a missed button or a wrinkled shirt. ” It is an oddly   environment for high fashion. Nobody made a bigger splash in recent weeks than Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, whose team fell to the Warriors in the Western Conference finals. Westbrook’s bursts of sartorial pyrotechnics  —   denim overalls one game,   blazer the next  —   were offset by an obstacle course of trash cans, ladders and heating ducts. “It’s become an event unto itself, which is kind of amazing,” Brett J. Banakis, a stage and film production designer, said. “So you’ll have Russell Westbrook wearing a lime green jumpsuit and walking past the most banal objects possible. ” Banakis has been a fan of Westbrook’s since they were students together at U. C. L. A. where Westbrook played basketball and Banakis played trombone in the marching band. (They were once on the same charter flight to the Final Four, Banakis said.) Banakis said it made sense for   players to embrace their opportunities to flash some individual style, even if their milieu is a loading dock. “Most of the time, you see them wearing uniforms,” he said. “So this is really their only moment to say, ‘This is me. ’” Oliphant, the backdrop designer, is not a huge basketball fan  —   “I usually choose the team that has the nicest colors and costumes,” she said  —   but she has been transfixed by the clips of players arriving for games. Oliphant cited the authenticity of the whole setup. Consider the Cavaliers’ LeBron James, who, seconds after arriving at Oracle for Game 1 on Thursday night, deposited some personal items in a small plastic tub before he went through a metal detector. He even had to wait in line behind a couple of team officials. (LeBron: Just like us!) “It wouldn’t have the same effect if you took all these guys and you put them up at Lincoln Center in one of the big   venues,” Oliphant said. “I could even paint them a giant backdrop, but it wouldn’t be the same. It would no longer be accessible to my nephew who would never watch something on fashion. ” Curry said he did not realize that he needed to care about his   pregame walk to the locker room until he made his first playoffs appearance with the Warriors in 2013. All of a sudden, camera crews were waiting for him. He knew then that he had to put more effort into his attire. It has become an important part of his game day ritual. “I would wear most of this stuff anyway, especially for the playoffs,” he said. “You want to feel good for each game. ” While television has used player arrivals as pregame fodder for years, social media has given these small moments greater currency. They have also become much more involved productions. Nian Fish, a creative director and producer of fashion shows and events, said she was struck by the work of the film crews. “You can see a guy holding up a big floodlight because they’re obviously going through this dark tunnel,” Fish said. “So I’m like, wow, that’s really amazing that they’re doing a lighting production to create a video of this, their own version of the red carpet. They’re really producing this shot. ” All for a few seconds of video. There are other logistical hurdles, said Tim Corrigan, a senior coordinating producer for ESPN. Because home and visiting teams often arrive at different entrances, Corrigan assigns crews to camp out at each location. Players also show up at various times. When the Warriors are on the road, for example, they have three buses that leave for the arena in   increments. By now, ESPN’s crew knows that Curry tends to take the last bus, which usually pulls in about two hours before the game. Once he arrives, Curry takes measured steps past the assembled masses, his strides slow but purposeful. “It’s a normal walk,” the assistant coach Bruce Fraser said, “for someone who knows someone else is staring at him. ” Other players are more elusive. Corrigan recalled how Ray Allen, the former N. B. A. player, liked to show up so early for games that he often took a taxi from the team hotel. Marreese Speights, a reserve forward with the Warriors, tries to avoid the cameras altogether. His strategy? Take the last bus to road games and be the last player to disembark, his hope being that everyone will have vacated the premises then. Besides, Speights has no illusions that the cameras are there for him. “People want to see their favorite players all dressed up,” he said. The spotlight that follows Curry does not affect everyone. Steve Kerr, the Warriors’ coach, often shows up for home games in a   and sweatpants. (He carries his suit in a garment bag.) Others take greater pains to be more fashion forward. James Michael McAdoo, a   forward, has friends who send him news clippings and video snippets of Curry that just happen to feature McAdoo standing in the background. McAdoo does not want to look like a slob. “My wife makes sure I dress up for the finals,” he said. “I let her iron my shirts. I pick out my outfit a little bit earlier. It’s not like I just wake up from my nap and throw on whatever. Let’s make sure I have something that’s a little choreographed for each game. ” Curry has become an active participant in the whole process. He goes so far as to watch clips of other players making their arena entrances. “All the time,” Curry, whose competitive drive extends beyond the court, said. “You want to see what the other guys are doing. ”