  Melbourne, Australia, has witnessed more than one shooting a week every week on average since January 2015. [According to The Age, “Crimes associated with firearm possession have also more than doubled, driven by the easy availability of handguns,   rifles, shotguns and, increasingly, machine guns, that are smuggled into the country or stolen from licensed owners. ” In fact, “criminals are now better armed than at any time since   Minister John Howard introduced a nationwide firearm buyback scheme in response to the 1996 Port Arthur massacre. ”  It is interesting to note that Hillary Clinton praised Howard’s gun confiscation scheme during an October 16 town hall, describing it as “worth looking at” for policy in the U. S. Yet the example of Melbourne shows the outcome of such confiscatory policy is an environment more reminiscent of Chicago than utopia. For example, The Age points out that gun crime became extremely elevated in March 2016 with “two shootings a day for a week” and police “seizing a firearm every two days. ” And in October —  the very month that Clinton was praising Australia’s gun ban —  “a    father was killed and his    son wounded in a   shooting on a Thomastown home that now appears to be a tragic case of mistaken identity. ” Such   incidents are now commonplace in the   suburbs of Melbourne. The Age summarizes: In his latest book, The War on Guns: Arming Yourself Against Gun Control Lies, John R. Lott Jr. gives readers a glimpse at the impotency of gun control in Australia as a whole. He points out that the confiscatory policies that took in and destroyed over one million guns in 1996 and 1997 had —  for all intents and purposes —  been undone by 2010, when “the number of privately owned guns was back to the 1996 level. ” Lott writes, “While Australia’s population grew by 19 percent between 1997 and 2010, the total number of guns soared by 45 percent. ” AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.