MONTERREY, Nuevo León  —   Cartel hitmen continue a ruthless fight for control of the lucrative   distribution of narcotics in this border state. [The most recent violence took place on Friday night into Saturday morning when cartel gunmen executed two unidentified men. One of the victims appears to have been mistaken for a Mexican soldier and was shot on sight, unofficial information provided to Breitbart Texas by state authorities revealed.    The second victim was kidnapped on Friday morning only to be executed hours later by a group of gunmen who dumped his body in a city street.  The murders appear to be part of an ongoing turf war between the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas Vieja Escuela faction who have been trying to muscle out the Beltran Leyva cartel (known in the U. S. as the BLO or Beltran Leyva Organization). As Breitbart Texas has reported in the past, the Vieja Escuela Z has been carrying out a violent struggle against the rival Los Zetas faction known as Cartel Del Noreste (CDN). The Beltran Leyva has been an   ally of the Los Zetas cartel and is believed to have sided with the CDN, intelligence information leaked to Breitbart Texas by state investigators revealed.  The fight against the BLO was revealed last month when cartel gunmen kidnapped and murdered    Marcelino Rodriguez Falcon. His remains were left as a message to a man named El Cochi. The victim was left behind with a clown mask and a hand gesture scrawled on his stomach area to El Cochi. The nickname is used by Eleazar “Cochi or Comandante 19” Palomo Castillo the BLO leader who is in charge of the drug distribution in the upscale neighborhood of San Pedro, Nuevo Leon.  During a recent hit, cartel gunmen riding in two SUV’s pulled up to a bar in the outskirts of Garcia, a suburb of Monterrey. The gunmen got out of the vehicles and shot one man in the head a second victim was kidnapped only to be executed shortly after.  Authorities responded to the scene and found the body of the first victim clutching a black briefcase inside of the bar. Residents responded to a second call, 30 minutes later, when the gunmen pulled up to another neighborhood where they shot the second victim in the head and fled the area. Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas, Coahuila and Nuevo León to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities.  The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by Tony Aranda from Monterrey, Nuevo León. 