HOUSTON, Texas  —   Deputies with the Harris County Precinct 4 Constables office arrested two individuals for allegedly forcing a teenage runaway into prostitution. [The deputies responded to call at a north Houston motel about a suspicious person. Upon investigation, the deputies discovered a    female who had allegedly been beaten and forced into prostitution, according to a information provided to Breitbart Texas by from Constable Mark Herman’s office. The young girl begged the deputies to return her to safety.  The constable’s office dispatched a human trafficking investigator from the department’s Criminal Investigation Division. The investigator determined the teen had run away from a Children’s Protective Service (CPS) foster home. She reported that she ran off with her adult boyfriend. The teenager reported she was turned out and forced to commit acts of prostitution by two people who have since been taken into custody. The young girl begged to be returned to CPS protection. The investigator made contact with CPS and turned her over to them with a recommendation that she receive victim services. Detectives located the suspects alleged to have forced the girl into prostitution. Anthony Rideaux and Lashera “Nikki” Powell were arrested on a 1st degree felony charge of Compelling Prostitution of a Minor. Investigators stated the two may have been involved in sex trafficking other victims as well. The victim had met the two at the motel where she had been staying. Investigators stated the duo would force the teen to prostitute herself through violence. They would then confiscate the money she earned by performing sexual acts. The investigators are reportedly analyzing evidence collected in a search of the couple’s motel room and believe they will be able to identify and locate other victims. Rideaux and Powell are currently in the Harris County Jail pending a $20, 000 bond. Court records obtained by Breitbart Texas reveal this is not Rideaux’s first time in the Harris County Jail. In 2004 the man was sentenced to four days in county jail for a misdemeanor assault conviction. He was credited with time served and released. Court records revealed the man had choked his victim with his arm and caused bodily injury. He pled no contest to the charge. Powell does not have any other criminal record in Harris County. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.