Gordie Howe, one of the greatest and most durable players in the history of hockey, who powered his Detroit Red Wings teams to four Stanley Cup championships and was 52 years old when he finally hung up his skates, died on Friday in Ohio. Howe  —   Mr. Hockey to the sports world  —   was 88. The Red Wings said he died at the home of his son Murray in the Toledo area. Howe, who received a diagnosis of dementia in 2012, had a stroke in 2014 that impaired his speech and movement. Wayne Gretzky was celebrated as the Great One for his scoring prowess. Bobby Orr was recognized as hockey’s incomparable defenseman. But Howe, who learned the game on the frozen ponds of Saskatchewan, could do it all, and he kept at it after his hair had turned silver and he had become a grandfather. “If you were ever going to make a mold for a hockey player with five strengths  —   offense, defense, durability, toughness and versatility  —   you wouldn’t look past Gordie Howe,” Scotty Bowman, the N. H. L. ’s leader in coaching victories and a   Stanley Cup winner, once said. “In my estimation, he was the best ever. ” Gretzky idolized Howe as a young player, wearing his No. 9 in amateur leagues and donning red and white socks to copy Howe’s Red Wings attire. “There’s one Gordie Howe, and it’s as simple as that,” Gretzky said when he closed in on Howe’s career points record in 1989. “I’m not ever trying to replace him. ” Howe played professional hockey for 32 seasons, most of them with the Red Wings. Playing at right wing, he scored with subtle maneuvers at a time when the slap shot had yet to become a favorite offensive weapon and defensive play was strong. He handled the puck magnificently, setting up teammates with precise passes. He inflicted crushing body checks and   elbows or   on opponents who had incurred his ire. There was hockey’s traditional hat trick  —   three goals by a player in a single game  —   and what became known as the Howe hat trick: a goal, an assist and a fight. At 6 feet and 205 pounds, Howe was relatively big for his era and had a body   for hockey, with long arms, a strong torso and outstanding balance. Playing before helmets were required, he endured numerous injuries and some 500 stitches in his face. He almost died during the 1950 playoffs when he crashed into the boards trying to check Ted Kennedy, a star forward with the Maple Leafs Howe sustained a fractured skull and had emergency surgery to relieve pressure on his brain. Howe teamed with his fellow Hall of Famers Sid Abel at center and Ted Lindsay at left wing on a unit known as the Production Line when the Red Wings dominated the league in the early 1950s. “Pinpoint passing,” Abel once said. “They used to say that if you blindfolded us, we’d still be able to find one another. All of us knew where everyone else was at any given moment. ”’ ”By the time Howe retired for the second and final time in 1980 as the oldest player in N. H. L. history, he had set records for most seasons (26) games played (1, 767) goals (801) assists (1, 049) and points (1, 850). He won both the Hart Trophy as the N. H. L. ’s most valuable player and the Art Ross Trophy as the league’s top points scorer six times.” ’Orr, who starred with the Boston Bruins, marveled at Howe’s blend of supreme talent and combativeness. “He has the reputation of being a tough player and using his elbows and so on,” Orr told USA Today in 1999. “But Gordie Howe can play any way you want him to play. You want to play tough, you play tough. You want to just play, you play. He didn’t shy away from anything. He was the total package. ” Howe was named a   or   N. H. L.   21 times. The four Stanley Cups he helped the Red Wings win came in 1950, ’52, ’54 and ’55, when the N. H. L. was a fiercely competitive   league. After playing for Detroit from 1946 to 1971, he had seemingly retired. But after two seasons off the ice, he teamed with his sons Mark, a future Hall of Fame defenseman, and Marty, a left wing, for six seasons in the World Hockey Association and in a final year with the N. H. L. ’s Hartford Whalers. In his 25 seasons with the Red Wings, Howe was among the N. H. L. ’s top five scorers for 20 consecutive years. At 50, he led his team, the New England Whalers of the W. H. A. in scoring with 96 points. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1972 during his first retirement, the normal   waiting period having been waived. Hailed throughout the hockey world, Howe was especially revered in Detroit, much like the Tigers’ Ty Cobb and boxing’s Joe Louis. Montreal Canadiens right wing Maurice Richard, the only challenger to Howe’s   in their era, may have had greater flair as a shotmaker, but Howe was the more complete player. Eddie Shore, the Bruins’ Hall of Fame defenseman of the 1920s and ’30s, was the original Mr. Hockey. Howe once recalled: “He saw me play a game and I hadn’t scored a goal, but defensively I came in handy a few times. He came over and he just congratulated me and said, ‘You’re playing the game the way it should be played. ’” Gordon Howe was born on March 31, 1928, in Floral, Saskatchewan his family moved to nearby Saskatoon when he was a few days old. He grew up there as the fifth of nine children, playing hockey outdoors with makeshift equipment, the prairie winds raging and temperatures far below zero. “We had to play with a tennis ball instead of a puck,” he once recalled. “The ball would get so hard we’d have to get new ones all the time. A woman next door used to warm them up in an oven for us. ” He honed his physique by doing construction work with his father. At age 14, Gordie lifted five   bags of cement at a time while building sidewalks. Howe signed with the Red Wings organization at 16, spent two years in the juniors and minors, then made his N. H. L. debut at Olympia Stadium in Detroit on Oct. 16, 1946, scoring against the Toronto Maple Leafs goalie and future Hall of Famer Turk Broda. Howe never equaled what had been the   goal record of 50, set by the Canadiens’ Richard in   falling one goal short eight seasons later. But he broke Richard’s career goal mark of 544 in 1963. Howe retired in 1971 to take a   post with the Red Wings, presumably intending to remain off the ice. But he was given little to do, and he returned to the game in 1973 when the W. H. A. was created, gaining an opportunity to play with his teenage sons under a $2 million, multiyear deal with the Houston Aeros. Howe scored 174 goals in the W. H. A. playing with his sons through four seasons with Houston and two with the New England Whalers. In   the three Howes played together in the N. H. L. when the New England team, having been renamed the Hartford Whalers, joined the league after the dissolution of the W. H. A. Howe scored 15 goals and had 26 assists in his final N. H. L. season. At the age of 69, he took a   turn on Oct. 3, 1997, for the International Hockey League’s Detroit Vipers to become hockey’s only   professional. As skilled as he was, Howe could be a brutal player adept at retaliating for a slight when the referee was not looking. “It’s a man’s game,” he once said. “You have to be tough to survive. I learned right off that throwing the first spear was the best way. ” Stan Mikita, the Chicago Blackhawks’ Hall of Fame center, once told The Detroit Free Press what happened after he cut Howe under the eye early in his career. “A couple of minutes later at the Olympia, we were both turning in the Wings’ end. The next thing I remember I was at the Chicago bench, my head is killing me. Our backup goalie, Denis DeJordy, said he was the only one in the building who saw what happened. Gordie had skated by me, slipped his right hand up under his armpit, pulled out his fist, popped me in the jaw and put his glove back on. “A few shifts later, he ambled by and asked if I learned anything. I said, ‘Are we even?’ Gordie says, ‘I’ll think about it. ’” Howe and his wife, Colleen, were a savvy couple off the ice. Colleen, his agent in his last years in hockey, formally registered the name Mr. Hockey and developed extensive family business enterprises along with his endorsements. They promoted the Howe Foundation for charitable work. She was found to have Pick’s disease, a rare form of dementia, in 2002 and died seven years later at 76. In addition to his sons Mark, the director of pro scouting for the Red Wings Marty and Murray, a physician, Howe is survived by his daughter, Cathy Purnell a sister, Helen Cummine nine grandchildren and four  . His brother Vic, who played briefly for the Rangers in the 1950s, died last year. When he neared his 75th birthday, Howe spoke of the key to his long career. “There is no doubt in my mind that it was my love for the game,” he told The Free Press. “To succeed, you’ve got to love what you’re doing. I tell kids, if you don’t love it, get out of the way for someone who does. ”