MYRTLE BEACH, South Carolina  —   GOP frontrunner billionaire Donald Trump and his chief rival for the 2016 GOP presidential nomination, Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) will take their battle on the road to Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on Saturday at the first day of the Breitbart News Network sponsored South Carolina Tea Party Coalition Convention. [Trump, who is attending an event with former Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown in New Hampshire earlier on Saturday before heading to Myrtle Beach, will speak at 4:30 p. m. Cruz will hit the stage earlier at 2:20 p. m.  Both appeared at the same conference last year before they launched their presidential campaigns, but their speeches here this year will represent the first public battle between the two of them since —  in Trump’s words —  the “bromance” between the two   GOP presidential candidates ended on the debate stage two hours south in Charleston on Thursday evening. Trump has been questioning Cruz over whether the Calgary, Canada, born Senator is a “natural born citizen” —  which the U. S. Constitution requires of presidents —  while Cruz has been fighting Trump over what Cruz says are Trump’s “New York Values. ” Those two major plot lines exploded in Charleston on Thursday at the Fox Business debate as both candidates outshone the rest of the field, most of which are   candidates, as former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and Ohio Gov. John Kasich all jockeyed for position behind Cruz and Trump. Also on Saturday, their fellow GOP presidential candidate former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee will speak 11:20 a. m. and several other major newsmakers including Sen. David Perdue ( ) and Breitbart’s own Peter Schweizer, AWR Hawkins, and Stephen K. Bannon will speak. Schweizer, the author of Clinton Cash, has upended the 2016 presidential race with revelations he made about Democratic frontrunner former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s and her husband former President Bill Clinton’s crony capitalist ties to the world’s financial elite. Hawkins, Breitbart’s Second Amendment correspondent, has been leading the way in coverage of Americans’ right to keep and bear arms —  something President Barack Obama has tried to take away from many Americans with his recent executive gun control actions —  and the focus of that issue when it comes to the future of the U. S. political landscape. Bannon, Breitbart’s Executive Chairman and the host of Breitbart News Daily which airs on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 from Monday through Friday from 6 a. m. to 9 a. m. ET, was named the “most dangerous political operative in America” in a recent     profile by Bloomberg Businessweek. The conference lasts three days and on Sunday will see former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum speak at 2:20 p. m. in addition to David Webb from SiriusXM Patriot and Rep. Mark Meadows ( ) —  the congressman behind the successful effort to remove John Boehner as Speaker of the House. Monday will see Dr. Ben Carson and South Carolina Attorney General Alan Wilson speak. The conference, now several years deep and held again at the Springmaid Beach Resort here, is being live streamed by Ground Floor Video and distributed on Breitbart News Network throughout its entirety. Those who can’t attend in person but want to watch will be able to live stream the event on Breitbart. com. In addition to the live stream, Breitbart News Network and SiriusXM Patriot are bringing Breitbart News Daily, Breitbart News Saturday and Breitbart News Sunday on the road to the convention here in Myrtle Beach for live coverage from the scene. The Saturday show will air live from inside the Convention Center from 10 a. m. to 1 p. m. ET, while the Sunday show will air from 7 p. m. to 10 p. m. ET and the Monday show will air from 6 a. m. to 9 a. m. All three shows will air as scheduled on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125. Also, on Saturday evening from 7:30 p. m. to 10:30 p. m. several of Breitbart’s editors and reporters will be hosting a Breitbart   at the Barrel Bar in Myrtle Beach. Details are available at this link.