Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 horse race.  All times eastern. 11:10:   agitators rip up American flag in San Jose, California: 11:05:   agitators attack Trump supporter, leave him bleeding: 11:03: Trump assured crowd that he won’t pay himself back with campaign donations: Trump reassured the San Jose crowd that he will not pay himself back any of the money he loaned the campaign. pic. twitter.   —   Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) June 3, 2016,  11:01:   hoodlums reportedly spat in the faces of some Trump supporters as they were leaving the rally site, according to CNN’s Sarah Murray. 11:00:   agitators burning “Make America Great Again” hat: Protesters set a Make America Great Again hat on fire pic. twitter.   —   Sara Murray (@SaraMurray) June 3, 2016,  10:59:   agitators reportedly also throwing eggs at Trump supporters in San Jose: Protesters cornering Trump supporters as they leave. This woman taunted them. They cornered her  threw eggs at her pic. twitter.   —   Sara Murray (@SaraMurray) June 3, 2016,  10:58:   agitator holding up “Viva La Raza” sign: Protestors continue down San Carlos Street #DonaldTrump pic. twitter.   —   Courtney Bennett (@courtbmedia) June 3, 2016,  10:45:   agitators burning American flag in San Jose, California: Protestors have moved to San Carlos Street while burning an American Flag. #DonaldTrump #SanJose pic. twitter.   —   Courtney Bennett (@courtbmedia) June 3, 2016,  10:40: Huge crowd at Trump’s San Jose, California rally: Easily 4000 now for Trump in San Jose, perhaps more pic. twitter.   —   Doug Sovern (@SovernNation) June 3, 2016,  10:28: Trump blasts the “dirty” and “disgusting” Washington Post for investigating the money his campaign raised for veterans. 10:20: Trump: “Hillary Clinton has to go to jail. ” Trump also blasts Clinton for saying Americans should be worried about his finger on the button, mentioning that Clinton raised her hand to go to war in Iraq. 10:18: Trump says Clinton can make more money if she makes speeches for people who can’t sleep. He says it’s tough to stay awake listening to her robotic speeches. 10:15: More rowdy   protesters: Protests at Donald Trump rally in San Jose pic. twitter.   —   Martha Mendoza (@mendozamartha) June 3, 2016,  Outside Trump rally in San Jose pic. twitter.   —   Ben Schreckinger (@SchreckReports) June 3, 2016,  10:12: Trump again says he thinks he can win California in a general election. He says he’s going to run hard in states like California and New York. He says these are two states that no other Republican would ever dare to compete in in a general election. 10:03: Trump says “anything Obama wants, she’s going for it” because “she doesn’t want to go to jail!” Trump says Clinton used to hate Obama. Talking about Clinton’s email scandal, Trump says Clinton is “guilty as hell. ” He promises it will be a “big topic on the campaign trail” if Clinton gets away with it. 10:02: Truly vulgar   agitators: People here are holding signs saying ”stop the hate” while others chant ”chinga tu madre” pic. twitter.   —   Tim Pool (@Timcast) June 3, 2016,  9:58: Trump again says Clinton “doesn’t look presidential. ” He says “we’re not going to have a country left” with “four more years of this. ” 9:55: Police presence increasing in San Jose outside of Trump’s rally: Police forming a line as #Trump protest grows quickly in San Jose pic. twitter.   —   Tim Pool (@Timcast) June 3, 2016,  9:52: Trump mentions that those at the rally must not like basketball that much. Game one of the NBA finals is being played in Oakland between Golden State and Cleveland. 9:50: Disorderly   agitators outside of Trump’s event in San Jose, California (agitators waving Mexican flags and in Mexican national team soccer jerseys): Protesters outside Trump’s San Jose rally yell at supporters walking by, rip apart signs and chant ”f**k Trump!” pic. twitter.   —   Jacob Rascon (@Jacobnbc) June 3, 2016,  9:45: In San Jose, California, Trump slams Clinton for giving a “political speech” instead of a foreign policy speech. He says Clinton’s speech was “pathetic. ” Trump predicts he will get a lot of “Bernie supporters” in November.  6:45: Trump claims that he is not  . 6:40: Sanders attacks Clinton for her Iraq War vote and Libya policy: Shorter Sanders on Clinton’s speech: Yes, but then again, she voted for the Iraq war. pic. twitter.   —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) June 2, 2016,  6:25: Miller also says that Clinton wants to put the Constitution through a “paper shredder” because she has said that Obama’s executive amnesty did not go far enough. [Miller is perhaps the one Trump surrogate who is ready for prime time and can spar with the mainstream media’s best.] 6:15: Miller says the most important factor regarding foreign policy is philosophy. He says Trump’s philosophy is “America First,” which means NATO will have to pay its fair share and no nation building. He says Clinton represents an “internationalist,   foreign policy” that seeks to   with American blood and dollars. Miller says “you have to send a message to our allies” that they have to pay their fair shares instead of being freeloaders. Miller says Clinton represents a failed “  consensus” that has proven to be “disastrous. ” Miller points out that Clinton, as Secretary of State, allowed her husband to give speeches Chinese government entities while those entities had business before Clinton’s State Department. He notes that all of this is documented in Breitbart News Senior    and Government Accountability Institute President Peter Schweizer’s Clinton Cash book. Miller says the Chinese government funneled money into the Clinton’s bank account while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State. “That is corruption on a scale beyond imagination,” Miller tells Wolf Blitzer. 6:10: On CNN, Trump’s Senior Adviser Stephen Miller says that Clinton’s decision to make this a referendum on foreign policy is the worst decision since her Libya policy. She says before   Obama was choked off by sanctions while Iraq was stabilizing. Miller says Iran is closer than ever to a nuclear weapon, Libya is in disarray, Syria is a failed state with 4 million refugees, and a more belligerent and a hostile North Korea. Miller says Clinton’s foreign policy signature is a “trail of blood and death” and says there is chaos, destruction, and death everywhere after four years of Clinton’s foreign policy. 5:55: Line to get into Trump’s San Jose event reportedly formed at 8:30 AM PST: Rep. Presidential candidate Donald Trump speaking at #SanJose Convention Center at 7pm. Line formed at 8:30am #ktvu pic. twitter.   —   Azenith Smith (@AzenithKTVU) June 2, 2016,  5:45: Trump happy to receive Ryan’s endorsement: So great to have the endorsement and support of Paul Ryan. We will both be working very hard to Make America Great Again!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 2, 2016,  5:25: Rush Limbaugh: Obama “livid” at Trump’s Twitter skills: He is livid that Trump is so creative on Twitter. He’s jealous as hell of it, and he’s angry that people respond positively to it. I told you yesterday. I told you yesterday, there’s all kinds of jealously. One of the reasons that Trump has got some opposition, is there are people jealous. There are all kinds of people in politics, in the media  —   you name it elsewhere  —   corporate America, jealous. They would love to be Trump. They would love to experience what Trump is experienced. They would love to be the focal point and the recipient of all of this positive energy, massive crowds.   5:10: Sanders courting super delegates after his campaign called “presumptive nominee” Hillary Clinton “presumptuous. ” Answering super delegate Qs Sanders said his cmpgn is ”starting to do it right now”  has ppl on phone ”as we speak” pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) June 2, 2016,  Earlier, activists again tried to rush the stage as Sanders was speaking: Protesters interrupt @BernieSanders Modesto rally forcing Secret Service to react. Sanders held position at podium. pic. twitter.   —   M. Scott Mahaskey (@smahaskey) June 2, 2016,  5:05: Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder refuses to endorse Donald Trump. He’s probably doing Trump a favor because nobody wants to be associated with Snyder after the Flint water crisis.   4:35: On CNN, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell ( ) says he would not draft legislation for Trump if Trump asked him for a bill temporarily banning Muslims. “I’d say no,” he said, adding that he’d tell him it was a “really bad idea. ” McC, 3:50: Ryan reportedly did not give Trump a heads up before endorsing him: Sources say Paul Ryan didn’t give Trump the heads up before announcing his endorsement. https:  .   —   Dianne Gallagher (@DianneG) June 2, 2016,  3:40: As Clinton tries to robotically and professorially attack Trump, keep in mind that a Quinnipiac poll found that “voters say 47  —   39 percent that they would rather invite Trump to a backyard barbecue. ” 3:36: Clinton says Donald Trump’s “got it all wrong” and says “don’t let anyone tell you America isn’t great. ” She says this election is a “choice between two very different visions of America. ” “One that’s angry, afraid and based on the idea that America is fundamentally weak and in decline,” Clinton says. “The other is hopeful, generous and confident in the knowledge that America is great just like we always have been. ” 3:35: Clinton on potential Trump presidency: “historical mistake. ” She says a Trump presidency will fuel an “ugly narrative” about who we are. 3:33: Clinton says every president faces “hard choices” every day with imperfect information. She says making the right call takes a “cool head” and “respect for the facts” and a “willingness to listen” to other’s points of view with humility. She says it also takes someone who understands he doesn’t know everything because someone who thinks he does won’t ask the tough questions. Clinton asks voters to imagine if Trump had the entire American arsenal at his disposal instead of just his Twitter account when someone angers him. “Do we want his finger anywhere near the button?” 3:31: Clinton says Trump should remember that plenty of Muslims and immigrants fight in our Armed Forces every time he insults immigrants and Muslims. She says Donald Trump can learn something from them. 3:28: Clinton blasts Trump’s Muslim ban and says it will embolden ISIS. She also says “this isn’t reality television. This is actual reality. ” She says defending the homeland takes more than “empty talk and slogans. ” 3:27: Clinton claims Trump has “no idea” how to stop ISIS. She mocks Trump’s comments about giving ISIS Syria. Clinton: “We cannot put the lives of our young men and women in uniform in Donald Trump’s hands”  —   Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) June 2, 2016,  3:23: Clinton says she can’t understand Trump’s “bizarre fascination” with dictators and strongmen who have no love for America. Clinton says Putin will eat Trump’s lunch. ”I will leave it to the psychiatrists to explain his affection for tyrants,” @HillaryClinton says of @realDonaldTrump #NBC2016,  —   Kasie Hunt (@kasie) June 2, 2016,  3:20: Clinton says there is no risk of people losing their lives if you blow up a golf course deal. She says being interviewed on 60 Minutes on the same episode as Putin doesn’t mean you can deal with him. Right on cue, Clinton says she’s willing to bet Trump is writing a few “nasty Tweets” right now. 3:19: Trump blasts Clinton’s “poor performance” reading off of a TelePrompTer: Bad performance by Crooked Hillary Clinton! Reading poorly from the telepromter! She doesn’t even look presidential!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 2, 2016,  3:16: Clinton says the Kremlin will be “celebrating” if Trump becomes president. 3:15: Paul Ryan endorses Trump for president just as Hillary Clinton talks about wanting a “confident America. ” I’ll be voting for @realDonaldTrump this fall. I’m confident he will help turn the House GOP’s agenda into laws. https:  .   —   Paul Ryan (@PRyan) June 2, 2016,  3:11: Clinton says she has sat in the Situation Room and advised Obama on some of the toughest decisions. She says she believes in “strong alliances” and a “  commitment to the values that have always made America great. ” She says she believes America is an “exceptional country” and not a country that “cowers behind walls. ” 3:10: Clinton says Trump will take America down a “truly dangerous path. ” She then robotically reads her resume. 3:09: Clinton accuses Trump of believing that America is “weak” and calling the U. S. military a “disaster. ” 3:08: Clinton says Trump believes he can treat the U. S. economy like one of his casinos and default on the debt. [Clinton, like Romney, sounds robotic attacking Trump by reading off of a TelePrompter. Trump’s “personal” attacks are much more effective because voters believe they come from the heart and weren’t written for him by consultants who reviewed hours of focus group tapes.] 3:07: Clinton says Trump temperamentally unfit to occupy the White House. “This is not someone who should ever have the nuclear codes,” she says. Clinton says it’s not hard to imaging Trump leading us into war because someone got under his “very thin skin. ” She warns against Trump “rolling the dice” with America. WATCH: Clinton: Not hard to imagine Trump leading to war ”just because somebody got under his very thin skin.” https:  .   —   NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) June 2, 2016,  3:06: Clinton says “the person the Republicans have nominated for president” can’t do the job. She says Trump’s ideas are “dangerous. ” She says they are not even ideas but bizarre rants, personal feuds, and outright lies. 3:05: Clinton says she’s going to keep America’s security at the heart of her campaign. [Trump won’t let her get away with Benghazi a la Romney in 2012] 3:00: In San Diego, California, Hillary Clinton wants to speak about a “smart and principled foreign policy” and the “choice at stake in this election. ” She says it is a choice between a “fearful America” and a “strong, confident America. ” [To show how both political establishments think and sound alike, Paul Ryan also uses “confident America. ” Not as catchy as “Make America Great Again.] 2:15: Clinton gets Puerto Rico Governor’s endorsement. Sanders gets New Hampshire super delegate. 2:08: Interesting: Clinton campaign took out the   kiss from its foreign policy video: Clinton camp posted new ”Trump doctrine” vid  —   no longer contains image of   kiss https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) June 2, 2016,  2:00: Would it be too much for the RNC to hire a    person every now and then? The RNC’s New Hispanic Media Director Bashed Trump Nonstop For Months https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Katherine Miller (@katherinemiller) June 2, 2016,  1:53: Susan Sarandon predicts Hillary Clinton indictment in an interview with MSNBC’s Chris Jansing:   Susan Sarandon on Hillary Clinton: “There’s going to be” an indictment over her email.  —   Phil Elliott (@Philip_Elliott) June 2, 2016,  1:45: Clinton getting ready to deliver her foreign policy speech (19 American flags). Will voters really care? Ask John Kerry: Here is where Hillary Clinton will deliver her Trump focused foreign policy speech. She will use a TelePrompTer. pic. twitter.   —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) June 2, 2016,    1:25: He also vows to reopen Trump University: After the litigation is disposed of and the case won, I have instructed my execs to open Trump U(?) so much interest in it! I will be pres.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 2, 2016,  1:20: Trump says Clinton is getting ready to “misrepresent my foreign policy positions. ” Crooked Hillary Clinton, who I would love to call Lyin’ Hillary, is getting ready to totally misrepresent my foreign policy positions.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 2, 2016,    1:15: Clinton campaign releases foreign policy video attacking Trump: Sooo  …     this image is part of the Clinton campaign’s new video about Trump’s foreign policy https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) June 2, 2016,  1:10: GOP establishment grand poobah Fred Malek tells MSNBC’s Andrea Mitchell that he is voting for Trump because “it’s important to reassert America’s leadership in the world” and stop the leftward lurch of the last eight years. He also says regulations and taxes will be better under a Trump administration. Malek, a graduate of West Point, says unlike Obama, says if Trump draws a line in the sand, “he means it. ” He also says Trump is “strong enough to stand up to the despots of the world” and will lead from the front and not from behind like Obama.  But Malek points out that Trump needs to exert more discipline on the campaign trail and needs to stop taking two steps forward and then two steps back. Malek wrote a column this week in the Washington Post urging Trump to stop attacking fellow Republicans after Trump eviscerated New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez, who has been harshly critical of Trump even though she owes her political career to former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin’s endorsement (many of Palin’s supporters are also Trump supporters). 1:05: CNN   Trump in chyron: Interesting use of the chyron (title graphic) by @CNN pic. twitter.   —   Anthony Rotolo (@rotolo) June 2, 2016,    1:00: Ahead of Clinton’s foreign policy address in which she will slam Trump, Trump cites Clinton’s foreign policy “monsters. ” With all of the Crooked Hillary Clinton’s foreign policy experience, she has made so many mistakes  —   and I mean real monsters! No more HRC.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 2, 2016, 