Oklahoma legislators have approved a bill that would outlaw abortion and take away the medical licenses of physicians who perform abortions if signed into law. [Opponents are threatening to sue saying the measure is unconstitutional because the U. S. Supreme Court has ruled on the issue making abortion legal. The Center for Reproductive Rights issued a press release to “strongly urge Governor Fallin to reject this cruel and unconstitutional ban. ”  The Center for Reproductive Rights urges that “The Bill contains no exceptions for the woman’s life or health and would strip physicians who provide abortion care of their medical licenses. ” A bill summary states that “It modifies the definition of abortion to include an exception to preserve the life or health of the mother. ” Planned Parenthood responded to the Oklahoma House legislative action by tweeting, “Not content with intruding in your personal decisions, OK gynoticians now want to revoke med licenses of doctors. ” Not content with intruding in your personal decisions, OK gynoticians now want to revoke med licenses of doctors. https:  .   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) April 23, 2016, “Gynotician” is the name Planned Parenthood and other   activists use for politicians who dare to insert themselves into the “reproductive rights” of women. House members approved the senate bill late on Thursday, as reported by Reuters. Senate Bill 1552 makes it a felony for any individual to perform an abortion. The House of Representatives in the Sooner State is comprised of a majority of Republicans, less than   of its members are from the Democrat Party. The Republican state senator that authored the bill, Senator Nathan Dahm, was reported to say, “This is our proper function, to protect life. ” It is not known whether the governor of the state, Governor Mary Fallin, will sign the bill into law. Although the Oklahoma governor is no stranger to social media posts, a search of her tweets and Facebook posts, are silent on the subject. There is also no press release from her office on the vote of the Oklahoma House. Governor Mary Fallin is a Republican who was elected governor in the state in 2010. She is the first female governor of Oklahoma. She is also the new chairman of the National Governor’s Association. She and her husband, Wade Christensen have six children. Governor Fallin has made jobs, the economy and education, the center of her platform in the state. As to the measure outlawing abortions, Oklahoma state representative David Brumbaugh, a Republican, was reported to say, “If we take care of morality,” “God will take care of the economy. ” The state of Oklahoma most recently made big headlines in the fall for removing the Ten Commandments from the grounds of the state capitol, as reported by Breitbart News. The state’s highest court ruled that the monument violated the state constitution because it “operates for the use, benefit or support of a sect or system of religion. ” The Oklahoma Supreme Court ordered that the monument be removed. Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and an associate judge. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2