They hit the wire together in a blur, two gray horses that had shown promise on their way to the Kentucky Derby but once beneath those iconic twin spires looked as if they hardly belonged in America’s greatest race. Maybe they had excuses. The colt named Destin had broken poorly that day and was roughed up early in the race, and Creator, who had closed like a freight train in the Arkansas Derby, barely lifted a hoof in Kentucky, clunking down the track as if wearing concrete shoes. It was not a hard decision for the trainer Todd Pletcher to bring Destin home to his barn here in New York and start over. It was a   for Steve Asmussen to try to retool Creator at Churchill Downs, where he perennially leads the trainers’ standings. As the placing judges puzzled over a     rush to the finish of the 148th running of the Belmont Stakes on Saturday, each trainer remained on edge. One of them was going to look smart, the other not smart enough. Those in the grandstand clutching betting tickets on the   grays were confessing their sins and saying their prayers: Destin went off at odds of nearly   and Creator at  . All, however, were in better spirits than the trainer Keith Desormeaux and his rider and brother, Kent, who saw the heavily favored Exaggerator first stall, then sputter at the top of stretch, ending his bid to take   of the Triple Crown. The colt that had vanquished the Kentucky Derby champ Nyquist in the Preakness was nowhere near when the real running started. In the clubhouse, Kenny Troutt, the owner of WinStar Farm, was balancing thoughts of a Belmont Stakes that he lost two years ago, and a decision that he had made earlier in the week. In the 2014 Belmont, his colt named Commissioner hit the midstretch looking every bit of the winner, but he was run down and beaten by a head by Tonalist. In Creator, however, Troutt had a   horse who turned in his optimal performances when a fast pace softened up the  . So Troutt met with his WinStar brain trust and decided to enter a swift   by the name of Gettysburg  —   a rabbit, in the parlance of the racetrack. “We needed a fast pace, and then Creator could run his race,” said Troutt, who had watched his colt come from 10 lengths back to win the Arkansas Derby. It was tricky, though. Troutt had to take Gettysburg from the barn of Pletcher, one of his main trainers (in fact, they won the 2010 Derby together) and give him to Asmussen to enter in the Belmont. Troutt knew that Pletcher already had Destin and Stradivari, another contender, in the race. “It was not an easy decision,” Troutt said. “I felt like it was the right thing to do was to realign the camps because Todd had the second and third choice in the race, and I just felt like it would be easier on him to answer to his other owners it would be easier on us if we realign the camp for this race. ” Pletcher became one of the nation’s leading trainers by keeping powerful owners happy so his large,   stable remains that way. This time it cost him a third Belmont Stakes victory. Gettysburg’s rider, Paco Lopez, gunned his colt to the lead and laid down testing fractions of 48. 48 seconds for a   and 1 minute 13. 28 seconds for   a pace that more often than not wobbles the legs of horses trying Belmont’s     distance for the first and usually last time. Through a mile, the pace thinned the ranks of   challengers, who did not include Nyquist, who was withdrawn weeks ago because of illness. Governor Malibu and Stradivari could not keep up. And Exaggerator? He feigned a move coming around the turn. “I put him down for a mad drive and said, show me your stuff, but there was nothing there,” said Kent Desormeaux, who wrapped up the Preakness winner and allowed him to galumph home in 11th place. Through a mile, Javier Castellano, aboard Destin, had waited patiently for Lopez and Gettysburg to run out of gas. When they did, he shot past them like a bullet train and set Destin’s gaze on the finish line. Behind him, however, Irad Ortiz Jr. had Creator in full flight. They had been blasting past horses two at a time and were bounding down the middle of the stretch as if skipping from one trampoline to another. “When we got clear, he started running,” Ortiz said. In the clubhouse, Asmussen had watched Ortiz save yards by deftly slicing through openings without having to slow Creator down. Now he knew that it was going to be a matter of inches if his colt was going to pass the Test of the Champion, as this grueling marathon is known. Creator pulled alongside Destin, and they matched strides for 10, 20, 30 yards. Asumussen’s counterpart, Pletcher, meanwhile, was alternating between his binoculars and watching the video board, hoping the wire would get there. Soon. It did not. Ortiz extended his arms once, twice, and with a final surge got past Castellano and Destin by a nose. Pletcher’s onetime horse Gettysburg had done his job well enough to deprive him of another Belmont Stakes to go along with the ones he had earned in 2007 with Rags to Riches and in 2013 with Palace Malice. “Tough beat,” Pletcher said stoically. It was WinStar and Asmussen who looked like geniuses, bringing home an $800, 000   check to boost the colt’s earnings past $1. 5 million. His final time of 2. 28. 51 was good enough to deliver a $34. 80 win ticket to those who risked $2 on him. “He was the perfect horse by inches,” Asmussen said. “That’s how you have to be on big race days. ”