Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 horse race.   —   All times eastern. 10:45: On Fox News, Brewer says the federal government has not protected Americans from illegal immigrants and Trump will. Arpaio says Trump will “act” on illegal immigration and “finally” we’ll get something more than just talk. 10:25: Trump says the powerful “lobbies” want illegal immigration. He says Cruz is also beholden to the lobbyists who do the wrong thing for the country. Trump says he is   the campaign and could have raised five times as much as Bush if he wanted to do so. . @realDonaldTrump: ”We’ve got to let our coal people be coal people. This was a great industry. We have to make [USA] energy independent.”  —   Fox News (@FoxNews) March 22, 2016,  10:22: In Hannity’s town hall event, Trump says he will secure the border immediately. He notes that the border agents have his back and cites a story on the Drudge Report. He says Arpaio doesn’t get enough credit for the job he has done re: illegal immigration. . @realDonaldTrump: ”Not even fair trade, I want smart trade.” #Hannity pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) March 22, 2016,  10:19: Sanders says it is “nonsense” that the Clinton campaign is claiming that he is polling better against Trump because he has not been vetted yet. Sanders says a lot of “crap” has been thrown against him while he was running for various offices in Vermont. Sanders says Democrats will support him and he will do better with independents who for, whatever reason, are uncomfortable with Clinton. 10:14: Trump on Fox News: . @realDonaldTrump: ”I have tremendous respect for women  …    I am the least racist person.” #Hannity pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) March 22, 2016,  . @realDonaldTrump: ”When they say they want to run against you, that means they don’t want to run against you.” pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) March 22, 2016,  10:11: Sanders says we should normalize relations with Cuba “in every respect,” especially since Americans can go to   Arabia even though they are not democracies “but for some reason, you can’t go to Cuba. ” Sanders admits Cuba is a dictatorship, but says: ”Have some good things been done in Cuba, yes?” #FinalFive,  —   Zach Wolf (@zbyronwolf) March 22, 2016,  10:03: Sanders says he has shown much better judgment than Clinton on foreign policy and cites his vote against the Iraq War as proof. He blasts Clinton for praising Henry Kissinger and says he and Clinton look at foreign policy in different ways. He wants a foreign policy that works for Israel, the Palestinians and people throughout the world. He wants America to provide more economic assistance in the Middle East and do more re: water issues and the “devastation in Gaza. ” He wants money to go into the region for schools, infrastructure, healthcare instead of for weapons of mass destruction. He says Israel has the right to defend itself but won’t commit to providing the same amount of foreign aid for Israel for military infrastructure. Re: Jerusalem, Sanders says “I don’t know the answer to that one as well” when asked if he believes Jerusalem should be the capital and the embassy moved to Jerusalem. 10:01: On CNN, Sanders says the security and independence of Israel must remain “in tact” but “we’ve also got to work with the Palestinians” and recognize that in Gaza, there is an unemployment rate of 44% and “people living in horrific poverty” and a community “that has been destroyed. ” He says America cannot “just take the side of Israel” and he says America has not been “evenhanded” in the region and looked the other way when Israel has done “bad things. ” 9:59: Trump Senior Adviser Miller on NATO: Stephen Miller, Trump campaign: ”@NATO is an org. made many decades ago that is incongruent with our current foreign policy challenges.”  —   Fox News (@FoxNews) March 22, 2016,  9:54: Clinton says she doesn’t hear pundits saying male candidates should smile more or are yelling too much and will “leave it at that” when Cooper asks if those criticisms are sexist. 9:51: Clinton doesn’t buy that Sanders does better against Republicans than she does. She says any horse race poll that far out is “meaningless. ” The same logic should be applied to Trump’s polls. She says she has been   and that is why she is the strongest candidate. 9:48: Clinton scrambles when asked if illegal immigrants are being rewarded for breaking the law if they are allowed to stay. She says they need to pay a fine, go to the end of the line and she says she doesn’t “see the purpose” in breaking up families. 9:46: Hillary: Illegal Immigrants Should Be Able to Purchase Obamacare, On CNN, Clinton is asked whether she wants to extend Obamacare to illegal immigrants. She says illegal immigrants should be able to purchase Obamacare plans if they can afford to buy it. But she doesn’t want the subsidies to apply to illegal immigrants because that has to be worked out through comprehensive immigration reform. Chelsea overstated Hillary stance on Obamacare for undocumented immigrants. Hillary says exchanges yes, subsidies no pic. twitter.   —   Teddy Davis (@TeddyDavisCNN) March 22, 2016,    Clinton on Garland: Clinton REFUSES to say whether she would nominate Merrick Garland if she becomes president. ”I think that’s getting way ahead of ourselves.”  —   Manu Raju (@mkraju) March 22, 2016,  9:43: Cruz says Rubio would be on any VP shortlist after Rubio reported rejected a unity ticket: Cruz: I think any Republican would naturally have Marco on their shortlist, would look at seriously to him” as a vice presidential candidate,  —   Betsy Klein (@betsy_klein) March 22, 2016,  Cruz on Rubio: “I think he would add an enormous amount to the team. ”  —   Betsy Klein (@betsy_klein) March 22, 2016,  POLITICO: Marco Rubio rejected ’unity ticket’ with Ted Cruz https:  .   —   Jesse Rodriguez (@JesseRodriguez) March 22, 2016,  9:31: After airing Trump’s interview that had previously aired earlier in the day, CNN is now airing Clinton’s interview with Cooper. She says “on balance” the Iran Deal was the rights step to take but the “slightest infraction” must have consequences. She says it has to be “distrust but verify. ” On Donald Trump, she says he has been engaging in “bluster” and “bigotry” and there are “serious questions” about his qualifications. He says Trump would qualify as a “bully” for inciting his supporters to “go after” protesters. “Who knows?” Clinton says when Cooper asks if there is a “different Donald Trump” that she knows of. When Cooper asks if the skills used in business are the same ones involved in running government, Clinton says you have much more control over employees in a business than in government. Clinton says “in general” there is a difference and Trump’s behavior raises “questions about what he will do. ” Clinton says potentially moving the U. S. Embassy to Jerusalem is something that has to be looked at in a potential   solution. She says she favors using the U. S.’s veto power in the U. N. to protect Israel. She says she was the last person who brought Netanyahu and Abbas together. She says she got more encouragement to pursue a   solution after listening to that meeting along with George Mitchell. Clinton says if Cruz moves the U. S. Embassy to Jerusalem on the first day of his presidency, that would end any chance of attaining a   solution. She says it could make things more dangerous for Israel.   8:48: Cruz says his staff and Rubio’s staff have not had any conversations about a   unity ticket. Cruz again states that he will support Trump if he becomes the nominee but insists Trump will not be the nominee. 8:47: Cruz says he will win a contested convention against Trump if Trump can’t secure enough delegates before the convention. 8:45: Cruz says he has “zero interest” in being Trump’s vice president and says Trump may be the only candidate Clinton can beat in a general election. 8:43: Cruz says every time Trump gets scared, he starts lashing out and insulting people. Cruz says Trump’s entire campaign is built on a lie. He says the lie behind Trump’s campaign is that he’ll stand up to Washington. Cruz says Trump has made millions buying influence in Washington while Clinton has made millions selling influence in Washington. [Tony Lee: People aren’t buying this argument because they think Trump knows the system and will fight for the   as fiercely as he gamed the system for himself. Will say it again —  Trump is the athlete people hate but would love to have on their team.] 8:41: Cruz says it was a “remarkable miracle” for Graham to hold a fundraiser for him after recently “calling for my murder. ” He says that is a sign of Republicans uniting around his campaign because it is the only that has repeatedly beaten and can beat Trump. 8:26: Cruz says he listened to some of Trump’s speech and it is clear he hired someone to write the speech for him. Cruz says when Trump says he wants to be “neutral” re:   he is buying into the “moral equivalency” pushed by the media. Cruz says Trump is an interesting character because he can have multiple policy positions in a day. Cruz says in order to have a peace deal, the Palestinians need to recognize Israel as a Jewish State and renounce terrorism, stop paying the families of terrorists. He says   both accept “moral equivalency. ” He says Trump’s knowledge of the world is limited and again dings him for referring to “Palestine. ” Cruz says   won’t move the embassy to Jerusalem. Cruz says moving the embassy to Jerusalem will send a message to our friends and allies. “It makes a statement to every one of our allies that America is back,” Cruz says. He says though Iran will be furious, it makes a statement to the radical Islamic terrorists that America will stand up to them and the era of appeasement under   is over. Cruz defends foreign policy adviser Frank Gaffney, and he praises Gaffney’s work fighting jihadism and potential EMP attacks. When Blitzer keeps pushing him on Gaffney’s past quotes, Cruz says he refuses to play the media’s “gotcha” game and wants to talk about issues Americans care about. He blasts Obama for sipping mojitos with Communist dictators in Cuba but not having the time to meet with dissidents. He blasts the left for glorifying “chic” dictators.   8:20: Kasich says Trump’s language re: riots is “not acceptable” but does not answer question re: whether he will call the Ohio National Guard for the convention. 8:18: Kasich blasts Romney for his robocalls. He notes that CNN’s poll found him doing the best against Clinton in the general. He says he has the   policy experience to beat Clinton. When asked about Cruz’s comments that Kasich is auditioning to be Trump’s vice president, Kasich says there is “zero” chance he will be the vice president for either. 8:15: Kasich again says he favors a path to legalization and not citizenship re: immigration. He’s given the answer about 767, 765. 46484 times this election season. And reporters keep asking him the same question. [Tony Lee: At some point, these candidate forums that the networks have to get ratings become tedious. Viewers may want to just rather watch NIT basketball, the women’s NCAA tournament or even shows like Gotham and Castle. Town hall events where regular people get to ask unscripted questions are much more compelling.] 8:02: CNN reporters are interviewing the five candidates tonight. First up is Kasich with Anderson Cooper. He says there could be some   communications that could lead to peace in the Middle East. When asked about Jerusalem being the “eternal capital” of Israel, Kasich says “take the statement for what it is. It is the eternal capital of Israel. ” Kasich, responding to Trump’s comments on NATO, says we have to strengthen NATO because “we want our allies to share intelligence with us” and they have to be in the coalition that would destroy ISIS. He says he would never speak like Trump re: NATO because you have to be careful what you say as a leader. “He’s dead wrong on NATO,” he says. Kasich says it was a “terrible mistake” to overthrow Qaddafi in Libya.   8:00: Joel Pollak’s grades for all of the candidates at AIPAC. 7:28: According to one reporter, crowd more enthusiastic about Trump than Cruz: Ted Cruz just gave a     speech to AIPAC, and he got less applause than Donald Trump did. What a year what a year.  —   Daniel Dale (@ddale8) March 21, 2016,    ”Am Yisrael chai,” Ted Cruz concludes to an AIPAC roar.  —   Daniel Dale (@ddale8) March 21, 2016,  7:22: Networks don’t want to air candidates who are predictable, repeat the same lines over and over and over again in the same tone: I love @TedCruz and have no doubt he loves #Israel, but this is basically a rehash of talking points from the past several   #AIPAC,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 21, 2016,  I liked @tedCruz’s speech the first few times I heard it. #AIPAC,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 21, 2016,  7:20: Cruz says our aid to Israel is not “charity” but furthering the national security interests of America. “The nation of Israel like America is a beacon of light unto the world,” Cruz says, using his father’s story to explain his Israel stance.  —   Shane Goldmacher (@ShaneGoldmacher) March 21, 2016,  7:19: Cruz says “Israel is not the barrier to peace” but the Palestinian Authority and its unity government with hamas that celebrates terror. Cruz: I would fly to New York to personally veto UN resolution myself. #AIPAC2016,  —   Moment Magazine (@MomentMagazine) March 21, 2016,  7:13: Cruz asks attendees if he had asked them years ago  to imagine if the Prime Minister of Israel would address a joint session of Congress and the president, vice president, and leading Democrats would boycott the speech  …     Cruz says, unlike Trump, he will not be “neutral” and America will stand “unapologetically” with Israel. Cruz also says he will reimpose sanctions on Iraq on the first day he is in office. 7:09: Cruz blasts Clinton for once saying that Hamas puts rockets in schools because Gaza is “densely populated. ” Cruz also immediately pronounces Purim correctly, as crowd cheers compared to Clinton’s flub earlier in day,  —   Shane Goldmacher (@ShaneGoldmacher) March 21, 2016,  7:05: Cruz on Graham fundraiser: Cruz:Lindsey Graham hosted fundraiser for me today, which should ”allay any doubts that God of Abraham, Isaac  Jacob can still do miracles”  —   Jessica Taylor (@JessicaTaylor) March 21, 2016,  Graham hosted a fundraiser for Cruz at Clyde’s, the bar next door to the Verizon Center, raised more than $200, 000 per fundraising source,  —   Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) March 21, 2016,  7:03: Cruz, taking a shot at Trump and echoing George Will’s criticism, opens his speech by saying that Palestine has not existed since 1948. Unfortunate time slot for Ted Cruz. Lots of empty seats now. #AIPAC2016,  —   Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) March 21, 2016,  6:53: Trump calls Hamas the “Palestinian ISIS” and says we will move our embassy to Jerusalem (“eternal capital”). “And we will send a clear signal that there is no daylight between American and our most reliable ally, the state of Israel,” he says. Trump says the Palestinians must come to the table knowing that the bond between the United States and Israel is “absolutely, totally unbreakable. ” Trump says Palestinians must come to the table willing to stop the terror that is committed daily against Israel. He says they also must accept that Israel is a Jewish state and will forever exist as a Jewish state. Establishment and media must eat crow. No boos for Trump. No mass walkouts. #AIPAC2016,  —   Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) March 21, 2016,  Before: Watch! Trump will fail! After: Nah, it meant nothing. #AIPAC2016 https:  .   —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 21, 2016,  “I love the people in this room,” Trump says. “I love Israel. ” Trump says he and his father have received some of the biggest honors from Israel. He says his daughter Ivanka is about to have a “beautiful, Jewish baby. ” Trump concludes by saying his daughter Ivanka is ”about to have a beautiful Jewish baby.” Standing ovation from AIPAC. So much for tension.  —   Daniel Dale (@ddale8) March 21, 2016,    on Twitter hating this speech, which confirms it is good. #AIPAC,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 21, 2016,  “My daughter Ivanka is about to have. A beautiful. Jewish. Baby. ”  —   @realDonaldTrump wins #AIPAC,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 21, 2016,  Standing ovation for Trump to conclude the speech. He really killed it for these guys.  —   Zack Beauchamp (@zackbeauchamp) March 21, 2016,  No walkout on Trump at AIPAC. Standing ovation over Iran deal just now pic. twitter.   —   Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) March 21, 2016,  Trump getting a standing ovation at #AIPAC2016 Yes, a standing ovation. pic. twitter.   —   Joshua Davidovich (@JMDavido) March 21, 2016,  STANDING OVATION from @realDonaldTrump at #AIPAC2016,  —   Ali Dukakis (@ajdukakis) March 21, 2016,  6:50: Trump says in Palestinian textbook and mosques, there is a hatred that has been “fermenting for years” and they have to “end the education of hatred and they have to end it now. ” He says there is no “moral equivalency” because Israel does not name public squares after terrorists and Israel does not pay Palestinians to stab random Israelis. He says what Obama gets wrong about dealmaking is he puts pressure on our friends and rewards our enemies. 6:47: Trump says when he becomes president, the days of treating Israel like a “  citizen will end on day one. ” He says “and when I say something, I mean it. ” Trump says he will meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu immediately. He says he has known him for many years and he will work with him to bring peace to Israel and the entire region. Trump says there are children being taught every day to hate Israel and the Jews. “It has to stop,” he says. “When  you live in a society where the firefighters are the heroes, little kids want to be firefighters. When you live in a society where athletes and movie stars are the  heroes, little kids want to be athletes and movie stars. In Palestinian society, the heroes are those who murder Jews. We can’t let this continue. ” Trump says you can’t have peace when martyrs are treated as heroes. 6:44: Trump says you can’t reward terror and “there’s only one way you treat that kind of behavior —  you have to confront it. ” He also says a U. N. peace deal would “delegitimize” Israel and he would veto any U. N. deal that would impose its will on the Jewish state. Looks like @realDonaldTrump is killing it at #AIPAC. Not for everyone. But as much as he needs to do. #AIPAC2016,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 21, 2016,  6:43: Crowd goes wild after Trump says “Obama in his final year —  yay!” ”Pres. Obama, in his final   yay!” @realDonaldTrump gets biggest applause all day #AIPAC2016 says O ”worst thing to happen to Israel”  —   Jared Rizzi (@JaredRizzi) March 21, 2016,  6:42: Trump now blasts the “utter weakness and incompetence of the United Nations. ” He says the UN is not a friend of “democracy,” “freedom,” “the United Staes of America. ” He says it “surely is not a friend Israel. ” 6:37: Trump says as president, America will stand up to Iran’s aggressive push to destabilize the Middle East and dominate the region. Trump says Iran provides more and better weapons to support their puppet states “literally every day. ” Trump says we will “totally dismantle Iran’s global terror network,” which is “big and powerful” but “not powerful like us. ” Trump says we must enforce the terms of the previous deal to hold Iran totally accountable and we will enforce it like “we’ve never seen a contract enforced before. Believe me. ” Trump says “Israel must be wiped off the face of the earth” is painted on missiles in  . He asks “what kind of demented” minds would write that in Hebrew? 6:34: Trump says the Iran Deal is “catastrophic” for America, Israel, and the whole of the Middle East. Trump says we have rewarded the world’s top sponsor of terror with $150 billion without receiving anything in return. He says Iran just wants to run out the clock while keeping the billions we “so foolishly gave them. ” Now @realDonaldTrump wants to “dismantle” #Irandeal. Before, he wanted to enforce it harshly (which is actually smarter policy). #AIPAC2016,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 21, 2016,  Now @realDonaldTrump wants to “dismantle” #Irandeal. Before, he wanted to enforce it harshly (which is actually smarter policy). #AIPAC2016,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 21, 2016,  ”Believe me,” Trump says to laughs when he says he has studied the Iran deal better than anyone else  —   he smiled,  —   John Santucci (@JTSantucci) March 21, 2016,  6:32: Trump says he was the Grand Marshal of the Israel Day Parade at the height of the violence between   in 2004. He says it was a dangerous time for many supporting Israel and he took the risk of accepting the honor while many turned it down. He says he is not here to pander. “I came here to speak to you about where I stand” on the future between American and our “cultural brother” and “only democracy in the Middle East” —  the state of Israel. He says his no. 1 priority is to dismantle the disastrous deal with Iran. 6:29: Trump takes the stage at AIPAC. He says “I speak to you today as a lifelong supporter and true friend of Israel. ” He says he is a “newcomer to politics” but “not to backing the Jewish state. ” 6:20: Sanders blasts media at Utah rally: At his rally in Salt Lake, @BernieSanders says that for media, ”campaign is about political gossip” rather than reality of people’s lives,  —   Elizabeth Landers (@ElizLanders) March 21, 2016,  5:55: Kasich slams Palestinians for promoting a “culture of death. ” Kasich gets another standing ovation saying ”Palestinians cannot continue to promote a culture of death” #AIPAC2016 pic. twitter.   —   Richard Walker (@rbsw) March 21, 2016,  5:50:   protesters with   imagery outside of AIPAC event: Progressive are not shy about taunting Jews with nazi imagery. #Trump2016 #DumpTrump #AIPAC #AIPAC2016 pic. twitter.   —   Progressives Today (@ProgsToday) March 21, 2016,   @realDonaldTrump protesters taunting Jews outside #AIPAC2016. pic. twitter.   —   Progressives Today (@ProgsToday) March 21, 2016,  Classy. Progressives use Hitler imagery at Jewish conference. pic. twitter.   —   Progressives Today (@ProgsToday) March 21, 2016,  5:35: Trump says there is always “drama” with Clinton and says “crazier things have happened” when asked if Cruz could possibly be his running mate. 5:34: Trump says Megyn Kelly is the one with a Trump “obsession. ” He says Kelly and Roger Ailes want him on her show for a “primetime special” so badly. He says Kelly should give Trump half of her salary because she has been elevated after attacking him. 5:32: Trump says Megyn Kelly attacks him every night and her ratings would plummet if she didn’t criticize him. She says the show is a negative infomercial about him. “Not fair,” he says. “I will fight back on Twitter  …     and let people know she’s a   talent. ” Trump says if Kelly didn’t talk about him, her “ratings would go down like a rock. ” 5:30: When asked if his language re: women will come back to haunt him, he says half of it was “show business. ” And he says politicians say “far worse” behind closed doors. He says nobody respects women more than he does. He says he will take care of women with women’s health issues far better than Hillary Clinton. 5:25: Trump says if he is denied the nomination at the convention “of course there could be riots. ” Trump says he will tell his supporters not to riot but adds that he has “no control” over them. He says his supporters are disenfranchised and have seen their jobs go to Mexico, China, Japan. He says they are not by nature angry people but are angry now. He asks “are we so politically correct that I can’t say” there may be riots. 5:18: Trump says he would “probably” normalize economic deals with Cuba but would make better deals. He says he would open a Trump Hotel in Cuba. 5:15: Trump says his message to the rabbis is that he will be “great for Israel. ” “I will be very good for Israel,” he says. Trump says Obama’s election has been one of the worst things to ever happen to Israel. Trump says he is the “least racist” person and he has no idea why   groups are supporting him. He says he doesn’t want their support and doesn’t need it and condemns those groups. Trump on NATO: Donald Trump: We should ”keep #NATO, but maybe we have to pay a lot less” https:  .  #FinalFive https:  .   —   CNN (@CNN) March 21, 2016,  5:10: On CNN, Trump says Israel’s security is “ ” and blasts Clinton for saying that Trump doesn’t have “steady hands” while she got American into the mess in Libya. Trump says “look at what she’s done. ” Trump says he is “very  ” and has “many awards from Israel. ” He claims there is nobody who is “more   than I am. ” Trump says the Palestinians have to “end terror” for him to be neutral. He says they have to stop the “stabbings, the weapons, the military  …    ” Trump says he would veto the deal with the United Nations if it forces a deal down the throats of  . Trump says Palestinians are born with a certain mindset to hate Jews and that has to stop. 4:55: Graham praises Cruz’s staunch support of Israel: Successful fundraiser w   community for @tedcruz. When comes to reliable defender of Israel he’s head  shoulders above all others.  —   Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) March 21, 2016,  4:39: Code Pink protesting Trump’s AIPAC speech: Small group from @codepink begin their protest outside if AIPAC  …     say many more coming in time for Trump tonight. pic. twitter.   —   Shaquille Brewster (@shaqbrewster) March 21, 2016,  4:25: Report: GOP Donors Tired After Spending Nearly $520 on failed GOP presidential campaigns —  and their failed GOP Smart Set consultants. 4:20: Failed candidate Perry wants Kasich to drop out: Rick Perry on @MSNBC: ”The advice that I would give (Kasich) is to go ahead  suspend your campaign because you’re just wasting your time”  —   Frank Thorp V (@frankthorpNBC) March 21, 2016,  4:18: Nobody Cares: This is what it looks like when you build your national security team out of actual experts. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   John Kasich (@JohnKasich) March 21, 2016,  4:15: Graham at Cruz fundraiser: Lindsey Graham at Cruz event: ”Ted Cruz stands between us and oblivion”  —   Jeff Ballabon (@ballabon) March 21, 2016,  3:55: Trump up big in Arizona: Latest Poll  —   #ArizonaPrimary GOP Presidential: Trump 46Cruz 33Kasich 17https:  .   —   Opinion Savvy (@Opinion_Savvy) March 21, 2016,  3:49: Trump says DeMint helping him with potential Supreme Court nominees. Will DeMint now be blacklisted by the Smart Set? Trump says the Heritage Foundation is helping him to prepare a list of SCOTUS nominees,  —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) March 21, 2016,  3:45: From Breitbart’s Alex Swoyer: Video: Trump takes more questions after D. C. press conference. 3:43: Trump says he wouldn’t take salary as president. Trump tells me he wouldn’t take a salary is he’s president, nominal $1,  —   Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) March 21, 2016,  3:20: Will DeMint now be added to the blacklist? Among those at Trump meeting, Jim DeMint (head of Heritage) Sen Jeff Sessions, Sen Tom Cotton, Gingrich  others,  —   Jamie Dupree (@jamiedupree) March 21, 2016,  3:18: Livingston says “Never Trump” people think they are smarter than American people (because they are masters of minutiae and tactics! !): Fmr Rep Bob Livingston dings #NeverTrump:”I am really, really irritated by these people who think they are smarter than the American people”  —   Deirdre Walsh (@deirdrewalshcnn) March 21, 2016,  3:11: Sanders says the American Dream is in reverse: ”What we are experiencing today is the American Dream in reverse” says @BernieSanders in Boise, Idaho. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) March 21, 2016,    3:10: Trump’s “impromptu” job interview at press conference: WATCH: Donald Trump conducts impromptu job interview during press conference. https:  .   —   CSPAN (@cspan) March 21, 2016,  [Tony Lee: Trump and his campaign campaign remind me of Dirty Sexy Money, a great and very enjoyable television show that unfortunately lasted for only two seasons. The great Natalie Zea also played Karen Darling so perfectly.] 3:06: Trump says Mexico is one of the toughest places to become a citizen. He says the “Mexican people like me” even though the country’s officials don’t. He also blasts “professional agitators” in Arizona. “These are not good people,” he says. “The people who are supporters are unbelievably good people. ” Trump says the people who are against him “are not really against me. ” He says they were on the phone with him an hour before asking for a meeting. 3:05: Cruz, Rubio talking about Florida delegates: Reports: @tedcruz and @marcorubio aides in talks about #Florida senator’s delegates https:  .  #Latino2016,  —   Fox News Latino (@foxnewslatino) March 21, 2016,  3:00:   protester in Kansas City arrested for slapping police horse in the face: Police say that’s when the suspect,    April J. Foster, approached an officer and his horse, Dan, and began screaming in the horse’s face in an attempt to scare him. When that did not work, Foster reportedly slapped the horse in the face with an open hand. 2:55: Trump hires woman at press conference: At Donald Trump’s presser, he offered a random woman who was randomly in the crowd a job interview. pic. twitter.   —   Jenna Johnson (@wpjenna) March 21, 2016,  Trump hired a woman in the audience during his press conference. Told @TomLlamasABC that he had a ”good instinct” about her.  —   Katherine Faulders (@KFaulders) March 21, 2016,  2:50: Trump blasts Warren: “You mean the Indian?” Trump responds to attacks from Elizabeth Warren  —   ”you mean the Indian?” #Presidential,  —   Rhys Blakely (@rhysblakely) March 21, 2016,  2:42: CNN reporter asks Castro if he prefers Clinton or Trump: Raul Castro says he can’t vote in U. S. so won’t answer Hillary v. Trump question from Jim @Acosta #CubaVisit pic. twitter.   —   TVNewser (@tvnewser) March 21, 2016,  2:40: Graham holding fundraiser for Cruz: Scheduled to begin this hour: @TedCruz’s fundraiser with @LindseyGrahamSC in Washington, D. C.  —   Patrick Svitek (@PatrickSvitek) March 21, 2016,  2:35: Obama and Castro: Obama excited to work with Cuba on climate change,  —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 21, 2016,  “We welcome that constructive dialogue as well” says Obama noting that Castro has criticized US inequality and race relations,  —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 21, 2016,  2:12: Romney being Romney. Romney a week ago: “Unlike the other people running, [Kasich] has real track record” Romney today: ”A vote for Kasich is a vote for Trump”  —   Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) March 21, 2016,  2:10: Gingrich leaving Trump meeting: Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and his wife leave meeting with Donald Trump without much comment. pic. twitter.   —   George Colli (@GeorgeColli) March 21, 2016,  2:05: More from Trump meeting: After Trump mtg DesJarlais said mbrs ”need to get used to the idea” Trump will be the nominee. Says Trump’s demeanor was ”appropriate”  —   Chad Pergram (@ChadPergram) March 21, 2016,  After Trump mtg, Rep Chris Collinsnsays violence at rallies was “obviously organized left leaning protesters. ”  —   Chad Pergram (@ChadPergram) March 21, 2016,  Trump mtg   mbrs wraps. About 24 ppl there. Not all mbrs. Rep DesJarlais said they talked about SCOTUS.  —   Chad Pergram (@ChadPergram) March 21, 2016,  1:58: Let’s see if DeMint is added to the blacklist.   DeMint is meeting w Trump, aide says, but it does not mean he is endorsing him. Aide says it is part of effort to discuss conservative ideas,  —   Manu Raju (@mkraju) March 21, 2016,  1:52: Fake   Elizabeth Warren goes on Twitter rant, calls Trump a “loser. ” . @RealDonaldTrump knows he’s a loser. His insecurities are on parade: petty bullying, attacks on women, cheap racism, flagrant narcissism.  —   Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) March 21, 2016,  . @RealDonaldTrump stands ready to tear apart an America that was built on values like decency, community, and concern for our neighbors.  —   Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) March 21, 2016,  Many of history’s worst authoritarians started out as losers  —   and @realDonaldTrump is a serious threat.  —   Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) March 21, 2016,  The way I see it, it’s our job to make sure @realDonaldTrump ends this campaign every bit the loser that he started it.  —   Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) March 21, 2016,  Flashback: Warren’s one tough woman:    1:50: Trump holding press conference this afternoon at Old Post Office Building in D. C. The setup for Trump’s press conference today. pic. twitter.   —   Katherine Faulders (@KFaulders) March 21, 2016,  The security line to get into Trump’s post office presser this afternoon pic. twitter.   —   Jill Colvin (@colvinj) March 21, 2016,    Trump water available for press ahead of his afternoon press conference pic. twitter.   —   Katherine Faulders (@KFaulders) March 21, 2016,  1:45: Sanders’s statement on  : I applaud President Obama for traveling to Cuba and moving relations between our two countries into a new era. pic. twitter.   —   Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) March 21, 2016,  Sanders says his political revolution is “resonating all over the world. ” Our political revolution is now resonating all over the world. Thank you, Democrats abroad! https:  .   —   Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) March 21, 2016,  1:37: More dishonesty from the Clinton campaign: Clinton says majority of $ from small donations. @PolitiFact finds that ”mostly false.” https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   NBC Investigations (@NBCInvestigates) March 21, 2016,  1:35: Trump reveals some members of his foreign policy team, per the Washington Post: “Walid Phares, who you probably know. Ph. D. adviser to the House of Representatives. He’s a   expert,” Trump said. “Carter Page, Ph. D. George Papadopoulos. He’s an oil and energy consultant. Excellent guy. The honorable Joe Schmitz, [was] inspector general at the Department of Defense. General Keith Kellogg. And I have quite a few more. But that’s a group of some of the people that we are dealing with. We have many other people in different aspects of what we do. But that’s pretty representative group. ” 1:32: Utah Gov. Herbert says he will be voting for Cruz on Tuesday: 1:30: Mitt Romney’s robocalls for Ted Cruz in Utah: 