United States presidential candidate Hillary Clinton has lashed out at UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage during a speech at a rally today. Mr. Farage has told Breitbart London her comments are “extraordinary” and suggested she spend more time speaking to working people in her country than attacking him. [Mrs. Clinton has ranted about the outgoing UKIP leader who appeared at a rally for her political rival for the presidency Donald Trump. Clinton slammed Trump for having Farage appear on stage to talk about the Brexit vote and even went as far as to suggest the former UKIP leader of being in bed with Russian president Vladimir Putin because he had appeared on Russian television broadcasts.  “Just yesterday, one of Britain’s most prominent   leaders, a man named Nigel Farage, who stoked   sentiments to win the referendum to have Britain leave the European Union, campaigned with Donald Trump in Mississippi,” Clinton said. “Farage has called for a ban on the children of legal immigrants from public schools and health services, has said women are quote “worth less” than men, and supports scrapping laws that prevent employers from discriminating based on race  —   that’s who Trump wants by his side. The godfather of this global brand of extreme nationalism is Russian President Vladimir Putin. ” “The godfather of this global brand of extreme nationalism is Russian President Vladimir Putin,” she concluded. Mr. Farage has told Breitbart London exclusively: “I think Hillary Clinton is running scared. Her attacks on me are completely baseless. She sounds rather like Bob Geldof and can’t accept Brexit. He added: “Perhaps Mrs. Clinton should spend more time speaking to normal, working people in her country than trying to attack me using dodgy  ”. Mr. Farage did not actually ever suggest that the children of legal immigrants are banned from public schools, but rather suggested that people who have not paid in to the UK tax system should not be the beneficiaries of public money until they have paid in. His comments, used widely out of context by Mrs. Clinton, also included the idea of having private insurance to use Britain’s public services  —   a common thing in the United States. He has previously stood by the idea that women who take maternity leave are perceived by employers to be “worth less” than men, though never opined on whether or not that was fair or just. He also supports scrapping EU discrimination law, but has stood by the fact that the British parliament could easily enact these laws, if necessary, themselves. Her comments linking Mr. Farage and Mr. Trump to Vladimir Putin were reported on by Breitbart London recently. It was a “Project Fear” tactic used by the ‘Remain’ campaign during the European Union referendum which Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama’s side lost. Mrs. Clinton’s speech was aimed at the “alt right” and Breitbart, though Mr. Farage has never claimed to be a member of the “alt right” and has actively distanced himself from many public figures who are perceived as such. His party, UKIP, which is 23 years old, has consistently stood by the position that left and right are now useless monikers in politics, and that the battle is now about the corporatists and globalists versus average people.