Breitbart News smashed company traffic records in July, generating 192 million pageviews, 31 million unique visitors, and 89 million sessions. Last month’s metrics pushed the conservative news giant to over one billion pageviews so far in 2016 —  a 28% jump in 30 days from last month’s previous record high.  “We set out to build a    media company that provides warp speed, on the ground reporting from anywhere in the world,” said Breitbart CEO and President Larry Solov. “From London to Los Angeles, Jerusalem to the Rio Grande —  Breitbart is there. These latest traffic metrics are further evidence that strategy connects with our massive and growing global audience. ” When the company   its website in 2012, Breitbart generated roughly 12 million pageviews a month today, it does 16 times as much traffic. “What we are doing is unique in history: by breaking stories, setting narratives, and fostering intense community interaction, Breitbart News is singular in   media,” said Breitbart News    Alexander Marlow. “Our team is operating at a very high level right now, and we’re just getting started. ” A core driver of Breitbart’s growth remains its commitment to delivering content in myriad formats that give news consumers what they want, when they want, and how they want. The Breitbart News Daily radio program, broadcast live on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 from 6AM to 9AM Eastern, is hosted by Breitbart Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon. The show has become a   for conservatives, and Establishment Media regularly cover the show’s interviews with conservative thought leaders and political luminaries. Beyond its website and radio properties, Breitbart’s dominance on social media has made it unsurpassed among political news publishers. Indeed, leading social media analytics company NewsWhip ranks Breitbart #1 in the world for political social media, scoring over two million more Facebook and Twitter engagements than next closest competitor Huffington Post. “Our readers demand accurate, original reporting untainted by Establishment spin,” said Breitbart Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon. “Elections and candidates come and go, but tightknit communities that coalesce around commonly shared values remain. That’s why our strategy is producing exponential and consistent   growth. ”