A man wearing a “F**k ISIS”   has been reportedly been detained by Austin, Texas, police officers after he was said to have taken an “assault rifle” out of his car. [A photo on Twitter by photojournalist Bob Daemmrich (Twitter: @bobphoto) shows a man in police custody near the SouthPark Medows shopping center polling location on the south side of Austin. The man is dressed in black except for a red baseball cap. The black   has   writing on the front that purports to say, “F*ck Isis. ” The incident reportedly occurred Tuesday morning at about 11 am.  Man detained SouthPark Meadows near voting site wearing f  …     Isis shirt @bobphoto @TexasTribune pic. twitter.   —   bobphoto (@bobphoto) November 8, 2016,  A few minutes later Daemmrich tweeted that while he did not personally witness the incident, the man had reportedly pulled an “assault rifle” out of his car. I didn’t see it but witness reported pulling an assault rifle out of his car,  —   bobphoto (@bobphoto) November 8, 2016,  That action, in and of itself, would not be illegal in Texas unless the man did so in a manner to cause alarm or if he was within 100 feet of the polling location, a gun free zone. Daemmrich told Breitbart Texas the man was eventually release by police and that he had no further information about the incident The hat was said to be an HEB hat. Breitbart Texas reached out to the Austin Police Department to learn if the man had been arrested or if any other action was taken. Police officials were in the middle of a “network crisis” with their systems and could not readily obtain any information about the incident. The spokesperson promised to update Breitbart Texas when information became available. The incident comes on the heels of a Breitbart Texas report on a possible FBI investigation into “online chatter on terrorist websites” which mentioned possible attacks in Texas, New York, and Virginia. The FBI reportedly interviewed three Muslims in Texas about the reported threat. Texas officials reported on Friday they had been warned by national security officials about the potential for an attack on Texas and the other states before the Tuesday General Election. “My office is working with law enforcement officials and we are continuing to monitor the situation in close coordination with the Texas Department of Public Safety,” Texas Governor Greg Abbott wrote in a statement obtained by Breitbart Texas. “Texans should go about their daily lives as usual, but remain vigilant over the next several days and report any suspicious activity to state or local law enforcement. The State of Texas will continue to do everything it can to ensure the safety and security of its citizens. ” This article will be updated to reflect further information. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.