WINDSOR, Ontario  —   It is a postapocalyptic streetscape that most Canadians associate with American cities like Detroit:   houses,   roofs, a mess of scattered shingles, peeling paint and crumbling masonry. In some abandoned homes, the only residents are skunks, raccoons, rats and feral cats. But this vision of urban blight is not in an American city  —   it is in Canada, just across the border from Detroit. This corner of Windsor, a neighborhood called Sandwich, was settled in 1783 and was once a terminal for the Underground Railroad bringing American slaves to freedom in Canada. Many of its   streets boasted majestic   houses. The area around Indian Road, built largely in the last century, was a thriving neighborhood favored by professors from an adjacent university. But now Indian Road runs through a ghost neighborhood of over 100   houses and three abandoned apartment buildings punctuated by a few, lonely occupied homes, a result of a   battle between an American businessman and Canadian governments at various levels. The businessman, Manuel Moroun, owns one of the last private road bridges linking Canada and the United States. For years, he has battled to keep the Canadian government from building a competing bridge, and has bought up houses in the area to build his own second bridge next to the current one. The fight has raged on for more than 15 years. In April, one of the many legal battles it has spawned reached the Supreme Court of Canada. The result for the neighborhood around Indian Road has been decay and the steady depletion of people. “It’s very, very quiet on this street,” said Rita Montgomery, a factory worker. Ms. Montgomery was standing on the concrete veranda of the brick bungalow she has rented for about 10 years. Across the street, a   fence surrounded an entire block of   and decayed houses, and empty lots where others had burned down. “They say he’ll fix the houses up,” she said of Mr. Moroun. “But I don’t know. ” Mr. Moroun’s Canadian Transit Company operates the    Ambassador Bridge, a hulking suspension bridge that sits between, and looms above, Indian Road and the nearby University of Windsor. At night, the bridge’s name glows neon red from towers on the shores it connects in Canada and the United States. Thanks to a constant flow of cars newly assembled on each side of the border and trucks packed with the parts used to make them, the bridge is the busiest border crossing in North America, with 6. 3 million trips last year, according to the Public Border Operators Association. But the location of the Ambassador Bridge, which Mr. Moroun bought in 1979, is not where anyone would consider putting a busy border crossing today. On the Canadian side, there is no direct expressway connection, and a lack of space means that the truck inspection for customs and immigration is miles away. It is an arrangement that suits neither Windsor’s residents nor bridge users. After years of political debate and a string of unsuccessful and messy legal challenges by Mr. Moroun (in one tussle in 2012, the businessman, then 84, and one of his executives were jailed overnight in Detroit for contempt of court) a solution is now emerging. A recently opened expressway will link to a new bridge that the Canadian government will build in an industrial area about three miles west of the Ambassador Bridge. Mr. Moroun, however, is not yet ready to back down. For 15 years or so, his Canadian Transit Company gradually acquired houses around Indian Road as part of a plan to build a   bridge beside the   Ambassador and to expand the customs and immigration plaza on the Windsor side. In anticipation, an approach to the new bridge stretches for a block behind Indian Road with unused customs booths at one end and a ramp to nowhere at the other. But any new bridge needs approval from Canada’s transport minister and the Province of Ontario, and Drew Dilkens, Windsor’s mayor, firmly opposes the idea. In a statement, Transport Canada, a federal department, said it was reviewing Mr. Moroun’s application but offered no timetable for its approval. Because the company lacks permission to build a new bridge, the city has refused demolition permits for its collection of houses and apartments. City inspectors have also ordered that the houses be kept in good repair. But the bridge company has ignored those orders, saying an obscure piece of federal law, the International Bridges and Tunnels Act, puts it above local law. “We wouldn’t be in this position  —   the condition of the houses and the nuisance there  —   we wouldn’t be in this position if we’d been allowed to tear down those homes,” said Stan Korosec, a former Ontario provincial police officer who is now the director of Canadian government relations and security for Mr. Moroun’s companies. “If we’d been allowed to do what we want to do, there would be green space there. ” The city, which has declared some of the homes to have heritage value, has resisted arguments that the houses should be demolished just because their owners let them become  . And the mayor, Mr. Dilkens, is adamant that local laws apply to Canadian Transit just like any other property owner. “I can’t figure them out and why they decided to be a bad corporate citizen,” said Mr. Dilkens, who has been the target of unsuccessful litigation by Mr. Moroun’s companies, along with the previous mayor and all of the city’s councilors. “Why would they choose a path that beats up the neighborhood?” In April, the two sides met in the Supreme Court of Canada, which is expected to rule on the city’s jurisdiction in the case this year. In the interim, Sandwich waits. Mary Ann Cuderman, a neighborhood activist who runs a bake shop in her large   house, said the growing desolation had set off an exodus of families with young children, resulting in the closing of schools, shops and a bank. “The family aspect of the community is really being whittled down,” Ms. Cuderman said. “It’s a complete loss of community. ” A block over from Indian Road on Rosedale Avenue, a   boulevard, there is no plywood on the doors and windows of houses. But as the neighborhood has been hollowed out, most of the houses have been sold to absentee landlords. The families that once dominated the street have been replaced by   tenants, often students, and many houses are poorly kept. David Fehrenbach, who has lived on the avenue for 30 years, said the bridge company’s actions had affected the whole area. “At Halloween time, people from Detroit used to come over here to these streets,” Mr. Fehrenbach said. Mr. Moroun set out “to destroy the neighborhood in order to take it over, so that’s what he’s done,” he added. “If you allow him to tear it down, he’s won. ” John Elliott, a city councilor who is descended from American slaves who escaped to Sandwich, said that while he would like some of the houses to be repaired and restored, he was open to demolishing others in exchange for efforts by Mr. Moroun’s company to do something for the community. “Take something out of the community, put something back in,” he said. “After that, we’re fine. ” In her bake shop, where an old promotional poster for the Ambassador Bridge (“The Fresh Air and Sunshine Route”) is on display, Ms. Cuderman joked that her best bet was a big lottery win. The proceeds, she said, would go toward buying the house next to Mr. Moroun’s home in an affluent Detroit suburb. “And then I’d board it up. ” She added, laughing: “I bet it wouldn’t stay boarded up for more than two days. But I could say, ‘See how the neighborhoods you’ve devastated have to live. ’”