OAKLAND, Calif.  —   The Golden State Warriors were practicing Sunday when they learned that one of their most important pieces would be absent from Game 5 of the N. B. A. finals on Monday. Coach Steve Kerr approached Draymond Green, the team’s   forward, and told him that he had been suspended. “He’s disappointed,” Kerr said. The N. B. A. announced Sunday that the league had retroactively assessed Green with a   foul for striking the Cleveland Cavaliers’ LeBron James in the groin in the fourth quarter of the Warriors’   Game 4 victory on Friday, triggering an automatic   suspension, per league rules. A   foul is less severe than a   which results in an automatic ejection. However, four flagrant foul “points” in the postseason (two points for a   one point for a  ) result in a suspension. Green, who has had trouble keeping his appendages to himself in recent weeks, already had three. It was a seismic decision by the N. B. A. with the Warriors heading into Game 5 at Oracle Arena with a     lead in the    series and an opportunity to clinch their second straight championship. Green’s value to the team is difficult to overstate. In the finals, Green is averaging 14. 8 points, 9. 3 rebounds and 5. 8 assists while playing more than 38 minutes a game. Without him, the Warriors will need to find solutions by committee. Green did not address the news media. “We know it’s going to kill him not being there,” shooting guard Klay Thompson said. “But we’re going to go out there and do it as a team and win for him. ” The Warriors sounded edgy about the situation. Andrew Bogut, the team’s starting center, said he had no doubt that the Cavaliers had lobbied for Green’s suspension. Bogut also described the N. B. A. ’s disciplinary system as one without “rhyme or reason” and compared it to the league’s draft lottery process. “Pull out a   ball and make a decision,” Bogut said. “They made a decision, which was an interesting one. ” On Friday, after James pushed Green to the court late in the fourth quarter and tried to step over him, Green retaliated by swiping at James and making contact with his groin. After the game, James said he was “not cool” with some things that Green had said to him. Green, in turn, took offense to the way James had stepped over him. On Sunday, Kiki Vandeweghe, the N. B. A. ’s executive vice president for basketball operations, said in a statement that while Green’s actions in Green 4 did not merit a suspension as a “  act,” he was deserving of a flagrant foul. It was an accumulation of offenses that resulted in the   suspension. The series  —   already physical  —   has reached a heightened state. After Sunday’s practice, Thompson basically accused James of being a crybaby. “I guess his feelings just got hurt,” Thompson said, adding: “Guys talk trash in this league all the time. I’m just kind of shocked some guys take it so personal. I mean, it’s a man’s league, and I’ve heard a lot of bad things on that court. But at the end of the day, it stays on the court. ” When James was informed of Thompson’s comments, he asked a reporter to repeat them. Then he laughed. “Oh, my goodness,” James said. “It’s so hard to take the high road. I’ve been doing it for 13 years. It’s so hard to continue to do it, and I’m going to do it again. ” Green has always had a tendency to treat games like   acts. Consider his   blowup inside the Warriors’ locker room at halftime of a game against the Oklahoma City Thunder in February. His volatility can fuel his play and that of his teammates (the Warriors wound up winning that game against Oklahoma City) but he also risks becoming a distraction. “We thrive off of Draymond’s competitiveness and his edge,” Kerr said, “and it’s been very important for us this year. And maybe that same quality has led him to this point  —   just his competitiveness and his passion. And that’s all part of it. ” Bogut said that Green had to play with emotion, otherwise he would not be nearly as effective. So the Warriors accept the pros while bracing for any potential cons. Against Portland in the conference semifinals, Green was borderline obsessed with psychological games. After guaranteeing one win, he declared that the Trail Blazers’ playoff chances were dead before the series was over. His fondness for the dramatic arts bled onto the court, where he swung his arms in reaction to a call and made inadvertent contact with the official Ken Mauer, who had to seek treatment for a cut to his hand. Green’s fire worked out against the Trail Blazers because he produced, averaging 22. 2 points, 11. 2 rebounds and 7. 4 assists over the course of the series as the Warriors advanced. Against the Thunder in the conference finals, Green kicked Steven Adams in the groin in Game 3, drawing a   foul, and tripped Enes Kanter in Game 4. (The league did not penalize Green for the latter offense, and perhaps he was fortunate.) But all the outside noise appeared to affect him. In Games 3 and 4 against the Thunder, Green scored a total of 12 points while shooting 2 of 16 from the field. Now, with the Warriors on the cusp of a championship, they will need to find a way to cope with his absence. “We know we have the personnel and the depth to come out and get a win, and that’s all that really matters,” Stephen Curry said. “It honestly doesn’t matter what we think about what he did or didn’t do. The situation is what it is, and we’ve got to win. ”