Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump argued that Democratic presidential candidate Senator Bernie Sanders ( ) should tell “his people” to stop, “My people are nice” and his GOP rivals who have stated violence hasn’t occurred at their rallies “don’t have any people at their rallies” before stating “we’ve got to fight back” at a rally in Dayton, OH on Saturday.  Trump said, “[A] planned attack just came out of nowhere. Printed by  —   and it was printed by people that were professional people. If you look at the posters, they’re all printed, they have a mark on them, who made them. All done by a group, all very professionally done. ” He later stated, “I’m watching the news, and they [fellow candidates Texas Senator Ted Cruz and Florida Senator Marco Rubio] said, well, at our rallies, we would never have anything like that. They don’t have any people at their rallies, folks. There’s nobody there. ” Trump further said, “[T]hey want me to tell my people, please be nice, be nice. My people are nice. The people that came there were so nice. And let me tell you, the people that were there, that came there, that were invited there, thousands and thousands of people, they caused no problem. They were taunted. They were harassed by these other people. These other people, by the way, some represented Bernie, our Communist friend. Now, really, Bernie should tell his people, there weren’t too many Hillary people there. You know why I mean, in all fairness to Bernie. The reason there weren’t Hillary people, they have no fervor. There’s no fervor. Say what you want about Bernie. At least they have a little bit of fervor, right? But, with Bernie  —   so he should really get up and say to his people, ‘Stop. Stop.’ Not me. Stop. They said, Mr. Trump should get up, and this morning tell his people to be nice. My people are nice, folks. They’re nice. ” After declaring, “Our president has divided this country so badly. ” And that he would unify the country, Trump said, “So look, we cannot let our First Amendment  —   we just can’t. We cannot let our First Amendment rights be taken away from us, folks. We can’t let it happen. We can’t let it happen. We have a right to speak. I mean, we are   people. We’re people that work very hard. We’re people that have built this country and made this country great, and we’re all together, and we want to get along with everybody, but when they have organized,   wise guys, we’ve got to fight back. ” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett