GOP frontrunner Donald Trump is changing up his campaign style as he moves from Iowa to New Hampshire on Thursday, ahead of the New Hampshire primary next Tuesday. [Trump is holding question and answer segments instead of only delivering speeches at rallies and also making small campaign stops in addition to his packed campaign rallies.  “This is really crunch time   …     this is going to lead to one of the most important presidential elections   …     in many, many decades,” Trump told the audience at a rally in Exeter, New Hampshire on Thursday afternoon. After delivering his remarks, Trump took questions from the audience  —   a much different style from the way he campaigned in Iowa, where he placed second to Sen. Ted Cruz ( ). One audience member from southern California questioned Trump about illegal immigrants doing work for a lot less. “Who told you to be here Bernie?” Trump said to the individual. “I understand your question. “ Someone then shouted from the audience that illegal immigrants were the backbone of America. “I don’t think so  —   they’re not the backbone,” Trump countered, referencing illegal immigrants. “People that came here and they came here legally. People that came to this country legally and they worked their ass off   …     that’s the backbone!” Another question was asked about social security, and Trump vowed to save it, while another person asked about defunding sanctuary cities. “There will be no more sanctuary cities,” under Trump’s presidency, the real estate mogul said. Trump also blasted anchor babies, pointing to how many tax dollars go toward anchor babies born in the United States. The audience had a mixed reaction to Trump mentioning an anchor baby in Canada, referencing his competitor Ted Cruz, who was born in Canada to a U. S. citizen. Following the rally, Trump is meeting with local New Hampshire business owners and participating in a shift change at the Manchester, New Hampshire Police Department. He is also holding another campaign rally Thursday night in Portsmouth, New Hampshire.