Originally posted by The Heartland Institute:  On March 1, 2016, the Heartland Institute announced that the event space in its new headquarters in Arlington Heights, Illinois will be known as the “Andrew Breitbart Freedom Center. ” The center can comfortably hold more than 75 people for Heartland’s public events, with the purpose of advancing free markets and individual liberty. The new Andrew Breitbart Freedom Center features     digital technology, including the ability to   socially shareable and interactive events on Heartland’s YouTube page. In addition to hosting its own events on a weekly schedule, Heartland is making the meeting space available free of charge to conservative, libertarian, and other   groups for organizing and training activists, speeches and panel discussions,   instruction and practice sessions, movie screenings, and more. Breitbart, who died suddenly on March 1, 2012 at the age of 43, was a pioneer who created his own media empire to fight back against the liberal mainstream media and give voice to conservatives, libertarians, and   capitalism. Andrew Breitbart’s family and the company he founded, the Breitbart News Network, gave Heartland permission to honor him with the naming of the Andrew Breitbart Freedom Center. “Andrew Breitbart was a genuine American hero. He inspired millions of people to stand up and speak the truth about what is happening in America,” said Joseph Bast, president of The Heartland Institute. “We could not be more pleased to have his name forever affixed to The Heartland Institute. We are honored that his family and friends believe this connection is a suitable addition to his legacy. ” Watch a video of Bast talking about Heartland honoring Andrew Breitbart below or at this link. To book Bast or another Heartland guest to talk about this on your program, please contact Director of Communications Jim Lakely at jlakely@heartland. org and    or (cell)   . “Andrew’s children and I, along with his extended family, are grateful that the Heartland Institute is keeping his memory alive and continuing to honor his important work, about which he was so very passionate,” said Susie Breitbart. “Andrew was a tribune for the little guy  —   the Tea Party movement conservatives that get most of the hard work done,” said Steven K. Bannon, Breitbart News Executive Chairman. “To have his name in a place of honor within an organization like Heartland Institute is a tremendous recognition of his memory. ” “We are both thankful and honored that Andrew’s legacy is being acknowledged so thoughtfully at The Heartland Institute’s new headquarters,” said Larry Solov, president and CEO of Breitbart News Network. “Andrew always appreciated the Heartland Institute’s efforts to promote individual liberty, limited government, and the  . We hope that the Andrew Breitbart Freedom Center will be a home for the innovation of thought and vigorous exchange of ideas that Andrew so cherished and The Heartland Institute represents. ” A dedication ceremony will take place this summer, which will feature a screening of “Hating Breitbart,” a documentary about Andrew Breitbart’s enormous impact on the media and the culture that was released one year after his death. Visit Heartland’s event page for more information, when available. If you would like to reserve the space for your group’s activities, please contact Veronica Harrison at vharrison@heartland. org or   . 