LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM  —   Thousands of young Londoners, foreign students, and foreign nationals have amassed in Trafalgar Square, declaring, “we are the future” and demanding the “ ” EU referendum is disregarded. [The crowd was enthusiastic as they listened, below a canopy of umbrellas in the pouring rain, to the   slogans about “love and unity” but also explicit insults directed at “uninformed” old people and “fascist”  .  They held signs which read: “White Aint Right” “F*ck you Farage” “Farage is a Rancid Festering C*nt” “UKIP Suck my Balls!” and placards that depicted the UKIP leader alongside Iran’s Islamist President Rouhani and President Putin of Russia. @RaheemKassam Race not Hate lol pic. twitter.   —   Gavin (@Pardus_UK) June 28, 2016,  They chanted: “EU, We Love You” “EU Forever” “Love Not Hate” “Racists Out, Migrants In” “Say it Loud, Say it Clear, Refugees are Welcome Here” and, “Who’s Future? Our Future!” YOU CAN WATCH A FACEBOOK LIVESTREAM VIDEO HERE, PICTURES: The majority of the speakers were students, who one by one claimed that they were “scared” “angry” and “resentful” of the result of the referendum, which delivered the largest democratic mandate this country has ever seen. The most significant speaker was an EU lawyer, who told the crowd, to rapturous cheers, that “the Prime Minister can, and indeed should, ignore the referendum result. He should give it to Parliament to decide. This referendum is  . ” He said the “simple but constitutionally significant point” must be “taken seriously by the general public and their elected representatives” before explicitly denounce democratic process and arguing that only technocrats and “experts” should have a say on such issues. “Having studied EU law for ten years  …     I believe that the Britain that the Leave camp have voted for is a fictitious Britain  —   one that has been conjured up by Brexiter charlatans who profess to know better than the economic experts of this country” he continued. Adding: “It is not my intention to make the case for the EU, the time for that has passed  …     you might think that a second referendum is a good idea. It is not. It is becoming clear that the public were mislead on all the key issues: on the economy on immigration and on issues of democracy. “These issues were grossly misrepresented by the Leave campaign. And, for its part, the Remain campaign did little to rectify these misrepresentations. In the midst of mass confusion, a second referendum is not a good idea. “What is needed is for the general public to demand the referendum is voted down in Parliament” he said. There is actually an anti democracy protest taking place in Trafalgar Square. RIGHT NOWpic. twitter.   —   Art. 50 Holborn ✘ (@Holbornlolz) June 28, 2016,  Tim Farron, the leader of the Liberal Democrats Party, also spoke at the event. This week he gave a speech in line with this   sentiment. “Nigel Farage’s vision for Britain has won this vote, but it is not a vision I accept  …     Even though the vote was close, the majority of British people want us to leave. But we refuse to give up on our beliefs” he said. Adding: “The British people deserve the chance not to be stuck with the appalling consequences of a Leave campaign that stoked that anger with the lies of Farage, Johnson and Gove. “The Liberal Democrats will fight the next election on a clear and unequivocal promise to restore British prosperity and role in the world, with the United Kingdom in the European Union, not out. ”     After Trafalgar Square, a few hundred moved down Whitehall to the College Green to try and make their point in front of rolling TV cameras. They heard more speeches telling them to write to their MPs urging them to vote down the referendum. They were also talking about how they loved democracy but would not recognise the result of the largest plebiscite in British political history.   Pics by Getty and Rachel Megawhat for Breitbart London