“America is weaker than it’s ever been” in over fifty years, retired U. S. Air Force Colonel Rob Maness, a candidate for U. S. Senate in Louisiana, tells Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon. [“For over fifty years, we’ve been strong, we’ve been leading in the world and we’re now weaker than we’ve ever been before,” he said, adding, “We’re under attack around the world, including in our own country. ”  Maness accused Obama of waging an illegal war in Syria and leaving America   in Afghanistan. “We’re being challenged by the Russians in Europe. We’re being challenged by the Chinese and the North Koreans, of all states, in the Pacific and we’re spending more than any country in the world, several times over, on our national defense but they see us as politically weak, lacking courage and not leading in the world. Our allies can’t trust us and our enemies don’t fear or respect us,” he concluded. Maness made a point of saying, “When Mr. Trump gets elected   …     he will bring all sorts of clarity. I like the way he speaks   …   ” calling critics like Bill Kristol “old school,” adding “they need to go and they need to stop whining and, quite frankly, they need to get on board with the Republican nominee. ” Maness said he’s had to back a number of republican nominees he may not have liked “for decades,” and it’s time to get on board with Mr. Trump. I’m going to vote for him,” Maness added. There’s more on Maness available on his campaign website. Rob Maness has a life long record of providing dedicated service to the Nation and ran as a Republican Candidate for the Louisiana United States Senate seat in 2014. The third son of Master Sergeant Billy and Lennie Maness, he and his three brothers grew up moving around the country and the world as their Dad served in the United States Air Force. Rob learned about many cultures, realizing how grateful he was for being an American and why our individual rights must be protected. Rob made the decision as a 17 year old high school senior to enlist in the Air Force and serve in uniform as the country faced multiple crises around the world. Having worked his way up from the enlisted ranks to full colonel, he retired from active duty in 2011, ending his military service of more than 32 years. Rob and Candy came back to Louisiana to continue raising their family, where he had spent much of his military career. He worked in the utility industry as a director for two years after his military retirement and is currently the Owner of Iron Liberty Consulting Group, residing in Madisonville, Louisiana. Rob has proven his competence at the local, state, and federal levels of government with his demonstrated leadership and effectiveness as a steward of our citizen’s tax dollars. He has broad experience in the national budget process, national emergency response   law enforcement, successful community relations with governments at all levels, and working with citizens to meet today’s challenges. He has provided direct, executive oversight to local schools in coordination with elected school boards, working to make them secure and more effective to meet the needs of America’s military children. His leadership and combat experiences give him a unique perspective when considering national action impacts on our country’s families. Breitbart News Daily airs from 6 a. m. to 9 a. m. Eastern weekdays on SiriusXM Patriot 125. 