In the face of growing pressure on Planned Parenthood after revelations that it was selling human body parts, the Satanic Temple has launched a   crusade to come to the aid of America’s largest abortion provider. [The Satanic Temple, an organization that combats Christian influence in American society, has staged a series of   at   rallies and filed a lawsuit against the state of Missouri on behalf of one of its members who had to wait 72 hours to get an abortion due to Missouri state law.  According to reports, legislators have passed nearly 300 abortion restrictions in the past five years, resulting in the closing of “hundreds of clinics. ” In what free speech advocates are calling a victory for freedom of the press, David Daleiden, the intrepid investigative reporter who unearthed Planned Parenthood’s misdeeds, has been exonerated from the charges brought by the abortion giant. In a ruling earlier this week, Judge Diane Bull dismissed the charges against Daleiden after it was revealed that the office of District Attorney Devon Anderson was in collusion with Planned Parenthood in targeting Daleiden and the Center for Medical Progress. Similarly, many   advocates have called for the resignation of California Attorney General Kamala Harris, who in April ordered the raid of Daleiden’s apartment, on learning that Kamala had received tens of thousands of dollars in political donations from Planned Parenthood. In an interview this week, Daleiden said that “Planned Parenthood and their business partners know that the baby parts issue is the biggest scandal that they have ever faced and it’s the scandal that could take them down. ” Along with its   against   the Satanic Temple has launched a campaign against “informed consent” laws, which require that women seeking abortions be provided with informational materials regarding abortion. They urge women to claim exemption from “informed consent” materials, alleging a religious right not to receive such information. Devil’s advocates: The Satanic Temple’s fight to protect your abortion rights https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Broadly (@broadly) June 16, 2016,  Meanwhile, in her first address after clinching the Democrat Party presidential nomination, Hillary Clinton chose Planned Parenthood supporters as her target audience. In January, Clinton said, “I will always defend Planned Parenthood. And I will say  —   consistently and proudly  —   Planned Parenthood should be funded, supported, and appreciated not undermined, misrepresented, and demonized. ” In protest to Clinton’s alliance with Planned Parenthood, a number of   leaders issued a joint statement in which they noted that Planned Parenthood receives over $500 million in taxpayer money annually, and then “funnels tens of millions of dollars to candidates like Clinton to further its agenda and increase its bottom line. ” Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter   Follow @   <! [CDATA[! function( d,s, id){var js, fjs=d. getElementsByTagName( s)[0],p= ^