The Oracle Corporation is using its deep financial resources to fund the “Google Transparency Project,” which has set up headquarters in Washington, D. C. with a mission to “out” Google’s dicey lobbying practices and expose crony relationships with President Obama and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. [With Google demonstrating its political clout by essentially writing the “Net Neutrality” regulatory language, Oracle and others are stepping up funding for a Silicon Valley attack dog to level the playing field.  Silicon Valley has earned the nickname “Valley of the Democrats” from the TechCrunch blog because of its symbiotic business relationship with Washington. But as Breitbart News reported last year, Google’s $16, 830, 000 in lobbying expenditure dominated the $139. 5 million spent by both the computer and Internet industries. In the twelve weeks proceeding the “Net Neutrality” vote, Google’s Chairman Eric Schmidt functioned as one of the 11 members on the “Democratic Victory Task Force,” according to a document leaked by the Naked Capitalism blog. Schmidt helped craft the “National Narrative Project” to serve as the key strategy for the Democratic Party to “fight to reclaim state houses, win governorships, take back the House and Senate and protect the White House. ” He is also a leading force behind ‘FWD. US,’ a Silicon Valley tech community effort to push   immigration reform. As a demonstration of just how powerful Google’s relationship with Washington had become, the week before the February 2015 vote by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to approve a wildly controversial “Net Neutrality” Internet regulatory regime, Google was uniquely given a copy of the   draft document and then met with FCC Chairman Wheeler and the FCC’s two other Democratic commissioners, Mignon Clyburn and Jessica Rosenworcel. According to Politico‘s sources, Google was able to offer extraordinarily   tweaks to the regulation just before the   Commission voted along party lines for the new rules. A number of Silicon Valley’s tech giants have become concerned regarding the extent of Google’s growing power. But when a San Francisco jury decided in May that Google’s Android operating system did not have to pay $9 billion for infringing on Oracle’s 37 Java API patents under the “fair use” doctrine, Redwood   Oracle decided to start playing hardball in challenging Google’s reputation. Following an August 18 Fortune article, Oracle proudly acknowledged that it is one of the funders of the ‘Google Transparency Project’ (GTP) which says it intends to use   investigative journalism to document Google’s nefarious government influence. It is unclear who the other funders are, but GTP is a   of the “Campaign for Accountability” and is at least associated with the   ‘New Venture Fund.’ GTP has already produced a series of exposé reports about Google, including: GTP comments that it is currently working with   and The Intercept on the Obama administration using primarily   to set up the secretive “United States Digital Service” that the White House claims is pairing America’s “top technology talent with the best public servants to improve the usefulness and reliability of the country’s most important digital services. ”