Fred Grandy ( ) a former Republican Congressman and actor, has been ​disinvited​ from hosting a seminar series on “Politics in Media” this winter at New Hampshire’s prestigious Phillips Exeter Academy, after individuals involved with the school raised concerns about his “Islamophobic ties. ”[Grandy, who graduated from Harvard University and attended the Phillips Exeter Academy for high school, ​was the host of a very popular morning talk show on WMAL in Washington, D. C. and ​worked with the Center for Security Policy following his tenure in Congress. The Center is known for its advocacy of Ronald Reagan’s “peace through strength” foreign policy, and has been on the front lines of the battle against Islamic supremacists in America.  The Congressman ​told​ Breitbart News he wanted to give back to his high school alma mater and provide his expertise for the dozen or so students who had​ already​ signed up for his class. He wanted to teach students how “politics and the media in this country have evolved, where they are now, and how campaigns operate. ” Throughout the conversation, Grandy reiterated that he never planned on introducing any outside topics nor his allegedly controversial views on foreign policy and Islam. Identifying as a former Republican Congressman didn’t seem to be a problem at first, he said: “What was a problem, evidently  …     was that somebody, somewhere decided to rummage through commentary that had been made about me. ” Here, Grandy is referring to “hit pieces” referenced in the The Exonian article that calls for him not to be allowed to teach the class.   blogs Mother Jones and the Huffington Post are referenced in the piece, which designate the accomplished actor and representative as an “Islamophobe. ” The articles, for the most part, do not quote Grandy verbatim, but instead attack him for his views on terrorism committed in the name of Islam. “The Exonian Published this article branding me as an ‘Islamophobe’ and purveyor of ” he tells Breitbart News. “They didn’t even contact me beforehand to ask about these charges” relayed from the left wing outlets, he said. “The attitude right now is that I’m a danger to the campus,” Grandy expressed. “There was a movement in the faculty to shut this [class] down. ” “I had no day in court. I had no recourse. Based on two articles, I’ve been tried and found guilty with no chance to plead my case,” he added. “I was in Congress for eight years. I was on the radio and television for eight years doing news and commentary, and I felt that combination would be valuable,” Grandy said in noting his credentials to teach the class. But since the “Islamophobia” issue came to light, Grandy ​told​ Breitbart News he has been on the receiving end of a “defamation assault as an alumnus who is simply trying to volunteer my time and expertise. ” “This is the new blacklist,” he said with regard to the attempted silencing of individuals who attempt to explore the ideologies within Islam. “The Islamic advocacy organizations have become adept at spinning” legitimate critiques and designating it as “hate speech,” he concluded.