California Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom responded Sunday to the shooting deaths of three Baton Rouge police officers by blaming “the firearms industry, its spokespeople at the National Rifle Association, and their paid subsidiaries. ”[There is no evidence that the suspect who ambushed the officers early Sunday morning was somehow affected by the NRA.  According to ABC 10, Newsom said began his statement by admitting all the facts were not yet known. Yet, he said, “there is one conclusion to which we must leap: enough is enough. ” He continued: An armed society is a dangerous society and we cannot accept the   fallacies promulgated by the firearms industry, its spokespeople at the National Rifle Association, and their paid subsidiaries. The endemic of gun violence terrorizing our society  —   inflicted upon police officers, nightclub goers, places of work, churches, movie theaters, schools, and disproportionately upon and within America’s minority communities  —   is by definition a political issue and elected leaders must not back down from calling for tougher regulation of firearms and ammunition in fear of political retribution from these defendants of death. Newsom called for “Congress to act immediately,” but did not explain what law could prevent evil men from behaving in evil ways, or stop the   from acting out their criminality. In Louisiana,   East Baton Rouge Sheriff Gautreaux sees things completely differently: he believes the issue is about hearts, not guns. During a July 17 press conference, the UK Guardian quoted Gautreaux saying:: With God’s help, we will get through this. To me this is not so much about gun control as it is about what’s in men’s hearts. And until we come together as a nation, as a people, to heal as a people. If we don’t do that and this madness continues, we will surely perish as a people, AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.