Sarah Palin and billionaire Donald Trump come from completely different backgrounds and coasts. But Palin explained to Breitbart News    Alex Marlow why Trump is resonating with the same   Americans who viewed her as their champion when she unrelentingly challenged the established political order.  In an interview on Breitbart News Sunday, which airs on Sirius XM Patriot channel 125 from 7 PM to 10 PM EST, Palin said Trump’s successful business record and his celebrity enabled him to be the perfect messenger this election cycle who was able to stand against the interests of the bipartisan political class open borders. Palin told Marlow that Trump’s “candidness,” ability to call “it like he sees it” and willingness to fight to “win for America” are the virtues that the “common man, everyday average     American want in a presidential candidate. ” “We want someone like that in a position to be able to implement the changes to undo the fundamental transformation of America that we see going on,” Palin said. “That is why the Trump movement is so powerful. ” Palin added that Trump connects with the “average man” who is “sick of injustice, sick of the status quo, sick of the betrayal of politicians and our government  …    . and we want to take it back. ” Palin pointed out, though, that Trump’s earned wealth and celebrity status in popular culture have actually allowed him to become the messenger for this movement because. She said Trump’s income demands the type of “respect and attention” needed to run for president. Palin added, “practically thinking here, you gotta have some things lined up in your favor like that in order for the media, for the public to tune in to what you’re saying. ” She said it is “very difficult for the most respected Joe Wilsons from off the street to run for president” and be a “viable candidate, viable messenger for the average American” because there are so many roadblocks and hurdles he has to overcome that Trump, because of his wealth and celebrity, did not have to in order to get his message out to the masses. During this election cycle, Trump, by bluntly standing against the interests of the bipartisan permanent political class on issues like illegal immigration, Islamic terrorism, and the   Partnership trade deal, gave GOP primary voters a candidate who was unabashedly aligned with them on the issues most important to them. And, because of Trump’s celebrity, neither the political establishment nor the mainstream press were able to drown out his inconvenient message and stands. Listen to the interview below: 