A law enforcement officer with the Suffolk County Police Department in New York has named a police   after the five police officers who were assassinated in Dallas. The officers were murdered, and seven other officers were wounded, during a Black Lives Matter protest in July. [The    German Shepherd has been named “Dallas V” by his partner Officer Kenneth Michaels.  As noted in this post on the Suffolk County Police Department Facebook page, “On July 7th, the lives of five officers in the Dallas Police Department were taken too soon in a cowardly, vicious attack. The shooting sent ripples through the entire law enforcement family across this country and served as a stark reminder of the sacrifice officers make to protect their communities each and every day. ” The Suffolk County Police Department had just started training the pup around the time that the officers were executed and the seven were wounded. “It is our hope that Dallas V helps to preserve the memory of the fallen officers: Senior Cpl. Lorne Ahrens, Officer Michael Krol, Sgt. Michael Smith, DART Officer Brent Thompson and Officer Patrick Zamarripa. ‪#‎DallasStrong‬,” the officers posted on the SCPD Facebook page. Breitbart Texas provided   coverage after Micah Xavier Johnson started shooting officers as a Black Lives Matter protest was ending. Video showed officers running towards the gunfire and as reported by Breitbart Texas, one mother of four shot during the rampage held a press conference and said DPD officers “were really heroes for us. ” “That officer jumped on top of me, and covered me, and my son,” she tearfully relayed. “There was another one at our feet, and there was another one over our head. And there were several of them lined against the wall over there and they just stayed there with us. ” Johnson, a    black Nation of Islam supporter, said he wanted to kill white people, especially white police officers. He wanted to kill white officers to retaliate for recent police   shootings, reported Breitbart News. Breitbart Texas confirmed that Micah Johnson was a member of the Houston New Black Panther Party. Johnson was killed by Dallas PD after a lengthy standoff and negotiations. DPD killed Johnson using a bomb delivered by a robot. They were the first department in the nation to kill a suspect with a robot. Lana Shadwick is a contributing writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as a prosecutor and associate judge in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2.