Breitbart News National Security Editor Dr. Sebastian Gorka, author of the   book Defeating Jihad: The Winnable War, discussed Monday’s terror attacks in Turkey and Germany with Fox News host Bret Baier on Special Report. [Gorka said the attacks were “yet again verification that in this war, there isn’t a front line like there was in World War I or World War II. ”  “The front line is when you leave your house in the morning. The front line is in art galleries. The front line is at Christmas festivities in Berlin,” he said. “The fact is, Europe is at war. America is at war, and the jihadis are already in place. ”  “We saw in Ankara that this is perhaps the most grievous example of insider threat. This is a police officer. This isn’t somebody who came off a boat yesterday out of Syria,” Gorka said of the man who murdered Russian ambassador Andrey Karlov. “This is somebody who clearly was trained with a weapon, who was carrying a weapon. That is perhaps the most insidious potential threat that we have to face. ” Baier noted that the Islamic State’s publications were urging precisely the sort of vehicular assault that occurred in Berlin, as far back as early November. There were even early warnings specifically concerning attacks on Christmas markets. “Yes, don’t forget that the San Bernardino attack occurred when? It occurred during a Christmas party at the office where the couple, Farouk and Malik, worked,” Gorka pointed out. “The symbolism is very important here. This is the infidel holiday that they’re attacking. ” “ISIS has learned from  ’s mistakes,” he said. “  was obsessed with spectacle, and with killing as many people as possible. Ironically,   was perhaps too successful  —   3, 000 people in 102 minutes. ISIS said, well, it’s not about more people or WMD. Let’s just do classic guerrilla warfare. You don’t even have to build a bomb. You don’t even have to steal a gun. Just get in a vehicle. Mow down the infidel. ” Gorka noted that “mow the infidel down like grass” was literally the instruction given to followers of ISIS in Rumiyah, the magazine Baier quoted from. “And what did we see in Nice? Almost a hundred people killed. Somebody has just taken that to Germany,” Gorka said. He said the reluctance of authorities in the U. S. and Europe to acknowledge acts of Islamic terrorism have “become a joke. ” “It’s like a bad SNL skit. I mean, you’ve all seen the memes on Twitter, you know, ‘Could it be terrorism? Could it be related to jihad?’ When a man is shouting ‘Allahu akbar,’ when you see a tactic that comes straight out of the tradecraft of   of ISIS, being used, what are we waiting for?” he asked. “It was interesting, a former intelligence officer who’s very active on Twitter said the longer the authorities don’t provide the name of the suspect, the higher the likelihood that it’s a jihadi attack. What are we finding again? Exactly the same in Germany,” he noted ruefully. Gorka said it was “very obvious what’s going to change immediately” when   Trump is inaugurated. “If you read, the best advice I can give is, anybody who wants to know what’s going to happen, read   Trump’s Youngstown speech. Not a lot of people paid attention to it. The Youngstown speech is his rhetorical plan for defeating the jihadi threat that is a global movement,” said Gorka. “The first thing I can guarantee  —   having read that, having read Lt. General Flynn’s book Field of Fight, he is now the National Security   to Donald Trump  —   the first thing that’s going to happen is the total jettisoning of political correctness. This idea that the enemy calls themselves jihadis, and we’re not allowed to call them jihadis, that ends the evening of January 20th. The politicization of the intelligence cycle will be finished,” he predicted. The full text of Donald Trump’s speech on terrorism in Youngstown, as referred to by Dr. Gorka, can be found here. 