Dinesh D’Souza’s documentary film Hillary’s America: The Secret History of the Democratic Party will be   in hundreds of theaters this weekend due to popular demand. [Hillary’s America  —   which charts the “secret” history of the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton’s position atop it, including her early meetings with the radical Saul Alinsky and up through recent controversies involving her email server and the Clinton Foundation  —   will be   in about 400 theaters across the country this weekend after fans lobbied theaters for additional screenings, D’Souza told Breitbart News in a phone conversation on Wednesday.  The film is already the   documentary of this year with $12. 5 million in receipts, beating out the IMAX documentary A Beautiful Planet and Michael Moore’s Where to Invade Next, which earned $3. 8 million during its theatrical run in February. “It couldn’t be more timely,” D’Souza told Breitbart of the timing of the   which comes as Clinton and Republican candidate Donald Trump spar over accusations of racism. “I think there’s momentum on Trump’s side, and part of it is that Trump has begun to go where no previous Republican has gone. He’s challenging the Democrats where they’ve seemed strong, and that’s to be the party of minorities,” D’Souza said. “It’s not about winning the black vote, necessarily. It’s about taking away the Democrats’ secret weapon that it’s on the right side of history, that it’s moved things forward. And Trump is saying that’s not so. ” “[The Democrats] can’t refute him, and that’s what gives his arguments so much power,” the filmmaker continued. “I think these arguments are intellectually grounded in the movie and in the book. ” D’Souza said he’s sent the movie to Trump’s campaign, though he couldn’t confirm if the candidate had watched it. Trump promoted the movie on his Twitter account shortly after its release: ”@NancyNielsenn: @realDonaldTrump Dinesh D’Sousa Hillary’s America. see it”  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2016,  For now, D’Souza says he is preparing for the DVD release of the film, set for October 10. When asked whether he might try to get the movie into the hands of disaffected Bernie Sanders supporters, D’Souza said that the Republican National Committee and   super PACs have the ability to ensure it gets seen. “Bernie people are swing voters,” he said. “[The RNC and the super PACs] could actually deliver the DVD to the mailboxes of every swing voter. So we’re at least offering them that opportunity. ” A list of theaters participating in the   can be found here.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum