Hillary Clinton continued her West Coast fundraising trip Tuesday afternoon at the Los Angeles home of pop star Justin Timberlake and his wife, actress Jessica Biel, where the Democratic presidential candidate sat for lunch with   celebrities and Hollywood power players. [The $33, 400   luncheon featured such notable guests as Jennifer Aniston, Tobey Maguire, Jamie Foxx, Katie Holmes, TV powerhouse Shonda Rhimes, ICM Partners chief Chris Silbermann and Justin Bieber manager Scooter Braun, according to Variety.  Actor Leonardo DiCaprio had originally planned to host Clinton on Tuesday at his Los Angeles home, but said a scheduling conflict with his latest film had necessitated his presence in New York. DiCaprio’s   charitable foundation was the subject of news reports last week tying it to a $3 billion Malaysian embezzlement scheme, though a Clinton spokesperson later said suggestions that the actor dropped out due to those reports are “completely false. ” The Timberlake lunch is the third of seven California events Clinton has lined up on her West Coast itinerary. The candidate attended a $2, 700   fundraiser at the home of former NBA legend Magic Johnson on Monday afternoon that reportedly drew more than 500 guests, including Denzel Washington, Samuel L. Jackson, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and Sen. Barbara Boxer ( ). I enjoyed showing @HillaryClinton my Lakers showroom  the 5 championship trophies we won   the Lakers! #ImWithHer pic. twitter.   —   Earvin Magic Johnson (@MagicJohnson) August 23, 2016,  Clinton was in Beverly Hills Monday night at the home of billionaire entertainment mogul and Democratic Party   Haim Saban and his wife Cheryl. The $100, 000   event drew such Hollywood heavyweights as Disney CEO Bob Iger, Chernin Group founder Peter Chernin and outgoing DreamWorks Animation chief Jeffrey Katzenberg, who just locked down a reported $390 million payday as part of his company’s sale to Comcast. The Saban event reportedly drew around 80 attendees, and Clinton is said to have participated in a    session focusing on policy and the positive achievements of the Clinton Foundation. The candidate also filmed an appearance on ABC’s Jimmy Kimmel Live! earlier Monday. Clinton was scheduled to travel to Laguna Beach Tuesday afternoon for two more fundraisers before heading north to the Bay Area for yet two more events, one hosted by Apple CEO Tim Cook and Vice President Lisa Jackson and another at the home of Integrated Archive Systems CEO Amy Rao. The events are part of an aggressive fundraising push by the Democratic nominee ahead of Labor Day weekend, the unofficial start to what will be a contentious showdown with Republican Donald Trump in the general election.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum