Afghan officials have confirmed reports of an attack on the American University of Afghanistan Kabul campus, with various reports on social media suggesting a number of professors and students are still stuck inside. [Update 2:05PM EDT: Reuters is confirming at least one death in the raid and fourteen wounded, citing the head of Kabul’s hospital network.  Update 12:45PM EDT: Local Afghan media say hundreds have escaped the university but many trapped inside. While unofficial death and injured counts are circulating on social media, Afghan authorities have yet to release a number. #AUAF UPDATE Unconfirmed reports indicate about 100 students  staff escaped but many trapped inside  —   some locked down in saferooms #Kabul,  —   TOLOnews (@TOLOnews) August 24, 2016,  TOLO News reports still active gunfire on the scene an hour after the siege began: #AUAF UPDATE  —   Gunfire currently being heard as university attack continues #Kabul,  —   TOLOnews (@TOLOnews) August 24, 2016,  Some are confirming earlier reports that attackers entered through a neighboring school for the blind: جزییات خبر تازه: گزارش‌ها می‌رساند که مهاجمان وارد مکتب نابینایان که در نزدیکی دانشگاه قرار داد، شده‌اند. #افغانستان #AUAF,  —   1TVNewsAF (@1TVNewsAF) August 24, 2016,  Among those believed to be trapped in the complex is Pulitzer   Associated Press photographer Massoud Hossaini, who tweeted that he heard both explosions and gunfire. At least one source stuck inside the university building has confirmed some deaths. “Several students been killed and injured many students and professors are stuck. Some managed to escape, but we are still here. Please help us,” an unidentified student told the Los Angeles Times. According to CBS News, many of those trapped inside are American professors, and “hundreds” of students may still be stuck inside. Reuters confirmed the attack with a member of the Afghan Interior Ministry, and those in Kabul confirm seeing police action in the area. The attack began around 7 PM local time, while multiple classes were still underway. A New York Times writer says sources claim a bomb went off at a nearby school for the blind. Police to our @ZahraYusufi at scene:   exploded in front of school for blind, which is next to American Uni. Attackers inside school.  —   Mujib Mashal (@MujMash) August 24, 2016,  Afghanistan’s TOLO News has published an image of smoke emanating from the campus and confirmed gunmen made their way into the building. Hossaini, meanwhile, has tweeted for help. Help we are stuck inside AUAF and shooting flollowed by Explo this maybe my last tweets,  —   Massoud Hossaini (@Massoud151) August 24, 2016,  Hamid Haidari, a reporter for Afghanistan’s 1TV, confirms that gunfire is ongoing. #AUAF Explosion the fighting is going on pic. twitter.   —   Hamid haideri (@Hamidhaideri) August 24, 2016, Fox News notes this is not the first time in recent memory that the university comes under fire. Earlier this month, two of the university’s employees were abducted “by men in military uniforms,” their fates unclear. 