Billionaire and 2016 GOP presidential frontrunner Donald Trump told Breitbart News on Tuesday in a   exclusive interview that in his estimation, the terrorist attack in Brussels, Belgium, proves terrorists are winning the war against the Western world. The Islamic State, or ISIS, has taken credit for the Brussels attacks.  “The terrorists are totally winning,” Trump said in the interview that lasted more than 30 minutes. “The terrorists are making us look like fools. ” Trump continued by noting that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton —  the Democratic presidential frontrunner who Trump is most likely to face in the general election, assuming he can seal the nomination in the next few months —  is likely to be significantly negatively impacted by the rise of terror on the world stage. “The terrorists will cause Hillary Clinton to lose the election,” Trump said. “She’s weak on borders. She’s weak on crime. She’s weak on anything having to do with controversy other than controversy with herself. She’s weak on the police. She’s weak on anything having to do with strength. Hillary is so weak on the borders, and so afraid to talk negatively about protecting our people, that it will end up costing her the election in my opinion. ” Trump said his previous warning, in an interview with Fox Business Network’s Maria Bartiromo, that Brussels was in danger is why he’s winning in the presidential election. Watch this clip from earlier this year. Time  time again I have been right about terrorism. It’s time to get tough! https:  .   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 22, 2016,  “It’s one of the reasons I’m leading in the polls by so much,” Trump said. Trump also bashed the New York Times for mocking him —  which it did back in January, over that Bartiromo interview —  for making the Brussels prediction. “The New York Times wrote an article because the New York Times doesn’t have a clue,” Trump said. “That’s why they won’t be in business too much longer. I call them ‘the failing New York Times.’ They wrote a mocking article, and so many people have called me about the New York Times article being so wrong. Brussels is a disaster. Brussels is a tinderbox. Brussels is a place I went to years ago —  it was one of the most beautiful cities in the world and totally safe. Now, it’s catastrophic what’s happened to it. Many, many people are saying I was right about so many things. So many things. ” When asked how the United States prevents this type of attack —  and prevents the devaluing of western and U. S. culture by installing pockets of   people like the community in Stockholm, Sweden, that now is called “Little Mogadishu” from popping up —  Trump quadrupled down on his call for a temporary ban on all Muslim migration. “By not allowing the people in,” he said. “That’s how you prevent it, not allowing the people in. There has to be a moratorium. We have to find out what’s going on. Every city you look at, you take a look at Paris, you take a look at —  the police don’t even go into the areas, the police are afraid of the areas. Look at the case of this fugitive. He was the number one fugitive in the world, and he was living right next to where he lived. All of those people knew that he was there and nobody turned him in. ” In Sweden, just this week, 60 Minutes Australia news crews released footage of its trip to Stockholm’s Rinkeby district where young men used a car to run over one of the cameramen’s feet. Police didn’t want to accompany the news crew into the neighborhood, either, as a local political activist walked the television crew through how the migrants from East Africa have a particularly difficult time assimilating into Western culture.  It’s not a problem unique to Europe. The United States has handed out 680, 000 green cards to migrants from Muslim nations over just the past five years, according to a November report from Sen. Jeff Sessions ( ) and his Senate Judiciary Committee subcommittee on Immigration and the National Interest. Trump told Breitbart News it’s time for America to reconsider these policies before things get worse here, as bad as they are getting across Europe. “I think we have to go and we have to   our entire policy of entrance into this country,” Trump said. “We shouldn’t allow the Syrians to come in, who have no documentation. We don’t know where they come from, we don’t know where they’ve been. We don’t know why they’re not fighting for their country. You know, you take a look at the Syrians —  so many in the migration are young men. Why, you say to yourself, are there so many young men and fewer women and children than you would expect? You’ve heard that before, right? We have to be very, very smart, very tough and very vigilant. And if we’re not, we’re going to end up in the same situation as so many of these other countries. ” Trump also noted that Germany and Sweden could be headed for the same fates as Brussels and Paris already have, because of what their feckless leaders have done. “Germany is a disaster now,” Trump said, slamming German Chancellor Angela Merkel without naming her. “You know what’s going on over there? It’s a catastrophe. Germany is a disaster. What she has done to Germany is unbelievable, what’s going on over there. There’s so many other places. In Sweden, you have an area that you just mentioned that is catastrophic. So, so dangerous. And you say to yourself, what are we doing? What are we doing?” Trump said the solution to the problem is not taking these Syrians and Muslim migrants from other nations in here in America. He said, instead, what should happen is the creation of safe zones in the Middle East. “What should happen is the United States and a bunch of other countries should get together —  funded by the Gulf States, because they have tremendous amounts of money —  and we should build a safe zone,” Trump said. “It should be in Syria. Or a number of safe zones, in different parts of Syria, where you build until the war ends and they can go back —  if they want to —  they can go back to where they want to be. But, absolutely, we should not be taking undocumented people into this country. ” Trump worries that it may perhaps be too late to stop lots of these attacks from occurring throughout the Western world, including in the Untied States, but said if voters elect the right president they can certainly tamp own the efforts of the Islamists. “A lot of the people we’re talking about, there’s absolutely no way of verifying where they come from,” Trump said. “They could be very much   and we know what two radicalized people could do where they killed the 14 people [in San Bernardino] right? We saw what two did in California. We saw the havoc that they wreaked on a very important part of the world. We have to be very strong, we have to be very vigilant and we have to be very, very smart. And if we’re not, we’re going to have problems. We probably already do have those problems. It’s already probably too late because many people have been allowed into our country that we should have never, in a million years, allowed. You’ve seen it in Boston [with the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing]. You know the amazing thing about Boston? When those kids came in they were very young —  so they weren’t even under the influence as much when we took them in. They didn’t even become radicalized until they were older and they didn’t even become radicalized over there. ” Trump said electing him president the solution to these concerns, because his strong stances on security would prevent this from happening. “One of the many reasons I’m leading in the polls is my stance on border security,” Trump said. “My stance on border security is by far the strongest of any candidate to date, and it’s one of the reasons I’m leading by a lot in the polls. ” More of Trump’s latest exclusive interview with Breitbart News are forthcoming.