NEW YORK CITY, New York  —   Presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump officially announced Indiana Gov. Mike Pence as his running mate in a tweet on Friday, but the two appeared together for the first time in New York City on Saturday morning, where the billionaire touted the duo as the “law and order candidates. ”[“I found the leader who will help us deliver a safe society,” Trump said of his “first choice” for vice president (VP) Pence. “We are the law and order candidates. ”  Speaking to a group of roughly 300 supporters inside a ballroom at the Hilton in Midtown Manhattan, Trump added, “I’ve admired the work he’s done especially in the state of Indiana. ” Trump said Pence will help him fix the “rigged system” in Washington, D. C. “He fights for the people and he’s going to fight for you,” Trump added, calling Pence “a solid person. ” The billionaire said “one of the reasons is part of unity” for why Pence was tapped as his VP. As an outsider, he suggested Pence  —   who has experience both in Congress and as a governor  —   can help unite the party. Trump also praised Pence’s record on decreasing unemployment in Indiana, increasing the labor force, growing private sector jobs and balancing the budget. The real estate mogul compared the Indiana governor, who he said is a “man of honor,” to presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, who Trump labeled a “corrupt person. ” The presumptive Republican nominee took time to comment on the recent terrorist attack in Nice, France and the turmoil in Turkey, blaming presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and President Obama for the unrest and terrorism across the world. “We’ve witnessed horror beyond belief. No matter where you look and now it’s happening more and more,” Trump added about terrorism. “We need new leadership. We need new thinking. We need strength. We need in our country law and order and if I’m elected president, that will happen. ” “After four years of Clinton who really led the way and led Obama down a horrible path because I don’t even think she could have made these decisions so badly  …     Iraq, Syria  —   all into chaos  —   and Iran is on a path to nuclear weapons,” Trump criticized of his rival, the former secretary of state. “Now we’re seeing unrest in Turkey  —   a further demonstration of the failures of  . ” The presumptive Republican nominee originally planned to appear with Pence on Friday morning in New York City, but due to the terrorist attack in Nice, France on Thursday night the event was postponed until Saturday. “I thank Donald Trump with the confidence you’ve placed in us,” Pence said referencing his family when he took the podium after the billionaire introduced him. “I come to this moment deeply humbled. ” Trump’s VP said he was grateful to God for the opportunity to be Trump’s running mate, saying the billionaire will bring   leadership to Washington, D. C. “Donald Trump is a good man and he will make a great President of the United States of America,” he praised. “Donald Trump understands the frustrations and the hopes of the American people [like no one has] since Ronald Reagan. ” The Indiana governor praised Trump’s strength and leadership in comparison to Clinton. Pence had endorsed Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) during the Indiana GOP primary  —   but sang praise for Trump as well during the primary endorsement  —   and in early May, Pence vowed that he would back the presumptive Republican nominee. The billionaire commented on Pence’s earlier endorsement of Cruz, joking about how he also praised Trump During Cruz’s endorsement. “He talked about Trump  …     Ted  —   then he went back to Trump,” the presumptive Republican nominee recalled. “I said, ‘Who did he endorse? ’” The crowd laughed, and Trump added, “It was the single greatest   I’ve ever had. ” Following the joint appearance together in New York City, Pence is traveling back to his home state for a “Welcome Home Rally” in Zionsville, Indiana scheduled for Saturday night.