A Tennessee jury convicted a former Vanderbilt University football player of rape charges on Saturday after weighing evidence that he invited three teammates to sexually assault an unconscious woman in his dorm room. Over five days of testimony in a Nashville courtroom, prosecutors portrayed Brandon Vandenburg, 23, as encouraging the 2013 attack, passing out condoms and recording video that he sent to friends. Reporters in the courtroom said Mr. Vandenburg shook his head as the jury foreman read the verdict: guilty on all counts, five of aggravated rape, two of aggravated sexual battery and one of unlawful photography. In a front row, his mother sobbed. “It’s impossible to not to be emotional about this case,” Jan Norman, an assistant district attorney, said after the verdict. “The facts of it are horrific. ” Prosecutors say three other men were present in Mr. Vandenburg’s room during the attack in June 2013. One, Cory Batey, was convicted along with Mr. Vandenburg last year during a joint trial. Those verdicts were thrown out after it was revealed that one of the jurors had not disclosed during the trial that he had once been a victim of statutory rape. During a retrial in April, Mr. Batey was again found guilty of aggravated rape and other charges. The two other men, Jaborian McKenzie and Brandon Banks, have pleaded not guilty and are awaiting trial. The trial, conducted against the backdrop of a national discussion about sexual assaults on college campuses and the conduct of   gained intense public scrutiny because of the accusations against the defendants, who were Division I athletes at Vanderbilt, a private university. It also drew comparisons to another recent trial. In that case, Brock Turner, a former swimmer at Stanford, was sentenced to six months in jail after being convicted of sexually assaulting an unconscious woman in 2015. The punishment, which many critics denounced as lenient, set off protests that echoed across the country and, on Wednesday, in Congress, where members of the House took turns reading a letter written by the victim. Mr. Vandenburg and Mr. Batey are both facing minimum sentences of 15 years. The law also provided a mandatory minimum in Mr. Turner’s case  —   two years  —   but the judge had discretion to deviate from it. The victim in Nashville, at the time a    neuroscience major, testified that she had been drinking with Mr. Vandenburg at a bar. The next thing she recalled, she said, was waking up alone in his bed, in pain. Questioned by the police four days later, Mr. Vandenburg acknowledged that he had watched the attack. “She got sexually assaulted right in front of me. And I didn’t do anything,” he said during the interrogation, according to The Tennessean. “I should’ve called someone. ” Mr. Vandenburg’s defense argued that he was intoxicated and could not be held responsible for his teammates’ actions. While the state did not accuse Mr. Vandenburg of touching the woman, it argued that he coaxed others to do so. In that regard, said Tom Thurman, the deputy district attorney general, the videos taken by Mr. Vandenburg, some of which were recovered by investigators and shown during the trial, established his culpability beyond any doubt. Randall Reagan, a lawyer for Mr. Vandenburg, said he would appeal.