UK Independence Party (UKIP) Member of the European Parliament (MEP) Jonathan Arnott has released a new video explaining how the European Union is strangling Britain. [Using the example of the United States receiving a new flag, anthem, and being ruled remotely by a parliament  in Guatemala, the video explainer shows why the British are so fed up of EU membership, and why U. S. president Obama is misguided in his forthcoming intervention.  Showing national control over Congress, the Supreme Court, the military, healthcare, and even world trade expatriated the film makes the point the United Kingdom and other EU members are forced to put up with enormous abuses of power that average Americans would never stand for at home. Yet Mr. Obama will encourage Brits to vote to stay during his visit to the United Kingdom this week. Mr. Obama was “begged” by British Prime Minister David Cameron to make the intervention, so has revealed a former leader of the Conservative party and until recently minister for work and pensions, Iain Duncan Smith, as reported by Breitbart London. Mr. Cameron is so desperate to win the referendum on Britain’s continuing membership of the European Union he went “on bended knee to him and said, ‘come over and help us bully the British people into making a decision” according to the claims. Obama has consistently said he favours a strong Britain in a strong EU. Aides say he is likely to reinforce that message. Privately, US officials are less reticent in their opinions as Britain’s departure would deprive the United States of a key conduit for relations with Europe. Seen from Washington, Cameron’s decision to call a referendum was a bold  —   if not downright risky. Polls put the   and Brexit camps    among those who express a preference to vote, although there is a large pool of people who remain undecided. Cameron, the   campaign’s figurehead, has been seriously embarrassed by revelations that he benefited from an offshore tax dodge. His standing also took a blow when Obama suggested the prime minister had been too “distracted” to deal with the aftermath of the intervention in Libya. Despite that apparent   officials insist the two men enjoy a familiar and constructive working relationship. AFP Contributed to this report.  