Donald Trump’s Saturday rally in Orlando, Florida featured Laura Wilkerson, whose 18   son, Joshua, was tortured to death by an illegal alien. [Wilkerson urged the Florida crowd to support Trump and reject Marco Rubio, whom she described as “the biggest champion for amnesty in Washington D. C. He lied to every single Florida voter, he put their lives and the lives of countless others at risk. ”  “Florida voters have a chance to deliver justice for all of the families who have suffered from our open borders and can finally stop amnesty with their vote,” Wilkerson declared. “They need to gather their friends, their family, their coworkers and go to the polls on March 15th. ” Wilkerson said that Rubio “betrayed” Florida voters and “should have resigned in disgrace. ” As a banner featuring the pictures of the American victims of illegal alien crime was rolled out before the audience to see, the Florida crowd of thousands began to loudly chant, “No Marco, No Marco, No Marco, No Marco,” over and over again. Wilkerson’s speech comes on the heels of an open letter to Republican voters signed by American families whose loved ones have been murdered, raped, maimed, and tortured by illegal aliens. In their open letter, the American victims urge Republican voters to “Reject Rubio. ” During her address, Wilkerson confirmed the account of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Council President, Chris Crane, who —  in an interview with Breitbart News last month —   explained that in crafting the Gang of Eight bill, Rubio “never reached out to” the nation’s ICE officers. Instead, Rubio “surrounded himself with big business and amnesty groups, most of which were more interested in cheap labor and their own political agendas, and had no real concern  …     public safety  …     he ignored boots on the ground law enforcement officers. ” Crane wrote that Rubio “actively chose to exclude us because of his own personal agenda. ” Wilkerson similarly explained: In 2013, he became a key member of the Gang of Eight —  pushing the largest amnesty in history in the U. S. Senate. It was blocked in the House. Rubio betrayed and violated every promise he had ever made. He lied about the bill every single day. He claimed this bill was not amnesty and would not reward law breakers. He lied and he lied and he lied —  shoving the bill down the throats of the American people. Rubio met with big business interests and open borders interests but he shut out the families like myself —  the victims —  and law enforcement agents. He never talked to us. He never reached out to us. I don’t think [he sees the need to talk to people who] don’t have a hundred billion dollars in their pocket. He cared more about raising money than protecting American lives. Rubio was Obama’s amnesty pitchman —  putting the country and its people in grave jeopardy. Rubio’s bill gave amnesty to sex offenders, child molesters, gang members, drunk drivers, domestic abusers and countless criminal aliens. He should have resigned in disgrace at that point. During her address, Wilkerson detailed Rubio’s long history of pushing to open America’s borders. “As Speaker of the Florida House, Rubio killed a bill to stop sanctuary cities, and pushed   tuition for illegal aliens,” Wilkerson explained as the crowd erupted in boos. “In 2010, Rubio campaigned for the United States Senate on the promise to block amnesty for illegal aliens. He betrayed that promise in the worst possible way —  becoming the biggest champion for amnesty in Washington D. C. He lied to every single Florida voter he put their lives and the lives of countless others at risk. ” “In 2012, Rubio began pushing the DREAM Act in the United States Senate —  the kid that murdered Josh fit that ‘DREAM’ description,” Wilkerson said. I think the thing that really made my decision about who to vote for this time is that I believe whole heartedly that Donald Trump has both feet firmly planted in America. I believe Marco Rubio has one foot here and one foot wherever his backers need him to be. I want someone who loves America again —  who will stand up and commend our military, our policemen, the border patrol agent [and who will] get out of the way and let them do the jobs they’ve been hired to do. They deserve our utmost respect. I want to thank Mr. Trump for allowing me tell my story. Just don’t forget that I am one of thousands. “Whether it’s rape, murder, drunk drivers —  it happens every day, in every state, in every city whether you realize it or not,” Wilkerson said. “America not only has the right to know whose in its country —  but we have a duty —  the government has a duty to protect Americans —  to know who is in this country. “Vote for Donald Trump,” Wilkerson told the crowd. “I believe he loves America. It’s time for someone to stand up and say  …     ‘We have the best policemen, it’s time we have the best government again. ’” Again the crowd began to chant, “No Marco. ” On previous occasions, Wilkerson has courageously recounted the horrific details of Joshua’s murder  —   as part of her tireless efforts to demand action and prevent such tragedies from happening to other American families. As Breitbart News previously reported, last year she testified before Congress. Wilkerson told lawmakers: On November 16, 2010, he [Josh] was beaten, strangled, tortured until he died. He was tied up, thrown in a field, and set on fire. His killer, Hermilo Moralez, was brought here illegally by his illegal parents when he was ten years old, so he fit the ‘DREAM’ kid description. He was sentenced to life in prison, which means it will be 30 years before he’s up for parole. He’ll be a    man, who I don’t expect to be deported. And I just hope he doesn’t come to live in your city. During her testimony, Wilkerson read aloud portions of her son’s   autopsy: “’This body is received in a grey body bag. There’s a tag on his toe that bears the name, Joshua Wilkerson. This is a white male weighing a hundred pounds. He is tied up with braided rope  —   13 loops around his neck in a slipknot. It goes behind his back through his back belt loop. It goes to his hands and his feet, behind his body. He has multiple fractures in his face and nasal cavity. His throat and his voicebox are crushed.’ He was kicked so hard in the stomach that it sent his spleen into his spine, and sliced it in two  …     The medical examiner said it was torture. ” Returning to the text of her   old son’s autopsy, Wilkerson continued: “‘This body has significant skin loss on his buttocks, his abdomen, his penis, his hands, and his face. He has one stick of gum and a tardy slip in his pocket. ’”