The Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro may end up known more for the athletes who are not there than the ones who are. The golfer Rory McIlroy said Wednesday that he would skip the Rio Games, which are set to begin in August, because of concerns about the Zika virus, becoming the   athlete yet to withdraw over the health scare. Because of doping offenses, Russia’s track and field team and Bulgaria’s weight lifting team  —   rosters that would have included several gold medal contenders  —   have been told they are not welcome at the Rio Games. Some Kenyan athletes are also in danger of being barred because of doping. McIlroy, a hugely popular sports figure who was scheduled to play for Ireland, joins a growing list of athletes pulling out of the Games over Zika concerns, among them the American cyclist Tejay van Garderen and the golfers Marc Leishman of Australia and Vijay Singh of Fiji. John Speraw, the coach of the United States men’s volleyball team, has said he will preserve sperm for a possible future pregnancy before traveling to Rio, and the Spanish basketball star Pau Gasol has said he is considering doing the same. Anxiety over Zika, a   virus linked to severe birth defects, has cast a cloud over preparations for the Summer Games. With six weeks to go until the Games begin, McIlroy’s decision is expected to intensify the debate over the wisdom of staging the Games amid a public health emergency. Olympic officials have rejected the notion that athletes should not be asked to subject themselves to such health hazards, saying the risk is minimal. McIlroy’s decision is a major blow for the Olympics, and not simply because he is a former world No. 1 and winner of four majors. McIlroy, 27, the   European in the world at No. 4, was one of the few   golfers who seemed committed to competing in Rio. He had gone to the trouble of being vaccinated per travel recommendations  —   no small inconvenience as the shots left his shoulder numb, he said, making it uncomfortable to swing a golf club for two days. Other golfers may follow McIlroy. Jason Day of Australia, the world No. 1, has expressed reservations about competing in Rio because of Zika. His countryman Adam Scott, a former world No. 1, was among the first to remove himself from consideration for the Summer Games, citing scheduling conflicts. The   American, Jordan Spieth, ranked No. 2 in the world, once wholeheartedly embraced the Olympic experience. He has been more tempered in his enthusiasm recently. But he is expected to compete because he is a brand ambassador for   which is the longest continuous sponsor of the Olympics, having been aligned with the competition since 1928. Still, several of the world’s best athletes will be absent. On Tuesday, the president of the International Olympic Committee, Thomas Bach, endorsed the decision by track and field’s world governing body to bar Russia’s team from the Olympics. (Russia won 18 medals at the last Summer Games, in 2012 in London.) Bach also called for heightened scrutiny of athletes from Kenya, where antidoping efforts have been found lacking. McIlroy’s patriotism lured him across the Atlantic from his Florida home base to watch his countrymen from Northern Ireland play Germany on Tuesday in a European Championships soccer match. And more than most golfers who did not grow up dreaming of Olympic glory, he seemed to grasp the grandeur of the Summer Games, which have not featured golf since 1904. McIlroy mingled with the world’s athletes in 2012 when he watched his   Caroline Wozniacki compete in tennis at the London Games. But circumstances change, and McIlroy, who is engaged to Erica Stoll, decided the risks of competing in Rio outweighed the potential rewards. “After speaking with those closest to me, I’ve come to realize that my health, and my family’s health, comes before anything else,” McIlroy said in a statement. “Even though the risk of infection from the Zika virus is considered low, it is a risk nonetheless, and a risk I am unwilling to take. ” None of the world’s top female golfers have backed out of the Olympics, even though they ostensibly face a greater health risk. The women, who do not have as high a profile as the men, are perhaps more determined to compete in the Olympics because winning a medal carries greater value for them in terms of increasing their exposure. The Olympics were fraught with complications for McIlroy from the start. As a Northern Irishman, he had the choice to compete for Britain or Ireland. In 2012, he earned the animus of people in Ireland, including those in the Golfing Union of Ireland who had shepherded his development, by suggesting that he was leaning toward representing Britain because he had always felt more British than Irish. In 2013, he said, “If I was a bit more selfish, I think it would be an easier decision. ” He later pledged his allegiance to Ireland, and when asked in May about his commitment to competing, he said he was focused on the bigger picture. With golf guaranteed a spot in the Olympics for only the next two Summer Games, he said, it was imperative that the sport put its best foot forward. “I’m not sure if we’re going to have another opportunity to win a gold medal after that,” McIlroy said, adding: “It’s off to a rocky start. If we don’t do something to change the narrative and get people excited about it, I’m worried what will happen. ” McIlroy’s decision to forgo the Summer Games suggests that however reluctantly, he has chosen his own interests over the greater good of developing the game. Before the Wells Fargo Championship in May, McIlroy acknowledged that he had misgivings about going to Rio because of the health dangers posed by Zika and the crammed golf calendar. Between Sunday’s conclusion of the United States Open and the scheduled start of the men’s golf competition at the Olympics on Aug. 11, the players will contest two majors and a World Golf Championships event, with the Ryder Cup looming on the   horizon. McIlroy, who fell out of the top three in the world rankings this week for the first time in 23 months, alluded to the scheduling morass in May when he said, “I feel like the officials were patting themselves on the back for getting golf in,” instead of treating the sport’s inclusion in the Olympics as the first step in a marathon of planning. Since a 2009 decision to add golf to the Summer Olympics program, the reaction of the top players has been lukewarm. With four majors, the FedEx Cup playoffs and team events like the Ryder Cup and the Presidents Cup to focus on, the value of an Olympic medal is not the same as it is for swimmers, track and field athletes, fencers, archers and other athletes for whom the Olympics is the pinnacle of their sport. McIlroy has earned more than $2 million on the PGA Tour in the   season without winning an event and has earned well over $1 million in the same time period on the European Tour, on which he has won once. There is   over the preparedness of every Olympic host city, but these Summer Games have presented   concerns, including crime, an economic crisis that has delayed the completion of Olympic infrastructure, contaminated water and the suspension of Brazil’s president, Dilma Rousseff. That makes it hard to ascertain where the Olympic defectors’ concerns about Zika end and where their general worries about Rio’s readiness to serve as a world host begin. In a statement, the International Golf Federation, the Olympic organizing body for golf, expressed disappointment with McIlroy’s decision, saying it “recognizes that some players will have to weigh personally a unique set of circumstances as they contemplate their participation in golf’s historic return to the Olympic Games. ” It added, “The Olympics is the world’s greatest celebration of sport, and we remain excited about golf’s return after a   absence. ”