A column by Washington Post writer Stuart Karle compares billionaire Peter Thiel’s involvement in the Gawker trial to press intimidation in 1950s by white racists in the South. [Karle’s column compares Thiel’s involvement in Hulk Hogan’s lawsuit against the online media giant to tactics used by white racists in the South, who threatened journalists covering the violent response to efforts to desegregate the South in the 1950s and ’60s.  According to Karle, Thiel’s decision to help finance Hogan’s trial is similar to elected officials in Alabama in 1960 who filed suit against The New York Times for bringing attention to the intense opposition to protests by black students. On March 29, 1960, the Times published an describing the “unprecedented wave of terror” by Southern officials trying to shut down protests by black students. Although the harsh criticism was accurate, the ad contained a number of factual inaccuracies. Five Alabama elected officials filed libel actions against the Times over the  demanding a total of $3 million in damages for the harm it supposedly inflicted. This represented a remarkable sum at a time the newspaper’s own lawyer was told it was barely making a profit. Karle ignores that the source of financing for Hogan’s lawsuit had no impact on the facts of the case, the laws in question, or the ruling. Despite that jurors in the case claimed that they have “absolutely no doubt that the decision we made was absolutely correct,” Gawker apologists like Karle still contend that Thiel unfairly influenced the outcome of the trial. In a recent New York Times piece, Thiel explained his motivations for getting involved in the trial: Despite this explanation, Karle argues that Thiel simply wanted to drive Gawker out of business and, because of this, deserves as much public scrutiny as racist Southern officials who attempted to silence   who protested segregation. However, it seems to be Karle’s blind rejection of Gawker’s actual sin of defamation that has allowed him to make such an unusual comparison between a historic victim and a modern aggressor. Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or on Facebook. You can email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com