RIO DE JANEIRO (AP)  —   Michael Phelps closed out the Rio Olympics in the only way imaginable. [Golden.  Phelps put the United States ahead to stay on the butterfly leg of the 4×100 medley relay and Nathan Adrian finished it off, giving the most decorated athlete in Olympic history his 23rd career gold medal. If that was the end, and Phelps insists it is, what a way to go out. He would finish his career with 28 medals overall, having won five golds and a silver at these games.   gold medalist Ryan Murphy put the Americans out front with a   split on the backstroke  —   it counts since he was leading off  —   but Britain surged ahead on the breaststroke with its own   holder, Adam Peaty. Phelps dove into the pool in second place. He wouldn’t be for long. On the return lap, Phelps powered through the water with his whirling butterfly stroke, surging ahead of James Guy to pass off a lead to the anchor Adrian. It wasn’t in doubt after that. Adrian pulled away on the freestyle to win in an   time of 3 minutes, 27. 95 seconds. Britain held on for silver, with Australia nabbing bronze. The victory came just minutes after the women’s medley relay gave the United States its 1, 000th Olympic gold medal at the Summer Games. Kathleen Baker, Lilly King, Dana Vollmer and Simone Manuel led the American triumph. The winning time was 3:53. 13. Australia earned silver, while Denmark took bronze. For Manuel, it was her second medal of the night  —   she also won silver in the 50 free  —   and second gold of the games. She became the first   woman to win an Olympic swimming title with her win in the 100 free. Connor Jaeger gave the U. S. another silver in the 1, 500 free, leaving the American with 33 swimming medals in Rio  —   matching the highest total since the boycotted Los Angeles Games in 1984. The U. S. also won 33 medals at Sydney in 2000. The final two individual medals of the games went to Pernille Blume of Denmark in the 50 freestyle, her country’s first swimming gold since 1948, and Italy’s Gregorio Paltrinieri in the grueling 1, 500 free. After posting the top time in both the preliminaries and the semifinals, Blume came through again on the final night of swimming at the Rio Games. She finished in 24. 07. After her landmark victory in the 100 free, Manuel settled for silver this time in 24. 09. Aliaksandra Herasimenia of Belarus earned the bronze in 24. 11. It was another huge disappointment for sisters Cate and Bronte Campbell of Australia. They were shut out of an individual medal again, with Cate finishing fifth and Bronte seventh. Blume was the third Danish swimmer to capture a gold. Greta Andersen won the 100 free and Karen Margrethe Harup took the 100 backstroke at the 1948 London Olympics. Paltrinieri pulled away from the field and was under   pace much of the race before fading a bit at the end. Still, he won comfortably in 14:34. 57. Jaeger claimed silver in 14:39. 48, while bronze went to another Italian, Gabriele Detti, in 14:40. 86. Detti rallied over the final laps to pass American Jordan Wilimovksy, who settled for fourth. Wilimovksy will get another shot at a medal in an even more demanding event  —   the   open water race at Fort Copacabana on Tuesday. ___, Follow Paul Newberry on Twitter at www. twitter.  . His work can be found at 