The Supreme Court on Thursday issued rulings in two   cases on immigration and affirmative action. Here’s a brief rundown of what the court decided and what it means: What was the case? Fisher v. University of Texas, No.   was brought by Abigail Fisher, a white woman who claimed that she had been denied admission to the University of Texas, Austin, because of her race. Under a provision known as the Top 10 Percent program (the actual percentage can vary in practice) high school students from Texas who finish near the top of their class are guaranteed admission to the state’s public universities. The universities evaluate the remaining students using a number of criteria, including race and ethnicity. This practice is similar to processes at colleges and universities throughout the country. What did the court rule? The court rejected the challenge,   handing a major victory to supporters of affirmative action. In a lengthy dissent from the bench, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. criticized his colleagues and defined the university’s practices as “affirmative action gone berserk. ” Justice Elena Kagan did not vote in the case after recusing herself because of her previous work on the case. What does the ruling mean? The decision means that the university can still consider factors like race and ethnicity when evaluating other prospective students. What was the case? The case concerned President Obama’s attempt to shield unauthorized immigrants who are parents of citizens or lawful permanent residents from deportation while providing them with work permits. When Mr. Obama introduced the plan in 2014, he virtually dared the   Congress to fight him on the issue, defending the series of executive actions as being within his authority. “The actions I’m taking are not only lawful they’re the kinds of actions taken by every single Republican president and every Democratic president for the past ” he said. A coalition of 26 states, led by Texas, disagreed and challenged the plan, arguing that it ignored procedures for rule changes and abused the power of the president’s office. A federal judge shut down the program pending its legal case in early 2015, an action that was later upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans. What did the Supreme Court decide? The court deadlocked,   in the case: United States v. Texas, No.  . The stalemate was made possible by the empty seat left by Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February. What does the stalemate mean? The deadlock was a sharp blow to Mr. Obama’s ambitious plan, which he had hoped would become one of his lasting legacies. It also amplified the     debate over immigration policy and presidential authority. There are three cases remaining to be decided by the court this month. • Perhaps the most keenly anticipated is a major abortion case that could affect millions of American women. The case, Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, challenges a Texas law that imposes severe restrictions on abortion clinics  —   requiring, for example, that doctors have admitting privileges at hospitals nearby  —   ostensibly to protect women’s health. Critics have argued that the law would force most of the state’s clinics to close. As they heard arguments in March, the justices appeared to be sharply divided over the case, as The Times’s Adam Liptak reported. • Also pending is a decision in the case of Bob McDonnell, the former governor of Virginia, who challenged his conviction on public corruption. In that case, McDonnell v. United States, the justices seem prepared to side with Mr. McDonnell, who has argued that prosecutors went too far in interpreting routine political favors as corruption, Mr. Liptak reported. Mr. McDonnell faces two years in prison. • The third decision to come centers on a case involving domestic violence. President Obama said in a news conference Thursday that the court’s action on immigration further set back the United States from being the kind of country that “we aspire to be. ” Mr. Obama said the deadlock was “frustrating” to those who sought to grow the economy and bring rationality to the immigration system, as well as to those who wished to “come out of the shadows” and lift this “perpetual cloud on them. ” He called the justices’ inability to come to a decision a “very clear reminder” of why it was so important for the Supreme Court to have a full bench, emphasizing the importance of lawmakers’ acting on his nominee for the open spot, Merrick B. Garland. Mr. Obama said existing immigration programs would continue, adding, “I promise you this: Sooner or later, immigration reform will get done. ” Mr. Obama also asked whether Americans would continue to tolerate the “hypocrisy” of having people “make our beds” or “pick our fruit” without allowing them to have a chance to “get right with the law,” or whether the country would take actions that would divide families. These are questions that voters would have to weigh for the election in November, he added. He said that Congress must now pass a law, and that he hoped there would be a “vigorous debate” in the coming election. Hillary Clinton shared her reaction on Twitter: So did Donald J. Trump: And politicians like the speaker of the House, Paul D. Ryan, and Senator Harry Reid: Others on social media weighed in: