TEL AVIV  —   As the Obama administration and Israel continue to negotiate a Memorandum of Understanding to govern military aid to the Jewish state, Donald Trump adviser David Friedman told an Israeli news channel on Wednesday that Israel would receive a better aid package under a future Trump presidency. [“Our view is that the aid package to Israel will certainly not go down, it in all likelihood will go up in a materiel amount because Israel must maintain a technological and military superiority within in the region,” Friedman told Israel’s Channel 2.  “I can’t give advice on how Israel should bargain and how it should develop its own strategy but certainly the Trump administration is not looking to cut back on foreign aid and will in all likely hood increase it significantly,” he stated. Some have recommended that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wait until after President Obama’s term in office expires to finalize the renewal of a   defense package. Friedman’s comments come on the same day Trump launched a blistering attack on Hillary Clinton’s foreign and domestic policies. Trump said Clinton’s actions as secretary of state “opened the Pandora’s box of radical Islam” even while she “refuses to acknowledge the threat posed by Radical Islam. ” In a televised address from his hotel in New York’s SoHo neighborhood, Trump strongly criticized Clinton’s policies while she was Secretary of State, including her leadership role in advocating for the U. S.  NATO intervention in Libya. Trump also spotlighted Clinton’s role in allegedly denying security requests to the fated U. S. Special Mission in Benghazi, her support for the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and for the rebels targeting Syrian President Bashar  ’s regime, and her involvement with the Iran nuclear deal. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.