The Islamic Republic of Iran revealed Tuesday what appeared to be an underground missile base, with   footage showcasing a stockpile of   missiles. [The Emad missiles shown in the video appear to violate a 2010 UN Security Council resolution that banned Iran from developing   ballistic weapons, Reuters reports.  Iran’s unveiling of the underground facility comes less than a week after the White House bailed out on an effort to impose sanctions on the Ayatollah’s regime. Sanctions were reportedly going to be implemented following Iran’s blatant violation of international resolutions, but the Obama administration backed down, reportedly at the request of Tehran. An Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) unit staffs the underground missile facility, which was built in a mountain range likely to protect the site against air strikes. Ali Larijiani, a   regime official who serves as its parliament speaker, visited the base on Tuesday, according to   Tasnim News Agency. This new “missile city,” described as a “seemingly impregnable mountain base,” is the second such facility inside Iran, the state media outlet claims. Buried at the site are what the regime claims to be its Emad missiles. The Emad is a ballistic missile with an alleged range of over 1, 000 miles. The regime also claims the Emad has an advanced guidance system. UN sanctions monitors suspect the Emad is capable of delivering a nuclear weapon, which would make the powerful weapon blacklisted in violation of the UN Security Council resolution. “Tehran has repeatedly stated that its military might is defensive in nature and poses no threat to other countries,” the article in the   concludes. This latest revelation becomes at least the third incident that shows Iran has violated international sanctions and resolutions. The regime has already conducted two ballistic missile tests in recent months, following the signing of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) otherwise known as the Iran nuclear deal. Last week, Iran vowed to “speed up” its missile program. “In view of America’s recent hostile steps and the esteemed President (Hassan Rouhani)’s emphasis, we will increase the speed and scope of our missile capabilities,” Defense Minister Hossein Dehqan told   PressTV on New Year’s Day. “Iran’s missile capabilities have never been the subject of negotiations with the Americans and will never be. Iran’s defense power is a guarantee for security and stability in the region. ”