WASHINGTON  —   Three agents knocked on the door of a modest duplex in a Wisconsin town just after dawn. The Mexican immigrant living on the ground floor stuck his head out They asked his name and he gave it. Within minutes José Cervantes Amaral was in handcuffs as his wife, also from Mexico, silently watched. After 18 years working and living quietly in the United States, Mr. Cervantes, who did not have legal papers, rode away in the back seat, heading for deportation. It is a routine that continues daily. The Supreme Court on Thursday effectively ended initiatives by President Obama that would have given protection from deportation to more than four million immigrants in the country illegally, most of them parents of American citizens. Mr. Obama showed his frustration with the decision, saying his goal was to help immigrants who had raised families here and helped the country with their work. The president said immigrants who might have qualified for the programs would still be safe from deportation. Still, deportations continue, thousands every week. In November 2014 when Mr. Obama first announced the protection programs, he also set new priorities for enforcement. Since then, immigration authorities say, their focus is on removing convicted criminals and foreigners who pose national security threats. But the administration’s priorities also include deporting migrants from Central America, including children, who came in an influx since 2014. And immigrants who committed minor offenses  —   or none at all  —   are often swept up in the operations. After Thursday’s Supreme Court decision, the president’s protections are gone, but the enforcement plan remains in effect. It is part of a particularly edgy moment for immigrants and their supporters framed by the Supreme Court ruling, Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign and Britain’s surprise vote, influenced in part by   sentiments, to leave the European Union. Last year, immigration authorities deported 235, 413 people, according to official figures. Of those, 59 percent were convicted criminals, and 98 percent fit within the administration’s priorities, Department of Homeland Security officials said. The top priority includes foreigners who pose a threat to national or border security or to public safety. Other priorities are for people with serious criminal records, but they also include any migrant caught entering the country illegally after Jan. 1, 2014. Homeland Security officials said Friday that the Supreme Court decision would have no effect on the pace or strategy of enforcement. “Our limited enforcement resources will not be focused on the removal of those who have committed no serious crimes, have been in this country for years and have families here,” said Marsha Catron, a spokeswoman for the department. “Under this policy, these people are not priorities for removal, nor should they be. ” Mr. Obama has carried out many more deportations than previous presidents, setting a record of more than 2. 4 million formal removals. But Republican lawmakers point to a sharp decrease in deportations  —   down 43 percent in 2015 from 409, 849 in 2012  —   to say that Mr. Obama has all but stopped enforcing immigration law. “When will the Obama administration end its reckless policies that wreak havoc on our communities?” asked Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, the Virginia Republican who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. But what is not enough enforcement for some is too much for others. This week, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is known as ICE, said it had arrested 331 immigrants in May and June in Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Kansas and Missouri. The operations were its “latest effort to arrest and remove convicted criminal aliens,” said Ricardo Wong, the director of the agency’s office in Chicago. “By focusing our resources on the most egregious offenders,” Mr. Wong said, “we ensure the very best use of our resources while immediately improving public safety. ” One of those arrested was Mr. Cervantes. In 2006, Mr. Cervantes said in an interview by telephone on Friday, he was caught up in an immigration raid at a factory near his workplace. Local police who assisted in the raid arrested him, finding  —   mistakenly, he says  —   that he was working with documents under a false name. Mr. Cervantes, a construction worker, pleaded guilty to an identity theft offense, a   felony. A decade later, after he and his wife raised two daughters in Genoa City, Wis. immigration agents came to his door to deport him. “The shock for my wife was very strong,” Mr. Cervantes said. She has been in treatment at local hospitals for kidney cancer, he said. “If we have to go back to Mexico, I won’t have her for long. ” He has been released while he fights his immigration case. “The administration is continuing to deport people who should not be a priority,” said Christine   executive director of Voces de la Frontera, an organization that assisted Mr. Cervantes. Mr. Obama, she said, “can do much more to prevent the unnecessary breakup of families. ” Some clearly are in the priority group. On Friday, Immigration and Customs Enforcement said it had arrested 45 foreigners who had been listed by Interpol as wanted for serious crimes, including three men from El Salvador sought in connection with gang killings. Immigration agents have conducted many roundups of drug traffickers and human smugglers. At the same time, a    migrant from Honduras, Wildin Acosta, was still being held in an immigration detention center in Lumpkin, Ga. five months after he was arrested when he was heading to high school in Durham, N. C. In 2014, Mr. Acosta crossed the border illegally and turned himself in to border agents, asking for asylum. Since he was 17 at the time and traveling without his parents, he was held under special protections for unaccompanied minors. He was sent to live with his parents, who had settled years before in Durham. He started going to high school, made friends who helped him learn English and joined a local soccer league. He presented a formal request for asylum in the United States, saying in legal papers that he fled Honduras after two close relatives were murdered. But he missed a date in immigration court and a judge ordered him deported. Mr. Acosta also turned 19, making him too old, immigration officials said, to be given deference as a minor. Mr. Acosta was among dozens of teenagers as well as mothers and smaller children from Central America who were arrested in an operation by immigration agents over one weekend in late January. Homeland Security Department officials said that because of his recent border crossing, Mr. Acosta was among the highest priorities for deportation. The arrests caused panic in immigrant communities in Durham. Teachers, lawmakers and community leaders mobilized to protest. Mr. Acosta’s lawyer, Evelyn Smallwood, has forestalled his deportation but has not secured his release. “He is a good kid, and he is doing everything he can to keep his sanity,” she said. “The administration has said it is as important to remove Wildin as it is to remove a drug trafficker or a terrorist. ”