The WikiLeaks document dump of Hillary Clinton’s paid speeches revealed the Democratic nominee told a private group in 2013 that the country of Jordan “can’t possibly vet all those [Syrian] refugees   …     so they don’t know if   …     jihadists are coming in along with legitimate refugees. ”[Clinton’s remarks, made in an October 28, 2013, speech to the Jewish United Fund of Metropolitan Chicago’s Vanguard Luncheon, for which she was paid $400, 000, according to the Citizen Uprising website, are in stark contrast to the public position she has taken during her current campaign for president.  As recently as September 19, she said that “tough vetting” of refugees “is a serious challenge, [but] we are   to meet it, and we can do so in keeping with smart law enforcement, good intelligence and in concert with our values. ” At a speech given in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on December 15, 2015, Clinton said: We also have to be vigilant in screening and vetting refugees from Syria, guided by the best judgment of our security and diplomatic professionals. Rigorous vetting already takes place while these refugees are still overseas, and it’s a process that historically takes 18 to 24 months. Breitbart News asked the Clinton campaign to reconcile the differences between Secretary Clinton’s 2013 private remarks, where she said Syrian refugees “can’t possibly” be vetted, to her 2015 and 2016 campaign claims that “vigilant” screening and “vetting” of “refugees from Syria, guided by the best judgment of our security and diplomatic professionals,” will be sufficient to safeguard American citizens from “jihadists coming in along with legitimate refugees,” but there has not yet been a response. We also asked the Clinton campaign to explain if Secretary Clinton believes the United States has unique vetting capabilities superior to those of Jordan, which enable us to successfully vet Syrian refugees she admits we cannot. The entire quote from Clinton’s speech to the Jewish United Fund of Metropolitan Chicago’s Vanguard Luncheon on October 28, 2013, included in the WikiLeaks document dump of Hillary Clinton’s paid speeches reads as follows: So I think you’re right to have gone to the places that you visited because there’s a discussion going on now across the region to try to see where there might be common ground to deal with the threat posed by extremism and particularly with Syria which has everyone quite worried, Jordan because it’s on their border and they have hundreds of thousands of refugees and they can’t possibly vet all those refugees so they don’t know if, you know, jihadists are coming in along with legitimate refugees. Turkey for the same reason. In September 2015, Hillary Clinton called for the United States to accept 65, 000 Syrian refugees per year. Thousands of Syrian refugees reside in refugee camps in Jordan. A number of Syrian refugees reside in Jordan in locations other than official refugee camps. The majority of the more than 12, 500 Syrian refugees who were resettled in the United States in FY 2016 came from their temporary residences in Jordan. According to a 2013 newsletter from the Jewish United   Federation of Metropolitan Chicago, “Former Secretary of State and Former U. S. Senator from New York, Hillary Rodham Clinton, will be the featured guest speaker for the Vanguard Event on behalf of the 2014 Jewish United Fund Annual Campaign. ” Leslie Bluhm and Michael J. Sacks were listed as “Vanguard  ” for the event. Bradley Jarol, Jodi A. Newmark, and Tom Rivkin were listed as “Vanguard Vice Chairs. ” “Attendance at this event requires a contribution at the Vanguard level to the 2014 Jewish United Fund Annual Campaign,” the newsletter said. This year’s Jewish United Fund of Metropolitan Chicago’s Vanguard Luncheon will be held at the Hyatt Regency Chicago on November 7, the day before the presidential election between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. Former Secretary of State Madeline Albright, who served under President Bill Clinton, and former Secretary of State Colin Powell, who served under President George W. Bush, will be the featured speakers. According to the registration page for the event, “A $5, 000 minimum donation to the 2017 JUF Annual Campaign is required to attend. ”