LONDON  —   Britain’s political crisis intensified on Sunday after its decision to leave the European Union, with the opposition Labour Party splitting into warring camps, Scotland’s leader suggesting that its local Parliament might try to block the departure and many Britons wondering if there was a plausible way for the nation to reconsider its drastic choice. The hostilities in the Labour Party broke out as the battle lines became clearer among the governing Conservatives, left in turmoil by  the vote on the European Union and the subsequent announcement by Prime Minister David Cameron that he would resign once his party chose a successor. Michael Gove, the justice minister and one of the leaders of the Leave campaign, threw his support to the former London mayor Boris Johnson, the most prominent figure in the   movement. Aides to Theresa May, the home secretary, who backed the Remain side in the referendum on Thursday, were calling legislators to seek their support to take on Mr. Johnson. The British news media reported that close allies of Mr. Cameron were also working to stop Mr. Johnson, reflecting the sense of betrayal on Downing Street over Mr. Johnson’s decision to tie his political ambitions to the movement to leave Europe. Other cabinet ministers were considering whether to run, including Nicky Morgan, the education secretary, and Liam Fox, a former defense secretary. Hanging over the jockeying for power was intensifying discussion of whether the British exit, or “Brexit,” might somehow be avoided or circumvented. Mr. Cameron has said he will leave to his successor the decision on whether and when to begin formal divorce proceedings, and neither Mr. Johnson nor Mr. Gove has been demanding such a step, leaving open at least the possibility that Britain could negotiate new terms of membership with Brussels and hold another referendum. Mr. Johnson said from the start of the campaign that a vote to leave would push European Union nations into a new negotiation with Britain to keep it in the bloc. Leaders on the Continent have little appetite at the moment for such a deal, and circumventing the clear will of British voters would appear politically problematic for whoever succeeds Mr. Cameron. But both Britain and the European Union have a tradition of muddling through crises and finding compromises to avoid the worst outcomes. Sunday’s developments underscored how the stunning vote to leave the European Union has upended politics and exacerbated ideological and regional strains in Britain, leaving the nation with no unifying figure, at risk of coming apart and facing jittery financial markets. The turmoil spread on Sunday to the Labour Party, whose leader, Jeremy Corbyn, a leftist, now faces a challenge from members of Parliament who have never favored him. Early Sunday, Mr. Corbyn abruptly fired his shadow foreign secretary  —   the party’s spokesman on foreign affairs  —   to try to head off a coup begun by some Labour members of Parliament disappointed with Mr. Corbyn’s lackluster campaign to keep Britain in Europe. With the Conservatives in disarray and the possibility of another general election within the year, some Labour legislators see this as a good moment to try to dethrone Mr. Corbyn, 67, whom they think would lead the party to electoral disaster. Over the course of Sunday, at least 11 of the Labour shadow cabinet’s 30 members, not counting the foreign secretary, resigned as a signal of their opposition to his leadership. Mr. Corbyn’s office insisted that he would remain party leader and would beat back any challenge by appealing to   Labour Party members who elected him overwhelmingly in the first place. After newspaper reports about the planned coup against Mr. Corbyn, the shadow foreign secretary, Hilary Benn, telephoned him early Sunday to say he and other key legislators had lost confidence in Mr. Corbyn to lead the party to victory. Mr. Corbyn ended the call by firing him, Mr. Benn told The Press Association, a British news agency. “Following the result of the E. U. referendum, we need strong and effective leadership of the Labour Party that is capable of winning public support,” Mr. Benn said. “In a phone call to Jeremy, I told him I had lost confidence in his ability to lead the party, and he dismissed me. ” Mr. Corbyn faces a vote of confidence called for on Friday, after the referendum, by two   Labour legislators. “If a general election is called later this year, which is a very real prospect, we believe that under Jeremy’s leadership we could be looking at political oblivion,” Margaret Hodge, who proposed the   motion, wrote in a letter to fellow Labour legislators. Mr. Corbyn and his allies were reported to be organizing demonstrations in his support. On Sunday morning, his office issued a terse statement: “There will be no resignation of a democratically elected leader with a strong mandate from the membership. ” Adding to the confusion about how Britain would proceed, Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, said on Sunday that the Scottish Parliament might move to try to block the British exit from the European Union by withholding legislative consent. “You’re not going to vote for something that is not in Scotland’s interests,” she said in one of numerous television interviews. It was not clear that the devolved Scottish Parliament had the power to veto a British exit, with constitutional scholars in this country, which famously lacks a formal constitution, differing on the question. “I find it hard to believe that there wouldn’t be that requirement,” Ms. Sturgeon said of the need for Scotland’s approval. “I suspect that the U. K. government will take a very different view on that, and we’ll have to see where that discussion ends up. ” Since the Scotland Act of 1998 binds the Scottish Parliament to act in accordance with European Union law, some argue that the Parliament’s consent would be required to leave. The same might hold true for the devolved Parliaments of Wales, which supported Brexit, and Northern Ireland, which did not. Further, said Christine Bell, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Edinburgh, a law that took effect in March stipulates that the British Parliament “will not normally legislate with regard to devolved matters without the consent of the Scottish Parliament. ” That law was promised by Mr. Cameron to persuade Scots not to vote for independence in 2014. A plausible argument could be made that withdrawing from the European Union over the objections of the Scottish Parliament would violate that law, Professor Bell said. A fierce proponent of remaining within the European Union, Ms. Sturgeon said Scotland would insist on another independence referendum if Britain pulled out, and would try to negotiate with the Europeans to maintain Scottish membership in the bloc. She is “not going to be part of negotiations that accept the inevitability of Scotland exiting the E. U.,” she said. Ms. Sturgeon’s remarks only fueled discussion of whether Britain might choose to seek a way to sidestep the results of the referendum. The formal process of unwinding Britain’s membership in the European Union begins only when the British government invokes Article 50 of the treaty governing the bloc’s operations. Yet Mr. Cameron has declined to do so, and Mr. Johnson and other leaders of the Leave campaign have avoided being pinned down on the issue. Andrew Moravcsik, a professor of politics at Princeton University, wrote in April that Brexit was “Kabuki” theater, arguing that “under no circumstances will Britain leave Europe, regardless of the result of the referendum. ” In the end, he suggested, Britain would do what other European Union members have done after negative referendums: “It would negotiate a new agreement, nearly identical to the old one, disguise it in opaque language and ratify it,” with the agreement of a public that knows little about the European Union. But the European Union may be in no mood to dicker while the European structure burns from other problems like Greece, migration, low growth and an aggressive Russia. Some suggest that a newly elected British Parliament might block exit, if a new referendum were a stated commitment of the victorious party, or that somehow the Europeans will just bend to the British will and grant the nation privileges no other country has to block immigration of other European Union citizens. But for the moment, with Mr. Cameron on his way out and Mr. Corbyn possibly joining him, thoughts of how to avoid Brexit seemed a parlor game next to the political battles the vote has unleashed.