Star Wars actor Mark Hamill says his new Web series about pop culture has come along just in the nick of time  —   because it’s diverted his attention from Donald Trump’s Cabinet appointments. [In an interview with the Daily Beast published Sunday, the actor behind Luke Skywalker in the iconic film series said he is still “in total denial” about the results of this year’s presidential election.  “I’m glad I have [the show Pop Culture Quest] to take my mind off what’s going on,” Hamill told the outlet of his new Web series about comics and memorabilia collectors. “Because if you look at what’s being assembled for our government it’s like, yikes. It’s a who’  of really despicable people. ” Hamill didn’t mention any of the  ’s appointments by name, but Trump has filled several Cabinet and administrative positions since his victory over Hillary Clinton earlier this month. On Friday, Trump selected Donald McGahn as White House general counsel and KT McFarland as deputy national security adviser. The   previously selected Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn as national security adviser, Reince Priebus as chief of staff, Steve Bannon as chief strategist, Betsy DeVos as Secretary of Education, South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley as U. S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions for Attorney General and Rep. Mike Pompeo as director of the Central Intelligence Agency. The Star Wars star is certainly not a fan of 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, whom Trump is reportedly considering for Secretary of State. In 2012, Hamill repeatedly criticized the former Massachusetts governor, calling him a “snake oil salesman” and “not actually human. ” I’ve never seen a candidate for President lie more than Romney. He lies effortlessly, shamelessly. This snake oil salesman must be defeated! !!  —   Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) October 4, 2012,  Hamill told the Daily Beast that it is “tempting” to leave the country in the wake of Trump’s victory, as numerous other celebrities have threatened to do. “But in other ways, it’s a challenge to stay and defend your country and do what you think is right and not retreat and hide under the covers,” he added. “It’s not gonna be easy, that’s for sure. ” Hamill’s new show, Pop Culture Quest, follows the actor as he examines some of the largest and most celebrated memorabilia collections in existence, including those of DC Comics artist Jim Lee and collector Scott Zillner. “I had to keep it kind of a secret because my family would have thought I was insane,” Hamill told the Daily Beast of his early foray into genre films and comic books. “And look at where I am today! Awash in video games, cartoons, and space movies. And loving every minute of it. ” Hamill is set to reprise his role as Luke Skywalker in next year’s    Star Wars Episode VIII.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum