An “investigative journalist” on Iran’s   PressTV Monday claimed to have discovered why the Obama Administration is both offering sanctions relief to the Ayatollah’s Islamic Republic while also imposing a new round of sanctions on Tehran: “Jewish neocons,” according to Tehran’s   media outfit. [On Sunday, the U. S. settled a dispute with Iran, writing a $1. 7 billion dollar check to the Islamic Republic of Iran, Secretary of State John Kerry announced. That same day, however, the Treasury Department announced the impositions of new sanctions against Iranian individuals and groups, citing Tehran’s illegal ballistic missile tests.  Wayne Madsen, an   commentator, added to the   network’s analysis that he had identified the rogue American official in the administration is responsible for usurping President Obama’s authority and pushing newly implemented Treasury Department sanctions, which went into effect on Sunday against Iran’s ballistic missile program. “Secretary of State Kerry was championing the [Iran nuclear deal]  …     and then we had a swap of prisoners between Iran and the United States, said Madsen. “We have the Treasury Department, and the person of Adam Szubin, who is a Zionist Neocon  …     He is the acting Undersecretary of the Treasury  …     He’s the one who imposed these sanctions against Iran. ” “The Neocons will always find ways to upset the apple cart,” he added. “They’ve done it through Adam Szubin. And by the way, that position, of undersecretary for financial intelligence has always been in the hands of some Zionist Neocon  …     They’ve always had that job. ” The Jews “seem to own certain positions in the cabinet,” he commented. “And they’ll use their positions to try to sabotage initiatives that are not in Israel’s favor. That’s what we’ve seen here is Szubin’s actions in the Treasury Department. ” The U. S. Treasury Department enacted a new round of sanctions Sunday against Iranian individuals and companies that support Iran’s ballistic missile program. “Iran’s ballistic missile program poses a significant threat to regional and global security, and it will continue to be subject to international sanctions,” read a statement from  Adam J. Szubin, the acting Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence. “We have consistently made clear that the United States will vigorously press sanctions against Iranian activities outside of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action  —   including those related to Iran’s support for terrorism, regional destabilization, human rights abuses, and ballistic missile program. ” The Treasury Department sanctions were enacted the same day the U. S. decided to pay Iran a $400 million dollar debt plus $1. 3 billion dollars in interest. President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry have backed the debt payment, claiming it was “much less” than what Iran had sought out.