The Middle East Forum’s “Islamist Money in Politics” project compiles an annual list of politicians who receive campaign contributions from Islamist groups and “individuals who subscribe to the same Islamic supremacism as Khomeini, Bin Laden, and ISIS. ”[The   recipient in the   list is Hillary Clinton, who raked in $41, 165 from prominent Islamists, says the report:  This includes $19, 249 from senior officials of the Council on   Relations (CAIR) declared a terrorist organization by the United Arab Emirates on November 15, 2014. For example, Mrs. Clinton has accepted $3, 900 from former CAIR   Ahmad   who has defended numerous Islamists in Ohio indicted  —   and later convicted  —   on terrorism charges. The top ten list includes nine Democrats, one independent (who just happens to have been Clinton’s chief rival for the Democratic nomination, Bernie Sanders) and zero Republicans. Donald Trump received no Islamist money, and neither did Libertarian Gary Johnson. Jill Stein of the Green Party accepted $250 in such donations. “While the amounts of Islamist donations are relatively small, the information: (1) holds politicians accountable for accepting funds from soiled sources (2) signals the Islamist lobby’s affections and intentions and (3) tells voters who takes money from individuals linked to enemies of the United States and its allies,” the Middle East Forum argues. CAIR has been declared a terrorist organization by the United Arab Emirates and was named by federal prosecutors as an unindicted   in a   operation.  CAIR is closely entwined with Islamists and with jihadis that court documents and news reports show that at least five of its people  —   either board members, employees or former employees  —   have been jailed or repatriated for various financial and   offenses. Breitbart has also published evidence highlighted by critics showing that CAIR was named an unindicted   in a   criminal effort to deliver $12 million to the   HAMAS jihad group, that CAIR was founded with $490, 000 from HAMAS, and that the FBI bans   meetings with CAIR officials. “The FBI policy restricting a formal relationship with CAIR remains   …     [but] does not preclude communication regarding investigative activity or allegations of civil rights violations,” said an Oct. 2015 email from FBI spokesman Christopher Allen. In 2009, a federal judge concluded that “the government has produced ample evidence to establish the associations of CAIR  …     with Hamas. ” Awad has a long history of   statements, according to critics. CAIR has posted its defense online.