In a fiery rally speech for Ted Cruz on Sunday night, Glenn Beck expressed his belief that God has sent us Cruz as “a man who was raised for these times,” and that God has deliberately prolonged the GOP primary season so that every state in the union will be forced to choose between “good or evil. ”[Beck opened his speech by affirming the importance of the Indiana primary, which many political observers regard as a    moment for Cruz.  “This is going to be a place of miracles,” Beck said. “This is the place that’s going to change the course of American history, and it’s all going to come down to you.  The question is, are you ready?” He then stressed what he regards as the divine importance of this moment in American history. “Make no mistake, we are being watched,” Beck stated. “We’re being watched by the whole world, but we’re being watched by our Maker. And as Thomas Paine said, ‘Heaven knows how to attach a proper price to something as so sacred and celestial as freedom. ’” He was apparently paraphrasing “The Crisis,” where Paine writes: “Heaven knows how to set a proper price upon its goods and it would be strange indeed, if so celestial an article as Freedom should not be highly rated. ” Beck continued, “It’s not going to be a small price we pay. But He is asking each one of us. Tell me another time in our nation’s history that you have witnessed where Indiana matters? Where your vote counts? Usually by the time it gets to Texas we’re like, ‘Whatever. ’” “Every single state is being required and I believe  —   and they’re going to rake me over the coals for saying it so be it  —   I believe that’s the Almighty God saying, ‘Each one of you, I want you to stand and you choose: good or evil? Which way will we go? Am I still your God and are you still my people? Choose who you serve,’” Beck declared to loud applause. “Before I walked out on stage, Ted and I got down on our knees and we prayed. And we didn’t pray for us, we prayed for the nation and for you. He is a servant at heart. He is a man who was raised for these times. People don’t believe that stuff any more, but I do. If God raised George Washington and Ben Franklin and Thomas Jefferson and Thomas Paine, if He put that collection together, He is the Almighty I think He can send us one guy!” “But even more importantly, He didn’t just send us one guy. He sent you, and you, and you, and you, and you,” Beck concluded. “We’ve all been born for this time to do the right thing and stand and make a logical decision. I ask Tuesday, you go out and get everybody you know. You be on the record as going out and doing absolutely everything you can. This will decide the course of the nation. ” Beck’s speech was filled with overt religious imagery, particularly in regards to George Washington, who he idolizes with a reverence usually reserved for saints. Beck has declared Cruz “the next George Washington. ” At Sunday’s rally, the radio talker said, “George Washington made a covenant with the Almighty on the day of his inauguration for four hours in the church that now sits right across the street from the World Trade Center. And four hours in prayer after his inauguration he made a covenant: We will be your people and you shall be our God. And I truly believe those things. ” “This country took a five thousand year leap,” Beck explained. “Man was warming himself around a fire. For thousands of years we had no light, we had no electricity, we had no heat in our homes. People starved. There was no medicine as we know it now. And something magical happened. In 1791, the Constitution was given birth. The Constitution! Man’s rights that came from God were enshrined in a document, and the government was established for the sole purpose of protecting those rights. And because of that  —   because now you lived in a place where somebody could have an idea  —   you could have an idea or I could have an idea. I could be poor, but I could put sweat equity into it. And I would work day and night, and I would pursue my happiness. And no one could take that away from me. ” Beck’s thesis comes from a controversial book originally published in 1981 titled The Five Thousand Year Leap by the late Mormon author W. Cleon Skousen. The book, which generally has been discredited as   was largely forgotten until Beck   it to America after penning a new introduction to its  . Beck, a Mormon convert who seems to view history through the prism of his own unique religious interpretations, has declared Skousen’s book “essential reading. ” The radio talker seems to base a number of his unusual historical declarations on the book, including his statement in his last CPAC speech that the Industrial Revolution “was born” in America, not the United Kingdom, as a result of the U. S. Constitution. In a Facebook post on Sunday night, Beck encouraged Americans to join him in a fast in the   to the Indiana primary. The last time he encouraged a fast was following Cruz’s defeat in South Carolina. It’s been a difficult past week for Beck, following news of another round of mass layoffs at his troubled media empire. On Friday, after giving an impassioned “farewell address” of sorts to his 40   employees from his replica Oval Office, the former radio shock jock joined his   in donning swim goggles and rubbing his face in a bowl of crushed Cheetos to see if they could “look like Donald Trump. ” Watch the full video of Beck’s remarks below:   Follow Rebecca Mansour on Twitter @RAMansour