Friday caps a wildly busy week, especially out of Washington. There was Donald Trump’s news conference. There was the   dossier on Trump and Russia. And then there were the confirmation hearings for the  ’s cabinet nominations. One of the nominees, Jeff Sessions for attorney general, was described in a Times profile leading up to the hearings as having Christian values. “Mr. Sessions,” the profile said, “offers an uncompromising brand of conservatism that combines Christian and   values with strains of populism and a willingness to say the unpopular, or even offensive. ” That description drew fire from several readers. The public editor’s take: I contacted the writers, Sharon LaFraniere and Matt Apuzzo, to ask about their intent. Both wanted to assure readers that they were not trying to use Christian values as a   for any specific policies. They also said they weren’t trying to assert whether he lives a good Christian life, only that he is a devout Methodist who views his religion a guiding factor. Seems reasonable. I do appreciate, however, that the phrase used in this way could be seen as equating Sessions’ views to those of all Christians. It implies a universality to “Christian values” in a way that might offend Christians who don’t share them.  Also in the news this week was that unsubstantiated Trump dossier. We, of course, received a number of emails on the topic, and this office has been looking into it. Here’s one common reader complaint. The public editor’s take: It sounds as if you came upon a rare link here to the BuzzFeed article. I’m told that Times staffers were given clear instructions not to link to it, but it appears one article briefly did so. Given how much of a point The Times made about the dossier being unsubstantiated, it would have been having it both ways to refuse to publish the documents but then link to BuzzFeed.  Another reader pointed out that while The Times emphasized that the claims in the dossier were unsubstantiated, it did not go to such lengths in covering Hillary Clinton’s scandals during the presidential election. This week Trump also decided to give his    Jared Kushner, a place in his government as a senior White House adviser. The Times covered the decision thoroughly, giving readers a better view into the man’s background. But some readers took issue with his religion being noted often, including in a story noting that Trump and his advisers, a group that included Kushner, had met on a Saturday even though Kushner typically observes the Sabbath strictly. The public editor’s take: The Times guidelines say such references to religion should be used when relevant to the news. In this case, Trump often cites Kushner’s relationships with Israel and his Jewish faith as reasons he would be effective in dealing with Middle East issues. As to Kushner meeting on the Sabbath, the senior editor for standards, Greg Brock, notes that The Times offered similar explanations when Senator Joseph I. Lieberman was running for president.  Brock also said, “I can see why a reporter or editor might have included the reference to Kushner’s religion because it is the type of question another reader might very well ask: Why is Kushner attending meetings and not observing the Sabbath? I don’t know that the reference was necessary, but mentioning it seems legitimate. ” The public editor’s take: I agree with Brock. When relevant yes, but that’s not a license to do it without context.  Another reader flagged what he thought was a conflict between the business and news side. Kinsey Wilson, executive vice president for product and technology, gave a good explanation of how this happens that applies to advertising generally: Another reader pointed out that The Times accidentally quoted a spoof account in its story on London transportation strikes  —   and is still using the quote. A rare and refreshing reader note came in last week. The reader wrote in simply to thank Times journalists. We hope you all enjoy the long weekend.