The personal cell phone numbers and email addresses of most Democratic members of Congress were released by hacker Guccifer 2. 0 on Friday, the most salacious in the batch of documents the hacker retrieved from the server of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC). [The DCCC supports the election of House Democrats and is an organization affiliated with the Democratic National Committee (DNC) —  which has faced its own hacking problems that led to the resignation of DNC chairwoman Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz ( ) and the termination of at least three other top DNC staffers.  “It’s time for new revelations now,” the hacker wrote on his WordPress blog while publishing documents including a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet file that contains the personal contacts of most Democrats in Congress. “All of you may have heard about the DCCC hack. As you see I wasn’t wasting my time! It was even easier than in the case of the DNC breach. ” The hacker, Guccifer 2. 0, continued in the note by calling the U. S. presidential election a “farce” and encouraging the public to “make use” of the documents published on the website. The hacker wrote: As you see the U. S. presidential elections are becoming a farce, a big political performance where the voters are far from playing the leading role. Everything is being settled behind the scenes as it was with Bernie Sanders. I wonder what happened to the true democracy, to the equal opportunities, the things we love the United States for. The big money bags are fighting for power today. They are lying constantly and don’t keep their word. The MSM are producing tons of propaganda hiding the real stuff behind it. But I do believe that people have right to know what’s going on inside the election process in fact. To make a long story short, here are some DCCC docs from their server. Make use of them. The contact sheet document includes a breakdown of nearly every Democrat in the U. S. House, their cell phone numbers, and personal email addresses. It also contains personal contact information for the members’ chiefs of staffs, schedulers, press contacts, and more —  including personal email addresses and cell phone numbers for them. No Democrat seems to be spared by this hack even House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and her top allies’ personal contact information was published in the sheet.