Alabama Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions is condemning President Obama’s refusal to state that illegal aliens are not permitted to vote in U. S. elections. [A Latino Youtube host interviewed Obama Friday, asking him: “Many of the millennials, DREAMers, undocumented, um, citizens —  and I call them citizens because they contribute to this country —  are fearful of voting. So if I vote, will immigration know where I live? Will they come for my family and deport us?”  “Not true,” Obama replied, ignoring her point about illegal aliens voting. And the reason is, first of all, when you vote, you are a citizen yourself —  and there is not a situation where the voting rolls somehow are transferred over and people start investigating et cetera. The sanctity of the vote is strictly confidential in terms of who you voted for. If you have a family member who maybe is undocumented, then you have an even greater reason to vote. Obama’s reply was clumsily worded, but he appeared to say that if a U. S. citizen with illegal alien family members who continue to stay in the U. S. in defiance of the law votes, immigration authorities will not use that voters’ information to begin deportation proceedings against their illegal alien relatives.  Given Obama’s strange wording, however, it’s open to interpretation whether or not he is suggesting an illegal alien is considered a “citizen” if he manages to make it into a voting booth. In that case, Obama is plainly hinting voter fraud perpetrated by illegal aliens in the 2016 presidential election will not be investigated.  “I am shocked that the President of the United States —  who is the chief law enforcement officer for the nation and to whom all federal law enforcement officers report —  failed to strongly and immediately object to a statement by an interviewer that unlawful immigrants can and should vote in U. S. elections,” Sessions said in a statement. “The interviewer proposed a radical and illegal action, which the President had a duty to condemn. ” “The President must immediately issue a statement to make crystal clear that only citizens of the United States have the right to vote, and that any noncitizen who votes, and anyone who assists noncitizens to vote, does so illegally and is subject to prosecution,” he continued.  “The failure to clarify this statement will only add further credibility to the public’s concerns about the integrity of this election. ” Sessions is far from the only figure to denounce Obama’s strange and ambiguous nod towards illegal voting: Fox Business host said the president is “advocating an illegal act” and former Arizona Republican Gov. Jan Brewer called his words “absolutely shocking. ” Illegal aliens voting unlawfully in U. S. elections and disenfranchising Americans is a far bigger threat than voting machines miscounting ballots, one legal expert told Breitbart News on Thursday. “I just sued two Virginia counties this week for concealing alien voting records, the list of foreigners who are on the voter rolls,” said J. Christian Adams on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM. “In Virginia alone, our litigation found a thousand aliens in just eight counties. These are the only eight counties that complied with our document requests. And they were voting! So if you take a thousand aliens who were accidentally caught in eight Virginia counties, and there’s 135 Virginia counties, that tells you that the number of aliens on the voter rolls in just this swing state is in the five figures. ” “The same is true in Colorado, Florida, North Carolina, Arizona,” he continued. “More so in Texas, Pennsylvania. These are places where alien voting will make a difference. And it made a difference in California. California became the deepest shade of blue, in part, because of problems with the voter rolls, with illegal alien voting. ” “We have a blind spot,” Adams added. “I don’t think Republicans are aware of this problem to the degree they need to be. Some of them are. Most aren’t. There are very few tools, and the Obama administration has been blocking the use of those tools. ”