Good morning. We’re trying something new this week: California Today, a morning update for our California readers. Tell us what you’d like to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com Across California, public transit agencies are pushing ballot measures in search of money for just about everything related to transit: new rail lines, highway widening and even pothole filling. Santa Clara County will vote in November on a   sales tax to finance transportation projects. Similar measures will be on the ballot in Sacramento County and, very likely, San Diego County. Possibly several other Bay Area counties as well. Los Angeles County decided last week to put a   tax on the ballot for the third time in just eight years. These small sales tax increases have become perhaps the only realistic way to pay for ambitious transportation projects, said Brian D. Taylor, a professor of urban planning at U. C. L. A. “Voters and elected officials have become very hostile to increases in fuel taxes,” he said. In 2008, voters in Los Angeles approved a   sales tax increase for 30 years. That has financed projects like the   rail line connecting downtown to the beach, which just opened. (Never mind that the trip is often still faster by car.) Four years later, voters rejected a plan to extend that Los Angeles County sales tax another 30 years. Now we’re headed to the ballot box again  —   only this time, the sales tax hike would be permanent. • With concerns about climate change growing, Oakland banned the transport and storage of large coal shipments, halting a plan to a use a former Army base to ship coal to China and other overseas markets. • After last week’s Supreme Court ruling, will undocumented immigrants in California, and around the country, go back to avoiding the authorities? Many vow to keep living in the open. • “The tragedy is that more of them didn’t die. ” Remarks by extremist pastors celebrating the massacre in Orlando, Fla. including one in Sacramento, have brought attention to   congregations. • The ad industry is confronting the rise of Facebook. Our media columnist offers a report from Cannes, France. • The drone craze may be heading to the water. OpenROV, a   in Berkeley, is building submarine drone kits. • A new battlefront for tech giants: Amazon is going up against Apple, Google and Microsoft in the education technology market for primary and secondary schools. • Airbnb, which helped craft a rental law in San Francisco, is now suing the city to block the law’s enforcement. • Gov. Jerry Brown signed a $171 billion state budget for the next fiscal year, including $2 billion for a   fund. He invoked the fable of “The Ant and the Grasshopper” to explain why. [Sacramento Bee] • In a community scorched by wildfire, residents believed their homes were left to burn because firefighters were protecting wealthier areas. [Los Angeles Times] • The Oceanside police said a woman suspected of drunken driving struck and killed a pedestrian, then drove for a mile with the victim’s body lodged in the front seat. [NBC San Diego] • How crazy is the San Francisco rental market? One tenant had his rent hiked to $8, 000 from $1, 800. [SFGate] • A former top Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department official was sentenced to five years in prison. Prosecutors said he tried to block a federal investigation into the abuse of inmates at county jails. [Los Angeles Times] • The artificial turf fields at San Diego schools save lots of water. But parents are worried that the fields, made in part of crushed old car tires, are harming their children’s health. [Voice of San Diego] • Now that LeBron James has brought an N. B. A. title to Cleveland, San Diego sports fans have been ranked the most miserable and   in the country. On the bright side, they still get to live in San Diego. [ESPN] You know this bear. It flies on the state flag, and dances on the sideline at U. C. L. A. football games. But how well, exactly, do you want to know this bear? (Especially if you’ve seen the scene of Leonardo DiCaprio attacked by one in “The Revenant. ”) In fact, the last California grizzly bear was killed nearly 100 years ago. Now, the Center for Biological Diversity wants to bring the bears back to the California. Grizzly bears are endangered. In the continental United States, they live only in Yellowstone National Park and a few other remote locations. The bears, the group said, would not be running around downtown San Francisco. They could be safely reintroduced in the remote Sierra Nevada. On its website, the group describes grizzlies as eating mostly nuts, berries, fish and small animals, and only “the occasional person who pokes a camera in their face. ” (Not exactly reassuring.) This past week, a black bear, known as a skittish animal, clawed its way into a tent and scratched a man who was camping about 30 miles from Los Angeles. Grizzlies are far larger and more aggressive than black bears. For now, federal and state officials, convinced that a   grizzly bear would eventually end up in a campground, have not yet shown interest in bringing them back. California Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a. m. Pacific time until late morning. What would you like to see here to start your day? Email us at catoday@nytimes. com, or reach us via Twitter using #CAToday. Follow the California Today columnist, Ian Lovett, on Twitter.