Earlier on Wednesday on Fox News Channel’s “Your World,” former Gov. Mitt Romney ( ) the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, told host Neil Cavuto there was “good reason to believe that there’s a bombshell” in current Republican presidential   Donald Trump’s taxes. Romney speculated the bombshell could involve his net worth or giving to the disabled, including disabled veterans.  However, in August 2012 during the heat of Romney’s presidential race with President Barack Obama,   Majority Leader Harry Reid ( ) charged Romney hadn’t pay taxes for 10 years. Shortly after Reid made those allegations, Trump defended Romney in an interview with Fox News Channel’s Greta Van Susteren on the August, 7, 2012 broadcast of “On the Record. ” “I think it’s a very strong statement that Harry made,” Trump said. “And I’ve known Harry and I like Harry. But I think it’s a statement that he probably wished he didn’t make. I don’t think there was a source. A lot of people don’t think there was a source. If there was a source, it’s probably not allowed and it’s probably not even legal. I mean, who would be able to do that? Who would be allowed to do that? I don’t think there is a source. ” Trump went on to say that Romney should have turned tables and insisted that Obama release his personal records. “So he made a statement,” Trump continued. “It was a very strong statement. I think that, frankly, and you  —   I’ve said it many times and I’ll continue to say it, that what Governor Romney should do, in my opinion  —   and he’s a very different person and he’s got a different attitude, and I understand that  —    —   is say, I will give my tax returns if you open up your records because as you know, President Obama spent over $4 million trying to hide so many different things from his past, whether it’s college applications, college records, passport records. And you know, nobody brings this up. Nobody says, ‘Open up your passport records. Open up your college applications. Open up your college records. Let’s see your life.’ And nobody brings this up. By the way, most presidents have given their college records. All presidents have given, to the best of my knowledge, their passport records. So why is he spending $4 million on trying to keep them secret? So I would say, I will open up my tax returns  —   and his tax returns are perfect. But I would open up my tax returns, but we want to see your records. I think they should place the shoe on the other foot. And I would think that you would probably not hear any more talk, frankly, about the tax returns, which are 100 percent according to Hoyle. ” Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor