During his March 3 speech at CPAC, NRA executive vice president and CEO Wayne LaPierre lamented the death of Second Amendment bulwark Antonin Scalia and warned that Democrat presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton wants to set an   litmus test for Supreme Court justices going forward. [LaPierre praised Scalia as one who “defended the liberty given to each of us at birth by our Creator” and  described Scalia as “a true friend to America’s 100 million gun owners. ”  LaPierre paused, then said, “The thought of President Obama replacing Justice Scalia is harrowing” and the thought of a Democrat president like Hillary Clinton making two or more Supreme Court Justice appointments is too frightening to contemplate. He added, “Hillary Clinton couldn’t pass a polygraph,” but she wants to set the litmus test for choosing Supreme Court Justices moving forward. That litmus test would certainly be   certainly be in opposition to the decisions handed down in District of Columbia v Heller (2008) and McDonald v Chicago (2010). Heller struck down the Washington DC gun ban as an unconstitutional limit on the individual right to keep and bear arms in a federal district. And McDonald struck down Chicago’s gun ban on the grounds that Second Amendment rights are incorporated by the Fourteenth Amendment, therefore protected from state level infringement, just as they are protected from infringement at the federal level. LaPierre said, “Let me clear about one thing, [Hillary Clinton] hates the Second Amendment, she hates us, and she’s coming after every single bit of our freedom. ” A video of Clinton campaigning on promises of more gun control was played, then LaPierre added: Mrs. Clinton, if you want to come after the NRA and if you want to fight over the   rights of America’s 100 million gun owners, if you want to turn this election into a   brawl for the survival of our constitutional freedoms, bring it on. We aren’t going anywhere and we aren’t hard to find. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.