Buddy Ryan, pro football’s famously combative defensive innovator, who helped propel the Jets and the Chicago Bears to Super Bowl championships, died on Tuesday in Shelbyville, Ky. He was 85. His death was confirmed by the Buffalo Bills. His son Rex, the former Jets head coach, is now the Bills’ head coach, and Rex’s twin, Rob, is an assistant with the team. James Solano, Buddy Ryan’s agent, said that Ryan owned a ranch in Shelbyville. He had been treated for cancer in recent years. In his seven years as a head coach, with the Philadelphia Eagles and the Arizona Cardinals, Ryan never won a playoff game. But he had already solidified his legacy as an assistant coach with his shifting and blitzing defensive alignments, which confused and clobbered opposing quarterbacks. His bruising “46” defense, in particular, took the Bears to their Super Bowl victory in 1986. For all his football intellect, Ryan embraced pure aggression. “It got mean, cruel,” defensive end Gerry Philbin, who played under Ryan at the University at Buffalo and on the Jets, once told Sports Illustrated. “I’ve never seen anyone better at bringing the animal out of you. If you didn’t hit as hard as he wanted, he’d humiliate you in front of everyone. “Guys like me loved him, though. He was just so brutally honest. ” When Ryan became the Eagles’ head coach in 1986 and subjected his players to punishing drills in training camp, he spoke of his  . “They probably think I’m a    ” he told The New York Times. “But that’s all right. That breeds closeness as a team. That way they can all dislike the same guy. ” His son Rex, having earned a reputation for brashness in his own right while coaching the Jets from 2009 to 2014, wrote in a memoir, “Play Like You Mean It” (2011) that he grew up “wanting to be Buddy Ryan,” though he acknowledged that his father “was a little over the top from time to time. ” While he was the Bears’ defensive coordinator, Buddy Ryan largely ignored Mike Ditka, his presumed boss as the head coach, concluding that Ditka, once a brilliant tight end, knew nothing about defense. In 1985 they almost came to blows in the locker room during halftime of the Bears’ loss to the Miami Dolphins, the team’s only defeat that season. In 1989, the Cowboys accused Ryan of offering bounties of a few hundred dollars to any of his Eagles players who knocked the Dallas kicker, Luis Zendejas, and quarterback Troy Aikman out of the Thanksgiving Day game, which Philadelphia won,  . Both players were roughed up in the game. Zendejas, who had previously been cut by the Eagles, called Ryan “the fat little guy” and denounced him as essentially a coward. Ryan, a bit paunchy and bespectacled, denied offering bounties, and a league investigation could not substantiate the accusations. When Ryan was the Houston Oilers’ defensive coordinator, he punched the team’s offensive coordinator, Kevin Gilbride, in the face during the final game of the 1993 regular season, against the Jets, incensed that Gilbride’s disdain for ball control kept Ryan’s defenders on the field too long. Ryan broke into professional football as the defensive line coach for the 1968 Jets, who shocked the football world and provided credibility for the American Football League by upsetting the N. F. L. ’s Baltimore Colts in Super Bowl III. Working with Walt Michaels, the Jets’ defensive coordinator, Ryan developed the seeds of his “46” defense. That scheme flourished with the 1985 Bears, who went   in the regular season, won two playoff games by shutouts and routed the New England Patriots,   in the Super Bowl. Named for the   and frequently blitzing safety Doug Plank, who wore No. 46 playing for the Bears in Ryan’s first few seasons as defensive coordinator, the plan put as many as eight men on the defensive line to foil the opponents’ blocking plays, and it sprang blitzes by just about anyone. The aim was to pressure the opposing quarterback or knock him out of the game. Ryan hoped to find out “who the   quarterback was,” he said. N. F. L. teams eventually developed spread offenses to counter the “46,” which featured stars like Mike Singletary, Dan Hampton and Richard Dent, but the alignment survives in various forms. Ron Jaworski, a former N. F. L. quarterback and an ESPN commentator, wrote in his book “The Games That Changed the Game” (2010, with David Plaut and Greg Cosell) that Ryan’s “46” was “the single most influential factor in shaping modern N. F. L. blitz pressure packages. ” James David Ryan was born on Feb. 17, 1931, in Frederick, Okla. where his father was a house painter. (His birth year was often listed as 1934 as Rex Ryan said in his memoir, his father had subtracted a few years from his true age to come off as more youthful when first looking for an N. F. L. job.) Buddy Ryan served in combat as a master sergeant during the Korean War, then played guard at Oklahoma AM (now Oklahoma State) and coached high school football in Texas. He was an assistant coach at the University at Buffalo, Vanderbilt and the University of the Pacific before joining the Jets’ staff under Coach Weeb Ewbank. After eight years with the Jets, Ryan was an assistant to Coach Bud Grant for two seasons with the Minnesota Vikings, overseeing the Purple People Eaters defense that helped take the Vikings to the 1977 Super Bowl, where they lost to the Oakland Raiders. Ryan became the Bears’ defensive coordinator in 1978. When Ditka became head coach in 1982, Ryan stayed on with the backing of the owner, George Halas. It seemed that the Bears had two teams. When they won the 1986 Super Bowl, the offensive players lifted Ditka onto their shoulders while the defensive players hoisted Ryan. Ryan finally got a   job when he was hired by the Eagles soon after. He was fired after the 1990 season, when the Eagles lost their playoff opener for a third consecutive year. He posted a    record with Philadelphia. Ryan was named the Cardinals’ head coach in 1994, and he chose his sons Rex and Rob as assistants. He was   over two seasons, was fired once more, and then retired. Besides Rex and Rob, Ryan’s survivors include another son, Jim, all from his marriage to his first wife, Doris, which ended in divorce, and six grandchildren. His second wife, Joanie, died in 2013. Ryan devoted himself to breeding thoroughbreds in Kentucky after his football years, but he hardly forgot the football days. One of his horses was named FortySixBlitz. Another one kept alive the anger he felt when the Eagles let him go. Its name was FiredForWinning.