Aerial banners bearing the message “Rescue UNborn Children” and a 15’ x 100’ photo of a baby aborted at 15 weeks will be flying over Cleveland, Ohio when the Republican National Convention gathers next week. [The #OperationRNC campaign  —   whose goal is to have the Republican National Convention defund Planned Parenthood in its 2016 platform  —   will fly its banners over downtown Cleveland July 13 to 21 for three hours daily, weather permitting.  Mark Harrington, national director of Created Equal, is leading #OperationRNC. The organization will be present in Cleveland, running a series of rallies and public outreach events in the days leading up to the convention. Republican platform delegates are gathering in Cleveland Monday and Tuesday to finalize the language in the party’s platform. “Created Equal will increase the presence of these horrifying pictures of abortion leading up to the convention, July 18 through 21,” says Harrington. “Our goal is to send a strong signal to the RNC to rescue the unborn  —   beginning with a commitment to defund Planned Parenthood. ” “There’s been a lot of debate about the platform  —   whether there will be any changes,” Harrington tells Breitbart News in an interview. “Not just on the   issue, but homosexual marriage, LGBT issues, and so on. So, until it’s written, we’re obviously concerned. ” “The presumptive nominee has been unclear in some ways on his position regarding abortion, and so, we’re going to keep the pressure on,” Harrington continues. “What we want is a provision and a plank to defund Planned Parenthood and redirect the half a billion dollars that’s given to Planned Parenthood to federally accredited health services or health clinics around the country. ” While Donald Trump has said he has switched from being   to   and that he would defund Planned Parenthood if the organization continues to provide abortions, he has also praised the abortion business for helping “millions and millions” of women. He has also said he would consider changing the RNC platform to include exceptions to abortion for rape and incest. #OperationRNC wants to see the $540 million in taxpayer funding  —   currently given to Planned Parenthood  —   redirected to 13, 000 federally licensed health clinics which provide true comprehensive women’s health care. Rep. Diane Black ( ) a member of the House’s Select Investigative Panel on Infant Lives which has been investigating Planned Parenthood, explained last year, “For every one Planned Parenthood facility, there are 20 federally qualified health centers. Planned Parenthood is trying to put a message out there that if they went away, all these women wouldn’t have care. ” A report on Black’s website notes that FQHCs “provide women with the same preventative services offered by Planned Parenthood, plus the many things they do not offer: mammograms, prenatal care, treatment of diabetes, hypertension, arthritis, depression, etc. ” “In states where the state legislature has defunded Planned Parenthood,   women are still able to access the same preventative services offered by Planned Parenthood in addition to many others through these FQHCs as well as community health centers,” the report continues. “These health care providers far outnumber the number of Planned Parenthood locations, which are primarily located only in urban areas. ” Another   banner will fly over the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia bearing the message “Defend UNborn Children. ” The Democrat Party and its presumptive nominee Hillary Clinton have fully embraced abortion and Planned Parenthood in the party platform, vowing to eliminate restrictions on taxpayer funding of abortion. Clinton has said unborn babies have no constitutional rights.