Thousands of Kanye West fans flooded the streets of Manhattan early Monday morning after the rapper tweeted about a “sold out” impromptu concert that never actually happened. [Show at 2am SOLD OUT,  —   KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) June 6, 2016,   At around 1 a. m. West posted a tweet announcing a 2 a. m. surprise concert. The   tweet teasing a   performance led to a mob of eager fans rushing Webster Hall, where the rumored perforce was expected to be held. However, there was never a Kanye West show scheduled at Webster Hall. Witnesses say one theater employee attempted to calm the growing crowd by grabbing a bullhorn and telling the misguided attendees: “Go home! Go home!” according to NBC New York. The Webster Hall Twitter account also posted a message in an ultimately unsuccessful attempt to quell the budding unrest. There is no late show at Webster Hall tonight. Please get home safely.  —   Webster Hall (@WebsterHall) June 6, 2016,  By 2 a. m. law enforcement had closed off entire streets as large crowds of fans streamed in, some of them climbing on top of parked cars and swinging from light posts. Bystanders took to social media to post pictures and video of the chaotic scene.  live, waiting for yeezy, riot weather #yeezy #yee #reporting #live #websterhall #kanye #kanyewest, A video posted by Darragh Dandurand (@darraghdandurand) on Jun 5, 2016 at 10:59pm PDT,   Kanye in the flesh yo, A video posted by erika ramirez (@eerika. r) on Jun 5, 2016 at 11:13pm PDT,   Scene outside the surprise Kanye concert circa 2 am, A video posted by Thomas McKenna (@tommckenna13) on Jun 5, 2016 at 10:43pm PDT,  Shockingly, West was seen standing through the sunroof of a moving car surrounded by hundreds, if not thousands, of screaming and cheering fans.  #yeezy #diditforthegram, A video posted by Lindsay Phillips (@ldp001) on Jun 5, 2016 at 11:18pm PDT,   Had to go hard to meet the God himself, A video posted by connor halligan (@connorhalligan) on Jun 5, 2016 at 11:19pm PDT,  “It wasn’t a crazy riot or anything. People was just eager to see Kanye. The energy was high but there wasn’t fighting or anything like that,” Brooklyn resident Nareem Rigaud told NBC New York. “It was an energy. It wasn’t that people were bugging out, but it wasn’t that people were calm. People just saw their idol, so it was almost like excitement,” added Dante Moreno, from New Rochelle.