An Australian TV station has released a shocking report showing its crew being attacked by masked men in a Stockholm suburb know as ‘Little Mogadishu’ due to it’s primarily Somali population. [Since the report was filmed last month, Swedish police have dropped all charges, despite the migrants throwing missile and punches, fly kicking the journalist, and even running one over with a car.  The Channel Nine crew and   Australian news correspondent, Liz Hayes, had traveled to the Swedish capital to investigate how the migrant “overload” has affected Swedish society. Upon entering a migrant area, Rinkeby, they were quick to discover some of those effects, and why it is that they have become known as “  zones”.  “They were confronted by a group who objected to them filming. There was a series of scuffles and the police were called. “The 60 Minutes cameraman and producer were slightly injured but filming continued with police at the scene. The crew have now returned to their hotel and are all fine,” a spokesman for the channel told the Local. A spokesman for Stockholm’s police force, Lars Byström, confirmed that the crew had filed a report, but only about a specific incident. “We were told there was a film team and there were some youngsters who were in the car and there was some kind of argument between the team and then the driver drove over the cameraman’s foot. ” However, he later said that police had decided to close the case as “very experienced police officers” had made the decision to focus their resources elsewhere.  Several newspapers, such as the Sydney Morning Herald, have attempted to discredit the Channel Nine report by pointing out that the crew was shown around by a man who writes for a website with links to the Sweden Democrats. However, the   migration   party is a mainstream political force in Sweden, which has been commanding record levels of support among the electorate. They were guided to the   zone by one Jan Sjunnesson who writes for Avpixlat, a news outlet that has accused other Nordic media of suppressing the debate on immigration. “We categorically deny any suggestion we were in cahoots with this organization [Avpixlat] we merely interviewed them in an effort to get all sides of the story,” a spokesman for Channel Nine news told the Sydney Morning Herald. 