TEL AVIV  —   The boycott, divestment, and sanctions (BDS) movement targeting Israel is nothing more than old fashioned   disguised as political activism, Michael Lucas, a gay pornographic film actor and director, declared in a radio interview on Sunday. [Lucas is founder and CEO of Lucas Entertainment, New York’s largest gay adult film company and one of the biggest gay porn production companies in the world.  The BDS movement is “all about political correctness but basically it’s all about good old Jew hatred,” he said. “It’s all about  . They hate Jews. Now we have a new word: Israel. It’s really considered after the Holocaust to be very inappropriate and low class to say, ‘We hate Jews.’ So they say, ‘You know, we disagree with the Zionist policies. Israel get out from the West Bank. Get out from Palestine.’ Why the hell and how dare the world tell Israel that Jews should leave Palestine, that Jews should leave the West Bank. ” Lucas made the comments on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” the popular Sunday night   program broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and Philadelphia’s NewsTalk 990 AM. Klein doubles as Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. Lucas was speaking after over 200 rowdy BDS protesters stormed the gay rights Creating Change Conference at the Chicago Hilton on Friday and used intimidation tactics to cancel an event hosted by A Wider Bridge, an organization that advocates the relationship between the “LGBTQ communities of North America and Israel. ” The National LGBTQ Task Force, which organized the conference, had weeks earlier cancelled the Wider Bridge reception but reinstated it last week after pressure from major Jewish organizations, including the   League. Listen to Part 1 of Klein’s interview with Lucus below: Lucas told Klein he suggested that A Wider Bridge sue the National LGBTQ Task Force and even offered to pay for the case. He said the organization told him they did not want to take the legal route. “I believe that apologies are never enough,” he said of the Taskforce’s actions. “You have to set a precedent where other organizations, whether gay or straight, have to know that you cannot just scare the Jews. You will have consequences. ” Klein pointed out Israel is the only country in the Middle East where gays have full democratic rights and can live freely and openly. He asked Lucas to explain why some gay rights groups ignore the rampant institutionalized persecution of LGBT in surrounding nations while singling out Israel, which actually serves as a sanctuary for Palestinian and Arab LGBT. Lucas replied: It’s not like gays are better than anyone else. Gays are as   as straight people. And also gay people are on the left and the left is confused. The left believes that the Palestinians are the underdogs. The world is all upside down. Everything is up on its head. It’s this huge confusion. People don’t like Israel because no one wants to see Jews able to defend themselves. They want to see Jews being defenseless and at the mercy of a hosting country  …     We Jews gave the world more and Israel gave the world much more than any nation  . So I believe that we are great. But even if it were the case that Jews were not the best they are bad. Fine. Israel was not the best it’s bad. Fine. But disproportionally to Saudi Arabia? To Iran? Listen to Part 2 of Klein’s interview with Lucus below: Israel is “losing the fight in the U. S.,” Lucas warned.  “Those   groups are successfully convincing Democrats and liberals that Palestinians are the underdogs. And people usually don’t think for themselves. ” Lucas has been a staunch supporter of the Jewish state, writing opinion pieces targeting Israel’s critics in such publications as The Advocate, Huffington Post and Pink News.  He also released a gay porn film titled “Men of Israel,” which was reportedly the first such film shot on location in Israel and using an all Israeli and all Jewish cast.  Lucas called the film “a bold move to promote Israeli culture and tourism. ” Writing in Out Magazine last week, Lucas slammed the   protesters at Friday’s LGBTQ event in Chicago as “thugs” who were “not interested in dialogue. They comprised an enraged gang filled with   bent on intimidating and silencing LGBT Jews who have any connection to the state of Israel. ” His Israel advocacy has not been without consequence, however. Lucas says   protesters follow him to speeches at universities and stalk him at public events in the porn industry. “In the gay world I have made lots of people hate me,” he told Klein. “There were a lot of calls from the gay community overall to boycott my films. That was funny. Good luck. ” Lucas slammed his critics as uneducated, explaining they are misusing the word “racism. ” He stated: People accuse you of racism because you speak for Israel.  That’s not actually racism. Palestinians and Muslims are not a race. Such a terrible use of the English language. Speaking for Israel does not make you more popular. It gives you accusations of racism. Of Islamophobia  —   whatever that means. And you become politically incorrect. It’s all about political correctness but basically it’ all about good old Jew hatred. It’s all about  . The Algemeiner   news website documented the scene at Friday’s LGBTQ event: Reportedly chanting “no justice, no peace,” protesters displayed signs equating the Jewish state with apartheid and Zionism with racism, targeting a reception featuring Israeli LGBT rights activists Sarah   and Tom Canning of the Jerusalem Open House for Pride and Tolerance, an Israeli LGBT advocacy group. “There were about 200 protesters outside the room. They blockaded the room, three of them entered the room, took over the stage, and the people from Jerusalem Open House were not allowed to speak,” explained Adrian Shanker, Executive Director of the Allentown,     LGBT Community Center. “They [  and Canning] were escorted out of the room so they would be safe, and we were all asked to leave through the service entrance for our safety. ” A group of 90 gay rights activists last week issued a letter calling the conference shutdown incident “dangerous, deeply disturbing, and given the use of epithets like ‘kike,’ clearly  . ” The activists urged the National LGBTQ Task Force to have an “outside, independent party” review the events at the conference to determine how it occurred and make recommendations to “ensure that it will not happen again. ” The incident was caught on video. Watch it below: OO. ready( function()  ) })