Ellen Pao, the former Reddit CEO who mounted a failed “discrimination” lawsuit against venture capitalist firm Kleiner Perkins, and was forced to resign from Reddit after she failed to turn it into a feminist safe space, is now writing a book on Silicon Valley’s “toxic culture. ”[After a string of   failures in the world of tech, Pao now plans to blame it all on Silicon Valley’s alleged sexism and racism in a memoir entitled “RESET. ”  That’s not an exaggeration, by the way. Here’s her publisher’s press release: Ellen Pao’s RESET, a fearless   account exposing the toxic culture that pervades the tech industry and defined her experiences both as a Kleiner Perkins venture capitalist and Reddit CEO in telling her story as one of the few visible, prominent women of color who have reached the   in corporate America and have dared to speak out about her experience, Pao, now the founder of Project Include, aims to spark a movement to empower other women and minorities. Unlike other former tech CEOs and venture capitalists, Pao is on course to be remembered primarily for complaining about discrimination and lack of diversity  —   something that always attracts sympathy, if not successful lawsuits, in the   environment of Silicon Valley. Pao is best known for her failed discrimination lawsuit against her former employer, Kleiner Perkins. Pao sought $144 million from the firm for alleged discrimination, but her case backfired as her embarrassing work history was dragged into the courtroom. In the course of the trial, it emerged that she kept a “resentment chart” to keep track of colleagues who slighted her, bullied one   to tears, and reprimanded a female subordinate who took time off work to help her landlord  —   who had been in a car crash. Pao also served briefly as CEO of Reddit, where she helped trigger the worst period of user discontent in the site’s history, and one of the largest and most   user uprisings in the history of the web, known as the “Reddit Revolts. ” Pao’s attempts to make Reddit “safer” by banning allegedly offensive communities did not gel with the site’s userbase, known for their libertarian attitudes to free speech. After such dismal failures, it seems the only thing left for Pao to do is blame the white male patriarchy. You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to abokhari@breitbart. com