Media bias is well established. People are used to the mainstream media shilling for   causes and covering up the reality of jihad terror. But on Sunday, “reporter” George Mattar of The Intelligencer interviewed Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) in a piece that is far worse than mere yellow journalism. It’s a blood libel: Potok actually claimed that I am responsible for the San Bernardino jihad massacre, in which two devout Muslims murdered fourteen Muslims for the Islamic State. [Mattar asserted that “the number of hate groups in the United States is on the rise, according to a study by the Southern Poverty Law Center,” and noted that “the SPLC includes as hate groups   racist skinhead,   and   groups and the Ku Klux Klan. ” He added that “  organizations have been growing more than any other type of extremist group  —   from 24 in 2014 to 34 in 2015, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center report. ”  After these highly dubious claims came the smear: “Domestic terrorism like the attack in San Bernardino last year during which 14 people were killed by two Muslim extremists are the propaganda work of   ideologues like Pamela Geller, the most visible and flamboyant person in the   movement, and the injection of hatred against Muslims, Potok said. ” Mattar reported this outrageous libel without so much as query or comment. He made no attempt to contact me for rebuttal. In a rational world, Mattar would at very least have challenged Potok’s   rhetoric. But the world is not rational, and this is war in the information  . “The further a society drifts from truth, the more it will hate those who speak it. ” So said George Orwell. And we are a society largely adrift. Facts, evidence, reality are tossed off like some out of date, old fashioned idea. Truth is “hate. ” Truth is islamofauxbic. Anyone who criticizes oppression, subjugation, supremacism is smeared, defamed, blacklisted. Posturing as humanitarians, vicious hate groups such as the SPLC are deemed legitimate authorities by cultural and political power players.  In reality, the SPLC is not a group dedicated to the defense of human rights. It is a   attack machine. Vets, patriots, and freedom’s defenders are in its crosshairs. Even Presidential hopeful Ben Carson was on their hate list for some time. The San Bernardino jihadis were devout Muslims who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State. They went on a killing spree in the cause of Allah. They never mentioned me or showed any indication that they even knew I exist. They never said anything about striking out against “Islamophobia,” which is a manipulative propaganda term designed to make people afraid to resist jihad terror. They were explicitly and avowedly acting out of loyalty to the Islamic State (ISIS) and carrying out its call to murder American civilians. And ISIS did not issue that call as a reaction to “Islamophobia. ” They issued it because the Qur’an orders Muslims to wage war against unbelievers and subjugate them under the rule of Islamic law. They want to destroy the United States, not because of “Islamophobia,” but in accord with that Islamic imperative. The Southern Poverty Law Center says the   murder of 14 innocent revelers at a Christmas party is my doing because I oppose the very ideology behind the unspeakable slaughter. The focus of my work for the past decade is to educate and increase awareness of the jihad threat and Islamic supremacism. And I was right. Look around: devout Muslims are waging holy war across the world. Why isn’t that the focus of this libelous article? Instead, media lapdogs continue to murder the good names of those who dare to speak candidly about jihad and sharia. Why didn’t Mattar ask Potok about fans of the SPLC who have committed a number of acts of terrorism? Several years ago, Floyd Corkins stormed the Family Research Council’s Washington, D. C. headquarters and began shooting. Why? Because the FRC had been listed as a hate group by the SPLC. The SPLC may be the leftist media’s arbiter of what constitutes “hate,” but with their reckless libels and demonization of defenders of freedom, they are a harbinger of what’s to come: if we don’t break the chokehold the left now has on media, culture and academia, we are ensuring for our children an America bereft of the freedom of speech and other freedoms that the SPLC is determined to destroy.