LONDON  —   In a day of intrigue and betrayal, predictions about the next prime minister of Britain were overturned on Thursday as the presumed favorite, Boris Johnson, said he would not run after his ally in the Brexit campaign, Michael Gove, suddenly announced his candidacy. Mr. Gove had once ruled himself out for the job. His   Thursday wrecked Mr. Johnson’s prospects and enhanced those of Theresa May, the home secretary, who had backed the Remain campaign but with little enthusiasm. With Mr. Johnson out, the prospect of a race between Ms. May, 59, and Mr. Gove, 48, the justice secretary, also indicated that the next prime minister would not seek to keep Britain in the   single market of the European Union if the price was no restriction on immigration from the bloc. The sense that Mr. Johnson, the former London mayor, might try to reach a softer deal with Brussels, and his unwillingness to promise key jobs to Mr. Gove and other leaders of the campaign to exit the European Union, helped doom his candidacy, legislators said. Mr. Gove said Thursday that he had “come, reluctantly, to the conclusion that Boris cannot provide the leadership or build the team for the task ahead. ” Ms. May supported staying in the European Union but was a relatively quiet voice in that debate and made no enemies. She is considered a candidate of continuity who is farther to the right than Prime Minister David Cameron, who announced his resignation the day after the vote for to leave the bloc. On Thursday, Ms. May ruled out a second referendum or any effort to rejoin the European Union, emphasizing that there must be better control of immigration. “Brexit means Brexit,” she said. “The campaign was fought, the vote was held, turnout was high and the public gave their verdict,” she said. “There must be no attempts to remain inside the E. U. no attempts to rejoin it through the back door and no second referendum. ” She said that negotiations with Brussels would take years and that they would not start before the end of the year, despite impatience among European leaders. It is notable that the chairman of her campaign is a “Brexit” supporter, Chris Grayling, the leader of the House of Commons. While the bookmakers made Ms. May the new favorite to succeed Mr. Cameron, she is vulnerable to charges that in her years as home secretary, she failed to reduce net immigration to Britain. Also seeking the office are Stephen Crabb, a young Welsh lawmaker who is the work and pensions secretary Andrea Leadsom, the energy minister and Liam Fox, a former defense secretary. The turmoil in the Conservative Party is following a script, with friends betrayed and secret deals, that seems derived from “Game of Thrones,” itself drawn from centuries of English history. Mr. Johnson, in his own speech, included a reference to Brutus in “Julius Caesar,” and spoke of “a tide in the affairs of men, which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune. ” It was not a time to “fight against the tide of history, but to take that tide at the flood and sail on to fortune,” Mr. Johnson said. Mr. Johnson himself played Brutus to Prime Minister Cameron’s Caesar. But he got to be Caesar for only a very short time before Mr. Gove took on the role of Brutus. Mr. Johnson, a betrayer betrayed, seemed more rueful than angry. And he was silent about which candidate he might now support. Mr. Gove, who was a close friend of Mr. Cameron before backing the British exit, appears to have been encouraged to run by Cameron aides who vowed privately to try to block the ascension of Mr. Johnson, regarded as more interested in the game of politics than in the substance. It has been evident in the days since the referendum that Mr. Johnson and Mr. Gove had had no   plan for what to do if they won, and that they have disagreements about how to approach the future. Even Thursday morning, Mr. Gove was vague about his aims should he become prime minister. He said his “plan for the United Kingdom, which I hope can provide unity and change” would be unveiled “in the coming days. ” Ms. May, the daughter of a vicar, portrayed herself as a candidate for ordinary voters. “If you’re from an ordinary   family, life is just much harder than many people in politics realize,” she said. “You have a job, but you often don’t have job security. ” “Frankly, not everybody in Westminster understands that,” she said, referring to Parliament and the government. If selected by the Conservatives, she would be the second woman to become Britain’s prime minister, after Margaret Thatcher. The five candidates will be winnowed down to two by successive votes by Conservative Party members of Parliament, beginning on July 5. One of those two will then be chosen as the next leader by the 150, 000 or so registered members of the party, with an outcome to be announced on Sept. 9. The opposition Labour Party, too, is in the midst of a leadership struggle. The incumbent, Jeremy Corbyn, overwhelmingly lost a   vote among Labour’s members of Parliament, but he has said he will not resign. He faces an expected challenge by Angela Eagle, the former Labour spokeswoman for business. If both Ms. May and Ms. Eagle emerge victorious, women would lead Britain and Scotland. Women would head both main British political parties as well as all three in Scotland and one in Wales. There were auguries on Wednesday when an email to Mr. Gove from his wife, Sarah Vine, a journalist, was leaked. In it, she urged her husband to approach a commitment to Mr. Johnson with skepticism, and to lock down any commitments beforehand, especially on controls over immigration. She encouraged Mr. Gove to have “leverage” in his dealings with Mr. Johnson, claiming that without Mr. Gove’s support, the Conservative Party membership will not have “the necessary reassurance to back Boris” in the leadership vote. In another Shakespearean reference, Ms. Vine has been lampooned on social media as a pushy, plotting Lady Macbeth. Less than two weeks ago, just days before the June 23 referendum, Mr. Gove was adamant that he did not have the desire or the talent to become prime minister. Praising Mr. Cameron “as an exceptional person with exceptional talents,” Mr. Gove told The Daily Telegraph, “I don’t think I have got that exceptional level of ability required for the job. ” Four years ago, Mr. Gove told the BBC, “I could not be prime minister, I’m not equipped to be prime minister, I don’t want to be prime minister. ” But all that was then. Mark Field, a legislator who was planning to back Mr. Johnson, said, “At least it shows that it’s not just the Labour Party that is capable of being a complete shambles. ”