Peter Schweizer, author of Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich, tells Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM with host Stephen K. Bannon about the uranium deal that helped make the Clintons rich  —   and left Russia controlling a large portion of America’s strategic uranium supply. [Schweizer explained how the wheels for this deal were greased by $145 million in donations to the Clinton Foundation by interested parties, followed “coincidentally” by Hillary Clinton’s State Department approving the uranium sale.  “Basically, it begins in 2005. Bill Clinton goes to a country called Kazakhstan, which is in central Asia, run by a very corrupt, repressive dictator named Nazarbayev,” he said. “And that country has a lot of uranium. Bill Clinton goes there on an airplane with Frank Giustra, a Canadian investor. Frank Giustra has wanted a large uranium concession in that country, and has never been able to get it. ” “Bill Clinton shows up, declares at a press conference that Nazarbayev is a wonderful leader, should actually lead an international human rights organization. And lo and behold, a couple of days later, Nazarbayev gives Frank Giustra this uranium concession,” he continued. “A few weeks after that, Bill Clinton’s Clinton Foundation gets more than $30 million from Frank Giustra. ” This was the prelude to the U. S. uranium deal, in which Giustra was a major player. “Over the next couple of years, this company Frank Giustra has, called Uranium One, starts buying uranium assets across the United States, in places like Colorado, and Utah, and Texas,” Schweizer said. “By 2009, they’ve got about half the future projected production of uranium in this country. And, of course, uranium is what you need for nuclear power, but also for nuclear weapons. ” “And so, in 2009, with Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State, the Russian government says, ‘hey, we’d like to buy Uranium One.’ We want to dominate the world uranium market, so we want to buy this company  —   which, of course, guarantees shareholders a big profit,” Schweizer said, noting that a major obstacle to this ambitious agenda was uranium’s status as a “strategic commodity,” so the sale would require approval by the U. S. government, including the State Department. That’s when Schweizer said things got “really interesting,” because there was “a spontaneous outbreak of philanthropy among eight shareholders in Uranium One. “These Canadian mining magnates decide now would be a great time to donate tens of millions of dollars to the Clinton Foundation,” he recalled.   After $145 million in such donations, Hillary Clinton’s State Department coincidentally approved the Uranium One sale, producing a “   for everybody” except the American people, as Schweizer put it. “The Canadian financiers make huge money, because they’ve sold this company to the Russian government. The Russians are ecstatic, because Vladimir Putin has said openly that he wants to dominate the world’s uranium markets, so they’re all happy and winners. The losers, of course, are the American people, because we’ve got a big chunk of uranium that’s run by the Russian government,” said Schweizer. “And, of course, the biggest winners in all of this are the Clintons, who walk away with $145 million. ” Schweizer noted that after he wrote about the Uranium One saga in Clinton Cash, a team of New York Times reporters  —   including “two Pulitzer   investigative journalists”  —   published a     story confirming the details.   “It made a huge splash, as far as its initial media impact,” he recalled. The media has, however, studiously avoided the story since then, and carefully avoids asking Hillary Clinton questions about it.   Clinton Cash has been made into a documentary film, which will premiere at the Cannes Film Festival. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00AM to 9:00AM EST. LISTEN: 