Former NYPD detective Bo Dietl told Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannn that there is no leadership with President Barack Obama: “You have no leadership. This guy should be back on his plane. Get your butt back here to the United States. Your country. You’ll lose it —  because he divided this country. I’ve never seen race relations so bad. ”[Dietl continued:  I go back to the sixties that’s how it was. And he brought these race relations back so bad when he started up with his mouth with Ferguson before they knew what happened there. He had to open his mouth with the guy in Florida. All these shootings he doesn’t even know what he’s talking about. “This brings back memories,” said Dietl, “And I was a cop. ” He added: In the early seventies, we had the Black Liberation Army that killed one year, 13 cops and another year, 11 cops. This brings me to the frightfulness of those years when they were assassinating cops in New York. People forget we just had two hero New York City cops that were assassinated a     ago because of this Mayor Big Bird here in New York allowing people to shut the streets down. “What do we want? Dead Cops. When Do we want them? Now!” And they assassinated those cops. Dietl also faulted President Obama for his statements on the recent police shootings before any formal investigation was completed. “You can’t have a statement come onboard and make statements like that,” said Dietl. “This has to be investigated, and we have to find out exactly what happened. ” “We’re dealing with the assassination of five police officers” regarding Thursday night’s shootings in Dallas, he went on. “Right now, we’re grieving five hero police officers, who ran right into the line of fire,” continued Dietl. “We have hundreds of thousands of cops across this country. We have tens of millions of incidents between police officers and people. People don’t realize in the last week there were over five shootings with cops also with white Americans, not just African Americans. ” Dietl made the points that when you look at the number of contacts between police and civilians, then look at the percentage of actual incidents like the two currently in the news, the perspective changes. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. 