Hillary Clinton’s campaign chief John Podesta called today’s decision by FBI Director James Comey to   the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s private email server “extraordinary,” in an apparent change of heart since the Clinton campaign praised Comey’s decision to clear her of any wrongdoing back in July. [“It is extraordinary that we would see something like this just 11 days out from a presidential election. The Director owes it to the American people to immediately provide the full details of what he is now examining,” Podesta said in a statement.  However Podesta’s words are a far cry from the Clinton campaign’s previous praise for the FBI and its director James Comey, following the agency’s announcement that it would not be pursuing the case against Clinton. “Throughout his long career in law enforcement, the independence of FBI chief James Comey has rarely been questioned. Comey is a   Republican who served as George W. Bush’s Deputy Attorney General. And when President Obama tapped him to serve as Director of the FBI, he was confirmed by a   vote,” a statement on Hillary Clinton’s official website read at the time, in a post rather ironically entitled “GOP Follows     Donald Trump Into Another   Sham Inquiry. ” The Clinton Campaign then released another statement a week later, claiming that Comey had “shut the door on any remaining conspiracy theories once and for all. ” “The Director’s explanations shut the door on any remaining conspiracy theories once and for all. While Republicans may try to keep this issue alive, this hearing proved those efforts will only backfire,” the statement claimed. Democratic National Committee chair Donna Brazile also tweeted her belief that Republicans skeptical of the FBI’s decision were “damaging the rule of law” in America. Wash. Post Editorial Board: Republicans Are Damaging Rule Of Law By Attacking FBI Director Comey https:  .   —   Donna Brazile (@donnabrazile) July 7, 2016,  You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart. com 