AS prices for new vehicles continue to rise, the cost of an average new car may be a stretch for typical households. A new analysis from Bankrate. com found that a   household could not afford the average price of a new vehicle in any of the 50 largest cities in the country, though cars are more affordable in some cities than others. “The new reality is that cars are becoming more expensive,” said Steve Pounds, a personal finance analyst for Bankrate. “People are having to make tough decisions about financing. ” The average price of a new car or light truck in 2016 is about $34, 000, according to Kelley Blue Book. That’s in part because new cars are loaded with helpful but expensive safety features like   systems. Bankrate calculated an “affordable” purchase price for major cities, using median incomes from United States census data, and factoring in costs for sales taxes and insurance. In San Jose, Calif.  —   the heart of Silicon Valley  —   the median income is about $84, 000, and an “affordable” new car purchase price is about $33, 000  —   close to, but still below, the average new car price. In   cities, however, affordable purchase prices for a typical family are far below the average cost of a new car. In Hartford, Conn. where the median income is about $29, 000, an affordable purchase price is about $8, 000  —   about a quarter of the average   price. That sort of squeeze helps explain why many people are borrowing more, for longer periods of time, to finance a car purchase. Experian Automotive said that in the first quarter of this year, the proportion of new cars bought with the help of financing rose to more than 86 percent, and the average loan amount topped $30, 000, which is the highest since Experian began tracking the data. The average term for a   loan is now 68 months  —   about five and a half years  —   and some loans stretch as long as seven years. (Auto leases are also becoming more popular because they often offer lower payments than a traditional car loan. Leases accounted for more than 30 percent of   transactions in the first quarter, Experian reported. With a lease, the customer makes payments for a set period of time, then typically can choose either to return the car to the dealer or to buy it.)   loans carry risks. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau warns that borrowers who take out   loans end up paying more for the car over all, and also run a greater risk of being “upside down” on the loans, meaning owing more than the car is worth. Bankrate noted that a traditional rule of thumb is the “  ” rule: Car buyers should aim to put down at least 20 percent in cash, take out a loan for no more than four years and keep the cost of principal, interest and insurance to no more than 10 percent of household income. If you have to abandon those guidelines, the car you want may simply be too expensive. “To me, if you need to finance to five, six or seven years, you can’t afford it,” said Jeff Bartlett, deputy cars editor at Consumer Reports. Ron Montoya, senior consumer advice editor with Edmunds. com, noted that interest rates were still low for   loans, but advised shoppers to keep the loan term at no more than five years. (Edmunds has an online calculator that you can use to estimate how much you can afford to pay. He also recommends checking the cost of insuring a specific model before buying it, so you won’t be shocked when you get your insurance bill after you’ve made the purchase. Here are some questions and answers about buying a new car: When is the best time to shop for a new car? While car sales may abound on holiday weekends like the Fourth of July, shopping on a     weekday may actually be preferable. There is less traffic to deal with when taking test drives, and sales representatives have more time to answer your questions. “Buy when it’s right for you,” Mr. Bartlett said, not just because dealers are promoting incentives. Mr. Pounds suggests shopping when car manufacturers are beginning to introduce new model years  —   typically in late summer or early fall. Prices may be more reasonable for the outgoing model year at that time. But be aware that you may have fewer vehicles to choose from. How can I make sure I’m choosing the right financing option? People are often diligent about researching the type of car they want to buy, but they’re much less likely to do their homework when it comes to financing the purchase, according to a report this month from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. To help consumers   the bureau has created an auto loan “shopping sheet” that can help you calculate the total cost of a car loan and compare offers. Should I buy a used car instead? Used cars, particularly those that are just two or three years old, often offer the best value, Mr. Bartlett said. Not only is the initial price lower, but costs like collision insurance and taxes are also lower. If getting the latest safety features, like automatic braking, is a priority, however, make sure to look only at very recent model years. And be sure, he said, to have a used car inspected by a reputable mechanic before you buy it.