BERLIN  —   Austria’s highest court threw out the results of the nation’s presidential election on Friday, giving a   euroskeptic party a second chance to win. The ruling put the European Union’s core issues back in the cross hairs of voters only a week after Britain’s decision to quit. Citing irregularities in ballot counting, the court ordered a   of the presidential runoff, which an   candidate, Norbert Hofer, narrowly lost in May. It was the first time Austria had ordered a rerun of a national election since 1945, when the Nazis were defeated. Now, Mr. Hofer has another chance to become the first   politician elected head of state in Europe since World War II. Much like the British vote last week, the new election in Austria could well serve as a referendum on the central tenets, roles and responsibilities of the European Union. The aftershocks of the British referendum on leaving the   bloc did not stop there. Central and Eastern European nations are demanding that the European Union do a better job of dealing with migration. The prime minister of Slovakia, which assumed the   rotating presidency of the European Union on Friday, warned that the bloc’s leaders needed to pay more attention to national sovereignty. The prime minister, Robert Fico, urged “a balance, an equilibrium, between the member states and the European institutions,” so that “neither should dominate. ” The leaders of the European Union are trying to discourage other states from leaving by making Britain’s exit as painful as possible. Still, the growing pressure from angry electorates across Europe may force them to rapidly address the issues that drove more than 17 million Britons to vote to leave: sovereignty, borders and migrants. The view that power “needs to be rebalanced toward capitals is absolutely on the table in light of the U. K.’s decision to leave the bloc,” said Mujtaba Rahman, the Europe director for the Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy. He added, “There’s a tremendous desire from all over Europe to win back autonomy and sovereignty from Brussels that is motivated by how out of touch the E. U. has become with the everyday fears and concerns of its citizens. ” In the Austrian election, the European Union “could very well become a theme in the coming campaign,” said Hans Rauscher, a columnist for the liberal Austrian newspaper Der Standard. The two candidates’ stances on Europe could not be more different. Mr. Hofer is a    nationalist who has advocated for the rights of disabled people since he was injured in a paragliding accident. His opponent, Alexander Van der Bellen, a    former leader of the Green Party, supports a   “United States of Europe. ” Elected to Parliament in 2006, Mr. Hofer has galvanized voters disillusioned with the two mainstream parties that have governed Austria continually  —   and often in coalition  —   since the 1950s. When polls closed in the May 22 runoff, Mr. Hofer was leading, but a final count that included about 700, 000 postal ballots put Mr. Van der Bellen ahead by roughly 31, 000 votes. The leader of Mr. Hofer’s   Freedom Party,   Strache, filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court about irregularities in 94 of 117 electoral districts. The chairman of the Constitutional Court, Gerhart Holzinger, announced on Friday that “the runoff must be repeated in all of Austria,” and said the decision was guided solely by the court’s mission to protect the rule of law and democracy. The judges described procedural mistakes regarding the timing and monitoring of the counting of some ballots. Along with promising to hold Austria’s government more accountable, Mr. Hofer and his party campaigned heavily on the migrant issue. Most of the more than one million migrants who reached Germany last year did so on land routes that took them through Austria. More than 90, 000 migrants decided to apply for asylum in Austria  —   a similar proportion as in Germany, which has 10 times Austria’s population. Britain’s June 23 referendum  —   in which immigration was a central issue  —   was the first time a country had decided to quit the European Union, and it bolstered euroskeptic parties across the Continent, including in France, the Netherlands, Germany and Italy. After the British vote, Mr. Hofer said he favored holding a similar referendum in Austria if new efforts to centralize power in Brussels were not halted. On Sunday, he told the newspaper Österreich that if the European Union “evolves in the wrong direction, then for me the time would have come to say: So, now we have to ask the Austrians. ” In a 1994 referendum in Austria, 67 percent of voters chose to join the European Union, and recent polls suggest that a clear majority supports continued membership, said Mr. Rauscher, the newspaper columnist. Any new referendum would have to be approved by Parliament, but the Freedom Party could begin a   appeal for a referendum like the one in Britain. “Parliament could ignore that,” Mr. Rauscher wrote in an email, “but that would be a good propaganda tool for the Freedom Party. ” The decision by British voters to leave the European Union was strongly influenced by immigration from other European countries, but Britain, which is not part of the Schengen   zone, has not felt the crush of Middle Eastern and North African refugees in the same way that other European nations have. Slovakia and other smaller countries have objected to the quota plan devised by European leaders. Germany has insisted that all members of the bloc must do their share to solve what is a common problem. But the British vote and the sparks it has ignited among other European electorates are now exerting intense pressure on Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and others who favor cautious and collaborative institutional reforms. That stance is arousing increasing resistance from states, and political parties, that want to chart their own path. On Friday,   Juncker, the president of the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, met with Slovakia’s prime minister, Mr. Fico, who has indicated that the member states  —   as opposed to Brussels officials  —   take a greater role in setting set the strategic direction of the bloc. “National parliaments have to be heard,” the governments of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia, which meet in a bloc known as the Visegrad Group, said in a statement this week. Mr. Fico has criticized the European Union’s leaders for mishandling the migration crisis, for giving France and Germany too much influence, and for doing too much of its business in Brussels. On Friday at a news conference with Mr. Juncker, however, he took a milder tone, saying that while “migration can be a divisive subject,” Slovakia wishes to create a “scope for discussion. ” Slovakia’s foreign minister, Miroslav Lajcak, said this week that he would “support any measure” to keep Britain in the bloc, becoming one of the few European officials to raise the possibility of additional concessions. In many respects, Slovakia is a major champion of the European project. Brussels has provided huge amounts of funding to develop its infrastructure, and Slovakia is a member of both the eurozone and the Schengen area. But some of the policies from Brussels have outraged Slovaks, and Mr. Fico in particular. Mr. Fico has said that his country will accept only Christian refugees, and that forcing a country with little history of Muslim immigration to take in Muslim refugees would amount to “false solidarity. ” Slovakia is suing at the Court of Justice of the European Union to block a system devised by the European Commission that could require it to take a quota of migrants from the Middle East and Africa. Mr. Juncker promised to cut down on red tape in Brussels, but said the European Union could not compromise on bedrock principles like freedom of movement. “There was one major issue, the freedom of movement of workers, and I will not change that because this is a basic freedom of the European Union,” Mr. Juncker said.