SYDNEY, Australia  —   Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of Australia and his conservative Liberal National coalition could lose more than 10 seats in Parliament, according to early election returns on Saturday, which might leave it unable to form a majority government. Neither Mr. Turnbull nor the opposition Labor leader, Bill Shorten, had conceded defeat late Saturday, with about 70 percent of the votes counted in the elections to select Australia’s   House of Representatives. The party or coalition that wins a majority of the seats in the House forms a government. A sharp reduction in the 90 seats Mr. Turnbull’s government held before the election could damage his leadership prospects. Mr. Turnbull’s decision to call an early election and run a long campaign now seems to have been a poor gamble. Australia’s election campaigns typically run about four weeks. This one was about two months. According to official projections late Saturday from the Australian Electoral Commission, the governing coalition, which includes the Liberal and National Parties, was on track to win at least 68 seats, and the Australian Labor Party at least 70. Australia’s third major party, the Greens, had won one seat, and independent candidates had won four seats. The contests for as many as seven seats were still undecided when counting was suspended for the day. Analysts said absentee votes submitted by mail and votes cast early at polling places could affect the outcome. About 30 percent of Australia’s 15. 6 million voters cast their ballots in these ways. Mr. Turnbull spoke just after midnight to a rowdy gathering of Liberal Party members at Sydney’s Wentworth Hotel. “Tonight, my friends,” he said, “I can report that based on the advice I have from the party officials, we can have every confidence that we will form a coalition majority government. ” But the final result, in terms of seats, may not be known until Tuesday, Mr. Turnbull said. Speaking to Labor Party supporters gathered at the Moonee Valley Racing Club in Melbourne, Mr. Shorten said: “We will not know the outcome of this election tonight. Indeed, we may not know it for some days to come. But there is one thing for sure: The Labor Party is back. ” “And Mr. Turnbull’s economic program, such as it was, has been rejected by the people of Australia,” he added. “Whatever happens next week, Mr. Turnbull will never be able to claim that the people of Australia have adopted his ideological agenda. ” The federal treasurer, Scott Morrison, a Liberal Party member, speaking on ABC television, rejected criticism of Mr. Turnbull’s leadership. He said he expected the coalition to form a government once all votes were counted. Mr. Turnbull unseated Tony Abbott, who was in his first term as prime minister, just 10 months ago, but now he is facing an erosion of support. Political analysts said that if the Liberal National coalition failed to win 76 seats in the House, it would be forced to form an alliance with some of the minor parties or independents, only two of whom are likely to side with the conservative coalition. Mr. Turnbull is also likely to face a more fractious Senate. Vote counting for the Senate races had not been completed. Analysts said minor parties would win more seats there, making it harder for the government to pass its legislation. The governing coalition held 33 seats in the Senate before Saturday’s election and needed six more to hold a majority. Australia’s   Senate, which checks the power of the House of Representatives by having the final say over all legislation, is made up of 12 senators from each state, plus two each from the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, the location of the capital, Canberra. Typically, minor parties find it easier to win those seats, and so they are able to wield a disproportionate degree of power in relation to their level of support. In May, Mr. Turnbull called for a   election, in which all Senate seats are thrown open for a vote instead of the usual half. This followed changes in March to Senate rules that Mr. Turnbull hoped would result in a less fractious upper house by making it harder for dissenting senators to retain their seats. Early results showed that One Nation, an     party based in the state of Queensland and led by Pauline Hanson, was likely to win at least one Senate seat.