MONESSEN, Pa.  —   Thirty years have passed, almost to the day, since the last blasts of the steel furnaces that were the reason for this city’s existence. The steel mill is gone  —   used to film “RoboCop,” then demolished. Most of the people are gone, too, and those who remain are struggling to find a new purpose for this place. Last week, Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, came here to declare that as president, he would revive the fortunes of the American steel industry  —   and, by implication, Monessen. “We are going to put   steel back into the backbone of our country,” Mr. Trump told 200 invited guests at an aluminum recycling facility that occupies part of the old mill complex. “This alone will create massive numbers of jobs. ” In fact, about 71 percent of the steel used last year in the United States was made in the United States, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute. The mills in Monessen and other cities along the Monongahela River were not replaced by Chinese factories but by smaller, more efficient factories in other parts of the country. Having lived through that transition, the people here surrendered hope of a   revival long ago. They are focused on smaller dreams, like scraping together a few million dollars to knock down hundreds of abandoned buildings, which might clear the way for the city to start over. “Our government spent $10 to $12 million looking for that Malaysian airliner,” said Louis Mavrakis, the city’s Democratic mayor, who said that he had written two unanswered letters to President Obama before extending an invitation to Mr. Trump. “Act like I’m a foreign country. Give me $5 million and I can get rid of this blight. ” Monessen’s bolder visions are of something postindustrial and modern, like in Pittsburgh, 35 miles north. “We’re dying rather than letting something new grow and move forward,” said Charles Mrlack, 42, who owns a plumbing and contracting business. The problem, he said, is that older residents know that steel is not coming back, but they cannot imagine anything else. “Everybody is just defeated,” he said. Monessen was created by steel magnates who built factories in a stretch of flatlands along the Monongahela. By 1930, more than 20, 000 people lived in the long, narrow downtown, or on the steep slopes behind. Workers here rolled steel for Chrysler cars and cables for the Golden Gate Bridge. The city’s golden age lasted into the 1960s. Older residents  —   and they are mostly older  —   still remember a downtown so crowded that people had to walk in the streets. The Pittsburgh region’s steelmaking capacity fell to 7. 1 million tons in 2008, from 25. 4 million tons in 1978, according to Frank Giarratani, an economist at the University of Pittsburgh who studies the industry. During that same period, the number of area steelworkers fell to 15, 500 from 85, 000. What are the chances that steel will again be made in Monessen? “There is no possibility of that under any circumstances,” Mr. Giarratani said. Monessen’s largest factory, the massive Wheeling  Pittsburgh steel mill, closed in 1986. The city’s population continues to fall, dropping below 7, 500 last year. The sewer system is collapsing, and erosion is undermining streets and sidewalks. It is getting harder for the high school football team to fill its roster. For years, residents dreamed that a new company would take over the old factory. But in the   a county redevelopment authority decided to demolish the core of the old mill complex and to make the other buildings available to smaller companies. All four of Matt Shorraw’s grandparents worked at the Monessen steel mill, but his parents did not. They had seen the writing on the wall. For Mr. Shorraw, 25, the giant mill that once dominated the city is barely a memory. “I remember when they tore the blast furnaces down,” he said. “It was a big deal. My dad took me. I was 5. ” A few hundred people now work for other businesses on the site, including at the aluminum recycling facility where Mr. Trump spoke last week. One former tenant, a glassmaking company, was feted as a   success story by the Obama administration in 2011. It closed the next year, a victim of the collapse in the   industry. Josh Turkovich, 33, said he would have liked a steady job at the local mill. “You could see the guys who worked there had a good life,” he said, “the car, the house. ” Instead, after graduating from a nearby college, Mr. Turkovich took a   job at a Pittsburgh hospital, an hour’s drive each way. Mr. Turkovich is now trying to build a business in Monessen. He repairs cellphones and is renovating a downtown building he bought in April. He became a father in January, and said he would like to remain closer to home. “I never thought about leaving,” he said. But staying is not so easy. Last week, the roof on the building across the street collapsed. He worries that building could fall into his store. The city’s younger residents are frustrated that the older generation still dreams of factories. They want to replace some of the old mills with waterfront homes and restaurants. They would like to see the city and the river meet, instead of being almost entirely separated by the old industrial strip. A few years ago, the city was approached by a developer who wanted to create an indoor sports park in one of the old warehouses. The idea was rejected as unindustrial. The city does not lack for other ideas. Some residents think it should try to attract artists. Mr. Shorraw, who has a   job as an assistant band director at the town’s high school, wants to create a music center in a downtown building that once housed a grocery store. A local businesswoman recently pitched to the City Council the idea of using part of the old factory site as a medical marijuana farm. Mr. Mavrakis, the mayor, has little patience for these dreams. A blunt and forceful man who spent much of his life as a union organizer, he would like to demolish much of the remaining downtown and offer the land for new development. “I understand that we can’t get all the way back,” he said. “I’d like to get halfway. ” Possibly the town’s greatest success story has come from a company almost as old as Monessen itself, and without any public planning or help. The Douglas Education Center was founded in 1904 as a finishing school for high school graduates headed into corporate jobs. The school has become a primary training ground for people who create   monsters for movies, thanks to a program created by Tom Savini, a Pittsburgh native, an actor and a renowned makeup artist for horror movies. The school now has offices in an old church, classrooms in a former hospital and workshops in a former convent now stuffed with models and masks of monsters, ghouls and aliens. A soundstage with a green screen occupies what was once a furniture showroom. The education center employs more than 70 people, and there are 200 to 300 students enrolled in a variety of training programs. “I tell people, ‘If you want to look at pretty trees and a beautiful city, go to Miami,’” said Tony Baez Milan, the school’s director of admissions. “‘You want to get a job? Come to Monessen. ’” For students who like monsters, he adds, the crumbling city has its own charm. Kayla Eversole, 19, came all the way from Japan, where she grew up. She found the school online and was surprised by the city. Five months later, she said she was glad to be here. No, she said, she had no idea there was once a giant steel mill down the street.