 (CNN) Rory McIlroy’s hopes of starting 2017 with a notable victory were thwarted by a golfer whose career was in ruins just two short months ago. Graeme Storm thought he had lost his European Tour card after the final   event of last year in November, but was given a reprieve when US star Patrick Reed had to give his up because he had not played the required number of tournaments. Fast forward to this weekend and the    Englishman capitalized on his good fortune by beating world No. 2 McIlroy in a playoff at the South African Open. It elevated him from 251 to 133 in the world rankings. Storm, whose only other Tour win came at the 2007 French Open, won with a par at the third extra hole after his illustrious opponent missed a   putt to make a bogey. ”I am in shock,” Storm said after his unlikely triumph, having seen McIlroy erode his   overnight advantage Sunday at the Glendower Club in Johannesburg. ”What can I say? This is surreal. I have just beaten a golfer who is the best in the world right now. ”This is a dream come true after nearly losing my tour card. The whole experience this week has been absolutely incredible.” McIlroy, who battled a back problem which required   tablets, shot a   68 to Storm’s 71, but struggled throughout the playoff with wayward shots off the tee. ”Obviously, it’s disappointing to finish   but Graeme played well all week and what a story for him,” said the Northern Irishman, who will have a scan on his back  ahead of this week’s Abu Dhabi Championship. ’It’s not a bad way to start the season and obviously something to build on in the coming weeks,” he added. McIlroy was the star attraction at a tournament hosted by South African great Ernie Els. It’s the second oldest national open after Britain’s Open Championship, dating back to 1893.   major winner McIlroy has set his sights on success at April’s US Masters to complete a career grand slam and regain top spot in the rankings, currently held by Australian Jason Day. Visit cnn.  for more news and videos, England’s Jordan Smith finished one shot out of the playoff on   271 after a closing 68, with Dean Burmester the   home golfer, two shots further back in fourth spot.