January 17, 2017, The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. the possibility of ” ” a home in Beijing, and the   video of a recently identified ocean species: These are our first three stories on CNN 10. The strike of a rattlesnake in the wild and the end of an era for the circus are also featured this Tuesday. TRANSCRIPT, CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  One day after the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday  in the U. S. CNN 10 is kicking off a new week of news coverage.  I`m Carl  Azuz.  Thank you for watching. For many people in America, yesterday was a day off school or work.  The  holiday became official on the third Monday of January in 1986, after  President Ronald Reagan had signed it into law more than two years earlier.   But in recent years, the U. S. government has pushed for the Martin Luther  King Jr. holiday to be recognized not as a ”day off” but as ”day on” a day  of service.  The Corporation for National and Community Service quotes Dr.  King`s statement that life`s most persistent and urgent question is, what  are you doing for others?   So, that theme joins the memory of Dr. King`s impact on the U. S. civil  rights movement. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) REPORTER:  Dr. King`s legacy of nonviolent protesting lives on.  To get a  better understanding, I took a trip to Atlanta`s Center for Civil and Human  Rights. The center`s LaTasha Smith provided the history lesson. LATASHA SMITH, CENTER FOR CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS:  So, in the 1950s, you  also had the death of Emmett Till and how that really sparked the civil  rights movement, because people were outraged that this young black boy was  killed for allegations that were untrue and false, and his murder being so  unjust and so brutal at the time. REPORTER:  Till`s death pushed King and others to develop more unified  strategies of protest.  That included the bus boycotts and the lunch  counter   across the south.   SMITH:  So, we have the Greensboro   at the Woolworth lunch counter  and that`s in the 1960s where student at North Carolina AT sat down at    counters to protest the segregation that was taking place there. REPORTER:    like these were conducted by college students.  They  endured racial slurs and physical violence just for the right to sit at the  whites only counters.    The   movement was a precursor to the March on Washington.  The march  inspired many with its peaceful show of solidarity and amazing speeches.   But its leaders wanted more. What was the strategy behind it?  What were they fighting for?  What  specifically did they want? SMITH:  So, March on Washington was all about jobs and freedom and  equality.  What a lot of people don`t know is that there were a set of 10  demands that were created and were drafted      REPORTER:  Here they are. SMITH:     that were    that the protesters wanted to achieve. REPORTER:  Though much has been accomplished since the march, at the time,  opposition to change persisted, and so did violence. The Birmingham church bombing, Bloody Sunday, and the murder of the  movement`s leader set the country on fire. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  The nation of China is reportedly planning to spend more than $2. 5  billion this year to fight air pollution in its capital city, Beijing.   Last month, it was under a red alert    China`s strongest warning about air  pollution.  To reduce it, the Chinese government is planning to remove  thousands of older higher polluting cars from the road, to reduce the  emissions from factories and to replace coal with clean energy.   There are steps that people who live in Beijing can take to clean the air  at home, but in a city where the average salary is under $17, 000 per year,  this won`t be an option for most people. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  Jiang Wang and her family are   their Beijing  home. JIANG WANG, BEIJING RESIDENT:  Before I come to Beijing, I would never  imagine that my routine were so close to carefully measure the pollution  around every corner of the house. YANN BOQUILLOD, FOUNDER, AIRVISUAL:  To proof the place for pollution,  there`s a few things considered, the level of PM2. 5, to make sure the level  is low.  But on the other side, if you seal very well your house, levels of  CO2 will start to go really, really high. SUBTITLE:  For home to be protected, it needs to be sealed airtight. BOQUILLOD:  This actually quite an expensive system.  So, the airflow being  brought in is actually quite large.  Fresh air is taking from air, it goes  into the pipes, into every single room.  So, you got one pipe going here,  we got the other pipes going there to serve single room into this  apartment.  But you still need to have this kind of standalone equipment,  air purifying machines, usually one a room in order to really make sure to  find a nice    the cleaning of the air. WANG:  From the moment you open your eyes and to the moment to, you know,  you rest in the evening, every corner, you have to pay really attention and  to the air, to the water, to the food you eat.  It`s like there`s alarm  constantly ringing, you know? (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ ( ):    trivia: How much of the Earth`s surface is covered by oceans?     percent, 56 percent, 71 percent, or 97 percent? The ocean has covered about 71 percent of the earth`s surface, but they  have 97 percent of the planet`s water. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  And in that water, potentially millions of undiscovered plant and  animal species.  This one, the ruby seadragon is only identified in 2015  and this is the first ever video of live ruby seadragons.  It was captured  in an archipelago near Western Australia.  A remote controlled vehicle  filmed ruby seadragon swimming and feeding.  Before 2015, scientists believe only two specifies of seadragon existed.   So, this is the third ever captured on camera. A seadragon is a type of fish and researchers think this one might use its  long tail to grab on to rocks so it`s not carried away by strong currents. Next up, another caught on camera first for science.  This video is a  little scarier, but as long as you`re not rooting for the snake, everything  is going to be all right.   It shows a rattlesnake, a type of pit viper, aiming for a kangaroo rat.   This is the first that high speed video captured a viper striking at its  prey in the wild and yes, it`s a miss.  The rat somebody twists in the neck  of time and gets away.   This footage was recorded at 500 frames per second.  Playback is slowed  down 30 times.  That gives you a sense of how fast all this really  happened.  Apparently, not a lot is known about rattlesnake strikes in the  wild, so filming like this can help biologist better understand them. Well, the circus is leaving town but this time, it`s not coming back.  At  least it`s not as far as the Ringling Brothers and Barnum  Bailey circus  goes.  It`s been operating in the U. S. for 146 years and millions of people  went to the circus each year in recent times.  But the numbers and the  ticket sales they brought were shrinking and the company that operates the  circus recently announced that its last performances ever would be this  May. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERICK WHITFIELD, CNN CORRESPONDENT ( ):  It`s the end of the  road for the greatest show on earth.  In just four months, the curtain  falls on the one and only Ringling Brothers Barnum  Bailey Circus, an  iconic road show that defines of the circus experience for generations of  children. In the end, CEO Kenneth Feld said the circus was simply too expensive to  produce.  His family has owned the show for the past 50 years.  But ticket  sales were declining and the circus`s fate was likely sealed last year when  it retired the popular elephant show.  Feld said then it was inevitable.   KENNETH FELD, FELD ENTERTAINMENT CEO:  There`s a saying and it`s been  around for a long time.  You can`t fight city hall.  And we found that to  be the case in this situation. WHITFIELD:  For years, the elephants and their dance routines were a big  draw for a circus fan, but not at all popular with animal rights groups  which deplored their treatment and repeatedly criticized, picketed and sued  the company for its treatment of animals.   In 2011, the circus paid a fine of more than a quarter million dollars for  alleged violation of the Animal Welfare Act.  And last year, it retired the  elephants to a conservation center in Florida. After the closure was announced people for the ethical treatment of the  animals declared victory while admitting its war against other wild animal  exhibitors including marine amusement parks like SeaWorld is far from over.   The last performance of the Ringling Brother Barnum  Bailey circus will be  on May 21st in Uniondale, New York. Fredricka Whitfield, CNN, Atlanta.   (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Responding to animal rights groups, the CEO of the company that owns  the circus says its closure is not a win for them and, quote, ”this is not  a win for anyone.”  He added that entertainment has changed and that the  traditional family unit is different. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  Some people struggled to balance a book or maybe some fruit on their  heads.  Earning a perfect ”10 out of 10” today, this guy makes it look easy  to balance another person on his head.  But it`s not just the balancing  here.  Its` the Guinness World Record set when two Vietnamese circus  performers and brothers went head to head and ascended the 90 stairs of St.  Mary`s Cathedral in Girona, Spain.  They did it in 52 seconds. So, when two athletes put their heads together, it`s possible for them both  to win a staring contest.  And whether you call that head over heels or  head under heels, it invited a lot of stares when they headed upstairs and  stared head long into a new world record. I`m Carl Azuz for CNN 10. Click here to access the printable version of today’s CNN 10 transcript. CNN 10 serves a growing audience interested in compact   news broadcasts ideal for explanation seekers on the go or in the classroom. The show’s priority is to identify stories of international significance and then clearly describe why they’re making news, who is affected, and how the events fit into a complex, international society. Thank you for using CNN 10