January 18, 2017, The search has been suspended for Malaysian Airlines Flight 370. U. S. troops and equipment are on the move throughout Eastern Europe. The U. S. capital is preparing for a presidential inauguration. And we take a historic look at Inauguration Day traditions. It’s all explained this Wednesday on CNN 10. TRANSCRIPT, CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  This is CNN 10.  Ten minutes of world news  explained.  I`m Carl Azuz. And leading things off this Wednesday, January 18th, a mystery, one of the  biggest in the history of aviation may go unsolved.  The underwater search  for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has been called off.  On March 8, 2014,  the flight left Kuala Lumpur and headed for Beijing, China.  It had 239  people onboard. At some point during the journey, military radar indicated that the plane  changed course and headed west.  Investigators believe it eventually turned  south, toward the southern Indian Ocean.  After that, the train went cold.   A few pieces of the plane have washed up on islands near the east coast of  Africa.  But despite years of searching 46, 000 square miles and spending  millions of dollars, no one knows what happened to the plane.  Its black  box, its flight data recorder may hold some answers, but it`s missing with  the flight.   And Malaysia, China, and Australia, the three countries leading the search  announced yesterday they were suspending it.  They said the decision was  not made lightly or without sadness.  But a group that represents family members of the flight`s passengers says  stopping it at this stage is nothing short of irresponsible. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Following a plane crash, the search for  survivors always comes first.  But just as important is a search for  answers, the why and the how.  Often, those answers are found in a black  box. SUBTITLE:  What is a black box? CRANE:  Since the `60s, all commercial airplanes have been required to have  one on board.  Now, the name is a little misleading because they`re  actually orange.  And when we`re talking about a black box, we`re talking  about two different boxes    one being the cockpit voice recorder, the  other being the flight data recorder.  Together, they weigh anywhere  between 20 to 30 pounds, and they have to be  . Black boxes can survive just about anything: temperatures up to 2, 000  degrees Fahrenheit for an hour, forces that are 3400 Gs.  Now, that`s 3400  times the force of gravity.  They`re waterproof and they can save recorded  data for two years.  And it`s a lot of data. The cockpit voice recorder records that crew`s conversation and background  noise.  By listening to the ambient sounds in the cockpit before a crash,  experts can determine if the stall took place, the RPMs of the engine and  the speed of which the plane was traveling.  When these sounds are   referenced with ground control conversations, they can even help searches  locate a crash site.   Then, there`s the flight data recorder.  It gathers 25 hours of technical  data from airplane sensors, recording several thousand discreet pieces of  information.  Data about the airspeed, altitude, pitch, acceleration, roll,  fuel, and the list goes on and on. But to make sense of the data, first, you have to find it.  Not an easy  thing to do when a plane crashes into the ocean.   Both black box components are outfitted with underwater locator beacons,  which   the moment they come into contact with water.  They  sent pings once per second to signal their location and can transmit data  from as deep as 20, 000 feet for up to 30 days, when their batteries then  run out. But on land, there`s no such pinging to help guide the search.   Investigators have to sift through the wreckage until they find it. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  Up next, it`s a force of 4, 000 U. S. troops, plus 2, 400 pieces of  military equipment, including tanks, artillery and armored trucks.  It`s  all part of a deployment lasting nine months and it`s moving throughout  Eastern Europe on training exercises.   The Americans who recently arrived in Poland received a welcome ceremony  and a greeting from the country`s prime minister.   A commander of the U. S. land forces in Europe says their presence was a  concrete sign of the continued U. S. commitment to the defense of Poland and  the NATO alliance. But Russia said it saw the deployment as a threat, an action that threatens  Russian interest and security.  Here`s why there`s tension over this. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ATIKA SHUBERT, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The one thing you need to know about  U. S. troop deployment across Europe is the word ”collective defense”. Let`s take this example, say, Russian tanks crossed the border and invaded  Latvia, well, then, it would be U. S. soldiers that rushed to the frontline  in Latvia`s defense.  That`s the basis of the North Atlantic Treaty  Organization or NATO, an alliance of 28 countries guaranteeing their  region`s security.  An attack on one is an attack on all. But the United States has, by far, the most powerful military in the  alliance. The NATO was formed in 1949, just after World War II, in order to contain  the Soviet Union.  But in 1991, the USSR collapsed.  In the next decade or  so, NATO grew to include some of those former Soviet states.  Then, in  2014, Russian forces entered Ukraine, seizing the Crimean Peninsula, a  violation of international law. Now, Ukraine is not a member of NATO.  So, the United States and other NATO  allies did not mobilize troops to defend Ukraine, but many of Ukraine`s  neighbors are members of NATO. Poland, Estonia, and Latvia are just some of the NATO allies that have  called for more troops to come to their defense.  And this is why we see  thousands of U. S. troops now deployed across Eastern Europe, to create a  strong deterrent against any further Russian aggression. (END VIDEOTAPE) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ ( ):    trivia.   Which U. S. president gave the shortest inaugural address?  George  Washington, William Henry Harrison, Abraham Lincoln or Franklin Delano  Roosevelt? Delivered in 1793, George Washington`s second inaugural address was the  shortest ever in 135 words, just two paragraphs. (END VIDEO CLIP) AZUZ:  Two hundred   years later, a presidential inauguration is  a massive event.  No matter how short or long the speech might be.  The  price tag can ring up at $200 million.   That`s not just this year`s event, that`s what inaugurations can typically  cost in the 21st century.  According to the Washington Post” both parties,  Democrats and Republicans, tend to spend the same amount for inaugurations.   Private donations can cover $70 million of the cost, give or take.  The  rest comes from taxpayers and the money goes to everything from security,  the biggest expense, to the swearing in ceremony, the parade, the parties,  and the inaugural ball. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SUBTITLE:  Inauguration day is a long one for the new leader of the free  world. Traditionally, the   wakes up at Blair House, the president`s  guest house.   Trump is planning to stay at Blair House, even with his  hotel just down the street. Then the   takes a ride around the corner to St. John`s  Church. Then it`s time to take the oath. GEORGE H. W. BUSH, FORMER PRESIDENT:  I, George Herbert Walker, Bush      UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (INAUDIBLE) RONALD REAGAN, FORMER U. S. PRESIDENT:  That I will faithfully execute the  office of president of the United States. SUBTITLE:  Next: deliver a killer speech. FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT, FORMER U. S. PRESIDENT:  The only thing we have to  fear is fear itself. REAGAN:  Do whatever needs to be done to preserve this last and greatest  bastion of freedom. JOHN F. KENNEDY, FORMER U. S. PRESIDENT:  Ask not what your country can do  for you, ask what you can do for your country. SUBTITLE:  Grab lunch with the Senate. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thank you for a president who knows you and seeks your  through Scripture. SUBTITLE:  The lunch has been a thing since 1953.  That`s followed by a brisk walk down Pennsylvania Avenue.  (Or a drive.   It`s cold in January.) Then it`s time to thaw out and watch the parade.  (Or take a selfie.) Finally, it`s time to have a( n inaugural) ball. Optional: Show off. (END VIDEOTAPE) AZUZ:  There`s a quick, easy and free way to find out in advance what`s  coming up on CNN 10, by signing for our daily email.  From our home page,  all you got to do is click on ”sign up for daily emails”.  Enter your email  address, your first name, your state, that`s it. The night before each day`s show, you get a quick summary of our major  stories sent right to your inbox. (MUSIC) AZUZ:  For ”10 out of 10” today, you`d expect to see a polar bear playing  in the snow.  So, no surprises here.  But when you see an Asian elephant  doing the same thing, you know something is up.   This ain`t the Arctic, it`s the Oregon Zoo.  It shut down one day last week  for an unusually strong snow storm, but some of the animals looked like  they love it.  They took advantage of a snow day to play like kids on a day  off from school. Of course, the polar animals could bear it.  As far as complaints went, the  marine mammals` lips were sealed, and it didn`t seem like it bothered the  elephant`s pachydermis.  So, even if snow wasn`t part of their natural  habitat, it wasn`t zoo cold for them to luxzooriate in near blizzoed  conditions.   I`m Carl Azoos for CNN 10. Click here to access the printable version of today’s CNN 10 transcript. CNN 10 serves a growing audience interested in compact   news broadcasts ideal for explanation seekers on the go or in the classroom. The show’s priority is to identify stories of international significance and then clearly describe why they’re making news, who is affected, and how the events fit into a complex, international society. Thank you for using CNN 10