 (CNN) Here’s a look at the life of retired Marine General James Mattis, the US Secretary of Defense.  Personal:Birth date: September 8, 1950, Birth place: Pullman, Washington, Name: James N. Mattis  Father: John West Mattis, Mother: Lucille (Proulx) Mattis, Education: Central Washington University, B. A. in History, 1971, Military service: US Marines,     general  Other Facts:Has more than 40 years of military service, commanding Marines in Operation Desert Storm, and Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom.  Nicknamed the ”Warrior Monk” and ”Mad Dog,” and went by the military call sign, ”Chaos.”     Known for his blunt style of speech and extensive knowledge of military strategy. Also known for some of his memorable quotes, including, ”Be polite, be professional, but have a plan to kill everybody you meet.” Has stated that he doesn’t own a television.  HBO’s 2008,   miniseries, ”Generation Kill,” follows the story of Marines with the First Recon Battalion through the first part of the Iraq War, with a storyline that includes a portrayal of Mattis. If confirmed, Mattis would be the   military official ever to lead the Pentagon.   Timeline:1969   Enlists in the US Marine Corps.  1972   Commissioned as a second lieutenant through the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC).  November 2001   Leads Task Force 58 into southern Afghanistan. At 400 miles inland, this is considered the ”farthest ranging amphibious assault” in the history of the Marine Corps and Navy.      Commander of the First Marine Division.     Commander of Marine Corps Combat Development Command.      Commander of I Marine Expeditionary Force.     NATO Supreme Allied Commander Transformation.     Commander of US Joint Forces Command.      Commander of US Central Command (CENTCOM). 2013   Retires as a   general.  August 2013   Named as a distinguished visiting fellow with the Hoover Institution at Stanford University.  August 2016     of the book, ”Warriors and Citizens: American Views of Our Military.”  December 2016     Donald Trump announces he will nominate Mattis to serve as secretary of defense.  January   2017   The House and Senate vote to approve a waiver allowing Mattis to serve as secretary of defense even though he retired from the military four years ago (a rule dictates that retired military officials must wait seven years before leading the Department of Defense). January 18, 2017   Mattis is approved by the Senate Armed Services Committee with a   vote, clearing the way for him to be confirmed with a full Senate vote. January 20, 2017   The US Senate votes   to approve Mattis as defense secretary. New York Democratic Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand is the only senator to vote against him. Later the same day, Mattis is sworn in by Vice President Mike Pence. February 20, 2017   Mattis makes his first trip to Baghdad as defense secretary and tells reporters that the United States will not seize oil in Iraq. President Donald Trump has said, repeatedly, that the military should have taken oil in the wake of the war in Iraq. 