LONDON  —   It was only a column in The Daily Mail, but in its way, it told you everything you need to know about politics in Britain these days. It was written by Sarah Vine, who is married to Michael Gove, a leader of the   “Brexit” campaign, and it appeared soon after Britain shocked itself (and the Goves) by voting to leave the European Union. The referendum threw the country into turmoil, and no one, including Mr. Gove, had a coherent plan for what to do next. But that did not seem to bother Ms. Vine. Yes, she wrote, it is “an awesome responsibility that he  —   we  —   are now charged with implementing the instructions of 17 million people. ” But perhaps more urgently, she went on, the whole affair had messed up her social life and upset her and her husband’s political plans. “David Cameron was not supposed to go,” she complained, referring to the prime minister’s decision to step down after losing the referendum, when she would have preferred that he stay. “I felt the agony of what the business of politics had done to the people at the heart of all of this: how old friends had been wrenched apart in the most brutal of ways. ” You can say that again. By opposing Mr. Cameron over Brexit, Mr. Gove, the government’s justice secretary, betrayed not just his boss and the leader of the Conservative Party, but also an old friend. (Mr. Cameron and his wife, Samantha, are reportedly no longer speaking to the Goves.) That is surely sad for them, but it also illustrates the peculiarities of a system whose dysfunction  —   very different from the American kind  —   has been caused in part by the extreme incestuousness and myopia of Britain’s governing elite. It’s as if President Obama’s inner circle consisted almost entirely of his friends, neighbors and fellow Harvard graduates. Looking at the backgrounds of the leading personalities in the Brexit drama, it is hard not to conclude that Britain has been led into crisis in large part by a bunch of old chums who spent the last year holed up in a political hall of mirrors, plotting with and scheming against one another. The top four figures in the debate  —   Mr. Cameron Mr. Gove Boris Johnson, the   former mayor of London and George Osborne, the   chancellor of the Exchequer  —   all went to Oxford. Both Mr. Gove and Mr. Johnson were presidents of the Oxford Union. Mr. Johnson, Mr. Cameron and Mr. Osborne all belonged to the       Bullingdon Club. Mr. Johnson and Mr. Cameron were both educated at Eton. The Goves and the Osbornes take vacations together. Mr. Johnson calls Mr. Gove (or at least he did, until Mr. Gove betrayed him, too) “the Gover. ” “You really get the impression that the government is being run by a clique at public school,” said the novelist and political commentator Robert Harris. “They live in the same area of West London, they all socialize together, they were at one another’s weddings, and they are godparents to one another’s children. There’s a sense of a gilded circle who have played   politics with the country, in the service of their own ambition. ” Theresa May, the home secretary and a   in the race to be party leader, is not part of that coterie. She is seen as an independent operator who is loath to make boys’     deals. Appearing to be an actual   in contrast to the squabbling, backstabbing men now in power, has helped position Ms. May as a welcome antidote to the current disarray. Although, to be fair, she also went to Oxford. “You’re seeing a closing of the ranks behind a candidate the Conservatives think they can support,” Peter Paul Catterall, who teaches history at the University of Westminster, said of Ms. May. “But it has something of the whiff of people desperate to go for whoever has the ability to keep the lifeboat afloat, even though no one knows where it’s going. ” Still, her ascent wasn’t part of the plan. Mr. Cameron had long been grooming Mr. Osborne to succeed him, but that idea disintegrated when the Leave side unexpectedly won the referendum. Mr. Cameron decided to step down rather than deal with the aftermath, and Mr. Johnson and Mr. Gove rushed to fill the vacuum as a team, focusing not on how, but on who, would govern (namely, the two of them). Then that alliance, too, fell apart when Mr. Gove abruptly announced that he would run against Mr. Johnson for the party leadership, and Mr. Johnson dropped out. Again, it all seemed personal, parochial and petty, playing out in the news media as Jacobean revenge tragedy or   farce, take your pick. The top players in both the Tory and Labour Parties tend to go to parties and dinners with the journalists who cover them, and do their best to court the influential owners of their newspapers, too. In the London   complex, everyone is connected to everyone else. Both Mr. Johnson and Mr. Gove were journalists before they became politicians Mr. Johnson still writes a weekly column for The Daily Telegraph. Mr. Gove’s sudden betrayal of Mr. Johnson also had personal repercussions, and along came Rachel Johnson to explain what they were. Ms. Johnson is an impeccably connected columnist for The Mail on Sunday  —   and Boris Johnson’s sister. Though the two Mails are owned by the same person, their editors are feuding, and they tend to undercut each other and take opposing editorial positions. (Do try to keep up.) So while The Mail has Ms. Vine ( ) The Mail on Sunday has Ms. Johnson ( ). In an earlier column, Ms. Johnson had already described her distress at her brother’s   stance, an unpopular position in her trendy Notting Hill neighborhood. “Close friends are refusing invitations to my kitchen suppers,” she wrote. Now she unleashed her fury at Mr. Gove, portraying him as a “political psychopath,” the Brutus to her brother’s Caesar, and at Ms. Vine, whom she compared to Lady Macbeth. Then, possibly hedging her bets in case Mr. Gove somehow got into power  —   a situation that now looks increasingly unlikely  —   she added another personal note. “And yet, having said all that, and knowing them a bit, it’s hard to imagine they mean any harm,” Ms. Johnson wrote of the Goves. “I like them. They are both lively company and huge fun. Indeed, we sometimes say that we must have supper soon, and perhaps we will, when the bleeding bodies of the fallen are removed from the smoking battlefield of this campaign. ”