Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. A retaliatory attack on white police officers shocked the nation and reshaped the anguished debate over race and criminal justice. A black Army veteran with a troubled history opened fire on officers patrolling a protest in Dallas against police shootings of black men in Louisiana and Minnesota. He killed five officers and wounded others in a standoff that ended only when the police sent an   robot to blow him up, a tactic of war. _____ 2. President Obama interrupted meetings with NATO leaders in Warsaw to condemn the attack on officers and try to bridge the national divide. “There is sorrow, there is anger, there is confusion about next steps,” he said. “But there is unity in recognizing that this is not how we want our communities to operate. This is not who we want to be as Americans. ” Some critics, like the executive director of the National Association of Police Organizations, accused his administration of appeasing violent criminals in ways that “led directly to the climate that has made Dallas possible. ” Mr. Obama is cutting his European trip short to head to Dallas early in the week and plans to invite activists, police officials and others to the White House to seek “constructive actions that are actually going to make a difference. ” _____ 3. The violence reverberated through the presidential campaign, but neither Donald Trump nor Hillary Clinton appeared to find a message that could unify the country. Above, Mrs. Clinton at an African Methodist Episcopal Church conference in Philadelphia. Earlier in the week, the focus was on the end of the federal investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s emails  —   which only deepened partisan wrangling and did little to improve her low ratings on trust. She may get a boost this week. Confidants of the Bernie Sanders campaign say he will endorse Mrs. Clinton on Tuesday. _____ 4. Mr. Trump’s running mate should be announced within days, and his list of speakers for the Republican National Convention is also expected. Even before the Dallas attack, his campaign had been suffering a tumultuous week. He angrily rejected accusations of  . And he unnerved fellow Republicans on multiple fronts, including by lashing out during meetings with congressional representatives, praising Saddam Hussein for “killing terrorists,” and declining to reject the idea that he might abdicate if he wins the presidential election. _____ 5. Surprisingly good news on health: Major diseases are inexplicably waning in the U. S. and other wealthy countries. Improved diagnosis and treatment cannot fully explain the plunge in overall rates of colon cancer, dementia, heart disease and hip fractures. Our science reporter writes, “The leading killers are still the leading killers  —   cancer, heart disease, stroke  —   but they are occurring later in life, and people in general are living longer in good health. ” _____ 6. In sports, it’s France versus Portugal for the Euro 2016 soccer title (3 p. m. Eastern, ESPN and streaming). Andy Murray prevailed over Milos Raonic to win his second Wimbledon title, and Serena Williams won the women’s final for a   22nd Grand Slam singles title. Lydia Ko is aiming for her third major title at the U. S. Open golf tournament. Coming: The M. L. B.   game on Tuesday and the British Open golf tournament on Thursday, with the American Zach Johnson as the defending champion. The most discussed sports story this week was the decision by Kevin Durant, a top N. B. A. scorer, to leave the Oklahoma City Thunder for the Golden State Warriors. One writer observed, “It’s hard not to see Silicon Valley triumphalism behind his decision to abandon the only professional team he has played for. ” _____ 7. Britain’s next prime minister will be a woman, though which  —   Theresa May, the home secretary, above, or Andrea Leadsom, the junior energy minister  —   won’t be decided until September. The two are the final candidates to take leadership of the Conservative Party after David Cameron, who opted to step aside following the country’s vote to withdraw from the European Union. Whoever wins will be the first woman to lead Britain since Margaret Thatcher, and could be an outsider among the current clique of leading personalities in the Brexit drama. _____ 8. The implications of the Brexit vote also hung over the NATO summit meeting in Warsaw, where President Obama sought to dismiss fears that the   alliance could similarly unravel. But fissures among the members were evident over how to handle Russian aggression in Eastern Europe, the migrant crisis and terrorism fears. _____ 9. A lawsuit accusing Roger Ailes, the powerful Fox News chairman, of gender discrimination and sexual harassment sent shock waves through the media world. Gretchen Carlson, a former Fox host, says she was forced out of the network after rebuffing Mr. Ailes’s sexual advances  —   allegations he denies. Regardless of the legal outcome, the lawsuit signals a big shift for a network whose commentators have often rebuked ideas of political correctness and feminism. _____ 10. “The Night Of,” a new   series, debuts tonight on HBO (9 p. m. Eastern, with repeats at 10:30 p. m. and midnight). The show, depicting a fictitious murder case in New York City, follows the template of procedurals like “Law  Order” but philosophically lines up more with   stories like the podcast “Serial. ” If you tune in, our critic has some advice: “Mind your armrests when you watch it all unfold you may clutch them right through the upholstery. ” Here is a rundown of the latest films. _____ 11. Finally, NASA scientists are jubilant over the possibility that the next 20 months could crack open the mystery of the origins of the solar system. NASA’s Juno space probe completed a   nearly 1.   voyage and entered into orbit around Jupiter, thought to be the oldest planet. That triumph is just the latest for the world’s space programs, which include missions to Mars, the moon, Saturn, and Venus. Here’s a selection of the action on the final frontier. And here on Earth, have a great week. _____ Karen Workman contributed reporting.  _____ Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p. m. Eastern. Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s Evening Briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.