 (CNN) Days after a raid on an al Qaeda compound in Yemen led to the first US military combat death under Donald Trump, the leader of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula released an audio message taunting the new American President. In an   recording, AQAP leader Qassim   condemned the January 29 raid, saying, ”The new fool of the White House received a painful slap across his face.”  The message was released online Saturday and translated by the SITE Intelligence Group. In the recording, Rimi also claimed ”dozens of Americans were killed and wounded,” a number starkly at odds with the US account, which reported the death of one Navy SEAL, Chief Petty Officer William ”Ryan” Owens. Three additional SEALs also were wounded. Rimi acknowledged the deaths of 14 men and 11 women and children in the raid, a joint counterterrorism effort between the United States and United Arab Emirates. A senior US military official told CNN on Monday that Rimi was a target of the operation. The recording was released after last week’s raid. Trump is using Obama as a security blanket, Civilian deaths, Reportedly among the dead was the    the daughter of Anwar   the late   cleric who directed attacks against the United States. Awlaki was killed in 2011. Reprieve, a   nongovernmental organization, and a   human rights worker told CNN that at least 23 civilians were killed in the attack. ”When the Americans escaped, they dragged their killed and wounded, and they found no other alternative but to destroy their own planes so that it would not be proof of their scandal,” Rimi said. The senior US military official told CNN on Monday that intelligence collection wasn’t the only objective of the Yemen raid but that it had also targeted Rimi.  In the event Rimi wasn’t there, the US military believed it would find intelligence that would help lead to him, the official said.    the mission was not dependent on   being there, however, a senior US military official emphasized.  US Central Command, which oversees forces in the region, and the Pentagon are strongly denying   was an objective of the raid. On Tuesday, Pentagon spokesman Capt. Jeff Davis said, ”There was never any intention, hope, anticipation or plan that he would be part of this operation.” ”It wasn’t a   target mission,” Col. John Thomas told CNN, referring to operations aimed at killing or capturing terrorist leaders. Thomas added no hard intelligence indicated a ”high possibility” Rimi was at the compound on the night of the raid, saying that Navy SEALs would have captured any leaders of the al Qaeda affiliate, including Rimi, as part of an   operation.  ”Anyone found on site would have been taken,” Thomas said. NBC first reported that Rimi was a target of the raid.  The chance to take out such a pivotal member of al Qaeda may explain the large allocation of resources used in the mission. Military botches release of video seized in Yemen raid, Raid missteps, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula fighters detected the SEAL team before it reached its objective, leading to an intense firefight. Following news of the raid, the military had said the goal of the mission was to gather intelligence on the al Qaeda affiliate in Yemen.  On Friday, the Pentagon released clips from an al Qaeda training video seized during the raid but later pulled them because the video was nearly a decade old.  Government officials previously told CNN plans for the raid had been in the works for months and that Trump   the mission shortly after his inauguration. How Donald Trump’s first military action went from the Obama White House to deadly raid, The Pentagon said the battle resulted in the deaths of 14 al Qaeda fighters, including two AQAP leaders. Many observers have considered al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula among the most dangerous, if not the most dangerous, branch of al Qaeda since its formation in 2009.  Rimi reportedly became its leader following a 2015 drone strike that killed Nasir  .