 (CNN) Here is a look at the life of US Supreme Court justice, Neil Gorsuch. Personal:Birth date: August 29, 1967, Birth place: Denver, Colorado, Birth name: Neil McGill Gorsuch  Father: David Gorsuch, lawyer, Mother: Anne Gorsuch Burford, lawyer and administrator of the EPA for nearly two years under President Ronald Reagan, Marriage: Marie Louise Gorsuch, Children: Emma and Belinda, Education: Columbia University, B. A. 1988 Harvard Law School, J. D. 1991 Oxford University, D. Phil. 2004, Religion: Raised Catholic, attends Episcopal church, Other Facts:Last name is pronounced  . Gorsuch is an avid skier,   and hiker.  While at Columbia University,   a student publication called the Federalist Paper. According to a history of the paper, its original intent was to be ”content neutral.” It is now a satire publication. Gorsuch’s mother was the first woman to run the EPA.  Notable cases include Yellowbear v. Lampert, United States v. Nichols and include a ruling in favor of Hobby Lobby, which challenged the Affordable Care Act’s requirement to provide contraceptive coverage in employee health plans. The chain store objected on religious grounds.  His 2006 book, ”The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia,” explores the legalities and ethics of physician assisted suicide. He ultimately argues against ”death with dignity” laws.     Timeline:    Law clerk to Judge David Sentelle, of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.      Law clerk to Associate Supreme Court Justices Byron White and Anthony Kennedy.     Associate at Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans  Figel.     Partner at Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans  Figel.     Principal Deputy to the Associate Attorney General and Acting Associate Attorney General, US Department of Justice.     Judge on the US Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, nominated by President George W. Bush. January 31, 2017   Gorsuch is nominated by President Donald Trump to replace the late Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court.  February 8, 2017   In a meeting with Connecticut Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal, Gorsuch takes exception to Trump calling a federal judge in Seattle a ”  judge” after blocking the President’s travel ban. Gorsuch describes the president’s tweets about the judiciary as ”demoralizing” and ”disheartening.” March   2017   The Senate holds confirmation hearings for Gorsuch. On the final day of hearings, Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer says that Democrats will filibuster Gorsuch’s nomination.  April 6, 2017   The Senate triggers the   ”nuclear option,” lowering the vote threshold on nominations from 60 to 51, allowing Republicans to break a Democratic filibuster of Gorsuch.  April 7, 2017   The Senate confirms Gorsuch to the US Supreme Court with a vote of  .  April 10, 2017   Gorsuch’s ceremonial   is held at the White House.  