CLEVELAND  —   The Republican Party on Monday began debating what will become its 2016 platform. The draft that delegates will revise over the next two days will touch on a wide range of contentious issues  —   immigration, marriage, family values, criminal justice reform and policing. Some spots echoed the blunt,   style of the presumptive nominee, Donald J. Trump. Other spots seemed intended to serve as a softer, more welcoming alternative for the platform at the July   convention at Quicken Loans Arena. Some of the excerpts that were obtained by The New York Times: “The data and the facts lead to an inescapable conclusion: that every child deserves a married mom and dad. The reality remains that millions of American families do not have the advantages that come with that structure. We honor the courageous efforts of those who bear the burdens of parenting alone and embrace the principle that all Americans should be treated with dignity and respect. But respect is not enough. Our laws and our government’s regulations should recognize marriage as the union of one man and one woman and actively promote married family life as the basis of a stable and prosperous society. For that reason, as explained elsewhere in the platform, we do not accept the Supreme Court’s redefinition of marriage and we urge its reversal, whether through judicial reconsideration or a constitutional amendment returning control over marriage to states. ” “We emphatically support the original, authentic meaning of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. It affirmed that ‘No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination.’ . .. That same provision of the law is now being used by bureaucrats  —   and by the current president of the United States  —   to impose a social and cultural revolution upon the American people. Their agenda has nothing to do with individual rights it has everything to do with power. They are determined to reshape our schools  —   and our entire society  —   to fit the mold of an ideology alien to America’s history and traditions. Their edict to the states concerning restrooms, locker rooms and other facilities is at once illegal, ominous, and ignores privacy issues. We salute the several states which have filed suits against it. ” “Our party is the natural home for those who come in search of freedom and justice. We welcome all to the Great Opportunity Party. . .. We both encourage the preservation of heritage tongues and support English as the nation’s official language. . .. With all our fellow citizens we have watched, in anger and disgust, the mocking of our immigration laws by a president who made himself superior to the will of the nation. We stand with the victims of his policies, especially the families of murdered innocents. Illegal immigration endangers everyone, exploits the taxpayers, and insults all who aspire to enter America illegally. . .. That is why we have in the past demanded, at our vulnerable borders, construction of a physical barrier and, at all ports of entry, maximum vigilance. . .. The Department of Homeland Security must use its authority to keep dangerous aliens off our streets and to expedite expulsion of criminal aliens. Gang membership should be a deportable defense. ” ”The men and women of law enforcement  —   whether patrolling our neighborhoods or our borders, fighting organized crime or guarding against domestic terror  —   deserve our gratitude and our support. Their jobs are never easy, especially in crisis situations, and should not be made more difficult by political   from federal officials. The current administration’s lack of respect for them, from White House intervention in local arrests to the Attorney General’s present campaign of harassment against police forces around the country, has been unprecedented. . .. The power of career civil servants and political appointees to criminalize behavior is one of the worst violations of constitutional order perpetrated by the administrative state. We urge an immediate halt to the creation of new ‘crimes’ and a bipartisan presidential commission to purge the Code and the body of regulation of old ‘crimes.’ We call for a mens rea defense to protect Americans who, in violating a law, act unknowingly or without criminal intent. ”