WASHINGTON  —   Republican leaders asked the Justice Department on Monday to open a criminal investigation into whether Hillary Clinton lied to Congress in testimony last fall about her private email server, opening a new front in their   attacks on the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee. The Republican request, five days after the department closed a yearlong investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s handling of classified information in the emails, threatens to shadow her through the campaign and perhaps even into the White House if she is elected. In a letter Monday evening, House Republicans asked the Justice Department to determine whether Mrs. Clinton had “committed perjury and made false statements” during her appearance in October before a special House panel on the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya. The letter was signed by Representatives Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, who leads the Oversight Committee, and Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia, who leads the Judiciary Committee. The Justice Department declined to comment on the request. In a Twitter post, Brian Fallon, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign, called the Republican request “another futile, partisan attempt to keep this issue alive now that the Justice Dept has declared it resolved. ” Mrs. Clinton has said she regrets the decision to use a private email server for official communications as secretary of state, but she has defended the truthfulness of her public remarks. Legal analysts said that while it appeared unlikely the F. B. I. would ultimately find enough evidence to prosecute Mrs. Clinton on charges of lying to Congress, there might be enough to warrant opening an investigation. That alone could prove damaging to her campaign. Republicans have seized on a number of contradictions between what Mrs. Clinton told Congress about her private email server and what the F. B. I. found in its investigation. Mrs. Clinton told the House Select Committee on Benghazi, for instance, that she had turned over all her “ ” emails to the State Department and that “nothing” in the more than 60, 000 emails routed through her private server “was marked classified at the time I sent or received it. ” The F. B. I. investigation found that, in fact, there were “thousands” of   emails that her lawyers did not turn over, and that a handful of emails were marked classified at the time  —   although the State Department now says they should not have been. Still, it would be difficult for prosecutors to show that she intended to mislead Congress  —   a high legal bar  —   and that she should be criminally prosecuted for it. In eight hours of testimony during a marathon   session of the Benghazi committee, Mrs. Clinton was careful to hedge a number of answers about her email system by saying that she was basing her statements on information from her lawyers. “There’s not a snowball’s chance in hell that she’d be convicted of anything,” Rusty Hardin, a prominent Texas lawyer, said in a telephone interview. Mr. Hardin won an acquittal of the baseball pitcher Roger Clemens in 2012 when the Justice Department  —   acting on a similar referral from Congress  —   accused him of lying to Congress about his use of steroids. Mr. Hardin said that “somewhere in that 11 hours, there might be something that turned out wasn’t accurate, but she’d have to be certifiably insane to intentionally mislead them when there’s a criminal investigation going on. ” Michael Bopp, a Washington lawyer who has examined similar referrals from Congress, said that criminal charges against Mrs. Clinton appeared doubtful because of the difficulty in establishing whether she intended to lie to Congress, rather than simply making statements that later proved untrue. “I do think they’re going to feel obligated to open an investigation,” he said, “but it will be difficult to bring a case. ” Republicans sent a separate letter on Monday to James B. Comey Jr. the F. B. I. director, criticizing his decision not to seek criminal charges in the case and asking him to explain his thinking. For Democrats, the threat of another   investigation was more evidence of what they see as a partisan witch hunt meant to derail Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. “The F. B. I. said there was no case, but the Republicans just try and keep it alive,” Henry Waxman, a former Democratic congressman from California, said in a telephone interview. Mr. Waxman, who sought a Justice Department investigation in the Clemens case, predicted that prosecutors would decline to move forward against Mrs. Clinton and that Republicans would then “complain that the Justice Department is acting on political reasons. ” Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the   Democrat on the Oversight Committee, said that Republicans “are now completely unloading on Secretary Clinton with everything they’ve got  —   right before the presidential conventions. ” It is fairly unusual for members of Congress to refer cases to the Justice Department for criminal investigation. One of the last major referrals came in 2014, when the   House Ways and Means Committee voted to seek a criminal investigation against Lois Lerner, who was a central player in accusations that the Internal Revenue Service improperly targeted conservative nonprofit groups. After an investigation, the Justice Department declined last year to bring charges against her or anyone else. At a hearing last week before the House Oversight Committee, Mr. Comey was asked by Republicans whether Mrs. Clinton’s public statements  —   both to Congress and elsewhere  —   appeared to contradict what the F. B. I. had found. Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina, said to Mr. Comey that based on those contradictions, “isn’t it a logical assumption she may have misled Congress, and we need to look at that further?” “I can understand why people would ask that question,” Mr. Comey said. He drew guffaws from some Republicans when he said that while he believed Mrs. Clinton had testified truthfully to the F. B. I. in a closed interview this month, his investigators had not examined the separate question of whether she lied under oath to Congress in her testimony. Mr. Comey told Mr. Chaffetz that such an inquiry would require a formal referral from Congress. “You’ll have one,” Mr. Chaffetz told him. “You’ll have one in the next few hours. ” Like many things in Congress, the referral did not move quite as quickly as predicted. It took the Republicans two business days to put in their demand  —   which, for Congress, was still pretty fast.