JUBA, South Sudan  —   South Sudan slid rapidly closer to war on Monday as helicopter gunships pounded targets, two United Nations peacekeepers were killed, foreign governments scrambled to get their citizens out and worries grew about the fate of civilians trapped in crowded displaced persons camps. Gunfire rang out from different quarters, moving across Juba, the capital, like a thunderstorm, on and off, and witnesses said hundreds of people had been killed in the past three days. The fighting completely overshadowed the fifth anniversary this weekend of the country’s independence. In Juba, few celebrated because people were hunkered down indoors. South Sudan, the world’s youngest country and one of its poorest, cracked open into civil war in December 2013 after the nation’s two top politicians, President Salva Kiir and Vice President Riek Machar, bitterly split. Mr. Machar became the leader of a rebel group, and an estimated 50, 000 people have been killed since then. Each side has been blamed for widespread atrocities against civilians. But after a peace agreement, Mr. Machar returned to Juba in April and was sworn into his old position as Mr. Kiir’s vice president, essentially returning the country to the fragile political situation it was in before the war. The latest violence seems to be fueled by the same rivalry between the two men, who are from different ethnic groups and have tens of thousands of heavily armed young men following them. But there are also worries that the top leaders are losing control over their troops. “In the last 2 hrs, we went through heavy bombardments by Pres Kiir helicopters,” Mr. Machar wrote on Twitter on Monday. “This tells that our partner is not interested in peace. ” On Monday, United Nations officials said that the large displaced persons camps in and around Juba that house thousands of people had been shelled, killing at least two civilians and wounding dozens. It was not clear if the mortar or artillery shells that had crashed into the camps were stray shots or were deliberately aimed at civilians seeking refuge. United Nations officials said they were deeply concerned and were trying to secure the camps as best as possible. Mr. Kiir’s spokesman read a statement signed by the president calling for a unilateral   beginning at 6 p. m. local time, and he urged Mr. Machar to tell his fighters to stand down as well. “This is a unilateral ” said the spokesman, Ateny Wek Ateny. “The president has declared, and is also urging the leader of the former rebel movement, Dr. Riek, who is still the first vice president of the republic of South Sudan, to also do the same and cease the hostilities. ” More than 10, 000 people may have been displaced by the latest fighting, the United Nations said, adding to the 30, 000 or so people who fled their homes during previous rounds of violence in Juba. On Monday, the maternity wing of a hospital run by the International Medical Corps was hit by shelling, the group said in a statement, adding that it had treated 139 people since July 8 for injuries inside what is supposed to be a protected area. Secretary General Ban   called on Monday for an “immediate arms embargo” against South Sudan, saying that its rival leaders had “made a mockery” of the peace deal they signed only months ago. The ball is now in the Security Council’s court. The United States and China, the two countries with the greatest stakes in the country, have been lukewarm to the idea of an arms embargo in the past. A group of African nations on Monday nudged the Security Council to strengthen the mandate of the peacekeeping mission, in part by sending in more troops from the region and by creating what it called an “intervention brigade. ” He also called for the peacekeeping mission to be reinforced. There are 12, 000 soldiers and police officers on the ground now. Mr. Ban said government troops had effectively been blocked from leaving their bases. Contingency plans are being explored to bring in more peacekeepers from the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo, United Nations officials said Monday. The displaced persons camps are considered to be in danger. Thousands of people, mostly members of Mr. Machar’s ethnic group, the Nuer, are concentrated in rows of tents, easy targets for artillery. Many fled their homes in the past two years to escape ethnically targeted violence. Human rights groups say the violence between Nuer soldiers and those of the Dinka, Mr. Kiir’s group, has spawned a range of atrocities, including mass rape and the widespread killing of civilians. One senior Western official, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said the South Sudanese government was accusing Mr. Machar’s rebel forces of hiding in the displaced persons camps, which could be used as a pretext to storm them. The United States Embassy posted on its Facebook page: “The situation in Juba has significantly deteriorated. There is serious ongoing fighting between government and opposition forces, including near the airport, Unmiss locations, Jebel and elsewhere throughout Juba. ” (Unmiss is the acronym for the United Nations Mission in South Sudan.) The United States government is preparing to evacuate personnel from its embassy in Juba. Last week, when the fighting started, an American government car was sprayed by gunfire. The car was heavily armored, and no American employees were believed to have been hurt. In several past emergencies, United Nations peacekeepers in South Sudan have been outnumbered and did not stop massacres. In February, dozens of civilians were killed when soldiers overran a United Nations camp in Malakal, in the eastern part of the country. The two peacekeepers who were killed in the latest round of violence were believed to be Chinese. One was killed while sitting in an armored personnel carrier that was trying to protect a displaced persons camp. South Sudan’s recent history has been soaked in blood. Aid workers estimate that at least two million people have been killed in the past 30 years as South Sudan struggled against Sudan for independence and then factions in South Sudan turned on one another. In the beginning, Mr. Kiir and Mr. Machar fought together in the war for independence, but later Mr. Machar broke off and joined the   Sudanese government against Mr. Kiir and his rebels, who are not Arab. Mr. Machar eventually returned to the rebel fold and was a crucial figure in the South Sudanese government when it achieved independence five years ago. Many analysts said the mistrust between Mr. Kiir and Mr. Machar might run too deep to overcome. Western and African nations have exerted enormous pressure on the two to work together, even with the threat of sanctions and international isolation. The fighting began on Thursday over something relatively small. A group of soldiers loyal to Mr. Kiir stopped a vehicle carrying a group of soldiers loyal to Mr. Machar, a senior United Nations official said. An argument erupted over whether the vehicle could pass through a checkpoint, and guns were drawn. Shooting started, leading to rolling battles across Juba that continued through Monday. By Monday evening, the shooting had subsided, but aid officials said the two sides were using the lull to reposition their forces.