 (CNN) Another ePrix, another victory for Sebastien Buemi.  The Renault eDams driver made it three wins out of three for the   season at the Buenos Aires ePrix with another impressive drive at the Puerto Madero Street Circuit on Saturday.  The reigning world champion led for the majority of the   race after starting third on the grid behind pole sitter Lucas di Grassi    a first for the ABT Schaeffler Audi Sport driver    and Techeetah’s   Vergne.  Vergne seized the lead from di Grassi on the third lap but by lap six it was Buemi who had hit the front    and the Swiss driver never looked back.    The    took the checkered flag a comfortable three seconds clear of Vergne to seal a third consecutive win    the first driver to achieve the feat in Formula E    and his ninth overall in the   race series.  READ: How virtual racing breeds   success, READ: How ’humble’ star landed F1’s hottest drive  Buemi won the   in Hong Kong last October and then repeated the feat in Marrakech the following month.  This latest win gives the Swiss a maximum 75 points and a   cushion over nearest rival di Grassi.   But with nine races to go, Buemi is determined not to take his foot off the gas.  ”We need to build up some points . .. these things never last for ever,” Buemi said.  ”My team did a great job    let’s hope it continues for a few more races. At the end of the day I’m really happy.”  Di Grassi, who pushed Buemi all the way in last year’s championship, ended up claiming third to notch a 15th podium in 24 career starts in Formula E.   Vergne scored his first podium of the season with Buemi’s teammate Nico Prost coming home fourth followed by NextEV’s Nelson Piquet Jr. DS Virgin Racing’s Jose Maria Lopez, the only Argentine driver in the field, finished 10th to secure a point but there was disappointment for teammate Sam Bird. The Briton was defending the title he won last year but limped home last after suffering damage to the left rear of his car early on in the race.  Buenos Aires ePrix top 10 finishers:  1. Sebastien Buemi  2.   Vergne  3. Lucas di Grassi  4. Nico Prost  5. Nelson Piquet Jr.  6. Loic Duval  7. Daniel Abt  8. Jerome D’Ambrosio  9. Oliver Turvey  10. Jose Maria Lopez  You can watch highlights of the Buenos Aires ePrix on Supercharged’s February show    click this link to go to our motorsport page where you will find show times.   Round four of the   Formula E World Championship takes place in Mexico on April 1.  