Donald J. Trump raged at the leaked reports of his plan to choose Mike Pence, the governor of Indiana, as his running mate. In public, he denied having made a “final, final decision,” and postponed a planned event to unveil his choice. In a Thursday evening phone call with top aides, he asked for reassurance that Mr. Pence was really right for the job. In conversations late into the evening, Mr. Trump repeatedly hesitated over selecting Mr. Pence, according to people briefed on the tense deliberations, who insisted on anonymity to describe the confidential talks. Even as his emissaries reassured Mr. Pence, Mr. Trump fielded a   appeal from Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, another finalist, who once again pressed his own case. Advisers and family members stressed over and over to Mr. Trump that he was selecting a running mate to unite the Republican Party, not a new best friend. But before flying back from a   in California, Mr. Trump had settled on a plan for the morning. After having insisted that he would not make a Friday announcement out of respect for the attack in Nice, France, he would reverse course, appropriately enough, on Twitter, and name Mr. Pence as his choice on late Friday morning. In Mr. Pence, the presumptive Republican nominee has found a running mate with unimpeachable conservative credentials, warm relationships in Washington and a vast reservoir of good will with the Christian right. National Republican leaders, including the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, had pronounced Mr. Pence an excellent choice in advance of Mr. Trump’s announcement. Mr. Pence is viewed as a sturdy and dependable politician by Republicans in Indiana and Washington, and chided Mr. Trump for his proposal to bar Muslims from entering the United States, calling it “offensive and unconstitutional” in a Twitter post in December. But if selecting Mr. Pence would seem to be a concession to standard political imperatives, the move is also a gamble for Mr. Trump, who has typically valued his allies for their deep loyalty and public feistiness, rather than for the workmanlike political abilities that Mr. Pence embodies. Mr. Pence also has a record of   views on cultural issues that Mr. Trump has tended to play down in the presidential race. Mr. Pence has advocated defunding Planned Parenthood and restricting abortion rights, and he signed a religious exceptions law that critics said would lead to discrimination against gay men and lesbians. Mr. Pence was mobbed by reporters as he left the Intercontinental Hotel in Midtown Manhattan in the early afternoon, sporting a big smile. He pronounced himself “very humbled, very grateful” to be chosen. Asked what his message was to Indiana voters, Mr. Pence paused for a moment and stammered slightly. “We love Indiana, we love our country,” he said in a measured tone. “I couldn’t be more honored to have the opportunity to run with and serve with the next president of the United States. ” After leaving a meeting with Mr. Trump at Trump Tower later in the afternoon, Mr. Pence did not respond to questions about Mr. Trump’s reported vacillation over choosing him. Both the Trump team and Hillary Clinton’s campaign will scramble to define Mr. Pence over the next week. He is little known on the national scene, and a CBS News poll conducted before his selection found that nearly nine in 10 Americans did not have an opinion of him. Mrs. Clinton’s campaign attacked Mr. Pence on Friday as “the most extreme pick in a generation,” citing his views on abortion, gay rights, immigration and the minimum wage. John D. Podesta, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, said Mr. Trump had reinforced “some of his most disturbing beliefs by choosing an incredibly divisive and unpopular running mate known for supporting discriminatory politics and failed economic policies. ” Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence, who have no personal relationship predating the campaign, engaged in a whirlwind courtship over the last week, holding a rally together in Indiana and meeting several times in private. Mr. Trump spoke with Mr. Pence by phone on Wednesday night and signaled that he intended to choose him for vice president, a person familiar with the call said. But Mr. Trump wrestled on Thursday with the final arrangements for a rollout. He expressed fury to campaign aides over news reports that his advisers were informing political allies of the Indiana governor’s selection, and bristled at the idea that he was locked into the choice. In a phone call with members of the campaign leadership, Mr. Trump questioned whether Mr. Pence really was the right choice, and Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman, reiterated the case for choosing Mr. Pence, according to a person briefed on the call. Reached by phone on Friday, Mr. Manafort said Mr. Trump had never wavered on Mr. Pence once the decision was made. Any queries about Mr. Pence as a political choice, he added, simply reflected Mr. Trump’s loose conversational style. “Once he made the decision, nothing changed,” Mr. Manafort said. “Last night, the only issue from the time of the Nice tragedy to the time he got on a plane at around midnight was the details of how we rescheduled things. ” The newly forged ticket will face a grueling test in the coming days, as two very different political performers get accustomed to each other as teammates. The Trump campaign said both men would appear together at the Hilton Midtown in Manhattan on Saturday, and the campaign previously committed to a joint interview on “60 Minutes” on CBS. Their chemistry could determine just how extensively the two will campaign together during the summer and fall. According to Republicans briefed on the Trump campaign’s deliberations, Mr. Pence could conceivably travel the country on his own, shoring up support for Mr. Trump in conservative areas and   states, like North Carolina and Arizona, where Mr. Trump appears vulnerable. Within Mr. Trump’s inner circle, Mr. Pence is seen as a reliable sidekick, unlikely to cause trouble or upstage Mr. Trump in any way. But the relationship between Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence remains a work in progress, and they could well form a closer bond over the course of the campaign. Even as Mr. Pence endured as the clear favorite of Mr. Trump’s advisers, both Mr. Christie and Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, lingered as alternative possibilities. Allies of Mr. Christie were convinced, as late as Friday morning, that he was still in contention. When the choice was finally made, it caught at least one contender by surprise: Mr. Gingrich said in an email a few minutes before 11 a. m. that he had yet to hear directly from the Trump campaign about its decision. As the day unfolded, the campaign seemed ill prepared to trumpet the new partnership. A video released to highlight Mr. Pence was merely a   clip of his Tuesday rally with Mr. Trump in Indiana. By the middle of the evening on Friday, the home page of Mr. Trump’s campaign website included no mention of Mr. Pence. With his bid for national office, Mr. Pence also became the first Indiana governor to pull his name from the ballot so that he could be replaced by another candidate, who will be selected by the Indiana Republican Party. His   withdrawal from the governor’s race touched off a hectic scene in Indianapolis. After hours of anticipation at the statehouse there on Friday morning, Matt Morgan, a lawyer for Mr. Pence’s campaign for governor, wended his way through a gaggle of television cameras camped in the lobby of the Indiana secretary of state, holding the governor’s papers to withdraw from the race. He handed the papers to Connie Lawson, the secretary of state, and they were officially stamped at 11:05 a. m.