ST. PAUL  —   Turning into a parking lot without signaling. Failing to repair a broken seatbelt. Driving at night with an unlit license plate. Driving with tinted windows. In a   span, Philando Castile was pulled over by the police in the  . Paul region at least 49 times, an average of about once every three months, often for minor infractions. His mother, Valerie, who was often called on to help when her son’s car was impounded, believes that the police were stopping Mr. Castile not because of his driving but because of his race. “Driving while black,” she said. But Mr. Castile did not follow his mother’s advice to lodge an official complaint about biased policing, possibly because he drove for six consecutive years without a valid license, as officers would quickly discover after they pulled him over. It was also, his mother said, not his nature to complain. “He didn’t quite look at it as being profiled,” she said. Mr. Castile, a    school cafeteria worker, had regained his license and had been driving legally for three years when a Hispanic police officer, Jeronimo Yanez, pulled him over in a tiny suburb called Falcon Heights, Minn. on July 6, ostensibly for a cracked taillight. According to his girlfriend, Diamond Reynolds, who was in the passenger seat, Mr. Castile tried to tell Officer Yanez that he was carrying a gun with a legal permit. Mr. Castile was  reaching for his identification when the officer shot him several times, Ms. Reynolds said. A lawyer for Officer Yanez said that Mr. Castile had not followed his client’s commands and that Officer Yanez had been reacting to Mr. Castile’s gun when he fired. The episode, to many, is a heartbreaking illustration of the disproportionate risks black motorists face with the police. In the past two years, at least two other    —   in Cincinnati and in North Charleston, S. C.  —   were fatally shot by officers after being pulled over for minor traffic infractions. The killings have helped fuel a growing national debate over racial bias in law enforcement. “This is years and years of racial profiling,” said Rashad Turner, an organizer with the St. Paul chapter of Black Lives Matter. “Now it’s come to the death of a pillar in our community, a black man who was taking care of business. ” Traffic stops are how most citizens interact with law enforcement, and they tend to shape perceptions of the police. They rarely turn violent, but even peaceful encounters, like all but one of Mr. Castile’s, can lead to fines, searches, arrests and days of sitting in courtrooms that disproportionately affect poorer citizens. In the seven states that collect the most comprehensive data on traffic stops, analysts have found   disparities in how   drivers are treated. In two of the states, Connecticut and Rhode Island, changes in traffic enforcement followed. There has been no such change in Minnesota. A   study in 2003 found that minority drivers were more likely than white drivers to be both stopped and searched, even though officers found contraband more often when searching white drivers. Myron Orfield, a University of Minnesota professor who was a   of the study, said that the findings strongly suggested widespread racial and ethnic bias in traffic enforcement. More recently, a study by the American Civil Liberties Union found that   and Native Americans in Minneapolis were eight times more likely than whites to be charged with a   infraction, such as trespassing or loitering. Mr. Castile’s encounters with law enforcement began when he was a teenager but never went beyond traffic infractions or misdemeanor charges of marijuana possession, which were dismissed. Nor was there ever any indication that he had been combative with the police. When a St. Paul officer pursuing a drug suspect stopped Mr. Castile’s car in 2005, the officer wrote that he knew him and that “normally Castile is very cooperative and friendly. ” In his first six years as a driver, Mr. Castile received nearly two dozen tickets, mostly for driving without insurance or with a suspended license. He managed to keep getting his license reinstated until late 2007, when it was revoked for a lack of insurance. Maria Mitchell, an assistant public defender in the county that includes Minneapolis, said Mr. Castile was typical of   drivers who lose their licenses, then become overwhelmed by snowballing fines and fees. “Clients just start to feel hopeless,” she said. “Kind of like when your credit gets out of control. ” St. Paul has limited public transportation, activists said, and Mr. Castile’s car allowed him to reach his job with the St. Paul school district, which hired him shortly after he graduated from high school. In the six years after he lost his license, Mr. Castile was pulled over another 21 times, repeatedly convicted of driving with an invalid license, fined and ordered not to drive. Amid the string of traffic stops was one in Maplewood, another suburb of St. Paul, one afternoon in 2008. Mr. Castile had driven a friend’s car, a 1997 black Mercury Marquis, to a Taco Bell for lunch. An officer pulled him over for tinted windows. The police report gives the following account: Mr. Castile said he had a license but could not produce it or proof of insurance. He was sweating heavily, appeared “very nervous” and fumbled for his wallet. The officer spotted a small bag of marijuana in the ashtray, ordered Mr. Castile out of the car, handcuffed him, undid his belt, loosened his pants and searched inside. The officer found only $377 in the pants pockets  —   which Mr. Castile said had come from cashing his paycheck. Mr. Castile was arrested and accused of possession of less than   of an ounce of marijuana, a charge later dismissed, and driving with a revoked license, for which he was convicted. Mr. Castile’s sister Allysza said her brother’s love of     cars, like the 1997 Oldsmobile he bought for $275 and was driving when he was shot, attracted police officers’ attention. Ms. Castile was pulled over three times when she borrowed his car, she said, because “those are mostly stereotyped as drug   cars. ” “I told him several times, ‘We need to go to the police station and report this, because this ain’t right,’” Valerie Castile, his mother, said in an interview. “Every time you get in that car and leave out the door you come back with another ticket, or they take it from him and I have to go get it. ” By   Mr. Castile had at last set his driving affairs in order. He had passed a new driver’s test. He had purchased car insurance. That year and the next, he paid off at least $1, 200 in fines, although he apparently still owed about $500. He had some extra cash because in 2014 the school district promoted him to cafeteria supervisor, a job that paid $19. 31 an hour. Mr. Castile had received only one ticket, for speeding, in nearly three years when Officer Yanez and another officer pulled him over in the early evening near the state fairgrounds in Falcon Heights, a spot where residents say traffic stops are common. The Police Department for the neighboring town of St. Anthony, which patrols Falcon Heights and two other suburbs, had declined to participate in the state’s 2003 study of racial profiling in traffic stops, even though the decision meant forgoing police cameras and other incentives, Professor Orfield said.   make up at most 8 percent of the residents in the cities policed by the department. But they amounted to 19 percent of those who received tickets and 41 percent of those arrested there last year, statistics show. Peter Lindstrom, the mayor of Falcon Heights, said residents were stunned and saddened that Mr. Castile had been killed in a town where the biggest controversies tended to be about issues like whether to build a sidewalk. At a somber City Council meeting on Wednesday, resident after resident, nearly all of them white, demanded changes in policing practices. One of them, Chuck Johnson, said, “I don’t want this to be done in my name in this town anymore. ”