 (CNN) A   combat jet that has long been hailed as the most successful   aircraft in US history may have finally met its match. It is not an enemy plane that is threatening to end the   Eagle’s   reign as king of the skies, but rather the US Air Force’s latest   efforts.   Air Force generals floated the idea of retiring hundreds of   during a hearing before the House Armed Services subcommittee last week, pitching a plan that included replacing the current fleet of   fighters with an upgraded version of the   Fighting Falcon. The plan would include replacing 236   and D models by dipping into the Air Force’s inventory of nearly 1, 200  .  The future of the   Strike Eagle, which is primarily used in ground attack missions, was not discussed specifically during the hearing.  While the     is designed with specific capabilities to   opposing planes in    combat, Lockheed Martin’s   is a   aircraft, built to carry out a variety of missions.  If the   is retired, Air Force top brass told lawmakers that they would outfit the   with new radar systems, prepping it to ”serve the same function as the  .” ”There are capabilities we can add and provide on the   that will [fill] a gap as we go into the future. Overall, our readiness and our protection of the US will change, but I think overall, we will be OK,” said Lt. Gen. Scott Rice, director of the Air National Guard.  But several subcommittee members expressed concerns around whether the   can adequately fill the shoes of a tactically specialized jet that boasts more than 100 aerial victories. ”If we’re talking about fourth generation assets, you’ve got the   which prior to the   was the best at    . .. the   is an incredible, versatile,   little bit less expensive sort of decathlete,” said Arizona Republican Rep. Martha McSally, pressing Air Force leaders on the proposal.  ”Comparing the capabilities side by side . ..   doesn’t bring the same expertise as the   in  ” she added. Both Rice and Air Force Director of Current Operations Maj. Gen. Scott West confirmed that the proposal was under consideration but also stressed that nothing was final, calling the option ” .” The idea also caught some of the subcommittee members   as McSally said she hadn’t heard about plans to retire the   until told during last week’s hearing.  Despite its long history of service, the   continues to see deployments to some of the most tense regions of the world.  Last year, the Air Force sent squadrons of   to Iceland, the Netherlands and Finland to reassure NATO allies after Russian military intervention in Ukraine. And 50 Eagles are stationed at Kadena Air Base in Japan as a key part of the US   strategy in the Pacific.  The Air Force has turned its attention toward planning its budget for the 2019 fiscal year, but Rice told lawmakers that he did not expect a decision to be made regarding the fate of the   until 2020.  The major selling point of dumping the   in favor of the   hinges on cost.  Parring down the number of different aircraft models in the fleet would increase combat and maintenance efficiency while providing added budget flexibility, West said.  That flexibility could be used to invest in more modern weapons systems as the US technology advantage over potential adversaries continues to shrink.  ”I think sooner is better given the investments being made by China and Russia are, in particular, pretty significant,” he said.  It remains unclear how a plan to retire the   would impact the Air Force’s   initiative to invest $12 billion in revamping the   fleet with upgraded radar technology, infrared search and track, and electronic warfare capabilities.  These upgrades are expected to extend the life of the   through 2040.  The Air Force initially planned to replace the entire   fleet with the     Raptor, but production of the stealthy aircraft was halted in 2009 and only 188 of the 749   planned by the Pentagon were ever produced. Recent pilot shortages, budget cuts and delays to new platforms, such as the the   Joint Strike Fighter, have prompted Air Force brass to call the current force the ”smallest, oldest and least ready” in history.