An appeals court on Thursday upheld the ban on Russia’s track and field team from the Rio Olympics, empowering sports organizations to discipline other Russian teams after revelations of a   doping scheme. The International Association of Athletics Federations, track and field’s global governing body, had barred Russia’s team from competing at the Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro next month because of an elaborate cheating plot, which investigators confirmed this week with forensic evidence and computer records. The Court of Arbitration for Sport, the final arbiter on global sports disputes, to which Russia had appealed, said that the penalty was legally sound. With just over two weeks until the opening ceremony in Rio, the International Olympic Committee had deferred the decision of whether to take aggressive measures to individual sports federations like the I. A. A. F. After detailed proof of   cheating was produced this week in a report by the World   Agency, Olympic officials said they would “explore legal options,” but they also indicated that they would await the arbitration court’s decision before taking action. Thursday’s ruling, affirming the track and field organization’s authority over a nation’s Olympic participation, enables the I. O. C. to pass responsibility for the Russian doping crisis to the 28 individual sports federations that participate in the Summer Games. Olympic officials are set to convene on the matter Sunday. Among the options ahead: Olympic officials could call on the other individual sports federations  —   such as those in gymnastics and weight lifting  —   to follow the I. A. A. F.’s lead and engage in a    review of Russian athletes registered to compete in Rio. Or a blanket ban of the Russian Federation could be adopted. In response to Thursday’s decision, Sebastian Coe, head of the track and field organization, said that while he was “thankful” the ban had been upheld, he was not celebrating. “I didn’t come into this sport to stop athletes from competing,” he said in a statement. The appeals court said that because of the urgent nature of the case, it was issuing only its verdict, which was unanimous. Its full decision, including the grounds for the verdict, will be issued as soon as possible, the court said. “In my view, certainly, this decision absolutely violates the rights of clean athletes, honest athletes, and sets a collective responsibility precedent,” Vitaly Mutko, Russia’s sports minister, said at a news conference in Moscow. In instituting its ban, the I. A. A. F. invited Russian athletes living outside the country who had been regularly tested for drugs to petition to compete individually officials said they had offered that option in part to protect against court challenges. So far, two Russian track and field athletes have been cleared to compete in Rio: Darya Klishina, a long jumper, and Yuliya Stepanova, a   runner, both of whom live in the United States. The I. A. A. F. said that the exempted athletes would not compete in Rio under the Russian flag but rather as unaffiliated athletes. Russia won 18 medals in track and field, including eight golds, at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. Whether the country’s medal aspirations in other sports in Rio are squashed, too, could soon be determined by other sports federations. Those federations, however, have little expertise in adjudicating doping cases, and in the political world of sports, some have strong ties to Russia. Last week, the president of the international swimming federation, Julio C. Maglione of Uruguay, traveled to Moscow to meet with Mr. Mutko. Four days later, as antidoping officials indicated that they were preparing to request that the I. O. C. ban Russia’s entire Olympic team, the swimming federation released a statement saying it was “concerned by the premature calls” to keep Russia out of the Games. Sports officials and antidoping authorities alike have agitated for strong action from the I. O. C. in recent days, pointing out that the Olympic organization had in its power a drastic option that would seem to be beyond legal challenge: banning the whole Russian delegation from the Games. “It’s really important for the I. O. C. to defend its integrity and make a strong statement now by suspending the Russian National Olympic Committee,” said Max Cobb, president of the United States Biathlon Association. Mr. Cobb added that he thought the evidence presented this week condemned not only the Russian sports ministry but also the Olympic committee. Yuri Nagornykh, Russia’s deputy minister of sport, who was identified by investigators as a main coordinator of the scheme, is also an executive board member of the Russian Olympic organization. On Monday, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said he had provisionally suspended Mr. Nagornykh and other implicated officials. For the I. O. C. to wait until the arbitration decision was announced on Thursday, Mr. Cobb said, was “unnecessary stalling. ” More than a dozen national antidoping organizations  —   including those in Canada, Japan, New Zealand and Norway  —   echoed that sentiment Wednesday, sending a letter to the I. O. C. that argued for denying all Russian athletes entry in the Olympics, according to the correspondence, which was obtained by The New York Times. “This is a responsibility that cannot and should not be delegated by the I. O. C. ,” the letter said. Anything less than a full ban, the officials wrote, “is not a reasonable and proportionate measure to protect the value of the Olympic promise given the circumstances caused by the   doping program that corrupted the Olympic Games. ” The allegations of cheating have extended to the last two Olympic Games, in London in 2012 and in Sochi, Russia, in 2014. Others, however  —   including the Association of Summer Olympic International Federations  —   have spoken up for “individual justice” rather than broad bans, expressing subtle support for Russia, along with a desire to see specific violators punished. Track and field officials and antidoping authorities have spent the year monitoring   efforts in Russia. They reported that, as recently as last month, Russian athletes continued to evade testing with the help of sports officials. Such conduct extended across disciplines, inquiries commissioned by WADA found. According to Richard McLaren, a Canadian lawyer who led the most recent inquiry and wrote this week’s report, Russia’s antidoping lab covered up drug violations affecting “virtually all sports” since at least 2011. Mr. McLaren is a longtime global sports arbitrator who decided several   cases that probably figured into the deliberations that led to Thursday’s decision, made by three arbitrators, from Britain, Italy and the United States. The arbitration court, which has its headquarters in a chateau in Lausanne, Switzerland, has for decades had supreme authority in international sports disputes its decisions can be overruled by the Swiss Federal Tribunal on the basis of a procedural error only. The court’s independence and monopolistic authority have been challenged over the years, with athletes, who are required to sign arbitration agreements, arguing that the forum favors the interests of sports organizations. The court was created by sports federations and the I. O. C. and it receives financing from them. The president of the court’s parent organization, the International Council of Arbitration for Sport, which appoints arbitrators to the court, is John D. Coates of Australia, an I. O. C. executive board member who participated in the committee’s urgent meeting on Tuesday to discuss possible courses of action the I. O. C. might take against Russia. Before evidence made public this week corroborated a  ’s account of Russia’s elaborate Olympic cheating scheme, Thomas Bach, the president of the I. O. C. had said that if the allegations proved true, they would present a “shocking new dimension in doping” and an “unprecedented level of criminality,” for which he would have zero tolerance.