Following are excerpts from the book “Powerhouse: The Untold Story of Hollywood’s Creative Artists Agency,” by James Andrew Miller, to be published on Aug. 9 by Custom House, an imprint of William Morrow. Creative Artists Agency, dominant for decades in the entertainment business, stepped into the sports world in 2006 with the creation of CAA Sports. Many competitors regarded, and still regard, that foray as a disaster, a loss leader, or both. Even inside C. A. A. there was debate about whether the agency’s move onto the playing fields of the world reflected strategic genius or hubristic disaster. But both C. A. A. and TPG, the   firm that owns more than half the company, see CAA Sports as a new classic among growth stories, pointing to prosperous property sales with the New York Yankees, the San Francisco 49ers and FC Barcelona to talent and athlete marketing hits like Cristiano Ronaldo, J. J. Watt, and Dwyane Wade and to such media advisory successes as the PGA, the Chicago Cubs and Riot Games, among many others. In 2015, for the first time in C. A. A. ’s history, sports was the agency’s top revenue producer  —   surpassing TV and film  —   bringing in more than $215 million. In other words, the revenue baton has been passed, and with it, perhaps the very identity of C. A. A. itself. After advising the International Olympic Committee on   deals for the 2012 London Games and the 2014 Sochi Games, CAA Sports moved on to a fully American icon. The New York Yankees became the department’s first large institutional client when, in October 2007, it reached a stadium sponsorship deal for the new Yankee Stadium that would open in April 2009. In total, C. A. A. sold more than $700 million in sponsorships for the Yankees. Sponsorship partners included ATT, Delta and Pepsi. Back in 2010, LeBron James had asked his agent Leon Rose and C. A. A. to hire young Rich Paul, whom James had met in Cleveland while Paul was a teenager. For James, the move was reminiscent of what he had done years before with his childhood friend Maverick Carter. James, who was only 20, gave Carter, 23, the keys to managing his empire. By most accounts, Paul was no charity hire but rather a solid professional, and Rose was happy to bring him into the fold. The C. A. A. consultant William Wesley, flamboyantly known as World Wide Wes, was a close friend of Rose’s and heavily involved in the recruitment of athletes as a consultant for C. A. A. All might have been well, but Wesley and Paul operated on different circuits. Tension continued to build between them to the point where Rose decided the ticking bomb must be defused. In London at the 2012 Olympics, Rose had Wes and Paul join him for a lunch and a frank discussion designed to clear the air, with Rose later telling colleagues he felt better about the situation. And so he did  —   until the night of Sept. 12, less than one month later, when it was abruptly announced that Paul was leaving C. A. A. Rose, shocked and hurt, had come to think of Paul not just as a protégé but as a friend and thus didn’t see why Paul failed to give him warning  —   or even tell him personally that he’d decided to leave. The bigger surprise would come just 24 hours later, when LeBron James sent notice that he, too, was leaving the agency  —   and would join Paul’s new firm, Klutch Sports, to be based in Cleveland. The move confirmed a shift in James’s business strategy since joining the Heat. In 2011, he’d struck a deal with Fenway Sports Group (F. S. G.) led by the Red Sox owner John Henry and chairman Tom Werner, to partner with his own sports marketing firm LRMR Branding  Marketing and oversee the firm’s global marketing opportunities and commercial interests. James also received a minority stake in Liverpool, the soccer club owned by FSG. According to The Wall Street Journal, it was the first time that a professional athlete at his peak had invested in a team that in terms of prominence and prestige ranked among the most elite and formidable in the world. One year after the parting of LeBron James and C. A. A. Maverick Carter approached the agency on behalf of his client to see if there was any interest in handling James for television and movie opportunities  —   everything not covered by his N. B. A. contract or endorsement deals. The deal would be exclusively about getting James into show business. C. A. A. said no. James signed with WME the next day.   …     C. A. A. Sports made an initial foray into European soccer in 2009 when it became involved with international athlete and property representation, along with corporate consulting and media rights, but the big move occurred on Oct. 1, 2012, when CAA Eleven, a   subsidiary of C. A. A. was awarded the contract over dozens of other companies to sell broadcast rights for the latest cycle of UEFA’s national team competitions  —   the 2016 UEFA European Championship Qualifiers, along with the 2016 UEFA European Championship, and the European qualifiers for the 2018 FIFA World Cup. The UEFA deal garnered much attention. Previously, the organization had only sold off rights to matches individually. Now, for the first time ever, they centralized the media and the sponsorship rights to hundreds of matches. Those broadcast rights could be extraordinarily lucrative given the sport’s global footprint. A match between Germany and France isn’t just sold in those two countries but to territories around the world, and if you wanted to show that game in Argentina, South Africa, Japan, or even the United States, then your network and your money were headed to C. A. A. The deal called for C. A. A. to take the risk on overhead, in exchange for a range of commissions (roughly between 3 and 5 percent) based on revenue performance. Recently, the agency was given even more inventory to sell, and C. A. A. ’s commissions from the deal are already in the tens of millions. On June 30, 2015, David O’Connor was announced as   executive of the Madison Square Garden Company, leaving C. A. A. the following month to begin his new position. In his new deal with MSG, O’Connor was awarded $40 million in stock grants to compensate for the equity in C. A. A. that he’d left behind, vesting in just three years. His deal at MSG also came with a   contract, and if he serves all five, his total compensation will be around $115 million, with only a portion of that tied to stock performance.