On the final night of the Democratic National Convention, a full slate of speakers, including state leaders, some Republicans and her daughter, Chelsea Clinton, preceded Hillary Clinton’s appearance. The highlights (and our longer analysis): • Mrs. Clinton, wearing a white suit and a wide smile, accepted the Democratic nomination for president shortly before 11:00 Eastern time. “It is with humility, determination and boundless confidence in America’s promise,” she said over a roaring crowd, “that I accept your nomination for President of the United States. ” She welcomed the night’s historic nature, invoking her mother and her daughter, and tried to shed light on the motivation of her life’s work. But mostly, she used a nearly hourlong speech to lay out a vision of America   in opposition to the one Mr. Trump put forth last week in Cleveland. To Mr. Trump’s promise that “I, alone, can fix it,” Mrs. Clinton countered that “none of us can raise a family, build a business, heal a community or lift a country totally alone. ” _____ • Chelsea Clinton, who grew up in the national spotlight, introduced her mother  —   “my wonderful, thoughtful, hilarious mother”  —   in starkly personal terms. Recounting notes left when her mother was out of town, conversations at the dinner table, and even Mrs. Clinton’s failed 1994 health care fight, Ms. Clinton said she is often asked how does her mother “keep going amid the sound and the fury of politics?” “Here’s how,” she answered: “It’s because she never, ever forgets who she’s fighting for. ” _____ • John R. Allen, the retired   Marine Corps general who commanded American forces in Afghanistan and elsewhere, delivered a thundering endorsement of Mrs. Clinton because, he said, “the stakes are enormous” not to. Flanked by fellow veterans, Mr. Allen said that Mrs. Clinton would use all the “instruments of American power” to defeat ISIS, strengthen NATO, and honor its treaties. “Without any hesitation or reservation,” Hillary Clinton will be “exactly, exactly the kind of    America needs,” Mr. Allen said. With Mrs. Clinton as commander in chief, “our international relations will not be reduced to a business transaction. ” _____ • “I’m Michael Jordan, and I’m here with Hillary,” Kareem   the N. B. A. hall of famer, deadpanned as he appraised a perplexed convention hall. “I said that because I know that Donald Trump couldn’t tell the difference,” he clarified, with a smile. Speaking more seriously, Mr.   who is Muslim, warned that Mr. Trump’s proposed ban on Muslim immigrants amounted to the kind of tyranny warned of by the country’s founders. _____ • Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio brought attention back to manufacturing and trade policy, arguing that Donald J. Trump was not the authentic champion of American workers he claimed to be. Highlighting the foreign provenance of many of Mr. Trump’s products and the clients and investors his businesses have harmed, Mr. Brown said the only thing Mr. Trump’s business record made certain was that “Donald Trump looks out only for Donald Trump. ” _____ • The night’s final speaking slot for a   went to Representative Xavier Becerra of California, the son of Mexican immigrants. Reiterating many of the night’s themes, he urged those listening to walk with Mrs. Clinton as she had with them. “Now is not the time to turn back. ” _____ • Republicans for Clinton? The night featured at least two: Doug Elmets, an aide who worked in Ronald Reagan’s White House, and Jennifer Pierotti Lim, the director of health policy at the U. S. Chamber of Commerce. They had a message for fellow Republicans dissatisfied with Mr. Trump: Mrs. Clinton may not be perfect but her hands are steady. “I knew Ronald Reagan. I worked for Ronald Reagan,” Mr. Elmets said. “Donald Trump, you are no Ronald Reagan. ” _____ • Some Democratic women of the Senate took turns testifying to Mrs. Clinton’s work and character  —   often in highly personal terms. Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri recalled calls from Mrs. Clinton this year when she was diagnosed with cancer. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York talked of how Mrs. Clinton had inspired her to enter public life. And Senator Barbara Boxer of California remembered the “workhorse, humble, steady and ready to learn” who arrived in the Senate in 2001. _____ • Representative Joaquin Castro of Texas, a rising star within the Democratic Party, spoke of his grandmother, a Mexican immigrant who settled in Texas as a young girl. “She wasn’t a rapist or a murderer,” he said, referencing Donald J. Trump’s contentious remarks about why he would build a wall along the border with Mexico. “She was a    orphan. ” _____ • Invoking the memory of his father and the record of his home state, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo of New York tried to paint a picture of the party as one of “dreamers” and “doers. ” Republicans under Mr. Trump, on the other hand, he said, “fan the flames of fear and offer a scapegoat” for the country’s problems: notably, those different from themselves. “Fear is a powerful weapon. It can excite and motivate,” Mr. Cuomo said. But, “fear will never build a nation. ”