One suspect was in custody and a “second potential suspect’’ was arrested on Friday in the fatal shooting of a San Diego police officer and the wounding of another, the police chief said. The chief, Shelley Zimmerman, said the shooting occurred about 11 p. m. on Thursday, shortly after the two officers, members of the   squad, reported that they had stopped a man in the southeast part of the city. Almost immediately, the officers called for emergency assistance. Officer Jonathan DeGuzman, a   veteran of the department, was rushed to hospital in a police vehicle but later died, Chief Zimmerman said. Officer DeGuzman was married with two children. The other officer, Wade Irwin, a   veteran, underwent surgery. He was in serious condition but was expected to recover. Investigators had not been able to speak with Officer Irwin by Friday afternoon, and some of the circumstances of the shooting were still being investigated, including whether it took place during a vehicle or pedestrian stop. “It happened extremely quickly,” Chief Zimmerman said. The officers were in uniform, wearing bulletproof vests and body cameras, and were in a marked police car. The chief declined to release information about the ballistic evidence. One suspect, identified as Jesse Gomez, 52, was in critical condition with a gunshot wound to his upper torso. The police were investigating whether the man was a gang member, the chief said. A second man, Marcus Antonio Cassani, was arrested after police surrounded a nearby home, but Chief Zimmerman said investigators had not determined whether he was involved in the shooting. The shooting came as law officers around the country remained on alert after five officers were fatally shot in Dallas and three in Baton Rouge, La. this month. The attacks have set off a period of fear, anguish and confusion among the nation’s 900, 000 state and local law enforcement officers. Shootings were the main cause of officer deaths in the first six months of this year, the first time in three years that   fatalities did not top the list, according to a report published this week by the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund. On average, two officers died on duty each week this year, half killed by gunfire. “It is tragic for everyone,” said Chief Zimmerman, speaking about the shootings in San Diego and the national toll. The United States attorney general, Loretta E. Lynch, mentioned the San Diego shooting on Friday in her opening remarks to a gathering of law enforcement and emergency personnel at a Methodist church in Baton Rouge. “I know that this community, more than most, knows exactly what those families are feeling at this moment, knows exactly what the San Diego Police Department is going through at this moment,” Ms. Lynch said. The mayor of San Diego, Kevin Faulconer, said in a statement that the city was grieving. ”Violence against the men and women who wear the badge is violence against us all,” Mr. Faulconer said. “I ask all San Diegans and all people across our nation to join together in support of our officers who courageously protect our communities. We need them and they need us. ” He also asked for prayers for the wounded officer. Chief Zimmerman said investigators had no motive for the shooting. Early on Friday, yellow police tape marked off the scene of the shooting. A man and a woman, who had been at a   gym nearby, looked on from the perimeter, unable to reach the home where they have lived for two years. Chief Zimmerman described Officer DeGuzman as a loving husband who often talked about his family and cared deeply about his job. “Last night he lost his life trying to make a positive difference,” she said.