One midnight near semester’s end on the skirts of Harvard Yard, music thumped and laughs rang out from a colonnaded,   mansion, the sort usually seen in Hollywood fantasies about fraternal campus life. But it was the scene outside that suggested something other than a frat party. This was the headquarters of the Fly, an exclusive men’s fellowship known here as a final club. At its side door stood a   man in tuxedo, checking names against a list of the lucky invited. Eager young women in   queued up. Except one. A lone girl sat on the front steps, bathed by yellow light spilling from windows in which the silhouettes of revelers held pool cues and beer bottles. She was hunched over, legs flopped on either side, face in hands. She had managed to get in but was “kicked out,” she wailed into a phone pressed against her ear. Her cheeks were reddened, streaked with mascara. Now, she sobbed, “they won’t let me in!” A group of young men stood in the doorway, hands shoved in pockets, chatting. Every so often they cast an awkward glance at the young woman. The Fly is one of six remaining   final clubs. They are, if not the hub, the apex of social life at Harvard  —   upscale surrogates for those classic centers of college merriment, sororities and fraternities. On any given weekend, a string of young women spools out onto Mount Auburn Street in front of one or another of the club porticos. And while there might be legitimate reasons to exclude them, from intoxication to overcrowding, the crying woman on the stairs underscored the power the final clubs have over the student psyche. Entree can feel like belonging, rejection like a scarlet F. Some students describe final clubs as nothing more than fun outlets on a campus with few options for unsupervised play. To those who join they offer a   group of friends and a refuge from the high pressure of the Harvard course load. After graduation, members enjoy access to an extensive alumni network. But to many students on the outside, the clubs are laden with a legacy of   snobbishness. As the writer Kenneth Auchincloss referred to them in a 1958 dispatch in The Harvard Crimson: Final clubs are gathering places of the “St. Grottlesex crop,” an amalgamation of the names of several elite East Coast boarding schools, who “look to the Clubs as centers for privacy and ‘’ cut off from the hectic University by their locked front doors, their aura of secrecy, and a generally shared feeling of superiority. ” Today, that description is perpetuated by unwritten codes on who may pass through their doors and who may join. The elaborate courtship of the desirable can begin with an engraved invitation slipped under a dorm room door to “punch”  —   a selection process that continues with a series of outings and culminates in a   dinner feting the few who make it through. To many students, the clubs remain potent symbols of privilege, anachronistic and out of place on an increasingly diverse campus. These clashing perceptions have roiled the community over the past year, with the administration falling squarely into the camp that final clubs and all they represent, wittingly or not, do not belong at Harvard. It is a   stance that has resulted in periodic action by the university  —   and counterpunches by the clubs. But this year’s iteration of the battle, led by Rakesh Khurana, dean of the college, carries a particularly big stick: Starting with the class of 2021, members will be barred from leadership roles in   clubs and athletics and from receiving recommendations from the dean for top scholarships like the Rhodes and Fulbright. And the conversation has been expanded to include all   clubs unaffiliated with the university, including five   final clubs, four sororities and five fraternities. The decision stands to have ramifications beyond Cambridge, Mass. by ratifying a movement that is taking hold across the country: to make student social life more inclusive. “The discriminatory membership policies of these organizations have led to the perpetuation of spaces that are rife with power imbalances,” Dr. Khurana wrote in a letter to Harvard’s president, Drew Gilpin Faust, in May. “The most entrenched of these spaces send an unambiguous message that they are the exclusive preserves of men. In their recruitment practices and through their extensive resources and access to networks of power, these organizations propagate exclusionary values that undermine those of the larger Harvard College community. ” In an interview a few days after graduation, Dr. Khurana softened his rhetoric. “It’s not our intention to make the students feel persecuted,” he said. “I want to just say to our students: The issue is not our students. I think they are people of immense character and integrity. We are trying to create the conditions to allow our students to become the kind of people they say they want to become in their admissions essays. ” The push to end, or at least reform, final clubs is also informed by the urgent discussion nationwide of sexual assault on campus. A 2015 survey of several universities by the Association of American Universities found that by the time they were seniors, 47 percent of Harvard women who had participated in final club activities had experienced unwanted sexual touch, compared with 31 percent schoolwide. Some clubs have complained that the university has not presented them with any documented cases of sexual assaults on their premises. But a subsequent analysis of the data by the university’s Task Force on the Prevention of Sexual Assault linked the solution to the final club question. The clubs perpetuate misogynistic attitudes, according to the task force report, particularly through “parties at which the only nonmembers in attendance were women selected mainly by virtue of their physical appearance” and party themes and invitations that have “reinforced a sense of sexual entitlement. ” Richard T. Porteus, class of ’78 and president of the Fly’s graduate body, is one of the few final club members to publicly challenge the college. “If Harvard really were to become serious about preventing sexual assault rather than using it as a way to push an ideological stance,” he told me, “they’d drill down to find out exactly what is occurring rather than trying to throw a moral pall over any man or women who belongs to these clubs. ” To charges that the men cast themselves in the role of patriarchal gatekeeper, Mr. Porteus made a pragmatic argument: The clubhouses have limited capacity, and   protects members and guests, particularly women. And the doorkeeper, a   staff member and parent of a college student, can assess the sobriety of guests, entering and departing. In a stab at the dean, he concluded: “What is more patriarchal than an older male authority figure deciding for young women where and how they should spend their personal time when  ?” The clubs have adamantly defied demands to become coeducational not for exclusivity’s sake, Mr. Porteus said, but out of a belief that what a   space offers is of deep value. “Whether you’re a man or a woman or you identify in any other way, you’re curious to learn from others of the gender you identify with,” he said. “That is why   entities exist, from Wellesley College to the Boy Scouts of America. ” “It is not,” he said, “a rejection of anyone. ” • Walking into the Fly, it’s easy to sense the power and lineage of the men who came before: the lingering aroma of smoke that must have taken decades to accumulate, the large wooden table in the   library, where students have studied for at least a hundred years in this, their final social club before graduation (having already passed through a freshman club and a waiting club). Up the stairwell is a gallery of memories  —   photos of famous members like Franklin Delano Roosevelt and members killed in war  —   leading to the trophy room. This is a space clearly created by young men for young men. Animal busts decorate the walls. There are large speakers for music. Billiard tables have been topped with glass, good for table tennis and beer pong. Each club is known for a particular personality: The Fly is Park Avenue, the Phoenix S. K. sporty, the Fox artsy, the Owl fratty. By most accounts, athletes have an edge in selection, as does wealth. Legacy matters. Illustrious alumni include T. S. Eliot (the Fox) and John F. Kennedy (the Spee) whose brother Ted quit the Owl in 2006 under fire for belonging to such an exclusionary group. “Each is unique in its policy and procedures,” said Mr. Porteus, a charter school founder. “The clubs do not act in concert, seldom and sporadically share information, and in many respects are rivals. Dean Khurana is describing all clubs as though they were the same. ” The Porcellian, for example, does not throw parties or even allow nonmembers inside its clubhouse. Founded in 1791, it is the oldest and most prestigious club, counting among members Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Theodore Roosevelt and Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the Olympic rowing twins of social network fame. It’s been said that F. D. R. saw being overlooked by “the Porc” as a painful lifelong failing. An alumnus, or graduate member, agreed to talk about the lasting meaning the Porc has for its members. He described how quaint bonding activities, like     dinners in which members perform club songs and tell stories from its history, forged lasting friendships. Lunch is taken together almost every day in the club. After graduation, dinners are held monthly, worldwide, allowing   alumni to retain those friendships. Because of the club’s policy of secrecy, which harks back hundreds of years, the member would speak only on condition he not be named  —   and in a conversation monitored by a public relations representative who periodically told him he was saying too much and to stop talking. History is venerated, and he was eager to tell how it is passed down through the many artworks and objets d’art housed in its clubhouse, including thousands of renderings of boars, its emblem. Alexander Calder, a rare exception to the nonvisitor policy, was so taken with the place, the story goes, that he gifted a sculpture depicting two mating boars it was once lent to the Whitney Museum of American Art for a retrospective. Far from fraternity hazing, Porc initiation rites include memorizing and reciting each item’s provenance and meaning in pop quizzes. The Porcellian is considering becoming coed, the member said. “Even though it’s the oldest club, it’s not blindly and foolishly wedded to a certain way of being,” he said. “The club, in order to stay relevant for its members, needs to continue to evolve. ” What it is rejecting is being forced by outside parties to do so  —   and instantly. And it has pushed back. Last spring, the Porcellian commissioned a report of its own contesting the sexual assault statistics produced by the Association of American Universities. If the administration continues with its sanctions, he said, the club will pursue a lawsuit, citing rights to freedom of assembly. The Fly is also considering litigation. If the groups were to bend and turn coed, whatever it is they do behind their stately doors and Corinthian columns could continue. Last year, a few relented: The Spee and Fox admitted women, though in response to alumni backlash the Fox’s were provisional members. Contrary to the patrician conception of the club, the graduate member said, the current new class, though under a dozen, as is typical, is diverse, including several students of color as well as foreign students. Yet the clubs are stymied by both their image problem and closelipped policies. He understood that conundrum: “We recognize that as an   club, and particularly as the oldest   club, even if you take the time to learn about our traditions, our quirky weird traditions, we are just not a sympathetic figure and never will be in the public eye. ” • Harvard has had a complicated history with women, and has long grappled with gender discrimination. Founded as a men’s college, it began to integrate women slowly in the 1970s via a quasi merger with its sister school, Radcliffe College, but the two were not fully combined until as late as 1999. As the college itself made strides toward gender parity, it fired a salvo at the final clubs to push them in the same direction: In 1984, it severed ties after they refused to admit women. But instead of breaking down barriers, more   organizations emerged. In the early ’90s, the first   final clubs and sororities arose. “We had often found ourselves on the steps of a final club trying to get into a party and being chosen or not chosen by these men, who own this real estate,” Eugenia B. Schraa Huh, a founder of the   Sablière Society, told me. “There was this feeling of us being powerless on the social scene. We absolutely founded the club to help correct a power imbalance at Harvard. ” But parity has remained elusive. The women’s clubs have their own level of exclusivity, and their social role is limited because many of them do not have dedicated spaces (some partner with men’s clubs for parties, or   dinners  —   at the Fly, for example, with wine served from its cellar). The rub with the new rules is that they apply to all   clubs. Shortly after the announcement of sanctions, a protest called Hear Her Harvard coalesced about eliminating the women’s “safe spaces. ” An estimated 250 participants marched from Massachusetts Hall, past the bronze statue of John Harvard, and through Harvard Yard to decry the inclusion of   groups in the new rules, but the conversation swelled to encompass the everyday experience of being a woman at Harvard. Caroline Tervo, a member of the Pleiades Society (a women’s club named for the “seven sisters” star cluster) addressed the crowd before the march: “Gender discrimination happens every day. It happens in the classroom, when men are called on more often in the workplace, when men are paid more and on the weekend, when women are targeted and shamed for their sexuality. On a campus and in a society that is still so male dominated, female spaces are necessary sources of empowerment. ” On the day sanctions were announced, women in     huddled in urgent discussion around campus. On Facebook, fraternity and sorority members changed their profile pictures to their organization’s insignia in solidarity. Many want final clubs to change but believe that by including other groups the university painted with too broad a brush. “There is a lot of value in targeting some of the exclusionary aspects of the final clubs, and making sure we are working toward the same goals collectively,” said Rebecca Ramos, a rising senior and president of the Delta Gamma chapter, one of the Greek organizations that took root here in the early ’90s. But, she told me, “The administration has tried to target the entire single   organization scene in one fell swoop, as opposed to targeting certain organizations that don’t align with the values expressed by the mission of Harvard College. ” She said that sisters of her sorority, which is open to all women, including transgender women, act as guardians of one another’s mental health, watching for signs of emotional distress and coming to their aid to share coping mechanisms or just hugs. “We’ve been emotional support throughout many difficult times for our sisters,” she said. “People are really concerned about losing that on campus. Harvard can be a really difficult place to be. ” It is a place where social pressure is palpable. Several dozen students refused to discuss final clubs on the record. One, rushing across campus in a seersucker suit on his way to a Kentucky   party, summed up the sentiment of many when he said that if you have an opinion that might offend someone, keep it to yourself. Even detractors feared being dropped from a final club’s party rolls. Some worried they would be blacklisted from certain professions after graduation if a powerful club alumnus got wind of any criticism. Several students were afraid they would not be able to get a job in academia, or of getting bad grades, if they criticized Harvard. Ana Andrade, a freshman folded into a chair in the center of Harvard Yard between final exams, felt emboldened enough to comment on the clubs’ social impact. Particularly galling for her are the mechanics of a final club party, where women, dressed to impress, show up hoping to be picked from the crowd and invited in. “It’s all about the patriarchy,” she said. “It’s perpetuated right there. ” The process, she noted, has an Ivy League twist: Women are not measured merely by the   yardstick of physical beauty. A “Harvard 10,” she explained, is a mix of intellect, social status and academic je ne sais quoi. Yet the idea that men determine women’s worth, she said, made her too uncomfortable to participate. Amir Khan, a    student at a local community college, has borne uneasy witness to young men as the gatekeepers of Harvard social life. He drives a cab at night, and regularly picks up profoundly inebriated women from outside final clubs. “You give them power and they think that everyone has to kneel down to them,” Mr. Khan said of the club members. “Even with girls, that’s how they look at it. They get to pick it’s their choice. You let these kids grow up like this and they’ll have this mentality for the rest of their lives. ” In an annual survey of seniors conducted by the university, a majority continually say they view the clubs unfavorably, even though just a small fraction of the student body belongs to one. A similar, less comprehensive survey by The Harvard Crimson reflects that breakdown. The clubs have their defenders. In a letter to Dean Khurana, and made public in The Crimson, Harry R. Lewis, a former dean of Harvard College, praised the efforts to rein in behavior at a few “noxious” clubs but condemned the new measures: “The good you may achieve will in the long run be eclipsed by the bad: a College culture of fear and anxiety about nonconformity. ” The precedent of excluding members from leadership roles because of their stance is “breaking dangerous new ground,” he wrote. “By the same logic,” he pointed out, “in another year or by another dean, members of the Chilton Club, of the D. A. R. or of a political party advocating Muslim exclusion might also be considered deficient relative to Harvard’s standards of nondiscrimination. ” Robert Shibley, executive director of the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, an organization that defends freedom of speech on college campuses, likened the sanctions to a blacklist. “It is solely up to arbitrary judgment of the authorities as to who is no longer savory enough,” he told me. “In the ’50s that would have been the Communist Party. Once you start using that as a reason to disqualify, there is no principled place to stop. ” “When you don’t have an equal opportunity for people of different points of views to participate in what’s supposed to be a marketplace of ideas,” Mr. Shibley said, “you’re impoverishing that education. ” On Mount Auburn Street, defense of the clubs is more visceral. It was a spring night at the Phoenix S. K. Club, and young women were swiftly waved in, known so well they exchanged   kisses with the doorkeeper. Inside, they danced under crystal chandeliers beside art depicting Revolutionary War soldiers. As students swayed to a live band, a young man picked up a microphone. “Everybody say hi to Dean Khurana, he’s in the back!” he yelled. The name drew curses from the dance floor. • Harvard is but the most prestigious wave in an ocean of unrest on college campuses regarding   extracurricular groups. With fraternities caught up in allegations of sexual misconduct across the country, the movement to abolish them has gained momentum. In 2014, Wesleyan University ruled that its small group of residential fraternities must integrate women. Greek organizations have been banned altogether from Amherst College. Middlebury College has replaced them with   “social houses. ” Studies underscore the connection between binge drinking, assault and Greek life. A 2007 study by John D. Foubert, a professor of higher education at Oklahoma State University, found that members of frats have three times the likelihood of committing rape as nonmembers. But whether abolishing male organizations improves the environment for women remains to be seen. “There are lots of questions we don’t have research about,” Dr. Foubert said. Good metrics are hard to come by: A rise in sexual assault complaints can be a good sign  —   “the women trust the institution more,” he said  —   and “kids can drink alcohol in any setting undetected. ” Some experts worry that bad behavior would just move underground. At Trinity College, a push to force   organizations to go coed was abandoned last year, after the president, Joanne   announced that the move appeared unlikely to foster the inclusion and equality that was hoped for. “In fact, communitywide dialogue concerning this issue has been divisive and counterproductive,” she wrote in a statement. A spokeswoman confirmed that the houses failed to attract the opposite sex, and alumni donors with Greek life ties had pulled back. Despite the turmoil, nothing seismic happened when the Fox went coed, according to one member interviewed outside the clubhouse. (He would not give his full name because the club forbids members to speak to the news media.) “People were worried that, ‘Oh, we can’t act the same way, we can’t act up,’’u2009” he said. “But I don’t see it changing. I think it’s a cool experience with having a different perspective in the club. ” Some fear what their commitment to such clubs will mean for their future. Mitchell York briefly questioned his hope to punch this year when, as a sophomore, he’ll be eligible. But the promise of lifelong friends outweighed any hesitation. It even trumped the specter of reprisal, and any anxiety of being associated with a club at the cross hairs of a conversation about sexual assault. That’s because the solution, Mr. York believes, lies in the club members themselves. “I know that I would never have an issue with what the final clubs are accused of,” he said. “People who are joining, and people who are in them currently, have to take on the responsibility to make sure that these things don’t happen. ”