Lawyers representing Dylann Roof, the white man accused of killing nine black members of a historic Charleston, S. C. church last year, filed a motion challenging the constitutionality of the death penalty after federal prosecutors declined his offer to serve life without parole. In the   motion filed late Monday in Federal District Court in Charleston, Mr. Roof’s lawyers acknowledged that “the facts of this case are indisputably grave. ” But they argued that the death penalty itself is unconstitutional, and that therefore “no one can be lawfully sentenced to death or executed under it, no matter what his crimes. ” The challenge to the system stemmed from the government’s refusal to accept guilty pleas from Mr. Roof in exchange for multiple sentences of life in prison without a possibility of parole, the filing said. “Should the government’s death notice be withdrawn at any point in the future,” the filing said, “Mr. Roof will withdraw this motion and plead guilty as charged to all counts in the indictment. ” The defense team  —   which includes David Bruck, a nationally renowned death penalty lawyer  —   drew on academic research and earlier court cases to argue that the death penalty is unreliable, excessive and undermined by lengthy delays. The lawyers, who declined a request for comment, cited a dissenting opinion in a landmark death penalty case in the United States Supreme Court last year. The    decision upheld the use of lethal injection drugs, turning aside claims by three death row inmates that the drugs caused unconstitutional suffering. But in the   dissent, Justice Stephen G. Breyer, joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, said it was time to reconsider whether capital punishment was constitutional. Justice Breyer wrote that “it is highly likely” that the death penalty violated the Eighth Amendment, which bars cruel and unusual punishments, and said there was evidence suggesting that innocent people had been executed. Legal scholars said the Roof filing was notable for the   defense team behind it, as well as its timing a year after the dissent by Justices Breyer and Ginsburg in the death penalty case, Glossip v. Gross. Mr. Bruck, one of three lawyers who signed Mr. Roof’s filing on Monday, has played a role in hundreds of death penalty cases and argued seven of them before the Supreme Court. He helped defend Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in the Boston Marathon bomber trial. Whether a challenge like Mr. Roof’s could prevail in front of the Supreme Court, should it rise there on appeal, is a subject of intense speculation. The defense team is clearly “reading the tea leaves,” said Evan Mandery, the author of “A Wild Justice,” a history of challenges to capital punishment. “You have two odd events,” added Mr. Mandery, who is also a professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. “It’s that it’s a federal death penalty case in the context of a hate crime  —   so you have this ambitious use of the death penalty  —   after Glossip, when Breyer signaled that he thought the death penalty was unconstitutional. ” Peter Carr, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to comment on the filing. “We’ll respond at the appropriate time in court,” he said. Monday’s motion did not address the crimes for which Mr. Roof, 22, is accused. Officials say Mr. Roof, a high school dropout from a broken home, sat in a Bible study session at Emanuel A. M. E. Church, which has a predominantly black congregation, on June 17, 2015, before pulling out a gun and shooting people ranging in age from 26 to 87. Last year, a federal grand jury indicted Mr. Roof on 33 counts, including hate crimes, weapons charges and obstructing the practice of religion. In May, the Justice Department announced that it would seek Mr. Roof’s execution. Attorney General Loretta Lynch said in a statement at the time that “the nature of the alleged crime and the resulting harm compelled this decision. ” Prosecutors cited nine aggravating factors that included Mr. Roof’s expressed hatred of   and lack of remorse over the killings. His federal trial is scheduled to begin in November. The State of South Carolina has also charged Mr. Roof with murder, and the state prosecutor, Scarlett A. Wilson, said last year that she would seek the death penalty. That trial is expected to start in January. Whether Mr. Roof should be put to death has been debated in South Carolina. Some relatives of the victims publicly forgave him during an emotional hearing two days after the massacre. Gov. Nikki R. Haley, a Republican, has called for the death penalty. Only three federal defendants, including Timothy J. McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber, have been executed since 1988, when the government reinstated the death penalty.