 (CNN) Here’s a look at the life of James Comey, former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Personal: Birth date: December 14, 1960, Birth place: Yonkers, New York, Birth name: James Brien Comey Jr. Father: James Brien Comey, real estate professional, Mother: Joan (Herald) Comey, Marriages: Patrice (Failor) Comey ( ) Children: Collin (deceased) Abby, Claire, Brien, Kate and Maurene, Education: College of William  Mary, B. S. with honors, 1982 University of Chicago Law School, J. D. 1985, Other Facts:In 1977, Comey and his younger brother were held at gunpoint in their parents’ home by a man suspected of a series of rapes in the area. Comey has worked on or overseen a number of   cases as a US attorney and FBI director, including the prosecution of Martha Stewart in the ImClone stock trading case, the investigations into the Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia and of CIA Director David Petraeus for passing confidential information to his lover. As a US Attorney, Comey created a unit devoted to prosecuting international drug cartels.  In college, he majored in chemistry and religion, and wrote a thesis comparing the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr to the televangelist Jerry Falwell.  Comey and his wife, Patrice, have served as foster parents.  Comey is six feet eight inches tall. Timeline:    Assistant US Attorney for the Southern District of New York.  1993   Hired by private law firm McGuire Woods. 1996   Partner at McGuire Woods, specializing in criminal defense and commercial litigation. 1996   Deputy Special Counsel of the Special Committee to Investigate Whitewater Development Corporation and Related Matters, which looks into allegations that President Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, took part in a fraudulent real estate deal.      Assistant US Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia and head of the Richmond division. While in Richmond, he also serves as an adjunct professor at the University of Richmond School of Law.  2001   Comey is assigned to lead the investigation into the 1996 Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia, which killed 19 American servicemen.      US Attorney for the Southern District of New York.  2003   Brings charges against Martha Stewart of conspiracy, obstruction of justice and securities fraud linked to selling ImClone Systems stock.  Stewart is convicted on all counts in 2004 and sentenced to five months in prison.     Deputy Attorney General under Attorney General John Ashcroft.  March 2004   While serving as acting attorney general while Ashcroft is hospitalized, Comey refuses to certify as lawful parts of the George Bush Administration’s domestic wiretapping program. Comey later tells a Senate Judiciary Committee that then White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card Jr. and White House Counsel Alberto Gonzales tried to get Ashcroft to approve the program from his bed in intensive care.  August     Senior Vice President and General Counsel at Lockheed Martin Corp.     Counsel at Bridgewater Associates, a Connecticut investment company.  2013   Senior Research Scholar and Hertog Fellow at Columbia University. July 29, 2013   Confirmed by the US Senate as director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation by a   count, with Senator Rand Paul as the lone holdout. September 4, 2013   Sworn in as director of the FBI. July 5, 2016   Says he will not recommend charges against Hillary Clinton for her use of a private email server during her time as secretary of state. He notes, however, that Clinton and her aides were ”extremely careless” handling classified information. July 6, 2016   Testifies before the House Oversight Committee on the FBI’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. July 7, 2016   Testifies that he has been a registered Republican for most of his adult life but that he is ”not registered any longer.” He says the FBI is ”resolutely apolitical.” October 28, 2016   Eleven days before the presidential election, Comey informs Congress in a letter that the FBI is reviewing new emails related to Clinton’s time as secretary of state. The emails are discovered as part of an investigation into former Congressman Anthony Weiner and were sent or received by Clinton aide Huma Abedin, Weiner’s wife.  November 6, 2016   After reviewing the newly discovered emails, Comey tells lawmakers the agency has not changed its opinion that Clinton should not face criminal charges. His decision comes two days before the presidential election. January 12, 2017   The Justice Department announces its inspector general’s office has launched a probe into the DOJ and the FBI’s handling, under Comey, of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server. March 20, 2017   During a hearing on Capitol Hill, Comey confirms the FBI is investigating links between Russia and members of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign staff.  May 3, 2017   Testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Comey strongly defends his decision to alert Congress just days before the 2016 election about his agency’s investigation into emails potentially related to Hillary Clinton’s personal server, telling senators while the idea of impacting the election made him ”mildly nauseous,” he would not change what he did. May 9, 2017   President Trump fires Comey after his attorney general and deputy attorney general recommend his removal, due to his decision to recommend no charges be filed against Clinton and the news conference he held to explain his reasoning for it. June 7, 2016   Comey releases his written testimony regarding his interactions with President Donald Trump regarding the Russia investigation a day early of his scheduled hearing before the Senate Intelligence Committee. June 8, 2017   Comey testifies before the Senate Intelligence Committee stating that he believed Trump was directing him to drop the probe into his former national security adviser Michael Flynn, although he also said that Trump never told him explicitly to do so. Comey also revealed that he orchestrated the leak of accounts of conversations with President Donald Trump because he thought it might lead to the appointment of a special prosecutor to lead the Russia investigation. 