RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Most of the key figures involved in Russia’s elaborate doping scheme at the 2014 Sochi Olympics will not participate in the Rio Games. The lab director who blew the whistle is living in the United States, and implicated government officials were told not to attend. A central figure in their schemes, however, has found its way here: the supposedly     bottle that Russian officials manipulated to evade doping violations. Berlinger, the Swiss manufacturer of the Sochi bottles, has supplied the   lab for the Rio Games with thousands of its latest bottles. “It’s a really big problem for the Olympics, because we rely on the fact that those bottles can’t be tampered with,” said Don Catlin, a former member of the Olympic medical commission that selected the Berlinger bottles in the late 1990s. “I’m sure they’re scrambling to figure out how they can inspect them with a microscope, but it’s going to be hard. ” With their locking caps, the squat glass bottles were thought to be   until Grigory Rodchenkov, the chemist who ran Sochi’s Olympic lab, said he had broken into them to manipulate urine samples with the help of Russia’s intelligence service. A subsequent investigation commissioned by antidoping officials concluded that the contents of the bottles could be, and had been, stealthily substituted. “After a considerable amount of work, the caps came off,” Richard McLaren, the Canadian lawyer who led that investigation, said last month. Mr. McLaren said his team of forensic investigators found microscopic scratches on the Sochi bottles, along with indications that the urine they held had been changed. Global sports authorities, who have relied on the bottles at the last eight Olympics, were in disbelief, as was the family that has run Berlinger since it was founded in 1865 as a mechanical cotton weaving mill. “No one can believe it,” Andrea Berlinger, Berlinger’s chief executive, said in May, when Dr. Rodchenkov’s account was made public. “We’re all a bit speechless. ” For each athlete tested at the Rio Games, two bottles will be used, to hold an Olympian’s urine for not only the duration of the Games but also the decade afterward, during which samples are preserved for possible reanalysis. Several thousand athletes will be tested. “The bottles aren’t   because, in our opinion,   is nonexistent,” Hans Klaus, a spokesman for Berlinger, said this week. “We have absolute confidence in the bottles if you use them in a normal way, not with illegal methods or a criminal system like C. S. I. Miami. ” Mr. Klaus said the bottle’s design had been updated since the 2014 Sochi Games, as part of routine improvements. He declined to specify what modifications had been made, citing security concerns, but said the interlocking metal teeth that sealed the bottle were a part of the latest design. Production of the Rio bottles finished in April, he said. The Sochi scheme was made public in May and confirmed by the World   Agency in July. Berlinger was not involved in Mr. McLaren’s investigation, and the bottle’s design enhancements were not informed by the mechanics of how he and others imperceptibly cracked into them. No one has made that blueprint public, though many have suggested it relies on fiddling with the toothed metal rings that lock the bottle, which likely produced the microscopic scratches. Mr. McLaren said on Friday that he had provided explanatory illustrations of how his team had tampered with the bottles to the manufacturer and the World   Agency within the last week. He had not communicated with the Rio lab staff to provide any kind of manual, he said. Some antidoping advocates did not think the bottles posed a problem for Rio, particularly in the face of more immediate issues like deciding, amid the doping crisis emanating from Russia, which athletes would even participate in the Games. The Rio lab did not reply to requests for comment, and Brazil’s antidoping agency deferred to the lab. The World   Agency accredits Olympic labs, but the International Olympic Committee is in charge of them during the Games. Each institution has in the past pointed to the other as an accountable authority. On Friday, WADA said the bottles were a question for the Olympic committee, given it ran the lab. Asked who was ultimately answerable for the quality of drug testing at the Games, Thomas Bach  —   the Olympic committee president who excoriated WADA in recent days  —   called drug testing at the Games “a shared responsibility. ” Mr. Bach added: “The antidoping laboratory is the responsibility of WADA. There is WADA accreditation and WADA supervision, and WADA will also again supervise the Olympic committee’s activities at the Games with regard to antidoping. ” Neither the I. O. C. nor WADA specified if any new measures would be put in place in Rio. “With all that’s happened,” said Lauryn Williams, an American sprinter and athlete representative for WADA, “there should be many, many processes in place that would prevent the opportunity to tamper with the bottle. ” Paul Melia, Canada’s top antidoping official, called on WADA’s independent observer team to actively search for signs of tampering. “One of their jobs now is going to be to look at every single sample under microscopic analysis to be sure none have been tampered with,” he said. “That’s what the independent observer team is supposed to be doing, making sure none of this happens. ” At the Sochi lab, the WADA observer did not catch Dr. Rodchenkov’s overnight   operation that was carried out in a storage closet the observer team later issued a report praising Dr. Rodchenkov’s work as “a milestone in the evolution of the Olympic Games antidoping program. ” Richard W. Pound, a former president of WADA and an Olympic committee member, estimated it would take 15 seconds to rotate each of the several thousand bottles under a microscope. “I think it may be a thing of the past,” he said of such elaborate breaches in doping control, “if you know what to look for. ”