RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Sometimes it is one of the most famous athletes in the world, like Muhammad Ali in 1996. Other times it is an archer or a   skier whose name you will never hear again. But whoever it is, the person who lights the caldron at the opening ceremony is given one of the highest honors at an Olympics. The most famous athlete in Brazil, and maybe the world, is Pelé. Even though he was never an Olympian, he would seem like the logical choice for the 2016 Games. But on Friday Pelé, 75, said he would not attend the ceremony because of ill health. Generally, the distinction goes to a successful Olympian from the host country. He or she is often retired, but not always: Cathy Freeman lit the torch in Sydney in 2000, then went on to win the women’s 400 meters there. Four years ago, we predicted that the   gold medalist rower Steven Redgrave would light the caldron in London. It was actually lit by a group of young, unknown athletes who represented the future of the Games. But Redgrave was the last prominent athlete to hold the torch, so we are taking partial credit. Let’s see if we can forecast which Brazilian athlete will light the caldron in Rio. 8. Oscar Schmidt, basketball The country’s basketball legend, known like many Brazilian athletes by his first name only, led Brazil to a shocking upset of a United States team led by David Robinson at the 1987 Pan Am Games. He is a Basketball Hall of Famer and recently fought off brain cancer. He played in five Olympics but never won a medal. 7. Torben Grael, yachting With five medals, including two golds, from 1984 to 2004, Grael is Brazil’s most decorated Olympian. (An active sailor, Robert Scheidt, has since matched Grael’s medal haul.) But yachting is a   sport, perhaps not well enough known for the lighter of the caldron. 6. Arthur Zanetti, gymnastics Brazil’s only gymnastics gold medalist, in the 2012 rings event, Zanetti participated in the torch relay in July. But he remains an active contender, not a retired elder statesman like those who are commonly chosen. 5. César Cielo, swimming Cielo is the only gold medalist for Brazil in the popular sport of swimming, winning the   freestyle in 2008, and he remains the   holder in that event. He disappointingly failed to qualify for the 2016 Games, but perhaps a role in the opening ceremony could be a consolation prize. 4. A female volleyball player The Brazilian women won the gold medal in 2008 and 2012. Sheilla Castro was on both those teams and will try for a third gold this year. Sandra Pires and Jacqueline Silva won the inaugural beach volleyball gold medal in 1996. 3. A male volleyball player Volleyball is second only to soccer in popularity among Brazilians, and the men’s team won gold in 1992 and 2004. Giovane Gávio and Maurício Lima were on both teams. Giba is the best player of recent times and was on the 2004 team. 2. Joaquim Cruz, track Brazil’s only track gold medalist (the country has three golds in field events). Cruz won the 800 meters in 1984, beating Sebastian Coe, a   Olympic gold medalist who is now the president of the International Association of Athletics Federations. Cruz lit the caldron at the 2007 Pan Am games in Rio. 1. Vanderlei de Lima, marathon De Lima was leading the marathon with four miles to go in Athens in 2004 when a spectator, an Irish   tackled him. Shaken, de Lima slipped to third. He was hailed after the race, and awarded the Pierre de Coubertin medal for sportsmanship. Though he did not get a gold medal, he could get an even rarer honor: lighting the Rio caldron on Friday night.