(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. There have been doping problems, housing problems, sewage problems, torch failures, one arrest of an athlete and a scary virus to contend with, but despite it all, the 2016 Rio Olympics have prevailed. The opening ceremony began at 7 Eastern tonight (Our live coverage is here. ). We’ve got 24 percent of our sports desk at the Games  —   they’re carrying 64 bottles of bug repellent  —   and all eyes will be on the athlete selected to light the caldron. And when Simone Biles, the American gymnast believed to be the best in history, competes, all eyes will be on her check out a detailed interactive on what makes her so good. _____ 2. The American economy is also looking good. The latest jobs report had a lot of positive news: 255, 000 jobs were added last month, wages went up, and more people are looking for, and finding, work. This makes it more likely that the Federal Reserve will raise rates, though probably not as early as September. There’s no question that the strong economy helps Hillary Clinton in her quest for the presidency, our columnist writes. _____ 3. Donald J. Trump was in Iowa and Wisconsin on Friday, while Hillary Clinton, who rarely gives news conferences, spoke at a convention of minority journalists in Washington, taking more questions from reporters than she has in months. This was a tough week for Mr. Trump, including conflicts with prominent Republicans, but it’s nearly impossible for the party to fire him and nominate someone else before the election. On Friday evening, Mr. Trump belatedly endorsed the primary campaign of Speaker Paul D. Ryan, seeking to heal his rift with the party. _____ 4. The United States is on pace to meet and even surpass President Obama’s goal of resettling 10, 000 Syrian refugees in the country by the end of September. Mr. Obama announced the goal in October, and so far, 8, 000 refugees have been allowed into the country despite a fierce political debate that has become a theme of the presidential campaign and despite the refusal of many states to accept them. _____ 5. Don’t call me “honey. ” It’s a sentiment reflected by many female lawyers, who say it’s not rare for them to be addressed by pet names or subjected to grating remarks by male colleagues in the courtroom. Above, Lori Rifkin, a lawyer, said she was “well accustomed” to such comments. A group representing 5, 200 women in law is pushing for the American Bar Association to amend their rules of professional conduct to prohibit harassment and discrimination. The amendment, which has been criticized as inhibiting the ability to speak freely, will come up for a vote on Monday. _____ 6. The party that helped liberate black South Africans from   rule has had its worst election since the end of apartheid. The African National Congress, which was the party of Nelson Mandela, has become mired in corruption. Above, members of the party discussed election results. Two of the most highly contested races, in Johannesburg and Pretoria, were too close to call on Friday. _____ 7. Police in Chicago released video from the night that a black teenager was fatally shot by an officer after crashing a stolen car, but it did not show the moment of the shooting. The officer who shot Paul O’Neal, 18, on July 28 was wearing a body camera, but officials have said it was not recording at the time. A lawyer for Mr. O’Neal’s family called the teenager’s death an execution and accused the police of a  . _____ 8. The United States is 10 months into the rollout of   credit cards, and it seems as if frustration is only growing. Though things are likely to improve  —   more businesses will have chip readers and be able to use them, and the transaction time may get shorter  —   it will remain up to each merchant whether to upgrade, and that awful noise isn’t going anywhere. Maybe it’s time to try a mobile wallet option. _____ 9. The day we’ve been waiting for has finally arrived   …     or so we thought. Frank Ocean’s new album, “Boys Don’t Cry,” was set to be released on Friday, but it has yet to materialize. The album was expected to be released exclusively through Apple music, which gives the artist more control  —   and that makes   musical tinkering possible. The singer is, after all, a notorious and   perfectionist. _____ 10. Eight people have leapt or fallen to their deaths this year from the George Washington Bridge, which connects Manhattan and New Jersey. But last Thursday, a    bicyclist on his way home from work prevented a    man from become the ninth. Julio De Leon, above, cannot recall his exact words but said he told the young man something along the lines of: “Don’t do it. We love you, my heart” before curling an arm around him and, with the help of a bystander who had been taking a photo of the situation, pulled the man back to safety. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.