RIO DE JANEIRO  —   It’s too late to cancel the Rio Olympics. Despite protests and criticisms that the Summer Games do not belong in Brazil, a country struggling with political turmoil and economic collapse  —   not to mention the Zika virus  —   the competitions have begun: shooting, gymnastics, volleyball and more. Already the Games have produced elation and anguish, cheers and curses. And that was only the first day. The curtain on these   Games rose at the Maracanã stadium during Friday night’s opening ceremony, with tens of thousands watching live and millions of people from all parts of the world watching from home. And on that first night, Brazil, despite a squeezed budget, did what it could to put on a good show. The party was clearly   but irresistibly fun, proving that deep pockets, which are often considered so necessary in the Olympic world, aren’t so necessary after all. There were dancing and bossa nova and fireworks and more dancing. And when the song “The Girl from Ipanema” began playing, naturally the supermodel Gisele Bündchen strutted across the giant stage in a shimmering gold dress that had a slit up to there, as the crowd roared for one of its stars. In one segment, images of water and waves were projected onto the floor to simulate the ocean. Floating garbage and untreated sewage  —   and sometimes even dead bodies and body parts  —   weren’t part of the picture, as they are a part of real life here, in the contaminated Guanabara Bay, where some Olympic athletes will compete. In another segment, puppets resembling giant insects stomped around as a lovely story unfolded of how Brazil was born. None of those bugs were   mosquitoes. Rio showed Brazil’s best side to the world, and its Olympic debut as a host went off without a glitch. Here’s hoping it’s a harbinger for the rest of these Summer Games, the first held in a South American nation. History tells us that we shouldn’t worry  —   at least all that much. Because even when doom and gloom are a part of the mood before the Games, which they have been for a least a decade now, most of the time the Olympics unfold without any fears coming true. In Salt Lake City in 2002, the first    Olympics, there was apprehension about more terrorism. Police and military helicopters buzzed overhead. In 2004 in Athens, that terror threat only grew, with some news outlets providing biohazard suits to reporters as part of their Olympic gear. In Beijing in 2008, some athletes were given inhalers and specially designed face masks to protect them from the heavy pollution (which miraculously disappeared when the Olympics began, then reappeared a day after the closing ceremony). In 2010, Vancouver rushed to bring snow to the mountains because unusually warm weather had left the ground relatively bare. For London 2012 and Sochi 2014, more threats of terror created a dark cloud, but those Games ended without major disruption. And now, here is Rio, a breathtaking city with white sand beaches and emerald rain forests, but a city ridden with crime and corruption and pollution. People watching on TV will see a sanitized version of it. A generation of children will be inspired. My    is already leaping around the house and doing cartwheels, pretending to be Simone Biles, the American gymnast who could win five gold medals. She and her friends at the pool insist on wearing “Olympian goggles” because they, too, want to be Olympic swimmers someday. They don’t know how rough a road it has been for the Olympics to get here, and that is quite likely for the best. Carlos Nuzman, president of the organizing committee, nailed it when he addressed the crowd at the opening ceremony and said, “The best place in the world is here, now. ” You could say that Nuzman was right because Rio and these Olympics are thousands of miles away from the United States’ presidential election, and the negativity surrounding it. And that, of course, would be true. But watch the athletes and you’ll really know why Nuzman was right. There are about 11, 000 of them at these Games, and many of them walked into the Maracanã for the opening ceremony on Friday, mugging for the cameras and toting selfie sticks. There was the   for Tonga, who marched in   with skin so well oiled that he looked coated in Crisco as he glistened under the lights. And there was the team of refugee athletes who marched behind the Olympic flag, getting the opportunity to compete in the Games when they otherwise wouldn’t have. They received the biggest cheers of the night, which made sense. Just look at what those athletes have overcome to get here. One of those refugees, Yusra Mardini, and her family had fled   Syria. When their dinghy, which was too packed with people, began to sink en route from Turkey to Greece, she and her sister jumped into the sea to pull the boat to the shore, and to safety. Now she will swim at the Olympics, and her accomplishment will be a reminder that humans can be resilient, even when faced with the darkest odds. Even the Russians seemed happy on Friday as they made their way into the stadium. Well, not all the Russians. Nearly 300 of them will compete in Rio, but 100 others were barred from the Games because they were linked to a   doping program. But there they were, the ones who convinced their international sports federations that they were clean, and they appeared delighted as they, like the other athletes, danced to the samba music. No matter which athletes, from no matter which country, this is what they’ve been waiting for. Right now, they don’t care that Dilma Rousseff, Brazil’s president, may be impeached. Or that superbacteria lurk in the waters they will swim in or sail on. Now, for those athletes, and for many of us, it’s too late to turn back. It’s right here, right now, blinders on, bug spray on. Fingers crossed. Full speed ahead.