Ichiro Suzuki, the baseball pioneer who proved 15 years ago that Japanese hitters could succeed in Major League Baseball, reached a hallowed milestone Sunday when he became the 30th player to compile 3, 000 hits. Suzuki, a Miami Marlins outfielder, tripled to right field against the Colorado Rockies to join one of the most elite groups in baseball in his 16th season in the big leagues. Pete Rose, the career hits leader, is the only other player to collect his 3, 000th hit by his 16th season. Suzuki is the first player from Japan to reach 3, 000 hits and just the fourth player born outside the contiguous United States to do so. He joins Roberto Clemente, who was from Puerto Rico Rod Carew, from Panama and Rafael Palmeiro, from Cuba. Suzuki is also the first player to reach 3, 000 hits while playing for the  Marlins. The hit came as the Marlins chase a playoff spot. They were   entering Sunday’s game, tied for second in the National League   race. Suzuki, making a rare start, pulled a   pitch from Chris Rusin to right field, and the ball hit high off the wall, missing a home run by about 10 feet. For all his success hitting balls the opposite way, Suzuki also has pull power, and he reached third base standing to join Paul Molitor as the only players to triple for their 3, 000th hit. Suzuki’s teammates poured out of the dugout to congratulate him, and the fans at Coors Field gave him a standing ovation as he waved his helmet in appreciation. Suzuki came into the season needing 65 hits to reach 3, 000 and has performed above expectations, given his age, 42, and his offensive numbers over the last three seasons. A   starter, he went into Sunday’s game batting . 317 with an   percentage of . 388, among the Marlins’ leaders in both categories. But after he collected his 2, 998th hit on July 28, Suzuki struggled briefly, going 0 for 11 over seven games before recording his 2, 999th hit on Saturday. “It took a long time for me,” Ichiro told reporters in Denver. “Obviously I’ve been feeling this for the past two weeks, and not getting an opportunity to get in there, getting a   every night, that was tough. For me, I feel like I should have gotten this two years ago. ” Suzuki recently stated that reaching the   plateau as part of a winning team that is competing for a playoff spot is one of the most satisfying aspects of the accomplishment. “Are you at the end and can barely play and are just chasing this number and can barely get there?” he asked rhetorically through an interpreter last month. “Or are you part of a team trying to win ballgames, going about your business properly as you go past that number? I think that is what I want to experience, and that is what is important for me. ” Suzuki made his major league debut with the Seattle Mariners in 2001, amid considerable skepticism that he could replicate the success he had achieved as a professional player in Japan. He had a small, wiry physique, leaving some to wonder if he might be physically overwhelmed by big league pitching, and unusual batting mechanics, in which he practically sprinted out of the   batter’s box as he made contact with the ball. But in his first   game on April 2, 2001, he rapped out two hits. It was a prophetic debut. That season he reached 242 hits, the first of a record 10 consecutive   seasons, and he batted . 350, setting the tone for a major league career that will almost surely culminate in his induction to the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N. Y. where no Japanese player has yet been enshrined. Before Suzuki signed with the Mariners, the only Japanese players considered good enough to excel in the major leagues were pitchers. Suzuki almost instantly shattered the old perceptions, leading directly to the signings of several more players from Japan, including Hideki Matsui by the Yankees, Kazuo Matsui by the Mets and Kosuke Fukudome by the Chicago Cubs. But while Hideki Matsui achieved notable success in the Bronx, neither Kazuo Matsui nor Fukudome came near the statistical heights achieved by Suzuki, who has led baseball in hits in seven seasons, has a career . 314 batting average, and has 507 stolen bases. Of the players who have reached 3, 000 hits, none have done it quite like Suzuki. He did not enter the major leagues until he was 27, three years older at his debut than any of the other members of the   club. Rose was 22. The oldest, outside Suzuki, was Wade Boggs, who was 24. Suzuki brought with him his unique method of preparing for games. He is a perpetual stretching machine, going through his calisthenics in the clubhouse, at his position in the outfield and sometimes in the batter’s box between pitches. He carries his select bats  —   made from Japanese tamo wood  —   in a     valise, tending them much the way a concert violinist pampers an instrument. “Baseball is more than a game to him, it is a craft,” Derek Jeter said in a congratulatory statement. The last two players to reach 3, 000 hits did it with the Yankees, for whom Suzuki played from 2012 to 2014. Alex Rodriguez gained entry to the club with a home run on June 19, 2015, and Jeter did it with a homer as part of a    afternoon at Yankee Stadium on July 9, 2011. Suzuki was still playing for the Mariners when Jeter reached 3, 000 but said he admired it from afar. “Don’t compare that to me,” Suzuki said with genuine modesty. Before his arrival in the United States, Suzuki had amassed 1, 278 hits for the Orix Blue Wave in Japan. Though his Japanese hits do not count toward his major league total, he now has 4, 278 hits over all. That unofficial math puts him ahead of Rose’s career record of 4, 256 hits, but Suzuki has never said that his hits in Japan should count for his major league total. He did say last year that he can envision playing another eight seasons, if his body holds up, meaning there could be many more hits to come. Suzuki’s current manager, Don Mattingly, was one of the best hitters of his era, but chronic back problems forced him to retire after 14 seasons, 847 hits shy of the mark. “That’s a lot of hits, and you have to play a long time,” Mattingly said as Suzuki closed in on 3, 000. “It says something about those guys, how they’ve worked and persevered and continue to take care of their bodies. I think it says a lot. It’s a great milestone. ”