Much of the credit for the remarkable rise of the Dallas Cowboys from   last season to   this season has gone to two rookies: quarterback Dak Prescott and running back Ezekiel Elliott. But insiders will tell you that the real secret to the Cowboys’ success is their offensive line, which, by most accounts, is the best in the N. F. L. Whether blocking for Elliott or giving Prescott the time he needs to find an open receiver, Dallas’s dominant line is the constant that has driven the team forward. It is difficult to scientifically assess the merits of an offensive line. Linemen do not compile straightforward statistics, like yardage or touchdowns. But measures that do exist point to the Cowboys’ line as elite. Three of the five starters have been chosen to the Pro Bowl, a total matched only by the Oakland Raiders. It is the fourth consecutive Pro Bowl selection for left tackle Tyron Smith and the third straight for center Travis Frederick and right guard Zack Martin. The line is rounded out by left guard Ronald Leary, subbing for the injured La’el Collins, and the veteran right tackle Doug Free. “I have always felt that the offensive line are the heartbeat for a franchise,” Troy Aikman, the former Cowboys quarterback, said. “If you’ve got tough physical offensive linemen, then your team is going to be tough and physical. That becomes what your identity is. ” Aikman will be calling Dallas’s game against the Green Bay Packers on Sunday for Fox. Others around the N. F. L. agree. “The offensive line is unbelievable,” Vikings Coach Mike Zimmer told reporters in November. “They’re by far the best in the league that I’ve seen. Smith is the best lineman in the league by far. But they’ve got a lot of big, physical guys. ” Elliott thought enough of his linemen to give them all John Deere   vehicles for Christmas. Focusing on the offensive line has been a conscious decision by Coach Jason Garrett and the Cowboys. “The background that Jason has, his beliefs come from the years we shared together with the Cowboys in the ” Aikman said. “His interest was building the offensive line. They built their offense around the power running game. ” The Cowboys had not used a   pick on a blocker since 1981, eight years before Jerry Jones bought the team. But a run of three in four years  —   Smith in 2011, Frederick in 2013 and Martin in 2014 —   laid the foundation for the corps now in place. Using a system that includes statistics like yards before contact on running plays and sacks, hits, and hurries on passing plays, Pro Football Focus ranked the Cowboys’ offensive line the best in the league, ahead of the lines of the Eagles and the Raiders. (The Chargers ranked last.) Although it is hard to quantify exactly how much of the credit goes to the offensive line, the Cowboys ranked fifth in yards per pass and third in yards per run. Dallas and Atlanta were the only teams in the top five in both categories. The news media have also piled on the praise. Sports Illustrated writers picked the Cowboys as the best offensive line, and also suggested that the unit should be considered the league’s collective most valuable player. Bleacher Report went further, naming the line as one of the greatest in history, alongside units like the Redskins Hogs of the early 1980s and the Raiders of the 1970s. One line also named among the greatest was the Cowboys’ line of the early to mid 1990s, which won three Super Bowls blocking for Emmitt Smith. While praising the current unit, Aikman was quick to nod to the men who blocked for him, who came into the league less heralded. “We never had three   guys or   picks on the offensive line,” he noted. Sunday’s game will be a match of great lines, with the Packers’ offensive line, ranked fifth by Pro Football Focus, anchored by the Pro Bowl right guard T. J. Lang. The Cowboys’ future up front looks strong. Of the three Pro Bowl linemen, Smith is in his sixth year, Frederick in his fourth and Martin in his third. All are signed for next season, as is Free. Leary may leave as a free agent, but at 32, he is a much more replaceable piece. With the rookie Prescott at the helm, the solid line is a security blanket. “I would have loved to have those in place when I came in as a rookie in 1989,” Aikman said. “Whether it’s me, Joe Montana or Terry Bradshaw, there were good players around us. Prescott’s been the beneficiary. ”