Women’s   Breaststroke: In the days leading up to this race, the American Lilly King criticized her Russian opponent, reigning world champion Yulia Efimova, for her “drug cheating,” a reference to Efimova’s   doping suspension which ended in early 2015. During qualifying the two rivals exchanged   taunts, which led to a tense final. In the end, King had the last word, breaking an Olympic record in the process. Her time of 1:04. 93 beat the 1:05. 17 swam by Australia’s Leisel Jones in 2008. Efimova took the silver at 1:05. 50. Follow us here for the latest updates on our Olympics coverage. In a   interview with NBC, King said, “You wave your finger No. 1 and you’ve been caught drug cheating?” “I’m not a fan,” she added. Read Karen Crouse’s story on the race and the rivalry here. Men’s 100 Backstroke: The United States has claimed every gold medal in the men’s   backstroke since Canada’s Mark Tewksbury touched the wall   of a second before the American Jeff Rouse in 1992. Ryan Murphy, a   Olympian, kept the streak intact Monday and set an Olympic record in the process. He was timed in 51. 97, missing the world record, set by Aaron Peirsol in 2009, by   of a second. Xu Jiayu of China won the silver, barely, over Murphy’s teammate, David Plummer. Xu was timed in 52. 31 to Plummer’s 52. 40.  —   KAREN CROUSE On paper, Tuesday looks like one of those days destined for Olympic magic and neverending highlight reels. Gymnastics: Simone Biles and the U. S. women’s gymnastics team are the heavy favorites in the team competition. The Americans dominated in individual qualifying and would have to fall hard to miss gold. Swimming: Katie Ledecky made her   freestyle debut in an   competition at last summer’s world championships and won. If she wins the gold against a strong field that includes Sarah Sjostrom of Sweden, Ledecky will be   of the way to becoming the first swimmer since Debbie Meyer in 1968 to win the 200, 400 and 800 at the same Olympics. One of the most anticipated showdowns of the Rio Games takes place when Michael Phelps tries to avenge his 2012 Olympic loss to South Africa’s Chad Le Clos in the   butterfly. Katinka Hosszu shattered the world record in the 400 individual medley on Saturday, and she will look to do the same to her world mark in the 200 I. M. How to Watch: NBC broadcasts on a tape delay, but you can stream all the events here. Japan returned to the top of the men’s gymnastics world, beating Russia and China in the team event. The event was a renewal of the longtime gymnastics rivalry between Japan and China. China had won the last two gold medals, in 2008 and 2012. But Japan had Kohei Uchimura, the world’s best gymnast  —   and perhaps the best of all time  —   anchoring their team. In the final rotation, Japan took on Russia    in the floor exercise, holding a slim lead of 0. 208 points. Japan went first. After an outstanding score from Kenzo Shirai and a good one from Ryohei Kato, Uchimura locked down the win with a 15. 6. Combined, it was the best team floor exercise score of the night. Russia finished second, and China took the bronze. A second Olympic boxer has been arrested and jailed on charges of sexual assault, a Brazilian police official said Monday, raising concerns over safety at the athletes’ village for the locals who work there. The arrest of the boxer, Jonas Junius of Namibia, came on Sunday after a judicial order requesting it. The authorities transferred Junius from a police precinct to a   prison in Rio de Janeiro on Monday, said a police official, Rodrigo Moreira. The accuser was Brazilian, Moreira said. The boxer “attempted to grab and kiss the cleaning lady” in the hallway of the 11th floor of a building in the Olympic Village on Sunday, the Rio de Janeiro state civil police said in a statement. The woman immediately contacted the police, Moreira said. The arrest came just two days after the Moroccan boxer Hassan Saada was arrested on similar charges, which led to his missing an Olympic bout Saturday and being disqualified for the rest of the Rio Games. He has been transferred to the same prison Junius was sent to on Monday and is serving a   preliminary prison sentence. Junius, who carried his country’s flag in Friday’s opening ceremony, was scheduled to fight Hassan Amzile of France on Thursday in a   bout in the round of 32. —   VINOD SREEHARSHA Swimming: Conor Dwyer won the bronze medal in the men’s   freestyle, missing a silver by 0. 03 seconds when Chad le Clos of South Africa edged him at the wall with a 1:45. 20. Sun Yang of China won the gold in 1:44. 65. Fencing: Ibtihaj Muhammad became the first United States Olympian in any sport to compete at a Games while wearing a hijab. Muhammad won her first match before losing in the round of 16. Tennis: Caroline Wozniacki, Denmark’s   at the opening ceremony, lost to Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic,    . Field Hockey: Having already defeated Argentina, the No.   team in the world, the United States women’s field hockey team did it again on Monday, beating Australia, which is ranked No. 3. Both victories came by a   score. Swimming: The   Olympian Lilly King heads into the   breaststroke as one of only two American women  —   Katie Ledecky is the other  —   to enter the Games with the world’s top time in an event this year. Rugby: Women will receive Olympic medals in rugby for the first time ever when the rugby sevens bronze and gold medal matches are decided.