Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, announced Monday that she would not vote for Donald J. Trump in the presidential election, dealing another blow to Mr. Trump as he tries to unite his party and win more support from women. Ms. Collins revealed her decision in an opinion column for The Washington Post published Monday evening, saying that Mr. Trump’s proclivity for bullying and invective made it impossible for her to support him. She said she believed having Mr. Trump as president would make “an already perilous world” even more dangerous. Ms. Collins is the most senior senator to split publicly with Mr. Trump, and her message of censure could send a message to other Republicans that it is safe to shun the party’s presidential nominee. She is one of the few moderate Republicans remaining in the Senate and one of only two from New England, along with Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, whom Mr. Trump, after some hesitancy, endorsed late last week. Now in her fourth term, Ms. Collins also led the Senate committee that oversees homeland security, adding additional weight to her criticism of Mr. Trump, who has strained to convince     voters that he is prepared to serve as the country’s commander in chief. While Ms. Collins described Mr. Trump as a person who would menace the country’s security, she hit him hardest for playing on the country’s racial and cultural divisions in the course of the presidential campaign. Faulting Mr. Trump for a “constant stream of cruel comments and his inability to admit error or apologize,” Ms. Collins specifically mentioned his attacks on Gonzalo P. Curiel, a federal judge born in Indiana whom Mr. Trump derided for his “Mexican heritage” Khizr and Ghazala Khan, the parents of a slain soldier and a New York Times reporter whom Mr. Trump seemed to mock for a physical disability. “My conclusion about Mr. Trump’s unsuitability for office is based on his disregard for the precept of treating others with respect, an idea that should transcend politics,” Ms. Collins wrote. “Instead, he opts to mock the vulnerable and inflame prejudices by attacking ethnic and religious minorities,” she continued. A spokeswoman for the Trump campaign did not immediately comment on Ms. Collins’s decision. The rebuke from Ms. Collins comes as Mr. Trump seeks to refocus his message in the presidential race, emphasizing themes of economic growth and nationalism rather than narrow political feuds with his own party. Mr. Trump delivered a speech on Monday in Detroit pledging to cut taxes and renegotiate American trade agreements, in an attempt to recover his footing after a debilitating start to the month. Within hours of his address, however, Ms. Collins and a collection of other Republicans had answered Mr. Trump’s grand address with an embarrassing signal of rejection. On Monday, 50 national security leaders who served in Republican administrations signed a letter rejecting his candidacy. In recent weeks, Republicans including Meg Whitman, a   executive and Republican   and Henry M. Paulson Jr. the former Treasury secretary, have broken ranks to back Hillary Clinton. In addition to Ms. Collins, multiple other Republican senators, including Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Mark S. Kirk of Illinois, have said that they will not vote for Mr. Trump under any circumstances. Several other lawmakers, including Senators Jeff Flake of Arizona and Mike Lee of Utah, have withheld their support from Mr. Trump without saying definitively that they will never cast their ballots for him. Ms. Collins’s opposition will probably make it far more difficult for Mr. Trump to compete in Maine, where he campaigned last week in an effort to scoop up at least one Electoral College vote. Ms. Collins is a popular figure there and her denunciation can be expected to land with force. Ms. Collins did not say whom she would vote for.