Even when the dead bodies Zachary Smeltz lifts for a living are hefty, he makes sure to handle even the burliest corpse in a gentle manner, masking any exertion. “Treat every case like that’s your mom that you’re transferring,” is the motto Mr. Smeltz imparts on the staff of the mortuary transport business he owns that sends him all over New Jersey and Pennsylvania and to other locales, picking up bodies. Mr. Smeltz is part of an unusual niche in the labor market: He is among a proliferating group of independent entrepreneurs capitalizing on the need to collect the dead from houses, hospitals, morgues and accident scenes. It is a   link in the chain of      that is growing as places like funeral homes and hospices as well as governments cut their budgets and increasingly outsource the transport of the dead. A   suit unfolding in California has opened a window onto this often lightly regulated industry: Charons of the highway, who shuttle corpses from one place to another. While in some places, like New York, such work must be carried out under the auspices of licensed funeral directors, in others, like New Jersey and Pennsylvania, private contractors without any special permits may pick up bodies. These   services require little more than a driver’s license, a strong stomach and a willingness to be ready to go at a moment’s notice. “There are no holidays in the business,” said Mr. Smeltz, 31, who owns Smeltz’s Mortuary Transportation Company in Lykens, Pa. “There is no banker’s hours on death. ” When it comes to transporting the dead, most people think of a black hearse, with its tinted, curtained windows, ferrying loved ones to their final rest. But before that last, dignified drive, bodies may move far more times  —   from a deathbed to a coroner’s office to a funeral home. In this barely noticed process, the mode of choice is often a nondescript van. In California, a group of drivers has filed suit against their employer, saying they received little training and were forced to remain on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week, using vans they were required to provide and retrofit with a gurney. The drivers said they even had to provide their own body bags. “This lawsuit is important, but litigation is often a temporary fix,” Peter Rukin, a lawyer representing the workers, said. “I would ultimately like to see   state regulation ensuring that workers who perform removals for county coroners’ offices and the private funeral industry receive appropriate labor and health and safety protections. ” Though it is a shadowy and sometimes controversial industry, funeral directors and those who operate the body transport companies say state and local governments are increasingly turning to private contractors as a   measure. George R. Kelder, the executive director of the New Jersey State Funeral Directors Association, argued that the business did not require special certification. “I am not certain that the mere transport of remains requires a license or a registration,” he said. “I think that would add an expense. ” And yet, he acknowledged, without licensing mandates, it is impossible to ensure drivers get essential training, including about how to protect themselves from pathogens. “Just like the police and first responders, they have to be trained in personal protection,” Mr. Kelder said. “It’s not merely lifting up the weight. ” Others in the funeral industry contend the body transport business should be more strictly regulated. “There are some states you don’t even have to be a funeral director,” said Scott M. Schmidt, the president of the New York State Association of County Coroners and Medical Examiners. “You just hang a shingle on a wall and you’re an undertaker all of a sudden. ” Rules regarding who may transport remains are set on a state level and vary widely, so determining how many require special certification for drivers of remains is difficult. New York State has some of the stricter requirements: Generally, the only people allowed to transport bodies are licensed funeral directors or someone designated by a coroner or a medical examiner. In New York City, the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner has dedicated drivers to collect bodies, according to a spokeswoman. The purpose of New York’s stringent regulation, Mr. Schmidt said, is “so you’re not sending out Joe the Plumber to pick up Grandma at the nursing home. ” Curtis Johnson, 63, was a butcher before he became a body transporter in 2012 for Serenity Transportation, a company based in California that employs over 70 drivers, and is a defendant in the lawsuit. California is among the states that do not require drivers to be specially certified to transport human remains. Shifts for drivers often begin with a text message of a location. “It’s like a firefighter, you jump up, throw your clothes on and you go,” said Mr. Johnson, who says he received rudimentary training on manipulating a body, but no other instruction such as counseling for the difficult situations that are endemic to the job. “Sometimes people get angry at you,” he said. “You’re taking their loved one away. They are very stoic, they are very together, and as soon as you start to move that body, they fall apart. ” Jeff Hubins, a lawyer defending Serenity, said that the drivers were correctly classified as independent contractors and therefore properly compensated. Michael Neel runs First Call Care, a transport company based in Monmouth County, N. J. Though the state does not require certification to transport bodies, Mr. Neel is a licensed funeral director, a designation that he feels gives him a competitive edge. He has about dozen clients for whom he picks up bodies in a van that he also uses for chores like grocery shopping. “With the economy and everything, funeral homes and other places are not hiring full time,” he said. “This gives them the opportunity to call me when they need me and they can save money that way. ” But even some drivers who work for licensed funeral directors, like Kevin S. Courtney, 50, a driver in Clarksburg, W. Va. who drove for a funeral home, said the business could sometimes feel crude. His job interview consisted of one question: Did he have a driver’s license? “It seems to me that there’s probably not a lot of people rushing to take this job, just because of the whole ick factor,” he said. He quit after just a month in 2012, believing it was undignified. “I thought there would be this beautiful   vehicle, all velvet in the back,” he said. “It was a van that if it drove through my neighborhood I’d maybe call the police. ” Mr. Smeltz, the driver from Pennsylvania, transports bodies in a Dodge Caravan. The manner, not the mode, is what matters, he says. “You don’t stop at the hardware store with a body in the back to get something,” he said. “Whether it’s a hearse or a van or a Suburban, it’s still the way you treat that person from Point A to Point B. ”