Tony Rosato, who was a cast member of the sketch shows “Saturday Night Live” and “SCTV” in the 1980s, but whose career ground to a halt when mental illness led to his incarceration in the 2000s, died on Tuesday at his home in Toronto. He was 62. His death was confirmed by his agent Ryan Goldhar, who said the cause had not been confirmed but appeared to be a heart attack. Mr. Rosato, an energetic actor and madcap impressionist, got his start with the Toronto company of the Second City improvisational troupe. In 1977 he became a performer and writer for “SCTV” (originally titled “Second City Television”) whose cast over the years would also feature Martin Short, John Candy, Catherine O’Hara and Rick Moranis. Mr. Rosato’s signature “SCTV” character was Marcello, a clumsy and frequently soused   host. In 1981, Mr. Rosato and his “SCTV” colleague Robin Duke moved to “Saturday Night Live,” joining a cast headed by Eddie Murphy and Joe Piscopo. He did not make much of an impression and left “S. N. L. ” after only one season. He later played recurring roles on the Canadian police drama “Night Heat” and did   work on cartoon shows. He worked steadily until the  . But then he began to unravel. In 2005 Mr. Rosato’s wife, Leah, left him and took their young daughter, citing his increasingly erratic behavior. He contacted the police that spring, claiming that his daughter had been abused and, later, that his family had been replaced by  . On May 5 he went to a police station to file a missing persons report about his family and was arrested and charged with criminal harassment. Mr. Rosato, who refused to acknowledge his mental illness, did not plead guilty and spent the next two years in a   facility awaiting trial. News media reports attributed the gap between Mr. Rosato’s arrest and trial to a combination of his intractability and the punitive approach of the Canadian authorities. “Tony Rosato will have spent more time in custody on a harassment charge than any other convicted prisoner in Canada has ever spent on the same charges,” his lawyer, Daniel Brodsky, told The Toronto Star before his trial finally began in 2007. A judge found Mr. Rosato guilty of criminal harassment that September. He was remanded to a psychiatric hospital, where he was found to have Capgras syndrome, a rare mental illness characterized by the delusion that loved ones have been replaced by impostors. At the hospital, he was required for the first time to take antipsychotic medication, and his delusions eventually abated. Mr. Rosato was released in 2009 and soon returned to work. He told The Toronto Star that he was thrilled to be free but that recovering from his ordeal would take time. “Four years being inside is very hard on the spirit,” he said. Antonio Rosato was born on Dec. 26, 1954, in Naples, Italy. He moved to Canada with his family when he was a boy and became a naturalized citizen in 1966. After graduating from Oakwood Collegiate Institute in Toronto, he began studying chiropractic medicine at the University of Toronto but dropped out to become a performer. Mr. Rosato’s marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his daughter, Giulietta Rosato.