RIO DE JANEIRO  —   For most athletes at the Olympics, a gold, silver or bronze medal is the ultimate payoff for years of training and sacrifice. But when the American wrestlers take to the mats at the Rio Games, they stand to head home with a lot of green, too. One wrestler could earn half a million dollars for winning a second consecutive gold medal, and his teammates could also take home substantial earnings for finishing first, second or third, making their potential paydays the envy of athletes not named Phelps or Bolt. The bonuses would come courtesy of a fraternity of   former wrestlers, several of whom happen to have made it big on Wall Street. Together, they have endowed wrestling to a degree that other Olympic sports can only dream about. In other words, they are rich and obsessed. Chief among them are Michael E. Novogratz, a private equity tycoon who wrestled at Princeton, and David Barry, who wrestled at Columbia and is the president of Ironstate Development Company. They aim to give a lift to a sport that was nearly booted from the Olympic program several years ago. “Wrestlers have to cobble enough to live on to train for four or eight years, so winning $250, 000 is nice,” Novogratz said. “They can use it as nest eggs. ” Jordan Burroughs received $250, 000 for winning a freestyle wrestling gold medal in the   ( ) division at the London Games four years ago and would receive $500, 000 for successfully defending his title at the Rio Games. He used his London payoff to buy a house and pay for his wedding, among other things. “It’s great any time you get an extra incentive, in addition to being the strongest man on the planet,” said Burroughs, who has received $415, 000 for his Olympic and world championship medals since 2011. “There’s not a lot of money floating around in the sport, so it’s key for us to compete at our best in the Olympic Games. ” The rewards offset the lack of endorsement deals and American government funding for the Olympians. While the Olympics once celebrated amateurism, nowadays the biggest names at the Games  —   like Michael Phelps in swimming, the Jamaican Usain Bolt in track and the American Kerri Walsh Jennings in beach volleyball  —   are able to secure   endorsement deals after winning Olympic gold. At least in the United States, wrestling has few household names, and wrestlers, like athletes in other   Olympic sports, must make do with far less. Participation in collegiate wrestling has been in decline for years, and those wrestlers interested in staying in the sport have had little choice but to join World Wrestling Entertainment, which is orchestrated, or mixed martial arts, where the action is far from the ancient grappling at wrestling’s roots. In 2009, Novogratz and Barry   an existing but modest fund, which they rebranded the Living the Dream Medal Fund. It helps wrestlers continue wrestling and motivates others to keep trying. They then recruited   former wrestlers with deep pockets, including Andrew F. Barth, a portfolio manager at Capital Group who wrestled at Columbia James G. Dinan, the founder and chief executive of York Capital Management, who has sons who wrestle and David H McCormick, who wrestled at West Point and is the president of the hedge fund Bridgewater Associates. So deep is their passion for the sport that they sprinkle discussion of financial trades with wrestling jargon like “takedown” and “pin. ” “You have to find someone who’s wealthy and loves wrestling,” Novogratz said. “They’re out there, but you have to find them. It’s like being an ancient Spartan, doing the right thing. ” So far, the fund has dispersed $1. 225 million to male and female wrestlers who have won medals at the Olympics and the world championships, a windfall on top of the prize money from the United States Olympic Committee  —   which pays $25, 000 to gold medalists, $15, 000 to silver medalists and $10, 000 to bronze medalists  —   and from U. S. A. Wrestling, which pays smaller amounts. The Living the Dream fund poured in tens of thousands of dollars more, bringing the total prize money to $250, 000 for an Olympic gold, $50, 000 for a silver and $25, 000 for a bronze. “We wanted something that would be an   number,” Barry, an   League wrestler at Columbia, said. “We wanted to celebrate the spirit of competition. ” The gold mine dwarfs what federations in other Olympic sports pay American medalists. Rowers who win medals, for instance, receive awards only from the United States Olympic Committee, while U. S. A. Shooting divided $198, 000 among the four American medalists in London. Backed by sponsors like Nike, BMW and Visa, U. S. A. Track  Field expects to pay its Olympians a total of about $3 million this year. Each of the 129 athletes who made it to Rio was paid $10, 000, and another $1. 3 million in bonuses was paid based on where they finished at the Olympic trials. Medalists in Rio will earn even more. On an individual basis, though, Burroughs and Jake Varner hit the jackpot at the London Games four years ago: They each received $250, 000 for winning a gold medal. Two other wrestlers won $25, 000 for placing third. (The awards for medals at the world championships are far smaller.) Novogratz was so excited about Burroughs’s and Varner’s wins in 2012 that he offered to double the prize if either wrestler won another gold medal in Rio. Varner, who won in London at   (211 pounds) did not qualify for these Olympics, but on Aug. 18, Burroughs has a chance to earn $500, 000 for one day’s work. As Burroughs tells it, after he graduated from the University of Nebraska, he was scraping by until he won gold at the world championships in 2011 and then struck gold in London. Winning a second Olympic gold, in Rio, would help him continue wrestling through 2020, when the Summer Games will be in Tokyo. Burroughs tries to remain modest about his achievements, but he said it was only fair that he and other wrestlers were rewarded given their long workouts, the injuries they face and the other sacrifices they make. “I consider myself one of the best athletes in the world, and there’s a little bit of anger and jealousy to athletes in other sports who perhaps put in a fraction of the work as wrestlers,” he said. The spoils can be even more lavish in countries like Russia, where wrestling medalists can receive apartments, cars and national acclaim. But even they have taken note of the prize money available to Americans, said Elena Pirozhkova, who as a child moved to the United States from Russia and will wrestle in Rio for the United States. “Everybody talks about it, and I can speak Russian, and they’re always asking what the U. S. pays,” she said. Pirozhkova, who will compete at   (139 pounds) and Burroughs said they occasionally thought about the potential payday and how the money could change their lives, but they have to block out those thoughts once their matches begin. “Wrestling is such a tricky sport,” said Pirozhkova, who has used her $65, 000 from the fund to help her mother buy a house. “Everything has to be fast. Your life can change in a couple of hours. ”