RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Simone Manuel managed to make history and break a record, all in less than a minute. Manuel became the first   woman to win an individual event in Olympic swimming on Thursday night. She and Penny Oleksiak of Canada tied for the fastest time, an Olympic record in the women’s   freestyle: 52. 70 seconds. “I definitely think it raises some awareness and will get them inspired,” Manuel, 20, said about the significance of her accomplishment. “I mean, the gold medal wasn’t just for me. It was for people that came before me and inspired me to stay in the sport. For people who believe that they can’t do it, I hope I’m an inspiration to others to get out there and try swimming. You might be pretty good at it. ” Manuel is sharing a room with another   American swimmer, Katie Ledecky, in the athletes’ village here. She and Oleksiak shaved 0. 01 seconds off the Olympic standard of 52. 71, set earlier in the Rio Games meet by Australia’s Cate Campbell. Sweden’s Sarah Sjostrom won the bronze in 52. 99. The last time an American won gold in the event was 1984, when Nancy Hogshead and Carrie Steinseifer also tied and shared the gold medal with a time of 55. 92 seconds. Several black swimmers have won Olympic medals for the United States. The first black woman to make an American Olympic team was Maritza Correia, a member of the   freestyle relay team that won silver at the 2004 Athens Games. (Her parents were from Guyana she was born and raised in Puerto Rico.) Lia Neal, a Brooklyn native, won a bronze in a relay at the 2012 London Games and a silver in a relay here at the Rio Games. Anthony Ervin and Cullen Jones, who are black, have won Olympic gold medals. Both Manuel and Oleksiak had to come from behind to take the victory on Thursday night. Manuel was third at the halfway mark, while Oleksiak was seventh at the turn. At the finish, Manuel looked at the scoreboard and seemed surprised and thrilled, covering her mouth with her hand. “I was pretty shocked,” said Manuel, who is from Sugar Land, Tex. and attends Stanford. “My goal coming in was to get on the medal stand after seeing how I swam in prelims and semifinals. But getting a gold medal in my first Olympics, I still can’t describe it but I’m really excited about it. ” In case anybody had doubts, Simone Biles made it official: she’s the best gymnast in the world. The American dominated the women’s   competition on her way to a gold medal Thursday. In doing so, she joined Mary Lou Retton, Carly Patterson, Nastia Liukin and Gabby Douglas as American   winners. Aly Raisman (U. S.) won the silver, and Aliya Mustafina (Russia) won bronze. Read about Biles’s gold medal performance here. See the moves she pulled off here. Here’s why Simone Biles is the unbeatable gymnast. Michael Phelps won the 200 individual medley easily, beating not only teammate Ryan Lochte, but an ancient Greek. Leonidas of Rhodes won 12 individual events over four Olympics. At 36, five years older than Phelps, he won his last three golds in 152 B. C. in races of about 200 and 400 meters and in a   race. It wasn’t easy, but Phelps surpassed Leonidas, winning his 13th individual gold (and 22nd gold overall and 26th medal). With the victory, Phelps also joined the track and field Olympians Al Oerter and Carl Lewis as the only Americans to win an individual event four times. Phelps was timed in 1 minute 54. 66. He won by over a bodylength, and the time was his   ever behind a 1:54. 23 from Beijing. He held up four fingers afterward to indicate his four consecutive victories in the event. Japan’s Kosuke Hagino took the silver. Lochte finished fifth. Read about Phelps’s big victory here. Watch Michael Phelps versus Michael Phelps through the years. In the final judo match of her career, Kayla Harrison won her second straight gold medal, then pondered her future at age 26. With just seconds to go in the gold medal match, Harrison caught Audrey Tcheumeo of France in an armlock to gain the submission. “She dropped to the mat, I saw the arm, I saw the opening and I took it,” Harrison said. Harrison had ripped through her earlier opponents: Zhang Zhehui of China in 42 seconds, Abigel Joo of Hungary in 1:45, and Anamari Velensek in 1:43 on the way to the final. Every match was won by ippon, the highest score a fighter can achieve. Harrison’s gold medal in 2012 was the first ever for the United States in judo. Her gold on Thursday is the second. Harrison said she would retire from judo. “My job is to grow the sport and show my passion for it. ” Asked if she would follow in the footsteps of the most famous former judo player, the Olympic bronze medalist Ronda Rousey, now a mixed martial arts fighter, Harrison demurred: “It’s such a different atmosphere from the Olympic stage. I don’t know if I’m cut out for a world where you get fights by how pretty you are and how you talk. ” But, she acknowledged, “Who doesn’t want to be rich and famous? It is tempting. ”  —   VICTOR MATHER Fiji wins its first gold: It started in 1956, when five athletes, two sailors, two boxers and a discus thrower traveled to Melbourne for the Olympics. They represented Fiji, the South Pacific nation. None of them won a medal. The result was the same at every subsequent Olympics, including a few forays into the Winter Games. At this year’s soccer competition, Fiji lost its three games,     and  . But there was hope. Rugby, Fiji’s national sport, was being added to the Games for 2016. Fiji has advanced as far as the quarterfinals of the Rugby World Cup against much bigger and wealthier countries. And the version being added, rugby sevens, with its faster play and smaller teams, suited a country like Fiji, with a population of only 900, 000. Fiji had been sevens world champions in 1995 and 2005. On Thursday, the Fiji men’s sevens team finally landed the country its first medal. A gold one. Fiji beat its former colonial ruler, Britain, by   to win the inaugural men’s rugby sevens competition. Back with an ace: Golf returned to the Games on Thursday for the first time since 1904, and it did not take long for the first Olympic    in more than a century. Justin Rose of Britain aced the   fourth hole at the Olympic Golf Course. Marcus Fraser of Australia shot an    63 to win the round. Different sports require different body types, right? Volleyball players are usually long and lean. Weight lifters, not so much. So we asked a bunch of Olympians and Paralympians to strip down to their underwear (or whatever they felt comfortable with) so you could try to guess which sport they compete in. How many can you guess correctly? The playing of the United States’ national anthem at Olympic medal ceremonies is bringing tears to the eyes of American athletes here. Elsewhere, the song is having a very different effect. “It is driving me crazy,” said Jason DeBord, a    living in Ann Arbor, Mich. “I hit the mute button, or I make dinner, or I just sit there and brace myself. ” DeBord has nothing against displays of patriotism, nor is he simply eager to return to the action. What irritates him is the version of “The   Banner” being used at the Olympics. Put bluntly, it has been butchered. Listen to the “other” version of our national anthem.