 (CNN) We are in the midst of the WORLD’S WORST refugee crisis in history. A crisis that brings with it overwhelming numbers, huge challenges for countries and communities affected, untold misery    and hope.  More than 65 MILLION people are now counted as forcibly displaced by the United Nations. That’s like the entire population of the UK or France, or about as many as everyone in New York state, Texas and Florida    all forced from their homes. Just over   are refugees, people forced to flee their countries because of persecution, war, or violence. CHILDREN are disproportionately affected    more than half of refugees are under 18. Amanpour: What my son and I learned at a Syrian refugee camp, MORE PEOPLE are displaced every day    You could fill about 630 school buses with people forced from their homes. Every day. The story of one rescuer and a desperate day at sea, On the run in their own countries  WAR is a major factor. More than half of refugees come from three   countries    Syria, Afghanistan and Somalia, the UN says.  Others flee FAMINE or PERSECUTION. Starvation is stalking millions in Africa in 2017. And in Myanmar, there are about 1 million Rohingyas    a persecuted ethnic and religious minority who say they are being increasingly targeted and attacked.  Some take refuge in the first safe place they find. Others journey on, risking all, in the hopes of finding a better new life. 360 Video: Inside a refugee camp  DEVELOPING COUNTRIES host the greatest number of refugees.  Only 1% of refugees are RESETTLED IN ANY ONE YEAR. 37 MOSTLY RICHER NATIONS work with the United Nations to accept refugees for resettlement. 150, 000 got new homes in 2016.  How the US screens refugees (very carefully)  How some European countries are tightening their refugee policies, In 2017, the modern world is kicking up some SURPRISES    such as refugees leaving the US for Canada.   But much continues to be the same. Familes feeling compelled to leave their homes and almost everything else behind. The human tide welcomed by some, rejected by others. And the key thing that is not changing    the numbers show no signs of reducing. How to help, Here are resources from CNN’s Impact Your World team:  The ongoing migrant crisisSyrians hit by the civil warIraqis fleeing Mosul Famine victims in East Africa Afghans suffering through years of conflict 