 (CNN) Even if Andrew Landry never wins a major title, he is already assured of a place in golf’s history books. The PGA Tour rookie, making his first appearance in one of golf’s four biggest tournaments, claimed the early lead at the   U. S. Open on Friday. His    66 is the lowest   score carded at the tough Oakmont course in the nine occasions it has hosted America’s national golf event. The    went one better than legendary duo Ben Hogan (1953) and Gary Player (1973) returning to the course early Friday morning to sink a   birdie putt. It turned out to be his only shot of the day    Landry will start his second round on Saturday. Read: The Clubhouse   How storms disrupted opening round, ”I’m going to go do some laundry and take a nap,” the Texan said after carding his best score this season. Ranked 624th in the world, Landry has missed six halfway cuts in 11 starts in his first PGA Tour campaign, with a best finish of 41st. However, he is hopeful of a better result than that on a notoriously difficult course at a tournament known for its testing layouts. ”I like a golf course where par is a good score,” Landry said. ”I’m not going to overpower a golf course. No one is going to make a bunch of birdies (at the U. S. Open) and I feel like my game is so straight that I can hit it in tighter fairways.” Read: Waterlogged golfers watch soccer instead, Thunderstorms meant only nine players completed their opening rounds on Thursday. Landry claimed a   lead from more seasoned veterans Dustin Johnson of the U. S. and Englishman Lee Westwood. Those two are still seeking their first major titles, but Landry may have a small edge    his coach Chuck Cook has guided Tom Kite, Payne Stewart and Corey Pavin to U. S. Open victories. ”When he plays a course where par is a really good score, he tends to be in contention,” Cook told the PGA Tour website. ”He feels like he can win any tournament he gets into. He’s always played tough.” Read: Is this the world’s toughest golf course? Defending champion Jordan Spieth was six shots back after a 72 featuring four bogeys, while world No. 1 Jason Day suffered even more with a 76.   Rory McIlroy topped that with a 77, dropping shots at his last three holes on Friday, and the 2011 U. S. Open champion’s playing partners fared little better. Danny Willett, who won his first major at April’s Masters, signed for a 75 while world No. 5 Rickie Fowler made 76. Read: The ’doctor’ who is changing golf, Veteran Phil Mickelson, a record     in this tournament, started his bid to complete his major collection with a 74. Another U. S. Open debutant,    Wes Short Jr. could not emulate Landry’s fairytale beginning. The American carded 78, with one triple bogey and another double. Who will win the U. S. Open? Have your say on our Facebook page, Like this story? Get more at cnn. 