RIO DE JANEIRO  —   At her second Olympics, Katie Ledecky experienced what was for her a Games first: She touched the wall not knowing if she had won. The   freestyle was her third career individual final, and Ledecky’s margin of victory was   of a second, a microfraction of time virtually imperceptible to the untrained eye. When she finishes her last individual event on Friday, viewers might wonder if there was anyone else in the pool. If recent form holds, the gap between Ledecky and the silver medalist in the   freestyle will reflect her dominance more powerfully than the gold medal she receives afterward. All Olympic winners get one of those. Ledecky, 19 and soon to be a freshman at Stanford, deserves Advanced Placement credits for her elevated margins of victory. In a sport where races often are settled by tenths of a second, Ledecky won the   freestyle in 2012 by 4. 13 seconds and the 400 freestyle on Sunday by 4. 77 seconds. On Thursday, she qualified first in the   freestyle, finishing 6. 57 seconds ahead of her nearest competitor. Most expect an even larger margin of victory in the final on Friday night. It is not often that a rival says, “I knew she was going to win,” as the American Leah Smith did while talking about Ledecky after the 400 freestyle final. But then, it has been nearly a   since the swimming world has seen a female swimmer as dominant as Ledecky. With a victory in the 800, she will join Debbie Meyer as the only swimmers to win the 200, 400 and 800 freestyles in a single Games. But the talent level was   deep in Meyer’s day. The eight women she beat in the 800 final in Mexico City came from four countries.   years later, it is   deep, with seven nations set to be represented in Friday’s   final. Still, at the last two major international events preceding the Rio Games, Ledecky won the   freestyle easily: by 6. 52 seconds at the 2014 Pan Pacific Championships in Australia and by 10. 26 seconds at the 2015 world championships in Kazan, Russia. Her competition on Friday will include many of the same women she vanquished at those meets, with the notable exception of New Zealand’s Lauren Boyle, the   both times, who fell one spot short of the final in qualifying. For the past three years, Ledecky has geared her training toward swimming fast here. Already, she has broken her world record in the 400 freestyle. And there is no reason to believe that her 800 record of 8:06. 68, which is nearly nine seconds faster than the personal best of the   finalist, is safe. Sure, Ledecky has raced 2, 600 meters, including relays, since the meet got underway Saturday. But having watched her set a world record in bad weather in an outdoor pool at the Pan Pacific Championships, her coach, Bruce Gemmell, said he did not believe the long, late nights of racing here would slow her. “I saw how focused she was there, she has a unique gift to do that,” he said. “She did it in wind and sleet and rain. Now she can do it in dorms and buses and late nights. ” Ledecky owns the 12   fastest performances in the 800. She has lowered the world record four times since 2013, most recently at a meet in Austin, Tex. in January, when she finished 21. 63 seconds ahead of the  . Smith, the other American entrant in Friday’s 800 final, finished fourth in that race. “I literally heard the guy go, ‘New world record! ’” Smith said, referring to the meet announcer. “And I had just flipped for my last 50. ” She added, “I was kind of like, ‘Well, this is probably not a good race for me. ’” Ledecky’s preliminary swim Thursday broke the    Olympic record but was a relatively tight race by her standards. Following Gemmell’s instructions “not to take a hard stroke,” Ledecky coasted to an 8:12. 86. She dragged her legs, not bothering to kick, over the last 600 meters  —   fully   of the race  —   and still finished 6. 57 seconds ahead of Hungary’s Boglarka Kapas. Smith was 8. 57 seconds back, in fourth. A lot can happen, and has happened, at the Olympics in the 10. 26 seconds that Ledecky spent waiting for the   to finish at last summer’s world championships: Justin Gatlin running the 100 meters Serena Williams winning a point off her serve Tom Daley falling to earth from the   platform Simone Biles nailing a vault the skeet shooter Vincent Hancock hitting a target. Some athletes would relish having so much time to have the applause to themselves. They might preen and poke the air with their index finger. Ledecky is not one of them. After checking her time on the scoreboard, peeling off her caps, removing her goggles and glancing at the Team U. S. A. cheering section, Ledecky typically hangs from the wall or treads water until there is a   finisher to congratulate. “I don’t really think about much in between,” she said. Ledecky cannot leave her lane until the other swimmers finish. It is perhaps the only time she knows the feeling of being a prisoner of her success. Gemmell was asked if Ledecky was recognized often in the athletes’ village. “No, not truthfully,” he said, adding, “It’s great. ”