Katie Ledecky did what Katie Ledecky does best  —   leave her rivals deep in her wake  —   on her way to smashing the world in record in the   freestyle. Ledecky’s final margin of victory was 11. 38 seconds over Britain’s Jazz Carlin, who clocked a 8:16. 17,   of a second better than Hungary’s Boglarka Kapas. Here’s how Ledecky broke the record. The favorites in the other marquee events didn’t fare as well. Katinka Hosszu, who had already won three golds in Rio, was chased down by American Maya DiRado in the   backstroke. Hosszu led for the first 180 meters. DiRado caught her near the wall and touched it first, finishing in 2 minutes 05. 99 seconds. Hosszu’s time was 2:06. 05. It was second gold medal, and fourth over all, at the Rio Games for DiRado, 23. Here’s how DiRado did it. And somebody finally beat Michael Phelps in Rio. His name’s Joseph Schooling, and he topped Phelps in the   butterfly. Read about how he beat Phelps here. An Egyptian judoka declined to shake hands with his Israeli opponent after their match on Friday, eliciting jeers from the audience. Or Sasson of Israel defeated Islam El Shehaby of Egypt in a   match in the heaviest weight class. After a moment of prayer, El Shehaby got up and seemed reluctant to perform the traditional bow to his opponent. Eventually, he gave a quick nod and left the mat. A judge and referee urged him to return. Sasson then approached El Shehaby with his hand extended, but El Shehaby backed away. After a moment, Sasson gave up. “That is extremely rare in judo,” the American coach Jimmy Pedro said. “It is especially disrespectful considering it was a clean throw and a fair match. It was completely dishonorable and totally unsportsmanlike on the part of the Egyptian. ” Sasson went on to win a bronze medal in the event, which was won by the French legend Teddy Riner. Read the entire story here. • The United States women’s soccer team lost to an old friend, Pia Sundhage, who used to coach the Americans but now leads the Swedes. After a   draw in the quarterfinal, Sweden beat the United States on penalty kicks, eliminating the Americans without a medal. Hope Solo blasted the Swedish team after the loss, saying they had played like “a bunch of cowards. ” • The first medal event at track and field was a memorable one as Almaz Ayana of Ethiopia broke the world record in the women’s 10, 000 meters by more than 14 seconds. Ayana, 24, finished in 29 minutes 17. 45 seconds, ahead of the previous mark of 29:31. 78, set by Wang Junxia of China in 1993. Vivian Cheruiyot of Kenya was a distant second, at 29:32. 53. Tirunesh Dibaba of Ethiopia, who won the past two Olympic   races, took bronze. • Six Olympics for Kim Rhode, and now six Olympic medals. Rhode, 37, won a bronze medal in skeet shooting on Friday. Rhode had won a gold medal in the double trap event at age 17 at the Atlanta Olympics and added a medal at every Summer Games since. Her six medals tie Jackie   for most individual Olympic medals by a United States woman. • The American men’s foil fencing team won a bronze medal on Friday, the first medal for the United States in the event since 1932. Alexander Massialas was the silver medalist in the individual event, and Miles   has a flamboyant fencing move named after him, but it was another member of the team, Gerek Meinhardt, who was the key. Meinhardt broke open a tightly contested bronze medal match against Italy with an   shellacking of Andrea Baldini, a former world champion, and put the United States in the lead to stay. The final score was  . “I didn’t fence great against Egypt and Russia,” Meinhardt said, of the day’s earlier matches. “Finally I broke through. Frustration motivated me. ” The substitute Race Imboden rounded out the American team. He fought just one bout but won,   and hollered at the audience in delight. The same four fencers had finished in the dreaded fourth position in London in 2012. Imboden said the   camaraderie between the fencer was crucial to their success. “We’ve all known each other since we’ve been 10 years old. ” After the victory,   gave Imboden a piggyback ride as the delighted team celebrated. • The   butterfly is the 18th and final individual event of Michael Phelps’s career. Although with Phelps, you never know. He will try to win his fourth consecutive Olympic gold medal in the event, a feat he accomplished in the   individual medley on Thursday. With a victory in the 800 freestyle, Katie Ledecky will become the second swimmer, joining Debbie Meyer in 1968, to win the 200, 400 and   freestyles in the same Olympics. Anthony Ervin, 35, is the oldest member of the United States swim team. If he can win the   freestyle, he will supplant Phelps as the oldest swimmer to win individual Olympic gold. Phelps, 31, this week surpassed Duke Kahanamoku, who won the 100 free at the 1920 Olympics at the age of 30. • The United States men’s basketball team got a   call against Australia before winning by 10 on Wednesday. The Americans probably won’t hit the snooze alarm against Serbia. The U. S. women take on Canada. Simone Manuel managed to make history and break a record, all in less than a minute. Manuel became the first   woman to win an individual event in Olympic swimming on Thursday night. She and Penny Oleksiak of Canada tied for the fastest time, an Olympic record in the women’s   freestyle: 52. 70 seconds. “I definitely think it raises some awareness and will get them inspired,” Manuel, 20, said about the significance of her accomplishment. “I mean, the gold medal wasn’t just for me. It was for people that came before me and inspired me to stay in the sport. For people who believe that they can’t do it, I hope I’m an inspiration to others to get out there and try swimming. You might be pretty good at it. ” Manuel is sharing a room with another   American swimmer, Katie Ledecky, in the athletes’ village here. She and Oleksiak shaved 0. 01 seconds off the Olympic standard of 52. 71, set earlier in the Rio Games meet by Australia’s Cate Campbell. Sweden’s Sarah Sjostrom won the bronze in 52. 99. There has been a great deal of frustration this at the Rio Games, where the table tennis balls are giving players fits. They don’t bounce true, the players said. Their flight paths are unpredictable. And they frequently break. “I think this ball is very bad,” Li Ping of Qatar said after losing a match. The player who beat him, Dimitrij Ovtcharov of Germany, fumed that the official competition ball “makes it almost impossible to compete. ” Read Andrew Keh’s story on the table tennis problem here. Biles Claims the Crown: In case anybody had doubts, Simone Biles made it official: she’s the best gymnast in the world. The American dominated the women’s   competition on her way to a gold medal Thursday. In doing so, she joined Mary Lou Retton, Carly Patterson, Nastia Liukin and Gabby Douglas as American   winners. Aly Raisman (U. S.) won the silver, and Aliya Mustafina (Russia) won bronze. Read about Biles’s gold medal performance here. See the moves she pulled off here. Phelps Breaks an Ancient Record: Michael Phelps won the 200 individual medley easily, beating not only teammate Ryan Lochte, but an ancient Greek. Leonidas of Rhodes won 12 individual events over four Olympics. At 36, five years older than Phelps, he won his last three golds in 152 B. C. in races of about 200 and 400 meters and in a   race. It wasn’t easy, but Phelps surpassed Leonidas, winning his 13th individual gold (and 22nd gold overall and 26th medal). With the victory, Phelps also joined the track and field Olympians Al Oerter and Carl Lewis as the only Americans to win an individual event four times. Phelps was timed in 1 minute 54. 66. He won by over a bodylength, and the time was his   ever behind a 1:54. 23 from Beijing. He held up four fingers afterward to indicate his four consecutive victories in the event. Japan’s Kosuke Hagino took the silver. Lochte finished fifth. Read about Phelps’s big victory here. Watch Michael Phelps versus Michael Phelps through the years.