Washington (CNN) Hillary Clinton leads Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential race, two new polls of registered voters show    but they differ on the size of her advantage.  A Washington   News survey shows Clinton ahead by 12 points, 51% to 39%.  A Wall Street   News poll, meanwhile, pegs Clinton’s lead at 5 points, 46% to 41%.  Trump is emerging from a difficult phase in his campaign, including the firing of campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, anemic fundraising and widespread blowback from his party over his labeling of an   federal judge as ”Mexican” and therefore biased in his Trump University legal proceedings.  The   Clinton advantage would suggest those controversies have badly damaged Trump    but the   lead would indicate he’d survived the last month largely unscathed.   Another example of the widely differing results: When   choices like Libertarian Gary Johnson are factored in, the Washington   News poll showed Clinton still ahead by 10 points, while her lead shrank to 1 point in the Wall Street   News survey.  Tweeted Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort: ”I prefer   poll.” The Washington   News poll found a number of troubling signs for Trump.  Of those polled, 61% said Clinton is qualified to be president, while 64% said Trump is not qualified.  By a better than    margin, voters said Clinton, not Trump, has a better personality and temperament to serve as president. While 50% said the idea of Clinton as president makes them anxious, 70% said the same of Trump.  And while Clinton’s use of a private email server is damaging    56% said they disapprove of how she’s handling questions about it    Trump has been more severely damaged by controversies surrounding him: 66% say they think he’s unfairly biased against minorities 68% said his attacks on the judge were racist and 59% disapprove of the way he has handled questions about Trump University.  The Wall Street   News poll found Clinton with huge leads among minorities    besting Trump 87% to 5% among   and 69% to 22% with Latinos.  She leads with women, 52% to 35% while Trump holds the edge among white voters at 49% to 37% men, 48% to 38% and independents, 40% to 30%. ”The fact that Donald Trump had a really bad period and he went down just a few points indicates that it will be difficult for either candidate to break out given the   division in the electorate,” Fred Yang, a Democratic pollster who conducted the poll with Republican pollster Bill McInturff, told The Wall Street Journal.  The Washington   News poll surveyed 1, 001 adults between June   with a margin of error of plus or minus 3. 5 percentage points. The Wall Street   poll surveyed 1, 000 registered voters between June   with a margin of error of plus or minus 3. 1 percentage points.