Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin activated the Wisconsin National Guard on Sunday to assist local law enforcement following a night of violence in Milwaukee that began hours after a police officer fatally shot a fleeing armed man there. Angry crowds confronted the police in Milwaukee on Saturday night, setting fires and throwing rocks following the shooting that afternoon. One fire, at a gas station in the Sherman Park neighborhood, burned unattended while gunshots kept firefighters from extinguishing it. Other fires burned at an   store, a beauty supply company and a bank branch. One police officer was hospitalized with a head injury after a brick was thrown through the window of his patrol car, Mayor Tom Barrett said at a news conference early Sunday morning. The police reported just before 3:30 a. m. that order was being restored to the area. In a statement, Governor Walker praised volunteer   efforts on Sunday morning. “This act of selfless caring sets a powerful example for Milwaukee’s youth and the entire community,” he said. “I join Milwaukee’s leaders and citizens in calling for continued peace and prayer. ” Mr. Walker noted that, under Wisconsin law, the shooting was being examined by an independent investigation and asked that people give law enforcement “the respect they deserve for working so hard to keep us safe. ” Mr. Walker said he decided to make the National Guard available to provide assistance upon request after consulting with the mayor of Milwaukee and the Milwaukee County sheriff. Three people were arrested on unspecified charges during the mayhem, in which crowds of at least 200 people filled the streets, said Assistant Chief James Harpole of the Milwaukee police. The shooting and protests come as communities across the nation scrutinize what many see as excessive use of force by law enforcement officers, particularly against black people. Protests broke out across the country last year after a police officer in Madison, Wis. fatally shot an unarmed biracial man. The race and identity of the officer and the man shot and killed on Saturday were not immediately released. Many of the protesters were black, and Alderman Khalif J. Rainey expressed the frustration within the community. “The black people of Milwaukee are tired,” he said. “They’re tired of living under this oppression. “What has happened may not have been right,” Mr. Rainey said, “I’m not justifying that, but nobody can deny that there are racial problems here in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, that have to be rectified, because if you don’t, you’re one day away. ” The Saturday shooting came after more violence in Milwaukee. Five people were shot and killed overnight Friday, Mr. Barrett said at a news conference recorded by The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel earlier on Saturday. At least two of those occurred near where the officer shot the man on Saturday. The violence overnight Saturday erupted after an officer killed a man who the police said was armed with a semiautomatic handgun and who fled after a traffic stop. The police said two uniformed officers stopped two people in a car at about 3:30 p. m. on Saturday. The police did not provide details on why the car was stopped, though Mr. Barrett said the episode began when police spotted a “suspicious vehicle. ” Both occupants ran from the car. During the pursuit, Mr. Barrett said, an officer ordered the man to drop his gun and fired when he did not, striking the man in the chest and an arm. He said the gun held 23 rounds. The man, described by the police as a    Milwaukee man with a lengthy arrest record, died at the scene. The handgun had been taken in a burglary in March, the police said. The officer was not named, but officials said he was 24 and had been an officer for three years. He was placed on administrative duty. Mr. Barrett appealed to parents to keep their children off the streets in order to restore calm in the neighborhood. “Parents, get your kids home,” he said at the news conference. Mr. Barrett said that the officer was wearing a body camera that he understood to be operating and that the investigation into the shooting would be conducted by the Wisconsin Department of Justice because the case involved a Milwaukee police officer.