It has been three weeks since Democrats gathered for their convention, and Hillary Clinton still holds a large and consistent lead in national and battleground state polls. Her national lead over Donald J. Trump of seven to eight percentage points could slip a bit over the next few weeks. But it has been long enough that much of her expected convention “bounce” should have faded. It leaves Mr. Trump in an unenviable position: No modern candidate who has trailed by this much a few weeks after the conventions has gone on to win the presidency. On that basis, you can expect a wave of articles about how the presidential race is basically “over. ” That’s probably a bit too strong, at least from a historical point of view. The Upshot’s model gives Mrs. Clinton an 88 percent chance of winning. It’s about the same probability of hitting a field goal from the   line. That’s a pretty good way to think about it. If Mrs. Clinton ultimately wins, we will probably look back and say she had more or less already won it by this point. If she loses, these next two months will be talked about for decades. The     analogy has one big weakness: She may win this by a lot more than a field goal. The possibility of a landslide victory for Mrs. Clinton  —   one larger than any since 1984 in the national popular vote  —   is larger than the chance that Mr. Trump will pull it out. According to The Upshot model, Mrs. Clinton has a better shot at winning the red state of South Carolina than Mr. Trump has at winning the presidency. In that sense, perhaps Mrs. Clinton’s position is more like having a   lead at the beginning of the third quarter. At this point, it’s probably fair to say that Mrs. Clinton’s lead is real and durable. Gallup data indicates that the   bounce is largely over: Both Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton’s favorability ratings have returned to where they were before the conventions. Mrs. Clinton’s gains have proved relatively durable in part because they’ve come from   voters who seem unlikely to defect to Mr. Trump. Recent polls have shown her with the support of up to 90 percent of Bernie Sanders’s supporters, and more than 90 percent of Democrats. There is one key respect in which Mrs. Clinton’s big lead doesn’t look so durable, at least in historical terms: She holds only around 48 percent of the vote, and has a commanding lead only because Mr. Trump is stuck around 40 percent. In today’s polarized electorate, he can be polling so low only because he hasn’t unified voters who traditionally lean Republican in presidential elections. Astonishingly, several surveys have shown Mr. Trump with less than 70 percent of   Republican voters. This type of disunity is the basic story behind two of the biggest   comebacks in modern history, Hubert Humphrey’s late surge in 1968 and Gerald Ford’s in 1976. Both candidates had divisive conventions, and they left without fully unified parties. Both trailed by double digits in August and September polls, often with less than 35 percent of the vote. But in the end, the Republican faithful returned to Mr. Ford, and most Northern Democrats returned to Mr. Humphrey. Mr. Ford lost by just two percentage points, and Mr. Humphrey by less than one point. The elections ended up as two of the three closest presidential contests of the 20th century. If you’re a fan of Mr. Trump looking for hope and a relevant precedent for a comeback, this is my best comparison. No, Mr. Humphrey and Mr. Ford didn’t win. But clearly they could have. The problem, though, is that there are unusually good reasons to question whether Mr. Trump will ever reunify   voters. Many Republican voters have an unfavorable impression of him  —   worse still, many don’t even think he has the knowledge, temperament or qualifications to be president, according to polling. The most obvious sign that this year is different is the behavior of Republican politicians: Seven Senate Republicans have not yet endorsed Mr. Trump. This is highly unusual. It’s also a problem that could get worse. More Republicans could abandon him, especially if his big deficit in the polls holds, perhaps making it even more acceptable for Republican voters to follow suit. None of this information is incorporated into the statistical models used by The Upshot or other sites, like FiveThirtyEight. To extend the football analogy, the model has no idea whether the quarterback of the trailing team is Peyton Manning or Ryan Leaf. If Mr. Trump can’t reunify   voters, Mrs. Clinton really could win in a landslide. Perhaps many Republicans would skip the presidential race on the ballot, vote for a   candidate, or even stay home. A small but important number would vote for Mrs. Clinton. Maybe she could win by something like 54 to 42, and squeak out a win in South Carolina. But if Mr. Trump could make progress in reunifying Republicans, Mrs. Clinton would quickly find herself in a tighter race. She would still have the advantage  —   that 48 percent she currently holds in the polls doesn’t leave Mr. Trump very much room. To squeak out a win, Mr. Trump would need to win over enough white   voters, particularly white men without a degree, to compensate for his weakness among   voters and Hispanic   and especially   women. This is what the polls showed when Mr. Trump was in a close race or even ahead  —   as was the case in May or in    July. Historically, neither a Clinton landslide nor a close Trump win can be ruled out with   days to go. Then again, historically  —   based on   fundamentals like the “time for a change” theory of presidential elections  —   one would expect the Republicans to be   or even slight favorites to win this election. They are not favored anymore, in no small part because Mr. Trump has been performing a lot more like Mr. Leaf than Mr. Manning. If he keeps doing so over these final months, he could close off what few opportunities he might have left.