PHOENIX  —   The invitations to the border mayors’ meeting landed in inboxes in the United States and Mexico in English and in Spanish, standard for any type of official communication about binational events. One of the guests, Mayor Ken Taylor of Huachuca City, Ariz. was incensed. “I will NOT attend a function that is sent to me in ” Mr. Taylor replied in an email to the invitation sent by John F. Cook, his former counterpart in El Paso and the executive director of the U. S.  Border Mayors Association. “One nation means one language,” Mr. Taylor continued, “and I am insulted by the division caused by language. ” In an interview on Saturday, Mr. Cook said that he was flabbergasted by the reply, but that “I didn’t want to pick a fight. ” So, in a response to Mr. Taylor, he wrote, “The purpose of the Border Mayors Association is to speak with one voice in Washington, D. C. and Mexico City about issues that impact our communities, not to speak in one language. My humble apologies if I ruffled your feathers. ” The reactions on Twitter were less forgiving. The fuss, first reported by The El Paso Times, captures one side of a longstanding battle over the use of Spanish in the United States that has played out on many fronts, from the    reciting of the Pledge of Allegiance by   students in Wisconsin to conversations on school buses in Nevada and this year’s presidential campaign. During the Republican primary, Donald J. Trump said of one of his rivals, Jeb Bush, who is fluent in Spanish, “He should really set the example by speaking English while in the United States. ” In Arizona, the aversion to Spanish in some quarters also underscores the angst of a vanishing majority that is still dominant in political and business circles. A state law bans bilingual education, or the practice of teaching    children in their native language while they also learn English, in public schools. Demographers project that Latinos, who make up 31 percent of Arizona’s population, could become the state’s largest ethnic group by 2020. The bilingual invitations to the Aug. 24 meeting went out Wednesday to the mayors of every city and town along the Mexico border, including Huachuca City, whose population of 1, 900 is 15 percent Hispanic. Despite Mr. Cook’s apology, Mr. Taylor continued his offensive. “American is going ‘Down Hill’ fast because we spend more time catering to others that are concerned with their own self interests. It is far past time to remember that we should be ‘America First’   …     there is NOTHING wrong with that. ” Mr. Taylor invoked his military service  —   “I am a Veteran who served in other Countries FOR America,” he wrote. Mr. Cook said he, too, is a combat veteran, from Vietnam. “This has nothing to do with a lack of patriotism from my side,” he said. In an emailed statement on Saturday, Mr. Taylor said he was “horrified at how badly I have been misrepresented to the public” in what he called a private conversation. He said his objection was not to the invitation, but rather to the organization that “produced literature putting America subservient to Mexico. ” He added: “I respect Mexicans and would correspond to them in Spanish first. It seems reasonable that Americans should be honored accordingly by our own. ” The purpose of the border mayors association is to “address the opportunities and challenges facing the United States and Mexico in a global economy,” Mr. Cook said. Attendance of its meetings is not mandatory, but he nonetheless removed Mr. Taylor from the email list, as he had requested in one of his notes. “Giving away our sovereignty to benefit others is NOT a way to strengthen our Nation and OUR homes, it is an idea that is provably doomed to failure for the common man,” Mr. Taylor wrote. “If Mexico is NOT stopping drugs, crime, and terrorists from coming INTO our country from Mexico, then Mexico is not a friend and I don’t care to help. I have better things to do in fighting the problems they export to us. ”