A new type of mosquito trap running on solar electricity and using human odor as bait has cut mosquito populations by 70 percent in a test on a   island in Kenya, according to a new study. The study, published in The Lancet last week, also found 30 percent fewer malaria victims in houses that had traps than in those that did not. The total number of malaria cases was so small during the   testing period, however, that the researchers did not conclude that the traps were only 30 percent effective. Although the traps appeared quite effective at lowering mosquito populations, they had some significant drawbacks. Because they need power from rooftop solar panels, they are relatively expensive. Still, the panels appealed to residents who could also use them to power a light bulb or charge a cellphone. Also, the traps  —   which resemble lampshades and hang just outside the house  —   lured in Anopheles funestus mosquitoes, which are the most important malaria vector on Rusinga Island in Lake Victoria, where the test was conducted. But they did not attract Anopheles gambiae or Anopheles arabiensis, which are much more important malaria vectors in most of Africa, where more than 400, 000 children die of the disease each year. Also, the traps needed regular rebaiting with a blend of five chemical constituents of human odor along with a chemical that mimicked the carbon dioxide plume created by human breath. Mosquito traps releasing carbon dioxide are available in the United States, but they can cost hundreds of dollars can sometimes require propane tanks, electricity or dry ice and may not be effective. The test was led by scientists from Wageningen University in the Netherlands, along with Kenyan and Swiss scientists. An editorial accompanying the study praised the traps as a “groundbreaking lead technology,” that nonetheless has “obvious shortcomings. ” The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently tested simple bucket traps that caught   females by using only water and hay as bait and sticky paper to kill. The traps lowered mosquito populations by 80 percent in the four Puerto Rican towns where they were tested, and they appeared to cut chikungunya transmission by almost half. But the millions that would have been needed to fight the Zika epidemic there were not ready in time.