 (CNN) Over two years ago, on a snowy afternoon in Washington, city leaders from Cleveland made their pitch to the Republican National Committee that their town was the perfect choice to host the 2016 Republican National Convention. They were right. Cleveland is a beautiful city on the rise with a wealth of dynamic people and bountiful opportunities. It is a city with incredible hospitality and a commitment to excellence. From police officers and rescue workers to waiters and bartenders to Uber and taxi drivers, we’ve been welcomed with open arms everywhere we’ve been. All over town, enthusiasm is building for what will be one of the largest media events in the United States this year. Aside from showcasing a great American city, the main reason we are here is to show the country why the Republican Party is the only party ready to lead America in the 21st century. We are the party of new ideas in a world changing faster than ever. We are dedicated to creating opportunities for all Americans to thrive on their own terms. We want to get rid of   regulations and stimulate innovation that will grow the economy and help   families  thrive.   Democrats want the federal government to impose     policies. We believe an independent nation deserves individual solutions.  What further separates Republicans from Democrats is our belief in a better future. We won’t be content with a mediocre America. We want better schools. Better health care. A better, more responsive government. A better economy that rewards hard work no matter where you punch the clock.  And most of all, a better chance at the American dream for everyone.  We know all this is possible. And we won’t stop until it becomes a reality. Our presumptive nominee, Donald Trump, is giving a voice to millions of Americans who have had enough of unaccountable politicians, an economy that has left   families behind, and a Democratic nominee who thinks she can live above the law. He’s ready to revive our manufacturing industries, repeal and replace Obamacare and stop political correctness from dictating our fight against radical Islamic terrorism. In short, he’s ready to be the next president of the United States of America.  Meanwhile, our presumptive opponent, Hillary Clinton, wants to expand more of President Obama’s failed agenda.  Her tax plan would kill jobs and cripple Americans’ paychecks. Her central role as secretary of state in putting Iran on the path toward a nuclear bomb and turning Libya into a playground for radical Islamic terrorism shows her terrible judgment in matters of America’s national security. And over and over, she lied to the American people about her secret email server, which selfishly and recklessly jeopardized classified intelligence while also covering up massive conflicts of interest at her corrupt Clinton Foundation. It’s clear she doesn’t have what it takes to lead our country. Join us on Facebook. .  As we gather in Cleveland, now is the time for Americans to exercise our constitutional right to   and maintain our legacy of liberty. The Republican Party has our largest majority in the House of Representatives since 1928, and a majority in the Senate holding President Obama accountable. We need a Republican president to bring things full circle and finish the work of restoring American greatness. Cleveland is the perfect setting for us to show the American people we are the only party prepared to restore security, prosperity and liberty to our country. Our journey to make America great again goes through Cleveland on its way to our ultimate destination: the White House.