In his successful runs for state senator in Montana and then for Congress, Representative Ryan Zinke has promoted his   career in the Navy SEALs as one of his main credentials, going so far as to put the SEALs’ Trident symbol on his campaign bus. While he has portrayed his accomplishments in the Navy in glowing terms, Mr. Zinke, a Republican and   Donald J. Trump’s nominee for secretary of the interior, has acknowledged one “glitch”: that he improperly billed the government for travel to his home in Montana when he was a midlevel SEAL Team 6 officer in the late 1990s. He had to repay $211 for one of two trips, he has said, maintaining that the episode did not derail what he described as a “brilliant” career. But two retired admirals under whom Mr. Zinke served say his account understates the damage that it did. Mr. Zinke was in fact punished for abusing his travel expenses, they say, through an evaluation that prevented him from rising to senior levels in the Navy. His former commanding officer in SEAL Team 6, retired Vice Adm. Albert M. Calland III, who had never before discussed the matter publicly, said in an interview that it was “an easy decision” to hit Mr. Zinke hard over the travel claims, which came at a time when he was supposed to help prevent such abuses. “I gave him a fitness report that I thought would not allow him to get to captain, and that seemed, in that regard, to work O. K.,” Admiral Calland said. Even though Mr. Zinke served in a succession of No. 2 jobs in special operations after that, “he never got command,” the admiral said. Another retired vice admiral, Sean A. Pybus, who was Mr. Zinke’s boss after he left SEAL Team 6, said that Admiral Calland’s decision to cite Mr. Zinke for “lapses in judgment” in failing to set a proper example was a red flag for boards screening officers for coveted command jobs. Even if a fitness report  —   essentially a performance evaluation  —   gives top marks in other areas, as Mr. Zinke’s did, “language there like ‘hey, this officer has questionable judgment,’ that would keep him from being selected for a command position,” Admiral Pybus said. “And I think that’s exactly what happened. ” Mr. Zinke has said he took the trips to scout training locations in Montana and nearby parts of Washington and took leave while he was there to do construction work on a family home in Whitefish, Mont. But officials who were at the command said he had less reason to scout sites at the time because he was finishing a   tour as an assault team leader. They said one of the trips also seemed suspicious because he had sought reimbursement for excess airline baggage even though he was traveling alone. Admiral Calland recalled that there was “a lot of discussion” among senior officers about how to punish him. It also hurt Mr. Zinke, the officials said, that the trips came when SEAL Team 6  —   which, though now best known for killing Osama bin Laden, had initially been filled with   mavericks who flouted the rules  —   wanted to project a more professional image to compete with the Army’s Delta Force for top missions. A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump said that Mr. Zinke, 55, was preparing for a Senate confirmation hearing on Tuesday and that neither he nor the transition team would comment for this article. Mr. Zinke’s supporters say he has long since transcended the old problems through his political work and by becoming the first SEAL team member to be nominated for a cabinet position. Mr. Zinke, who was born and raised in Montana, was elected to the State Senate shortly after he retired from the Navy in 2008. He was elected to the House of Representatives in 2014 and won his second term in Congress in November with 57 percent of the vote. While the main focus of the hearing is likely to be his support for increasing energy drilling and mining on public lands, and his stated view that climate change is “not proven science,” senators could also question him about his Navy career. There is no doubt that Mr. Zinke was well liked and a rising star in the SEALs before the travel expenses episode. When he was a lieutenant commander in early 1998, his team snatched a Bosnian Serb war criminal, Goran Jelisic, on a city street and hustled him away in a van in a daring daytime operation. Even after Admiral Calland gave him declining performance marks in military bearing and leadership over the travel issues in   Mr. Zinke was promoted to the rank of commander, which is equivalent to lieutenant colonel in the Army, Air Force and Marines. But while he would have been eligible two or three times before he retired to be placed in charge of a unit as a commanding officer, he never was. And without serving as a commanding officer, he could not become a captain, which is equivalent to a colonel in the other services, and then an admiral, as some of his SEAL peers have. Kenneth Stethem, a retired SEAL chief petty officer who supports Mr. Zinke, said the travel issue seemed minor so many years later. “We have a saying in the teams: ‘You never shoot a   man with a   bullet,’ and that’s exactly what’s going on right here,” he said. But some former SEAL team members claim that Mr. Zinke has also exploited his past  —   he placed the SEALs’ insignia (with six stars, presumably for SEAL Team 6) on his campaign bus in violation of Defense Department guidelines against politicizing such symbols  —   and that he exaggerated what he did in his later military jobs to obscure that he never received commands of his own. He published an autobiography in November that was grandly titled “American Commander. ” And his biography on his congressional website says that he was “deputy and acting commander” of a task force “where he led a force of over 3, 500 Special Operations personnel in Iraq” in 2004. In an interview, Michael S. Repass, who retired from the Army as a major general and was Mr. Zinke’s boss in Iraq, chuckled and said, “That might be a stretch. ” General Repass said that while Mr. Zinke was his deputy commander for four months, he had named him acting commander for only about a week and a half, when the general traveled to the United States. General Repass said Mr. Zinke “did a good job” as his deputy and was “a competent guy,” and he had nominated Mr. Zinke for one of two Bronze Stars he received. Admiral Pybus said that Mr. Zinke was “embarrassed and humbled” when he left SEAL Team 6 and “did quite well” as his deputy at a command using   SEAL units in Europe. “I didn’t see any fallback on poor judgment or indiscretions,” Admiral Pybus said, adding that he had heard Mr. Zinke also did well in another Navy job, as the   officer (and briefly acting commander) of the main SEAL training center. Mr. Zinke attended the University of Oregon on a football scholarship and graduated in 1984 with a geology degree. He served first at a regular SEAL team and then trained other SEAL team members. Records show that two of his early bosses believed that he had the potential to become an admiral. He joined SEAL Team 6 for a stint in 1991. After working on a staff in London, Mr. Zinke returned to SEAL Team 6 in 1996 as the leader of Gold Team, one of three assault teams. Mark Cochiolo, one of the enlisted team members, said Mr. Zinke fixed “some disciplinary issues” and “got us refocused on what we were there for. ” The high mark came on Jan. 22, 1998, when members of Mr. Zinke’s team jumped from unmarked vans and seized Mr. Jelisic, who had called himself the “Serb Adolf,” after Hitler, as he killed detainees during the Bosnian war. The operation took only a minute, former team members say, and Mr. Jelisic ended up with a   prison sentence. Admiral Calland called Mr. Zinke a “superstar” in his fitness report for that year and predicted that he would “lead and command with distinction. ” But in referring to the travel problems that hurt his next evaluation, Mr. Zinke surprised some of his former teammates by suggesting in his book that he was not aware that standards had tightened. He recalled how Team 6 members had earlier “traveled and trained where they liked and Navy oversight was little or none. ” When he became the Gold Team leader, he maintained, “the command had changed, but I had not,” attributing his travel violations to either “bad judgment or a bad habit. ” He also minimized the effect the issue had on his career. While he wrote that it was “a hard lesson to learn and likely put a cloud over me making flag officer,” or admiral, he referred to the episode as just a “shot across the bow. ” He also wrote that “the biggest penalty was being embarrassed for wrongdoing. ”