WASHINGTON  —   Senate Republicans breathed a sigh of relief in late June. Senator Mitch McConnell’s campaign to lure Senator Marco Rubio into running for   in Florida had paid off and Republican control of Congress felt a little more secure. It has been all downhill since. Donald J. Trump’s   plummet in the polls has taken vulnerable Republican Senate candidates along for the ride, throwing the door open to the prospect of a Democratic majority under the leadership of Senator Chuck Schumer of New York. On top of that, the Trump campaign brought on Stephen Bannon, the head of the conservative media outlet Breitbart News, which has savaged Republican congressional leaders like Mr. McConnell and Speaker Paul D. Ryan as hypocritical quislings. The new campaign team is also promising to let Mr. Trump be Mr. Trump, a prospect that no doubt terrifies many Republican candidates who would prefer not to comment on more incendiary statements from the Republican nominee. His blanket expression of regret Thursday night for earlier comments cheered some in his party, but that moment was quickly overtaken by news of the resignation of Paul Manafort, the embattled Trump campaign chairman. It has all left Republicans tied to the party establishment that Mr. Trump so frequently disparages increasingly glum. “Trump is proving to be an albatross around all of our necks, and it is creating a very challenging environment,” said Rob Jesmer, a Republican strategist and a former executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. It is a realization of the fear that Republicans have harbored for months  —   that a significant swing in political momentum against Mr. Trump would engulf Senate and House candidates in more competitive states and districts even if they were running solid campaigns. Senate Republicans are currently struggling in at least six states where they are defending seats  —   Illinois, Indiana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. That is two more than Democrats would need to set the Senate agenda if Hillary Clinton were elected president. “I can say without any hesitation that the Democrats will retake the Senate,” said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the departing Senate minority leader who is not impressed by efforts to retool the Trump campaign. “They’ve been trying to get him to run a real campaign but that’s not who he is. ” Top Republicans admit they face a real challenge. “We are very much on defense this cycle,” Mr. McConnell told me during the Republican National Convention last month. “These are really, really tough competitive races. ” It could get worse. If the Trump campaign continues to falter, the damage could extend to candidates who look like survivors at the moment  —   think Senators Rob Portman in Ohio, Charles E. Grassley in Iowa, John McCain in Arizona and Roy Blunt in Missouri. Even Mr. Rubio, who just a few weeks ago was considered the missing ingredient to holding the Senate majority, is far from safe. And with Mrs. Clinton seemingly competitive in Georgia at the presidential level, Democrats are even eyeing the seat of the Republican senator Johnny Isakson, a race that was on no one’s radar a few months ago. The scope of any Democratic victory is crucial. It is one thing if Democrats are able to muster a    majority or even a    Senate with a Vice President Tim Kaine constantly on hand to break ties after relinquishing his own Senate seat. Every additional Democrat would make it that much easier to move forward with a Clinton administration legislative agenda and make it that much harder for Republicans to reclaim the majority in 2018, when the numbers would be more in their favor. Still, not even the most optimistic Democrats believe they have a chance of reaching 60, the number needed to overcome a filibuster. A similar dynamic is at work in the House. At the moment, chances for Democrats’ winning the 30 seats they would need to take back power are considered slim in the absence of a complete Trump swoon. But both sides expect Democratic gains, and the loss of even half that number of Republicans would greatly complicate the life of Mr. Ryan  —   provided he would even want to remain speaker at that point or that a majority of remaining House Republicans would want him. Mr. Ryan has not directly addressed the addition to the leadership of the Trump campaign of Mr. Bannon, whose website has skewered the speaker. Republicans are hardly surrendering. Many still believe they can hold the Senate and certainly the House. Candidates are frantically raising money, and party strategists are in a rolling series of meetings figuring how best to contend with the intensifying Trump effect. One senator who did not want to be identified conceding any party losses put the   scenario for Republicans at holding on to a    Senate. But even that outcome contemplates Republicans’ winning Mr. Reid’s seat in Nevada, where there is a very close race between a Republican representative, Joe Heck, and former Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto, a Democrat. Democrats have their own concerns. They fear that a decision by the Republican National Committee to abandon Mr. Trump to preserve Republican congressional majorities could rescue some candidates now in danger. They also worry that   conservative groups such as the Koch network could pour in money to keep Republicans in power as a check against a Clinton administration. Plus, Democrats face their own questions about resources. An expanding electoral map presents additional, but less promising, opportunities and Democrats will have to keep spending on their top targets in states such as New Hampshire and Pennsylvania throughout the campaign to keep the heat on the Republican incumbents. Still, as the handicapper Nathan Gonzales of the Rothenberg  Gonzales Political Report noted, “The upside is certainly on the Democratic side. ” The question at the moment seems to be just how high that upside goes.