RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Ryan Lochte, the   Olympic medal winner who claimed to have been robbed here last weekend by men identifying themselves as police officers, issued an apology on Friday “for my behavior” in an episode that has cast a pall over the Games. The apology came as testimony emerged from other American swimmers challenging Mr. Lochte’s initial version of events. In sworn statements to investigators, the other swimmers described Mr. Lochte, 32, as drunk and unruly, saying he had damaged property at a gas station and later misrepresented what happened. The case has ignited a debate that goes well beyond sports, eliciting an apology from American Olympic officials and outrage from Brazilians who accuse Mr. Lochte of smearing Rio’s reputation as it held one of the most important international events in Brazil’s history. In his original account, Mr. Lochte said he and three other American swimmers had been pulled over by armed men calling themselves police officers, one of whom put a gun against his head before taking the cash from his wallet. But police investigators said Thursday that Mr. Lochte had fabricated central elements of the encounter. The investigators said the swimmers had vandalized a gas station bathroom after leaving a lavish party and were confronted over the damages by security guards. At least one of the guards brandished his gun in their direction, the police said. “I want to apologize for my behavior last weekend  —   for not being more careful and candid in how I described the events of that early morning,” Mr. Lochte said in a statement on Instagram. Mr. Lochte did not give a full account of what happened during the episode, or explain the ways in which his earlier depictions of events were inaccurate. But he insisted that a gun was pointed at him and that he was forced to hand over money. “It’s traumatic to be out late with your friends in a foreign country  —   with a language barrier  —   and have a stranger point a gun at you and demand money to let you leave,” he said in the statement. In sworn statements to Brazilian investigators, Mr. Lochte’s teammates said that he was drunk and disorderly, had damaged property and was in need of calming down as they discussed the situation with an armed security guard. Two of the swimmers  —   Gunnar Bentz, 20, and Jack Conger, 21  —   described public urination, vandalism and other drunken antics by the swimmers, the police said. In his testimony, Mr. Bentz said that the situation spiraled out of control shortly after the swimmers left a party in a taxi early Sunday and stopped at a gas station to use the bathroom. Once there, the men urinated around the bushes, and Mr. Lochte damaged a sign, according to a police description of Mr. Bentz’s account. The police said a bathroom door and a soap dispenser had also been damaged. Fernando Deluz, a D. J. who was passing by the gas station, said he interpreted for the swimmers, none of whom speak Portuguese, in an effort to prevent the situation from escalating. “There was a moment when they tried to escape, and that’s when the security guards stopped them,” Mr. Deluz said in nationally televised comments. “At no moment did anyone brush up against them,” he added. And when employees of the gas station discussed calling the police, the swimmers pleaded with them not do so, Mr. Deluz added. “They were saying, ‘Please, please, no please,’” Mr. Deluz said, explaining that the swimmers began asking in English how much they needed to pay for the damages done to the gas station. The swimmers then handed over Brazilian and American currency totaling about $50 to Mr. Deluz, who said he gave the money to a security guard, who then passed it to a gas station employee. “Then I talked to them and said, ‘That’s O. K. ’” Mr. Deluz said. The swimmers then went on their way to the athletes’ village, where they were captured on camera joking with one another and in possession of their phones and watches, items that are often taken from victims of armed assaults in Rio. Mr. Bentz said the swimmers tried to leave the station, having sensed that they could get into trouble after employees witnessed their behavior, the police said. But two men with guns  —   security guards at the gas station  —   approached the car, brandished their weapons and prevented them from leaving, Mr. Bentz said. The group of swimmers, which also included Jimmy Feigen, 26, then got out of the car. After being told by the   guards to sit down, “Ryan got up and began talking to the men,” Mr. Bentz told investigators. At that point, Mr. Bentz said, he “asked Ryan to calm down and sit down again. ” In his testimony, Mr. Conger told investigators that he described the episode to his mother after arriving back at the athletes’ village and having breakfast with Mr. Feigen. He then saw Mr. Lochte’s accounts in the news media, telling investigators that he “perceived that Ryan was lying about what had happened. ” As the scandal over the swimmers grew this week, judges in Brazil sought to prevent the men from leaving the country. But Mr. Lochte had already flown to the United States before the police moved to seize his passport. The police removed Mr. Bentz and Mr. Conger from their plane as it prepared to leave Rio, but after providing their testimony, the two men flew to the United States. The police said they were planning to charge Mr. Lochte and Mr. Feigen with providing false testimony about a crime. But Mr. Feigen’s lawyer said that his client had agreed to pay about $10, 800 to a Brazilian charity as part of a deal to avoid prosecution, allowing him to leave the country. The International Olympic Committee also said Friday that it would start a disciplinary inquiry into the episode involving the four swimmers. In his apology, Mr. Lochte said that he was grateful to “the people of Brazil who welcomed us to Rio and worked so hard to make sure that these Olympic Games provided a lifetime of great new memories. ” But many Brazilians felt that the statement fell short. “Lochte apologizes but doesn’t admit lying,” said Rodrigo Mattos, a sports commentator for UOL, one of Brazil’s largest news websites. “He’s still portraying himself as a victim. So much arrogance. ”