RIO DE JANEIRO  —   The American swimmers Ryan Lochte, Jimmy Feigen, Jack Conger and Gunnar Bentz left a lavish Olympics party hosted by the French authorities early Sunday morning. They got into a taxi for the ride across Rio de Janeiro to their lodgings in the athletes’ village. What happened next has been the subject of intense police scrutiny, diplomatic debate and widespread criticism  —   first for Rio’s crime problems, and then for the behavior of the four American athletes. What’s the latest? Mr. Conger and Mr. Bentz were allowed to fly back to the United States on Thursday night. (The night before, they were pulled off their flight and detained for questioning.) Mr. Feigen agreed to donate $11, 000 to a Brazilian charity in an effort to receive permission to leave the country, according to news reports Friday morning. Mr. Lochte returned to the United States earlier in the week and apologized Friday for his role in the episode (see below). What happened? The taxi stopped at a gas station and the swimmers got out to use the restroom. The police say that after one or more of them vandalized the restroom, a security guard brandished a gun to keep them under control until the police arrived. The chief of police said Thursday that the swimmers paid for the damages  —   about $50  —   and left before the police arrived. In his original account, Mr. Lochte said the car had been pulled over by armed men, one of whom put a gun against his head before taking the cash from his wallet. He subsequently altered his version of events. What aspects of the incident remain unclear? Many. There is little doubt that one or more of the American athletes damaged the gas station restroom. What happened after that is less clear: Who brandished a gun? Did any of the athletes grow combative? Did the athletes understand that they were being asked to pay for the restroom damages, or did they believe they were being extorted? How did United States officials respond when the reports first emerged? What are the possible legal consequences for the athletes? The judge who oversees the special court handling the case said the crime the athletes have been accused of  —   making false statements about a crime  —   “is not that serious. ” He said it would not result in any time in prison if they were found guilty. Why did the swimmers describe the incident inaccurately? We don’t know yet. The police chief speculated that the accounts were fabricated to disguise that the swimmers had remained at the party until almost sunrise. He said one of the first leads in the investigation had come from a taxi driver who gave a ride to two Brazilian women who had left the same party and discussed having romantic encounters with the swimmers. “At least one of the athletes may have had a motive for telling a story that wasn’t true,” he said. Have the swimmers apologized? On Friday, Mr. Lochte apologized, in a statement on Twitter, “for not being more careful and candid in how I described the events of that early morning and for my role in taking the focus away from the many athletes fulfilling their dreams of participating in the Olympics. ” Many Brazilians have said they wanted to see contrition from the swimmers because, they say, the false claims portrayed Rio grossly on an international stage. Mario Andrada, a spokesman for the Rio Olympics, had said an apology was not necessary. Nevertheless, on Friday, he said, “We accept and appreciate his apology,” according to The Associated Press. Scott Blackmun, the chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee, issued an apology in a statement Thursday night. “The behavior of these athletes is not acceptable, nor does it represent the values of Team USA or the conduct of the vast majority of its members,” the statement said. “On behalf of the United States Olympic Committee, we apologize to our hosts in Rio and the people of Brazil for this distracting ordeal in the midst of what should rightly be a celebration of excellence. ”