 (CNN) Play was abandoned on day three of the PGA Championship at Baltusrol Golf Club, New Jersey, after persistent rain and the continuing threat of lightning storms Saturday. The vast majority of the field was at least able to   before the weather turned but the top 10 players after Thursday and Friday’s opening rounds were unable to begin. ”Play for the day has been canceled. The third round of the 98th PGA Championship will resume at (7am) on Sunday,” read a tweet from the PGA Championship event. Meanwhile, a note to competitors shared on the official PGA website shortly after stated that the final round will begin at 8. 40am Sunday in the same pairings as round three. That would appear to leave open the possibility of the leading players completing two rounds Sunday should there be no further weather delays. Otherwise, play will likely be extended through to Monday. The last time the PGA Championship was held at Baltusrol was in 2005 when adverse weather also meant a Monday finish was required. Robert Streb and Jimmy Walker remain joint leaders at    despite not striking a ball Saturday. Jason Day and Emiliano Grillo are tied for third two shots back on    with recent British Open champion, Henrik Stenson, on   . Read: McIlroy laments pathetic putting, Kevin Kisner made the most of an early start Saturday to record an impressive 65 to move into a tie for sixth position at    alongside Martin Kaymer, Patrick Reed and Brooks Kopka.    Ireland’s Padraig Harrington also shot up the leaderboard with a 65 of his own to be tie for tenth at   . Phil Mickelson could only make a    68 to move up to joint 48th position Saturday.  But the 2005 PGA Championship winner told reporters that a record major score could be achieved over the coming days. Streb notched up a record equaling 63 Friday and Mickelson believes that could be bettered thanks to the generous way the course is playing.  No player has ever shot lower than a 63 in a major tournament. Read: Everything you need to know about Baltusrol, ”The golf course is susceptible to very low scoring,” Mickelson told reporters. ”There is a low 60s round. I think somebody is going to break that 63 record in these next two days.”  ”The greens are pristine. You can make a lot of putts. They are soft, so you can get the ball very close. I think that there’s that 61 or 62.”