 (CNN) Here’s a look at the life of Grand Ayatollah Ali   Iraq’s most influential Shiite cleric.  Personal:Birth date: August 4, 1930  Birth place: Mashhad, Iran, Birth name: Sayyid Ali Husaini Sistani, Father: Sayyid Mohammad Baqir, a religious scholar, Mother: Name unavailable publicly, Marriage: Information unavailable publicly, Children: Muhammad Rida     eldest son. Total number of children unavailable publicly. Religion: Shiite Muslim, Other Facts:He is a member of a   family of religious scholars and began studying at the age of five.   has written many books and treatises on Islamic law and life. Under Saddam Hussein’s regime,   was under house arrest for many years. Rarely does interviews and is rarely seen in public.  Timeline:1952     moves to the holy city of Najaf, Iraq, to study with Shiite clerics there. 1990   He is chosen by other religious figures to lead an important network of schools in Najaf. September 2002   He issues his first political fatwa, urging Muslims to unite and defend Iraq against outside aggressors.  April 2003    ’s house arrest is lifted after the U. S.  invasion of Iraq.   issues his second political fatwa, urging the Iraqi people to remain neutral and not to interfere with the U. S. forces. June 3, 2004     endorses the new Iraqi government. Says the new government lacks ”legitimacy of elections” and does not represent ”in an acceptable manner all segments of Iraqi society and political forces. . .. Nevertheless, it is hoped that this government will prove its efficiency and integrity and show resolve to carry out the enormous tasks that rest on its shoulders.” August   2004   Fighting engulfs the city of Najaf. Militiamen loyal to Iraqi cleric Muqtada   battle U. S. forces for control of the area. August 6, 2004     who seldom leaves his home in Najaf, travels to London for treatment for heart problems.  August 25, 2004     returns to Iraq and begins negotiating a ceasefire in Najaf. Before his return he asks all Iraqis to ”march to Najaf in order to rescue the city.” August 26, 2004   Arrives at his home in Najaf, where he and Shiite cleric Muqtada   reach an agreement to put an end to the violence in the region. February 13, 2005   The results of Iraq’s January 30, 2005, election are released.  ’s United Iraqi Alliance comes in first, with over four million votes. December 2008     endorses the Iraqi government and U. S. military troop withdrawal proposal. January 2009   Releases a statement urging Iraqis to vote in the upcoming provincial elections but states that he is not endorsing any candidates.  March 2011   To express his dissatisfaction with Iraqi political leaders,   refuses to meet with them. March 2013     issues a fatwa prohibiting shedding Iraqi blood, particularly Sunni blood. June 13, 2014   Through his representative,   appeals to his followers to join the security forces in fighting ISIS militants. ”Citizens who are able to bear arms and fight terrorists . .. should volunteer and join the security forces to achieve this holy purpose.”