 (CNN) It was an afternoon for public displays of affection in Canada as Novak Djokovic beat Kei Nishikori in the Rogers Cup final    then proceeded to orchestrate a several   group hug in the stands. After battling to a   victory, beating his Japanese opponent     to secure his fourth title in Toronto, Djokovic hugged every member of the sizable entourage in his box. ”Speaking of hugs,” the world No. 1 said when back on the podium for the trophy presentation. ”I’m going to do something I’ve never done before.  ”I promised a friend if I won    if I was in this position    I would do this. If everyone in the stands would hug the person next to them    and I promise I will participate too.” True to his word, Djokovic hugged the man next to him as fans embraced each other in the stands. Playing in his first tournament since a shock defeat to Sam Querrey in the Wimbledon third round, Djokovic put his disappointment behind him and lifted the trophy without dropping a set throughout the competition. And if Djokovic had plenty of love for the fans in the stands, he certainly showed none to his opponent on the other side of the net. In his usual imperious form, Djokovic broke Nishikori for the first time midway through the opening set to go   up. It was a lead the Serb never looked like relinquishing and he sealed the set with a remarkable point of textbook defensive tennis. The world No. 1 then looked set to make light work of his opponent, breaking Nishikori early in the second set before the Nishikori fightback began. Despite the Japanese star claiming three consecutive games in the second set to lead   Djokovic steadied the ship and the pair battled it out to  . Just when it looked as though Nishikori might level the match at   all, Djokovic stepped up a gear to break the world No. 6 and hold serve to seal the second set  . Victory also marked his 30th ATP Masters 1000 title, an   record. Djokovic will now look to claiming an Olympic gold medal in Rio, something that has eluded him throughout an illustrious career    although he won Olympic bronze in Beijing 2008. In the earlier women’s final, world No. 5 Simona Halep defeated Madison Keys to secure her third WTA title of the year. After a tight first set in which the pair exchanged eight breaks of serve, Halep    who also defeated Keys in the Wimbledon fifth round    waltzed through the tie break, winning   before claiming the second set  .