 (CNN) Hillary Clinton has widened her lead over Donald Trump in a pair of new national polls published on Thursday, as the Republican nominee ends one of the worst weeks of his campaign. Clinton opened up a   margin in the   survey, 48% to 33% which was conducted as Trump feuded publicly first with the Muslim parents of a slain American war hero and then House Speaker Paul Ryan, one of the GOP’s most popular and powerful figures. Last month, Clinton held a narrow   advantage, 42% % in a   poll.  In an NBC   Street Journal poll, Clinton’s edge is 9 points (47% to 38%) cushioning what was a   advantage in early July. A   poll this week showed Clinton with a similar   edge over Trump nationally. RELATED: Clinton ahead in key battleground states  The added option of   candidates Jill Stein and Gary Johnson had little effect on the    spreads. In the   poll, Clinton’s lead shrunk by only 1 point, while she retained an identical   lead in the   survey. The results mark the latest in a string of national and battleground state polls showing Clinton with a growing base of support and, on Thursday, hints that she could be making inroads with male voters.  Clinton nearly tied Trump among men in the   poll and enjoys a   swing    she now leads by 8 points    in the   survey. With women, she continues to enjoy an overwhelming advantage    50% to 30% according to   and 51% to 35% in the   results.  Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, a longtime Trump ally, told CNN Thursday night he didn’t believe the flagging numbers were permanent, attributing them to a   National Convention bounce and ”some events” that have occurred in the past week. Trump has recently feuded with the Muslim family of a slain US soldier and infuriated the Republican establishment by not endorsing House Speaker Paul Ryan. ”Donald Trump is a campaigner and a warrior,” Sessions told CNN’s Erin Burnett on ”OutFront.” ”The numbers had him up not long ago. He’s down some now and I think you’ll see a rebound, no doubt about it, heading into November.” The   poll of 800 registered voters had a margin of error of 3. 5%. It was conducted from July 31 to August 3. The   survey reached 983 registered voters between August   and was statistically significant within 3. 1%. Correction: An earlier version of this story misidentified Alabama Sen. Jeff Session’s state. 