RIO DE JANEIRO  —   The favorite Eliud Kipchoge of Kenya won the Olympic marathon on Sunday, drawing away over the final four miles to win in 2 hours 8 minutes 44 seconds. Feyisa Lilesa of Ethiopia took second in 2:09:54, while Galen Rupp of the United States won the bronze medal in 2:10:05, his personal best. Kenyans won both marathons at the Rio Games. Jemima Sumgong won the women’s marathon, becoming the first Kenyan woman to win a gold medal in the 26.  event. “It is amazing for us,” Kipchoge, 31, said. “Kenyans will be very happy. This is history, the first time the women and the men win” in the same Olympics “and it is the best moment of my life. ” At 35 kilometers, or 21. 7 miles, of the men’s race, Kipchoge held a lead of only one second over Lilesa and Rupp. Rupp seemed in a position to become perhaps the first American man to win the Olympic marathon since Frank Shorter won in 1972. But this was only the second marathon run by Rupp, who ran his first at the Olympic trials in February. He had finished fifth in the 10, 000 meters in Rio after winning a silver medal in the event at the 2012 London Olympics. On Sunday, he began to fall back. At one point, Kipchoge motioned to Lilesa, 26, to help him share the lead. Lilesa would not or could not. And so Kipchoge drew away, winning by more than a minute, becoming what many consider the greatest marathon runner ever. He has won seven of the eight marathons he has entered. “It was a championship, and it was a bit slow, so I decided to take over,” Kipchoge said. “Maybe it was the rain, maybe not. Everyone wants a medal. I was coming here for gold. ” In April, he had come within eight seconds of the world record at the London Marathon, running his personal best of 2:03:05 on a cool, blustery day. Last fall, while winning the Berlin Marathon, Kipchoge might have set the world record, but the insoles came out of his Nike shoes. There was no chance of a world record at this Olympic marathon, which lacked pacesetters and had some sharp turns, and where an early morning rain had left the air muggy with a temperature in the 70s. At the halfway point, a group of about two dozen runners had a shot at the lead, running a 1:05:55. But the lead pack was down to nine runners at 30 kilometers (18. 6 miles). By 20. 5 miles, it was left to Kipchoge, Lilesa and Rupp to decide the race’s between them. “I was emotionally drained after the 10K, but I got it out of the system and decided to have an attacking race,” Rupp, 30 said. “Maybe this is my best event. ” The other American finishers were Jared Ward, sixth in 2:11:30, and Meb Keflezighi, 33rd in 2:16. 46.