 (CNN) The elastic zip might be gone, but the stance remains unmistakably Ichiro. Taut, alert, right arm extended and bat held ramrod straight up as he lightly tugs his shirt sleeve. And then, the hit. On Sunday, the Miami Marlins’ Ichiro Suzuki scored his 3, 000th career hit, a triple off Chris Rusin of the Rockies, catapulting him into an exclusive group of players: the 3, 000 club.  It’s the culmination of a glittering career that has taken him from the western Japanese city of Kobe and the   BlueWave to Seattle, where he held court for a glittering 11½ seasons before a short spell with the Yankees and, when free agency came around, the Miami Marlins.  After bagging hit 2, 998 at home in Miami, the    endured a frustrating series against the Cubs, starting on the bench for each of the three games. But the inevitable could only be delayed, and he duly hit number 2, 999 Saturday night and then, finally, 3, 000 at Coors Field in Denver.  Ichirio is the first Japanese player to achieve the feat in Major League Baseball and the 30th  to achieve the feat of the 18, 506 players who have suited up in the Majors since 1876,  according to Baseball Reference. Alex Rodriguez, one of baseball’s biggest stars, is the only other active player on the 3, 000 hit list. Rodriguez announced he will retire on Friday.   41, debuted in the Majors at age 18. Ichiro, 42, made his debut as a    after playing nine seasons in Japan. Three decades of baseball, Ichiro had 1, 278 hits for the Orix BlueWave in Japan’s Nippon Pro Baseball, where he began his career before moving to Seattle.  If you count his hits in Japan, Ichiro is the   hits leader in professional baseball    though some, including current MLB hits leader Pete Rose, say only hits in the Majors should count. ”His career will be counted as one of the best of this or any other generation,”   teammate Derek Jeter wrote in a tribute to the Japanese  . When he moved to Seattle in 2001    his best season   bar one season    he was lauded as one of the first, and certainly the most anticipated, position players from Japan. With 242 hits and 127 runs that season, he opened his MLB account    at age 27    and set about building a legacy in a hugely successful career in the Majors.  He’s still loved in Seattle, but the Ichiro   doesn’t end at the Pacific Coast. He’s seen as somewhat of an ambassador of Japanese baseball in his home country, where he helped his Nippon Pro Baseball team to its only Japan Series pennant in 1996. 