 (CNN) The Olympics have reached a transitional point, midway through the program, where one marquee event    swimming    ends and another    athletics    begins. Where the world goes from the excitement of watching Michael Phelps wreck medal records to the fervent anticipation of watching Usain Bolt beginning his campaign to write his own history. Phelps closed out his Olympics career Friday with an impressive leg in the US’s win in the   medley relay.  His incredible legacy culminating with a 28th medal, 23 of which are gold    more than all but 39 countries.  ”It’s been an honor to be on two Olympic teams with him. Last time was his last, this team is his last, so I get to say I was on Michael Phelps last Olympics two times which is cool, maybe there’ll be a third time,” US phenom Katie Ledecky said. Phelps, who has swum in five Olympics, said no. His swimming career is over. ”It’s not the end of a career, it’s the beginning of a new journey,” he told NBC. Michael Phelps: How swimming legend regained his ’immortality’ For clarity’s sake, there is one more set of swimming events, but the marathon (10 kilometers) events are set in the water off Copacabana Beach.  For Bolt, the day was the start of his attempt to become the first man to win the three track and field sprint events    the 100 meters, the 200 meters and the 4x100 meters relay    in three Olympics. The    came into the Olympics having missed the Jamaican national championships with a bad hamstring. All seemed well Saturday. Despite a rough start, he still ran 10. 07 to win his qualifying heat in the 100.  Here are other memorable moments from Saturday’s action: Elaine Thompson: Jamaican wins women’s 100m gold at Rio 2016 Olympics, Another historic moment for a US woman, These Games have been full of milestones for women representing the United States and Ibtihaj Muhammad is the latest to achieve a notable first. The    from Maplewood, New Jersey, became the first US athlete to wear a hijab and win an Olympics medal. Muhammad and her three teammates won bronze in the women’s team saber event, downing Italy by a comfortable 15 points. Muhammad drew her first match   and won her second  .  Teammate Mariel Zagunis became the first US fencer to medal at three Olympics.  Puerto Rico’s golden moment, Add US territory Puerto Rico to the list of   gold medal winners, thanks to tennis star  Monica Puig.  ”It’s just amazing. I know my country really appreciates this and I really wanted to give this victory to them,” Puig said. ”And the way I did this victory tonight, I wouldn’t want it any other way.” She later tweeted: ”We did it Puerto Rico! !!!! !!!!” Puig  defeated world No. 2 Angelique Kerber of Germany in singles, two sets to one. Puerto Rico had won just eight Olympic medals    six bronze and two silver    prior to Puig’s success. Six of those were won in boxing. Puerto Rico joins Fiji, Kosovo and Singapore as national Olympic committees that have won   gold medals in Rio.  And then there were none, Russia’s athletics team won 18 medals four years ago, eight of them gold. But things will be vastly different in Rio due to a doping scandal. The traditional powerhouse had most of its Rio squad banned as a penalty for doping but it did manage to get one   competitor into the 2016 Games. But now she’s barred too. Long jumper Darya Klishina says people with a political agenda are behind her suspension by the International Association of Athletics Federations. She swears that she is clean. She’s appealing her suspension and hopes to compete in the first rounds of the event Tuesday. ”I will take every possible effort to protect my clean image as an athlete,” she said in a statement on Facebook. ”At this moment I cannot help but feel betrayed by a system that is not focused on keeping the sport clean and supporting    athletes, but rather seeking victories outside sport arenas.”   Olympic golf: Henrik Stenson contends for gold after reptile encounter, One green pool drained, The Rio 2016 local organizing committee has decided to drain the green water in the competition pool at the Maria Lenk Aquatics center.  Organizers blamed the addition of 80 liters (21 gallons) of hydrogen peroxide.   Rio 2016 director of venue management Gustavo Nascimento said the work should be done by Sunday morning, just a few hours before the start of synchronized swimming.  ”We have been trying to clean the pool for four days and obviously it’s not going as fast as we want it to,” Nascimento said. The adjacent diving well will not be drained, because there haven’t been many complaints from the athletes. A filter adjustment should help change the color of the water from green to light blue. Workers will drain the pool, which also has been the site of water polo, and fill it with water from a warmup pool.  Nascimento said the hydrogen peroxide was not a danger to the athletes but blunted the chlorine’s ability to ”kill organics.” Gold medal roundup, Winners of the other medal finals Saturday: Athletics, Men’s 10, 000 meters    Mo Farah, Great Britain, Athletics, Men’s Discus    Christoph Harting, Germany, Athletics, Men’s Long Jump    Jeff Henderson, United States, Athletics, Women’s 100 meters    Elaine Thompson, Jamaica, Athletics, Women’s Heptathlon    Nafissatou Thiam, Belgium, Fencing, Women’s Team Saber    Russia, Rowing, Men’s Eight    Great Britain, Rowing, Men’s Single Sculls    Mahe Drysdale, Australia, Rowing, Women’s Eight     United States, Rowing Women’s Single Sculls    Kimberly Brennan, Australia, Shooting, Men’s Rapid Fire Pistol    Christian Reitz, Germany, Shooting, Men’s Skeet    Gabriele Rossetti, Italy, Tennis, Women’s Singles    Monica Puig, Puerto Rico, Trampoline Gymnastics, Men    Uladzislau Hancharou, Belarus, Track Cycling, Women’s Keirin    Elis Ligtee, the Netherlands, Weightlifting, Men’s 94 kilograms    Sohrab Moradi, Iran,  