 (CNN) Sunday was a golden day for some of the biggest names in Olympic sports, with runners and gymnasts harvesting those precious medals at the Rio 2016 Games. And in the event of the evening, the fastest man in history, Usain Bolt, stayed right there in front, taking the gold medal in the men’s 100 meters in 9. 81 seconds.  It was also the chance for the world’s best gymnasts    both men and women    to show their incredible specialist skills on the apparatus. Having waved farewell to the Olympic swimming events until Tokyo in four years’ time, Sunday also was the last day of events in shooting    and the tennis finals. There was plenty of action across 12 sports with 22 gold medals awarded Sunday. Here’s a few highlights: Athletics, When Usain Bolt hit the   finish line Sunday night    ahead of American Justin Gatlin who was . 08 of a second back for silver and Canadian Andre De Grasse in third    Bolt took another first beyond the single event as the first athlete to win gold in the 100 at three Olympics. For 70 meters or so, it looked like Gatlin had a winning chance, but then the    Bolt hit full stride and zipped by his rival. Once Bolt saw his lead was untouchable, he eased over the finish, somewhat like he did in Beijing eight years ago, and pounded his chest twice before raising a finger to show who was No. 1. Note to Bolt: we already knew that. Follow all the action in Rio, It was Bolt’s first victory in his   attempt, with the   and the 4x100 meter relay still ahead. Bolt’s run upstaged the greatest   run of   as Wayde van Niekerk clocked an incredible 43. 03, a world record despite running in the farthest outside lane. The South African smashed the world record held by track and field legend Michael Johnson for nearly 17 years to take the gold ahead of defending champion Kirani James. And Johnson was quick to congratulate Van Niekerk, tweeting: ”Congratulations @WaydeDreamer to you and your coach! Well done and deserved. Olympic Gold and World record. I know the feeling!” The   ’s dominant run was all the more impressive considering he ran in lane eight, with James and American LaShawn Merritt, who took the bronze medal, out of his line of sight for the entire race. Great Britain’s great day, The only time the team from Great Britain has won more medals on one day other than Sunday was when it was the host for the Olympics. ”God Save the Queen” was played five times    twice at gymnastics, once each at tennis, track cycling and golf. The gymnastics golds were especially special with Max Whitlock winning where Japanese legend Koehi Uchimura was expected to be the star. ”This has outdone all of my expectations and I am proud to say I have made history,” he said. Whitlock won the floor and pommel horse events, while teammate Louis Smith took silver in the second event.  The nation also celebrated wins from tennis superstar Andy Murray and world No. 12 in golf Justin Rose. Track cyclist Jason Kenny won his fifth career gold medal with a victory over teammate Callum Skinner in the men’s sprint event. Gold (band)? For China’s He Zi, being on the medals podium after the   springboard diving final was expected. What wasn’t expected for the silver medalist was for her boyfriend of six years to bring her something potentially just as important. His love and a desire to spend the rest of his life with her. Boyfriend Qin Kai, a fellow Olympic diver, proposed, opening a ring box as He put a hand over her face. Right there in front of everyone.  Good thing for him she said yes. ”(Qin) said a lot of things there at the podium,” He said. ”He made a lot of promises, but the thing that has touched me the most is that I think this is the guy I can trust for the rest of my life.” Making Sunday super, American Simone Biles added to her medal case Sunday, leaping to her third gold in the Rio Olympics and conducting a clinic in the vault discipline. The      world champion now has her sights set on her final two competitions: balance beam on Monday and floor exercise on Tuesday.  Winning gold in the vault, she said, was especially meaningful considering how close she came in recent world championships. ”I feel very excited, because having gone to worlds and having two silvers and a bronze, it means a lot to me. It’s something I wanted so badly, so I just tried to keep a good mind going into vault,” she said. As congratulation poured in, one Twitter voice stood out, as it came from someone who’s been there herself. ”Congratulations Simone more to come . ..” tweeted Nadia Comaneci. Robbed in Rio, Not all the action Sunday was inside the Olympic venues. Olympic medalist Ryan Lochte and three other US swimmers were safe and cooperating with police after being robbed at gunpoint, the US Olympic Committee said.  One of the bandits reportedly put a gun to Lochte’s forehead.  Lochte and fellow swimmers Gunnar Bentz, Jack Conger and Jimmy Feigen had left a hospitality house hosted by France early Sunday in a taxi bound for the Olympic Village.  The vehicle was ”stopped by individuals posing as armed police officers who demanded the athletes’ money and other personal belongings,” said USOC spokesman Patrick Sandusky.  ”I think they’re all shaken up,” Lochte’s mother, Ileana Lochte, told USA Today. Lochte released a statement thanking family, friends, and fans for their support. ”While it is true that my teammates and I were victims of a robbery early Sunday morning, what is most important is that we are safe and unharmed,” he said. Bentz tweeted, ”We are all safe. Thank you for your love and support.” Rio de Janeiro civil police told CNN they opened an investigation a few hours after first learning about the robbery from the media, and had not been contacted by the USOC. Gold medal roundup, Athletics, Men’s 100 meters    Usain Bolt, Jamaica, Athletics, Men’s 400 meters     Wayde van Niekerk  South Africa, Athletics, Women’s Marathon    Jemima Jelagat Sumgong, Kenya, Athletics, Women’s Triple Jump     Caterine Ibargüen, Colombia, Diving, Women’s   Springboard    Shi Tingmao, China, Fencing, Men’s Team Epee    France, Golf, Men’s    Justin Rose, Great Britain, Gymnastics, Men’s Floor Exercise    Max Whitlock, Great Britain, Gymnastics, Men’s Pommel Horse    Max Whitlock, Great Britain  Gymnastics, Women’s Uneven Bars    Aliya Mustafina, United States, Gymnastics, Women’s Vault    Biles, United States, Boxing, Men’s Light Flyweight    Hasanboy Dusmatov, Uzbekistan, Shooting, Men’s   Rifle, Three Positions    Niccolo Campriani, Italy, Sailing, Men’s RS X    Dorian van Rijsselberghe, the Netherlands, Sailing, Women’s RS X    Charline Picon, France, Tennis, Men’s    Andy Murray, Great Britain, Tennis, Mixed Doubles    United States, Tennis, Women’s Doubles    Russia, Track Cycling, Men’s Sprint Finals    Jason Kenny, Great Britain, Weightlifting, Women’s 75 kilograms    Suping, China, Wrestling,   59 kilograms    Ismael Borrero Molina  Cuba, Wrestling,   75 kilograms    Roman Vaslov, Russia