RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Proud and beautiful as this seaside city is, glorious as the feats of athleticism and sportsmanship were these past two weeks, these Games underline that the Olympic model is fractured. As we depart, Rio de Janeiro is left with stadiums for which it has little use and swimming pools far removed from the working class who could dearly use them. Tens of thousands of residents were displaced, a golf course sits atop a former nature preserve, and the towers of the athletes’ village will have a second life as luxury housing. Rio’s state government turns its pockets inside out looking for money to pay salaries and to keep hospitals open. The army withdraws, and fears rise that crime will spiral. The International Olympic Committee has taken steps toward reform. But what it demands of nations is basically unchanged: Build us expensive monuments with a shelf life of two weeks. The I. O. C. has no hammer to bring down when cities fail to deliver on environmental promises. There is a more sustainable and less ruinous path, and I will get to that. First, I should wrestle with the challenge tossed down by my colleague Roger Cohen. He is an incisive, humane observer, and he argued that critics have the Rio Olympics all wrong. His perspective should be reckoned with, even as I disagreed with nearly every word. “I am tired, very tired,” Cohen wrote last week, “of reading negative stories about these Brazilian Olympics  —   the anger in the slums, the violence that continues (including the armed robbery of four American swimmers) the enduring gulf between rich and poor, the occasional organizational hassles, the Russian doping and the Brazilian mosquito, money that could supposedly have been spent better. ” He argued that the developed world harbors an antipathy for grand sporting events held in the developing world. I would turn his formulation on its head. The greatest honor we can pay to a nation is to take its maladies seriously. Brazil overthrew a dictatorship and remains a gloriously messy democracy. Yet police and paramilitary violence and human rights violations accompany its grand sporting events. Brazilian officials, desperate to tamp down the vicious drug gangs before the Olympics, let the army and the police ratchet up violence, to the point that last year the police committed   of the homicides in Rio. Such problems are not unique to Rio de Janeiro. “A major sporting event,” Amnesty International wrote of Rio, “tends to increase the human rights violations that already occur in a host city. ” Corruption scarred these Games, as contractors and politicians sluiced hundreds of millions of dollars into their coffers. Brave journalists here exposed this, and Brazilian prosecutors, to their credit, investigated the metastasizing scandals. Earlier this year, the scion of the nation’s largest construction companies, Odebrecht, an investor in the athletes’ housing, was sentenced to 19 years in prison for his role in another political scandal. We would do well to stanch any North American impulse toward  . The United States walked this twisted path, too. Our Salt Lake 2002 Winter Olympics were a bacchanalia of bribes, doping and corruption. My colleague Cohen claimed to detect another double standard he could recall no reporters poking around impoverished corners of London during its Summer Olympics. If that is so, that is our failure. London remains one of the globe’s more grossly unequal cities, and terrific activism was afoot during those Olympics. I recall walking through London’s East End before those Games and talking with the imams, bakers, construction workers, students and pastors who were the backbone of East London Communities Organization. They successfully pressured the London organizers to pay living wages to all who worked inside the Olympic perimeter. “They said they had obligations to their contractors,” Lina Jamoul, an organizer told me at the time. “We said: ‘What you have is a bureaucracy. That isn’t our problem. ’” Activists in London also applied concerted pressure to get the Olympic corporation to create 2, 000 units of affordable housing after the Games. The Rio Olympics offer nods toward a sustainable future. The handball courts, an example of nomadic architecture, will be dismantled and used to build schools. The media center will become dorms, and sections of the Olympic center could become a public park. There was, however, no movement to ensure livable wages for workers. And not a single flat in the towers where the athletes were housed will be reserved for   and poor Cariocas. The developers obtained the public land for free. A recessionary housing market does threaten their profit margin, which is a pity. More to the point, the loudest protests about these Olympics came not from Berkeley or Oxford but from within Rio de Janeiro. Labor unions, teachers and activists on either side of the coastal mountains that divide this city joined in marches. Their anger, coupled with a wounded economy, might account for the thousands of empty seats seen here these past two weeks. “We liked the talk of the Olympics at first,” noted Carla Maria Avesani, who runs a respected nutrition institute at Rio de Janeiro’s state university, which has suffered grievous cuts in pay and services. “Then Brazilians awoke from this dream. It became a nightmare. ” So what’s the solution? We could place the Games in Los Angeles, London or Paris, or seek a permanent home in Athens, which has historical and emotional resonance. “I very much understand the I. O. C. ’s desire to be more equitable in delivering the Olympics to the developing world,” said Allen Hershkowitz, the founder of Green Sports International, who is an environmental consultant to pro sports leagues and the Olympics. “But the Sochi and Rio Olympics indicate that there are such huge environmental, transportation, water and   questions. ” To retreat to the cities of the Northern Hemisphere, however, strikes me  —   and Hershkowitz  —   as a defeat. What if the I. O. C. instead had awarded Rio de Janeiro three cycles of Olympics: 2016, 2020 and 2024? City officials would have time to learn and grow, to ride out a bad recession and market Rio as a true Olympic city. Activists might have forced the Olympics to truly integrate into the lifeblood of the city, incorporating favelas no less than the beach community of Barra. They might have demanded that the athletes’ towers become   housing. They might demand living wages and true apprenticeship programs. Sewage treatment plants could come on line over the course of a decade. (I opposed the efforts of the former mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to bring the Olympics to New York, the cacophonous echo chamber that is my native city. But I admired his equitable proposal to put Olympic swimming pools and kayak routes in   city parks.) Olympic officials would also possess a stick: If city leaders did not offer measurable progress, the I. O. C. could withdraw the next two rounds of Games. Such a plan offers much for prospective Winter Olympics sites as well. Argentine or Chilean developers in the Andes  —   or Russians in Sochi, for that matter  —   would have time to build out   and environmentally sensitive winter sports resorts over 12 years, cushioned by the security of Olympic branding. (Tennis’s biggest events, from Wimbledon to the United States, French and Australian Opens, build out their businesses in this fashion year after year. The United States Tennis Association recently added renewable energy and recycling at Flushing Meadows.) “You can’t just do this for a   event it’s got to be a   planning,” Hershkowitz said. “Otherwise, you’re left with empty stadiums and a wrecked environment. ” In the end, the Olympics must change. Travel to Athens or Sochi and you will find a shattered vase of a model. Fewer and fewer cities desire that. In the past few years, residents of   host cities revolted, and Oslo and Boston, among other cities, canceled bids to host the Games. I’m no dour Puritan I love great athletics. My heart leapt as I watched Usain Bolt fly down the track and Simone Biles spin and flip as if exempt from the laws of gravity. To stand in the legendary Maracanã stadium for the gold medal men’s soccer game and listen as Brazilians transformed it into a joyous asylum was a wonder. Cariocas were gracious, from Copacabana baristas to an impoverished    Marie Auxiliadora, who invited me into her home in Favela do Mandela to listen to her upset with these   Games. One day, perhaps even next time, we can deliver a sustainable Olympics worthy of them.