KABUL, Afghanistan  —   A United States soldier was killed by a bomb near the southern Afghan city of Lashkar Gah, officials said on Tuesday, days after more than 100 American soldiers arrived there to help plan the strategic city’s defense against a fierce Taliban assault. The United States military has increasingly found itself drawn back to regular combat situations this year as the Afghan forces have struggled against Taliban offensives. The increased American presence around Lashkar Gah in particular, more than two years after British soldiers closed their last base in the city, highlights a scramble to prevent the fall of a major population center. For weeks before the Americans’ arrival, top Afghan generals were being sent from Kabul to hold the line as district after district came under attack, with the Taliban surrounding the city. In a statement on Tuesday, the United States military said the service member had died of “wounds sustained during operations near Lashkar Gah,” the capital of Helmand Province, when a joint patrol encountered an improvised explosive device. Six Afghan soldiers and another American soldier were wounded in the blast. It was the second death of an American soldier in hostile fire in Afghanistan this year, as the force here has mostly been reduced to a smaller advisory mission. In January, Staff Sgt. Matthew Q. McClintock was killed in Marja district, also in Helmand Province. Even as local Afghan officials were reporting the presence of American personnel near the battlefield in the    area, about 10 miles from Lashkar Gah, United States military officials in Kabul insisted that the new team was there only to advise the leadership of the southern police zone based out of the city. “The troops that have gone down there are really focused on force protection of the advisers there, to make sure they are secure,” Brig. Gen. Charles E. Cleveland, a spokesman for the American military in Afghanistan, told reporters on Monday. “What you won’t see is  —   they are not about to go out and conduct operations. ” On Tuesday, General Cleveland said, “The service members killed and wounded today were not a part of the new advisory mission in Lashkar Gah,” suggesting that they were part of the regular advisory support the NATO mission has been providing Afghan special operation forces, often traveling with them in their raids. Still, the line between combat and advising has become remarkably thin as Afghan Special Forces, trained to conduct quick commando raids, have for weeks now been used as ground forces outside Lashkar Gah. Omar Zwak, a spokesman for the governor of Helmand, said that joint operations by NATO forces  —   mostly Americans  —   and Afghan forces were continuing in the    and Babajii neighborhoods outside Lashkar Gah, with the Westerners providing air and ground support. “NATO troops are now on the ground fighting with Afghan forces against the Taliban,” he said. As the top generals were busy in Helmand, the northern city of Kunduz, which was briefly overrun by the Taliban last fall, once again faced strong offensives at its gates. The district of Khanabad briefly fell to the insurgents, and fighting raged less than a mile from the city center. Residents of Kunduz city could hear constant airstrikes into the early hours of Tuesday, with bombings focused on trying to push back the Taliban from Zar Khared, an area less than two miles from the city center. A small group of American advisers is based at the airport in Kunduz, but local officials said Tuesday that they had not left the outpost to join operations. It was a small advisory team of American Special Forces troops that led a desperate effort to retake that city from the Taliban last fall. That American force also called in the botched airstrike that destroyed a Doctors Without Borders hospital in the city, killing 42 people. Most of the roads leading to Kunduz Province remained blocked on Tuesday, and despite continuous airstrikes, ground operations for recapturing the lost territories had not yet started, Afghan officials said. American military officials say they will not allow another Afghan city to fall, not just because of its symbolic implications to the 15 years of NATO presence here, but also because of the politically destabilizing effects it could have on the struggling government in Kabul. As Taliban gains in Helmand continued, an American military battalion was sent to the province this year to bolster the Afghan Army corps that were taking heavy casualties in the fighting. That was the largest deployment of American troops outside major bases in Afghanistan since the end of the NATO combat mission in 2014. In June, President Obama loosened combat restrictions in Afghanistan for the United States military, which remains mostly focused on missions to train and advise Afghan forces and to conduct counterterrorism operations against Al Qaeda and Islamic State affiliates. He later slowed the withdrawal of American troops from the country. The overall military commander in Afghanistan, Gen. John W. Nicholson, can now call for airstrikes more freely, and his advisory teams can accompany Afghan forces in offensive missions to try to turn the tide of critical battles. Under the new rules, the number of airstrikes, which Afghan forces often credit with slowing Taliban advances, have increased significantly. And   strategic bombers returned for the first time in years, with American officials saying the huge warplanes supported missions against Islamic State affiliates in eastern Afghanistan. But American ground forces have increasingly been in the line of fire this year, as reflected in the casualty reports. In addition to the casualties on Tuesday near Lashkar Gah, and the death of Sergeant McClintock in Helmand this January, five American service members were reported wounded in fighting against the Islamic State in eastern Afghanistan last month. The haphazard nature of the Afghan forces’ defense against the Taliban was again on display after the fall of Khanabad district. The district was quickly taken back by an array of Afghan forces, each led by a   official. The governor of   Takhar Province was in the lead, marching in with his local forces and firing from a machine gun mounted on an armored vehicle as at least five other security personnel watched  —   clearly a display meant for the public. He returned to Takhar to a hero’s welcome, received with gifts and flowers. United States military officials have attributed much of the Afghan forces’ struggle to leadership woes in the face of Taliban offensives that they say normally amount to no more than 20 to 30 insurgents trying to overrun a vulnerable checkpoint. “In a perfect world, would you have senior military leaders moving around like that? Perhaps not,” General Cleveland said. “But at the end of the day, we find that most of the challenges facing the Afghan national defense and security forces are tied to leadership. We think it’s a positive thing to have good, strong leaders that are willing to get out, set an example, as well as take charge of what is going on. ”