The Upshot’s new Senate election forecast gives Democrats a 60 percent chance of winning control of the chamber in November. Included within this 60 percent is a 17 percent chance that the Senate ends up evenly split with a Democratic vice president providing the tiebreaking vote. By our count, the Democrats need to win five seats among the 11 most competitive races. (The Democrats will need to win six if Donald J. Trump wins the presidential race we put Mr. Trump’s chances of winning at only  11 percent). Ten of these seats are held by Republicans, and one by a Democrat, Harry Reid of Nevada, who is retiring. That the Democrats are favored in this election should not be surprising. The 2016 Senate elections boded well for the Democrats without any consideration of a possible Trump effect on   races. In recent history, Democrats have done better in presidential election years than in midterm years, when turnout is lower. Most of the senators up for   last went before the voters in the Republican wave election of 2010  —   when the G. O. P. made big and broad gains in an   environment  —   leaving Republicans with several potentially vulnerable incumbents. This year, the Democrats are defending only 10 seats while the Republicans have to preserve 24. On fundamentals alone  —   that is, historical voting patterns, the candidates’ political experience and    —   the Democrats would have about a   shot to win the Senate. The latest Senate polling improves this figure to 60 percent. The framework for our model is broadly similar to the approach we took in 2014, when our Election Day forecast correctly called 35 of 36 Senate races. That approach means starting with the fundamentals as a prior, then updating those beliefs as polling information comes in. We let races affect one another and assume that the    errors will be correlated. The main difference between 2014 and this year is that we have some additional information to gauge candidates’ chances in a presidential year. Previous research suggests that there is a strong relationship between presidential and Senate voting. Accordingly, our model assumes that Senate races will track the presidential race in each state to some degree. That is, if Hillary Clinton has improved her standing in the presidential forecast since the last time a state has been polled, we “ ” the Senate polling average a small amount in the same direction. Incumbents are running in seven of the 10 seats being defended by Democrats. All seven seats are considered safe. For the other three: ■ Democrats are guaranteed to win the seat in California: Barbara Boxer is retiring, and two Democrats  —   Kamala Harris and Loretta Sanchez  —   won the top two spots in an open primary. ■ Initial polling in Maryland showed the Democratic candidate, Chris Van Hollen, up by 20 to 30 points. ■ It’s only in Nevada, where Catherine Cortez Masto is trying to replace Mr. Reid, where the election is competitive. This leaves Democrats with 36 seats that are not up for election this year  —   including two independents, Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Angus King of Maine, who both caucus with Democrats  —   in addition to nine safe seats. Much of the weakness in the Republican position comes from seven G. O. P. incumbents in mostly   states trying to win a second term after first being elected in the Republican wave year of 2010: Ron Johnson in Wisconsin, Mark Kirk in Illinois, Kelly Ayotte in New Hampshire, Pat Toomey in Pennsylvania, Roy Blunt in Missouri, Rob Portman in Ohio, and Marco Rubio in Florida (assuming he wins the Republican primary next week). In addition, the retirement of the Republican Dan Coats along with the entry of the former Democratic senator Evan Bayh in the race in Indiana shifted that seat from a likely Republican hold to a possible Democratic pickup. Richard Burr’s seat in North Carolina also seems vulnerable. Polling indicates that even Senator John McCain of Arizona could be swept out by the encroaching Democratic tide. If Mr. McCain beats back a primary challenge from the Tea Party candidate Kelli Ward, he will face a Democratic challenger, Ann Kirkpatrick, who was within two points in a June poll. Our model gives Ms. Kirkpatrick a roughly    chance of taking the seat. To give themselves a cushion in retaking the Senate, Democrats would probably need to win six of these 11 races: the seven elections with   Republicans the elections in Indiana, Arizona and North Carolina and the contest for Mr. Reid’s seat in Nevada. If Mrs. Clinton wins the presidency and they win five seats, they will most likely control that chamber because the vice president has the tiebreaking vote in the Senate. With so many seats remaining uncertain, the race could still tip in either direction, with Republicans possibly retaining a slim majority or Democrats running the table. As of today, the most likely outcome is a tie.