August 26, 2016, CNN Student News is kicking off its 2016 U. S. presidential election coverage today. We’re having a look at who the candidates are, how they’re polling at this point, and what their convention highlights looked like over the summer. Also featured this Friday: the possible identification of an   planet and the environmental concerns around America’s largest subtropical wilderness. On this page you will find today’s show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call. TRANSCRIPT, Click here to access the transcript of today’s CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ, Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF). 1. What country, which joins southeastern Europe with southwestern Asia, has struggled with domestic violence, international terrorism and a failed military coup over the past year? 2. Amid fears of the Zika virus, the CDC recently warned pregnant women to avoid traveling to parts of what southeastern U. S. city? 3. Scientists in Montana recently unearthed part of a skull belonging to what famous type of dinosaur? 4. Name the city that is scheduled to host the 2020 Summer Olympic Games. 5. Name the U. S. president who signed the act that created the National Park Service 100 years ago. 6. What is the   city in Iraq, where a battle is looming between Iraqi forces and the ISIS terrorist group? 7. In what country is the town of Amatrice, one of several areas heavily damaged by a natural disaster earlier this week? 8. Without pigment, researchers say the eyes of everyone on Earth would be what color    which appears naturally in an estimated 17 percent of the global population? 9. The American Heart Association says people between the ages of 2 and 18 should limit their daily diet to 25 grams of what? 10. Name the national park that is the largest subtropical wilderness in the U. S. CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show.  Thank you for using CNN Student News!