 (CNN) Mohammad   the official spokesman of ISIS and one of its most senior members, has died in Syria, the terror group said in a rare public statement.  His death marks the   killing yet of an ISIS member. A key deputy to ISIS leader Abu Bakr   he was the person floated to be his successor should anything happen to  .  A statement from ISIS’ Amaq news agency on Tuesday said   died while inspecting military operations in the area of Aleppo, Syria. ISIS has not revealed his cause of death and said it ”determined to seek revenge” for the killing. ”After a journey filled with sacrifice and fight against   the Syrian Gallant knight, Abu Mohammed   joined the convoy of martyr leaders,” ISIS said.  ”To the filthy and coward nonbelievers and to the holders of the Christ emblem, we bring the good news, which will keep them awake, that a new generation in the Islamic State . .. that loves death more than life . .. this generation will only grow steadfast on the path to Jihad, stay determined to seek revenge and be violent toward them.” READ: Death of senior leader   caps bad month for ISIS, ’Significant blow’ Coalition forces have not confirmed his death but the Pentagon acknowledged that he was targeted in a precision strike on Tuesday near   Syria.  ”We are still assessing the results of the strike, but  ’s removal from the battlefield would mark another significant blow to ISIS,” Pentagon press secretary Peter Cook said in a statement.  ”  has served as principal architect of ISIS’ external operations and as ISIS’ chief spokesman. He has coordinated the movement of ISIS fighters, directly encouraged   attacks on civilians and members of the military and actively recruited new ISIS  members. The U. S. military will continue to prioritize and relentlessly target ISIS leaders and external plotters in order to defend our homeland, our allies and our partners, while we continue to gather momentum in destroying ISIL’s parent tumor in Iraq and Syria and combat its metastases around the world.” More than a spokesman, As spokesman,   was the group’s most prominent face, the first to announce the ISIS caliphate even before Baghdadi did.  But he was much more than a spokesman, CNN terrorism analyst Paul Cruickshank said.    was well known for ordering operatives to attack countries participating in the   coalition against ISIS. Western intelligence believes he had command responsibility for the Paris attacks.  He is believed to have carried out those orders as one of the ISIS leaders overseeing its security service, known as ”Amniyat,” which includes the external operations unit tasked with international attacks on the West. As such, the external operations unit reported up to  . A number of ISIS followers and members captured and questioned in the last two years, including French jihadists Faiz Bouchrane and Reda Hame, have attested to   as head of the Amniyat. READ:   of Abu Bakr  : I want a new life in Europe, ”In some ways he’s a more dangerous figure than Abu Bakr   because he’s believed to be overseeing the external operations division of ISIS, and that’s the part of ISIS which threatens the West, which carried out the attacks in Paris, which could one day carry out an attack in the US on a significant scale,” Cruickshank said. First to declare ISIS caliphate,   has been with ISIS since its beginnings and was close to   CNN’s Nic Roberston said. In June 2014, he was the first to declare a ”caliphate” for parts of Syria and Iraq, indicating ISIS’ aim of not just being a terrorist group but a governing entity. Born in Syria in 1977,   was the most senior Syrian in ISIS, a trait that some analysts say may have counted against him in a leadership bid among the   terror group. The US State Department officially labeled   a terrorist in August 2014 and put a $5 million bounty on his head. They described him as ”the official spokesman for and a senior leader” of ISIS, a position he obtained after becoming one of the first foreign fighters to oppose U. S.  coalition forces in Iraq. He was arrested in May 2005 in   province and is believed to have spent some time between 2005 and 2010 at the U. S. detention facility, Camp Bucca. READ: Who might lead ISIS if   dies? After his arrival in Syria, he was appointed deputy of Abu Mohammed   leader of the Islamic State of Iraq for the northern province, then as the security leader before assuming a key role in external operations for ISIS, according to the United Nations Security Council.  Crush their heads with rocks, ”He was the mouthpiece of ISIS. He said things like, ’If you can’t shoot them, then stab them, and if you can’t stab them, then crush their heads with rocks. If you can’t do that then drive your cars, your vehicles, to kill them,” Robertson said. ”He absolutely tried to maximize every opportunity to instill fear in Syria and Iraq and the international community and send fighters overseas to attack,” Robertson said. In May 2015, the State Department announced a reward of up to $5 million for information leading to   noting his ”repeated calls for attacks against Westerns” and his pledges to ”defeat” the United States. He said ISIS supporters in the West had a religious duty to launch   attacks, a move analysts call a game changer that may have inspired attacks in North America, Europe and Australia. ”He was the strategic leader of the organization, especially when it comes to attacks on the West,” said journalist Graeme Wood, Edward R. Murrow Press Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. ”To have that voice destroyed is a serious blow to the organization, probably the most significant kill that the enemies of the Islamic state have perpetrated since its declaration of the caliphate.”