 (CNN) Rickie Fowler may have failed to reach the final of the lucrative FedEx Cup playoffs, but the US golfer has been handed a chance to salvage his season at the Ryder Cup. Fowler narrowly missed out on a place at the   Tour Championship after finishing tied for 59th  at the BMW Championship on Sunday    it left him 31st in the standings. However, on Monday the world No. 9 was given one of three wildcards by US Ryder Cup captain Davis Love for the clash with Europe at Hazeltine. The    will make his third appearance in the prestigious team event, but his first on home soil, having been named along with J. B. Holmes and Matt Kuchar. Read: How Europe turned pro, ’80s style, ”We found no weaknesses in his game,” Love said of Fowler. ”He’s such a great teammate. He’s really confident on the big stage as we’ve seen in the Olympics. He plays well all over the world he travels well, brings a lot of intangibles to our team.” Like Kuchar, Fowler was in the US team for the Rio Olympics last month, and played five weeks in a row as he sought to earn FedEx Cup points for the finale    where the overall winner lands a $10 million jackpot. Kuchar, who won a bronze medal at Rio, qualified 16th after tying for fourth at Crooked Stick. He was 11 shots behind winner Dustin Johnson, who had already qualified for the Ryder Cup team. Read: Europe captain names Ryder Cup picks, Holmes was also in that group with Kuchar, scraping into the East Lake field in 28th place overall.  ”I’ve been on a lot of teams with Matt,” Love added. ”He’s got a great attitude for match play. He’s a great partner. Like J. B. he’s consistent. He’s easy to pair. These three guys are who we really all wanted. We’re very confident in them.” Love still has one more wildcard to pick ahead of the Ryder Cup, which runs from September 30 to October 2. Have your say on the Ryder Cup at our Facebook page,   Masters winner Bubba Watson will be hoping to get the nod, having also played at the Olympics and three previous Ryder Cups. Watson, ranked seventh in the world, tied for 20th at the BMW Championship and qualified for the Tour Championship in 24th place. Former Masters winner Charl Schwartzel snatched the final berth from Fowler after a   64 pushed the South African up the leaderboard to share fourth with Kuchar, Holmes, Adam Scott and Ryan Palmer. Visit cnn.  for more Ryder Cup news, Johnson won by three shots from England’s   Paul Casey, who was not eligible for Europe’s Ryder Cup team as he is not a member of his home tour.