 (CNN) Real Madrid salvaged victory from the jaws of defeat as two goals in the dying minutes enabled the reigning European champions to beat Sporting Lisbon   at home.  After Bruno Cesar gave the Portuguese visitors the lead shortly after   a struggling Real    who won the Champions League when beating city rivals Atletico in May    looked set for a shock defeat.  The last time the European champions began the defense of their title with a defeat was when AC Milan were beaten by Ajax Amsterdam in 1994.  Trying to emulate the Italians in a different fashion, by becoming the first team since Milan to defend Europe’s top club prize in 1989 and 1990, Real was indebted to Cristiano Ronaldo for its late equalizer.  A minute from time, the   world footballer of the year    who had previously looked off the pace    drew the   European champions level with a brilliant   into the top corner.  The goal continued his run of having scored in every competitive game against Sporting, where he made his professional debut as a    in 2002, five years after leaving his home in Madeira to join the club’s academy.  Fourteen years after scoring on his Sporting debut, the Portuguese bagged his 550th career goal.  Read: Is Euro 2016 Ronaldo’s greatest triumph?  He had scored in both his previous appearances against Sporting    in the   group stages for his former side Manchester United    holding up his hands to apologize to local fans when scoring in Lisbon before celebrating his late   in Manchester.  Now playing against Sporting for the first time as a Real player, Ronaldo celebrated in muted fashion despite the   nature of his goal.  Real coach Zinedine Zidane will have been delighted by the winner since two of his substitutes combined, as James Rodriguez delivered a sumptuous cross for recent signing Alvaro Morata to head home in the 94th minute.  The victory was significant given that Group F rivals Borussia Dortmund produced a scintillating display as they achieved their biggest European victory when winning   at Legia Warsaw.  The hosts were the first Polish side to contest a Champions League group match in over two decades but they were soon behind as Mario Gotze scored his first Dortmund goal in 1, 250 days following his return from Bayern Munich.  The Germans were   up after 17 minutes, an unprecedented feat for an away side in the Champions League, and their impressive start sets up a mouthwatering clash when Real visits later this month.  Legia, meanwhile, can expect to hear from UEFA after crowd trouble involving the home fans marred the match.  There was no such trouble in Belgium where surprise English champions Leicester City made the perfect start to their Champions League bow when winning   at Club Brugges.  Marc Albrighton had the honor of scoring the Foxes’ first goal in the competition before Algerian star Riyad Mahrez struck a stunning   and a   penalty.  The other match in Group G ended   in Portugal as host Porto drew   with a visiting Copenhagen side, despite the Danes playing the last quarter of the game with ten men.  Tottenham Hotspur has moved its Champions League games to Wembley because of rebuilding work at its regular White Hart Lane Stadium but a record ’home’ crowd of 85, 011 witnessed Spurs fluff their lines in a   defeat by French side Monaco.  North London rivals Arsenal struggled while hosting European matches at Wembley and Spurs, who had stated their ambition of bettering the Gunners’ record, now have work to do when hosting Bayer Leverkusen and CSKA Moscow.  The two remaining teams in Group E played an entertaining   draw in Germany.  Read: Higuain joins Juventus in $99m deal, Juventus may have splashed out nearly $100m on buying striker Gonzalo Higuain from Napoli but he was unable to break the deadlock as the Italians opened Group H with a   draw at home to Europa League winners Sevilla.  The Argentine had the best chance of the match when heading against the crossbar, as the Spaniards played their first European tie under new coach Jorge Sampaoli.  Elsewhere, Lyon beat Croatia’s Dinamo Zagreb  .  For the first time in history, England fielded three sides on a Champions League night after Manchester City’s clash with Borussia Moenchengladbach was postponed because of torrential rain 24 hours earlier.  Sergio Aguero showed no signs of being affected by the delay as the Argentine scored his second   of a   season, taking his tally of goals under new coach Pep Guardiola to nine in just five games.  Read: Messi treble helps Barca to record win, City won   to ensure they keep pace with Group C leaders Barcelona, who recorded their largest Champions League win when thrashing Celtic   on Tuesday.  Those goals contributed to the 50 scored on the opening round of Champions League group games. 