Washington (CNN) The US Air Force said Friday it has grounded 10 of its   Joint Strike Fighters, just over a month after they were declared ”combat ready.” The decision affecting the most expensive weapons system ever was made ”due to the discovery of peeling and crumbling insulation in avionics cooling lines inside the fuel tanks,” the Air Force said in a statement, describing the action as a temporary pause in flight operations.” The faulty cooling lines affected a total of 57 aircraft, the statement said. Only 15 of those planes had been fielded with the remainder still on the production line and will be fixed there.  The plane’s manufacturer, Lockheed Martin, has delivered 108  . The Air Force plans to buy 1, 763 of the jets. Of the 15 grounded aircraft already in the field, 10 had been declared combat ready, one was being used in testing, and the final four were for training, with two of those four training aircraft belonging to the Royal Norwegian Air Force.  ”While nearing completion, the   is still in development and challenges are to be expected,” the Air Force said. Representatives from the Air Force and Lockheed Martin’s   program told CNN that the defective cooling lines were not found in all the aircraft. They said the use of the faulty part was limited to one   that did not work on all the planes. ”Safety is always our first consideration and Lockheed Martin is committed to resolving this issue as quickly as possible to return jets to flying status,” Michael Rein, a spokesman for Lockheed Martin, told CNN in a statement. The   jet has been described as the most expensive weapons system in history with a program cost estimated to be $400 billion. The   is the Air Force’s version of the jet, the US Marines and Navy will also have their own   variants. Neither of the latter services’ aircraft were affected.  Upon the Air Force  ’s receipt of initial operational capability status in August, Gen. Hawk Carlisle, commander of Air Combat Command, said: ”The   will be the most dominant aircraft in our inventory because it can go where our legacy aircraft cannot and provide the capabilities our commanders need on the modern battlefield.” The grounding of the planes was first reported by Bloomberg News. 