 (CNN) Jose Mourinho’s Manchester United slipped to a third damaging defeat in just nine days as Watford secured a   home win over the Red Devils Sunday. It was the first time in over a decade that such a fate has befallen a   team.  After a promising start to the season, including victory at Wembley in the FA Community Shield, United’s woes began with last weekend’s defeat to city rival and English Premier League leader Manchester City. Thursday’s lackluster loss to Feyenoord in the Europa League has been followed by another EPL defeat at Vicarage Road    Watford’s first win over United in 30 years. United’s record signing Paul Pogba rattled the woodwork with a   effort, but   midfielder Etienne Capoue struck his fourth goal in six games to put the host ahead. United improved after the break and when teenager Marcus Rashford was quick to react to put the visitor level just after the hour mark it looked ominous for Watford. But Hornets boss Walter Mazzarri introduced Juan Camilo Zuniga off the bench, and the Colombian scored with his first touch of the ball on 83 minutes from Roberto Pereya’s pass. Can Mourinho turn it around? Have your say on our Facebook page, Zuniga, on loan from Napoli, was then fouled by Marouane Fellaini in injury time    and Troy Deeney converted from the spot to complete a famous victory. Watford’s first win over United since 1986 left Mourinho    who replaced Louis van Gaal in May    frustrated with his squad. ”We started the season very well and had good results. I feel the first moment we had a defeat, a difficult situation, some of the boys are having a bit of difficulty coping with the negativity,” the former Chelsea, Inter Milan and Real Madrid coach said. The outspoken Portuguese could not resist a dig at referee Michael Oliver, believing there had been a foul on Anthony Martial leading up to Capoue’s opening goal, but he also rued his side’s ’individual and collective mistakes.” A crucial moment came when the scores were level and summer signing Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s header was kept out brilliantly by Heurelho Gomes before the late intervention by Zuniga. ”We were the better team when we lost,” Mourinho claimed. The defeat left United six points adrift of Manchester City after five games of the EPL season, and outside the top four. Later Sunday, Tottenham Hotspur moved up to third with a   home win over struggling Sunderland. England striker Harry Kane scored the winner in the second half but was later stretchered off with an ankle injury. In other matches, Crystal Palace thrashed bottom club Stoke   and Southampton edged Swansea  . In Spain, Real Madrid claimed top spot from   Barcelona with a   win at Espanyol. Goals in each half from James Rodriguez and Karim Benzema sealed a comfortable victory for the European champion, which maintained its 100% record after four games in La Liga. In Italy, Serie A champion Juventus lost   at Inter Milan, which came from behind to secure its second win in five games thanks to   goals from Mauro Icardi and Ivan Perisic. Visit cnn.  for more news and features, Napoli ended the weekend on top of the table, one point clear of Juve, following Saturday’s   over Bologna.