MIAMI  —   Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and John McCain of Arizona brushed off primary challenges on Tuesday from Republican contenders. Mr. Rubio will face a   race against Representative Patrick Murphy, a   Democrat, in a crucial contest for control of the Senate. Mr. McCain, seeking a sixth term, could also face a serious challenge, from Representative Ann Kirkpatrick, who has made it a point of her campaign to court Latinos and American Indians in an increasingly diverse and competitive state. The contest between Mr. Rubio and Mr. Murphy is likely to be among the most expensive Senate contests in the country. With his onetime rival Donald J. Trump at the top of the Republican presidential ticket, Mr. Rubio, 45, will seek to fend off Mr. Murphy, 33, who has faced recent accusations of résumé padding. They were not the only recognizable names to win races on Tuesday and move on to the Nov. 8 general election. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the embattled former Democratic National Committee chairwoman, won her South Florida battle against a   law professor who was endorsed by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. The primary results appeared to point to a preference among voters in Florida, a pivotal swing state, to eschew more extreme candidates on the right and the left in favor of establishment lawmakers favored by national party leaders. Mr. McCain, 80, of Arizona faced a challenge from his right from Kelli Ward, a family doctor and a former state senator. In Florida, Mr. Rubio, who was asked by Republican leaders to enter the Senate race after saying he would not seek   defeated Carlos Beruff, a wealthy   gulf coast homebuilder. Mr. Beruff, who spent $8 million of his money on his bid, is an avid supporter of Mr. Trump. Mr. Rubio’s Democratic opponent, Mr. Murphy, bested Representative Alan Grayson, a liberal provocateur who was favored by many progressives but faced ethics inquiries in the House and accusations that he had abused his former wife. “I commit to you that I will serve my full term,” Mr. Murphy told supporters Tuesday night, suggesting that Mr. Rubio would run for president again instead. Earlier Tuesday, in an interview on CNN, Mr. Rubio had been reluctant to commit to a full term, saying, “No one can make that commitment because you don’t know what the future’s going to hold in your life personally or politically. ” In a victory speech on Tuesday night, Mr. Rubio pointed out that Mr. Murphy, whose father is a millionaire, grew up wealthy, a sharp contrast to Mr. Rubio’s humble upbringing. Mr. Rubio added that he had no intention to deliver a “rubber stamp,” no matter who was elected president in November. Florida voters were asked to cast ballots for an unusually high number of contested congressional primaries, the result of a   redistricting map that changed 24 of the state’s 27 districts. One tough fight on Tuesday was the Democratic primary in Miami’s 26th Congressional District, where former Representative Joe Garcia defeated Annette Taddeo, who was selected by former Gov. Charlie Crist to be his running mate in his failed 2014 bid to recapture the governor’s office. Mr. Garcia had faced criticism over fraudulent absentee ballots in 2012, but was never charged with wrongdoing. One of his former staff members pleaded guilty and served jail time. Mr. Garcia will face a   incumbent, Representative Carlos Curbelo, whose seat is threatened by the new redistricting map, which made the district less hospitable to Republicans. Mr. Curbelo won the seat from Mr. Garcia in 2014. Farther north in Florida, Representative Corrine Brown, a House stalwart who more than 20 years ago became one of the first   elected to Congress from Florida, lost her seat to Al Lawson, a former state senator. Ms. Brown and her chief of staff were indicted in July on federal charges of conspiracy and fraud. But Ms. Brown’s   troubles predated her indictment. Her district was changed significantly, making it harder for a Democrat to win.