AUGUSTA, Me.  —   The beleaguered Republican governor of Maine seemed on Tuesday to back off from hints that he might quit in the midst of a controversy over his latest tirades of obscene, threatening and racially charged remarks, as Republican lawmakers in the House rallied to quash the possibility of formally rebuking him  —   or worse  —   for his erratic behavior. Gov. Paul R. LePage, whose tenure here has often seemed to lurch from one   crisis to another, began the day by suggesting in a radio interview Tuesday morning that he was considering stepping down as the outrage generated by a profane voice mail and his apparent endorsement of racial profiling drew admonishments even from members of his party. “It’s really one thing to have one party behind you,” Mr. LePage said on the radio, in an interview that was at times uncharacteristically  . “It’s another thing not to have any party behind you. ” But in the early afternoon, in a Twitter message, Mr. LePage seemed to have regained his spirit of defiance. “Regarding rumors of resignation, to paraphrase Mark Twain, ‘The reports of my political demise are greatly exaggerated,’” the message read. Mr. LePage was spending much of the day in the town of Baileyville, 170 miles from here, near the Canadian border. By nighttime, it was clear there was a basis for the governor’s renewed swagger, as House Republican leaders said they would not join the calls to convene a special session, which would have raised the possibility of impeachment. “We believe that the governor is addressing this issue,” said State Representative Kenneth Fredette, an ally of Mr. LePage’s and the minority leader of the House. “We are not interested in coming back in a special session. ” Speaking with reporters after the caucus meeting, Mr. Fredette condemned Mr. LePage’s remarks  —   “No one agrees with what the governor said or did,” he said  —   and asserted that “no one gets a free pass. ” But he then seemed to give one to Mr. LePage, saying that a special session would distract voters from important issues ahead of the fall election. Since he was elected in 2010 and   in 2014, Mr. LePage has had at least nine political lives and been able to ride out waves of controversy, often provoked by his harsh, insulting and racially charged statements. The outbursts have angered Democrats and embarrassed moderate Republicans, yet left largely unruffled a political base drawn to the former businessman’s unfiltered style. Democrats and some Senate Republicans raised the possibility of a special session to consider ways to rebuke the governor, but such a session could be held only with the approval of half of both caucuses in each legislative chamber. The House Republican caucus held the line after meeting at 6 p. m. The caucus meeting followed days of controversy, after Mr. LePage stated at a   meeting last Wednesday that the vast majority of heroin dealers in Maine were black and Hispanic. As criticism swelled, Mr. LePage came to believe that a Democratic lawmaker, Drew Gattine, had called him a racist, and left him a threatening voice mail threaded with obscenities, which he followed by suggesting that he and Mr. Gattine have a duel. On Friday, Mr. LePage reiterated his comments about drugs and race, showing reporters a binder of people arrested on drug charges and asserting that black and Hispanic people from out of state were the “enemy. ” Those comments led Amy Volk, a Republican in the Senate, to make a public break with Mr. LePage, questioning his sanity and sobriety in a Facebook post, although she later apologized for doing so. She called for a special legislative session to consider a censure of Mr. LePage. “It’s just so nonproductive,” Ms. Volk said in an interview on Tuesday. “And so offensive to   citizens of color, that they would be somehow lumped in with people that are breaking the law just because of the color of their skin. ” Democratic leaders said they would continue to call for the governor’s resignation. “What the House Republicans have done is slammed the door on their willingness to actually address this behavior at this time,” said Jeff McCabe, the Democratic majority leader of the House, on Tuesday night. “We think that we can work with Senate Republicans as well as some House Republicans who we know are not happy with tonight’s display of political theater. ” Mr. LePage met with Republican legislative leaders on Monday, when he was urged to take steps like apologizing directly to the lawmaker he had threatened, and was asked to seek help, professional or otherwise, according to a person briefed on the discussions. During his interview on the radio station WVOM, Mr. LePage said he “just can’t do” some of the Senate Republicans’ demands, although he did not specify which ones. He added that Republican lawmakers in the   House want “to salvage what we can and move forward. ” He went on to say that he was looking at “options,” conceding that his remarks had cost him crucial support. “If I’ve lost my ability to convince the Maine people that’s what we need and that’s the type of people we need in Augusta, then you know, maybe it is time to move on,” he said. His later Twitter message ridiculed any talk of his stepping down. On the radio, he also apologized for his behavior toward Mr. Gattine, calling it “totally, totally unnecessary,” although, in an interview with local television that afternoon, he suggested that Mr. Gattine owed an apology to him. In the morning’s radio interview, he also defended his comments on drugs and race, saying linking the two were “fact,” and adding, “All lives matter. ” “Every drug arrest we get the story, and the people, and when it comes to meth labs, they’re essentially all Maine white people,” Mr. LePage said. “When it comes to the heroin epidemic, it’s just the opposite. ” The imbroglio seems to have strengthened some Republicans’ commitment to Mr. LePage in some parts of the state in Lewiston on Monday night, a bartender and a patron   when they realized they both still supported the governor. But it has left those who associate more strongly with the state’s tradition of moderate Republicans, like Senator Susan Collins or Margaret Chase Smith, trying to explain his actions. “It seems to be the norm now to speak what’s on your mind now without a filter,” said Wendy Ault, a former Republican state representative and a member of the Early College Task Force appointed by Mr. LePage, adding, “I believe in civilized discourse. ”