Amid the modern skyscrapers of Shanghai, the parties to a   treaty are at war. At stake are the spoils of a   industry and a minority group’s ability to retain its customs in a   China. Also, noodles. When Xian Gulin opened a halal restaurant in Shanghai last month that serves   beef noodles, he hoped patrons would line up at his door. What he got instead was an entrance blocked for weeks by protesters. The protesters, like Mr. Xian, were Hui, a Muslim ethnic minority, originally from China’s northwest. They accused the restaurateur of violating the    Treaty, a social pact that prohibits the Hui from opening halal noodle shops within 400 meters of each other  —   roughly 1, 300 feet. To appease the protesters, Mr. Xian eventually agreed to take down the halal insignia from his storefront. The origins of the treaty are unknown, but restaurateurs say it originally capped the number of noodle shops in a Hui village at one. As more Hui began moving eastward into China’s growing coastal cities, they brought a variant of the treaty with them. “For the Hui as a community, maintaining their halal traditions and restaurants has been critical to their survival, so it’s not surprising that in a highly capitalized society, these rivalries would bubble to the surface,” said Dru Gladney, an anthropology professor at Pomona College in California and an expert on Chinese ethnic minorities. The halal food industry has flourished in China as the country has pursued closer economic relations with   Middle Eastern nations. In Qinghai Province alone, sales of halal food products in 2014 totaled about $2. 8 billion. On Weibo, a Chinese social media platform, online commenters condemned the protests. Even the Islamic Association of Qinghai got involved, declaring the boycott of Mr. Xian’s restaurant a violation of “fair competition” that caused “social instability. ” Still, Hui restaurateurs insist that the treaty is more necessary than ever. “We worked so hard to climb our way up, so we can’t tolerate people who do not respect the treaty,” said Ma Yi Buo La, 37, who owns a halal noodle shop in Shanghai. “People who don’t abide by the treaty, they’re not good people,” he said. Yet enforcement of the treaty is increasingly difficult as halal cuisine becomes more popular across China. “It was a tradition in our villages back home, but I don’t think anyone really respects this treaty anymore in large cities,” said Ma Kefu, 19, a Gansu native who now works at a halal restaurant in Beijing. To make his point, he gestured across the street. No more than 15 feet away stood another halal restaurant, its intricate halal insignia prominently on display.