SEOUL, South Korea  —   The North Korean leader, Kim   has executed his deputy premier for education and purged two other senior officials, sending them to   camps, the South Korean government said on Wednesday. Jeong   a spokesman for the South’s Unification Ministry, said at a news briefing that the South Korean government had used various means to confirm the execution of Kim   the deputy premier, and the purge of Kim   the head of the United Front Department of the ruling Workers’ Party, which handles relations with, as well as spying operations against, South Korea. Choe Hui, a deputy chief of the party’s Propaganda and Agitation Department, was also banished for   Mr. Jeong said. Mr. Jeong provided no further details, including when the reported punishments were believed to have taken place or how South Korea had learned of them. But in a later briefing, a senior Unification Ministry official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters, said that Kim   had found fault with the    deputy premier’s “disrespectful posture” during a meeting that Mr. Kim oversaw in late June. A subsequent investigation found the deputy premier to be an “  reactionary” guilty of “  factionalism,” and he was executed by firing squad in July, the official said. Kim   would be the   official known to have been executed since 2013, when North Korea confirmed in a rare announcement that Kim   had executed his own uncle and No. 2 official, Jang   on charges of factionalism, corruption and plotting to overthrow his government. The ministry official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that Kim   the leader of the United Front Department, had spent a month at a   camp on suspicion of abuse of power and that he had been released in  . Kim   is seen as a   by South Korean officials. He was accused of helping orchestrate recent armed provocations by the North along the   border, including an artillery barrage against a South Korean island in 2010, when he was the army’s intelligence chief. The Unification Ministry official said Mr. Kim would now need to prove his loyalty, which the official said raised the possibility that the North could take more aggressive actions toward South Korea. Since taking power in 2011, Kim   has frequently reshuffled the party and military elites as he has consolidated his authority in North Korea, which his family has ruled for seven decades. Mr. Kim has also executed dozens of top officials in what President Park   of South Korea has called a “reign of terror,” according to South Korean intelligence officials. It remains difficult to independently verify  reports of executions and purges in the secretive North. North Korea rarely announces them. It was unusual for a South Korean government spokesman to make them public in an open news briefing, though intelligence officials have often briefed lawmakers in   parliamentary sessions. In one such briefing last year, lawmakers were told that Gen. Hyon   the defense minister, had been executed with an antiaircraft gun in Pyongyang, the North’s capital, after dozing off during military events and   Mr. Kim’s orders. Mr. Jeong, the government spokesman, said that he was responding to recent reports in the South Korean news media. On Tuesday, the   daily JoongAng Ilbo, citing an anonymous source, reported that Hwang Min, a former North Korean agriculture minister, and Ri   a senior Education Ministry official, had been executed with antiaircraft guns in early August. The newspaper reported that Mr. Ri had been arrested after dozing off during a meeting supervised by Mr. Kim and that Mr. Hwang had proposed a policy that was deemed to represent a challenge to Mr. Kim’s leadership. Mr. Jeong did not comment on the fates of those two officials in his briefing on Wednesday. JoongAng Ilbo reported that the officials’ reported executions might have been aimed at tightening Mr. Kim’s control after a senior North Korean diplomat’s recent defection to the South. South Korean officials often cite such   defections, and purges like those announced Wednesday, as potential sources of instability in Mr. Kim’s totalitarian regime. But some analysts dispute such conclusions. Purges and executions remain a key feature of political life in the North, said Cheong   a senior analyst at the Sejong Institute, a South Korean research organization. But he said such persecutions, while barbaric, had become less frequent and “relatively restrained” under Kim  . Mr. Kim’s father, Kim   was estimated to have purged more than 2, 000 officials from 1994 to 2000, he said.