WASHINGTON  —   Florida announced on Thursday that, for the first time, mosquitoes in Miami Beach had tested positive for the Zika virus, a disappointing confirmation that the virus is still active in the area. The Aedes aegypti mosquito that spreads Zika is famously difficult to fight, and experts often say that testing the bugs to find the virus is like looking for a needle in a haystack. The three samples that tested positive all came from a 1.   area in Miami Beach where locally acquired cases of Zika had been confirmed. The significance of the results depends on where the mosquitoes were collected, said Scott C. Weaver, the director of the Institute for Human Infections and Immunity at the University of Texas Medical Branch. If they are from in or around the houses of people with active infections, the chances of the bugs’ being infected are higher. If the virus was found in mosquitoes in a more distant location, that could point to a bigger infection area than thought. A spokeswoman for the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services said state law prevented the disclosure of the traps’ location. The department said in a statement that since May, it had tested more than 2, 470 mosquito samples, consisting of more than 40, 000 mosquitoes. The three samples that the department announced on Thursday were the first to test positive. Zika causes mild symptoms  —   rashes and joint pain  —   for most people, but it can cause severe brain damage in the fetuses of pregnant women who are infected. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is tracking more than 1, 500 pregnant women who have been infected with Zika. So far, at least 16 babies have been born with birth defects. Florida is the only place in the continental United States where Zika is actively circulating, but the virus is spreading. The first cluster of cases was in a Miami neighborhood called Wynwood. The outbreak in that area seems to have subsided, but health officials discovered a new cluster in Miami Beach on Aug. 18, and the C. D. C. warned pregnant women not to travel there. Zika is not expected to spread explosively in the United States as it has in Latin America and the Caribbean, because Americans live in less crowded conditions and usually have window screens and air conditioning, which block infected mosquitoes from spreading the virus. In all, Florida has more than 45 homegrown cases, nearly all in   County. The first were announced in July. “The good news is the weekly number of new cases isn’t changing much,” Dr. Weaver said. “If we were seeing at first five cases a week, then 10, then 20 and then 100, we’d be very concerned. ” Even so, the mosquito has proved a stubborn foe, particularly in Miami Beach. Aerial spraying, which has been effective in Wynwood, has not happened in Miami Beach, in part because its high buildings make spraying complicated, but also because some residents oppose it. But experts say aerial spraying there is possible, and on Thursday, Gov. Rick Scott said the C. D. C. had recommended that Miami Beach be sprayed using helicopters. He said the state had made funds available “to immediately conduct aerial spraying in Miami Beach. ” But it was not clear when that might happen. When asked about aerial spraying in a telephone interview, Michael Grieco, a Miami Beach city commissioner, said: “No determination has been made. It’s not really practical with all the geography. ”