CARACAS, Venezuela  —   Thousands took to the streets here on Thursday to demand the ouster of President Nicolás Maduro in what appeared to be the year’s largest display of frustration with Venezuela’s economic collapse and leadership. The march, which protesters called “the taking of Caracas,” was organized by political opponents of the country’s ruling leftists. The marchers took over a major highway and several avenues in Caracas, the nation’s capital, and poured into the city’s plazas in an effort to gain momentum for a referendum to recall Mr. Maduro. But the discontent was far greater than mere political frustration in a country that has spiraled into economic ruin. Some protesters traveled for hours from parts of Venezuela where they said they could no longer find enough food. Others said they could not find work, or that their cities were plagued by violence and suffering from a lack of government presence. Ivonne Mejías, 42, who wore a headband of yellow, blue and red, the colors of the Venezuelan flag, said the situation had become so difficult that she had not been able to bake birthday cakes for her children this year. Her family of four gets by on just $25 a week, Ms. Mejías said, and she has taken to making piñatas to earn extra money. “Sometimes I want to kill myself,” she said. “I am frustrated, I am out of control, I am fighting with this world. This isn’t my life. My soul splits in two when my kids beg for something  —   for an ice cream, for a cookie  —   and I can’t give it to them. The most difficult thing is getting food. ” Víctor Guilarte, 45, a mechanic from a Caracas suburb, said his work had vanished because his neighbors had become so poor they could not afford car repairs. Two weeks ago, he said, he visited his family in another state and found the situation even worse. “I came back feeling destroyed  —   they had no food,” he said. “I am tired of Maduro and his government, tired of crime, of hunger, of them telling us we have plenty to eat. I want a referendum, and if there is no referendum, I want him to resign. ” Mr. Maduro called on his supporters to take to the streets to stage a counterprotest, which drew crowds dressed in red, the color of former President Hugo Chávez’s leftist movement. The government also appeared to be cracking down on opponents. Days earlier, Daniel Ceballos, an opposition leader under house arrest on charges of inciting violence, was transferred to a jail cell. The government said he had planned to agitate for violence during the protest. Other opposition parties said members had either been arrested or gone into hiding. The authorities were also trying to tamp down foreign news media coverage. The Committee to Protect Journalists, a nonprofit group based in New York, said Wednesday that at least six journalists, including two from Al Jazeera and one from the French newspaper Le Monde, were barred from entering the country at the airport. Jim Wyss, a reporter for The Miami Herald, was allowed to enter, only to be forced to leave despite having a valid journalist visa, The Herald said. “He was doing his job when he was detained,” said Aminda Marqués Gonzalez, the paper’s executive editor. In a nation where the price of bread rises each week, along with the length of bakery lines, there has been no shortage of anger and desperation. The spring was characterized by droughts that stalled the nation’s hydroelectric system. Blackouts rolled across the country, shutting off the lights in homes and emergency rooms. Mr. Maduro announced a cut in the workweek, to four days  —   and later to two  —   to conserve electricity. By summer, the nation’s food supply was dwindling. The lines where Venezuelans had been accustomed to waiting for food turned into mobs that attacked bakeries, butcher shops and groceries. Delivery trucks were also attacked, their contents looted. The government ordered the food supply to be transported under armed guards. That dire situation led many to make long journeys to the capital to vent their complaints on Thursday. It was unclear how many participated in the march, and government officials had sought to forestall a large demonstration. Official roadblocks appeared Wednesday night at tunnels leading to Caracas, snarling traffic for hours as the police questioned passengers about their motives. Gerardo Molina, 21, a political science student from Zulia, a state in Venezuela’s far west, made a   bus journey to join the march, a trip he said would have taken eight hours if the police were not monitoring the roads. Mr. Molina expressed the worry typical of many young Venezuelans who fear they may never inherit the rich petro state that had given their parents assurances of a comfortable life. Many young people have simply packed their bags and sought a future in other South American countries where the economies are more prosperous. “Young people are the ones who suffer the most because we feel we have no future,” Mr. Molina said. “I don’t want to leave this country, which is why I came to this march. ” Marly Torrealba, 37, a single mother, came by bus from Barlovento, a city once known for its cacao production. Ms. Torrealba complained that the government had abandoned the city to organized crime, and it was now rocked by killings, extortions and kidnappings. “Farm workers have abandoned the crop because of crime,” she said, “and the criminals charge us protection money and rob everything in sight. ” While the Maduro government was the target of the protests, much seemed to be at stake for Venezuela’s political opposition, which has struggled to translate the anger of the country’s collapse into popular support. The opposition, riding a wave of discontent with Mr. Maduro, took over the National Assembly in January. Its members promised to enact   reforms that would revive the collapsing economy free a number of jailed political leaders and, most crucially, have a referendum that they said would remove Mr. Maduro from office within months. None of that has come to pass. Mr. Maduro, backed by a Supreme Court controlled by leftists, quickly managed to block the opposition’s reform measures, overturning a bill to free political prisoners and using the courts to grant himself expanded presidential powers over the objections of Congress. Even the movement to recall him has been stalled. Opposition politicians promised to hold a vote this year on the referendum, which would force leftists to hold a new election if Mr. Maduro lost. However, the country’s electoral body issued a timetable in which the vote would be held next year if Mr. Maduro were removed, his handpicked vice president would serve out the end of his term, which ends in 2019. Opposition leaders vowed on Thursday to redouble their efforts to remove the president. “Everyone wake up Maduro if he can manage to sleep,” Henrique Capriles, an opposition leader, wrote on Twitter. “All of Caracas is mobilizing itself for the referendum. To have a true homeland!”