Oklahoma officials on Saturday ordered oil and gas operators to shut down three dozen wastewater disposal wells following a 5.  earthquake that tied a record as the strongest in state history. The quake, centered near Pawnee, rattled the state just after 8 a. m. Eastern time Saturday, tying a record set in 2011 for the strongest such tremor in Oklahoma history, according to the National Weather Service. Local officials reported moderate to severe damage and at least one   injury. “We are finding a lot of rural houses north, northwest of Pawnee that are seeing extensive damage,” Sheriff Mike Waters of Pawnee County said on Saturday. Pawnee County Emergency Management posted photos on Facebook just before noon of a pile of rubble, noting that three buildings had moderate damage, while several others had minor damage. Rocks and bricks fell from some businesses in town, and items fell off grocery store shelves, Sheriff Waters added. Gov. Mary Fallin declared a state of emergency for Pawnee County. She said on Twitter that crews inspecting bridges for damage found few in need of repair. The United States Geological Survey recorded later earthquakes of magnitudes 3. 6, 3. 4 and 2. 9. The first quake was felt as far away as Chicago and Austin, Tex. Thousands of earthquakes have hit Oklahoma in recent years. Most have been imperceptible, but the number that can be felt  —   generally of magnitude 3. 0 and higher  —   has risen significantly. Only three earthquakes of that size or stronger were recorded in 2009. Last year, the state had 907 such quakes. So far this year, there have been more than 400. Many seismologists say the quakes are caused by   injection of wastewater from oil and gas wells, both conventional and hydraulically fractured, or fracked. As wastewater under pressure migrates into rock formations, it alters stresses along old faults, allowing them to slip. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission, which oversees oil and gas activity, announced that it had ordered the shutdown of wastewater wells across about 500 square miles in the area hit by the quake. About three dozen wells are affected, and will have to shut down in as little as a week, Ms. Fallin said on Twitter. The United States Geological Survey said in a statement that oil and gas activity had set off many earthquakes in the state, but that it could not yet say the practice caused Saturday’s quake. “Without studying the specifics of the wastewater injection and oil and gas production in this area, the U. S. G. S. cannot currently conclude whether or not this particular earthquake was caused by   human activities,” it said. Oklahoma has thousands of wastewater disposal wells. Since   the state has ordered operators of some to reduce the volume of wastewater injected, in the hope of reducing earthquakes. The earthquake on Saturday was the largest in the state since a 5.  quake struck near Prague, about 60 miles south of Pawnee, in November 2011. That quake injured two people and damaged more than a dozen homes and a college building.