HANGZHOU, China  —   President Obama sought on Sunday to heal a rift with Turkey, expressing his wholehearted support for its president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in the wake of a failed effort to oust him and promising America’s help in bringing the coup plotters to justice. Mr. Obama’s comments, after he met with Mr. Erdogan before a Group of 20 summit meeting here, seemed calculated to smooth over hard feelings in Turkey, where some officials had blamed the United States for fomenting the July 15 uprising by elements of the military. He said nothing about Mr. Erdogan’s crackdown after the coup, in which tens of thousands of people were  arrested. And his reference to helping Turkey bring the perpetrators of the uprising to justice was not accidental: Mr. Erdogan is demanding that the United States extradite Fethullah Gulen, a Turkish Muslim cleric living in Pennsylvania whom he accused of inciting the coup. “This is the first opportunity that I’ve had to meet face to face with President Erdogan since the terrible attempted coup,” Mr. Obama said, facing the Turkish leader across a long table. “We’re glad you’re here, safe, and that we are able to continue to work together. ” He papered over the fact that Turkey’s interests have diverged recently from those of the United States, particularly in Syria, where Turkish forces have intervened to prevent Syrian Kurds from making further gains in the northern part of the country. The Kurds are trained and equipped by the United States, which views them as critical in the military campaign against the Islamic State. But Mr. Erdogan fears they are trying to create an unbroken Kurdish corridor just south of Turkey’s border with Syria. The Syrian Kurds have links to Turkish Kurds, who have been fighting his government. Mr. Erdogan said it was important for the United States and Turkey to fight against all terrorist groups, not just the Islamic State. He mentioned the acronyms of two Syrian Kurdish groups. “We have to embrace the same stance against all terrorist organizations around the world,” he said. “Our hope is never to see a belt of terrorism, a corridor of terrorism emerging in or around our region. ” Still, Mr. Erdogan was more conciliatory to Mr. Obama than he had been toward Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. when Mr. Biden traveled to Turkey last month. Mr. Biden apologized for not having visited sooner, but Mr. Erdogan sat   complaining that Mr. Gulen used his home in Pennsylvania as a base to destabilize the Turkish government. On Sunday, Mr. Erdogan did not repeat those claims. He merely said that the Turkish government planned to submit additional legal evidence against Mr. Gulen to the Justice Department, which will recommend to a federal judge whether to extradite him. Mr. Erdogan noted that the Justice Department had sent officials to Turkey to investigate the case. Earlier in the day, Mr. Obama held his first meeting with Britain’s new prime minister, Theresa May. He reassured her, as he had her predecessor, David Cameron, that Britain’s vote to leave the European Union would have no effect on its relationship with the United States.