ROSEMONT, Ill.  —   An imam of a mosque in New York City and his associate shot dead while strolling following afternoon prayers. A presidential candidate calling for Muslims to be barred from entering the United States. Muslim women harassed and physically attacked in Chicago while walking to their car. During the Islamic Society of North America convention that started here on Friday, official speakers said these actions had become all too commonplace in the United States. “In this political climate, we’ve seen a normalization of bigotry,” said Altaf Husain, an associate professor at Howard University and a vice president of the society, whose convention here is the largest Muslim gathering in the United States and Canada. But Mr. Husain, expressing what he said was the sentiment of many other American Muslims, said the Obama administration had made it a priority to bolster engagement with Muslims across the country. The latest example of the administration’s engagement came Saturday night when Jeh Johnson, the secretary of Homeland Security, became the first sitting cabinet member to address the Islamic Society’s convention. Mr. Johnson said his speech was part of a sustained outreach effort that has taken him from the suburbs of Washington to Minneapolis to Los Angeles, where he has met with community leaders and visited mosques, while fielding questions about racial profiling and   speech on the presidential campaign trail. In his address, Mr. Johnson told the audience that their lives were “the quintessential American story. ” He listed the contributions of   American Muslims, such as the boxer Muhammad Ali and Dalilah Muhammad, who won a gold medal in the   hurdles last month at the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, and said they were not just Muslim heroes, but American heroes. “It’s frustrating to listen to those who foment fear, suspicion and intolerance,” Mr. Johnson said, “who don’t know the mistakes of history and are in the midst of repeating them. ” Mr. Johnson said his own history had made him more sensitive to the angry speech and physical attacks directed at Muslims. He cited his grandfather, Charles S. Johnson, the first black president of Fisk University, who was called before the infamous House   Activities Committee in 1949. In his testimony, he denied being a communist and defended the patriotism of   who were accused of being   for advocating civil rights. The irony is that the room where his grandfather testified is now the same room where the House Homeland Security Committee meets, Mr. Johnson said. “My grandfather likely testified in that hearing room to defend his patriotism now his grandson testifies in the same room to explain what the U. S. government is doing to defend our nation,” Mr. Johnson said. “This is the promise and wonder of this country. ” Mr. Johnson spoke to an audience that featured Khizr and Ghazala Khan, who made international headlines in July during the Democratic National Convention by criticizing the Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump, for his proposals to bar Muslims from entering the United States. The Khans lost their son, Humayun, an Army captain, while he was serving in Iraq. Although Mr. Johnson’s speech was greeted warmly, there were several small instances of protest. A few “boos” could be heard when Mr. Johnson entered to speak, and a couple of people held up a sign protesting the Department of Homeland Security’s deportation policies. The conference also featured a heated debate among several Muslim scholars and activists about the Department of Homeland Security’s efforts to counter extremism and recruitment by groups like the Islamic State. Several panelists said the government’s efforts focused on potential extremism within Muslim communities to the exclusion of white nationalist groups, which have been linked to several domestic terrorist attacks. George Selim, who heads the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Community Partnerships, said the department worked to counter the spectrum of extremism, and that his office’s work was done at the request of communities. “We focus on all forms of extremism,” he said. Despite the controversy over the programs to counter extremism, Mohamed Elsanousi, the director of the Washington office of the Network for Religious and Traditional Peacemakers, said he welcomed Mr. Johnson’s speech and the government’s help. “We need to partner with the government to address the issues of radicalization,” he said. “We cannot fight this fight alone. ”