BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   Russian airstrikes helped the Syrian government and allied forces seize critical territory on the outskirts of the divided northern city of Aleppo on Monday, tightening a siege of   territory there as Russian and American officials joined meetings said to be aimed at hashing out access for humanitarian aid to the city. Intensifying battles raged across several fronts in Syria’s multisided war, signaling that the combatants were seeking to press their advantage on the ground either to bypass the talks or strengthen their position at the table. The siege of   parts of Aleppo had been   on Sunday. Islamic State militants claimed a series of bombings that killed at least 40 people in four cities across Syria on Monday  —   two cities held by the Syrian government and two held by Syrian Kurdish militias. The largest and most unusual attack was in Tartus, a coastal city that had been so calm that the Syrian Ministry of Tourism recently put out a promotional video showing its Mediterranean beaches. The attack in Tartus struck a checkpoint along a highway that runs from the coastal areas, where support for the government is strong, to the Syrian capital, Damascus, connecting a string of major cities that the government has made it a priority to control. An initial blast was followed a few minutes later by another, apparently an attempt to target rescue workers. Around the same time on Monday morning, blasts went off in a   area in the central city of Homs and in two cities, Qamishli and Hasakeh, in the   northeast. The bombs in the Kurdish areas were quickly claimed by the Islamic State’s media agency, Amaq. Those bombings occurred after major setbacks for the Islamic State, which on Sunday was pushed from its last footholds along the Turkish border by Turkish forces and Syrian rebels backed by Turkey and the United States. The changes have denied the Islamic State a key supply and transportation corridor while allowing Turkey to block the establishment of a Kurdish semiautonomous zone there. They have also given a lift to Syrian rebels eager to show they can help international efforts against the Islamic State. But the changes sent American officials scrambling to mend fences with the Syrian Kurdish militias, which also receive American assistance against the Islamic State. The State Department said Brett H. McGurk, the United States envoy to the region, had visited     forces in northern Syria recently and given assurances that American support was still strong. But he also issued a warning that the Kurds must abide by commitments to remain east of the Euphrates River. West of the river, Syrian rebels and their Turkish backers now control an area that Turkey has long coveted as a buffer zone, where displaced Syrians, protected from aerial bombing, could gather instead of flowing into Turkey. Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, declared Monday at the Group of 20 summit meeting in China that he had proposed to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President Obama that a   zone be established there. But similar requests by Turkey have been put off before. Diplomats played down the chances that Russia and the United States would agree even on a limited truce in Aleppo, let alone a more ambitious plan. In Lebanon on Monday, a Lebanese military court indicted two Syrian government intelligence officers accused of setting off twin bomb blasts at Sunni mosques in the northern Lebanese city of Tripoli in 2013. The ruling said the officers, identified by Lebanon’s National News Agency as Muhammad Ali Ali and Nasser Jubaan, had acted on orders from superiors in the Syrian security hierarchy.