Not long ago, Joanna Coles was having lunch with David Carey, the president of Hearst magazines, when he suggested she should take on a bigger role at the company. Ms. Coles had been the editor in chief of Cosmopolitan since 2012 and, she said in an interview, “I was definitely ready to do something else. ” “I love Cosmo, but I gave it everything I had,” she said. “I just didn’t have another sex position in me. ” On Tuesday, Hearst announced that Ms. Coles would leave her post at Cosmopolitan, one of the company’s marquee publications, to become Hearst’s first chief content officer. In her new role, Ms. Coles will work closely with Hearst editors and oversee the company’s magazines in the United States and internationally. She will also look to identify new business opportunities and partnerships for Hearst in areas including television and live events, with the goal of extending the company’s brands beyond just print magazines and websites. Michele Promaulayko, who worked at Cosmopolitan as executive editor from 2000 to 2008, will succeed Ms. Coles as the magazine’s editor in chief. Ms. Promaulayko was previously the editor in chief of Yahoo Health and has served as editor in chief of the magazine Women’s Health. Ms. Promaulayko will also become editorial director of Seventeen magazine. In an interview, Mr. Carey called the new role for Ms. Coles a “natural next step for our company and for Joanna. ” Hearst has formed many partnerships in recent years, but lately, he said, many companies who wanted to work with Hearst reached out to Ms. Coles first. “I’ve watched Joanna lead Cosmo,” Mr. Carey said, “and the whole time, I thought she could make an even bigger impact. ” Ms. Coles, 54, started working at Hearst in 2006 as editor in chief of Marie Claire, and she has raised her profile and that of the magazines under her leadership since then. With Marie Claire, she had a hand in a partnership between the magazine and the popular television show “Project Runway. ” At Cosmopolitan, where she took the reins four years ago, she has greatly extended the magazine’s reach, notably forging a partnership with Snapchat that both companies have viewed as a success. Cosmopolitan’s Snapchat channel draws six million visitors a day, according to Hearst. Ms. Coles calls herself a “brand steward,” and in many ways, she has become the public face of not only Cosmopolitan but Hearst itself. She frequently speaks at media conferences, has active Twitter and Instagram accounts and recently joined the board of Snapchat. On the television side, she is helping to produce the E! reality show about young Cosmopolitan employees (she will be in the show, but, she said, “I’ll be less in it than I was going to be”) and is involved in a scripted series for the   network Freeform, called “Issues,” that is inspired by her life. She is also writing a book about sex and intimacy in the digital age. Cosmopolitan under Ms. Coles has not lost its sizzle, and its pages are filled with the relationship advice and sex tips that have made it a popular guide for young women for decades. But it has also taken on heavier subjects, including women’s health and politics. The magazine reached roughly 34 million people in July across print, digital and video, according to the Magazine Media 360 Brand Audience. That was up from 29. 5 million at the end of 2014. Ms. Coles said she was leaving Cosmopolitan in a position of strength, but that she was “really excited to do a bigger job. ” Though she was   on her plans, she said she had two projects she has been working on with other Hearst brands, which will be announced soon.