Washington (CNN) Jill Stein’s bid to seek a vote recount in three key Rust Belt states is gaining steam as pressure builds among liberals to challenge the presidential election results. The Stein campaign said it needed to raise over $2 million by Friday to pay for recounts    a goal it quickly met. The fundrasing goal was then upped to $4. 5 million, which it also met. The current goal is $7 million. Stein, the Green Party nominee, and others are seeking an audit and recount of the November 8 voting results in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, following reports that voting security experts alerted Hillary Clinton’s campaign to the possibility of hacks in key counties in those states.  ”Over the last   hours, reports have come in from experts, cyber experts, who are reporting to us some very troubling news about the possibility of security breaches in voting results across this country,” Stein campaign manager David Cobb said in a video posted to Stein’s Facebook page Wednesday afternoon.   Donald Trump claimed Pennsylvania and Wisconsin    wins that helped push him comfortably over the threshold of 270 Electoral College votes needed for victory    while Michigan remains too close to call, more than two weeks after Election Day.  While the loss of those states played a large part in Clinton’s downfall, her lead in the popular vote has continued to grow. She now has close to 2 million more votes than Trump    and pressure has been mounting among liberals for an investigation into what happened on Election Day.  ”Demand an audit. Make the call,” filmmaker Joss Whedon tweeted late Tuesday, with a picture of Clinton reading ”She Won.”  It’s an ironic twist from just a month ago, when Trump was cautioning that the election results would be ”rigged” and that he may not accept the outcome. Stein, who ran as an independent,   candidate in 2012 and 2016, does not stand to benefit personally from the proposed recounts    she received only 1. 1% of the vote in Wisconsin and less than 1% in Pennsylvania. She launched her effort after computer scientists reportedly told Clinton campaign officials that the election may have indeed been rigged    in Trump’s favor.  However, her website said the recount attempt was ”not intended to help Hillary Clinton,” adding: ”These recounts are part of an election integrity movement to attempt to shine a light on just how untrustworthy the U. S. election system is.” The group of voting scientists    including University of Michigan’s J. Alex Halderman and voting rights activist John Bonifaz    alerted the campaign that Clinton’s tallies fell 7% shy of expectations in counties that used electronic voting machines. Clinton fell about 27, 000 votes shy of Trump in Wisconsin and 60, 000 in Pennsylvania      margins in both states, which together account for 30 Electoral College votes. Votes still are being tallied in Michigan, which CNN has not called for either candidate yet. However, famed political statistician Nate Silver was skeptical, tweeting that the voting patterns reportedly questioned by computer scientists ”are   by demographics    not hacking.” An analysis published on Silver’s FiveThirtyEight website said that the hacking claim ”doesn’t check out” statistically and that there was ”no clear evidence that the voting method used in a county    by machine or by paper    had an effect on the vote.” The Clinton campaign has yet to return requests for comment on the reports. Halderman did not return CNN’s calls for comment Wednesday and his voicemail was full when a reporter attempted to contact him.  ”A realistic attack on the election is probably going to be honing in on whichever state ends up having the closest margin,” Halderman said in an interview on   one month before the election.  Halderman is   in election security circles and gained some fame after he and his students at the University of Michigan successfully hacked Washington’s Board of Elections in 2010 during a trial run of its online voting system.  People who voted using the system were greeted with the University of Michigan’s fight song    placed there by Halderman’s students. The city council quickly scrapped plans for the system after that.