BRASÍLIA  —   At one heated moment in the impeachment trial of Dilma Rousseff, a powerful senator pushing for her ouster decided that some of his outspoken female colleagues in the chamber needed scolding. “Calm down, girls,” the senator, Cássio Cunha Lima, part of a political dynasty from northeastern Brazil, told Senators Vanessa Grazziotin and Gleisi Hoffmann, both supporters of Ms. Rousseff, Brazil’s first female president. His remark drew sharp rebukes from the two women. “Men believe they are the owners of this space, as if we’re just here by chance,” said Ms. Grazziotin, 55, a prominent leftist senator from Amazonas State. For senators like Ms. Grazziotin, the episode reflected the emboldening of conservative voices after the impeachment of Ms. Rousseff, who argued that she had been the target of misogynistic attacks by opponents. Female politicians across Brazil are debating what her downfall means in a political realm dominated by men. Despite the inroads made by Ms. Rousseff and others, Brazil ranks remarkably low in the representation of women in politics. Of the 513 members of the Chamber of Deputies, the lower house of the Brazilian Congress, 51 are women, placing the country 155th in the world in the percentage of women elected to the lower house of a national legislature, according to the   Union. It trails places like Saudi Arabia and Turkmenistan. The administration of Michel Temer, Ms. Rousseff’s successor  —   a former ally who emerged victorious in the power struggle to oust her  —   is doing little to assuage fears that women will be sidelined. Upon taking office more than three months ago, Mr. Temer named an   cabinet in a country where just 48 percent of the population of 206 million is male. Depicting a   suburban idyll in which a   president is greeted by his spouse, a much younger housewife, the cover of this month’s edition of the Brazilian magazine Piauí captured the cultural shift to the right embodied by Mr. Temer, 75, whose wife, Marcela, a   former beauty pageant contestant, is 42 years younger. Throughout the impeachment proceedings, female allies of Ms. Rousseff’s in Congress argued that the way her impeachment was carried out reflected a political establishment in which women were still supposed to serve as accessories to powerful men. A new wave of vitriolic positioning against female politicians like Ms. Rousseff is fueling these concerns. During the impeachment trial, for instance, Jaufran Siqueira, a socially conservative politician in the northeastern city of Natal, seized on a new idea for gaining votes. “This is what will happen to feminists when Jaufran is elected,” Mr. Siqueira, 25, proclaimed alongside a photograph he posted on his campaign’s Facebook page, showing a house engulfed in flames. “I can’t deny that I oppose the feminist movement,” said Mr. Siqueira, a real estate broker who emerged into the national spotlight with his campaign. “But it’s absurd to claim I’m going to set fire to women. ” He said the photo had been merely “a joke. ” Despite the increasing tensions, female political leaders in Brazil remain far from unanimous on whether Ms. Rousseff was driven from office because of her gender. Marina Silva, the former maid who is a leading contender for the 2018 presidential election, said in an interview that Ms. Rousseff’s ouster was rooted in incompetence and deeply flawed policy making, referring to charges that she manipulated the federal budget to conceal economic problems. “My understanding is that Dilma’s budget maneuvers were illegal,” said Ms. Silva, 58, an environmentalist, who repeatedly clashed with Ms. Rousseff when both were ministers in the cabinet of President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, of the leftist Workers’ Party. “Conservatives are getting more vociferous on a global level  —   just look at Trump in the United States,” said Ms. Silva, referring to Donald J. Trump, the Republican nominee for president, who, when asked if he had met Ms. Rousseff, responded: “No. Who is he?” “This doesn’t mean that women won’t play a crucial role in Brazilian politics after Dilma’s impeachment,” Ms. Silva said. “Of course we will. We have too much momentum now to stop us. ” As campaigning intensifies for municipal elections, other leaders at different points on Brazil’s ideological spectrum echoed such views. “I don’t see this moment as something that disappoints the aspirations of Brazilian women,” said Teresa Surita, a supporter of Ms. Rousseff’s ouster, who is running for   as the mayor of Boa Vista, a city in the Brazilian Amazon. Ms. Surita, 60, who has battled graft charges, said she remained committed to improving life in her city. A member of the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, the centrist party of Mr. Temer, she said that achieving her goals involved maintaining smooth ties with the federal government in the capital, Brasília. “I have to be aware of the need for support from the federal government, regardless of who is in power,” she said. While women hold only   of the seats in the lower house of Congress, a more complex picture may be emerging at the local level. For instance, 51 cities have only women running for mayor this year, according to the Superior Electoral Court, and women account for nearly 33 percent of the candidates for City Council seats this year. Women are also gaining positions of prominence in the judiciary. Cármen Lúcia Antunes Rocha, 62, a supporter of affirmative action, gay rights and fewer abortion restrictions, is rising this month to become the chief justice of Brazil. Still, others contend that Ms. Rousseff’s ouster revealed the ugly workings of Brazil’s   political scene. As large protests flare against Mr. Temer’s administration, especially on the streets of São Paulo, Brazil’s largest city, thousands of women are voicing opposition to the new government. “Temer took out Dilma because a man doesn’t like to answer to a woman, and as president, she was the one telling them what to do,” said Rayra Lima de Araújo, 14, a high school student who attended the antigovernment protests on Sunday with her mother, Maria da Cruz Lima, 43, an unemployed nurse. Taking the stand during her impeachment trial, Ms. Rousseff argued that her male counterparts did not have to contend with the same attacks on their character. “I’ve always been described as a   woman in the midst of delicate men,” she said. “I never saw a man accused of being   and we know that they are. ” But even Ms. Rousseff’s Workers’ Party, once one of Latin America’s most powerful political parties, is grappling with an internal debate over sexism as it tries to reinvent itself. Leaders in the party came under intense scrutiny this year after secret recordings revealed a range of explicitly sexist banter, including crude jokes by Mr. da Silva, the former president, about top female party members. Míriam Leitão, an economic historian and one of Brazil’s most influential columnists, said the Workers’ Party was using the debate over women in politics to try to discredit the impeachment process because it cost the party the presidency it had held for more than 13 years. “Dilma didn’t fall because she is a woman,” Ms. Leitão wrote in her column in the newspaper O Globo. “She produced a surge in inflation, a recession of historical significance, and lost her job. ”