Hey everybody! We  —   Wesley and Jenna  —   are introducing a new podcast today. It’s called Still Processing, and it’s a show about our promiscuous definition of “culture. ” We’re both writers at The New York Times, with very different focuses. Jenna is obsessed with Beyoncé, the evolution of the digital world and all things time travel. Wesley likes to think about the relationship among art, news and life in popular culture. The overlap of that Venn diagram is pretty much our show. We’ll be talking about the TV we’re watching, the movies we saw, the music we’ve heard, the books we’re reading tech etiquette, like how to slide into DMs and whether you should (quick answer: If you have to ask, as Wesley did, then no). We’ll get into the purpose  —   the real purpose  —   of Snapchat, the legacy of stars like Gene Wilder, the actual point of DJ Khaled (is there one?) and whether there ever was such a thing as good hair. But when tragedy strikes and the country threatens to go dark, we’re going to shine a light there, too. Anytime something like the Orlando shooting happens or Trump and Clinton start tussling about who’s a better friend to black voters, we’re going to talk about it. In our first episode  —   out today (!)  —   we discuss the flaps around Colin Kaepernick and Leslie Jones and unpack the repercussions of public patriotism and dissent. And because the two of us have a budding office romance, we decided to invite Tika Sumpter, who plays Michelle Obama in “Southside With You,” the romantic drama about Michelle and Barack’s first date, to talk about her worst first date. One thing we should note about our dip into the podcasting pool: We like the studio, but we love the world outside of it. We’re taking field trips to museums and restaurants and people’s houses. We’ll also invite on guests: the colleagues we admire at The New York Times, filmmakers, artists, writers, scientists, and regular people in our daily lives, like Jenna’s energy healer (no joke). We’ll debut new episodes of Still Processing on Thursdays, on all the usual places you find podcasts, including iTunes, Google Play Music, Stitcher and The New York Times itself. One more thing: We want to hear from you! You can find us on Twitter (@jennydeluxe @wesley_morris). We also set up a hotline for comments and questions at    but just know that if you leave us a voice mail message, we might have to play it on the show. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “Still Processing” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for “Still Processing” and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.