(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. North Korea conducted its fifth and most powerful underground nuclear test, demonstrating that the U. S. policy of “strategic patience” had failed to deter the North Korean leader, Kim  . President Obama said, “The United States does not, and never will, accept North Korea as a nuclear state. ” But some experts say the U. S. has little choice. _____ 2. Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump both responded to the nuclear test. Mrs. Clinton, who met with national security advisers, said it was time to expand sanctions and broaden a   program in neighboring countries. Mr. Trump sought to connect the test to Mrs. Clinton, saying: “It’s just one more massive failure from a failed secretary of state. Failed at everything. ” Mr. Trump also spoke to the Values Voters Summit in Washington, one of the largest audiences of social conservatives he’s addressed. He steered clear of divisive topics like abortion and Israel. Bill Clinton has begun vigorously defending himself and the Clinton Foundation, rankled by the increasing scrutiny of his marquee focus since leaving the presidency. “If creating jobs and saving lives is bad,” he said this week, “I guess you can zing me with it. ” _____ 3. Our analysis of new national data shows that murder rates rose last year in 25 of the country’s 100 largest cities. But half of the increase came from just seven cities: Chicago, Baltimore, Cleveland, Houston, Milwaukee, Nashville and Washington. Each appears to have unique circumstances contributing to the uptick. But even in those cities, murder rates remain much lower than they were in the ’90s, as they are across the country. _____ 4. Ambitious? New evidence shows that, these days, if you’re aiming to get a job as a top executive, it pays to get experience in as many of a business’s functional areas as possible. “Work used to be much more hierarchical, and in many instances rote,” one expert said. Now, he said, it’s “become incredibly  . ” _____ 5. A federal ruling cleared the way for the Dakota Access oil pipeline to be laid near a Native American reservation in North Dakota, disappointing hundreds of tribal members and environmental activists protesting the project. But the Justice and Interior Departments and the Army released a statement almost immediately, saying the pipeline would not for the moment be allowed to be built under a dammed section of the Missouri River, the focal point of the protest. _____ 6. Two days before the 15th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the House gave final congressional approval to a measure that would allow families of those killed to sue Saudi Arabia. President Obama is expected to veto the bill, to avert moves by other countries to allow individuals to file suit against the U. S. Above, Congress memorialized the attacks. About half a dozen    novels aimed at young readers have come out this year, trying to fill in the gaps for readers with no memory of the events. “Writers are feeling safer about writing about the subject, and also realizing, wait a minute, kids don’t know,” one publisher said. _____ 7. Overwhelmed police radios. Officers stepping over dead, wounded and dying people, desperate to find the attackers. A report containing the first official account of the aftermath of the Dec. 2 terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif. details chaos, some missteps and moments of heroism. All the wounded were evacuated to hospitals within 57 minutes of the first 911 call  —   and all survived. _____ 8. In theaters: “Sully,” which recreates Capt. Chesley Sullenberger’s miraculous landing of a plane in the Hudson River in 2009. Our reviewer finds the film unlike other Clint Eastwood films: “There’s no tragedy in ‘Sully,’ just sighs of relief, probing questions and an outwardly uncomplicated hero whose extraordinariness is so deeply imbued that it is finally the most ordinary thing about him. ” The reviews from investigators for the National Transportation Safety Board, who are portrayed as testy and    —   a technique to increase the film’s drama  —   have been less enthusiastic. _____ 9. In tennis, Novak Djokovic, above, defeated Gael Monfils, and Stan Wawrinka beat Kei Nishikori, earning a place in his first U. S. Open final. Djokovic and Wawrinka play Sunday afternoon. The women’s singles title will be decided Saturday, as Angelique Kerber faces Karolina Pliskova. Here’s our full coverage of the tournament. The N. F. L. ’s first   weekend is packed. There are 13 games on Sunday. Here’s our look at the top games  —   and who we think will win. _____ 10. Finally, a new space mission is underway. NASA’s   spacecraft was put into orbit around Earth by a rocket on Thursday, and then fired its engines to push it onto a path around the sun. In seven years, if all goes well, it will return with samples from a   asteroid that could hold clues to the solar system’s roots. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.