 (CNN) Good Tuesday morning. All the stories below are 100% true. (It’s sad that we’ve reached a point where we even have to add such a disclaimer.) Here’s what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door. 1. Michael Slager trial, We debated leading with that image because some of you will find it disturbing. And you should. It shows   Carolina cop Michael Slager shooting an unarmed, fleeing man   Walter Scott   in the back, from 18 feet away    on video. A judge declared a mistrial after at least one juror said he wouldn’t vote to convict Slager and he wasn’t changing his mind.  2. Oakland fire, They were musicians and singers, students and artists.  And they were all really young. We’re learning more about the people who perished in the Ghost Ship fire in Oakland. One traveled to the warehouse to perform. Another was an elementary school teacher. One was just 17.  3. Fake news, Fake news has real consequences. You’ve heard about the D. C. pizzeria where an armed man walked in to ”investigate” the   story about the Clinton campaign and a child sex ring. Four other businesses have also been targeted. Over in Italy, half of the most popular stories related to the weekend’s failed referendum were fake. Here’s how to spot them and outsmart them.  4. Syria civil war, Russia and China teamed up to veto a resolution for a   ceasefire in Aleppo. The Russians said it wasn’t the right time for a vote since talks it’s having with the US are making progress. A US official called that line a bunch of bull. Meanwhile, a    Aleppo girl who captured the world’s attention with her tweets posted a goodbye, saying ’Pray for us.’ 5. Bill Cosby, It was the deposition that completely turned public opinion against him, and now it will be used against him in court. Bill Cosby’s admission that he had affairs and gave women drugs so they’d have sex with him is admissible, a judge ruled.   BREAKFAST BROWSE, People are talking about these. Read up. Join in. Going, going, gone, This pic says it all. The populist wave is washing away the jobs and legacies of the leaders in it. Only one    Germany’s Angela Merkel    remains.   Joe 2020? Veep Joe Biden cracked the door open    ever so slighting    to a 2020 presidential run while joking around with reporters during a trip to the Senate. Last laugh, The bad internet mocked a cleaner in Saudi Arabia for looking at jewelry. The good internet rallied behind him and showered him with gifts. Otherwise, they’re just like us, You don’t need it, but here you go. Another way the   are different than the rest of us    on average they own nine homes and 19 cars. Just in time for Christmas, At Amazon’s new    store in Seattle, you don’t have to stand in the checkout line, because there’s an app for that. AND FINALLY . .. How to grocery shop with a baby, Step one, just accept that things will go sideways fairly quickly. (Click to view)