Hong Kong  (CNN) A cheer went up from the crowd as the bottles of champagne were popped.  Outside Hong Kong’s Government House, protesters handed out plastic cups of wine as they chanted slogans celebrating the downfall of the city’s top official, a rare moment of celebration for the beleaguered   movement.  On Friday, Chief Executive Leung   announced he will not seek   citing family reasons.  His removal was a key demand of the 2014 Umbrella Movement mass demonstrations and many protests since, and there was a mood of jubilation Saturday as demonstrators gathered in the city’s business district for an   rally.  ’CY did not beat us’ Longtime   lawmaker ”Longhair” Leung   told CNN on Saturday he was happy to see the back of CY Leung, as the chief executive is known, but said ”his legacy will continue,” as several of his key allies are being mulled as potential successors.  ”It’s not a victory, but CY did not beat us,” he said.  ”Longhair” Leung   is one of four   lawmakers facing disqualification after the government filed lawsuits this month challenging the validity of their oaths of office.  That move came in the wake of the expulsion of two   lawmakers from the city’s parliament over protests they staged during the   ceremony in October.  Unconcerned about his own fate, the lawmaker said if he were removed ”young blood will emerge” to take his place.  Worries about possible successor, Lawmaker Lau   who took part in the Umbrella Movement, said Leung’s decision not to seek   was a vindication of the protests.  ”It shows our will, and power to turn the will of Beijing,” she said, but voiced concern the   movement would find itself with an even less desirable chief executive, Regina Ip.  ”We are very worried,” Lau said. ”She is more dangerous than CY Leung.” Ip, one of the few candidates to have already declared her intentions to run in the March election, is a former security secretary who stepped down in 2003 after mass protests against a proposed   law.  Since then, however, she has staged a remarkable political comeback. In this year’s parliamentary elections, she received the   amount of votes of any candidate.  She told CNN earlier this year that a ”popularly elected leader, who can act as a consensus politician” could help mend the polarizing divides that exist between the   and   political camps. Optimism for ’more universal suffrage’ Popular elections are a long way off, however. In March, a   election committee will choose Hong Kong’s next leader from a handful of candidates.  The replacement of this system with a free vote and nomination process was the primary demand of the Umbrella Movement. In the wake of the protests, a limited reform platform put forward by the central government in Beijing was defeated in the Hong Kong parliament.  But lawmaker Edward Yiu said Saturday there was a rare opportunity next year for the   minority on the election committee to play kingmaker in a split vote between two   candidates.  ”I am quite optimistic,” he said. ”We could (then) fight for more universal suffrage in the coming term.” 