With less than eight weeks until Election Day and pressure mounting for the candidates to give details about their health and medical histories, Donald J. Trump acknowledged on Wednesday that he was overweight and taking a   drug, and Hillary Clinton elaborated on the circumstances that led to her contracting pneumonia and the medicine she was taking to recover. Mrs. Clinton’s doctor said she “continues to improve” after contracting a “mild, noncontagious” form of pneumonia diagnosed on Friday, two days before she grew dizzy and was seen losing her footing while leaving a ceremony for the 15th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. In a letter released by the Clinton campaign, the physician, Dr. Lisa R. Bardack, said she had evaluated Mrs. Clinton several times since Sunday, including on Wednesday. “She is recovering well with antibiotics and rest,” Dr. Bardack said. “She continues to remain healthy and fit to serve as president of the United States. ” After Mrs. Clinton left Sunday’s Sept. 11 ceremony early, a spokesman initially said only that she had felt overheated. But after video shot by an onlooker showed Secret Service agents helping a wobbly Mrs. Clinton into a van, her campaign released a statement from Dr. Bardack saying that Mrs. Clinton had pneumonia. Since then, Mr. Trump’s campaign has urged supporters to refrain from talking about Mrs. Clinton’s health, a frequent topic of speculation among some Republicans before her pneumonia diagnosis. But at a rally in Ohio on Wednesday night, Mr. Trump said he hoped Mrs. Clinton was improving but added that she was “lying in bed. ” He also noted his ability to keep standing in an overheated room. “I don’t know, folks,” he said. “Do you think Hillary would be able to stand up here for an hour?” Despite fanning conspiracy theories about Mrs. Clinton’s health, Mr. Trump provided scant information about his own. On Wednesday, he taped an appearance on Dr. Mehmet Oz’s daytime television show in which he discussed his health to some degree, including the results of a physical last week, according to people present for the taping and a clip released by the show’s publicists. But little information was available about what was said on the show, which will be broadcast on Thursday, other than that Mr. Trump, 70, said he was taking regular doses of a statin, a drug that lowers cholesterol, and gave his weight as 236 pounds. At about    Mr. Trump would have a body mass index of 30. 3. The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute defines obesity as a B. M. I. of 30 or more, and overweight as 25 to 29. 9. NBC News reported that Dr. Oz pronounced Mr. Trump “slightly overweight. ” Democrats have seized on Mr. Trump’s weight this week, with Harry Reid, the Senate minority leader, noting Tuesday that he was hardly “slim and trim,” and David Plouffe, a former senior adviser to President Obama, suggesting on Twitter that he would rival William Howard Taft in portliness. Mr. Trump has yet to make public as much personal medical information as Mrs. Clinton has. Earlier this week, he said he would soon release new medical records, and he was expected to discuss the results of his physical on Dr. Oz’s show. During the taping, he theatrically produced what he described as the results and allowed Dr. Oz to review them, according to the brief clip released. Until this week, the latest medical information about Mr. Trump had come in December in a letter from his longtime physician, Dr. Harold Bornstein, which included a few numbers  —   Mr. Trump’s blood pressure and PSA test score  —   and little else aside from superlatives and boasts. The letter also said that Mr. Trump had lost 15 pounds over the previous year, though it did not give his weight before or after. In the letter released by the Clinton campaign, Dr. Bardack said that she had examined Mrs. Clinton, 68, on Friday for a prolonged,   cough, discovered “small right   pneumonia,” put her on antibiotics and advised her “to rest and modify her schedule. ” At the Sept. 11 ceremony, she said, Mrs. Clinton “became overheated and dehydrated,” but was “rehydrated and recovering nicely” later that day. Criticized for concealing Mrs. Clinton’s illness, her aides apologized on Monday and promised to release more information about her medical history. Mrs. Clinton canceled trips to California and Nevada this week to rest, but she planned to return to the campaign trail on Thursday. Dr. Bardack’s letter also cast some new light on the persistent cough that Mrs. Clinton complained of before she was found to have pneumonia. Dr. Bardack said she had examined Mrs. Clinton on Sept. 2, a week before the pneumonia diagnosis, after Mrs. Clinton experienced a   fever, congestion and fatigue. She prescribed antibiotics and rest, but Mrs. Clinton continued to travel, and over several days, “her congestion worsened and she developed a cough,” Dr. Bardack wrote. That Monday, Mrs. Clinton had an extended coughing attack while trying to deliver a Labor Day speech in Cleveland. The details released Wednesday included that Mrs. Clinton has been taking the antibiotic Levaquin, “as well as   as needed. ” Dr. William Schaffner, a professor of infectious diseases at Vanderbilt University, said that the information suggested Mrs. Clinton may have had the pneumonia for a longer period, and that she needed a   examination and   to make sure it was responding well to the antibiotics. Dr. Bardack wrote that “the remainder of her complete physical exam was normal, and she is in excellent mental condition. ” Her letter did not include Mrs. Clinton’s height or weight. It did note, however, that in January, Mrs. Clinton developed a sinus and ear infection that caused “progressive pain in her left ear. ” She was treated with antibiotics as well as the placement of a myringotomy tube in her ear, and her symptoms resolved by March. Before Sunday, Dr. Bardack’s last public comment about Mrs. Clinton’s health had come in a   letter in July 2015 describing her as a “healthy female with hypothyroidism and seasonal allergies” who was in “excellent physical condition. ” Mrs. Clinton has expressed frustration with what she says is a double standard, in which she is expected to adhere to traditional levels of transparency but Mr. Trump is not penalized for ignoring them. She has quickly shifted from questions about her medical records to criticizing Mr. Trump for not releasing his tax returns. “It’s really past time for him to be held to the same standards,” she told CNN on Monday night. Mrs. Clinton’s running mate, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, also released a doctor’s letter Wednesday, saying he was in excellent health and worked out three times a week. Dr. Brian Monahan, the attending physician to Congress, said Mr. Kaine’s cholesterol and blood lipids were elevated, but made no mention of a statin drug. The upper chamber of the left side of Mr. Kaine’s heart is enlarged, but Dr. Monahan noted nothing else unusual about his heart or major arteries. Mrs. Clinton’s disclosures may help her campaign bat down rumors about her health that have been driven by conservative news outlets with Mr. Trump’s encouragement. After her coughing fit in Cleveland, Mrs. Clinton casually told reporters on her campaign plane that she was taking more antihistamines. “It happens like twice a year, in the spring when the pollen comes, and it happens in the fall,” she said. “It lasts a couple days, and then it disappears. ” “There is a long video recording that someone is compiling right now, going back decades,” she added jokingly. Mrs. Clinton has tried to bounce back quickly from medical issues in the past. In 2009, she slipped in a State Department garage and fractured her elbow, but traveled to India and Thailand a few days later with her arm in a sling and her joint held together with wire and pins. She took longer to recover after dehydration brought on by a stomach virus led her to faint and hit her head on a toilet at her home in 2012. She sustained a concussion and was later found to have a blood clot in her head. Among the things she had to delay was an appearance before Congress to testify about the Sept. 11, 2012, attack in Benghazi, Libya. The timing led to widespread speculation by Republicans, who accused Mrs. Clinton of faking an illness. One Fox News contributor called it an “acute Benghazi allergy. ” Some have expressed concern about a similar politicizing of Mrs. Clinton’s current diagnosis. “They’re hitting each other on the heads with stethoscopes to try to earn points,” said Arthur L. Caplan, a professor of medical ethics at New York University. But Dr. Caplan said both candidates needed additional scrutiny, given their ages. “You’ve got older candidates, so you’re going to see health problems and risks detected in both of them,” he said. “Seventy is still the new 70. ”