The Atlantic Coast Conference announced Wednesday that it would move   championships for this academic year, including its football title game in December and its women’s basketball tournament in March, out of North Carolina in reaction to a state law that curbed   protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. The decision came two days after the N. C. A. A. announced that it would move championship games for the coming year, including six in the Division I men’s basketball tournament, touching off contentious debate between opponents of the law, who praised the N. C. A. A. for taking a stand, and supporters of the law, who said the association was inappropriately inserting itself into politics. “The A. C. C. Council of Presidents made it clear that the core values of this league are of the utmost importance and the opposition to any form of discrimination is paramount,” Commissioner John Swofford said in a statement. “Today’s decision is one of principle. ” The A. C. C. ’s action was not only another blow to the state, but one sure to hit home in every sense: Four of the conference’s 15 members are in the state, and the conference has its headquarters in Greensboro. “When you’re talking about native North Carolinians, and particularly those of us who grew up in the A. C. C. this is a pretty powerful statement against the birthplace of that conference,” said J. Michael Bitzer, a political science professor at Catawba College in Salisbury, N. C. The law, commonly referred to as House Bill 2 or H. B. 2, nullified local government ordinances establishing   protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, and requires people in publicly owned buildings to use restrooms that correspond with the genders listed on their birth certificates. The statute is the subject of federal lawsuits. James P. Clements, the president of Clemson, said: “The decision to move the   championships out of North Carolina while H. B. 2 remains the law was not an easy one, but it is consistent with the shared values of inclusion and nondiscrimination at all of our institutions. ” In recent days, athletic directors at North Carolina’s four A. C. C. member universities  —   the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill North Carolina State Duke and Wake Forest  —   issued statements expressing concern about the law or its effects. In a joint statement, the chancellors of U. N. C. and North Carolina State, Carol L. Folt and Randy Woodson, said Wednesday: “We appreciate the Council of Presidents’ reaffirmation of the A. C. C. ’s strong commitment to diversity and inclusion,” adding, “However, we regret today’s decision will negatively affect many North Carolinians, especially in the affected host communities. ” Hours after the A. C. C. announced its move, Gov. Pat McCrory, who is seeking   this fall, used a statement to repeat, verbatim, 67 of the words he used Tuesday to comment about the N. C. A. A.’s decision. Mr. McCrory, on Tuesday and Wednesday, said he encouraged “all public and private institutions to both respect and allow our nation’s judicial system to proceed without economic threats or political retaliation. ” Mr. McCrory did not specifically criticize the A. C. C. but this week, he described the N. C. A. A. as “a     monopoly” that had not demonstrated respect for  . The speaker of the North Carolina House of Representatives, Tim Moore, said the decisions by the N. C. A. A. and the A. C. C. were “very unfortunate. ” “No one ever wants to lose events under any circumstances, but these organizations are certainly entitled to host their events wherever they choose,” Mr. Moore, a Republican who supports H. B. 2, said. “The truth remains that this law was never about and does not promote discrimination. ” Mr. McCrory’s Democratic rival, Roy Cooper, the state’s attorney general, said in a video released Wednesday that the governor had shown “no leadership. ” “This is not just about sports,” Mr. Cooper said. “This is about communities in North Carolina suffering real economic blows. ” The conference, which said it would announce future sites, has just a few weeks to relocate its first affected championship, for women’s soccer, which had been scheduled to take place in Cary beginning Oct. 30, and less than three months to find a new venue for its marquee event, the football championship game, scheduled for Bank of America Stadium in Charlotte on Dec. 3. Six other championships featuring sports like men’s and women’s swimming and diving, men’s golf and baseball are scheduled to be held at   venues. The men’s A. C. C. basketball tournament, frequently held in the state, was already set to be staged at Barclays Center in Brooklyn. Some championships hosted by specific universities will not be affected, like the men’s and women’s   championships at North Carolina State. Beyond those championships and   A. C. C. games, the other major college sports event set to take place in the state is the Belk Bowl, which will pit an A. C. C. football team against one from the Southeastern Conference on Dec. 29 in Charlotte. The Charlotte Sports Foundation, which hosts the Belk Bowl and the A. C. C. football championship, said in a statement Wednesday that it was “disappointed” that the football title game was moving, adding, “We recognize the economic impact moving the game and its events have on the Charlotte area. ” Frank Kay, a spokesman for the host organization, said there were no talks about relocating the Belk Bowl. Mr. Swofford had presaged the A. C. C. ’s decision in a statement late Monday night, saying that the N. C. A. A.’s action “continues to build upon the negative impact” the law “has already had on the state” and adding that he personally felt the law should “be repealed as it’s counter to basic human rights. ” Charlotte, which is North Carolina’s largest city and which Mr. McCrory governed as mayor for 14 years, has been especially hard hit by the fallout from the law. In addition to the A. C. C. title game, the National Basketball Association’s 2017   Game was withdrawn from the city this summer in reaction to the law. Charlotte’s municipal efforts to strengthen legal protections for transgender people were part of what prodded the General Assembly to pass H. B. 2. “The cancellation of the 2016 A. C. C. football championship is a blow to Charlotte’s visitor economy and is irreplaceable at this late date,” said Tom Murray, the chief executive of the Charlotte Regional Visitors’ Authority, which estimated that the A. C. C. ’s 2015 football title game had an economic impact of more than $32 million. But the mounting economic toll spreads far beyond Charlotte, ensnaring cities like Greensboro and Cary, which is just outside Raleigh and had been scheduled to host N. C. A. A. championships in baseball, lacrosse, tennis and soccer. Mayor Nancy Vaughan of Greensboro, whose father was a longtime A. C. C. official, said in an interview Tuesday, “We are in the process right now of bidding games and tournaments for the next four years, so we are really looking at the possibility of a   drought. ” Scott Dupree, the executive director of the Greater Raleigh Sports Alliance, said that for sports events in North Carolina, this week has been “unprecedented and historically bad, probably the worst ever in terms of lost business and damage to our brand. ”