JERUSALEM  —   Shimon Peres, the Israeli former prime minister and president who shared a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to resolve the   conflict with the Palestinians, remained hospitalized on Wednesday after suffering what his doctor called a “massive stroke. ” Mr. Peres, 93, was sedated and put on a respirator on Tuesday when he was brought to the Israeli hospital, where he suffered the stroke after complaining of a headache. After an   vigil in the hospital, with expressions of sympathy pouring in from around the world, his doctor said Wednesday morning that Mr. Peres was in critical but stable condition and was not in immediate danger of death, although his chances of recovery remained uncertain. “It’s very emotional, as you can imagine,” the doctor, Rafi Walden, who is also Mr. Peres’s    told reporters on a conference call. “We are very close to him, and obviously we are very moved and touched by his condition, but also very moved by the reaction of the public. ” Dr. Walden said that there was no “imminent threat to his life” and that “the chances of survival are pretty good. ” But he added, “the degree of his neurological recovery, nobody can say at this early stage of the disease. ” After discussions about surgery, that option has been ruled out for now. When doctors eased the sedation temporarily, Mr. Peres was responsive, squeezing Dr. Walden’s hand at his direction. Doctors put Mr. Peres back to sleep to give his brain a chance to recover, and they will transfer him to the neurosurgical intensive care unit at Chaim Sheba Medical Center at Tel HaShomer, but they will allow the sedation to wear off again briefly on Wednesday afternoon to test his reactions. “This is a difficult time for the family, obviously, but Mr. Peres is not only a great leader but a great teacher of optimism,” Dr. Walden said. “We are trying to adopt the optimism he taught us all those years. ” Mr. Peres, one of the last living founders of the modern state of Israel, served in most senior major government positions and played a central role through much of the country’s history as both warrior and peacemaker. He remains an influential figure in Israel and abroad, maintaining an active schedule through the Peres Center for Peace, a nonprofit organization that promotes reconciliation, tolerance and innovation. Word of his latest health problems prompted expressions of concern in Israel. “I wish former president Shimon Peres a speedy recovery,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wrote on Twitter. “Shimon, we love you and the entire people wish for you recovery. ” The prime minister’s office said in a separate statement that Mr. Netanyahu had spoken with the hospital director to check on Mr. Peres’s condition. Mr. Peres was among the leaders who helped found Israel in 1948 and steered it through a rocky beginning in a hostile region. He served in the   military organization known as Haganah and worked for David   the first prime minister of Israel. He was an important player in developing Israel’s military, including its nuclear program, and he served in multiple governments as defense minister and foreign minister. He served as prime minister twice, from 1984 to 1986, and after the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin in 1995. He shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Mr. Rabin and Yasir Arafat, the leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the Oslo accords that were first signed in 1993. Mr. Peres became ill on the 23rd anniversary of the ceremony hosted by President Bill Clinton on the South Lawn of the White House. Mr. Peres later served as president of Israel, a more ceremonial post, from 2007 to 2014. Mr. Peres suffered a small heart attack this year and had a pacemaker implanted a week ago to deal with an irregular heart beat. He was working as usual on Tuesday, filming a video urging Israelis to buy Israeli products. “Not only because it is more patriotic, but because it is simply better,” he said on Facebook. “Can you imagine a meal without an Israeli salad? Can you set your table without Israeli fruit on it?” Dr. Walden said Mr. Peres had given an hourlong speech on Tuesday but had complained afterward of “a vague headache” and was brought to the hospital. After arriving, he suffered what the doctor called “a massive stroke” on the right side of his brain.