 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • Congress focuses on health care. Debate begins today on legislation to dismantle major parts of the Affordable Care Act. President Obama is scheduled to meet with Democrats about resisting efforts to repeal the law, while Vice   Mike Pence will meet with lawmakers from his party to gird them for a fight. • Rough first day back. Republican lawmakers abandoned on Monday a move to eliminate an ethics office after rebukes from constituents and from   Donald J. Trump. Our writer says Mr. Trump’s intervention raises “alarms among Republicans about his power to corral them via social media. ” • Trump on trade. The  ’s pick for trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, is a longtime advocate of protectionist policies, a choice in line with Mr. Trump’s focus on making products in America. That effort has made some Republicans uneasy, but some Democrats are ready to support it. Earlier on Tuesday, Mr. Trump criticized General Motors for making cars in Mexico. Hours later, Ford said it would expand production at a Michigan factory and would drop plans for a new plant in Mexico. • Getting ready for legal fights.  Democratic leaders of the California Legislature have hired the former U. S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to represent them in any legal fights against the White House. The state is preparing for battles on issues including the environment, immigration and criminal justice. • Latest in Istanbul attack. Turkish officials say they know who killed at least 39 people in an assault on a nightclub last weekend, although they did not release his name. A video appears to show the suspect recording himself as he walked through the city. • Challenges ahead for Netanyahu. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel has been “the ultimate survivor” in a political system that destroyed many of his predecessors, our writers say, but the current graft inquiry could be different. The political turmoil comes as an Israeli soldier was found guilty of manslaughter today for shooting a wounded Palestinian attacker. The country has been highly divided over the case. • Rethinking death. One of our most popular stories this week is about Dr. B. J. Miller, who became a triple amputee after a horrific accident in college. He’s on a quest to change the way we die, and he pioneered a model of palliative care that aims to view death as a human experience, not just a medical one. • Megyn Kelly’s move to NBC from Fox News heralds a major shift in the cable news landscape, and it will give her a daytime show as well as a Sunday newsmagazine. Some industry executives outlined the challenges Ms. Kelly will face in those formats. • India has become a major center for cyberfraud, as a result of an abundance of young workers skilled in computers and English. A recent scheme targeting Indian immigrants in the U. S. came to light when two teenage workers blew the whistle. • The price of Bitcoin is soaring, thanks in part to a tilt toward isolationism in the U. S. and Europe, and to trading by Chinese speculators. The virtual currency is worth about $1, 025, or 140 percent more than a year ago. • U. S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Welcome to Hell   …     Hell, Mich. Our 360 video follows John Colone, the unofficial mayor of the town, which has a population of 72. • New to read. We review Aravind Adiga’s new novel, “Selection Day,” about religion and cricket. Mr. Adiga “supplies further proof that his Booker Prize, won for ‘The White Tiger’ in 2008, was no fluke,” our critic writes. Also, we look at Roxane Gay’s new collection of short stories, “Difficult Women. ” • Alternate theory about the Titanic. An Irish journalist who spent 30 years investigating the famous sinking says he found evidence that a coal fire in the ship’s hull weeks before it set sail played a role in the tragedy. “It’s a perfect storm of extraordinary factors coming together: fire, ice and criminal negligence,” he said. • Recipe of the day. If you’re going meatless to start the new year, try this spinach lasagna. While it bakes, read about Ruby Tandoh, the popular British cookbook author who urges us simply to eat what we love. This month, Melania Trump  —   born Melanija Knavs in Slovenia  —   will become the second first lady to have been born outside the U. S. Louisa Adams, the wife of John Quincy Adams (president from 1825 to 1829) was the first. She was born in London in 1775. Her mother was English, her father the American consul. Their home became an essential stop for American visitors, including the future president, who met Louisa in 1795 and married her in 1797. Louisa arrived in the U. S. in 1801, when President John Adams brought his diplomat son home for a time. Wherever the couple was posted, her engaging personality stood out. Louisa dazzled imperial courts overseas, and her soirees were the heart of Washington’s social life when her husband was secretary of state, proving to be crucial to his ascension to the presidency. The question of her “Americanness” became an issue during his tumultuous term in office. Her efforts to defend herself only drew more attention to her background. Louisa continued to be a political partner to her husband as he served in Congress after leaving the White House, supporting his antislavery efforts. When she died in 1852, both Houses adjourned. A Washington publication wrote that hers was one of the “longest funeral processions ever witnessed in this city. ” Adeel Hassan contributed reporting. _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning. What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes. com. You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.