HONG KONG  —   Almost three years after Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared with 239 people on board, officials said on Tuesday that they had called off the underwater search for the plane, ensuring that one of the great aviation mysteries will remain unsolved for the foreseeable future. The decision, which had been expected, indefinitely suspends an intensive   search in the southern Indian Ocean for remnants of the plane, a Boeing 777. The underwater search turned up no traces of the aircraft, although pieces of debris were found as far away as Tanzania. Flight 370 disappeared on the way from Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, to Beijing on March 8, 2014, prompting the largest and costliest search in aviation history. Investigators determined that the plane veered off course and flew south for several hours, for reasons that remain unknown. “Today the last search vessel has left the underwater search area,” the governments of Australia, China and Malaysia, the three countries that oversaw the search, said in a joint statement on Tuesday. “Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has not been located in the    underwater search area in the southern Indian Ocean,” a zone of more than 46, 000 square miles. “Despite every effort using the best science available,   technology, as well as modeling and advice from highly skilled professionals who are the best in their field, unfortunately, the search has not been able to locate the aircraft,” the statement said. “Accordingly, the underwater search for MH370 has been suspended. ” At a news conference in Sydney on Wednesday, Australia’s prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, said, “We grieve with the families of the victims and we share their deep disappointment that the plane has not been found. ” “There has been a massive search. It is an unprecedented search,” Mr. Turnbull added. “It has been conducted with the best advice over the areas that were identified as the most likely to find the location of the airplane. ” The decision drew sharp rebukes from relatives of the missing. “It is incomprehensible that they would give up right now,” a sobbing Grace Nathan, 28, whose mother, Anne Daisy, was on the flight, said in a telephone interview from Kuala Lumpur. “I can’t imagine living the rest of my life accepting that people just disappeared into thin air. ” Investigators have several theories about what happened. They believe that the plane ran out of fuel, and one theory holds that the pilots tried to make an emergency landing at sea. It has also been suggested that one or both pilots lost control of the aircraft, that one was a rogue pilot, or that the plane was hijacked. What investigators do know from radar and satellite communications data is that the plane made several turns, then flew south for five hours. That information led them to concentrate the search along a   arc from which the plane most likely sent its last signal. The first phase of the search, lasting 52 days, was conducted from the air, covering 1. 7 million square miles and involving 334 search flights. Australia, China and Malaysia have said since July that the search would end if the plane were not found. China is involved because 153 of the passengers on the plane were Chinese. In December, investigators said they may have been looking too far south and recommended expanding the search zone. But the Australian government said that without more credible evidence on a specific location, the search, which cost a total of $150 million, would be called off this month. “We remain hopeful that new information will come to light and that at some point in the future the aircraft will be located,” the statement on Tuesday said. About 20 pieces of debris believed to be from the missing jet have been recovered, including a wing part, known as a flaperon, that was found on Réunion Island, east of Madagascar, in July 2015. That location, combined with analysis of ocean currents, supported the theory that the plane had crashed in the southern Indian Ocean. The end of the search appeared to dash the last hopes of victims’ relatives. “There have been so many similar incidents and people were always able to find something,” said Liu Jiani, whose grandparents, Chinese citizens, were on the plane. “Why has nothing been found?”