 (CNN) Seattle and New England are going nuts over their Super Bowl teams, an ice storm is wreaking havoc on the Northeast, and 1% of the world’s population is far more loaded than you can imagine.  It’s Monday, and here are the ”5 Things to Know for Your New Day.” SUPER BOWL XLIX, Showdown in Glendale: So the Seattle Seahawks are getting greedy for more Super Bowl rings. The defending champs will take on the New England Patriots and their formidable   duo of Bill Belichick and Tom Brady. Watch the teams duke it out February 1 in Super Bowl XLIX. (Or if you just want to see Katy Perry and some outrageously expensive ads, you can do that, too.)  WEATHER, Deadly accumulation: After freezing rain and snow covered roads across the Northeast, leaving five dead, more misery awaits Monday. Winter storm warnings are in effect for parts of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Vermont, which could get pummeled with 3 to 7 inches of snow    or 10 inches in the higher elevations.  STATE OF THE UNION, More taxes, less taxes: We’ve got a head’s up on what President Obama is going to say in his State of the Union speech Tuesday night. He wants to increase taxes for the wealthy to help pay for new programs designed to boost the middle class, such as offering two free years of community college to qualified students. And he also wants $500 tax credit for married couples who each hold jobs. Now, can he get that past the   Congress?  EUROPE TERRORISM THREAT, How far will it spread? Investigators across Europe are scrambling to stop the spread of terrorism and threats after the deadly Paris attacks. Belgium has arrested five of its nationals, and Greece has also made arrests as investigators try to sniff out terror cells.  UBER WEALTHY, Huge slice of the pie:  The wealthiest 1% of the world isn’t just freakishly loaded soon, they’re going to have more than the rest of us combined. ”The richest 1% have seen their share of global wealth increase from 44% in 2009 to 48% in 2014,” Oxfam says. At that rate, the wealthiest will own more than 50% by next year.