 (CNN) The President says we’re on the right track the Republicans say au contraire.  And DeflateGate takes flight in the NFL. It’s Wednesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day, STATE OF THE UNION, Six years in: President Obama touted a rebounding economy, laid out an agenda aimed at helping the middle class and appealed to Republicans to work across the aisle in his State of the Union address last night.  He said the ”verdict is clear” that his brand of ”middle class economics” works, and he promised to veto any GOP attempt to roll back health care and the financial reforms.   GOP RESPONSE, Yes, but:  In the Republican rebuttal, Sen. Joni Ernst talked a lot about the economy too, but the picture wasn’t nearly as rosy as the one painted by the White House.  She made it clear that things haven’t fully recovered yet and much more still needs to be done.  Ernst also talked about the November elections that swept her party into power in the Senate, saying the GOP has a mandate.   AIRASIA, Rough skies: We’re getting a clearer picture into what happened to AirAsia Flight QZ8501.  New data shows the Airbus A320 climbed quickly before it crashed.  CNN Aviation Analyst Mary Schiavo said that means the plane encountered a ”tremendous amount of winds and weather.”  Experts have speculated since Day One that storms might have played a role in the plane crash.   DISNEYLAND MEASLES, Hey there, hi there, whoa there: Several Disneyland employees have now been diagnosed with measles as the outbreak associated with the theme park grows into the dozens. Before yesterday’s announcement, the California Department of Public Health said on its website that 36 measles cases had a link to the Disney outbreak. #DEFLATEGATE, Pump it up: Never has a group of squishy footballs gotten so much attention.  Or make that, alleged squishy footballs.  The NFL is investigating allegations New England used   balls during their AFC championship win over Indianapolis.   Patriots coach Bill Belichick told reporters this week that the team will cooperate with ”whatever they want us to do.”  If the league determines that the Patriots let the air out, someone will have to pay the price    at least $25, 000, according to the rulebook.   New England meets Seattle in the Super Bowl on February 1. There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning. Be sure to tune in to ”New Day,” from 6 to 9 a. m. ET, join us at NewDayCNN. com and go and have a GREAT NEW DAY!