MOSCOW  —   The Kremlin’s United Russia party and its three main allies maintained their lock on Parliament in national elections on Sunday, according to early results, with particularly low turnout in the largest cities. The expected outcome will result in a    State Duma, or lower house of Parliament, which has long supported President Vladimir V. Putin as he curbed civil liberties and sent the military on new foreign adventures. Ella A. Pamfilova, the head of the Central Election Commission, announced that there were some reports of irregularities, but nothing excessive. Ms. Pamfilova, a respected human rights advocate newly appointed to the post, vowed to nullify the results if any obvious fraud  —   something of a tradition in previous elections  —   was detected. Widespread perceptions of vote rigging in the last parliamentary election, in 2011, prompted mass street demonstrations, and the Kremlin, determined to avoid a repeat, seemed to try to make the entire campaign as uneventful as possible. It even moved the election date to September from December, apparently in the hope that many Russians would ignore the monthlong election season. “There have been all sorts of elections: predictable, dastardly and dishonest,” Yevgeny Roizman, the mayor of Yekaterinburg and an opposition member, posted on Twitter. “But I have not seen any more nauseating or dull than today’s. ” With just over 10 percent of the ballots counted late Sunday evening, United Russia was leading with 46 percent, according to official results on   television. A nationalist party, the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia, was in second place with 17 percent, followed by the Communist Party, with 17 percent, and A Just Russia, with 6 percent. Those parties already form the loyal opposition and rarely challenge Mr. Putin. The initial results mirrored exit polls released by the   polling organization, the Russian Public Opinion Research Center. Final results from across the country, which has 11 time zones, were expected on Monday at the earliest. The ruling party had braced for worse results given the sullen public mood after two years of recession, caused by falling oil prices and Western sanctions over Russian military actions in Ukraine. Mr. Putin, visiting United Russia headquarters in Moscow on Sunday, expressed satisfaction with the results. “The results are good,” he said. “We know that people are having a difficult time, there are many problems, many unresolved issues, and nonetheless we have this result. ” Turnout was low in some major urban areas, including Moscow and St. Petersburg. The early results showed it was less than 30 percent in Moscow, compared with more than 50 percent in 2011. Those who turned out to vote thought they might be able to effect change. “I am fed up with these four permanent parties,” said Andrei, a voter in his late 30s at a polling station in northeast Moscow, who declined to give his full name. “I want something new. ” None of the liberal opposition parties seemed to have cracked the 5 percent threshold needed to get into Parliament. Opposition candidates say the government’s tight control over the news media means they get little exposure. But the notoriously fractious opposition is also split into many parties, diluting support. Some independent candidates could still win seats through the individual races. This year, for the first time, half of the 450 seats in the State Duma were decided by proportional distribution and half by individual races. There were just two opposition members in the last Parliament, Dmitry G. Gudkov and Ilya Ponomarev. Mr. Ponomarev, the only member of Parliament to vote against the 2014 annexation of Crimea, fled the country in the face of legal prosecution seen as punishment for that vote. Mr. Gudkov was locked in a tight race on Sunday. The Kremlin worked hard to present the election as fair and transparent. It wanted to remove the stain from the 2011 election and show that enormous public support for Mr. Putin could be translated into votes. The president’s approval rating has hovered above 80 percent since he decided to grab Crimea back from Ukraine. Mr. Putin, 63, the most powerful man in Russia for 16 years, is expected to seek a fourth term as president in 2018, and his senior political advisers want elections to reflect his poll ratings. “They want Putin to be seen as very popular and not stealing elections,” said Abbas Gallyamov, a political scientist.