■ Optimism is easy to come by in the offseason, but maintaining it in the regular season for even two games can be far more difficult. Just ask the Jaguars ( ) the Raiders (  with 69 points allowed through two games) and the Buccaneers (  after being crushed   by the Cardinals). ■ Cam Newton can still dominate any team other than the Broncos. The Panthers quarterback moved his record against   teams to   over the last two seasons with a   dismantling of the 49ers. And his   news conference may have   resurrected the boater (see below). ■ No lead is ever safe for the Cleveland Browns, who were up   over the Ravens in the first quarter before a missed   was returned to the opposite end zone, giving Baltimore two points. The Ravens proceeded to methodically storm back to a   victory. ■ It apparently does matter who plays quarterback for the Patriots. The team’s offense fell off a cliff when Jimmy Garoppolo was knocked out of the game with a shoulder injury. Jacoby Brissett, a rookie out of North Carolina State, replaced Garoppolo, and New England barely hung on to win. ■ There is no place like (new) home. The Rams beat the Seahawks in their return to Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum after 36 years in other stadiums, and the Vikings beat the Packers in their first game in the   U. S. Bank Stadium. The future looked bright on Sunday night in Minnesota. The Vikings finally got to play a regular season game in U. S. Bank Stadium, their gleaming new home. Their fans were thrilled by a dominant performance from young receiver Stefon Diggs. And a convincing   victory over the   Green Bay Packers even made the prospect of losing Adrian Peterson to a serious knee injury feel like a footnote. Diggs exploded for career highs with 9 catches for 182 yards. He caught 9 of the 10 passes thrown his way, and seemed able to get open at will against the Packers. Getting Diggs the ball was Sam Bradford, the underachieving veteran quarterback the Vikings traded for two weeks ago after starter Teddy Bridgewater was injured. Bradford, plagued by injuries and inconsistency in his career in St. Louis and Philadelphia, was excellent Sunday, playing through a badly bruised left hand while completing 22 of 30 passes for 286 yards and 2 touchdowns. Minnesota’s passing game helped offset a running game that struggled even before Peterson went down. After leading the N. F. L. in rushing last season, the    Peterson now has just 50 yards combined through the first two games of the season on 31 carries. While no official announcement has been made regarding Peterson’s status going forward, he was shown being unable to put any weight on the knee as he was helped off the field. With or without Peterson, the Vikings are   and in first place in the N. F. C. ’s North Division. For the Packers, who struggled all game with pass protection and ball security, the loss dropped the team to  . Aaron Rodgers struggled all night to connect with his receivers and was intercepted by Trae Waynes late in the fourth quarter to end the Packers’ rally. Rodgers also fumbled three times, losing one of them. Anyone questioning why the Denver Broncos gave Von Miller nearly $70 million in guaranteed money after a long set of contract negotiations this offseason got their answer on Sunday. Miller dominated the Indianapolis Colts, sacking Andrew Luck three times, including a clutch play that staved off a comeback attempt and sealed Denver’s   victory. When it was over, Miller walked off the field in Denver to a chorus of “M. V. P” chants from Broncos fans. Miller was the Super Bowl M. V. P. thanks largely to his ability to punch the ball out while sacking a quarterback, and in the closing minutes of Sunday’s game, as Luck tried to rally his team to a    victory, it was Miller, perhaps the heart and soul of the Broncos, who came through with the play of the game, sacking Luck and stripping the ball free. The fumble was recovered by Shane Ray and returned for a touchdown. Game over. There was concern this offseason that losing Peyton Manning would put too much pressure on the Broncos’ defense, but under coordinator Wade Phillips they look nearly as strong as a year ago. On top of Miller’s big play, Aqib Talib returned an interception for a touchdown, helping the Broncos’ defense offset an uneven performance by the offense. Manning’s replacement, Trevor Siemian, completed 22 of 33 passes for 266 yards, but was kept without a touchdown. The Broncos are now   in the   era. Cam Newton threw his   122nd touchdown pass on Sunday, but all anyone wanted to talk about was his hat. Following Carolina’s   win over the San Francisco 49ers, the reigning N. F. L. M. V. P. came out for his   news conference in a straw boater hat and bow tie that set Twitter ablaze with comparisons to everything from carnival barkers to barbershop quartets to Lyle Lanley, the   monorail salesman from “The Simpsons. ” The first question from the media was about where Newton got the anachronistic hat, but he smiled, and chose not reveal the source, saying “Undisclosed. But shoutout to my connect. ” Carolina, the league’s   offense from a year ago returned to form Sunday, led by Newton, who threw for 353 yards and four touchdowns. The Panthers turned the ball over four times, but still managed to pile up 529 yards on offense. Here’s how the Panthers won. The quarterback situation in New England got even more complicated this week when Jimmy Garoppolo, who had been thriving in place of the suspended Tom Brady, went down with an injury to his throwing shoulder in the second quarter and was ruled out for the rest of the game. The Patriots struggled without Garoppolo, but held on to beat the Dolphins,   behind   quarterback Jacoby Brissett. Here’s how Brissett looked against the Dolphins. Prior to the hit by the Dolphins’ Kiko Alonso that crushed him into the turf, Garoppolo was shredding the Miami defense, having completed 18 of 27 passes for 234 yards and 3 touchdowns. With Brady suspended through Week 4, the emergence of Garoppolo had taken a great deal of pressure off of New England, as he opened the season with an upset win on the road over Arizona and got the team off to a host start this week as well. The injury, which could potentially keep Garoppolo out for multiple weeks, leaves the Patriots with a thin depth chart at the game’s most important position.   Jacoby Brissett took over for Garoppolo. Behind a conservative game plan, Brissett completed 6 of 9 passes for 92 yards. Patriots kicker Stephen Gostkowski missed a late field goal to put the game away, but the Dolphins came up short on their final drive. Professional football returned to Los Angeles, or at least something resembling it did, as the Rams held on to beat the Seattle Seahawks   in their home opener at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. Beating the Seahawks, an N. F. C. West rival, for the third consecutive time likely felt good, but that was tempered by the fact that the Rams have failed to score a touchdown through two games. Here’s our report from the Coliseum. The focus before the game was on the injured ankle of Russell Wilson, but the Seahawks may want to be more concerned about the team’s running game. Traditionally a strength for Seattle, Seattle’s runners combined for just 67 yards on the ground, averaging 2. 8 yards an attempt. And Seahawks running back Christine Michael lost a fumble late in the fourth quarter to seal the victory for the Rams. This is the second consecutive season that the Seahawks have gotten off to a rough start, with the team going   last year before going   to close the season. It did not live up to the slugfests these teams are known for, but the Pittsburgh Steelers and Cincinnati Bengals once again clashed, and in a game that was in doubt until the final seconds, the Steelers held on for a narrow   victory. Tensions were undoubtedly high between the teams, but poor field conditions, caused by rain earlier in the day, led to a sloppy game in which neither Antonio Brown of the Steelers nor A. J. Green of the Bengals  —   two of the best receivers in the N. F. L.  —   cracked 40 yards receiving. Brown in particular struggled, catching just 4 passes on 11 targets, staring at his hands in disbelief at one point after an uncharacteristic drop. During an   interview at halftime, Coach Mike Tomlin of the Steelers attributed the sluggish play of both offenses to the familiarity the teams have for each other. They have now played each other four times in ten months. The Steelers defense, which has struggled against the pass in each of the last two seasons, allowed Andy Dalton to pass for 366 yards, but they limited the Bengals just enough for Ben Roethlisberger’s three touchdown passes to lead Pittsburgh to victory. The Bengals had plenty of opportunities, but fumbled twice late in the game, including one on an attempted lateral by Giovani Bernard with 8 seconds remaining to seal their fate. ■ Prescott Strong for Cowboys: Discussing Dak Prescott after the rookie quarterback’s first NFL victory, Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones managed to throw in references to folks such as Troy Aikman, Tom Brady and Ben Roethlisberger  —   QBs with nine Super Bowl victories combined. Not bad company for a guy who was a   draft pick and is only playing because Tony Romo is out with an injured back. Prescott ran for a   TD  went 22 for 30 for 292 yards, and showed a veteran’s poise in the pocket, helping the Cowboys beat the Washington Redskins   on Sunday as he stayed   as a pro so far. Here’s how Dallas won. ■ Titans Rally to Beat Lions: Marcus Mariota converted a fourth down with a perfectly lofted   touchdown pass to Andre Johnson with 1:13 left, lifting the Tennessee Titans to a   win over the Detroit Lions on Sunday. Mariota dropped the pass over linebacker Tahir Whitehead to Johnson just before safety Rafael Bush could get to the veteran receiver to potentially break up the pass. The Titans ( ) ended a   losing streak, dating to last December, after Mariota threw two TD passes in the fourth quarter after trailing  .  —   Associated Press ■ The Browns Continue to Be Bad: The Cleveland Browns looked to be moving along just fine without Robert Griffin III, starting Week 2’s matchup against the Baltimore Ravens with touchdowns on the first three drives of the game and grabbing a   lead. But that old Browns luck kicked in immediately following the third touchdown, as Patrick Murray’s extra point attempted was blocked, and Tavon Young recovered the ball and returned it to the other end zone for two points. It was just the second   recovery for a score in N. F. L. history. From that point forward it was all Baltimore, with Joe Flacco rallying his team to a   victory on the road. Anyone expecting a   shootout similar to the one when the Giants and Saints met last season was disappointed. On Sunday, neither team scored an offensive touchdown until the early fourth quarter. A dreary game came down to a humdrum   field goal by the Giants Josh Brown that broke a tie and gave the Giants a   victory. Here’s how the Giants beat the Saints. ■ P. J. Williams, a cornerback for the Saints, went down in a brutal collision and appeared unable to move as he was carted off the field and taken to the hospital. Williams, a    rookie, came in low to try and tackle Larry Donnell of the Giants early in the first quarter, and had his neck snapped from    in the collision. Fox broadcasters reported that Williams regained movement in his extremities, and the Saints announced he was being evaluated for a concussion.