(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. A man sleeping in the doorway of a bar in the industrial town of Linden, N. J. turned out to be the suspect in the bombing in Manhattan on Saturday night. He opened fire on officers, was shot multiple times and then was taken into custody, ending a huge manhunt that involved the first use of the nation’s Wireless Emergency Alerts as an electronic wanted poster: “WANTED: Ahmad Khan Rahami,    male. See media for pic. Call    if see. ” _____ 2. The authorities linked Mr. Rahami, a naturalized U. S. citizen from Afghanistan, to a second   bomb planted in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, which did not explode. Above, extra security on Monday. Officials also believe Mr. Rahami is connected to a bombing earlier Saturday on the Jersey Shore and a backpack full of pipe bombs found in Elizabeth, N. J. late Sunday. Friends say Mr. Rahami, a Muslim, had become more religious recently. _____ 3. The presidential candidates staked out competing claims on national security, seeking to persuade voters of their ability to ward off terrorist attacks on U. S. soil. Donald Trump called for police profiling of people from the Muslim world, while Hillary Clinton urged Americans to show “courage and vigilance,” and not to demonize Muslims or Americans of foreign origin. Mrs. Clinton said Mr. Trump was not undermining militant groups with his stance but rather playing into their hands, making him a “recruiting sergeant for the terrorists. ” _____ 4. The U. S. acknowledged its second friendly fire case in days. An American airstrike hit a police post in Southern Afghanistan rather than the Taliban fighters attacking it, leaving at least seven officers dead in a war that has endured for 15 years. Above, the site of a recent car bombing in Kabul. Two days ago, the U. S. admitted that an airstrike in Syria had killed government soldiers rather than Islamic State fighters. The U. S. maintains hope that a partial   in Syria will endure, but the Syrian military declared that it was over and began bombardments in   parts of the northern city of Aleppo. A Syrian Red Crescent aid convoy trying to deliver desperately needed aid there was attacked. _____ 5. Prosecutors in the   Bridgegate case came out with a striking point of agreement with the defense. In opening statements, the prosecutors said that Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey knew that lanes leading to the George Washington Bridge were being closed to punish a rebellious local mayor, knowledge Mr. Christie has denied. Two former members of his administration are on trial in the case, including Bridget Anne Kelly, above. _____ 6. U. S. federal regulators officially endorsed the concept of   cars as potentially safer than   traffic. They issued guidelines that aimed to help channel the nascent industry in a way that balances the commercial interests of companies like Tesla, Google and Uber with public safety. Researchers who specialize in the technology that guides   cars are the first to concede the limitations of their science at the moment. “Knowing what I know about computer vision, I wouldn’t take my hands off the steering wheel,” one expert said. _____ 7. Nine Emmys for “The People v. O. J. Simpson” prompted Marcia Clark, above right with the actress who played her, to claim vindication. Miss the awards show? It had ups (the much trolled and hacked actress Leslie Jones inviting the show’s accountants to guard her Twitter account) and downs (the shadow of two murder victims hanging over the many awards for “O. J. ”) Here’s our collection of the best and worst moments. And this is the week that new TV series launch and old friends return. Our experts have recommendations for every night of the week, including “Pitch” on Thursday (9 p. m. Fox) about a screwball pitcher poised to be the first woman to play Major League Baseball. _____ 8. Arctic sea ice shrank to its   level on record as of Saturday, just behind the mark set in 2012. Measures to mitigate global warming are proliferating. JetBlue, seeking to get ahead of looming restrictions on greenhouse gas pollution by airlines, said it would buy more than 330 million gallons of renewable fuel over 10 years. _____ 9. “  ” fans chanted. Tim Tebow had his first workout as a minor league baseball player in Port St. Lucie, Fla. “It was one of the hardest decisions of my life to choose football over baseball,” he said. Our sportswriter says Tebow has some work to do  —   like reining in his throwing arm, which at one point sent a ball catapulting over his partner’s head. “Defensively,” our sportswriter says, “he looks at times like a quarterback trying to play the outfield. ” _____ 10. One of our   stories today is an essay by a college senior on campus culture that encourages drinking to blackout. She describes a pattern of alcohol overdose encouraged by organized drinking games, like the frat house cuff and chug  —   being handcuffed to a partner until the two of you empty a fifth. She blamed the stress of competition, a poor job market and loan debt. “At the end of the day, for a lot of students, forgetting will always be the best option,” she writes. _____ 11. Finally, archaeologists have begun to uncover the outlines of the vast ancient empire of Angkor in what is now Cambodia, Thailand, Vietnam and Laos. Using a technology known as lidar, they shot pulses of light at the ground from lasers mounted on helicopters, which revealed subtle gradations in the landscape. “The vegetation was obscuring these parts of Angkor and other monumental sites,” one archaeologist said. Buddhist priests blessed the sensors before the readings were taken. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s the Weekend Briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.