 (CNN) On October 11, 1975, ”Saturday Night Live” was first beamed into living rooms. It wasn’t called ”Saturday Night Live” then. It was ”NBC’s Saturday Night,” because there was another ”Saturday Night Live,” hosted by Howard Cosell, over on ABC. And its Not Ready for Prime Time Players    seven youthful comic veterans of theatrical and improvisational troupes    were known only to those who may have seen performances of Second City (both its Chicago and Toronto versions) or ”National Lampoon’s Lemmings.”  Almost 40 years later, the show is an institution: its players celebrated, its catchphrases ubiquitous, its very name synonymous with the comedy big leagues.  ’Saturday Night Live’s’ 5 best skits, The show is celebrating with a   special on Sunday, February 15    and here, we celebrate ”SNL’s” landmark contributions to pop culture. There are at least 40 of them, after all. ”Live” From the beginning, ”SNL” was both   comedy and a throwback to TV’s golden era. The show aired live: no retakes, no second chances. Though there’s plenty of taped material    and an occasional delay in case of profanity    it still airs live today. ”From New York” Also like those golden age shows, it airs from New York. When ”SNL” started, the Big Apple was a TV backwater, home of soap operas, news operations and little else. Today, a number of network shows shoot in Gotham, and even talk shows have come back to town. ”It’s Saturday Night!” Before ”Saturday Night Live,” late Saturday night was home to old movies, reruns and local programming. The show not only made the slot a network profit center, it helped bring in a youthful audience, which it still does today. Studio 8H, 30 Rockefeller Center, When it was built in the early ’30s, 8H was the largest studio in the world, home to Arturo Toscanini’s orchestral radio broadcasts. The NBC studio has been the home of ”SNL” since the beginning.  The Not Ready for Prime Time Players, The show’s first cast: Dan Aykroyd, John Belushi, Chevy Chase, Jane Curtin, Garrett Morris, Laraine Newman and Gilda Radner. The show has had more than 130 performers in the years since. Lorne Michaels, Except for five seasons in the early ’80s, the show’s creator and executive producer, a Canadian native and former ” ” writer, has been in charge for all of the show’s 40 seasons. Dave Wilson, ”SNL’s” original director for most of its first 20 seasons. He set the tone for the show and was game enough to take part in the occasional sketch.  Don Pardo, The longtime NBC announcer introduced the first cast    and pretty much every one after that. All told, Pardo announced for 38 of the show’s first 39 seasons. He died in August at 96. Darrell Hammond, ”SNL’s”   cast member, has taken his place.   Eugene Lee, Franne Lee and Akira Yoshimura, The Lees and Yoshimura created the show’s look in fact, Eugene Lee, who’s also won several Tonys, has been ”SNL’s” production designer for the entire run. For his part, Yoshimura has connections to several other NBC shows, including ”Today,” ”Late Night With Jimmy Fallon” and ”Star Trek.” Well, at least the ”SNL” parodies, in which he played Sulu.  ”Weekend Update” The show’s midnight hour begins with a recap of the news. It’s been hosted by everybody from Chevy Chase to Michael Che and Colin Jost, with notable turns from Dennis Miller, Norm Macdonald and Tina Fey. It hasn’t always been called ”Weekend Update”: For a time in the ’80s, the news segment was called ”SNL Newsbreak” and ”Saturday Night News.” Alec Baldwin, The ”30 Rock” actor leads the way among ”SNL’s” most popular guest hosts with 16 appearances. Steve Martin has 15. Other frequent guest hosts include Buck Henry, John Goodman and Tom Hanks. Miskel Spillman, But to prove that ”Anyone Can Host” ”SNL,” the show had a contest in 1977 to show just that. The winner was Spillman, a New Orleans octogenarian who did just fine with the program’s   humor.  Today, she’d probably get her own show. Mr. Bill, TV’s most famous   accident victim was created by Walter Williams as the subject of a Super 8 film. Soon, his adventures with Spot, Sluggo and Mr. Hands were regular features on the program. He later did commercials and game shows and even became Peter Scolari for a   TV program.   Banned hosts, Not every host was so welcome. Louise Lasser locked herself in her dressing room. She was never asked back. Milton Berle hammed it up. Never again. Steven Seagal, Martin Lawrence and Adrien Brody are also personae non gratae. Paul Simon in a turkey suit, ”SNL” is not above making stars look foolish. On the 1976 Thanksgiving show, Simon came out wearing a turkey suit and started singing ”Still Crazy After All These Years.” Dolly Parton went along with a skit called ”Planet of the Enormous Hooters,” originally written for Raquel Welch. Justin Timberlake put his d**k in a box. You get the idea. Your musical guest, ”SNL” has hosted some of the biggest names in music, often giving them their first taste of the big time. The Rolling Stones played ”SNL,” and so did Devo and Fear. Timberlake has taken the stage, and so did Lana Del Rey and Ashlee Simpson. You could set aside a portion of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (or Hall of Shame) for ”SNL’s” music. The Beatles, But ”SNL” never landed the biggest of them all, the Beatles. (Not that anyone else did, either, after 1969.) It wasn’t for lack of trying, though. After a $50 million reunion offer was made to the Fab Four in 1976, Michaels responded by countering with $3, 000. The ploy almost worked: A week later, Paul McCartney was visiting John Lennon in New York, and the two almost headed down to the studio from Lennon’s Dakota residence.  McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr all have appeared solo over the years.  Howard Shore and Paul Shaffer, For musical inspiration, the show has also relied on Shore and Shaffer. Shore was music director for the first five seasons. He’s gone on to really big things since, including composing the music for the ”Lord of the Rings” trilogy, which won him three Oscars. Shaffer, who could play music impresario Don Kirshner in a pinch, has been David Letterman’s bandleader for more than 30 years.  G. E. Smith, Another of ”SNL’s” music directors was once married to Gilda Radner and was the guitarist in Hall  Oates’ band. Smith led the ”SNL” group from 1985 to 1995. Game show parodies, What would ”SNL” be without game shows? The program has taken numerous shots at ”Jeopardy” and ”Family Feud” and frequently made up its own contests, including ”Jackie Rogers Jr. ’s $100, 000 Jackpot Wad” and one in which Phil Hartman played God. He did very well. Short films, ”SNL” has regularly gone to tape to air some short films. Some of the best include Eddie Murphy’s investigation, ”White Like Me,” Harry Shearer and Martin Short as synchronized swimmers and the cartoons of Robert Smigel’s ”TV Funhouse.” ”SNL” prime time, The show hasn’t always stayed in late night. There have been a number of   specials over the years, from the ridiculous    a messy Mardi Gras program in 1977    to the sublime: 2008’s ”Presidential Bash,” which gave Tina Fey another opportunity to play Sarah Palin. Recurring characters, John Belushi was a samurai. Phil Hartman was Unfrozen Caveman Lawyer. Adam Sandler was Opera Man. In fact, some of these characters were so popular, they got their own movies. ”SNL” movies, Your local theater has featured movies based on ”SNL” characters almost as long as there’s been a ”Saturday Night Live.” ”The Blues Brothers” went from a strange skit to a hit album and popular movie ”Wayne’s World” was a huge success. Even Julia Sweeney’s androgynous Pat got a movie    ”It’s Pat”    though most folks probably want to forget it.   ”SNL” movie stars, The list of ”SNL” performers who have gone on to   stardom is long and influential: John Belushi, Bill Murray, Eddie Murphy, Mike Myers, Adam Sandler, Tina Fey, Kristen Wiig and Will Ferrell, just for starters. Even Robert Downey Jr. spent a year in the ”SNL” cast when he was best known for playing a jerk in ”Weird Science.” Those who have left us, A handful of ”SNL” cast members have left the stage entirely. They include John Belushi, Gilda Radner, Phil Hartman, Chris Farley, Jan Hooks, Danitra Vance and Charles Rocket, as well as writers Tom Davis and Michael ”Mr. Mike” O’Donoghue. Fake ads, The parody commercial has long been an ”SNL” stock in trade, whether it’s Dan Aykroyd’s Ron   pitchman for    (”Mmm, that’s good bass! ”) to Chris Farley and Adam Sandler in an ad for ”Schmitt’s Gay, the beer for homosexuals.” Don’t take ”Colon Blow” or you may find yourself in need of ”Ooops, I Crapped My Pants!”  Pushing the limits, ”SNL” has battled NBC’s censors over the years, so it’s surprising what did make it on the air. How about ”Sofa King,” the New Jersey furniture store? Or the music video ”D**k in a Box”? The show was once even sponsored by ”Pussy Whip, the first dessert topping for cats.” Impersonations, Over the years, ”SNL’s” parodies of celebrities have become better known than the celebrity’s own persona. Dan Aykroyd nailed   host Tom Snyder, and Phil Hartman was a wicked Frank Sinatra (”I’ve got chunks of guys like you in my stool! ”). The show’s been on long enough that its own stars have since been parodied witness Jay Pharoah’s take on Eddie Murphy. Politicians and presidents, But when it comes to impersonations, politicians deserve their own slot. Gerald Ford may have been our most athletic president    the guy almost went into the NFL    but when Chevy Chase started falling down, it was all over. Will Ferrell was a master George W. Bush, while Dana Carvey cornered the market for W. ’s father. And could Tina Fey have helped decide the 2008 election with her version of Sarah Palin? 1980 independent John Anderson is lucky he showed up in person.   Catchphrases, Where you want to start? ”Cheeseboogie, cheeseboogie, cheeseboogie”? ”Schwing!” ”Well, isn’t that special?” ”Da Bearss!” A good chunk of the pop culture phrasebook wouldn’t exist if it weren’t for ”Saturday Night Live.” Shockers, ”Saturday Night Live” is, by definition, live, so occasionally the show shocks even the cast. Sinead O’Connor ripped up a photo of Pope John Paul II while saying ”Fight the real enemy.” Elvis Costello abruptly stopped ”Less Than Zero” to play the   ”Radio, Radio.” Charles Rocket let the   fly. For all of the planning and preparation, sometimes stuff happens. Cameos, Sometimes the shock is on us    especially when there are unexpected guests. Janet Reno dropped by ”Janet Reno’s Dance Party,” and the real Sarah Palin showed up next to Fey’s version. Perhaps the most ingenious was Barbra Streisand guesting on ”Coffee Talk,” delighting Streisand worshiper Linda Richman (Mike Myers). Writers, Viewers naturally focus on the cast, but without ”SNL’s” writers, the show would be a lot of dead air. So let’s pay some tribute to Anne Beatts and Marilyn Suzanne Miller, Al Franken and Tom Davis, Jim Downey and Alan Zweibel, Andy Breckman and Carol Leifer, Bonnie and Terry Turner, Jack Handey and Robert Smigel, Bob Odenkirk and Ian   Adam McKay and Max Brooks, Mindy Kaling and Simon Rich, and the dozens of others who have written all that material. Imitators, ”Saturday Night Live” opened the door for several other edgy sketch shows. An early competitor was ”Fridays” on ABC, which gave us Michael Richards and Larry David. Later came ”MADtv,” ”Mr. Show” and ”Exit 57.” If the   variety show is no more, it’s because of ”SNL” and its imitators. Canadians, ”Saturday Night Live” may seem as American as apple pie, but like the Band, there’s a portion that’s as Canadian as a maple   moose. Among the show’s     notables: Dan Aykroyd, Mike Myers, Martin Short, Norm Macdonald, musicians Howard Shore and Paul Shaffer, and creator Lorne Michaels. Improvisers, The show has also used some improv groups as pipelines. More than two dozen of the cast members have come from Second City’s outposts in Chicago and Toronto, and at least 15 have learned the trade with Los Angeles’ Groundlings comedy troupe. Going viral, In recent years, word of mouth    ”Did you see that sketch?”    has been replaced by viral video and social media. The show quickly adapted to new technology, particularly thanks to Andy Samberg and the Lonely Island troupe, whose ”Lazy Sunday” became a Web sensation in 2005. Emmys, According to the Internet Movie Database, ”SNL” has won 45 Primetime Emmys over the years. It won four its first year    including outstanding   series    and, just last year, picked up five more. ”Good night!” The first show of the   season was ”SNL’s” 767th, and it’s long since become the   variety series in U. S. history. To put it another way, both the season premiere host, Chris Pratt, and musical guest, Ariana Grande, were born after ”SNL” first went on the air. So here’s to another 40 years    except, this time, let’s use more cowbell. 