WASHINGTON  —   The F. B. I. is the government agency in charge of investigating terrorism. But the bureau has been criticized for failing to thwart a series of terrorist attacks in recent years in Boston Orlando, Fla. Garland, Tex. and now New York. In each of those cases, the person suspected of carrying out the attack had been investigated previously by the F. B. I. The latest case involved Ahmad Khan Rahami, 28, who was charged with setting off bombs in New York and New Jersey. Why wasn’t the F. B. I. able to prevent the attacks by arresting those now believed to be responsible? None of the people in those cases had broken the law or given a clear indication that they intended to kill. The F. B. I. is not allowed to conduct   investigations without justification. Traveling to Pakistan or Afghanistan, or expressing admiration for Osama bin Laden or the Islamic State, could put someone on the F. B. I. ’s radar, but none are illegal. The F. B. I. cannot jail someone without evidence of a crime and must follow extensive guidelines that are intended to protect privacy and civil liberties. James B. Comey, the F. B. I. director, is fond of reminding the public of the F. B. I. ’s checkered past and what happens when the rule of law is not followed. He keeps a copy on his desk of   General Robert F. Kennedy’s approval to wiretap the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. a move that later brought shame to the bureau. What can the F. B. I. do to prevent an attack? A lot, in some cases, but that is not always enough. After Omar Mateen fatally shot 49 people in an Orlando nightclub in June, Mr. Comey revealed that the F. B. I. had investigated Mr. Mateen beginning in 2013. At that time, the bureau opened a preliminary investigation after Mr. Mateen told   he had family ties to Al Qaeda, was a member of Hezbollah and wanted to die a martyr. The F. B. I. used confidential informants to determine whether Mr. Mateen was a terrorist and placed him on a watch list. A preliminary investigation has a limit of six months, but it was extended another four in Mr. Mateen’s case. But the bureau failed to find evidence that he was plotting an attack or had connections to an overseas terrorist group. In an interview with reporters after the Orlando shooting, Mr. Comey said about the case: “We are also going to look hard at our own work to see whether there is something we should have done differently. So far, the honest answer is, I don’t think so. ” In a failed plot last year to attack an exhibition of cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad in Garland, Tex. one of the attackers was already under full investigation. Yet the F. B. I. was unaware that the attackers had obtained guns and traveled across the country. The police killed both men before they carried out their plan. Did the F. B. I. miss anything in investigating Mr. Rahami? That question will linger for months. Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, has already said he wants to review the F. B. I. ’s handling of the case. Law enforcement officials believe agents did not miss anything. After Mr. Rahami stabbed his brother during an August 2014 dispute in New Jersey, where the family lives, the local police interviewed Mohammad Rahami, the father. He told investigators that Ahmad might be involved in terrorism. The police passed that information to the F. B. I.  Joint Terrorism Task Force in Newark. That prompted an assessment, which can last 90 days and is the most basic of bureau investigations. It allows the use of informants, limited physical surveillance, mining databases and conducting interviews. Members of the task force repeatedly interviewed Mohammad Rahami and spoke with others who knew his son. The F. B. I. did not interview Mr. Rahami, who was jailed after the stabbing, and closed the case the following month. It is unclear why the F. B. I. did not seek out Mr. Rahami, but an interview alone does not always identify a future criminal. In 2011, the F. B. I. received information from Russian officials that Tamerlan Tsarnaev, one of the brothers who bombed the Boston Marathon, had become radicalized. In that case, the F. B. I. opened an assessment and interviewed both Mr. Tsarnaev and his family members, but the Russians never provided additional information, and the investigation was dropped. What happens when a parent like Mohammad Rahami calls the F. B. I. concerned about a child? Sometimes agents investigate the warning and close the case. In other instances, they take action. In May, the parents of a young man in Queens told the authorities that their    son, Ranbir Singh Shergill, had threatened family members. After the parents gave officers consent to search the home, members of an F. B. I. terrorism task force found a handgun, several magazines and 118 rounds of ammunition. They also found a note that discussed killing police officers. The F. B. I. charged Mr. Shergill in June with buying a gun in Ohio using fake identification and transporting it to New York. Is it fair to always ask if the F. B. I. is at fault? Nobody expects the police to prevent every homicide in Chicago or Los Angeles, or to prevent public corruption or eliminate drugs. But the expectation among many Americans is that the F. B. I. should stop every terrorist attack. Former and current F. B. I. officials accept the reality that the bureau faces a different standard. The threat has only grown since Sept. 11, 2001, and more recently with the rise of the Islamic State. In recent years, the F. B. I. has averaged 10, 000 assessments annually, and 7, 000 to 10, 000 preliminary or full investigations involving international terrorism. In addition, the F. B. I. receives tens of thousands of terrorism tips. All of those have to be tracked down, as in the case involving Mr. Rahami. That does not include information the F. B. I. learns from foreign partners, war zones or American agencies. Most investigations never end in prosecution. In the meantime, the F. B. I. and the Justice Department have prosecuted more than 100 cases involving the Islamic State. Officials say those are the cases that the public tends to overlook, as well as all the other plots they have stopped.