Good morning. Welcome to California Today, a morning update on the stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Tell us about the issues that matter to you  —   and what you’d like to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. Want to receive California Today by email? Sign up. Insults are just part of life in California, according to many Native Americans in the state. Last year, for example, there was the Senate candidate caught on video making a “whooping” gesture in reference to an American Indian, and then there was the pope’s canonization of the Rev. Junípero Serra, viewed by prominent Native Americans as a far from saintly figure. Then there are the mascots. Pressure to eliminate Native   nicknames and mascots from California’s schools has been around since at least the 1960s. Scores of schools have gotten rid of them, and last year the state banned the use of “Redskins” as a team name or mascot. Yet, according to a survey out of the California Indian Culture and Sovereignty Center at Cal State San Marcos, more than 140 of the state’s public   schools were still using such mascots as of 2015, a great many accompanied by imagery of Indians in feathered headdress. They have names like the Durfee School Warriors, the Washington Elementary Little Aztecs, the Ripon High Indians and the Cherrylee School Chiefs. Native American leaders say such mascots perpetuate ethnic stereotyping that goes back centuries. “My big issue is, if you dehumanize us, then you’re never going to make policies for us,” said Joely Proudfit, who leads the Cal State center. “You’re never going to give us a seat at the table. You’re never going to see us as human beings. ” Dr. Proudfit said she hoped the survey, published as a map showing the mascots peppered across California, would draw attention to how widespread the practice remains. School leaders who have refused to budge on the mascot issue talk about deeply felt pride, sporting legacies that date back decades, and support from individual Native Americans who see them as a tribute. Racism, they say, plays no part in it. At Chowchilla High School, outside Merced, one of four schools across the state affected by the Redskins ban, officials said their intentions in using the mascot were misunderstood. “Here, the Chowchilla Redskins emboldens the spirit of strength, honor and respect,” said Marty Piepenbrok, a community relations spokesman. “There is nothing disparaging about it whatsoever. ” At the high school’s graduation ceremony in June, the biggest cheer rose up at the mention of “Redskins,” The Fresno Bee reported. The school has until January to drop the mascot. Even without a broader ban, however, many schools have responded voluntarily to the concerns of Indian tribes by swapping out their Native American mascots. Others have tried to sidestep the issue by dropping just the imagery associated with the names. For Winters High School, home of the Warriors, that has meant a   phasing out of the school symbol depicting an Indian man in headdress. The name will stay, said Todd Cutler, the superintendent of the district outside Sacramento. But when it comes time to replace the gym floor and the sign in front of the school, the Indian imagery that adorns them will become, simply, “W. ” “It’s really a delicate, careful road we are moving down,” Dr. Cutler said. • A battle has broken out in Los Angeles over the fundamental nature of the distinctively   and   city, writes Los Angeles bureau chief Adam Nagourney. [The New York Times] • A    firefighter was killed while heading to a blaze near Vandenberg Air Force Base. [Ventura County Star] • An illegal shelter in Lunada Bay built by the   Bay Boys, a group of surfers, will be demolished. [Los Angeles Times] • A stretch of winding highway in Orange County has killed six motorcyclists in seven weeks. [Orange County Register] • Victor Scheinman, a pioneer in robotics, died in Petrolia. He was 73. [The New York Times] • An oil spill was discovered in San Pablo Bay after a mystery odor sent dozens of people to the hospital. [East Bay Times] • The release of police footage in the fatal shooting of a homeless man set off protests in North Sacramento. [Sacramento Bee] • California farmer: “We have to raise the price of goods and people have to be O. K. with it. ” [The Guardian] • Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan pledged $3 billion to fighting disease. The effort will involve a “biohub” in San Francisco. [The New York Times] • Google will be opening a technology lab in Oakland to mentor black and Latino computer scientists. [USA Today] • Apple is said to have discussed a partnership with McLaren, the racecar builder. [The New York Times] • Check out this aerial view of the recent Dragon Boat festival in Oakland. [  High Oakland] Capital punishment has long been one of the most contentious issues in California. In November, voters will decide between two competing ballot measures: Proposition 62, which would end the death penalty, and Proposition 66, which would speed up the executions. Jennifer Medina, a national correspondent for The New York Times in Los Angeles, takes a close look at both propositions. A group devoted to creating play areas has awarded $1 million to spur 50 new projects that create opportunities for urban children to play at places like bus stops, barber shops and Laundromats. The winning projects were announced this week by KaBoom, a   nonprofit group that has built 2, 700 playgrounds across the country since it was founded in 1996. Four of the winners hail from California. McFarland, north of Bakersfield, proposed adding a play space to a bus stop. In Kerman, outside Fresno, city officials said they would enliven sidewalks and crosswalks with interactive designs like hot lava and hopscotch squares. Richmond proposed a “play street” in a   neighborhood. And Family Friendly Oakland said it would make the city’s drab, cement trash cans into canvases for colorful murals. “By adding art and whimsy we’ll provide surprising moments of wonder where children and adults least expect,” wrote Tiffany Eng, the group’s founder. You can see more of the winning designs.  —   Gail Cornwall and Mike McPhate California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.