 (CNN) Kentucky is so awesome right now you are probably watching the NCAA men’s basketball tournament to see who is going to get second.  The undefeated Wildcats were scary good Thursday night in crushing West Virginia. The score was so lopsided the game was over before the first television timeout.  While the Wildcats won in a blowout, Notre Dame and Wisconsin also advanced to the Elite Eight with    wins. The Fighting Irish pulled away from Wichita State while the Badgers shook off pesky North Carolina.  During the nightcap a lot of televisions    outside the commonwealth of Kentucky    probably changed channels. The good news was Arizona and Xavier played a terrific game in the final contest of the night.  Wildcats destroy Mountaineers, Perhaps you shouldn’t provoke the beast that is Kentucky. In the week leading up to the game, West Virginia’s Daxter Miles said, ”I give them them their props. Salute them getting to  . But tomorrow they’re gonna be  .” Mr. Miles missed his guaranteed win by miles. The Wildcats smoked the Mountaineers   Thursday night in a Midwest Region contest that was never a contest. Kentucky raced to an   lead    they should have stopped it then    and had five players score in double figures on the night. Trey Lyles was the Wildcats’ top scorer with 14 points.  West Virginia couldn’t guard anyone, except maybe the official who went down when he tripped over a Mountaineer waiting at the scoring table.  Kentucky’s   record is the best start in NCAA history, which has Kentucky superfan Ashley Judd super excited. It’s still a ’W’ for Arizona, It wasn’t a pretty game for the Wildcats’ offense, but Arizona scratched its way past Xavier   in a West Region semifinal.  Arizona shot 40 percent,  while Xavier wasn’t much better at 43 percent.  The Wildcats tightened their defense toward the end, closing out with a   run that pushed them to a win and a meeting Saturday with Wisconsin. It’s a rematch of an Elite 8 game last year, which the Badgers won by one point. T. J. McConnell topped all Arizona scorers with 17 points while Matt Stainbrook led Xavier with 17 points.  Notre Dame runs away with it, The Irish found the right balance in the second half, putting the Shockers away for a   victory in the Midwest Region. Notre Dame trailed by 1 with 16:43 left when it went on a spurt that saw six different players score as the lead grew to double digits.  Demetrius Jackson, who started the run with      led the Irish with 20 points.   star Pat Connaughton had 16. Steve Vasturia, who one CBS analyst called a   assassin, chipped in 13 points.  Jerian Grant, a national player of the year candidate, had a rough night shooting, so he set up his teammates for buckets instead. He had nine points but 11 assists. Junior Fred VanVleet led the Shockers with 25 points while Darius Carter maneuvered inside for 22.   Wisconsin keeps poise in close one, Wisconsin played cool and shot hot from the   line in holding off North Carolina  .  Sam Decker was trending on Twitter but the Tar Heels were concerned about Sam Dekker (two Ks, folks!) the Wisconsin forward who wasn’t having any trouble scoring against the   Tar Heels.  Dekker, who was guarded by the Heels’ best defender, J. P. Tokoto, sliced his way for 15   points to keep the Badgers in the game. The junior had a   23 points on the night while Frank Kaminsky, one of the best players in the country, struggled. But the   tall center hit a big three and big free throws as the minutes wound down.  The Badgers were 20 for 23 from the free throw line. Kaminsky hit all eight of his attempts.  Folks also got worked up over seeing Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers and actress girlfriend Olivia Munn at the game. Seems like TBS cut to a shot of the two at every break in the action.  How’d you like to be the guy next to Rodgers? He won two U. S. Open golf titles, yet isn’t famous enough to get all the way in the celebrity fan shot. It’s OK, Andy North.   