 (CNN) Kentucky’s record might be perfect but head coach John Calipari likes to say his team isn’t. He uses the word ”undefeated.” The   Wildcats barely stayed undefeated Saturday, edging   Notre Dame   in the Midwest region final at Cleveland on two Andrew Harrison free throws with six seconds remaining.  The Wildcats advanced to the Final Four of the NCAA men’s basketball tournament for the fourth time in five seasons and are the first men’s Division I team to have a   record. Kentucky freshman   Towns was almost unstoppable in the post, with a   25 points, 17 in the second half.  Fellow freshman Devin Booker chipped in 10 points for the Wildcats.  Zach Auguste, a junior forward, sparked the Fighting Irish with 20 points and nine rebounds.  Wisconsin goes deep to down Arizona, In the first game of the day,   Wisconsin coasted past   Arizona   in the West region final at Los Angeles. The game was the first in more than 40 years to pit two teams who played each other in the Elite Eight the prior year. Wisconsin won the 2014 game in overtime. A few minutes in, Saturday’s contest didn’t look like such a great basketball game. Wisconsin had the faster slow start to grab an early  . But Arizona turned up the defense and took a   lead at halftime. After intermission, it was a   party for the Badgers, who made 10 of 12 from deep as they pulled away for the   victory.  Frank Kaminsky led the Badgers with 29 points while sizzling Sam Dekker continued his hot scoring with 27 points. Rondae   and Brandon Ashley topped the Wildcats with 17 points each.  After the game, Kaminsky showed he is a better basketball player than dancer. The   game next Saturday will be another rematch for the Badgers. In 2014, after downing Arizona in the Elite Eight, Wisconsin lost to Kentucky in a national semifinal  .  With one more victory in the Final Four, Kentucky would match the Connecticut’s women’s program, which twice has finished with a   record. With two more wins, Kentucky will become the first men’s team to go undefeated since Indiana went   and won the national championship in 1976. After Kentucky’s victory over Notre Dame, #BeforeKentuckyLoses quickly became a trending hashtag on Twitter.  The other two Final Four teams will be determined Sunday. Louisville and Michigan State play in the East Region final, and Duke and Gonzaga meet in the South Region title game. 