 (CNN) Congress will review the Iran nuke deal. President Obama wants Cuba off terror list. And a jury is seated in yet another   trial. It’s Wednesday (Tax Day!) and here are the five things to know for your New Day.  IRAN NUKE DEAL BILL, Compromise reached: Looks like Congress will get to review any potential Iran nuclear deal after all. Yesterday, a Senate committee unanimously approved a bill requiring President Obama to submit any final agreement with Iran to Congress, which will have up to 52 days to review. That includes an initial review period of 30 days, with 12 more days added automatically if Congress passes a bill and sends it to the President, and an additional 10 days of congressional review if Obama vetoes the legislation.  In light of the bipartisan support for the compromise, the White House promptly dropped its veto threats and said the President would sign the bill if it passes. CUBA, Off terror list? President Obama recommended to Congress yesterday that Cuba be removed from the government’s list of state sponsors of terrorism. The recommendation    which was expected    comes after Obama’s historic meeting over the weekend with Cuban President Raul Castro, as the two countries try to   diplomatic relations. There was some grumbling from the GOP about the recommendation, but one Republican senator said it’s ”the right move to make” and he was glad Obama did it. Congress could pass a resolution to block Obama’s decision, although at this point it probably wouldn’t survive a presidential veto. BEACH GANG RAPE, ’Not the first’: Panama City Beach is reeling from a video that appears to show a woman being gang raped on a beach of the popular Florida spring break destination. It’s not the first time such a thing has happened there, said Bay County Sheriff Frank McKeithen, who added ”there’s a number of videos we’ve recovered with things similar to this, and I can only imagine how many things we haven’t recovered.” Two Alabama college students have been arrested, while an arrest warrant has been issued for a third suspect. The victim didn’t even know what had happened to her until she saw an edited portion of the video on the news. The woman plans to press charges. USE OF FORCE   Suspect run over: Is it OK for the police to run over an armed man to keep the public safe? That’s the debate in Arizona, after video surfaced of a police officer using his car to intentionally run into a   suspect armed with a rifle. The incident occurred in February in a town near Tucson. Police say the use of force was warranted because the man had already fired a shot into the air from the stolen rifle he was carrying and he was running towards a heavily populated area. The man’s lawyer said that’s nonsense. The video proves it was an ”obvious excessive use of force,” she said, adding that it was a miracle her client wasn’t killed. The suspect    who faces 15 charges, including several felonies    has a court appearance next month. No charges have been brought against the officer. COLORADO MOVIE THEATER SHOOTING, Jury picked: Nineteen women and five men. That’s the group (jury plus alternates) that will decide the fate of accused shooter James Holmes. He’s accused of killing 12 people and injuring dozens when he allegedly opened fire inside a packed theater during a midnight showing of ”The Dark Knight Rises” in July 2012. Holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. It’s taken a long time to get to this point: jury selection started in January with 9, 000 potential jurors. Now the jury seated yesterday will hear opening statements in the case near the end of the month. Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing. Close, but. ..: SpaceX rocket fails to nail the landing, ”Closing Time”: Target employees use their (considerable) downtime to perform the Semisonic song. At least the guy has a nice voice. Nothing to see here: A Buckingham Palace guard slips and falls in front of tourists. Watch him play it off like nothing happened. Premature celebration: A runner from the University of Oregon celebrates just a tad too early. Drumming momma: Your mom may be cool, but she can’t slap the skins like this.