It was a little shimmy of her shoulders  —   cheeky, insouciant  —   accompanied by a big, toothy grin. Her opponent smirked. She looked as if she was having fun. He, not so much. The exchange came as the first presidential debate was building toward its conclusion Monday night. What was it about? I have no idea. Per instructions from my editor, I was watching with the sound off. Alone. No checking my email, no talking to my wife, no social media. It was, for me, a silent debate. The idea was simple: to test the theory that what presidential candidates  —   in this instance, Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump  —   say during debates is less important than what they look like while they’re saying it. There is plenty of anecdotal evidence to support this theory, dating from the nation’s first televised presidential debate: Richard M. Nixon versus John F. Kennedy in 1960, which set the handsome and composed Kennedy on a course to victory over the conspicuously underweight and sweaty Nixon. Ever since, presidential debates have routinely been defined more powerfully by images than by words. You can even find academic research on the subject: nonverbal expression, the experts call it. A psychology professor has had some success predicting the outcome of elections based purely on which candidate blinks less frequently during debates, the idea being that   blinking is a sign of stress and anxiety, generally not desirable qualities in a commander in chief. (For what it’s worth, it’s also possible to blink too little, which can make a candidate seem reptilian.) Hence our experiment: Can you learn more about who won the debate by watching it on mute? It began, of course, with the ritual handshake at center stage before the candidates retreated to their lecterns. After the shake, Mr. Trump placed his hand gently on Mrs. Clinton’s back. There were different ways to interpret the gesture. Was he being patronizing  —   trying to assert his   dominance from the    —   or just looking to demonstrate that he felt comfortable, relaxed, unthreatened by the professional politician? Whether involuntary or intentional, the signal was unmistakable: I’m the strong one here. And either way, they were soon off, discussing   …     the most pressing issues facing our nation, I can only assume. It will be no surprise to learn that Mr. Trump is loud even with the sound off. He delivered 90 minutes of increasingly exaggerated pantomime, announcing the presence of someone who is restless, impassioned, emphatic and at times belligerent. (“No idea what he’s talking about, but he’s def going at it hard,” read my notes from the   mark.) Do not call this man  . He has an extensive repertoire of almost manic hand and arm gestures: the   karate chop, the accordion, his patented cobra. The performance is so physical  —   with the pincer fingers, the hyperactive eyebrows, the “C’mon already!” shrugs  —   that there’s not much work left for the words to do. There is no ambiguity about the message: Actions speak louder than words. Also: Bring it on. Even when it was Mrs. Clinton’s turn to speak, Mr. Trump couldn’t stand still. He fidgeted. He smirked. He grimaced. He squinted. He adjusted his microphone. He grabbed hold of the sides of his lectern. He rocked back and forth on his heels. He pursed his lips. He threw his opponent a disbelieving sidelong glance, and then an eye roll. He shook his head. He appeared to interrupt her, repeatedly. (On one occasion, I could make out a word  —   a word!  —   “wrong. ”) He took a sip of water. And then another, licking his lips as he set the glass back down. He’s more expressive while listening than most people are while speaking. In the face of this continual turbulence, Mrs. Clinton had a studied serenity. She has made no secret of her assiduous debate preparation, and I couldn’t help feeling that she had prepared for the very exercise I was engaged in. She seemed determined to make sure that her body language and facial expressions didn’t communicate frustration or irritation  —   see Al Gore in 2000  —   no matter what her opponent said. And she seemed equally determined to appear to be having fun. Whether she was or not  —   could this possibly be fun?  —   she succeeded in looking the part. She appeared unbothered, even amused, by Mr. Trump’s apparent assaults. At times, she looked a little smug  —   surely a lot smug to Mr. Trump’s supporters. There was plenty of smiling  —   another product of the debate prep, no doubt  —   and laughing, too, presumably at Mr. Trump’s expense. The suggestion seemed to be that we were all in on the joke. She had her hand gestures, as well, including her version of the trademark “Clinton thumb,” but she did little in the way of violence to the air around her. Visually, anyway, there was a discernible arc to the event, with Mr. Trump growing more agitated as the night wore on, and Mrs. Clinton becoming almost giddy with what felt increasingly like genuine pleasure. Which brings us back to the shimmy. Absent words, it felt like the most telling moment of the evening, a memorable, instinctive reaction to what I imagined must have been a Trump howler. In that instant, it was clear that the debate had produced a winner, at least to those of us who hadn’t actually heard a word of what the candidates had said: Mrs. Clinton. He had vibrated with anxiety she had radiated cool confidence. He had seemed to be crawling out of his own skin she had looked uncharacteristically comfortable in hers. Minutes later, it was all over. Once again, the candidates came together. Once again, Mr. Trump put his hand on Mrs. Clinton’s back, this time with a little pat, as if to confer his approval on a job well done. Mr. Trump’s family came out to greet him, but they opted not to linger, exiting   while Mrs. Clinton and her husband celebrated the moment with their fans in the audience.