 (CNN) Living under ISIS. Selling Girl Scout cookies. And giving some lip    like Kylie Jenner.  These are the best videos of the week. 1. The ISIS society, In the West, ISIS is widely known for its terrorist actions. But for some communities, the group is the local governing authority, picking up garbage and directing traffic. CNN’s Atika Shubert explains how ISIS functions as a state. The video is at the top of this story. 2. Should Girl Scouts stop selling cookies? It’s an annual tradition: Girl Scouts sell cookies    and, in the millions, we buy them. But is this the best way for them to raise money? CNN’s Richard Roth asks about a sweet tradition that’s leaving some with a bitter taste.  Watch the video: 3. Pot, meet pop, The use of marijuana has long been a source of controversy, but on movies and TV shows, it’s also long been a source of humor. CNN’s Lisa France has a blunt look at the herb in pop culture. Watch the video: 4. Two degrees of separation    from disaster? Many climate scientists believe that an increase of 2 degrees Celsius in the global average temperature could be the tipping point for climate change. CNN’s John D. Sutter takes a measure. Watch the video: 5. A genuinely scary ’Blob’ Back in the ’50s, ”The Blob” was a      film. Today, it’s reality, as ”blobs” of warm water in the Pacific Ocean may be having an impact on storms and marine life. CNN’s Jennifer Gray takes a look. Watch the video: 6. A   Kermit? A newly discovered frog has a distinct resemblance to a certain ”Not Easy Being Green” Muppet, Kermit the Frog. Kermit himself noted the similarities. So what is this amphibian? Watch the video: 7. Giving some lip, In another attempt to keep up with the Kardashians, some children and teens are using suction to make their lips look just like Kyle Jenner’s. The #KylieJennerChallenge hasn’t escaped notice. Watch the video: 8. Cold shoulder, ”Iron Man” Robert Downey Jr. was distinctly flinty when dealing with the questions of a British interviewer. He finally walked out    and he hasn’t been the only one to decide to take off his microphone. Watch the video: 9. Drones on the water, You’ve heard of drones in the air. Now the Pentagon is working on drones at sea    and they could be valuable tools in tracking enemy ships. Watch the video: 10. When can police shoot?  Recent incidents have brought attention to the question of when police are allowed to use deadly force. CNN legal analyst Sunny Hostin looks at the laws for law enforcement. Watch the video:   11. Youth and the first lady, Michelle Obama is 51 years old    but she certainly doesn’t look it, particularly in the eyes of one youngster. Watch the video: