 (CNN) If you think networks like Fox, ABC and CBS are driving a superhero trend on TV, they’ve got nothing on the CW.  (The CW is owned in part by Time Warner, CNN’s parent company). The fifth network is quite confident about its new fall schedule, and much of that has to do with the ”Fastest Man Alive,” thanks to his  . Here are five things we’ve learned about the CW’s new fall schedule: 1. Superheroes, superheroes everywhere. With the success of ”The Flash” (the network’s   show ever) it’s no wonder the CW ordered up a spinoff. ”Legends of Tomorrow” will star Brandon Routh and other supporting characters from the various superhero shows on the CW, along with new cast members like ”Doctor Who’s” Arthur Darvill. The series arrives in 2016. 2. More comedy in the vein of ’Jane.’ ”Jane the Virgin” is perhaps the most critically acclaimed show ever on the CW, with star Gina Rodriguez earning a Golden Globe, a first for the network. The CW is banking on a show with a similar vibe to lead off Mondays. ”Crazy ” about a young woman who leaves New York for the suburbs of California, was originally meant for Showtime. 3. The long life of ’Supernatural’  ”Supernatural” is now the     or horror series on television, heading into its 11th season. CW President Mark Pedowitz says there’s no end in sight.  As long as the ratings stay strong and the desire to do the show is there, they will keep picking it up, he said Thursday. (”The Vampire Diaries,” on the other hand, may struggle next season with the loss of Nina Dobrev.) 4. Is ’Constantine’ a   at CW? Rumors that NBC’s recently canceled comic book adaptation ”Constantine” might land on the CW are just that, said Pedowitz. He joked that there were rumors he might join the NBA, not offering fans much hope. Sounds like it’s time for the show’s devoted social media following to look toward cable or streaming. 5. The apocalypse theme continues. The CW already has zombies (”iZombie” was a hit this season) but the apocalypse is dead serious on the upcoming series ”Containment.” The show is shot in    and set in    Atlanta, where a deadly virus causes the city to be quarantined. (Shades of ”Under the Dome,” perhaps?) Here’s the full schedule, (all times  ) MONDAY,   p. m.  —   ”Crazy  ”   p. m.  —   ”Jane the Virgin” TUESDAY,   p. m.  —   ”The Flash”   p. m.  —   ”iZombie” WEDNESDAY,   p. m.  —   ”Arrow”   p. m.  —   ”Supernatural” THURSDAY,   p. m.  —   ”The Vampire Diaries”   p. m.  —   ”The Originals” FRIDAY,   p. m.  —   ”Reign”   p. m.  —   ”America’s Next Top Model” Midseason returning: ”The 100,” ”Beauty and the Beast,” ”Whose Line is it Anyway”