 (CNN) No, your eyes are not deceiving you. You are seeing a great deal of Amy Schumer. And come July 17, you will see even more of the risque comedic actress (literally) in her new film, ”Trainwreck.” Schumer    who is known for her smart, raunchy,    comedy    stars alongside ”SNL’s” Bill Hader and NBA star LeBron James as a   woman who is into her career and hooking up with guys more than she is into finding true love. Just call it the   romantic comedy. Naturally, with a film coming out, one would expect Schumer to be out and about promoting it, but she appears to be going above and beyond. She dropped in on a recent episode of ”The Bachelorette” to help some of the bachelors on a group date in which they had to perform standup comedy. There was no way to tell whether Schumer was joking when she claimed to be really into the reality show.  ”I love this show. I’m a fan of the show,” Schumer said. ”Kaitlyn’s (Bristowe) my favorite person that has ever been on the show, and I hope she finds love.”  Schumer’s appearance was so popular that there was a tweeted offer to be ”The Bachelorette” from a Twitter account under the name of Robert Mills. That’s the name of the senior vice president of alternative series, specials and   programming for ABC Entertainment. Schumer tweeted back, ”Here I come,” leading the #DraftAmy movement to declare victory. Not that Schumer doesn’t love the spotlight. In April, she caused a stir when she threw herself down on the red carpet in front of Kanye West and Kim Kardashian at the Time 100 gala in New York. Her Comedy Central series ”Inside Amy Schumer” is in its third season. On it, she’s been consistently pushing the envelope, taking on topics like rape culture    in a parody of the series ”Friday Night Lights”    to sexism in Hollywood    with an     of the film ”12 Angry Men” in which a room of male jurors debates whether she is hot enough to be on TV. In a recent episode, she ”defended” comedian Bill Cosby amid accusations of sexual assault. ”At this point, Bill Cosby probably can’t get in any legal trouble,” she says in the sketch. ”That’s not what this is about. ”This is about us not punishing ourselves for loving great comedy.” Schumer talked to Elle magazine last year about her newfound fame. ”People do recognize me on the street, but I have the same friends, and I go to the same restaurants,” she said. ”My publicists want to kill me because I dress like a newly homeless runaway.” 