Washington (CNN) The Republican National Committee believes it has accomplished its goal of restoring order to an unruly presidential debate season    even though some minor candidates may be excluded from the televised events. The RNC told its members and donors Monday that it did not intentionally try to oust some candidates from the debate stage, defending its process by giving Republican hopefuls two months to know what metrics they need to meet in order to win a spot on the stage. ”For anyone to suggest that any candidate is in or out at this point is ridiculous,” wrote Sean Spicer, the RNC’s chief strategist, in a memo provided to CNN by a Republican involved in the debate process.  RELATED: CNN announces details of GOP debate, ”With more than 60 days before the first debate, that’s like asking on Opening Day who’s going to make it to the World Series,” he said. After a grueling, ceaseless debate schedule in 2012 that wounded several Republican aspirants, party officials have looked to streamline things for 2016. The RNC has sanctioned nine primary debates from August through February. But the emerging challenge for top Republicans is how to manage the chaos of a Republican field that could include more than 15 contenders by the time Fox News hosts the first debate this summer.  Both Fox News and CNN, which will host the second debate, have unveiled plans to limit their   events to just the top ten finishers in national opinion polls. CNN will host a separate debate with   candidates. ”Both Fox and CNN, who will host the first two debates, have announced their criteria historically early,” Spicer wrote. ”The important thing is that candidates know what criteria they have to meet. More than anything, they want to know what it takes to get in, which is an important element in their ability to plan their campaign strategy. Spicer lauded the RNC for being able to ”assert itself” in the face of media outlets pushing for more and more forums. ”Remember: at this point in 2011, the 2012 primary debates had already begun,” Spicer said.