Moscow (CNN) Ever since the Cold   space race with the United States, Russia has taken immense national pride in its cosmic exploits. It was a Soviet satellite    Sputnik 1    that was the first, in 1957, to break out of Earth’s gravitational grip. 1960 witnessed the first living creatures make it into orbit and back again. Soviet space dogs, Belka and Strelka, are still widely celebrated for their achievement    although the memory of the grey rabbit, 42 mice, two rats, and numerous flies that accompanied them on their extraterrestrial journey has faded. The following year, in 1961, a Soviet cosmonaut pipped the Americans into space. Yuri Gagarin became a household name and a potent symbol of what the Kremlin would have seen as Communist superiority over the West. But in recent years that confidence has been challenged by a catalogue of embarrassing setbacks. In April, Russian ground staff lost control of an unmanned cargo spacecraft on a supply mission to the International Space Station. Contact was never   with the $30 million Progress 59 freighter, which was sent spinning at terrific speeds before burning up over the Pacific Ocean. Last month, another Russian rocket mission, this time carrying a Mexican satellite, went wrong minutes after launch from the Baikonor Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. It crashed in Siberia, raising more questions about the reliability of Russia’s space program. Some commercial satellite operators have already started to take their business elsewhere. Battered reputation  For decades, Russia has been a byword for reliability in space technology. Solid,   equipment has been the mainstay of space exploration. But recently, the reputation has taken a severe battering. And not just in space, but on the ground as well. READ: $1. 8B disappears in Russian space program  There’s the case of the Vostochny Cosmodrome in the Russian Far East    a new   launch site. It’s the country’s biggest construction project, costing nearly $6 billion and designed to blast Russia’s space program into the 21st century. But it’s mired in scandal. There have been numerous   corruption probes into missing funds.  And there has even been a hunger strike by unpaid workers. One of the disgruntled workers was permitted to personally ask the Russian President to intervene in the dispute, during a nationally televised   event earlier this year. Vladimir Putin assured him and the country, that the problems would be ironed out. ”We’ll take it under our double control, you on the site and I here from Moscow,” he said. ”All the   in the construction and pay delays are absolutely inadmissible and will certainly not be tolerated.” But analysts of the Russian space program say the real problem goes far deeper than a few construction holdups. Funding for space exploration has been slashed. But it’s the prestige    not the financing    of the old Soviet program that is missed most. Lack of ambition, Unlike the Soviet program, critics say Russia’s space industry lacks ambition. There are no trips to Mars on the horizon, no exploration of deep space planned. And unless that changes, the Best of the Best    the scientists and the engineers    may choose to stay away, and Russia’s dream of reviving the glories of its   past may never truly blast off.