Three physicists born in Britain but now working in the United States were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics on Tuesday for research into the bizarre properties of matter in extreme states, including superconductors, superfluids and thin magnetic films. David J. Thouless of the University of Washington was awarded half of the prize of 8 million Swedish kronor, or about $930, 000, while F. Duncan M. Haldane of Princeton University and J. Michael Kosterlitz of Brown University shared the other half. The scientists relied on advanced mathematical models to study “theoretical discoveries of topological phase transitions and topological phases of matter,” in the words of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm. Their studies may have major applications in electronics, materials science and computing. In an email, Michael S. Turner, a physicist at the University of Chicago, described the work as “truly transformational, with   consequences both practical and fundamental. ” The three laureates sought to understand matter that is so cold or so thin that weird quantum effects overpower the random atomic jostling that dominates ordinary existence. Superconductivity, in which all electrical resistance vanishes in matter, is one example of such an effect. Dr. Thouless and Dr. Kosterlitz worked together at the University of Birmingham in the 1970s to investigate what happens when   films of matter shift from one exotic phase, like superconductivity, to another. The key to their success was something called topology, a branch of mathematics focused on the fundamental shapes of things. At the Nobel news conference in Stockholm, Thors Hans Hansson, a member of the Nobel physics committee, tried to illustrate topology by holding up a cinnamon bun, a bagel and a pretzel. To a topologist, he said, the only difference between them is the number of holes, as opposed to the characteristics an average person might notice, like saltiness or sweetness. There is no such thing as half a hole, the topologist would note, and the number of holes only changes stepwise in integers. Likewise, the macroscopic properties of exotic matter change in stepwise “quantum leaps” if the materials involved are thin or small enough that their behavior is determined by the strange rules that govern the behavior of atoms. An example is the quantum Hall effect, in which the electrical resistance of a thin film changes in stepwise fashion. In 1983, Dr. Thouless was able to link these changes mathematically to the   Chern numbers  —   after the mathematician   Chern  —   that characterize topological shapes. Dr. Haldane used a similar technique to analyze the properties of chains of atoms so skinny that they could be considered   threads. Someday, they may be the basis of a new kind of computer. In the last decade, this work has led to the development of materials called topological insulators, which conduct electricity on their surfaces but not inside. “They have ignited a firestorm of research, and although applications are still yet to come, I believe it’s only a matter of time before their research leads to advances as unimaginable to us now as lasers and computer chips were a hundred years ago,” said Laura H. Greene,   of the American Physical Society. Dr. Thouless, 82, was born in Bearsden, Scotland, was an undergraduate at Cambridge University and received a Ph. D. in 1958 from Cornell. From 1965 to 1978, he taught mathematical physics at the University of Birmingham in England, where he collaborated with Dr. Kosterlitz. In 1980, he joined the University of Washington in Seattle, where he is now an emeritus professor. Dr. Haldane, 65, was born in London. He received his Ph. D. from Cambridge, where he was also an undergraduate, in 1978. He worked at the Institut   in Grenoble, France the University of Southern California Bell Laboratories and the University of California, San Diego, before joining the Princeton faculty in 1990. Dr. Kosterlitz, 73, was born in Aberdeen, Scotland, and received his doctorate in   physics from Oxford University in 1969. He has worked at the University of Birmingham the Institute of Theoretical Physics in Turin, Italy and Cornell, Princeton, Bell Laboratories and Harvard. “I was very surprised and very gratified,” Dr. Haldane, whom the Nobel committee reached by phone Tuesday morning, told reporters at the news conference in Stockholm. “The work was a long time ago, but it’s only now that a lot of tremendous new discoveries are based on this original work and have extended it. ” Dr. Kosterlitz told The Associated Press that he had gotten the news while heading to lunch in Helsinki, Finland, where he is a visiting professor at Aalto University. “I’m a little bit dazzled,” he said. “I’m still trying to take it in. ” He said that he was in his 20s when he began studying   materials and that his “complete ignorance” was an advantage in challenging the established science. “I didn’t have any preconceived ideas,” he said. “I was young and stupid enough to take it on. ” Yoshinori Ohsumi, a Japanese cell biologist, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine on Monday for his discoveries on how cells recycle their content, a process known as autophagy, a Greek term for “ . ” Takaaki Kajita and Arthur B. McDonald were named   last year for discovering that the enigmatic subatomic particles known as neutrinos have mass. Four more will be awarded in the coming days: ■ The Nobel Prize in Chemistry will be announced on Wednesday in Sweden. Read about last year’s winners, Tomas Lindahl, Paul L. Modrich and Aziz Sancar. ■ The Nobel Peace Prize will be announced on Friday in Norway. Read about last year’s winner, the National Dialogue Quartet of Tunisia. ■ The Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science will be announced on Monday, Oct. 10, in Sweden. Read about last year’s winner, Angus Deaton. ■ The Nobel Prize in Literature will be announced on Thursday, Oct. 13, in Sweden. Read about last year’s winner, Svetlana Alexievich.