KABUL, Afghanistan  —   Afghan officials said on Tuesday that their commando forces had reclaimed the main city square in Kunduz from the Taliban and were making gains elsewhere in the vital provincial capital, where the insurgents overran central neighborhoods on Monday. Residents and local police officers reached by telephone said that clashes were continuing, with the insurgents focusing on the police headquarters and the governor’s compound. Ahmad Javed Salim, a spokesman for the Afghan Army special forces in Kunduz, said a small team of American forces was on the ground near the governor’s compound to guide airstrikes if necessary. “They are not fighting the Taliban they are here to manage the air support,” Mr. Salim said. “We asked the United States forces for air support, and now we and the U. S. forces are in the planning stage. ” Brig. Gen. Charles H. Cleveland, a spokesman for the United States forces in Afghanistan, said he could not provide details on “the current disposition of enabler and train, advise and assist forces” because the operation was still underway. General Cleveland said the American forces had not carried out airstrikes directly on the city but “had one    engagement via a helicopter this morning in the west of the city,” adding that the helicopter dropped off Afghan forces to join the fight. Asadullah Omarkhel, the governor of Kunduz Province, said the military’s clearance operations would continue until the city and its surroundings were free of insurgents. “The armed opposition are using people’s homes as shields, and that is why our clearance operations are slow, to make sure civilians are not harmed,” he said. But Amruddin Wali, a member of the provincial council, said local officials were exaggerating their successes and accused them of deceiving the Afghan people and the central government. “It’s not the home of the police chief, or the army division commander, or the zone commander that is burning,” Mr. Wali said. “It’s the ordinary people’s homes and lives that are ruined, and the officials are continuing with their lies. ” Mr. Wali said the government controlled the area between Kunduz’s airport and the main city square, where it had parked armored vehicles. But, he said, “You can’t go past the main square without armored vehicles. ” The coordinated Taliban attack on Kunduz, about a year after the city was briefly taken by the insurgents, began from four directions before dawn on Monday. Alarm began to spread as the Taliban reached the main square, posting updates of their progress on social media. While insurgent fighters infiltrated large parts of the city, the government managed to hold on to its main administrative and security buildings. Stern warnings were issued to members of the Afghan forces not to abandon their posts, as many have done in past assaults. Civilians, once again, were bearing the brunt of the fighting, with the roads out of the city closed off by Taliban checkpoints. And though the Taliban’s main focus seemed to remain on Kunduz, the closing of the roads had residents in neighboring Baghlan Province also worried. While exact casualty figures from the Kunduz battle were not available, with residents taking their wounded to different health centers across the city, at least 151 were wounded and one was killed, according to Abdul Hami Alam, the provincial health director. Massoud Payez, who lives near the headquarters of the police in the city center, said that his neighborhood was still on lockdown and that movement in the city was limited. “We can’t leave our homes. The shops and bakeries are closed,” Mr. Payez said. “The police are firing from the towers of their headquarters, and the commandos are also firing from one side. And the Taliban are at the other end of the street. ” Shafi Zakhil, the police commander for the second precinct, where the governor’s office is, said that the area was the front line and that United States forces were helping defend the governor’s compound. “I am in Fatema Zahra School, which is in front of the governor’s office, and it is the front line,” he said. “U. S. forces are around the governor’s office and the police headquarters with their tanks. Taliban are on top of a building near the governor’s office and police headquarters. ” Qand Agha, an officer inside the police headquarters, said that the Taliban had mounted 11 attacks on the building since Monday night but that they were pushed back by the police each time. American military officials say they are determined to prevent major cities from falling the way Kunduz did last year. But the fallout from an American warplane’s deadly barrage on the Doctors Without Borders hospital in Kunduz during efforts to retake the city last October hangs over any decision to have American forces directly enter the fighting. At least 42 people were killed in that continuous series of airstrikes, which the Doctors Without Borders called a war crime. The timing of the latest assault on Kunduz seemed aimed at embarrassing the leaders of the Afghan coalition government, who are in Brussels to ask for continued financial support at a conference attended by dozens of world leaders. The governments represented at the conference are expected to pledge more than $3 billion in annual development aid over the next four years, in addition to the funds spent by NATO and the United States in covering much of the expenses of the Afghan security forces. In the southern province of Helmand, Afghan officials said their forces were trying to push back the Taliban from Nawa district, the fall of which to the Taliban has added pressure on the   provincial capital city, Lashkar Gah. The insurgents basically overran the entire district on Sunday night, killing the district’s police chief. On Tuesday afternoon, there was conflicting information about whether the district governor’s compound was controlled by the Afghan forces or the Taliban. Aqa Muhammad Takra, the district governor who was in Lashkar Gah, said Afghan Army forces were still holed up in the district governor’s compound, which was surrounded by the Taliban. Additional Afghan forces had arrived to try to break the siege, and they managed to recover the police chief’s body from the police headquarters, he said.