 (CNN) Those escaped convicts may be headed to Vermont. An American dies fighting ISIS in Syria. And maybe one day soon, you can get the Internet from outer space. It’s Thursday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.    NEW YORK PRISON ESCAPE, Search continues: Are the New York escapees headed to Vermont? Authorities believe they could be, hoping to evade the intense manhunt for them that’s covered upstate New York. Vermont police vessels and state troopers will conduct patrols on Lake Champlain, which sits on the New   border, and New York state troopers will be allowed into Vermont if needed. The search for Richard Matt and David Sweat now involves more than 400 officers.   ISIS, American killed: Keith Broomfield, an American citizen, was killed in Syria fighting ISIS. Broomfield was fighting alongside the Kurds. Not much more is known at this time about him, including how he died, how long he had been in the region as a fighter and just how he became a fighter.   D. C. MANSION KILLINGS, More evidence: We knew the slayings last month of a prominent Washington family and their housekeeper were gruesome, and newly unsealed court documents    a search warrant and accompanying affidavit    illustrate just how bad it was. A bloody baseball bat was found in the room where three of the bodies were found. Some of the victims suffered trauma to the head   lacerations to the throat and head.    BALTIMORE  Police talk: The city is suffering through one of the most violent periods in its history, and a pair of cops admit the police are standing by and letting it happen. The officers, who talked to CNN anonymously, said police feel abandoned by the city’s leadership and are afraid of being charged criminally for simply doing their jobs. So they are no longer aggressively pursuing the bad guys. After the interview aired, Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony Batts urged them to think of the citizens and ”remember why you do this job.”     INTERNET, Web wonder: Want to get the Internet from space? It’s a step closer to reality, now that Elon Musk has asked the government for permission to start testing his idea for getting Web service from beyond the clouds. Musk will launch eight prototype satellites, each quipped with antennas that will send Internet signals back to Earth. The FCC is reviewing the proposal Musk would like to start testing next year.