Marshalltown, Iowa  (CNN) Sen. Bernie Sanders said Saturday he has no intention of shying away from pointing out differences with Hillary Clinton, particularly on who is best suited to reduce income inequality and wage a fight for the middle class. ”I suspect we’re going to be in disagreement very often,” the Vermont politician told CNN in an interview here. ”That’s what campaigns are about. Let the American people judge.”  As Clinton arrived in Iowa after delivering her first major speech of the 2016 presidential campaign, Sanders was holding court with Democratic activists across the state who will play a key role in the Iowa caucuses early next year. Sanders said her speech ”touched on some of the important issues facing this country,” but he added: ”The devil is in the details.” He said Clinton would need to convince Democrats that she is capable of ”taking on the billionaire class.” He called out Clinton for not mentioning trade during her speech Saturday in New York. ”You just can’t run away from the issue. It’s too big of an issue,” Sanders told CNN. ”It’s just hard for me to understand how you cannot have an opinion on an issue of such consequence.” The   Partnership, a proposed trade deal with the United States and 11 other countries, is dividing the Democratic Party. Democrats in the House rejected the measure on Friday, which is one of President Barack Obama’s chief priorities. Clinton has raised questions about the trade agreement, which she once supported, but has not taken a firm stance. Sanders is among the liberals opposed to the agreement, arguing the deal will harm American workers. He stopped just short of taunting Clinton for her caution. ”This is not a time for safe political positions,” Sanders said. ”We need bold leadership. We truly need a mass movement in this country, which says ’enough is enough. ’” Sanders, who refers to himself as a Democratic socialist, is waging an uphill fight for the party’s presidential nomination. But his message is resonating in Iowa and beyond, drawing hundreds of people to his campaign events.  He said that he would not attack Clinton’s character or credibility, but he would not hesitate to aggressively challenge her on issues.  ”Serious campaigns are not about reckless accusations, character assassinations or personal attacks, they are about the issues,” Sanders said. ”We’ll certainly be challenging her on a number of positions.”