 (CNN) The trail for those prison escapees has grown cold. Rachel Dolezal is still in hot water. And Team USA is in action again tonight. It’s Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.    NEW YORK PRISON BREAK, Cold trail: Authorities searching for Richard Matt and David Sweat don’t have a clue as to where they are. That’s pretty much what New York’s governor and a county sheriff have said the past couple of days. No new clues have turned up since last week, when hundreds of law enforcement officials began scouring upstate New York’s heavily wooded areas searching for the convicted killers.    RACHEL DOLEZAL, Not over yet: Rachel Dolezal’s resignation yesterday did nothing to quell the racial storm surrounding her. In her statement where she stepped down as president of the Spokane, Washington, chapter of the NAACP, she didn’t apologize nor address the allegations that she’s been pretending to be a black woman for years. But more answers from Dolezal may be forthcoming: She’s set to appear on a network TV morning show later today.   TROPICAL STORM, No more: Texans just can’t catch a break. The ground is still saturated from the Memorial Day floods and now the state is getting hit with a tropical storm. This morning Tropical Storm Bill is expected to hit the Texas Gulf Coast. It won’t be the most powerful storm, but the 4 to 12 inches of rain it will bring to the state simply isn’t wanted. Residents are slamming grocery and hardware stores, preparing for the worst.    TRICKLE DOWN ECONOMICS  Money matters: It doesn’t work. That’s what the International Monetary Fund says about the theory (popular with conservatives) that wealth ”trickles down” from the rich to the poor. The IMF study    which analyzed more than 150 countries    says the economy actually slows down when society’s top earners make more money. The new report called income inequality ”the defining challenge of our time.”   WOMEN’S WORLD CUP, Sittin’ pretty: Team USA finds itself in a good spot    unbeaten    after two matches. If the ladies can beat Nigeria in the next match    not an easy task, with a serious attacking threat from two young Nigerian forwards to contend with    they win Group D or probably get second place with a draw. The next match, in Vancouver, is set for tonight at 8 ET.   Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing. When dinos attack: ”Jurassic World” star Chris Pratt gets the scare of a lifetime. Big time basketball: Let’s make a   shot from atop a dam. Sure, why not. Robot fail: Robot falls while trying to give dog a pop tart.  What the. ..?: These two men clearly have no idea how to play Frisbee.