A New Jersey Transit train that crashed in Hoboken last week accelerated to about 21 miles per hour just before it smashed into the terminal, killing a woman and injuring more than 100 other people, federal investigators said on Thursday. In the minute before the crash, the train had been moving toward the platform at just eight miles per hour, the National Transportation Safety Board said. The engineer had blown the train’s horn and activated the bell that signals its approach before suddenly accelerating, braking only at the last second before the train plowed through a bumper and onto the platform. The federal agency is still investigating the accident and has not determined a cause, officials said. But the new details from an event recorder recovered from the train provided the clearest picture yet of what happened leading up to the crash. Shortly after the crash, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey said the train appeared to be speeding into the station. The speed limit for trains entering the busy station is 10 m. p. h. On the morning of Sept. 29, the crowded train hurtled into Hoboken Terminal, causing part of the roof to collapse onto the train. Investigators have interviewed the train’s engineer, Thomas Gallagher, 48, who told them he did not remember the accident and woke up on the floor of the cab after the train had stopped. Mr. Gallagher told investigators that the train was traveling about 10 m. p. h. as it entered the station. He reported that he felt well rested and that his cellphone was turned off and stored in a personal backpack. On Wednesday, New Jersey Transit issued new rules requiring a second crew member to join the train engineer in the operating cab when entering stations in Hoboken and Atlantic City. The measure was aimed at providing a second set of eyes and ears during the final segment of trips into those stations. Train service at Hoboken Terminal has been suspended since the crash. New Jersey Transit has not said when trains will start traveling there again. James E. Hall, a former chairman of the safety board, said the event recorder information showed the engineer had accelerated the train before the crash, but it did not explain why. “What it doesn’t answer is: If there were those movements by the operator of the throttle, were they accidental or intentional?” he said. Mr. Hall praised the railroad’s decision to place a conductor next to the train’s engineer to serve as a backup. But he also urged the railroad to install an automatic braking system to prevent future accidents. “It’s unimportant whether it was human error or accidental,” Mr. Hall said. “There are technologies to prevent the train from accelerating. ” The National Transportation Safety Board has long pushed for railroads to implement a technology known as positive train control, which can automatically stop or slow a train. Investigators said they did not know whether the technology would have prevented the crash in Hoboken.