 (The Hollywood Reporter) NBC is closing the book on ”Hannibal.” The network has canceled Bryan Fuller’s ”Silence of the Lambs” prequel series after three seasons. The full   third season will run its course on Thursdays at 10 p. m. concluding Sept. 3. ”NBC has allowed us to craft a television series that no other broadcast network would have dared, and kept us on the air for three seasons despite Cancelation Bear Chow ratings and images that would have shredded the eyeballs of lesser Standards  Practices enforcers,” Fuller said in a statement. ”[NBC Entertainment exec] Jen Salke and her team have been fantastic partners and creatively supportive beyond measure. ’Hannibal’ is finishing his last course at NBC’s table this summer, but a hungry cannibal can always dine again. And personally, I look forward to my next meal with NBC.” See more: TV shows that failed to survive the   season, Added NBC in a statement: ”We have been tremendously proud of ’Hannibal’ over its three seasons. Bryan and his team of writers and producers, as well as our incredible actors, have brought a visual palette of storytelling that has been second to none in all of television  —   broadcast or cable. We thank [producers] Gaumont and everyone involved in the show for their tireless efforts that have made Hannibal an incredible experience for audiences around the world.” The drama starring Hugh Dancy and Mads Mikkelsen returned June 4 with 2. 57 million total viewers before slipping to a series low the following week when only 1. 66 million tuned in against competition from the NBA Finals. The series has been a hit with critics, who praised Fuller (”Pushing Daisies,” ”Wonderfalls”) for pushing the boundaries of broadcast television with the show’s graphic and visually creative deaths.  Read more: NBC sets fall premiere dates, gives Neil Patrick Harris variety show early bow, Hannibal had been one of NBC’s    bridge series as more broadcasters continued to program originals  . NBC thus far has focused on imports and   to fill its summer roster, while other networks like CBS focus on pricey   fare a la ”Under the Dome” and the upcoming ”Zoo.” Read more: Keep up with what’s new, renewed and canceled with THR’s handy Scorecard. Fuller, meanwhile, has already lined up his next gig. Starz recently greenlit Neil Gaiman adaptation ”American Gods” to series with Fuller serving as a   on the urban fantasy novel that was previously in development at HBO. The move to cancel ”Hannibal” ends Fuller’s relationship with NBC, where he previously produced a reboot of ”The Munsters,” whose pricey series pilot ultimately aired as a Halloween movie after the project was scrapped.