Amid a presidential campaign marked by fears about the country’s economic future, the American jobs machine keeps chugging. Employers added 156, 000 positions in September, the Labor Department said on Friday, enough to accommodate new entrants to the labor force and entice back workers who dropped out after the Great Recession. The unemployment rate, which had been stuck at 4. 9 percent since spring, ticked up slightly to 5 percent, but that was mostly because more people were drawn into the labor force by evidence that hiring is still going strong. For all the anxiety at home and turmoil abroad, like the vote in Britain to withdraw from the European Union, the current expansion shows little prospect of ending abruptly. Average hourly earnings rose by 0. 2 percentage point last month, bringing the wage gain over the last 12 months to 2. 6 percent, well above the pace of inflation. The typical workweek also grew slightly in September, after a pullback in August. “It was solid, not spectacular,” said Diane Swonk, an independent economist in Chicago. “The good news is that participation went up, even though the unemployment rate did, too. Regaining that ground is very important. ” Before the report was released, economists on Wall Street looked for the economy to add 172, 000 jobs in September. Revisions for July and August showed that 7, 000 fewer jobs were created in those months than the Labor Department first estimated. Given the latest figures, the Federal Reserve is still expected to delay raising interest rates until late this year, and there was little in the report to suggest that the job gains might lead to significantly higher inflation. “There are still plenty of unemployed people out there, enough for employers to continue to hire at a substantial pace,” said Michael Gapen, chief United States economist at Barclays. “The expansion will end before you run out of labor,” added Mr. Gapen, who estimates that the unemployment rate could drop to 4 percent by the end of 2017. The overall participation rate inched up to 62. 9 percent, above the low point of 62. 4 percent last September, but well below the most recent peak of 66. 4 percent in early 2007. With many   workers still available to be hired  —   what economists and policy makers at the Federal Reserve blandly term “labor market slack”  —   the current pace of hiring should be able to continue with little threat of overheating the economy. Moreover, the labor force itself jumped by nearly half a million, a bright spot in an otherwise steady picture of the economy. The nation has added an average of 178, 000 jobs a month this year, less robust than the average monthly gain of 229, 000 in 2015 but still a healthy reading given the longevity of the recovery and the slowdown in population growth among adults of working age. Mr. Gapen attributed most of September’s dip in job creation, which was below the consensus forecast and the annual average, to an unexpected 11, 000 drop in government payrolls. The public sector added more than 50, 000 positions in July and August, and Mr. Gapen said the private sector’s relative strength was what counted, not a slowdown in government hiring. “It’s not a negative signal,” he said. “We see the miss as mainly a   government issue. ” Despite the robust hiring in the last couple of years, tens of millions of workers have barely felt the benefits of the recovery, and notable pockets of economic weakness remain more than seven years after it began. Those two contrasting realities  —   healthy hiring and falling unemployment on the one hand, millions of economically sidelined Americans on the other  —   sustain the narrative of the two main presidential candidates, Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump. Both candidates’ critiques of the economy contain kernels of truth. Friday’s report, while generally strong, contained fodder for both. The jump in participation, and healthy gains in   professional services fields, bolster Mrs. Clinton’s case that the economy is growing steadily and creating   jobs. The drop in manufacturing jobs by 13, 000 will underscore fears among   voters that their livelihoods are imperiled, a main factor in Mr. Trump’s appeal. In addition to strong gains in services, the closely watched construction industry added 23, 000 jobs. The housing market has been booming in many parts of the country, and like manufacturing, construction remains an important source of   jobs for workers with just high school diplomas. “I’m heartened to see that we have an unmistakable trend toward   jobs,” said Labor Secretary Thomas E. Perez. “I know there’s a doom and gloom caucus out there, but they’re on a collision course with the facts. ” Another encouraging development was a slowdown in the huge round of job cuts in the mining and logging industries prompted by falling prices for oil and other commodities. After falling for 23 consecutive months, with 223, 000 jobs slashed during that time, employment in the sector was flat last month. “Instead of declining, jobs may start coming back to the sector,” Ms. Swonk said, noting that the recent rebound in oil prices may spur new investment in exploration and drilling after a   drought. Although Wall Street watches every jobs report, this one drew less attention because the Federal Reserve is not expected to raise rates until December at the earliest. The Fed will meet in November, but it is not expected to raise rates so close to the election. Moreover, waiting until December to decide whether to tighten monetary policy would allow policy makers to consider the October and November jobs reports. Mr. Gapen said December remained the most likely target for the Fed’s next interest rate increase, but he added that it was hardly certain. “We think there’s a 60 percent chance the Fed will act, or slightly better than even,” he said. “There is a little something for everyone in this report from a   perspective. ” The 2. 6 percent increase in wages in the last 12 months is better than the 2. 3 percent annual increase in 2015, but it is still less than many   workers would hope to see at this point in the recovery. Still, there are plenty of signs the tighter labor market is finally paying off and producing raises, for workers at both the bottom and the top of the pay scale. This trend may also indicate that minimum wage increases in many states are beginning to filter through the broader economy. As the more modest gain in payrolls for September suggests, some big employers have slowed the pace of recruiting slightly, but they continue to add to payrolls. Ernst  Young, the giant accounting and consulting firm, plans to hire 15, 200 people in the United States in the 2017 fiscal year, which began July 1. In the 2016 fiscal year, Ernst  Young hired 16, 375 people, said Dan Black, Ernst  Young Americas recruiting leader. “It’s not a     moment,” he said. “It’s more of a    scenario. ”