 (CNN) Quasi Modo, a     dog from Florida, was named the world’s ugliest dog Friday for epitomizing ”excellence in ugliness.”  The    pit   shepherd mix won the dubious title from a pool of 27 underdogs at the annual World’s Ugliest Dog contest at the   Fair in Petaluma, California. The judges score the dogs on first impressions, unusual attributes, natural ugliness, personality and audience impression, according to the event’s website. ”We aren’t interested in lineage it’s the inner beauty and personality that shine in our World’s Ugliest Dog contest,” said Karen Spencer, marketing director for   Fair, which organizes the event.  The first   was Sweepee Rambo, a Chinese crested Chihuahua, who takes pride in her soft freckled skin and blond mohawk. The second   was Frodo, a    Chinese crested   mix from Sparks, Nevada, who loves to be bossy, according to his official bio. Because many of the homely hounds, including this year’s ugliest, come from shelters and puppy mills, the contest aims to encourage adoption of dogs regardless of their physical shortcomings. Quasi Modo’s owner found her at an animal shelter, according to her biography on the contest’s website.  ”Luckily, one of the veterinarians there saw the sparkle in my eyes and took me home,” the bio says.  She has multiple birth defects to her spine, and her back is too short for the rest of her body.  ”In spite of this I still run, play and enjoy life to the fullest.”   have mistaken her for a hyena or Tasmanian devil and jumped on their cars to get away, ”but once they get to know me I win them over with my bubbly personality,” the bio says. ”I have become a great ambassador for teaching people about acceptance and tolerance for things that are different. You should never judge a book by its cover! Just because an animal or person looks different doesn’t mean they’re any less deserving of love.” This was her second year in the contest after her debut in 2014, when her owners brought her to the contest during their honeymoon.  The Spirit Award was presented to Precious, an    Chihuahua from Petaluma, for visiting disabled veterans with her owner.  ”My mom is a disabled veteran and gives of her time volunteering also. She says there is no ’I’ in team, we believe in team spirit and teamwork. She and I love to help others who are down and out no matter what the cause or economic status,” Precious says in her bio.  Precious has a ”sight issue” from the vet putting wrong drops in her eye as a puppy, according to her bio. She loves long walks on the beach at sunset, rides in the car with the wind in her face, picnics, table scraps (even though she gets a balanced diet) doggy treats and rides in her stroller.  ”I’m living my life with purpose and love.”