Updated, 11:04 a. m. Good morning on this    Monday. A collision involving two Long Island Rail Road Trains on Saturday  injured 33 people. There is still limited westbound service and riders should expect delays. Fourteen trains have been canceled. Partial rail service is scheduled to resume in Hoboken, with a portion of the terminal planned to reopen this morning after a crash there last month. Kenneth P. Thompson became Brooklyn’s first black district attorney when he was elected three years ago. His family announced Sunday night that he had died from cancer at age 50, and shocked reactions and condolences came in throughout the evening. “Our courtrooms and our communities have no doubt been dealt a blow with Ken’s passing,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said in a joint statement with his wife, Chirlane McCray, “but I am confident the indelible mark left by his public service will forever be a part of the fabric of our justice system. ” Mr. Thompson, a Democrat, was an advocate for reform and racial justice  —   particularly for minorities  —   as district attorney, and in previous roles as a federal prosecutor and as a private lawyer. He was known for “always doing what he believed was right, not just what was popular,” the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, said on Twitter. Mr. Thompson faced tremendous pressure during the prosecution of Peter Liang, a former police officer who was convicted of manslaughter for fatally shooting an unarmed man while on patrol at a Brooklyn housing project. Mr. Thompson had announced last week that he’d be taking sick leave. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio ordered flags to fly at   today. “Ken was a dedicated public servant who embodied the highest principles of the law,” Mr. Cuomo said, “and his grand presence will be sorely missed. ” Here’s what else is happening: An   Columbus Day is in the forecast. It will be sunny and windy with a high of 61, which is 5 degrees cooler than normal. Any shivering on your commute is care of Canada, said Pat Maloit, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service, because the cool winds are arriving from the north. Don’t forget to take a jacket to the parade. • A Brooklyn man is suing the federal government, and the outcome could affect the fate of millions of immigrants nationwide. [New York Times] • Two professions in Staten Island have had a close view of the damage heroin can wreak: florists and undertakers. [New York Times] • The president of City College resigned on Friday over her use of college funds for personal matters. [New York Times] • Here’s what happened at the hostile presidential debate Sunday night. [New York Times] • For the next six days, you can hunt black bears in New Jersey  —   as long as you have a permit. [CBS] • Here are the 50   companies in New York. [Crain’s] • Take a look at the plans for the $70 million Statue of Liberty museum. [The Guardian] • The Brooklyn Children’s Museum is expanding to Brooklyn Bridge Park. [NY1] • Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “A Neighborhood Changes, and People Keep Parking” • Scoreboard: Steelers junk Jets,  . Packers stuff Giants,  . • For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Monday Briefing. • Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio take part in the Columbus Day Parade, which will move up Fifth Avenue, from 44th to 72nd Street, beginning at 11:30 a. m. [Free] • Boo at the Zoo brings Halloween  —   with costumes, a hay maze, pumpkin carving and more  —   to the Bronx Zoo. Times and prices vary. [Tickets here] • Explore some of the city’s oldest temples on a walking tour beginning at Bialystoker Synagogue on the Lower East Side. 10:45 a. m. [$24, tickets here] • Take the family to make scarecrows at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. 1:30 p. m. to 5:30 p. m. [Prices vary] • Alternate between painting and body weight exercises at a   interval painting class at Tompkins Square Park in the East Village. 3:15 p. m. [$40, book here] • Are emojis words? Do you hate mispronunciations and abbreviations? Learn about the word wars around “proper English” at a Secret Science Club lecture, with the linguist John McWhorter, at Symphony Space on the Upper West Side. 8 p. m. [$25] L trains are running with delays. • Subway  and PATH  • Railroads: L. I. R. R.   N. J. Transit, Amtrak • Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s. •   parking: suspended for Columbus Day. • Ferries: Staten Island Ferry, New York Waterway, East River Ferry • Airports: La Guardia, J. F. K. Newark Long before this country held presidential elections  —   and before Christopher Columbus sailed the ocean blue  —   the Lenape tribe lived in what was then called Manahahtaan. Thousands of Native Americans live in the New York area, according to Cliff Matias, the director of the Redhawk Native American Arts Council. Among them: Quechuans in the Bronx and Jackson Heights, Queens Aztecs and Mayans in Sunset Park, Brooklyn and Mohawks in Bay Ridge. Outside the city, Shinnecock and Unkechaug live in communities on Long Island, and Ramapough are in New Jersey, Mr. Matias said. Several of New York’s organizations for indigenous people are gathering on Randalls Island today for the   Indigenous Peoples Celebration. The event is meant not only to honor the survival of indigenous traditions but also to raise awareness about the struggles  —   past and present  —   of those groups. “We use this day to celebrate everything that Christopher Columbus did not represent,” Mr. Matias said. The free event, open to the public, brings together indigenous artists, chiefs, medicine makers and others for performances of music, the spoken word and more. You can also learn about precolonial Manahahtaan and New York’s indigenous heritage at Lenapeway, a free exhibition that opens today at New York University. New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a. m. till late morning. You can receive it via email. For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook. What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes. com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.  Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter. You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday. com.