■ On the Tom Brady Revenge Tour there will be no such thing as “enough” offense. The Patriots quarterback, fresh off of a   suspension, threw for 406 yards and three touchdowns in a blowout win over the Browns but spent his postgame interview talking about how rusty he felt. ■ You never know what you’ll get with rookie quarterbacks. Some make the transition to the N. F. L. look easy (Dak Prescott of the Cowboys) some make mistakes that cost their team badly (Carson Wentz of the Eagles trying to air it out with a   yard heave that was intercepted by Detroit). Some can’t do enough to carry their defense (Paxton Lynch of the Broncos) and some can’t finish the game (Cody Kessler of the Browns, who left his team’s loss to the Patriots with a rib injury). ■ Guessing the last team to remain unbeaten can be tricky, and very few predicted the Vikings would open the season   playing without the team’s two most famous names (Peterson and Bridgewater). But with a defense that is almost impossible to pass against, Minnesota goes into the bye week with a legitimate claim as the hottest   best team in the N. F. L. ■ Whatever coach Rex Ryan said to his team after a Week 2 loss must have been impressive, because the Bills have won three straight games behind tremendous defense and a great running game. Ryan could not help gloating a bit, saying sarcastically “You guys know me, I’m just an average coach. I never win three straight games. ” Perhaps the most impressive part of the streak is that two of the three wins have been on the road. On the 321st snap of Dak Prescott’s rookie season, the young quarterback finally committed his first turnover. Luckily for the Dallas Cowboys, the team was off to a   start at the time of the fumble in what proved to be a   over the Cincinnati Bengals. Committing a breach of ball security was the exception that proves the rule for Prescott, who was drafted in the fourth round and has thus far done an incredible job filling in for the injured Tony Romo, showing a veteran’s ability to take chances while rarely taking unnecessary risks during the team’s   start to the season. Between his efficiency, and the   running game led by his fellow rookie, Ezekiel Elliott, there is little reason for Cowboys fans to hope Dez Bryant and Romo can come back soon, as the team is in good hands. The easy win proved to be a relatively modest day for Prescott, who completed 18 of 24 passes for 227 yards and 1 touchdown. Along the way he did manage to increase his rookie record for consecutive passes without an interception to 155. A big passing day by Prescott was not necessary as Elliott continued his assault on opposing defenses, taking advantage of the huge holes afforded him by the Cowboys’ dominant offensive line, rushing for 134 yards on 15 attempts, including a   touchdown run in which he was not touched. For good measure he even recovered an onside kick late in the fourth quarter to help preserve the win. Prescott, Elliott and the rest of the Cowboys will have a tough test next week on the road against the Green Bay Packers and then will have a bye week before a Week 8 matchup against Philadelphia that has been cited as potential return date for Romo. If Prescott can beat the Packers at Lambeau Field, there may be talk of a quarterback controversy. If today’s game is any indication, the Tom Brady Revenge Tour around the N. F. L. is going to be ugly for the opponents of the New England Patriots. Brady, having returned from a   suspension, was at his best against a terrible Cleveland Browns defense, completing 28 of 40 passes for 406 yards and three touchdowns. His 271 passing yards in the first half broke the franchise’s previous record of 264, and the Patriots won easily,  . At his postgame news conference, Brady seemed uninterested in discussing his suspension, saying it was not a time to reflect on things and that he had simply focused on being ready for the game. “It felt very much like a normal week for me once I got into it,” Brady said. “It was fun to come out and play and fun to win. ” Brady showed very little or no rust from the long layoff. He completed passes to seven different receivers, with all three of his touchdown passes going to   acquisition Martellus Bennett, who appears   to being the   of New England’s two tight end offense alongside Rob Gronkowski. He opened the third quarter scoring with an incredible      where he streaked down the sideline with the ball and jumped over a defender into the end zone. In a diverse attack, Chris Hogan led New England with 114 receiving yards on just 4 catches, Rob Gronkowski looked revitalized with 5 catches for 109 yards, and Bennett finished the day with 6 catches for 63 yards. The Denver Broncos finally found a quarterback they could not win with. Paxton Lynch, a rookie pressed into service because of an injury to Trevor Siemian, struggled to get anything going on offense as the Broncos’ vaunted defense faltered in a   loss to the Atlanta Falcons. Denver’s defense did an excellent job limiting Julio Jones, the Falcons’ star wide receiver, who had just 2 catches for 29 yards a week after he torched Carolina for 300 yards. But running back Tevin Coleman had a   touchdown reception as part of a     day and the Falcons, not known for defense, were able to keep Denver from getting back into the game after a slow start. Siemian, who has a strained AC joint in his   shoulder, is expected to be back on Thursday night against the Chargers. He may not have quite the pedigree of Lynch, was drafted in the first round this year, but he is clearly farther along in his development. Darius Slay almost   ended the unbeaten start to Carson Wentz’s career. With a forced fumble and an interception in the fourth quarter  —   the first interception of Wentz’s career  —   Slay helped the Detroit Lions reverse a   collapse and beat the Philadelphia Eagles,  . The first half had been all Detroit, with Matthew Stafford throwing three touchdown passes on the way to a   start to the game. But in the second half, Philadelphia’s defense tightened up and Wentz, the No. 2 pick in this year’s draft, steadily got his team back into the game. But that is when Slay took over. With his team trailing   in the fourth quarter, the    cornerback jarred the ball free from Ryan Mathews on a rushing attempt. The Lions recovered the ball and drove 34 yards for a     field goal, with 27 of the yards coming on a big reception by Golden Tate, the team’s embattled wide receiver, who had just one catch last week. Given the ball back with a chance to engineer a   drive, Wentz, who to that point had begun his career with 134 passes without an interception, aired the ball out in an attempt to catch the Lions off guard. But Slay once again came through, jumping over Nelson Agholor for the ball and sealing Philadelphia’s fate. It was more of the same for the Minnesota Vikings, as the team improved its record to   with a familiar formula of stifling defense and efficient offense. Sam Bradford threw for two passing touchdowns and Matt Asiata ran one in as part of a   blowout of the Houston Texans. The Vikings’ stellar secondary frustrated Houston’s Brock Osweiler all game, holding the young quarterback to just 19 completions on 42 attempts and Minnesota ended up outgaining Houston 351 to 214. Minnesota goes into its bye week with a perfect record and some extra time to prepare for a matchup with Carson Wentz and the Philadelphia Eagles in Week 7. Read more about the unbeaten Vikings here. For what it is worth to the Giants, Green Bay’s quarterback, Aaron Rodgers, wore a disgusted look while walking to the sideline almost as frequently as his counterpart on Sunday, Eli Manning. With both teams missing critical players in the defensive secondary, Rodgers and Manning seemed likely to amass big passing statistics on Sunday night at Lambeau Field. That is not how things played out. An unexceptional Rodgers threw for two touchdowns and two interceptions in the Packers’   victory. Manning struggled for the second consecutive week as the Giants scored just one touchdown and lost their third straight game.  —   Pat Borzi Here’s our report from Lambeau Field. ■ Chargers Melt Down Again: Derek Carr threw a     touchdown pass to Michael Crabtree on a    gamble and added another TD pass to Amari Cooper to lead the Oakland Raiders to a   victory over the   San Diego Chargers. San Diego ( ) committed four turnovers and then botched the hold on a potential tying field goal. Rookie Drew Kaser couldn’t hold the snap on what would have been a   field goal attempt. Here’s how the Raiders won. ■ Steelers Pick Jets Apart: Ben Roethlisberger passed for 380 yards and four touchdowns and the surging Pittsburgh Steelers pulled away in the second half for a   win over the New York Jets on Sunday. Sammie Coates caught six passes for a   139 yards and two scores, including a      for a score on Pittsburgh’s opening drive as the Steelers moved the ball at will against a secondary missing injured star Darrelle Revis. Read more about the Steelers’ victory here. ■ Redskins Win Third Straight: The Washington Redskins abandoned their usual formula for victory  —   the passing of Kirk Cousins  —   to extend their winning streak to three. Washington used an   punt return by Jamison Crowder and an uncharacteristically strong performance by its defense to beat the Baltimore Ravens   on Sunday. The Redskins ( ) allowed 108 points in their first four games and came in with the league’s   defense. In this one, Washington gave up a touchdown on the game’s opening drive and smothered the Ravens ( ) the rest of the way. Read more here. Bills Beat Rams: Nickell   returned an interception 41 yards for a touchdown, LeSean McCoy rushed for 150 yards, and the Buffalo Bills won their third consecutive game by defeating the Los Angeles Rams   on Sunday. Here’s how the Bills won their third straight game.