BRIDGEPORT, Conn.  —   When Alison Boteler opened the property tax bill last summer on the home that she shares with her mother here, she was stunned. The mayor had campaigned on a pledge of no new taxes. Instead, her taxes had shot up $5, 000, to $24, 000 a year. The Botelers are among many homeowners here who felt blindsided by one of the highest   property tax rate increases any community in the nation has imposed in recent years  —   29 percent. “It’s a nightmare,” said Ms. Boteler, a    writer, who has not put her home on the market but has shown it informally. “People have come and fallen in love with the house. But then they look at the tax bill and can’t do it. ” The enormous tax rate increase is symptomatic of Bridgeport’s unenviable status as a poor city in a rich state. It also reflects a broader and sobering national picture: The economic revival across much of the country has bypassed many communities, including   industrial hubs like this one that are grappling with dwindling resources. In a citywide reassessment last year, the value of Bridgeport’s taxable property fell by a staggering $1 billion, to $6 billion. “The story of Bridgeport, unfortunately, as with so many old towns, is that they lose their tax base,” said Richard D. Pomp, a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law and an expert on state and local taxation. “It’s one of the poorest cities in the country,” he added. “You are now taking the same amount of spending and spreading it out over a smaller base and your tax rate has to increase. ” The jump in the tax rate, and a frustration with Bridgeport’s chronically chaotic governing, prompted Peter Spain to apply for a Guinness World Record: “highest   increase in property tax rate in the world. ” “The Guinness World Book is a zany thing that you scare your babysitter with, by flipping to the page with the longest mustache,” said Mr. Spain, 46, who owns a graphic design firm with his wife. “It’s kooky and outrageous, and I feel like that sums up the situation here. ” A fitting description, perhaps, for a city where P. T. Barnum once lived and was mayor, and where he brought his circus to rest during the winter. The   of Bridgeport’s mayor, Joseph P. Ganim, reflects some of that chaos. The city’s voters catapulted him back into office in 2015, 12 years after he was convicted of taking hundreds of thousands of dollars in kickbacks and bribes from people who wanted to do business with the city. Between his last term and his current one, Mr. Ganim served nearly seven years in federal prison. Mr. Ganim’s triumph last year was quickly tempered by the city’s financial reality. Within weeks of taking office, he learned that the previous administration had left the city with a $20 million budget deficit. And just as things started settling down after Mr. Ganim returned to City Hall, news emerged that the city’s property values had plummeted. State law requires municipalities to reassess the value of taxable property every five years. Bridgeport had managed to avoid a reassessment, staving off a   reckoning after the financial crisis of 2008, which depressed property values across much of the region. “The longer you delay a reassessment, the worse the sticker shock,” said Joan Youngman, a senior fellow at the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, a research center in Cambridge, Mass. “It’s politically and economically hard for everybody. ” Mr. Ganim had been   largely on campaign promises to hold the line on taxes. Faced with a big budget hole, the city raised the effective tax rate on properties by nearly 29 percent. “We had a double whammy  —   a $20 million deficit, plus the revaluation,” said Av Harris, who is a policy adviser and spokesman for the mayor. “This was not an easy decision. It was not an easy budget to figure out. But we have to make the best decisions we can. ” Still, the lower property values have actually been good for many taxpayers  —   their tax bills decreased because the assessed value of many properties had dropped so precipitously. Indeed, more than half of the city’s homeowners paid less in property taxes this year than last year, said Ken Flatto, who is Bridgeport’s finance director. Mr. Ganim did not own a home in Bridgeport when he was   he rented a condominium on Cartright Street. After the reassessment was announced last winter, Mr. Ganim bought two condos, according to city records. Condo values took a particularly hard hit in the revaluation, and Mr. Ganim was able to buy both properties at prices well below what the sellers had paid when they bought the homes. The taxes due on one of the mayor’s condos is 40 percent less than last year’s tax bill. But others saw big tax increases, especially residents in Black Rock, an affluent neighborhood. The appraised value on Ms. Boteler’s 1948 brick Georgian Colonial climbed to $690, 000 from $650, 000, an increase she successfully challenged last spring. The value is now $645, 000, but her taxes still went up. “It’s crazy,” Ms. Boteler said. “I’d love to live here until I die, but that’s not going to happen. ” Aida   said the tax increase was pushing her out of her house. At 78, she is still working full time to help pay for her husband’s nursing home care and her property taxes, which this year rose $2, 391, to $16, 072, on her   Cape. “I’m getting my home ready to sell,” Ms.   said, noting that her taxes had gone up 400 percent since she bought the house 20 years ago. “I can’t stay here. This last increase did it. ” But, she added, “Who’s going to buy it once they see the taxes?” The Spains knew they would pay higher taxes in Bridgeport than in Fairfield, which is a   town with fewer residents and a bigger tax base. Its tax base is $10. 8 billion for the current budget of $294 million Bridgeport’s is $6 billion for its budget of $552 million. But the Spains also knew the city’s lower real estate prices meant they could afford a house that would have been out of reach in Fairfield, Mr. Spain said. The couple has lived in a   American cities, Mr. Spain said. “We’ve never lived in a place where you wake up and go, ‘Oh my God, what the hell are they doing?’ Even the street sweeper does circles around the neighborhood for two days in a row,” he said. Now Mr. Spain is active in Citizens Working for a Better Bridgeport, a group pushing for changes in the way the city is run. Mr. Spain and another Black Rock homeowner, David M. Walker, are among the residents who want a financial oversight board to take hold of the city’s purse strings. “We see a lack of standards in Bridgeport,” Mr. Spain said. Mr. Walker has experience in government, having served as the comptroller general of the United States until 2008. He now divides his time between Northern Virginia and Bridgeport. His tax bill rose 22. 5 percent this year, while the value of his house fell. “You’re supposed to grow the tax base faster than the budget,” Mr. Walker said. “This city is doing exactly the opposite. ” They and several hundred other homeowners showed up at the first City Council meeting after the tax bills arrived in residents’ mailboxes. Exasperated by what he had heard from neighbors, and wanting to do something that would garner attention, Mr. Spain landed upon an idea to officially declare Bridgeport guilty of municipal lunacy. He registered with the Guinness website, paid the $5 fee and applied on behalf of the taxpayers of Bridgeport for the world record. Guinness receives nearly 1, 000 new applications every week, a spokeswoman said. It typically takes about three months to review requests before rendering a decision. Mr. Spain’s application was denied. Guinness said it could not fairly compare local tax rates, given the variations in jurisdictions and tax formulas around the world. Mr. Spain said he was not too disappointed by the ruling. His Guinness bid was designed to bring attention to the city’s plight. “It reminded me of the underlying criticism of Bridgeport,” Mr. Spain said. “It’s the phantom circus element that never really left town. ”