’  ’ ’   BEIRUT (Reuters)   The United Nations Security Council on   Saturday welcomed a ceasefire in the Syrian civil war, but rebel   groups threatened to abandon the    truce if violations   persisted. ’ ’   A resolution welcoming the ceasefire, the third truce this year   seeking to end nearly six years of war, was adopted unanimously   by the   Council, meeting in New York. ’ ’   The deal, brokered by Russia and Turkey, which back opposing   sides, reduced violence, but firefights, air strikes and shelling   went on in some areas. ’ ’   Factions belonging to the Free Syrian Army (FSA)   a loose   alliance of militias excluding more radical Islamist groups     said government forces and   Lebanese Hezbollah   fighters had been trying to push rebels back in the Wadi Barada   valley, northwest of Damascus. ’ ’   ”Continued violations by the regime and bombardment and attempts   to attack areas under the control of the revolutionary factions   will make the agreement null and void,” said a statement from the   rebel groups. ’ ’   The rebels and political opposition said the government side was   massing forces to launch a ground attack in the area. There has   been no new announcement by the military since it launched   operations in the area last week. ’ ’   FSA factions said in a separate statement that they would abandon   the truce deal if Russia, whose air power has helped President   Bashar   to turn the tide of the war, did not use its   influence to halt the Wadi Barada attacks by 8 p. m. (1 p. m. ET). ’ ’   Later, two rebel officials said air raids around Wadi Barada had   stopped just before 8 p. m. and that the ceasefire therefore still   held, although clashes in the area were continuing. ’ ”   The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group   confirmed that there had been fighting in the area, source of   most of the capital’s water, and said there had also been   government shelling in the southern provinces of Quneitra and   Deraa. ” ’  ’ ”   Russia’s Defense Ministry said on Friday that rebels had violated   the truce 12 times in 24 hours. Much of Friday’s violence took   place along the border between Hama and Idlib provinces in   northwest Syria. ” ’   Russian President Vladimir Putin and Iranian President Hassan   Rouhani agreed in a telephone call on Saturday to work together   to try to end the Syria crisis and make a success of peace talks   planned for the Kazakh capital Astana, the Kremlin said in a   statement. ’ ’   The   Observatory said the level of fighting had   fallen on Saturday, and the truce was not currently at risk,   although one rebel official said it was ”in serious danger”. ’ ’   In their statement, the FSA factions said it appeared the   government and opposition had signed two different versions of   the ceasefire deal, one of which was missing ”a number of key and   essential points that are  ” but did not say what   those were. ’ ’   The ceasefire deal is the first not to involve the United States   or the United Nations. ’ ’   The Security Council welcomed the truce despite being urged by   the FSA factions not to endorse the deal until the Syrian   government and Russia had shown they would respect it. ’ ’   The resolution also welcomed plans for the talks in Kazakhstan   before a resumption of U. N.  talks in Geneva in February. ’ ’   The war has killed more than 300, 000 people and made more than 11   million homeless. ’ ’   Even with a successful truce between Assad and the main armed   opposition, the   conflict will continue. ’ ’   In particular, Turkey is trying to push back Kurdish forces and   the jihadist Islamic State, both excluded from the deal, from   areas south of its border. ’ ’   The position of other Islamist groups such as Jabhat Fateh     and Ahrar   with respect to the ceasefire is   unclear; both have criticized it. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Reporting by John Davison and Bozorgmehr Sharafedin in Beirut,   Polina Devitt in Moscow, Yeganeh Torbati in Washington and   Michelle Nichols in New York; Editing by Kevin Liffey and Adrian   Croft) ’