’   The promotion of fake news is a big problem that sites like   Facebook and Google are scrambling to fix. Both companies have   made efforts to bury bad links from their algorithms, but some   stories are still slipping through. ’ ’   Right now on Google, if you type in ”can a president run a third   term,” the top result shown is fake. ’ ’   An answer from the site NewsExaminer. net pops up in Google’’s   featured snippet section and claims that President Obama ”shocked   the country this morning” by announcing he’’d be running for   office again. ’ ’   Which of course, a . ’ ’  ’ ’   Google says articles for its featured snippets and summaries   section are chosen programmatically (by algorithms, not humans).   ”When we recognize that a query asks a question, we   programmatically detect pages that answer the user’’s question,   and display a top result as a featured snippet in the search   results,” the company writes in its . ’ ’   Google Home, Google’’s personal assistant hardware, uses top   Google snippets to populate the messages it reads back to   listeners. I tested the same question, ”can a president run a   third term,” on my Google Home and got the same NewsExaminer   story. You can watch my Google Home give me the fake news answer,   below. ’ ’ ’ ’   When asked ”Can a president run for a third term?” Google Home   did say the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution, enacted after   President Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected four times, now   imposes a two term limit, . ’ ”   The fake news article isn’t just showing up in the featured   snippet, either. The NewsExaminer. net article also appears as the   third Google search result on the page. ” ’   This isn’’t the first programmatic fake news problem Google has   had. Google recently decided to sunset its ”In the News” feature   after it  for showing a false article about the US   election results. In November, the top Google result for a ”final   election count” search declared that Donald Trump had won the   popular vote (). It was written by a Wordpress blog and had been   picked up by Google’’s ”In The News” algorithm. ’ ’   Google CEO  could   have influenced the election, and that it needs to be stopped.   ”From our perspective,” Pichai said, ”there should just be no   situation where fake news gets distributed, so we are all for   doing better here.” ’ ’   Google has not yet returned a request for comment. ’