’Over the past several years, we’’ve seen a rise in private companies valued at over a billion dollars  —   the ”unicorns. ”’ ’But when too many startups became unicorns, a new class of startups emerged: ”,” companies valued at over $10 billion.’ ’These are the Ubers and Airbnbs of the world, the startups that steadfastly remain private companies as they seek more millions in funding at higher and higher valuations.’ ’Following are the US startups valued at more than $10 billion.’ ’Valuation: $10 billion’ ’CEO Drew Houston’ ’Dropbox reached its $10 billion valuation in 2014 after a $617 million funding round. Since then, the company has shifted its focus to business customers,  last year.’ ”The company began to  in 2016, something that was costing the company $25, 000 per year per employee. While Dropbox doesn’t disclose its financials, it’s reported to have generated more than $500 million in revenue last year. CEO Drew Houston said in June that the company is  which is a milestone for a   tech company. <” ’Various reports have pegged a Dropbox IPO as taking place sometime in 2017, but  no final decisions had been made.’ ’Valuation: $10. 47 billion’ ’CEO Ben Silbermann’ ”In May 2015, Pinterest raised a $533 million Series G from investors like Andreessen Horowitz, First Mark, and Goldman Sachs, bumping the New   company’s valuation up to $10. 47 billion. ” ’’ ’Rumors have been swirling throughout 2016 that Pinterest is on the brink of going public, and in October, the company named  a signal that Pinterest could be inching closer to an IPO. ’ ’Valuation: ’ ’CEO Elon Musk’ ”After raising a $1 billion funding round from Fidelity and Google in January 2015, Elon Musk’s SpaceX reached a $12 billion valuation.” ’Less than a year later, SpaceX  when it launched its Falcon 9’ ’’ ’Valuation: $16. 9 billion’ ’WeWork cofounders Miguel McKelvey and Adam Neumann’ ’Coworking startup WeWork closed on $690 million in funding in October, putting its valuation over  and making it the    startup in the US. ’ ’But in July, reports surfaced that the company was ’ ’’ ’Valuation: $18. 19 billion*’ ’CEO Evan Spiegel’ ’In November, Snap Inc.  —   formerly Snapchat  —   quietly filed for  that could value that company at $25 billion (some sources peg it closer to $40 billion). The company aims’ ’’ ’’ ’*Snap is working on an initial public offering for ’ ’’ ’CEO Alex Karp’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Valuation: $30 billion’ ’Product chief Joe Gebbia, CTO Nathan Blecharczyk, CEO Brian Chesky’ ’  startup Airbnb had a challenging 2016, but the company is still the second   startup in the US. ’ ’In August, Airbnb filed to raise  of funding that would value the company at $30 billion. But shortly thereafter, the startup became embroiled in legal battles in two of its most crucial cities, San Francisco and New York. ’ ’In October, Gov. Andrew Cuomo  that ’ ’’ ’Valuation: $68 billion’ ’CEO Travis Kalanick’ ’Uber is the most valuable startup in the US and across the globe, outpacing its closest global rival, Xiaomi, by more than $20 billion. ’ ’The   startup raised several billion dollars in 2016, including  and  in the form of a leveraged loan. ’ ”But the startup also closed  with its chief rival, China’s Didi Chuxing, with Didi making a $1 billion investment in Uber global and acquiring Uber’s Chinese arm in a $35 billion  .” ’Now, Uber is focused on  and tackling   rivals ’