’  ’ ’   Barack Obama’s impending departure from the White House has put   many Americans in an elegiac mood. ’ ’   Despite an average approval rating of only   —   the lowest, surprisingly, of our   last five presidents  —   he has always been beloved, if not   revered, by the scribbling classes. ’ ’   Just as many prematurely deemed Bush the worst president ever, so   many are now ready to enshrine Obama as one of the     greats. ’ ’   Or at least they were until the fall of Aleppo. ’ ’   Since the Syrian uprising began in 2011, Americans have regarded   the carnage there as essentially a humanitarian disaster. ’ ’   For Obama, contemplating his legacy, the awful death and   destruction that Syria has suffered  —   the 400, 000 deaths, the   wholesale wasting of civilian neighborhoods, the wanton use of   sarin gas and chlorine gas and barrel bombs, the untold   atrocities  —   has raised the old question of how future   generations will judge an American president’s passivity or   ineffectuality in the face of mass slaughter. ’ ’   Perhaps Obama has been hoping for a dispensation, since   presidential reputations have never suffered much for such sins   of omission. With a few notable exceptions, biographies,   textbooks, obituaries, and even public memory have dwelled little   on George W. Bush’s inaction in Darfur, Bill Clinton’s   floundering over Rwanda, George H. W. Bush’s dithering about   Bosnia, Jimmy Carter’s fecklessness in Cambodia, Gerald Ford’s   cold realism toward East Timor, or Richard Nixon’s complicity in   Bangladesh. “ ’ ’   Who, after all, speaks today of the annihilation of the   Armenians?” Hitler reportedly said in 1939, predicting that the   world’s amnesia about the Turks’ mass killings should allow his   armies to proceed in all ruthlessness without fear of judgment.   We might think of those words in considering how little attention   in our history books is given to our presidents’ very limited   roles in standing up to atrocities overseas. ’ ’   And yet now, as Obama’s presidency winds down, and a ceasefire   begins to take effect Syria that Washington played no role in   negotiating, it’s becoming clear that the loss of life and   the humanitarian crisis represent just the first of many   consequences that historians will have to assess as they ask how   the United States, under Obama’s leadership, chose to deal, or   not to deal, with the Syrian Civil War. And if historians tend to   give presidents a pass on failing to arrest slaughter, they are   not so generous in evaluating the loss of American influence   around the world. ’ ’   Right now, the apparent loss of that influence seems to loom   newly large. The brutal   assault in December   crushed the Syrian resistance in its main holdout city, Aleppo,   calling into question whether the rebel forces will still be able   to carry on any insurrection at all. ’ ’   President Bashar   is gathering with the despots of   Russia, Turkey, and Iran to draw up the terms of resolution,   pointedly excluding the United States and the United Nations.   Vladimir Putin seems high in his saddle. ’ ’  ’ ’   For years, Obama has insisted that Syria isn’t of great strategic   importance to the United States. But that judgment represents not   just a break from decades of geostrategic thinking but a gamble   of considerable risk. If Obama is wrong, his miscalculation could   have massive implications. Should Russia displace the United   States as the region’s preeminent great power, it will affect   America’s access to energy, its ability to fight terrorism, its   capacity to ensure Israel’s survival, and its relationship with   states like Turkey, Iran, and Saudi Arabia. ’ ’   Equally important are the implications of Obama’s Syria policy on   Europe’s immigration crisis. For decades the continent has   struggled, with mixed results, to assimilate Muslim arrivals from   the Middle East and Africa, many of whom come bearing sharply   alien cultural values. ’ ’   But the new waves of Syrian refugees unleashed by the failure to   contain the civil war there has now created a crisis of   unparalleled magnitude. Countries from Turkey and Hungary to   Germany and France have been thrown into turmoil. Cultural   tensions escalated, empowering   nationalist parties   across the continent and contributing to Britain’s vote to leave   the European Union. ’ ’   In the United States this past year, Donald Trump amplified his   own pandering to   sentiment with new worries about an   influx of Syrian refugees  —   stoking   fears. Around   the world, it seems, the rise of noxious populist currents can be   traced, at least in part, to the deepening of the immigration   crises by the Syrian war. ’ ’  ’ ’   Yet a third result of Obama’s ineffectuality lay in the rise of   the Islamic State, a terrorist organization even more     and bent on conquest than the al Qaeda fragments   from which it sprang. Obama obviously did not create the Islamic   State, contrary to Donald Trump’s absurd   slanders.   But his administration was laggard in countering its gathering   strength. ’ ’   Although the terrorist outfit is on the defensive now, it   continues to orchestrate deadly strikes in Europe, and,   indirectly, to inspire   attacks in the United States,   guaranteeing that terrorism will remain a major threat on both   continents for years to come. ’ ’   Fourth, the failure to contain the Islamic State early on also   forced the United States to change its strategy in Syria. Turning   his attention from Assad, Obama now chose to direct American   military assistance mainly into the fight against the radical   Islamist group. Among other effects, this reorientation of   American policy made it much less likely  —   if not impossible  —     for Obama to deliver on his August 2011 vow that Assad must go. ’ ’  ’ ’   Fifth and finally, it wasn’t only Assad who emerged emboldened.   Fatefully, in 2012 Obama had declared that if Assad were to use   chemical weapons, he would cross a red line that would require   American military intervention. ’ ’   A year later, evidence surfaced that Assad did precisely that,   firing rockets filled with sarin gas at towns around Damascus. ’ ’   But in the face of skeptical congressional opinion at home, Obama   backed down from reprisals. Instead he settled for a Russian   proposal that Syria merely dismantle its weapons stockpiles, but   face no punishment for its war crimes. ’ ’   Obama has made clear that he disdains the concept of   “credibility”  —   the idea that the U. S. must follow through on its   commitments lest it get pushed around in the future. But the   reversal of policy in September 2013 on a clearly articulated   principle sent shivers from Seoul to Jerusalem to Tallinn  —   and   may well have encouraged America’s adversaries, including Russia,   to test Obama further. ’ ’   Putin’s illegal 2014 seizure of Crimea and the ongoing fomenting   of unrest in eastern and southern Ukraine were worrisome enough.   But now evidence suggests that the Russian president played a   direct role in hacking Democratic Party officials’ emails in an   effort to tip the scales of the presidential election in favor of   Trump. These disclosures have shattered any claims that Obama   showed sufficient resolve against a formidable, confident, and   completely immoral rival for geopolitical influence. ’ ’  ’ ’   How all of this will affect Obama’s reputation in the long run is   difficult to predict. Observers can only speculate, recognizing   all the while that we can’t know which elements of Obama’s policy   future historians will emphasize and which they will ignore,   which they will esteem and which they will scorn. ’ ’   Sadly, it seems probable that Obama won’t be judged too harshly   for failing to arrest the carnage in Syria. For all our fretting,   inaction in the face of genocide or mass slaughter or   humanitarian disaster has never hurt our presidents much in the   historical reckonings. ’ ’   It is true that in the wake of the Holocaust, Americans grew   conscious of the sufferings of foreign peoples and of their own   responsibility, as citizens of the world’s mightiest nation, to   try to do something. Looking at the past through this new lens,   even the sainted Franklin D. Roosevelt took a mild hit, as   historians learned more about and came to question his failure to   assist the Jewish refugees of Europe, to bomb the rail lines to   Auschwitz, or otherwise impede or retard Hitler’s killing   machine. ’ ’   More recently, historians and journalists like Samantha Power,   Ben Kiernan, and Gary J. Bass directed historians’ attention to   other genocides and mass slaughters. Human rights advocates   argued more vociferously that the world’s mightiest nations had a   duty to try to prevent such atrocities. ’ ’   But that consciousness peaked in the 1990s, and because military   interventionism has fallen out of fashion since the Iraq War, it   has been receding. Obama may have sought some solace in   the fact that presidents’ reputations have not typically   suffered for inaction in the face of mass slaughter. ’ ’  ’ ’   They do suffer, however, for frittering away American power   and prestige. Though Harry Truman wins high marks for his   handling of the communist threat in Europe, he and the Democratic   Party were haunted for years by the question, following Mao   Zedong’s civil war victory in 1949, of “Who lost China?”  —     feeding a domestic political environment that arguably made his   successors keener to intervene in Vietnam, Laos, and elsewhere in   Southeast Asia. ’ ’   Similarly, Jimmy Carter’s inability to deal effectively either   with the Soviet Union’s 1979 invasion of Afghanistan or the   revolutionary Iranian government’s seizure of 52 American   hostages contributed to his defeat by Ronald Reagan in 1980 as   well as to the low esteem in which his foreign policy is held by   scholars. Presidents can’t, of course, always prevent the   outbreak of conflicts and wars, but how they respond to those   wars  —   and whether the U. S. emerges from them stronger or weaker,   and the world safer or more precarious  —   is a telling measure of   leadership. ’ ’   On the other hand, as Obama knows well, presidents also suffer   for wars gone badly. Lyndon Johnson should be remembered as one   of America’s greatest presidents, but his stubborn prosecution of   the Vietnam War, despite knowing it was unwinnable, has kept him   out of the pantheon of greatness. (It’s possible that when the     Baby Boomers pass from the scene, LBJ will be   judged with greater balance and charity.) ’ ’   George W. Bush’s invasion of Iraq, similarly, with all its   disastrous implications, is likely to remain the central episode   of his presidency for a long time, outranking even his more   successful response to the terrorist attacks of  . ’ ’  ’ ’   Indeed, Obama, entering office after Bush’s ruinous adventurism,   made the avoidance of another quagmire his primary goal.   Encouraged by national security aides who hailed from the realm   of domestic politics, Obama let the fear of crossing antiwar   opinion dictate his path. Yet in treading lightly, Obama   misplaced his big stick. ’ ’   A conciliator by nature, he had reached the presidency on   promises to unite inimical groups  —     and     whites and blacks  —   and in his inaugural address he likewise   pledged to bridge the gap with the Arab world. But just as he   wasn’t prepared for the implacability of congressional   Republicans, who scorned his outstretched hand in a bid to   bolster their own power, so he did not count on foreign   adversaries taking advantage of his aversion to conflict. ’ ’   Obama’s Syria legacy won’t be the only factor shaping how   posterity regards his foreign policy. The uneven efforts to wind   down the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, the   Iran   nuclear deal, the opening to Cuba, the weakening of al Qaeda and   other terrorist groups, the struggles to revive peace talks   between Israel and the Palestinians  —   these add up to a mixed and   complicated record whose implications will take time and thought   to untangle. It may be that his focus on building alliances in   Asia will prove, despite the collapse of his     Partnership, to be of greater   significance than his   misadventures in Syria. ’ ’   But for now it seems hard to escape the conclusion that in   correcting for Bush’s overly aggressive foreign policy, Obama   went too far in avoiding confrontations, and that in that halting   and hesitant approach he wound up neither strengthening his   country’s influence and status nor its power to bring about its   ultimate goal of a safer and more peaceful world. ’