’  ’ ’   Megyn Kelly will depart Fox News to join NBC News,   NBC announced on Tuesday. ’ ’   NBC News announced that Kelly inked an unspecified     contract. ’ ’   ”Megyn is an exceptional journalist and news anchor, who has had   an extraordinary career,” NBC Universal Chairman News Group chair   Andrew Lack said in a statement. ”She’s demonstrated tremendous   skill and poise, and we’re lucky to have her.” ’ ’   Kelly will anchor an NBC News program Sunday evening, host   an   daily daytime news   and become a   mainstay in special political news events. ’ ’   In  Kelly thanked the Fox News and the   Murdoch family, which oversees 21st Century Fox, the parent   company of Fox News.  ’ ’’ ’   ”Over a dozen years ago I started at Fox News in a job that would   change my life. Now, I have decided to end my time at FNC,   incredibly enriched for the experiences I’’ve had,” Kelly wrote. ’ ’   ”While I will greatly miss my colleagues at Fox, I am delighted   to be joining the NBC News family and taking on a new challenge.   I remain deeply grateful to Fox News, to Rupert, Lachlan and   James Murdoch, and especially to all of the FNC viewers, who have   taught me so much about what really matters. More to come soon.” ’ ”   Kelly’s future at Fox has been the subject of speculation for   months as the anchor and top 21st Century Fox brass engaged   in a relatively public renegotiation of her contact, which is set   to expire this year. ” ”   Kelly’s departure, which The New York Times f, also comes as the network has   publicly said it wants to shift slightly toward more hard news. ” ” last   December, 21st Century Fox CEO James Murdoch said that since   former Fox head Roger Ailes’ departure, the network was focused   slightly more on breaking news.  ” ’   ”There’’s definitely a desire to break news, to really focus on   the news side of it. But also to make sure that the personalities   that are in prime time, the people that are there, and new people   that are going to come through are engaging and exciting and   connecting with the audience,” Murdoch said ’ ”   A Fox News spokesperson did not immediately return Business   Insider’s request for comment. ” ’ This post will be updated. ’