’  ’ ’   Few words issued by   Donald Trump could matter   more than his recent rhetoric on nuclear weapons. ’ ’   ”The United States must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear   capability until such time as the world comes to its senses   regarding nukes,” Trump  on December 22, 2016. ’ ’   The next day, he bucked his aides’’ : ”Let it be an arms race. We will   outmatch them at every pass and outlast them all,” Trump    MSNBC ”Morning Joe” host Mika Brzezinski over   the phone. ’ ’   Trump is worried about the nuclear weapons modernization efforts   of Russia, which in 2014  a key arms reduction treaty, plus the   of North Korea. His   attitude echoes Cold     logic: outmatch your adversaries, or risk a     preemptive strike. ’ ’   But this line of thinking is exceedingly dangerous in a future US   president. It not only ignores  and threatens to   further implode a global    effort to  it also increases  of a nuclear catastrophe. ’ ”   Trump’s push for nuclear proliferation is the    not even worthy of being a last resort. ” ”   Here’s why. ” ’ ’ ’   Russia currently possesses 7, 300 nuclear weapons. The United   States . Together, these armaments comprise about  on Earth. By contrast, China has   about . ’ ’   Less than a quarter of these weapons are actually deployed in the   air, on land, or at sea  —   the   ”triad” of defense. Also,   an  are smaller, ”tactical” devices meant for the   battlefield. (Such devices  as we’’ll show shortly.) ’ ’   But such caveats make little difference. ’ ’   Most US and Russian arms are officially deemed as ”strategic,”   such as the   and they tend to be many times more   powerful than the bombs the US dropped on the Japanese cities of   Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. Those unprecedented   attacks leveled cities and killed more than 100, 000 people. ’ ’   Purely looking at the  the US has deployed and   stockpiled enough to destroy every Russian city with a population   greater than 50, 000 (about 300 cities altogether) many times   over. Similarly, Russia likely has enough to decimate every US   city larger than 100, 000 people (also about 300 cities) multiple   times. ’ ”   This is the raw essence behind : You won’t destroy us because we can destroy you. ” ’   If establishing such a stalemate is still the  behind the existence of nuclear weapons, then the   current US arsenal is more than adequate psychological warfare.   Adding more weapons, as Trump suggests, would do little to   enhance or change this perceived advantage. ’ ”   In fact, it’d make a terrifying situation even worse. ” ’  ’ ’   Right now, hundreds of strategic US nuclear weapons are on   ”  alert,” also called ”on alert” or   ”  ”. ’ ”   This  means such weapons can be   launched within a few minutes of detecting an adversary’s   preemptive nuclear strike  —   or a . ” ”   Many strategic weapons, like  intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) deployed   across middle America, can’t be disabled once they leave a silo. ” ”   Yet no human creation is perfect. You can build the world’s   smartest, most seemingly foolproof machine, and it will still   contain flaws. In the case of nuclear weapons systems, such flaws   run the risk of accidental launch, detonation, and incredible   loss of life. ” ’   Tallying up nuclear weapons accidents is exceedingly difficult,   especially due to their classified nature, but information that   has been released is alarming. ’ ’   ”[M]any dozens of incidents involving nuclear warheads are known   to have occurred in the United States  —   and likely many more that   have not been made public,” according to  by the Union of Concerned Scientists. It   continued: ”[T]he more of these incidents that occur, the greater   is the chance that one of them will lead to a nuclear   detonation.” ’ ’     known incidents were ”,” or when a nuclear weapon was accidentally launched,   fired, detonated, stolen, or lost. Eleven are weapons the US   military never recovered, including one of two powerful   thermonuclear bombs it accidentally dropped and nearly detonated   over North Carolina. ’ ’   A uranium pit from one of the weapons is still somewhere at the   bottom of a swamp. ’ ’  ’ ’   Writer Eric Schlosser has chronicled some of these      misadventures in ””. The 2014 book closely follows the story   of a Titan II ICBM that exploded in its silo,  that could have laid   waste to Arkansas and nearby states. (The cause? A maintenance   worker who accidentally dropped a tool.) ’ ’   In light of Trump’’s recent statements, Schlosser revisited some   of his book’’s material in a recent piece for  in which he described alarming, ongoing   technical problems with ”aging and obsolete” nuclear weapons and   their    systems. ’ ’   Schlosser also highlighted the risks of being human. Using   Minuteman III system as one example, he wrote for The New Yorker: ’ ’   National leaders who can order nuclear strikes are also fallible   humans. ’ ”   Take Pakistan’s defense minister, Khawaja Muhammad Asif, for   example. Asif  in late December   after reading (and apparently believing) a fake news article   about Israel threatening his country with nuclear weapons. ” ’   More nukes would increase the chances that a weapons system and   the people behind their operation would fail. It would also   heighten the risk of a weapon, especially small tactical ones,   . ’ ’   Luckily, the US is actively working to reduce the chance of   disaster. ’ ’  ’ ’   During the first presidential debate, Trump claimed that ”Russia   has been expanding their  —   they have a much newer [nuclear   weapons] capability than we do. We have not been updating from   the new standpoint. [. ..] We are not  —   we are not keeping up with   other countries.” ’ ’   While it’’s true that Russia is upgrading its weapons, partly in   response to sanctions and partly in response to US nuclear   weapons advancements, Trump’’s assertion that the US ”has not been   updating” and is ”not keeping up” . ’ ”   For example, Russia does not currently have a working     satellite system; it went offline 2 years ago,   . This means the US gets 30 minutes of warning   with an ICBM launch. Russia’s   radar systems,   meanwhile, can give only a few minutes’ notice before a warhead   lands. ” ”   Trump’s   statements on nuclear weapons also suggest   that he does not understand the truly bewildering amount of   taxpayer dollars the US has spent maintaining and improving its   nuclear weapons systems. ” ’   In his book ”” a professor at Middlebury Institute of   International Studies at Monterey, calculated how much the US   government spent on nuclear weapons through 1996. ’ ”   His conservative estimate is that the country spent, at minimum,   $5. 8 trillion on nuclear weapons. That’s in     dollars, though; in 2016 dollars, this amounts to more than $8. 9   trillion. ” ’   Putting this titanic amount of money into perspective, Schwartz   told an audience during  at the Brookings Institution: ’ ’   Today, a similar spending trend continues. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The current and planned U. S. investment in nuclear forces is   unrivaled by any other nuclear power,” stated  by the Arms Control Association. ’ ”   Business Insider has  to the fact that the US plans to   spend more than  to modernize its   nuclear arsenal. (The government pegged the cost at  over 20 years, but these estimates aren’t   realistic, according to several .) ” ’   The nuclear triad modernization program, requested by President   Barack Obama, endeavors to refurbish aging weapons systems,   improve reliability, narrow targeting, lower the risk of   malfunctions, and  the number of deployed,    weapons. ’ ’   Any call to expand the US nuclear arsenal while failing to   address this  as Trump did throughout the 2016 election, and   continues to as   belies a vast government   expenditure and suggests a worrisome ignorance or dishonesty. ’ ’   The effects of this program could extend well beyond US and   Russian borders, too. ’ ’  ’ ’   Proliferation can occur even when the total number of nuclear   weapons decreases. ’ ”   Despite both the US and Russia taking thousands of warheads   offline since 2010 (as part of the )   some experts believe the arms race Trump seeks  under Obama’s watch. A primary concern   surrounds two new tactical weapons the US military plans to   build. ” ’   The first is a new   nuclear cruise missile. Former   UK defense secretary Philip Hammond has said such weapons    to enemies and   adversaries, so their existence could lead to confusion that ends   in nuclear war. ’ ”   The second  —   the US military’s  design  —   is perhaps more troubling, in   that it might lead to routine use of nuclear weapons. While   billed as an upgrade, many experts . ” ’   The   will  bombs that simply fell to target with a   precision of about   feet. The  however, will have new   fins and   thrusters to guide them to a target with a precision of less than   100 feet. Their explosions will be adjustable, too, so the   military can detonate them at yields several times greater down   to several times less than the first atomic bombs. ’ ”   The Federation of American Scientists and former US military   leaders say such features make tactical weapons . And if tactical weapons are   used in a future conflict, the taboo against use of any nuclear   weapons . Some experts even argue that   tactical weapons use could lead to . (Of note: As late as August 2016, one of   Trump’s foreign policy advisors said the incoming president    why the US couldn’t use its   nuclear arsenal.) ” ”   US development of advanced tactical weapons also sends a signal   to other countries: Namely, that it’s ok to develop them, too. ” ’  ’ ’   The most worrisome country for this to happen is not Russia or   even Iran or North Korea, but Pakistan (which has 140 nuclear   weapons) in its longstanding and bitter feud with India (which   has 110 nuclear weapons). ’ ’   ”Pakistan is outnumbered by India in terms of conventional forces   and is growing increasingly reliant on the threat of the early   use of tactical weapons to deter an attack,” journalist Julian   Borger  in 2016. ’ ’   If that does happen, a   nuclear war could ensue  —   and   wreck the planet. ’ ”   Simulations show that in a war where India and Pakistan each   detonate 50   nuclear bombs over cities, more than a   quarter of the Earth’s ozone layer . The surge of incoming ultraviolet   light would wreck ocean ecosystems, increase the rate of skin   cancers, stunt plant growth, and more. ” ”   Also, all the carbon from burning cities would partially blot out   the sun,  and lead to   a nuclear winter scenario that’d trigger global famine due to   food shortages. ” ’   Adding weapons and increasing their capabilities is a surer path   toward such a catastrophe. There are, however, ways to steer   humanity away from this alarming risk. ’ ’  ’ ’   The more nuclear weapons exist and are upgraded, the more likely   they are to be used  —   either intentionally or accidentally  —   and   expose our species to the risk of an unprecedented nuclear   calamity and possibly a horrifying extinction. ’ ’   The solution is not easy but straightforward: Do not expand any   nuclear arsenals. Instead, continue to reduce weapons stockpiles,   ideally until they are all gone. ’ ”   The US can’t ignore ongoing threats from Putin to modernize and   expand Russia’s nuclear arsenal. Nor should we idly sit by while   North Korea works toward its first fully functional nuclear   weapons system, including an ICBM capable of reaching the US, or   as Pakistan develops tactical weapons  —   and endeavors to give   commanders the authority to use them on the battlefield. ” ’   Fortunately, plenty of   alternatives exist to keep   adversarial countries in check. ’ ”   Take cyberwarfare, for instance. Given the cleverness and scope   of    a computer virus that took down Iran’s     centrifuges, it’s not unreasonable to suggest covert and   preemptive attacks on nuclear weapons systems themselves are   possible or even ongoing. ” ’   ”You’’ve either been hacked and not admitting it, or you’’re being   hacked and don’’t know it,” retired general James Cartwright told   journalist Joe Cirincione . ’ ”   Diplomacy, sanctions, embargoes, and treaties may not always be   popular, but they have  —   so far  —   effectively prevented countries   like Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. They’ve also helped   reduce weapons stockpiles by more than a factor of 10.   Conventional warfare can also help strip a nation of its nuclear   weapons facilities. ” ”   Most importantly, however, as Schlosser and others argue, it’s   past time that we stop assuming nuclear weapons are safe or   ignorable relics of the Cold War. ” ’   Instead, we all need to have frank and honest discussions  —   in   our homes, at work, and with elected officials  —   about the   reality of nuclear weapons, including their numbers, risks, cost,   and imminent threat to the future of humanity. Every weapon we   dismantle is one step farther away from the worst kind of mishap   imaginable. ’ ”   Trump is known to change his mind, and for the sake of my   daughter’s future and the rest of America’s, I certainly hope   that he comes to his own senses on this issue. His  and  places him a unique position to lead   potentially powerful, bilateral diplomacy and arms reductions   efforts. ” ”   If he can pull it off, there’d almost certainly be   —   and at least one indelibly positive   historical legacy  —   waiting for him. ”