’  ’ ’   The fight over the future of the Affordable Care Act, better   known as Obamacare, kicked off in earnest Wednesday with   both Democratic and Republican leaders laying out their cases for   saving and dismantling the healthcare law, respectively. ’ ”   The day after Senate Republicans introduced a  through the   budget reconciliation process, lawmakers met privately with their   party’s leaders, who pushed their plans for the future of   healthcare in America. ” ’   Vice   Mike Pence and Obama met with congressional   leaders of their parties on Wednesday to map out the road ahead.   Each side ended the day with a more   sales pitch. ’ ’   Much like Republicans’’   promise to ”repeal and   replace” the ACA, the GOP’’s new path forward is marked by two   distinct messages. ’ ’   On one hand, Republicans emphasized that the Obamacare markets   are collapsing on their own and must therefore be overhauled. On   another, GOP leaders stressed the need for a ”smooth”   transition to a new plan that may not come as quickly as many of   their constituents likely expect. ’ ’   Republicans leaders have been attacking the healthcare law for   years, with leaders such as  House Speaker  and  all saying   repeal of the law would be an immediate priority for the new   Congress. ’ ’   That   attitude seems to have cooled in recent days,   as Republicans leaders have cited the need to ensure that the   over 20 million people that have gained healthcare through the   ACA retain their coverage. ’ ’   Ryan cited the need for a ”stable” transition to a replacement   during a press conference Wednesday, while Pence stressed ”an   orderly and smooth transition to a   healthcare reform   system.” ’ ’   Other Republicans lawmakers, including Sens. Rand Paul and   John McCain, also emphasized the need to be cautious on repeal   without a replacement plan in place. ’ ’   They were echoed by Trump, who  cautioned   Republicans to ”be careful” to make sure Democrats ”own the   failed Obamacare disaster” instead of having any future problems   pegged on the GOP. ’ ’   Pence cited the increases in  and  as reasons the law needed to be   replaced. Republicans as a whole argued that even if there are   disruptions or kinks, Obamacare was failing anyway, so change   will be necessary. ’ ’   ”We’’re talking about people’’s lives. We’’re talking about   families,” Pence said. ’ ’  ’ ’   For their part, Democrats made an attempt to lay problems arising   from any tweaking of Obamacare at the feet of Republicans. They   came with a slogan blaring that repeal would ”Make   America Sick Again”  —   a play on Trump’’s ”Make America Great   Again” campaign moniker. ’ ’   Additionally, Democrats looked to peg any lapses in care or other   disruptions in the healthcare market on the GOP. ’ ’   In a press conference Wednesday, new Senate Minority   Leader Chuck Schumer cited  that a Republican   plan to repeal the law and delay its replacement would cause   instability in the individual health insurance market and large   price hikes. Schumer said such a process would cause ”chaos” in   insurance markets. ’ ’   Obama, devoting one of his last days in office to the future of   his signature legislative achievement, told Democratic leaders to   start to call any changes ”Trumpcare” and not to ”rescue”   Republicans by compromising on replacement plans, . ’ ’   Democrats also touted the successes of the law  —   including    in the history of the country,   the provision that prevents insurers from denying coverage based   on a preexisting condition, and the elimination of lifetime   limits on coverage. These aspects of the law have   been  ’ ’   ”They want to repeal it and then try to hang it on us. Not going   to happen. It’’s their responsibility, plain and simple,”   Schumer said Wednesday. ’ ’   The dueling message campaigns come at a time when the American   public remains split over its provisions and its overall future.   The  in December that 49% of   Americans want to expand or keep the ACA as it is now, while 43%   of those surveyed preferred to repeal the law entirely or   roll back what it does. ’