’  ’ ’   In a   punch, House Speaker Paul Ryan said on Thursday that   Republicans  Planned Parenthood when they try to repeal the   Affordable Care Act, more commonly known as Obamacare. ’ ’   Thursday morning, Planned Parenthood  focused on keeping Republicans   in Congress from gutting the healthcare law, and from passing   legislation to ”defund” the organization. ’ ’   While politicians have popularized the term ”” when   talking about stripping federal funds for Planned Parenthood, the   group’’s political communications director, Erica Sackin, said   this is misleading. ’ ’   ”There’’s no line item in the budget for Planned Parenthood,”   Sackin told Business Insider. ”We’’re not funded through the   federal budget bill.” ’ ’   Planned Parenthood health centers serve 2. 5 million people each   year, nearly   of whom rely on public programs like   Medicaid to pay for their care. When lawmakers pass bills to   ”defund” the organization, (as ) those patients then have to pay for   healthcare at Planned Parenthood out of pocket. ’ ”   But the  to use Medicaid to   pay for an abortion except in the case of rape, incest, or if the   mother’s health is endangered. Congress first passed the law in    four years after the Supreme Court ruled women have a   constitutional right to abortion in Roe v. Wade. ” ’   So while it may seem as if ”defunding” Planned Parenthood is a   way to prevent abortions, Sackin said, ”it’’s going to affect   people who don’’t have anywhere else to go” get care like cancer   screenings. ’ ”   According to Planned Parenthood’s most recent  only 3% of the organization’s services are   abortions. Most people are getting birth control or STD tests at   Planned Parenthood clinics: ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The  when the new   Congress took over, with Republicans making their case for   repealing and replacing the ACA and Democrats arguing to save it. ’ ’   If Republicans scrap the law,  could lose the guaranteed access to  that Obamacare provides. ’ ”   But that’s just part of the fight. ” ’   The  outlines its firm stance against abortion,    he wants to appoint Supreme Court justices to   overturn Roe v. Wade, and  some of the strictest legislation against   abortion in the country as the governor of Indiana. ’ ’   Kelley Robinson, the deputy national organizing director for   Planned Parenthood, said one in five women will visit the   organization in their lifetimes, and that defunding it would be a   ”national health disaster.” ’ ’   ”The outpouring of need is so, so clear,” Robinson told Business   Insider. ”People need access to Planned Parenthood. We’’re a part   of their community, and we’’re a critical provider of health   care.” ’