’  ’ ’     US CEO John Legere wrapped his 2017 CES presentation   Thursday with a round of predictions, complete with crystal ball. ’ ’   His predictions for the year include Google entering the wireless   industry to compete with the big four carriers  —   Verizon,   AT&T,   and Sprint  —   and Verizon considering a merger   with cable giant Comcast. ’ ”   Here’s what Legere is betting is on the horizon. ” ’   Legere thinks big cable companies like Comcast Cable and Charter   Communications will get into the industry through mobile virtual   network operator (MVNO) deals  —   an MVNO provides to customers the   wireless service it buys in bulk from the big four carriers. ’ ’   Legere promised that if this is the case,   won’’t   participate in any of these deals, and that by CES 2018 Big Cable   will have realized its moves were losses and be in ”full   retreat.” ’ ’’ ’   ”The future is mobile,” Legere said, explaining that it only   makes sense a massive tech company like Facebook, Amazon, or,   most likely, Google, will join the fray to take on the big four.   ”We’’ll clean their clocks, too,” Legere added. ’ ’   ”TV isn’’t dead,” Legere said. It’’s just being streamed   across devices. Legere is betting that more than half of all   television shows will be viewed on mobile by the end of the year. ’ ’   Legere thinks the satellite service provider missed its window to   enter the wireless industry and will cease to be a standalone   company. ”Dealer, next hand of cards, please,” Legere said.   ”Thanks for playing, Charlie!” ’ ’   Legere said he is convinced   will beat AT&T and   Verizon in offering customers Gigabit LTE service  —   think of it   as a step above current 4G LTE but not quite the next big leap:   5G. ’ ’   Legere proclaimed that his ”Slow Cooker Sunday” Facebook Live   segments, where he prepares a Sunday dinner in his pressure   cooker (”Most of them suck!” he said) will take on channels   like MTV, Comedy Central, and the Food Network, and go from   around 500, 000 to 1 million viewers. ’ ”   To be clear, a view on Facebook counts as three seconds or more,   and some   sponsored videos surpass 1 million views on   Facebook already. Legere acknowledged this one was goofy, but   suggested his carrier’s impressive social influence would grow   stronger. ” ’   There will be a CEO shuffle, where the CEOs of three of the four   major wireless carriers will be replaced, Legere said,   suggesting, without explicitly saying, he’’s not going to be   one of them. ”I’’ll leave it at that!” Legere said. ’ ’   Legere has criticized Verizon’’s decisions to buy AOL and Yahoo,   and thinks that Verizon will consider another choice he sees   as disastrous: merging with Comcast. ” ’ ’  ’