’  ’ ’   Prosecutors have filed   and     charges against four black suspects accused of beating and   taunting a white man during an attack streamed live on Facebook. ’ ’   Cook County prosecutors on Thursday announced charges against   three     —   Jordan Hill of Carpentersville, Brittany   Covington of Chicago, and Tesfaye Cooper of Chicago  —   and      Tanishia Covington of Chicago. ’ ’   Prosecutors say the four are also charged with aggravated   unlawful restraint and aggravated battery with a deadly weapon.   In addition, three of the suspects have been charged with   residential burglary. ’ ’   The charges stem from an incident that went on for as long as 48   hours. Police said the victim had ”  challenges.” ’ ’   Video of the ordeal, posted on Facebook Live on Wednesday, showed   an unidentified man tied and gagged while a woman recorded.   Others in the video could be heard saying ”    white people” and   ”    Donald Trump.” ’ ’’ ’   ”It’’s sickening,” Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson   said of the graphic images during a press conference on   Wednesday. ”It makes you wonder what would make individuals treat   somebody like that.” ’ ’   According to a statement from the Chicago Police Department   provided to Business Insider, the victim appeared ”disoriented”   when police found him walking near the 3400 block of West   Lexington Street on Wednesday. He was taken to a nearby hospital,   police said. ’ ’   Shortly after the video surfaced on social media, police said   they were able to link the injured man to a residence nearby,   where they discovered signs of a struggle and damage to the   property. ’ ’   One of the suspects, according to police, was a former schoolmate   of the victim. ’ ’   Although people in the video made statements referencing     Donald Trump, who often pointed to Chicago as an   example of   neighborhoods during his campaign,   police said they do not believe the assault was politically or   racially motivated. ’ ’   Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said Thursday morning that the   suspects made ”terrible racist statements” during the attack, but   that investigators believe the victim was targeted because he has   special needs, not because of his race. ’ ”   Guglielmi said it’s possible the suspects were trying to extort   something from the victim’s family. ” ’ Mark Abadi contributed to this report. ’