’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON  —   America’s priciest weapons system  —   the    —   is   continuing its march to full combat capability, but the US isn’t   the only major power working toward a   fighter. ” ’   ”While there are countries that are building their version of a     fighter, they are years and years behind the   capabilities of the ” US Air Force Brig. Gen. Scott   Pleus, director of the   integration office, told Business   Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   Pleus, a former commander of the 56th Fighter Wing at   Luke Air Force Base and a command pilot with just north   of 2, 200 flight hours, said the   ”is leaps and bounds   ahead of anything else in the world today.” ’ ’   In August 2016, US Air Force Gen. Herbert ”Hawk” Carlisle,   commander of Air Combat Command,  (IOC) for a squadron of    ’’s  —   a significant breakthrough for the weapons   program, which has been beset by design flaws, cost   overruns, and technical challenges. ’ ’   Since IOC, the Air Force has trained more than 120 pilots in 100     accruing a combined total of 75, 000 hours of flight time. ’ ’   ”It’’s important to realize that the   program is flying   combat capable today and that our adversaries are trying to   produce the same technology that we have but we are in front of   them, for the time being,” Pleus explained. ’ ’   ”So while, Russia and China have both rolled out a prototype of   their   fighter they have a long way to go until   they’’ve got 75, 000 flying hours on that airframe and more than   100 airplanes in their inventory.” ’ ”   During the Air Force Association’s annual conference in   September, Pleus sat on a panel alongside Carlisle,   Joint   Strike Fighter Program executive officer Lt. Gen. Chris Bogdan,   and 388th Fighter Wing commander Col. David Lyons. ” ’   During  Pleus, who has flown both the     and   described the latter as ”absolutely head and   shoulders above our legacy fleet of fighters currently fielded.” ’ ’   ”This is an absolutely formidable airplane, and one our   adversaries should fear,” he continued. ’ ’  ’ ’   In order to maintain a ”tactical advantage over our   adversaries,” Pleus said the US must continue to modernize   the     and   fighters. ’ ’   ”You can’’t just build an   or an   or whatever the next   generation of fighter is and say, ’’we’’re good. ’’ It constantly has   to be updated because the threat, the folks that want to do us   harm, will constantly upgrade their airplanes and their     weapons on a day to day basis,”   Pleus explained. ’