’  ’ ”   A declassified version of a US intelligence    on Russian hacking did not state whether the Kremlin’s campaign   to discredit Hillary Clinton affected the outcome of the   election. ” ’   Yet   Donald Trump  after his meeting with   intelligence officials that ”there was absolutely no effect on   the outcome of the election.” ’ ’   ”While Russia, China, other countries, outside groups and people   are consistently trying to break through the cyber infrastructure   of our governmental institutions, businesses and organizations   including the Democrat [sic] National Committee, there was   absolutely no effect on the outcome of the election including the   fact that there was no tampering whatsoever with voting   machines,” Trump said in the statement. ’ ’   But the report, from the Office of the Director of National   Intelligence, specifically stated that it did not   assess ”the impact that Russian activities had on the   outcome of the 2016 election.” ’ ’   ”The US Intelligence Community is charged with monitoring and   assessing the intentions, capabilities, and actions of foreign   actors; it does not analyze US political processes or US public   opinion,” the report stated. ’ ’’ ’   The report encompasses US intelligence efforts to determine   who is responsible for hacks of the Democratic National Committee   and Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, as well as a general   ”influence campaign” on the election. ’ ’   ”We assess Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence   campaign in 2016 aimed at the US presidential election,” the   report stated. ”Russia’’s goals were to undermine public faith in   the US democratic process, denigrate Secretary Clinton, and harm   her electability and potential presidency.” ’ ’   The report also concluded that Russia aimed to help Trump win the   election. ’ ’   ”Putin and the Russian Government developed a clear preference   for   Trump,” the report stated.  ’ ’   It continued: ”Putin and the Russian Government aspired to help     Trump’’s election chances when possible by   discrediting Secretary Clinton and publicly contrasting her   unfavorably to him.” The report stated that the CIA and FBI have   high confidence in this judgment and the NSA has moderate   confidence. ’ ”   A spokesperson for Trump didn’t immediately respond to a request   for comment on how Trump reached the conclusion in his statement. ”