’  ’ ’   A US consular official was shot while driving out of a parking   garage in Guadalajara, Mexico, on Friday a little after 6 p. m.   local time. ’ ’   The official,  as  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ”   According to the consulate’s Facebook page, the  a $20, 000 reward for   information leading to the identification of the shooter. ” ”   The shooter was apparently targeting Ashcraft. He asked for the   US official by name at the gym reception desk and then followed   him to his car, a friend of Ashcraft’s  The Washington Post. ” ’   In the footage below, Ashcraft can be seen retrieving a parking   ticket and then walking to his car, with the suspected assailant   following. ’ ’ ’ ’   The friend said Ashcraft was recovering but planned to return to   the US. ” ’ ”   A source within the Guadalajara police department  The Guardian that authorities found US   Drug Enforcement Administration credentials in Ashcraft’s name,   though the US consulate declined to comment on his position. ” ’   The source also suggested the attack was the work of a   professional. ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   Attacks on US officials working in Mexico have happened in the   past, though in some cases the attackers have said the incidents   were the result of mistaken identity. ’ ’   In 2014, Mexican gang leader Arturo Gallegos Castrellon was   sentenced to life in prison for his role  of US consulate employee   Leslie Ann Enriquez Catton, her husband, Arthur Redfels, and   Alberto Salcido Ceniceros, the husband of another consular   employee, in a shooting in Ciudad Juarez. ’ ’   The killings came during  between the   Juarez and Sinaloa cartels for control of Juarez. ’ ’   Prosecutors  that Castrellon was part of a team of   assassins working for Barrio Azteca, an ally of the Juarez   cartel, which had ordered the hits. Several gang members   testified that the killing was an accident, as the trio was in a   car similar to that of members of the Sinaloa cartel. ’ ’   In 2013, a Mexican   lieutenant pleaded guilty to   murder and attempted murder in relation to  who were driving back   to Mexico City after a   trip to northern Mexico. ’ ”   Court documents in the case stated that a Los Zetas cartel   commander attempted to hijack the agents’     armored SUV while they were driving on Highway 57 in San Luis   Potosi state. After Zetas gunmen forced the SUV off the road, the   commander ordered the two agents to get out. ” ’   They refused and tried to identify themselves as American   diplomats, but the gunmen opened fire, killing Zapata and   wounding Avila. ’