’  ’ ”   Amazon’s Alexa, the personal assistant that launched with the   Amazon Echo smart speaker, completely dominated this year’s   Consumer Electronics Show.  ” ’   Just ask anyone: ”” read one Wired   headline.     and many others all had equally   laudatory reports. Companies like  Huawei, LG, as well as a long parade of startups, all   unveiled home appliances, phones, cars, and  with Alexa integration. ’ ”   It’s a reflection of the sheer power that Amazon is   starting to wield in the nascent smart home market,   as a growing number of people come to rely on their   Echo devices to run their homes and to automate their lives. The   market for the Echo is . ” ’   Google already has the  its own   speaker, designed to   compete with the Amazon Echo.  to bring its Cortana virtual   assistant to a smart speaker. Even Apple is rumored to be working   on a dedicated Siri speaker. ’ ’   But so far Amazon is the smart speaker to beat, with an early   start and plenty of buzz. ’ ’  ’ ”   More importantly though, the rise of the Echo heralds a changing   tech landscape that could spell big trouble for Google. No matter   how many Google Home devices the search giant sells, Google   will be playing on a field that’s tilted in Amazon’s favor.  ” ”   A big part of Amazon’s early success with Alexa is due to the   fact that the company didn’t oversell it. After years of iPhone   users getting let down by Siri, the first truly mainstream   voice agent, Amazon billed the Echo as a speaker that, by   the way, has a few smart voice commands built in. ” ’   Then, just as people got accustomed to the idea of   talking to Alexa, and positive word of mouth spread, Amazon added   more capabilities.  that allow it to connect   with apps like Uber, Twitter, and Bloomberg news.  ’ ”   That’s helped Alexa and the Echo speaker earn a position as the   central hub in   smart homes. Alexa’s     interface is the perfect way to manage     lights, door locks, and thermostats  —   it’s way more intuitive   than having to pull out a tablet or phone every two seconds. ” ’  ’ ”   But here’s the crucial part. The Echo also makes it   to   buy stuff, specifically stuff from Amazon. ” ”   Alexa can play music from streaming services like Spotify,   but it defaults to using Amazon’s own Prime Music, which is a   pretty key feature for a smart speaker. It’s yet another reason   for consumers to get a . ..which also gets you free   shipping from Amazon, which encourages you to buy more from   Amazon.  ” ’   In other words, whatever else it does, the Amazon Echo is   designed to make it easier for you to give more of your money to   Amazon. And that slick voice interface for ”skills” and for   controlling all of your smart home gear ensures that you’’re   always using the Echo and Alexa.  ’ ”   It’s pretty genius, in a diabolical way. ” ’   This is where things get bad for Google.  ’ ’   The more Alexa devices that Amazon and its partners sell,   the better Amazon does at its core retail business. Every Echo is   a customer who is more likely to spend more on books, groceries,   music, and movies.  ’ ”   Consider Google’s position, though. It can sell as many Google   Home devices as it wants. And it’s true that Google is better at   search than Amazon, by a country mile. But Google is a search   advertising company, not a retail company, and those Google Home   devices aren’t delivering ads.  ” ’   (Can you imagine if they did? ”OK Google, open the garage door.”   ”Okay, Matt, but listen to this ad for Mailchimp first. ”) ’ ’  ’ ”   Sure Google can use all the data it collects through its Google   Home speaker to refine the ads people see on its search   engine. But the point is that consumers will be spending less   time in front of screens and looking at Google’s search ads. No   matter how good Google’s search ads are, it doesn’t matter if   people aren’t seeing them. ” ”   In fact, we’re already seeing some of this:  because Amazon is the   destination for buying   things. And thanks to the popularity of Amazon’s   Alexa, that’s likely to continue. ” ”   Voice technology is still in its very early stages, and   smartphones aren’t going away anytime soon. ” ”   And none of this is to say that Google’s problems are   insurmountable. It . Today, Facebook is one of   the primary mobile ad platforms. Google could certainly pull off   a similar coup.  ” ”   But the direction in which computing is moving is clear, and as   things stand now, Google’s weakness looks like Amazon’s strength.   And with Alexa on the rise, the clock is ticking for Google. ” ’ Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider   through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. ’