’  ’ ’   It was barely two years ago that   car companies were   putting forth a Utopian vision of driverless cars whizzing   through streets allowing passengers to sleep in      cars. ’ ’   That concept was particularly embodied by Google’’s ”Koala” car  —     a simplistic pod without a steering wheel, brakes, or a gas pedal    —   that drove a blind passenger on public roads in Austin in   2015.  ’ ’   Lyft   John Zimmer boldly declared in September car   ownership will ”” in cities in just 5   years with the advent of the autonomous car fleets Lyft is   developing. Tesla CEO Elon Musk has said the company will have a   fully   car  and is currently   installing hardware in its cars as part of that aim.  ’ ’   Ford also plans to roll out a fleet of  that   come without a steering wheel, brake or gas pedals. Baidu, a   Chinese internet company, plans to use its   cars for   a public shuttle service in 2018 and to mass produce the cars in   2021. ’ ’   So the list is fairly lengthy when it comes to companies   looking to produce completely autonomous cars, some without   driver controls altogether, within the next 5 years. ’ ”   But at this year’s Consumer Electronics Show, Toyota pushed back   on the idea that we are just a few years off from an autonomous   reality.  ” ’   ”I need to make it perfectly clear, [full autonomy is] a   wonderful, wonderful goal. But none of us in the automobile or IT   industries are close to achieving true Level 5 autonomy. We are   not even close,” Gill Pratt, the CEO of the Toyota Research   Institute, said at CES. Level 5 is an industry term for cars that   are fully autonomous and do not require human supervision. ’ ’  ’ ”   Pratt’s comments aren’t particularly surprising when considering   Toyota’s   efforts. When the Toyota Research Institute   was formed in 2015,  the aim was to roll out cars with     features in 2020. The TRI’s ultimate goal is to   build a car incapable of causing a crash, but the Japanese   automaker has always operated on a more conservative timeline. ” ”   But Pratt’s comments are more surprising when considering the   industry at large. Pratt isn’t just saying Toyota can’t achieve   full autonomy in the next 5 years, but that no one can.  ” ”   Nissan also thinks full autonomy is still ways off. Maarten   Sierhuis, Nissan’s head of research and development,  that fully   cars   aren’t going to happen in the next 5 to 10 years.  ” ”   Google’s   car company, Waymo, is still committed to   Level 5 full autonomy where a car doesn’t require any human   supervision whatsoever. However, the company recently ditched its   efforts to have a   car without driver controls   because of the regulatory environment. ” ’  ’ ”   When it comes down to it,   car companies are starting   to pull back on grandiose visions for   cars either   because the tech isn’t ready or the regulatory environment won’t   support it. ” ”   There have already been   examples of these challenges.   Tesla experienced its  while Autopilot was   activated because the system couldn’t see a white trailer   against a brightly lit sky. Tesla has since  saying it could have   potentially prevented the accident from occurring.  ” ’   The accident, which is still under investigation by the National   Highway Traffic Safety Administration, drew criticism from    which called on Tesla to   disable Autopilot. ’ ”   Autopilot isn’t a fully autonomous system, but it   highlights a real tension in the industry: should automakers   release autonomous systems before they’re fully ready? Should   regular human drivers be expected to monitor them   effectively? If the answer is no, then when can we say the tech   is ready enough, and can we really expect that level of   confidence in 5 years? ” ”   Even if the tech is ready, it’s unlikely the government will   support its entry in a mere 5 years. The federal government has   released guidelines for   cars, but has been tepid   about making a concrete plan for their arrival.  ” ’  ’ ”   This isn’t to say   tech is a bad thing  —   autonomous   systems will cut down on the number of traffic fatalities. Around   33, 000 people die in   accidents every year and   it’s not a number we should be taking as lightly. ” ’   Using tech to make cars safer is a good thing. But overpromising   on the tech’’s capabilities has very real consequences. When   Autopilot was first released, there were  of people misusing the   system, like shaving instead of monitoring the car. It’’s possible   that the man who died when Tesla’’s Autopilot system failed   .” ’ ’   But automakers are catching on to these risks and reacting   accordingly. Toyota is  that can keep a driver   engaged while autonomy is still in its relative infancy. Nissan   is exploring  so humans can remotely   intervene when   cars fail. Google is keeping driver   controls. ’ ’   Following the fatal Autopilot accident, Tesla installed a warning   system that will sound if a driver’’s hands aren’’t on the wheel.   If a driver ignores the warning, Autopilot will shut down. Tesla   has also been more careful about how it markets   Autopilot, such as ” from its China website in August. ’ ’   The fact that automakers are being more realistic about the state   of autonomous tech and considering the right way   to introduce it to drivers to should be seen as a good   thing.  ’ ’ This is an opinion column. The thoughts expressed are those   of the author. ’