’  ’ ’   OPEC  ’ ’  ’ ’   Additionally,  also agreed   to tag along soon after. ’ ”   The decision to limit production reverses producers’     strategy of pumping as much oil as possible, and reflects their   desires to end the global supply glut that has kept prices   depressed. ” ”   But here’s the catch: not all barrels are created equally  —     and that has implications for how this production cut will   actually play out. ” ”   First, let’s define some terms. Light crude oil has a low density   and low viscosity, and it flows at room temperature. On the flip   side, heavy crude oil does not flow easily, and has a higher   density than light oil. Moreover, sweet oil has less sulfur,   while sour oil has relatively more sulfur. Generally speaking,   light and sweet oil is  because it needs less retirement and production   time than heavy before it hits the market as refined gasoline and   other products. ” ”   OPEC’s production cuts combined with expected output growth   from the US and former Soviet Union suggest that the barrels that   will actually be pumped and sent to market will trend   lighter and sweeter over the short term, according to   d ” ’  ’ ’Russia’’s production   cuts will likely not come from recently commissioned lighter   crude streams (such as the Filanovsky field in the Caspian Sea)   but will instead be from ”legacy” fields that pump heavier   oil. Additionally, Mexico, which mostly produces heavy crude, and   China, which mostly pumps medium grade oil, have seen production   declines recently, independent of the OPEC cut. Plus,    which produces heavy crude, could see production   drop beyond the OPEC cut requirement amid its   internal political and economic chaos. So, more   heavy and medium barrels have been going offline. ’ ’   All that adds up to more sweet and light crude on the market, at   the same time as a big drop in heavy and medium crude production. ’ ’   And as for why this shift towards light and sweet is   significant, we have to look to the demand side. ”This could   prove problematic given that global oil demand is centered on   growth from only a few key countries, notably China and India,   which own refining slates typically geared toward running medium   and heavier barrels,” Tran said. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the supply side of the story is also worth looking at. Around   2015, analysts argued that a large chunk of the world’’s   oversupply was due to light, sweet barrels ”stuck” in the   Atlantic Basin as producers struggled to find buyers. The most   notable example was Nigeria, which had to slash prices in order   to try to dump its barrels anywhere. ’ ’   Fast forward to today: although the market fundamentals are   different now, it’’s still worth watching the Atlantic   Basin, given that a significant ramp up in production from   the US or the Caspian Sea could have a  ”reverberating   impact of pushing additional light, sweet barrels into the   Atlantic Basin,” writes Tran. ’ ”   And as for why that’s significant, he explained (emphasis   ours): ” ’  ’ ’   The Saudis are now sitting in an interesting position given that   1) over 40% of the OPEC cut will be coming from them, and 2)   nearly 78% of their total production is either light or extra   light oil. ’ ’   In other words, the Saudis could theoretically offset some of the   imbalance in crude quality disparity by cutting more of their   light or extra light production, while continuing to pump heavier   grades of oil. ’ ”   Taking it a step further, cutting more of their light   production would also serve the Saudis’   market   interests because they would then be able to continue   pursuing their goal of penetrating the markets where energy   demand is still growing, such as China and India, which as   noted above, want to buy heavy crude. ” ’   ”We suspect that the Saudis will help to at least mitigate a   portion of the crude quality imbalance by cutting barrels that   are light and sweet in nature to less coveted regions like   Europe, while continuing to penetrate key Asian battleground   regions with medium and heavy crude exports,” Tran wrote. ’ ’   ” ’ ”   As an endnote, this last detail is particularly interesting   given that OPEC’s  decision to not cut production has been   interpreted as the moment Saudi Arabia decided to go after market   share rather than boost prices. ” ” that original strategy did not turn   out exactly as planned, especially in China and India. And   so, if RBC Capital Markets’ analysis is correct, it’s notable   that the Saudis could be trying to get at the region another way. ”