’  ’ ’   As Inauguration Day draws near, thousands of US government   workers tapped by the Obama administration are waiting for a pink   slip from   Donald Trump. ’ ”   It isn’t unusual for a new president to clean house across US   agencies, but neither is keeping a few crucial appointed roles   filled  —   at least until worthy successors are named. This is   especially true of  of the National Nuclear Security Administration   (NNSA) which safeguards America’s stockpile of roughly . ” ”   But according to  Trump’s transition   team just lopped off the top of NNSA’s organization  effectively sending leaders  and  packing on January 20. ” ’   The Trump transition team did not respond to requests for   comment. ’ ’   The apparent implosion of NNSA leadership is the word from an   unnamed ”official within the Department of Energy.” ’ ’   ”According to [Gizmodo’’s] Energy Department source, Trump’’s team   has yet to nominate anyone to succeed them. Since both positions   require Senate confirmation, if could be months before their   chairs are filled. And the vacancies may extend beyond the   leadership roles,” the report said. ’ ’   An anonymous NNSA official  denies Klotz and Creedon were   dismissed. ”There have been no discussions between the    ’s transition team and any of NNSA’s political   appointees on extending their public service past Jan. 20,” the   official said. ’ ’   If Klotz and Creedon were dismissed, it ”doesn’’t make any sense,”    president of the Ploughshares Fund (a global   security foundation) and a nuclear policy expert, told Business   Insider. ’ ’   ”It’’s another one of the unprecedented moves that Trump sees as a   clean sweep but could be very bad for the country,” Cirincione   said. ”You really don’’t want to strip away the senior management   of your nuclear weapons without naming a replacement. The nukes   are basically home alone if you do that.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Cirincione has spent close to a decade on Capitol Hill within the   House committees on Armed Services and Government Operations  —     two groups which help oversee NNSA contract work. ’ ’   He says that NNSA bosses like Klotz and Creedon must sign off for   nuclear weapons contractors to receive payment. ’ ’   If there is no one in their seats, the money can stop flowing. ’ ’   ”It’’s not as bad as not paying the guards of our nuclear weapons,   but it’’s as bad as not paying the people who pay for the guards   of our nuclear weapons,” he said. ’ ’   So, for an organization that may get roughly  this   year alone to maintain ”the safety, security, and effectiveness”   of existing nuclear weapons, as well as oversee new projects   (such as the development of ) even a few leaderless days could   translate into hundreds of millions of dollars’’ worth of missed   payments and possibly compromise essential services. ’ ’   ”If this goes on, you’’ll start seeing contracts ending and a lack   of contractual oversight. You will see an impact on our vast   nuclear complex,” he said. ”Every day, [tens] of millions of   dollars are moving through the pipeline, and it’’s under the   control of the two people [Trump] just dismissed.” ’ ’   Cirincione  —   whose organization wants to  nuclear   weapons, and says he has ”blasted” Klotz and Creedon for   excessive contract costs and delays  —   says that immediately   firing NNSA’’s leadership would not even be necessary or logical,   especially given . ’ ’   ”Both Klotz and Creedon are   . They’’re the ones   in charge of the health of our nuclear weapons,” he said. ”It   doesn’’t make sense. Yes, they were appointed by the Obama   administration, but they’’re  . It’’s not like   they’’ve been blocking things.” ’