’  ’ ’   Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump are expected to divest from   ”substantial assets” in their businesses as the former accepts a   job in   Donald Trump’’s White House administration,    on Monday,   citing transition officials.  ’ ’   The AP also reported that Ivanka will not be taking a job in the   administration. ’ ’   The news came shortly before Kushner was formally announced   as a senior adviser to the  . He will focus on   domestic and foreign policy, particularly on issues related to   the Middle East and international trade. ’ ’   Kushner’’s appointment could be challenged by a 1967     law meant to bar officials from hiring relatives,   but a Kushner lawyer, Jamie Gorelick, said it does not apply to   the White House, citing a later congressional authorization that   gives the president ”unfettered” and ”sweeping” ability to hire   in the Executive Branch. ’ ’   Kushner was expected to resign as CEO of his family’’s real estate   company and as publisher of the New York Observer, as well as   divest from ”substantial assets” he holds, Gorelick said.    He will not be taking a salary in his new West Wing job. ’ ’’ ’   In addition to not taking a formal White House job, Ivanka will   leave her executive role in the Trump Organization and in her   fashion brands, officials said on a conference call with   reporters, according to multiple reports. A Trump transition   spokesman did not immediately return a request for comment from   Business Insider. ’ ’   Both Ivanka and Kushner were exepcted to divest from all   common stock. Ivanka will now receive a series of fixed payments   from a pool of projects, . ’ ’   Trump called Kushner a ”tremendous asset” and ”trusted adviser”   in a statement announcing his appointment. ’ ’   ”I am proud to have him in a key leadership role in my   administration,” Trump said. ”He has been incredibly successful,   in both business and now politics. He will be an invaluable   member of my team as I set and execute an ambitious agenda,   putting the American people first.” ’