’  ’ ’     Donald Trump is pushing Republicans to shorten   their timetable for repealing the Affordable Care Act, the   healthcare law better known as Obamacare. ’ ’   According to  Trump told The Times on   Tuesday that he wanted the ACA immediately repealed and replaced,   calling the law a ”catastrophic event.” ’ ’   Trump appeared to be pushing back at Republicans who have in   recent days suggested delaying a repeal until a full replacement   plan is developed. ’ ’   It also flies in the face of a plan by GOP lawmakers to pass a   bill that would nominally repeal the bill while  by two to four   years to build a replacement. ’ ’ Trump said he wanted Obamacare   to be repealed ”probably sometime next week” and a replacement to   be introduced ”very quickly or simultaneously.” ’ ’’ ’   This is a massive undertaking given the complexity of the ACA. ’ ’ that a long time for getting   repeal done ”would be weeks” and that he did not favor a      strategy that would take years to roll back the   ACA. ’ ’   A bill currently in front of Senate committee would repeal most   of Obamacare using a process known as budget reconciliation and   has a deadline for January 27 to bring a full repeal bill to the   Senate. ’ ’   There has been  of the ACA among   Republicans, however. Five GOP senators proposed an amendment to   the bill on Monday night to extend this deadline to March 3 to   give lawmakers more time to come to an agreement on a replacement   bill. ’ ’   The leader of the amendment, Sen. Bob Corker, of Tennessee,    could be found   that would keep the more than 23 million people who have gained   access to health insurance through the ACA from seeing a   disruption in their coverage. ’ ’   ”By extending the deadline for   instructions   until March, Congress and the incoming administration will each   have additional time to get the policy right,”  on Monday night. ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan  that Republican leaders   wanted to repeal and replace the ACA ”concurrently.” Ryan said   Republicans had a plan to replace the law  —   most likely referring   to his ”Better Way” healthcare proposal  —   but GOP leadership has   not advanced a specific bill. ’ ’   Additionally, numerous GOP senators including   and  have all expressed a desire to wait until a full   replacement plan is ready to go before repealing the law. ’ ’   In addition to lighting a fire under Republicans,  that he was taking on Democrats as well.   Democrats have said they will not assist Republicans on any   replacement or repeal of Obamacare, saying any such plan would   ”make America sick again.” ’ ’ that Democrats had numerous senators   up for reelection in 2018 in states carried by the     in November. Trump said he would ”be out there   campaigning” in those states and those Democrats should therefore   assist with the new healthcare bill. ’