’  ’ ’   The news came out Monday that Iranian   craft had once   again harassed US Navy ships in the Persian Gulf with unsafe and   unprofessional behavior, . ’ ’   The incident, the first of its type reported this year, follows a    in 2016, the US Navy has told Business Insider. ’ ”   Iran’s ability to undermine the West, to harass their ships in   international waters, and to look militarily strong while having   weak conventional forces owes to Tehran’ ;expert handling of the   US diplomatically and militarily, according to Behnam Ben   Taleblu, a senior Iran analyst at the . ” ’   Although the US lists Iran as the No. 1 state sponsor of terror   and has accordingly moved to sanction Iran over the past few   decades, the actions have not been enough to deter Iran.   According to Taleblu, ”sanctions are an important step, but   they’re not the only step.” ’ ’   In addition to sanctions, the US would benefit from a signaling   its resolve against Iran, where the Obama administration has been   seen as ”” in confronting them. ’ ’   The US ”need[s] to make sure our commanders and CENTCOM (the US   command responsible for the Middle East region) have a free hand    —   not to go rogue  —   but so they do not feel politically   encumbered to defend themselves, US vessels, and partners in the   region,” said Taleblu. ’ ’  ’ ’   Retired Navy Captain Lawrence Brennan, also an expert on   international maritime law and the rules of engagement, told   Business Insider the US Navy’’s response so far has been ”measured   and appropriate under the circumstances,” but also noted that it   was likely muted somewhat by concerns over Iran’’s nuclear program   in an incident that ”seems to be near the edge,” of militarily   actionable behavior. ’ ’   Others say that the Navy has exercised too much restraint under a   president striving to improve ties with Iran, and that may be   actually encouraging Iran to act aggressively. ’ ’   Former US Navy Commander Jeremy Vaughan stressed  that   the strategic goals of the Obama administration may have confined   Navy commanders to more docile responses to Iranian aggression. ’ ’  ’ ’   According to Vaughan, even when Navy commanders have established   the ”threat triangle” (determining that a threat has the   capability, opportunity, and intent to harm the US Navy) sailors   have not responded with force in keeping with naval guidance. ’ ’   A specific example comes from the  on a   broken down boat by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’’ navy   during which the boat captain said he had thought the following:   ”the Commander in Chief would not want me to start a war over a   mistake, over a misunderstanding.” ’ ’   So while no direct decree from the president has hamstrung the   Navy, the overall political climate deterred a more forceful   action. ’ ’  ’ ’   Taleblu explained that the reason Iran is ”an enduring threat,   even though it’s a weak state, is because it fights   asymmetrically.” ’ ’   According to Taleblu, understanding Iran’’s strategy requires      Iran’’s navy, soundly defeated by US ships in the Persian Gulf,   never fully recovered after the conflict. The US ”went after   their frigates and destroyers. Now Iran goes after us with these   little speedboats,” said Taleblu. ’ ’   Iran ”cannot fight a set piece war against America. That’s why   its military is framed the way it is,” said Taleblu. Instead,   Iran focuses on sending weapons to terrorist organizations that   oppose the US and their allies. ’ ’   For example, Iran  during Operation Iraqi Freedom. More recently, Iran   has been tied, though not conclusively, to providing     missiles that Houthi militants  ’ ’   Despite being a smaller country with a conventionally weaker   military, Iran has proven a ”competent adversary capable of   learning,” says Taleblu. ’ ’  ’ ”   Meanwhile, pursuing nuclear weapons has worried the US enough to   engage with them diplomatically. The Iranian deal only addresses   nuclear weapons and doesn’t include effective measures to combat   its ballistic missile program. ” ’   The lack of restrictions on Iran’’s ballistic missile program,   which could easily be modified to create nuclear ballistic   missiles, ”is a direct result of the failure of the Obama   administration to include ballistic missiles in talks with   Tehran,” said Taleblu. ’ ’   So Iran openly sponsors terror, and tests ballistic missiles with   slogans that  ”Israel should be wiped off the Earth”   printed on the side. ’ ’   ”The launches actually make the US look weak,” said Taleblu. Iran   ”does it to poke a finger in the eye of the West,” and have been   allowed to because the  when they curbed Iran’’s nuclear program, said   Taleblu. ’ ’   Iran has masterfully employed cheap, asymmetrical means of   keeping their enemies, the US and its allies, off balance. Iran   lacks a modern air force, which would be terribly expensive, so   instead Tehran is pursuing the development of ballistic missiles   to continue engaging in terror while simultaneously deterring   attacks on their homeland said Taleblu. ’ ’   Since Iran has not engaged in overt military actions, the US   military cannot fight Tehran head on. Iran instead spreads its   influence through a diverse group of regional proxies in a move   that the US cannot address simply by force. ’ ’   ”The cost of the US fighting Iran is so prohibitive [that the US   is] just forced to absorb the provocations,” said Taleblu. ’