”   Fox News anchor Shep Smith on Wednesday defended CNN after     Donald Trump belittled one of the   network’s journalists at a press conference over   a controversial report. ” ’   ”  Trump today told CNN’’s Jim Acosta that his   organization amounts to fake news,” Smith said.  ’ ”   Smith referred to CNN’s Tuesday report that top intelligence   officials presented Trump with information that Russian   operatives claimed they possessed compromising   information about him. The information presented to Trump,   CNN reported, was based on a   dossier which BuzzFeed later   published in full on its website. ” ’  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tHere’s what Shep had to say about  ’s criticism of the media   ” ’   ”Though we at FOX News cannot confirm CNN’’s report,” Smith   continued, ”it is our observation that its correspondents   followed journalistic standards and that neither they nor any   other journalists should be subjected to belittling and   delegitimizing by the   of the United States.” ’ ’’ ’   For its part, CNN defended its own coverage in a statement on   Thursday, distancing itself from BuzzFeed. ’ ’   ”CNN’’s decision to publish carefully sourced reporting about the   operations of our government is vastly different than BuzzFeed’’s   decision to publish unsubstantiated memos,” said a statement from   the network. ”The Trump team knows this. They are using   BuzzFeed’’s decision to deflect from CNN’’s reporting, which has   been matched by the other major news organizations.” ’ ’   The statement continued: ”We made it clear that we were not   publishing any of the details of the   document because we   have not corroborated the report’’s allegations,” the statement   continued. ”Given that members of the Trump transition team have   so vocally criticized our reporting, we encourage them to   identify, specifically, what they believe to be inaccurate.” ’ ’ shared with its employees, BuzzFeed defended   its decision to release the memo despite hesitation by other   media outlets to publish the unverified claims. ’ ’   ”We stand with Ben on his decision to publish this newsworthy   document, which was reported on by multiple news outlets and seen   by   government officials including the president and   ” cofounder and CEO Jonah Peretti wrote referring   to Ben Smith, BuzzFeed’’s editor in chief. ’ ’   ”As a result of this decision, we were criticized by the incoming   administration,” Peretti continued. ”We are not going to respond   to these divisive comments, which put us in great company by the   way  —   The New York Times, CNN, and The Washington Post have all   been attacked. So has Meryl Streep and the cast of Hamilton, but   we’’d never compare ourselves to people that talented.” ’ ’   ”We are going to keep doing what we do best, which is deliver   impactful journalism,” the BuzzFeed cofounder concluded. ’