’  ’ ”   Sen. Cory Booker forcefully denounced   Donald   Trump’s pick for attorney general on Wednesday in a passionate   testimony that broke with longstanding Senate tradition. ” ’   The New Jersey Democrat assailed the record of Sen. Jeff Sessions   of Alabama, saying the Republican’’s voting record suggests a   ”hostility” toward civil rights and criminal justice reform. ’ ’   ”Sen. Sessions has not demonstrated a commitment to a central   requisite of the job: to aggressively pursue the congressional   mandate of civil rights, equal rights, and justice for all of our   citizens,” Booker said before the Senate Judiciary Committee. ”In   fact, at numerous times in his career, he has demonstrated a   hostility towards these convictions and has worked to frustrate   attempts to advance these ideals.” ’ ”   Booker’s   testimony was unprecedented in that it   may have been the first time one sitting senator testified   against another nominated for a Cabinet post. ” ’   Booker acknowledged the unusual move during his testimony. ’ ’   ”I believe, like perhaps all of my colleagues in the Senate, that   in the choice between standing with Senate norms or standing up   for what my conscience tells me is best for our country, I will   always choose conscience and country,” he said. ’ ”   Democrats and civil rights advocates have pounced on  which includes criticism of the Voting   Rights Act, which banned racial discrimination at the polls, as   well as concern over the Justice Department’s promotion of   minority rights. ” ’   ”The next attorney general must bring hope and healing to this   country, and this demands a more courageous empathy than Sen.   Sessions’’ record demonstrates,” Booker said. ’ ’   ”If one is to be attorney general, they must be willing to   continue the hallowed tradition in our country of fighting for   justice for all, for equal justice, for civil rights,” he added. ’ ”   Meanwhile, some Republican lawmakers remained skeptical of   Booker’s intentions, including Rep. Chris Collins, a vocal Trump   supporter. ” ’   ”It’’s not surprising at all that Cory Booker is the one pulling   this off,”  on Tuesday. ”What Cory Booker is doing is   nothing but being   grabbing the headlines.” ’ ”   Sessions’ nomination, however, is expected to be approved by the     Senate. ” ’ ’ ”WATCH: Complete statement from Senator  first Senator to testify against fellow Senator’s cabinet nomination. ”