’  ’ ”   Army veteran Oscar Vazquez delivered a powerful testimony   against Donald Trump’s attorney general nominee Jeff Sessions on   Wednesday, arguing the Republican senator would not protect   immigrants in the United States. ” ”   The testimony came as Democrats and     advocates wage a confirmation battle to block Sessions from   the nation’s top   post. ” ’   Vazquez was born in Mexico, and immigrated to the US with his   mother at age 12 when they crossed the border into Arizona. ’ ”   During his testimony, he made indirect criticism of Sessions’    particularly his   opposition to the DREAM Act, a proposal that would open a path to   citizenship for some undocumented immigrants. ” ’   ”Our country’’s top   officer must be someone   who understands that immigrants make our country stronger,”   Vazquez said.  ’ ’   ”We need an attorney general who will protect the   American people from those who will do us harm, but who   would also show mercy to those who deserve it.” ’ ’   Vazquez said his undocumented status initially prevented him   from joining the military, and only became a citizen following a   lengthy legal battle that involved leaving his American wife for   a year to   to the US. After gaining citizenship, he    and served two tours in Afghanistan. ’ ’   ”I was following in the footsteps of countless other   immigrants who have proudly served the United States,”   Vazquez said.  ’ ’   He continued: ”In Afghanistan, I fought side by side with my   Army brothers. We wore the same uniform, wore the   US flag on the same shoulder. It mattered more that we   were willing to die for each other and our country than   where we came from.” ’ ’   Vazquez, now living with his family in Texas, said he plans   to join the US Army Reserve, and said he felt he was ”living   the American dream.” He insisted to the Senate Judiciary   Committee that other undocumented immigrants must be   shown similar leniency.  ’ ’   ”Having legal status changed my life,” Vazquez said. ”I can’’t   imagine what it would be like to have that taken away from me.” ’ ’ ’