’  ’ ’   A group of former heads of state  to President Barack Obama urging him to   commute the sentences of more   drug offenders in the   final days of his presidency. ’ ’   The letter was signed by nine former leaders  —   all members of the     Global Commission on Drug Policy  —   including César   Gaviria, the president of Colombia when the drug kingpin Pablo   Escobar was assassinated; former Brazilian President Fernando   Henrique Cardoso; and former Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo. ’ ’   The   acknowledged that Obama during his tenure commuted   the sentences of more than 1, 000 inmates serving sentences for   nonviolent drug crimes. But they pushed the president to do more   before   Donald Trump takes office on January 20. ’ ’   ”There are still thousands more incarcerated in federal   correctional facilities, serving long sentences for drug offenses   that were nonviolent in nature,” the letter says. ’ ’   ”We hope, therefore, that in these final days of your presidency,   you will use the power of your office to commute even more prison   sentences of   drug offenders, and restore dignity and   hope to their lives.” ’ ’   The    is a panel of leaders, including former UN   Kofi   Annan, that encourages state governments to reevaluate the   punitive approach to drug regulation in favor of methods like   decriminalization. ’ ’  ’ ’   The letter calls the use and possession of drugs a ”private   decision” that should be ”protected by the principle of   individual rights.” ’ ’   ”The state should interfere in a private decision only if it puts   society, public safety, and public health at risk,” the letter   says. ’ ”   The former leaders also wrote that they hope Obama’s record on   commutations will inspire Trump to do the same. The    ’s pick for attorney general, Sen. Jeff Sessions,   will likely  however. ” ’   ”We further acknowledge your respect for the laws passed by   referendum in many states regarding the regulation of marijuana,”   the former leaders wrote, addressing Obama directly, ”and hope   that the will of the people to reform drug policies will continue   to be heard.” ’