’  ’ ’   Democrats loudly voiced their displeasure with FBI Director James   Comey during a   briefing to discuss Russian hacking on   Friday, according to multiple reports. ’ ’   Several lawmakers  that some in attendance, including former   Democratic National Committee chairwoman Debbie     confronted Comey about how he handled the   scandal surrounding Russian actors hacking Democratic Party   institutions, including the DNC. ’ ’     reportedly told Comey that he should have come   directly to the DNC with the information about the hacking. Comey   responded that he followed the proper procedure in   notifying DNC officials of the breach, according to The   Hill. ’ ’   One Democrat reportedly shouted at Comey: ”You let us down!” ’ ’   Lawmakers at the meeting referenced a tense final 15 minutes, but   did not elaborate on what exactly was discussed during the final   part of the briefing. ’ ’’ ’   ”I’’m disappointed, outraged  —   many of us are right now,” Rep. Tim   Walz, a Democrat from Minnesota, . ”I’’ll wait to pass full judgment, but the   exchange that just happened in the final 15 minutes gives me no   reason to have confidence.” ’ ’   He continued: ”I was nonjudgmental until the last 15 minutes. I   no longer have that confidence in him.” ’ ’   Rep. Charlie Crist, a Democrat from Florida, said he wants to   have faith in Comey but that he has ”concerns.” ’ ’   And Rep. Elijah Cummings, the senior Democrat on the House   Oversight and Government Reform Committee, made a similar   statement. ’ ’   ”I’’m extremely concerned  —   extremely,” he said. ’ ’   WikiLeaks and other websites posted leaked emails from the DNC   and Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta in the weeks   and months leading up to the election. ’ ”   Comey came under fire during the election for announcing a new   element of an FBI investigation into Clinton, who was then the   Democratic nominee for president, just weeks before   Americans headed to the polls. Some Democrats have accused him of   swaying the election in Trump’s favor with the move. ” ”   The Department of Justice’s Office of the Inspector General   announced a new examination Thursday into the FBI’s handling of   the investigation of Clinton’s email use.  ” ”   The probe will focus on Comey’s public announcement of the   department’s decision not to bring charges against Clinton for   her use of a private server. It will also examine the letter   that Comey sent Congress days before the general election   announcing that the FBI had renewed its investigation into the   server, and other aspects of the Clinton investigation. ”