’  ’ ”   During his confirmation hearing earlier this week,     Donald Trump’s pick for secretary of state   articulated his strategy for defeating ISIS in Syria  —   and it   sounded very similar to what the Obama administration has been   doing since the terror group established itself in   the country. ” ’   Former Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson told the Senate Foreign   Affairs Committee that he thinks the US should focus on   wiping out the terrorist group ISIS in Syria before   figuring out what to do about Syrian President Bashar    . ’ ’   The civil war in Syria has been raging on for almost six years as   rebels  —   some of whom are Islamic terrorists  —   fight to oust   Assad, whose brutal regime has been responsible for more civilian   deaths than any terror group in the country. ’ ’   ”We’’ve had two competing priorities in Syria under this   administration: ’’Bashar   must go’’ and the defeat of   ISIS,” Tillerson said. ”And the truth of the matter is, carrying   both of those out simultaneously is extremely difficult   because at times they conflict with one another.” ’ ’   He continued: ”The clear priority is to defeat ISIS. We defeat   ISIS, we at least create some level of stability in Syria which   then lets us deal with the next priority of what is going to be   the exit of Bashar  .” ’ ’   But while the Obama administration has indeed called for Assad to   step down, the US has not made his ouster a priority. And when   President Barack Obama had the chance to act on a  he set forth in 2012, he ended up deciding not to   take military action against Assad. ’ ’   The clear priority for the US in Syria over the past few years   has always been defeating ISIS. ’ ’   ”I don’’t see any big daylight between what Tillerson said and   what Obama’’s administration has been doing,” Robert Ford, a   senior fellow at the Middle East Institute and Yale University   who was the US ambassador to Syria from 2011 to 2014, told   Business Insider. ’ ’   Ford noted that for the last two and a half years of US   involvement in Syria, ”it’’s been abundantly clear that the   Islamic State is the heavy priority and not the Assad   government.” ’ ”   Many Syria experts say this is misguided because ISIS’   presence in Syria is fostered by Assad’s continued hold on   power. ” ’   ”The key problems we face center on the effects of Assad regime   mass homicide: a recruiting bonanza for Islamist extremists,   spillover effects that embolden Russia and hurt allies, and the   signature humanitarian abomination (to date) of the 21st   century,” Fred Hof, a former special adviser for transition in   Syria under Hillary Clinton, then the secretary of state, told   Business Insider in an email.  ’ ’   ”This is why a strategy that separates Assad and ISIS would be   doomed to failure,” he added. ”Assad and ISIS are joined at   the hip.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The Assad regime theoretically fights ISIS, and vice versa, but   the real targets for destruction in Syria are the moderate rebel   groups whose primary goal is to oust Assad. ’ ’   Assad knows that ISIS and Al   groups in Syria will   never be able to rule the country legitimately because the West   will never work with them. Therefore, the real threat to   Assad come from the rebels whom the West could in theory support. ’ ”   Because of this dynamic, the Assad regime and its   allies aren’t going to completely wipe out radical extremist   groups as long as moderate rebels are still fighting. ” ”   But extremist groups are still fighting the Assad regime, and   because they are often better equipped than other rebel groups,   Syrians who are desperate to oust Assad join up out of   practicality. Assad’s regime also allowed ISIS to grow and   prosper in the first place. ” ’   ”The connection between Assad’’s atrocities against mainly Sunni   Arab civilians and the ability of ISIS and other Islamist   extremists to recruit and prosper is ” said   Hof, who is now the director of the Rafik Hariri Center for   the Middle East at the Atlantic Council.  ’ ’   Hof continued: ”What’’s been lacking is a strategy that recognizes   and acts upon the linkage  —   the symbiotic relationship  —   between   a murderous Assad regime and the extremist groups it has helped   spawn.” ’ ’   Ford said the solution to the crisis in Syria has to be both   military and political. ’ ’   ”A lot of experts would say Assad’’s government itself has   created a lot of the conditions that spur recruitment into   Islamic terrorist groups,” he said. ”The problem is not so much   military as it is political having to do with grievances against   a brutal, repressive government.” ’ ’   Ford said he think it has ”always made more sense to prioritize   Assad over the Islamic State.” ’ ’  ’ ’   One victor in the Syrian civil war has been Russia, a country   that has been increasingly hostile to the US. Russia entered the   fray in Syria in 2015 to support the Assad regime. Since then,   the Russian military has helped the regime win a series of   victories against   rebels. ’ ’   While Russia initially said it was intervening in Syria to fight   ISIS, it has become clear that bolstering the Assad regime is   its real priority. ’ ’   Tillerson himself noted that the Syrian civil war ”has provided a   convenient open door for Russia to now establish a presence in   the Middle East, a region that it has long been absent from.” ’ ’   Iran, another country that is no friend to the US, has also been   exerting its influence in Syria to support Assad. ’ ’   Tillerson also insisted that the US must have a plan for who   would replace Assad if he were to be forced from power. ’ ’   ”We need to answer the question, what comes next? What is going   to be the government structure in Syria, and can we have any   influence over that or not?” Tillerson asked. ’ ’   Hof disagreed with this sentiment. ’ ’   ”Although it is troubling to assign stabilizing qualities to a   mass murderer, the issue of who ultimately replaces Assad is a   bit of a red herring: he has    a state and there   has been no American effort to overthrow him,” he said.   ”Besides, did the world agonize in 1945 over who would replace   Hitler?” ’