’  ’ ’   ELLENTON, Fla. (AP)  —   After 146 years, the curtain is coming down   on ”The Greatest Show on Earth.” The owner of the Ringling Bros.   and Barnum & Bailey Circus told The Associated Press that the   show will close forever in May. ’ ’   The iconic American spectacle was felled by a variety of factors,   company executives say. Declining attendance combined with high   operating costs, along with changing public tastes and prolonged   battles with animal rights groups all contributed to its demise. ’ ’   ”There isn’’t any one thing,” said Kenneth Feld, chairman and CEO   of Feld Entertainment. ”This has been a very difficult decision   for me and for the entire family.” ’ ’   The company broke the news to circus employees Saturday night   after shows in Orlando and Miami. ’ ’   Ringling Bros. has two touring circuses this season and will   perform 30 shows between now and May. Major stops include   Atlanta, Washington, Philadelphia, Boston and Brooklyn. The final   shows will be in Providence, Rhode Island, on May 7 and in   Uniondale, New York, at the Nassau County Coliseum on May 21. ’ ’’ ’   The circus, with its exotic animals, flashy costumes and     acrobats, has been a staple of entertainment in the   United States since the  . Phineas Taylor Barnum made a   traveling spectacle of animals and human oddities popular, while   the five Ringling brothers performed juggling acts and skits from   their home base in Wisconsin. Eventually, they merged and the   modern circus was born. The sprawling troupes traveled around   America by train, wowing audiences with the sheer scale of   entertainment and exotic animals. ’ ”   By midcentury, the circus was routine, wholesome family   entertainment. But as the 20th century went on, kids became less   and less enthralled. Movies, television, video games and the   internet captured young minds. The circus didn’t have savvy   product merchandising   or Saturday morning cartoons to   shore up its image. ” ’   ”The competitor in many ways is time,” said Feld, adding that   transporting the show by rail and other circus quirks  —   such as   providing a traveling school for performers’’ children —   are   throwbacks to another era. ”It’’s a different model that we can’’t   see how it works in today’’s world to justify and maintain an   affordable ticket price. So you’’ve got all these things working   against it.” ’ ’   The Feld family bought the Ringling circus in 1967. The show was   just under 3 hours then. Today, the show is 2 hours and 7   minutes, with the longest segment  —   a tiger act  —   clocking in at   12 minutes. ’ ’   ”Try getting a   or    today to sit for 12 minutes,” he   said. ’ ”   Feld and his daughter Juliette Feld, who is the company’s chief   operating officer, acknowledged another reality that led to the   closing, and it was the one thing that initially drew millions to   the show: the animals. Ringling has been targeted by activists   who say forcing animals to perform is cruel and unnecessary. ” ’   In May of 2016, after a long and costly legal battle, the company   removed the elephants from the shows and sent the animals to live   on a conservation farm in Central Florida. The animals had been   the symbol of the circus since Barnum brought an Asian elephant   named Jumbo to America in 1882. In 2014, Feld Entertainment won   $25. 2 million in settlements from groups including the Humane   Society of the United States, ending a   fight over   allegations that circus employees mistreated elephants. ’ ’   By the time the elephants were removed, public opinion had   shifted somewhat. Los Angeles prohibited the use of   by   elephant trainers and handlers, as did Oakland, California. The   city of Asheville, North Carolina nixed wild or exotic animals   from performing in the municipally owned,   U. S.   Cellular Center. ’ ’   Attendance has been dropping for 10 years, said Juliette Feld,   but when the elephants left, there was a ”dramatic drop” in   ticket sales. Paradoxically, while many said they didn’’t want big   animals to perform in circuses, many others refused to attend a   circus without them. ’ ’   ”We know now that one of the major reasons people came to   Ringling Bros. was getting to see elephants,” she said. ”We stand   by that decision. We know it was the right decision. This was   what audiences wanted to see and it definitely played a major   role.” ’ ’   The Felds say their existing animals  —   lions, tigers, camels,   donkeys, alpacas, kangaroos and llamas  —   will go to suitable   homes. Juliette Feld says the company will continue operating the   Center for Elephant Conservation. ’ ”   Some 500 people perform and work on both touring shows. A handful   will be placed in positions with the company’s other, profitable   shows  —   it owns Monster Jam, Disney on Ice and Marvel Live, among   other things  —   but most will be out of a job. Juliette Feld said   the company will help employees with job placement and resumes.   In some cases where a circus employee lives on the tour rail car   (the circus travels by train) the company will also help with   housing relocation. ” ’   Kenneth Feld became visibly emotional while discussing the   decision with a reporter. He said over the next four months, fans   will be able to say goodbye at the remaining shows. ’ ’   In recent years, Ringling Bros. tried to remain relevant, hiring   its first African American ringmaster, then its first female   ringmaster, and also launching an interactive app. It added   elements from its other, popular shows, such as motorbike   daredevils and ice skaters. But it seemingly was no match for   Pokemon Go and a generation of kids who desire familiar brands   and YouTube celebrities. ’ ’   ”We tried all these different things to see what would work, and   supported it with a lot of funding as well, and we weren’’t   successful in finding the solution,” said Kenneth Feld. ’