’Friday 5 p. m.: Congress has taken the  of the Affordable Care Act   (ACA) better known as Obamacare. ’ ”   Republicans in both the House of Representatives and the Senate   passed a resolution that begins the process of repealing   President Obama’s signature healthcare law. ” ’   The resolution directs members of relevant committees to draft a   repeal bill through the   process. ’ ’   With  over whether or not to complete the   repeal process before a replacement plan is finalized and   strident Democratic resistance to any repeal of the ACA, it   appears that there is a significant fight ahead over the future   of American healthcare, which could lead the process down the   long, winding road to Trumpcare. ’ ’  ’ ’     Donald Trump, along with Republican leaders in   Congress, says he’’s committed to repealing and replacing   Obamacare with something ”.”   Republicans have put forth a variety of different replacement   plans, but it’’s unclear what the final version will look like.   And the path to get to the implementation of a replacement could   take many forms. ’ ’   Imagine it’’s like a board game where there are a number of ways   to get to a replacement. One is fast and efficient, another   winding and full of obstacles. We call it ”The Road to   Trumpcare,” and we’’ll be updating the game as Congress and the   new administration make their moves. ’ ”   The player in our game is a hypothetical Obamacare participant.   We’ll call her Martha. She’s a    from Tennessee and    . Martha used the federal Healthcare. gov platform to   sign up for her insurance two years ago and has been reenrolling   every year; she receives some tax credits for her premiums since   she makes roughly $45, 000 a year. ” ’   While an  get their health insurance from   employers or a   program like Medicare or   Medicaid, Martha is  who signed up for an     plan for 2017.  according to the Department of   Health and Human Services, also receive subsidies for their   coverage. ’ ”   Martha is a bit frustrated that there are  and  but she is glad to have coverage   because she has Crohn’s disease, which could have . ” ’   To get a better understanding of what a    could   mean to someone such as Martha, here are the four major scenarios   for how lawmakers can address or not address the future of   Obamacare. ’ ’  ’ ’   The fastest and least disruptive path for Republicans to follow   would be to repeal Obamacare and advance a replacement bill at   the same time. ’ ’   The GOP could use a procedure  in the Senate to strip away   most of the provisions of Obamacare, specifically those that cost   the government money, without the need for a single Democrat   vote. Then, simultaneously, Republicans would need to go through   typical lawmaking to pass a replacement bill and create some sort   of new exchanges. ’ ’   House Speaker Ryan and  both seemed to favor this option. In fact, Ryan   told CNN that some of the repeal and replace measures  ’ ’ associate director for the Program for the Study of   Health Reform and Private Insurance at the nonpartisan health   think tank Kaiser Family Foundation, this would be the ideal   option for patients in the event of a repeal. ’ ’   ”This would provide both insurers and patients a clear picture of   what’’s going to happen fairly quickly, which would prevent   disruptions to the market,” said Cox. ”Though, a lot of this   depends on the replacement bill that the Republicans come up   with.” ’ ”   This would likely be the least disruptive for Martha’s coverage   since it would ensure that there would be no period in which the   exchanges that she uses are not funded or have no federal   support. For one thing, as long as Martha reenrolls in her plan   during the current   period, she will have   insurance through 2017. ” ’   A quick replacement could be in place for the 2018 plan year, and   depending on what the replacement is, Martha may not notice any   effect on her coverage at all. ’ ”   A lot of this hinges on the details of the Republicans’ plan.   Since Martha receives subsidies to help cover the costs of her   plan, a number of the  could affect how   much she receives. Additionally, a number of plans would  which are separate markets   reserved just for people with preexisting conditions.  and generally had   astronomically high costs and limited utilization. ” ”   The other issue is that any change to the law may be rejected by   Democrats. If Republicans want to make any larger changes outside   the budget process they would need Democrats on   board.  Additionally, if even a few   Republicans in the Senate don’t like the replacement, that could   sidetrack the process. If the GOP moves ahead with the repeal   while Democrats object to changes to the law, it could make the   road that Martha is on even more winding. ” ’  ’ ’   One of the first scenarios floated by Republicans was a partial   repeal of the law under what is called budget reconciliation  —     delaying  so that Republicans can craft a full   replacement bill. This would pass a law that says the ACA will be   repealed in the future,  effectively delaying   the end of the ACA. ’ ’   In theory, this allows GOP lawmakers to advance the political   goal of repeal while giving enough time to develop a   comprehensive plan for replacement. The exchanges set up by   Obamacare could be intact, meaning that the more than  would still be   covered, while Republicans devise a plan that would replace the   ACA and keep these people covered, as numerous GOP lawmakers have   promised. ’ ’   Since the delay aspect could stretch the replacement process out   up to four years, this would allow the GOP time to build a   consensus on a replacement. It would also be politically   beneficial since it would push the repeal out past the 2018   midterms or 2020 presidential election. ’ ’   Republicans could avoid political fallout if the replacement plan   falls short of expectations, and they could build a larger   majority in the Senate to pass the bill without worrying about a   filibuster. ’ ’   According to Cox, while the plan sounds good, there are a few   problems that could arise with this strategy. ’ ’   ”Depending on the parts of the law that are repealed through the   reconciliation process, you could see destabilization in the   individual insurance market,” Cox told Business Insider. ’ ’   According to Cox, without an individual mandate for people to   sign up for insurance, there would be significant numbers of   younger people leaving the individual market, which would lead to   a pool of even older and sicker people in the exchanges. ’ ’   In a   scenario, this would lead to a . Businesses   hate uncertainty, so it is likely that with the exchanges’’   futures in doubt, insurance companies would simply pull out   completely.  and   not renew their policies, leaving only the sickest patients in   the marketplace causing, as Cox called it, ”a real death spiral,”   repeating the turn of phrase used by Republicans to describe   Obamacare’’s growing issues. ’ ’   Also, by leaving just the sickest Americans in these exchanges,   premiums for those who remain behind would be much higher than   the current increases. ’ ’   ”If the individual mandate were to be repealed without   countermeasures, it would cause very large increases in the cost   of premiums,” Cox said. ”These increases would make what we’’ve   seen in the market so far look small.” ’ ’   There are, of course, ways to mitigate this. For one, Republicans   could extend and enhance certain measures, called reinsurance and   risk corridors, which help to provide money for insurers that   take on a higher percentage of sick patients. This would help   decrease the large losses some insurers are reporting and   possibly inspire more companies to offer plans on the exchanges. ’ ’   Many GOP lawmakers, however, have referred to  so that may be politically   untenable. ’ ”   This plan takes her down our game’s long and winding road, full   of stops and starts and pitfalls along with way. As debates over   the repeal continue, Martha could be stuck in a car she has no   control over, stalled out and awaiting updates about her   coverage. The process could take years. ” ’   Republicans, through reconciliation, would have options to pull   funding for the law in a few different ways while crafting a   replacement. They could simply roll back the taxes associated   with the law, they could also repeal the individual mandate that   all people have to buy insurance, or they could pull all funding   including subsidies people like Martha get or eliminate Medicaid   expansion. All these would create a different level of disruption   to the market. ’ ”   In the   scenario for Martha, the individual mandate is   maintained to ensure stability of the individual market until   some other plan is proposed. While Martha doesn’t see her   premiums or deductibles shrink, nothing goes too awry. Also,   lawmakers provide enough assurances to insurers that they stay in   the market, preventing a   situation in Martha’s   market and higher costs. ” ’   In the   scenario, these four factors go the opposite   way. Insurers, facing the uncertainty of the next two to four   years, decide to exit the markets leaving Martha with just one or   even no choices for coverage. With only a small penalty, people   healthier than Martha leave the exchanges, which leads to an even   sicker group of people being covered by the exchanges and higher   prices for Martha. The ”death spiral” predicted by GOP lawmakers   for Obamacare truly does set in and prices shoot to astronomical   levels, well above projections made before the passing of the   law. Concerned that allowing a lapse in her coverage could cause   her to be denied coverage in a replacement because of her   preexisting condition, Martha sticks with the ever more expensive   coverage ’ ’  ’ ’   A third option for ACA changes would be to simply pass a few   bills that make minor but needed adjustments to the law   without a   repeal. ’ ’   Democrats may be more amenable to this option. They have long   pushed for reforms to the ACA, recognizing the increasing premium   costs. Some ideas floated by Democrats have been to expand   premium subsidies, strengthen the penalty for not enrolling, and   provide more assistance to insurers that take on a larger number   of sick patients. ’ ’   This would leave a majority of the framework of the law  —     Medicaid expansion, the exchanges, and the statutory aspect  —     while providing tweaks to encourage younger, healthier people to   sign up and balance the market. ’ ”   Politically this may be tough for Republicans since they’ve made   ACA repeal a talking point in elections for the better part of a   decade, but if there were enough   concession it could   placate this worry. ” ’   Essentially, Martha would see few changes in her healthcare. The   exchanges would still be intact and all the provisions protecting   her care would also be in place. There may be some positive   changes, new provisions could bring down various costs, or   another insurer may be available in her area, but not much else. ’ ’  ’ ’   A final, though perhaps least likely option, would be for   Republicans to simply repeal the bill and not worry about   replacement. ’ ’   After running against the bill for so long, the GOP could just   repeal it and label it a disaster, making small changes along the   way but not introducing a   replacement. ’ ’   This seems the least likely of the options, however, since   Republicans have repeatedly said that they want to ensure   continuing coverage and uphold the popular parts of Obamacare.   Also, the political blowback from those losing coverage would be   significant. ’ ’   Martha would likely lose any type of coverage come 2018 and be   back to the   world. She could try to access health   insurance through the individual health insurance market, but   with a preexisting condition there is no guarantee she could get   access to coverage. ’ ’   She could hope that her state implements a   pool, where   higher risk patients can get catastrophic insurance that covers   the   scenarios, but these plans are incredibly   expensive and few people chose to access the pools when they did   exist  . ’ ’   This, in many ways, would be the   scenario for Martha. ’ ’   In terms of direct action, there are few choices for Democrats to   block moves on the law made by Republicans. ’ ’   Obviously, unless there is a change to the rules, Senate   Democrats could filibuster any statutory changes to the ACA.   Outside of that, it appears that they simply have to influence   the Republican agenda. ’ ”   Perhaps most potent for Democrats would be to use Republicans’   repeal against them. Some of the highest rates of utilization for   ACA plans come from heavily Republican areas, and waging a     campaign to get the conservative base to push   back on any changes to the bill, the Democrats may have a way to   get at least some of what they want. ” ’ while vehemently   opposing a repeal of the ACA, would be willing to work with   Republicans to find some way to keep various part of the law in a   replacement bill. ’ ’   ”If it makes sense, I think there’’ll be a lot of Democrats who   would be for it,” Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill told Politico. ’ ’   Whether Democrats go along with a replacement may come down to   the amount of influence they can exert over the law. ’ ”   For now Martha, in our game, is hurtling down the road in her   car. She doesn’t like the increasing costs but wants to keep her   coverage. ” ’   What turns The Road to Trumpcare takes are, for now, unknown, but   more than 20 million real Americans are waiting anxiously to find   out. ’