’  ’ ’   Former ”Apprentice” contestant Summer Zervos announced Tuesday   that she filed a lawsuit against   Donald Trump   claiming he defamed her by insisting her story of being sexually   accosted by him in 2007 was a lie. ’ ’   She added that the lawsuit, filed in New York, would be dropped   immediately and for ”no monetary compensation” if he retracted   his previous statements about her and said that her story ”was   the truth.” ’ ’   Joined by   attorney Gloria Allred at a news   conference, Zervos said she was left with no choice but to file   the suit after two months had passed since she first called on   Trump to retract his statements, which he has not done. ’ ’   ”I wanted to give Mr. Trump the opportunity to retract his false   statements about me and the other women who came forward,” she   said. ’ ’   Zervos said Trump left her with ”no alternative” other than to   file a lawsuit ”in order to vindicate my reputation.” ’ ’’ ’   During the press conference, Allred said Zervos had passed a   polygraph examination regarding her claims. She also said the   lawsuit would be dropped if Trump said Zervos’’ story ”is and was   the truth.” ’ ’   ”No one is above the law, including the   soon to   be president of the United States,” she said. ’ ’ Allred told reporters that   Zervos, a contestant on season five of ”The Apprentice,” met with   Trump in 2007 at the Beverly Hills Hotel to discuss business   after she lost the contest. Instead of job opportunities, Allred   alleged, Trump greeted Zervos with a kiss on the mouth, touched   her breast, and led her into his bedroom. ’ ’   Zervos said Trump treated her like ”an object,” and that after   hearing leaked audio of his boasting of being able to grope and   kiss women regardless of their consent and his  she   felt she had to speak out. She also told reporters that she felt   she had been ”penalized for not sleeping with him” when she was   looking for job opportunities with his company in 2007. ’ ’   ”You do not have the right to treat women as sexual objects just   because you are a star,” Zervos said in October, addressing Trump   directly. ’ ”   Trump released a lengthy statement after Zervos’ October press   conference, categorically denied her accusations. ” ’   ”I vaguely remember Ms. Zervos as one of the many contestants on   ’’The Apprentice’’ over the years,” he said. ”To be clear, I never   met her at a hotel or greeted her inappropriately a decade ago.   That is not who I am as a person, and it is not how I’’ve   conducted my life. In fact, Ms. Zervos continued to contact me   for help, emailing my office on April 14th of this year asking   that I visit her restaurant in California.” ’ ’   Trump continued: ’ ’   He also published a series of tweets discrediting the many women   who came forward to accuse him of similar behavior, calling the   allegations ” to steal the   election” and ” [sic] stories.” ’ ’   Trump also  an account that posted a Daily   Caller story about an  speaking positively of the   Republican presidential nominee. ’ ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. ’