BANGKOK  —   The death on Thursday of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, whose leadership helped bring stability to Thailand over the past seven decades, introduced a new era of uncertainty in a sharply divided nation. He was the only monarch most Thais had ever known, and his death set off widespread grief throughout the country. “His Majesty was a beloved and revered king,” said Prime Minister Prayuth   head of the military junta that seized power in 2014. “He unified the hearts of all Thais. It is the greatest loss and despair in the lives of all Thais nationwide. ” King Bhumibol, 88, who ascended to the throne in 1946 and became the world’s   monarch, helped balance rival political factions, at times giving his blessing to juntas that seized power from democratically elected governments, including the current leadership. His son, Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn, who for years has spent most of his time in Germany and who has a reputation as a   playboy, is expected to take the throne. It was unclear whether he would have the same moral authority to insert himself into the nation’s contentious politics. On Thursday evening, the crown prince unexpectedly said he was not ready to become king and requested more time to grieve the loss of his father, General Prayuth told reporters. The    prince, who has been the royal heir since 1972, wants to wait until an appropriate time to take on the mantle of monarch, the prime minister said. Thailand’s National Assembly, which had been expected to crown a new king, convened in the evening. Members stood in silence for nine minutes  —   the king was the ninth in his dynasty  —   but adjourned abruptly soon afterward without taking further action. Thai news media reported that Col. Sansern Kaewkamnerd, the government’s chief spokesman, asked all TV channels to show only the government channel’s programming during a   mourning period. Throngs of people had gathered at Siriraj Hospital on Thursday afternoon as rumors of the king’s death spread. Many wore pink, the color thought to bolster his health, and knelt on the ground to pray for his recovery. At one point, the crowd chanted, “Long live the king. ” By then, it was too late. President Obama said in a statement that King Bhumibol, who was born in Massachusetts, was a “close friend” of the United States. “His Majesty was a tireless champion of his country’s development and demonstrated unflagging devotion to improving the standard of living of the Thai people,” Mr. Obama said. “With a creative spirit and a drive for innovation, he pioneered new technologies that have rightfully received worldwide acclaim. ” General Prayuth said flags would fly at   for 30 days and asked the public to refrain from holding celebrations during that period. Government officials will be in a state of mourning for one year, he said. “Even though we are in sorrow and tears are in our faces, our beloved Thailand and the monarchy must continue,” the prime minister said during an appearance broadcast on all television channels. “Do not let the death derail his majesty’s determination to see his kingdom prosper, the people live in blessedness and be kind to each other. ” Thitinan Pongsudhirak, a   professor at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok, said King Bhumibol’s accomplishments included helping to develop the nation’s economy and preventing the communist movement from making inroads in Thailand as it swept through neighboring countries. While the last 10 years in Thailand have been volatile, he said, the king’s leadership was especially critical during the height of the Cold War, from the 1950s through the 1970s. “He has left behind a great nation, a grieving and grateful nation,” Professor Thitinan said. “There are detractors and critics who might argue that the monarchy has impeded democratic development over the past decade, but in the broader, overarching perspective, Thailand would not be where it is today without this monarchy and this monarch. ” Thailand has been divided for years between poor farmers mainly in the rural north and more prosperous urban residents centered in Bangkok. At the same time, Muslims have been fighting a   insurgency in the far south for more than a decade, seeking independence from the central government. The military has staged two coups over the past 10 years to oust populist governments that favored the rural poor, first the government led by a billionaire businessman, Thaksin Shinawatra, and later the government of his sister, Yingluck. Part of the rationale for the current government’s remaining in power was to ensure a smooth transition after the expected death of King Bhumibol. The announcement of the king’s passing came about three hours after the official time of death, 3:52 p. m. He died at Siriraj Hospital in Bangkok, where he had been confined for most of the past few years. He had a number of health problems, including kidney failure, and in his final days was on a ventilator. On Wednesday rumors of his death sent the Thai stock market plunging nearly 7 percent before it recovered somewhat later that day to a loss of 2. 5 percent. “Even though the team of doctors tried their best, his illness hasn’t improved and he declined accordingly until 13 Oct. 2016,” the palace said Thursday in its announcement. Although the king’s death had long been anticipated, the reality still came as a shock to many Thais. “I really, really love the king,” said Thanthai Kaenwong, 35, a bartender. “He is the father of all Thais,” he added. “We closed our club today to mourn him. But no one is in the mood, anyway. ” Wimonsiri Kaewsadet, 39, a Bangkok food vendor, grew teary as she spoke of the king. She said her chest felt tight, her face was numb, and she could not eat. She said her sense of loss was even greater than when her own father died. “My heart is broken in pieces,” she said. “No one wished him to go so soon like this. But he was very, very sick. He could not go on. He had endured so much pain. ” She said the king’s absence made her feel uncertain about the country’s future. “It’s the news that no one wants to hear,” she said.