’  ’ ’   Faraday Future, the   startup once hyped as a   ”” was getting a second chance. It had to get this   one right. Early this month, a roster of company executives and   Faraday’’s most visible investor, Chinese billionaire Jia Yueting,   gathered at the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las   Vegas, the annual   for the technology, electronics,   and auto industry’’s buzziest new products, from drones to TVs to     cars.   For Los   Faraday Future, it was a chance to prove to   the world that the company is for real, after its first   appearance at CES in 2016 raised more questions than it answered.   The startup had unveiled a sleek autonomous prototype, but the   vehicle turned out to be an inoperable   race car that   might never be built  —   hardly a challenger to Tesla’’s growing   fleet of electric vehicles that the tech press had been hoping   for.   So in 2017, nearly three years after its founding, and after the   company had poached talent from Silicon Valley and Detroit and   ballooned to 1, 400 employees, Faraday Future needed to show it   could produce a real car. Instead, its second attempt has been   largely deemed a .   The company does have cars that can drive, but it struggled to   prove that on the CES stage. It was, perhaps, a fitting end to a   year of turmoil for Faraday and a moment of glee for its critics,   including recently departed employees. ’ ’   Business Insider interviewed eight people with intimate knowledge   of Faraday Future’’s business to learn about the state of affairs   leading up to the CES presentation. All the executives spoke on   condition of anonymity so that they could speak freely.   They described a business in shambles, with more than a     senior executives departing since last spring  —     including Faraday’’s global CEO, who had left just before CES. The   current and former Faraday insiders also describe millions of   dollars in unpaid bills, and a chaotic corporate structure   between Faraday’’s US and Chinese operations. The most immediate   of Faraday’’s problems is its cash shortage, insiders said. ”If   CES doesn’t bring in fresh investors, it’s over between February   and May,” one source close to the company told Business Insider. ’ ’   The accounts in this story were presented to representatives for   Faraday Future and its Chinese partner LeEco, who described the   accounts as speculation and declined to comment further. ’ ’  ’ ”   Jia Yueting is Faraday Future’s only publicly known investor. ” ’   Sometimes referred to as ”YT,” Jia is CEO of the Chinese   electronics company LeEco, which makes smartphones, TVs, and     headsets. Forbes estimates his wealth at nearly   $4 billion, making him the   person in China last   year.   Through a holding company, many of the businesses have been   publicly listed in China since 2010, . That business has a market value   of about $11 billion. ’ ”   Faraday Future was established in 2014 by two people: Jia and   Faraday’s current senior vice president of research, development,   and engineering, Nick Sampson. Sampson managed an engineering   team at Tesla before moving to Faraday Future. ” ’   But since Faraday officially debuted at the 2016 Consumer   Electronics Show, it was unclear who was running the company.   Faraday did not publicly name a CEO or reveal who its other   investors were, aside from Jia. Even now,  lists   several senior executives but no CEO. ’ ’   Several of Business Insider’’s sources who have direct knowledge   of the company’’s leadership structure said there have been at   least two ”CEOs of record,” people who had the ability to sign   financial documents for the company. The first was  an executive from a LeEco subsidiary who held the role   until October 2015. ’ ’   The second CEO of record was David Wisnieski, who was officially   Faraday Future’’s director of finance.  from the state of Nevada list   Wisnieski as president, secretary, treasurer, and director of   ”Faraday & Future Inc. ,” the company’’s legal name. He left in   July 2016, and a new officers’’ list isn’’t due to Nevada until   March. ’ ’  ’ ”   Notably, Chaoying, the first CEO of record, resurfaced on new   Faraday documents last month. She signed a   agreement on   behalf of Faraday Future in Nevada. She is listed on the document   as president of the limited liability company  called Robin Prop Holdco   LLC. The document details a December payment of $510, 000 to   Faraday Future from the city of North Las Vegas for 17 acres of   land at the site of Faraday’s future assembly plant. ” ’   Three people close to Faraday said that a third person, named   Ding Lei, who was officially a cofounder at LeEco, was acting as   Faraday’’s ”global CEO” until late 2016 when he suddenly left the   company. ’ ’   ”He was unable to contain YT,” one source said about Ding Lei’’s   working relationship with Jia. ’ ”   The Verge,  in late December,   reported that he remains employed by Jia’s LeEco’s own car   project called LeSEE, citing a spokeswoman for the Chinese   company. One person told Business Insider said this means he   remains involved with Faraday’s China division, which this person   described as essentially an extension of LeSEE. ” ’   The people say that it is Jia who is now acting as Faraday’’s   unofficial CEO, directing its teams and making decisions for the   company. ”This isn’’t a strategic partnership  —   it’’s a   subsidiary,” said one of the people. ’ ’  ’ ”   That status, as a   subsidiary of LeEco rather than an   independently run business, is where many of Faraday’s troubles   start, the people say. They describe arrangements that seem   geared toward advancing the development of a car at LeEco rather   than producing one for Faraday, and decisions made to please   Jia’s ambitions rather than to reflect the reality of Faraday’s   means. ” ’   ”The US management team really had no say and had to do what   [Jia] wanted because he was paying for everything,” a source who   worked in design for the company said. ’ ”   The clash of cultures between Faraday in the US and LeEco in   China started early,  reported last year, explaining that the Chinese   managers’ proposal to name the company Fara Faro was met with   ridicule by the Americans, who eventually picked the name Faraday   Future. And the insiders who spoke with Business Insider say   Faraday Future is often visited by groups of LeEco employees from   China who frequently travel to Faraday’s Los     headquarters. ” ’   ”There were times that the Beijing team would come out and learn   what we were doing but were working on their own designs and then   they would go back,” one source said. ’ ’  ’ ”   That push to fulfill all Jia’s wishes goes back to early plans   for a $1 billion factory, in a vast expanse of dusty desert land   10 miles north of the Vegas Strip. The startup’s proposed     factory would be the home of its US vehicle production,   and about 4, 500 people, many of whom are locals, would be hired   to work there. The plans were celebrated by state officials,   including Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval in April 2016. ” ”   Business Insider  where wine and hors d’oeuvre were served in   an   tent next to a vast, dusty vacant lot. ” ’   ”Welcome home, Faraday. Welcome home,” Gov. Sandoval declared as   he took the stage. ’ ’  ’ ’   Jia was shown several options for the North Las Vegas plant   because company finances seemed to be tightening, the two people   with knowledge of the decision said. Some of those proposals were   more   than others. Jia pushed for the big one. ’ ’   One source with knowledge of the factory plans said work at the   site ”stopped almost as soon as it started.” ’ ’   Faraday and its contractor, AECOM, said the work stoppage was   only a hiccup and the project would resume in 2017. At a December   2016 media tour inside Faraday Future’’s headquarters, Faraday   showed a flashy video simulation of the machinery its future   factory would have. When pressed on the timeline for the factory,   Dag Reckhorn, the company’’s vice president of manufacturing,   initially implied it has, before clarifying that grading at the   site was complete and a video of the   dirt lot was   ”basically last week, those were the last finishing touches.”   When asked when the building would be completed, Reckhorn said,   ”We will reveal that early next year [2017].” ’ ”   Business Insider’s sources said Faraday Future has already   purchased some of the equipment for the factory and is exploring   financing options to get the project going again. But if the   money is not there, Faraday may be forced to build a       plant instead. ” ’  ’ ”   Unpaid bills are piling up. Money owed to suppliers alone adds up   to about $300 million,   sources told Business   Insider. As BuzzFeed News’ Priya Anand  in December, at least two companies have sued   Faraday over unpaid bills, although one of those cases has   already been dismissed. ” ’   Jia, according to the sources, pushed teams to keep spending   money at 100% but leaves them in the dark about sources of funds. ’ ’   ”There was no visibility about when the money would arrive  —   we   were told to continue making commitments to suppliers,” a source   at the company said, adding that Faraday got about 10% of the   money it needed each month, ”only $10 to $15 million.” ’ ’  ’ ’   According to another   source, Faraday was seeking   help from Chinese investors who were due to visit the company   after its CES presentation earlier this month. On multiple   occasions over the past year, Faraday’’s US spokespeople have told   Business Insider that the startup employs a ”diverse funding   strategy,” but the company had repeatedly declined to specify   who, besides Jia, has invested in the company. ’ ’   The sources Business Insider spoke with did say that Faraday   raised a $1 billion convertible bond in China last year, but that   the company is still working on getting the funds across the   border. The Chinese government, worried about the record outflow   of yuan from the country, has  of funds by   both companies and individuals, and Business Insider’’s sources   say Faraday’’s top executives were wary of increased scrutiny from   the Chinese government if it sought approval to convert that   money from yuan to US dollars. Jia admitted in November that he   had gotten in over his head with all the projects, writing a   letter to employees apologizing for moving ”blindly” ahead,   Bloomberg News . ”Our cash demand ballooned. We got overextended in   our global strategy. At the same time, our capital and resources   were in fact limited,” Jia’’s letter read. In a deal announced   last week, LeEco said it would raise about $2 billion by selling   a stake to a Chinese   developer called Sunac China   Holdings. The stake sale means LeEco’’s own cash crunch is almost   over, but it won’’t help the   business, : ’ ’  ’ ’   Faraday Future lost numerous employees and executives in the   waning months of 2016, including chief brand strategist Marco   Mattiacci, who arrived just months before, . ’ ’   Also gone: ’ ”   This is not an exhaustive list. Notably, during the December   press event at the company’s headquarters, Faraday   representatives boasted of a total workforce of about 1, 400   people, 1, 000 of whom are based in the US. A person close to the   company told Business Insider the company cannot feasibly support   its current staffing levels and would need to cut that number   nearly in half. ” ’  ’ ”   The company’s 2017 showing at CES fared only slightly better than   its disastrous debut a year earlier, even though this time   Faraday had several working prototypes to show off. ” ”   Faraday’s FF91 vehicle failed when Jia pushed a button that was   supposed to make the car park itself. After several uncomfortable   minutes of silence and   between Jia and Nick Sampson,   the stage lights dimmed and the car was moved a few feet across   the stage. ” ”   The full   video that included the embarrassing flub   was removed from Faraday Future’s YouTube channel and replaced   with an identical video that ends seconds before the failure is   shown. The original video is still live on the site, . The   malfunction begins around the 1:12:30 mark. ” ”   Faraday needed this year’s presentation to turn heads, so the   event,   via YouTube, featured several   cars    —   including a Ferrari 488 GTB, a Bentley Bentayga, a Tesla Model   X, and a Model S accelerating quickly off the stage. ” ”   What the livestream audience did not see was a   look at   the Faraday Future car’s interior, where the many       technologies would be displayed. It wasn’t   shown because it wasn’t ready. ” ”   The examples Business Insider viewed in person at Faraday’s   headquarters had only hard plastic moldings of a simulated   interior. Faraday had one real, working seat to demonstrate to a   group of about 25 journalists. ” ’   Faraday told journalists at the time that it would not show the   interior at CES. As with several other major details about the   car  —   including the price  —   a reveal would come later, the   company promised. ’ ’   ”All that stuff at CES was just a bunch of   ” one highly   placed Faraday Future source told Business Insider in an   interview. Another said the FF91 shown at CES ”isn’’t even close   to being complete,” despite the company’’s claims that it would go   into production in 2018. ’ ’   For Faraday Future, the biggest unknowns come back to the money.   If the company can successfully pull money out of China, the   company could survive. ’ ’   A Faraday factory could eventually be built, Faraday could   produce more than just a few of its electric vehicles, and,   despite a rumored sticker price of at least $180, 000 for the   FF91, perhaps a few people might even buy one. ’ ’   The company announced that it received more than 64, 000   reservations for the car shortly after CES, but people were   allowed to put their names down with or without a $5, 000 deposit.   Sources close to the company told Business Insider 60 people   actually submitted a paid reservation. ’