’ History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were ”resolved” when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a    site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of   data to save for future generations. ’ ’ The main site for Archive Team is at  and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. ’ ’ This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive,   datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the  providing a path back to lost websites and work.  ’ ’ Our collection has grown to the point of having   for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. ’ ’ The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.  ’ ’ ’ ’ To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. ’ ’ There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at . ’ ” ArchiveBot’s source code can be found at . ’t” ’’ ’Amazon has filed a new patent designed to help autonomous vehicles identify the driving lanes   for their individual needs.’ ’The  approved on Tuesday, shows a ”roadway management system” that is capable of telling   cars which lanes to use on the roadway, based on things like the speed and destination of the vehicle, or time of the day and traffic flow.’ ’It also notes that the new system could help   cars spot reversible lanes, which let cars travel in either direction depending on the displayed overhead signal.’ ’”The roadway management system can determine the direction of travel for lanes in a roadway and direct autonomous automobiles to enter the roadway in a particular lane,” the filing says. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’