’  ’ ” Steven Mnuchin,   Donald Trump’s nominee for   Secretary Treasury, will face a confirmation hearing in front of   the Senate Finance Committee on Thursday, January 19. Ahead of   that hearing, Jim Greco, the CEO and a cofounder of US   treasury trading platform  has written an   open letter to Mnuchin.  ” ’   Dear Mr. Mnuchin: ’ ’   I would like to congratulate you on your nomination as the next   Secretary of the Treasury. Your experience running FICC and as   CIO of Goldman Sachs put you in a unique position to grasp the   complexity of the challenges facing the Treasury Department and   the market and technological forces that are driving them.   Following your nomination, you indicated an openness to extending   the duration of the federal debt by issuing bonds beyond 30 years   of maturity, a new solution to a long standing and complex   problem. Your experience and your openness to new ideas will both   be extremely useful as you address one of the most pressing   challenges: reform of Treasury market structure. ’ ’   You arrive at Treasury at a very unique time for the Government   debt market. The unwind of quantitative easing and the fiscal   plans of the incoming administration require a strong and stable   secondary market for government securities. Over the past few   years however, the market structure has been anything but stable.   On the surface, the Treasury market is the largest and most   liquid fixed income market in the world.  However, beneath   the surface regulation and technological change have profoundly   recast the market in recent years.   the Volcker Rule,   Basel III, and MiFID II have successfully   and     the banking system, but have resulted in raising the   cost of risk capital and thus reduced the amount banks devote to   market making. As bank participation has declined, proprietary   trading firms have leveraged technology to become the dominant   liquidity providers in the   market, similar to the   evolution of the equities market 15 years ago. The customer   facing part of the bond market has remained separate from the     market and continues to function largely as it did   when you were a trainee at Salomon Brothers in the 1980s. ’ ’  ’ ’   The challenges of this new market structure were made apparent on   October 15, 2014 when the yield on the ten year note rose and   fell 37 basis points  for no apparent reason whatsoever. The “flash   crash” undermined the confidence of market participants and   challenged the official sector’s assumptions about the resilience   of the market. If this kind of market shock was possible during   the calm period of Fall 2014, imagine what might be possible   during the unwind of QE or during a major fiscal expansion. After   the crash, regulators collaborated on an investigation into its   causes and solicited feedback from market participants who   largely shared the concerns of the official sector about the   evolution of the market structure. Subsequently, regulators began   by focusing on three areas where the market needs official sector   involvement: market data, market practice standards, and central   clearing.  ’ ’   The scarcity of market data was the primary impediment to the   investigation of the flash crash. Regulators have moved swiftly   to correct this by requiring trade reporting to the official   sector using the TRACE system used in the corporate bond market.   This is a good start, but we would encourage you to go further.   Market participants cannot make informed decisions about their   execution quality if they cannot access the data they need to   measure it. Commissioner Piwowar’s paper on TRACE has shown the   great public benefits such information canprovide, including   deeper liquidity and a substantial reduction in transaction   costs. Market data should be made available to the public in a   timely fashion as it is in all other fixed income markets   today.  ’ ’   The Treasury market has historically been exempt from many FINRA   rules. The SEC is working with FINRA to determine whether those   exemptions have outlived their usefulness. We hope you will carry   on this work.  The US Treasury market is, by far, the most   lightly regulated market in the US. Historically, the   sophistication of the participants and the preponderance of   dealers justified this. Today, while investors remain   sophisticated from a financial perspective, their capacity to   adapt to technological change varies widely. The role of the   dealers has also been diminished, and the ways in which customers   source liquidity are rapidly changing. Market forces can solve   most of these problems but uniform, enforceable market practice   standards woul channel those forces more efficiently. ’ ’  ’ ’   With respect to central clearing, there is a strong preference   for it from most market participants, but there is little   agreement as to how to bring it about. This is an issue of   particular concern to Direct Match as a   withdrawal of   a   clearing relationship caused a   experience   of the firm. The absence of central clearing in the Treasury   market serves as a moat between the end investors and the   majority of liquidity providers, and hamstrings the efforts of   innovators to solve market structure problems. The Treasury   Department should work together with market participants and   encourage them to work out a solution that balances the need for   certainty with the economics of all participants.  ’ ’   In closing, I hope that once you take office that you will make   the continuance of Treasury market structure reform one of your   top priorities. The departures of Mary Jo White from the SEC and   Antonio Weiss from the Treasury leave much unfinished work. The   fiscal plans of the Trump Administration and the end of   extraordinary monetary policy during your tenure will present   great challenges to the Treasury market on top of the existing   structural issues. The more robust the secondary market for   Treasuries, the easier it will be to navigate the challenges that   lie ahead. These issues are not partisan. Capital constraints and   electronic trading will proceed regardless of the party in power   and its regulatory philosophy. Direct Match is hard at work on   these problems, delivering a   solution that will   welcome all participants to a single venue. Direct Match would   like to welcome you back to the fixed income world, and we hope   that you share our concerns for the market structure for US   Treasury securities. We and other Treasury market participants   look forward to working with you to improve it.  ’ ’   Sincerely, ’ ’   Jim Greco ’