’  ’ ’   Flying American Airlines just got a bit more affordable. ’ ”   On Wednesday, the world’s largest airline released details of its   upcoming     fare class. ” ’   ”American Airlines now has something to offer every customer,   from those who want simple,   travel to those who want an     experience via first class,” American Airlines   President Robert Isom said in a statement. ’ ’   According to Isom, the new fare class is designed to put American   in a better position to compete against the increasing presence   of    carriers. ’ ”   Unfortunately, buying the cheapest ticket also means you’ll have   to do without many of the amenities that have traditionally been   considered obligatory in modern air travel. ” ’   At the top of that list is   luggage.     passengers are allowed to bring a personal item on board as long   as it fits underneath the seat. However, any luggage that   requires overhead bin space has been banned. ’ ”   It’s a policy that echoes  which was   announced in November. ” ’  ’ ’   Both airlines recommend   passengers check their bags   at the counter when they arrive at the airport. ’ ’   According to an American Airlines spokesperson,     passengers with luggage will be forced to   their bags   and pay an additional handling fee. Thus, instead of paying $25   for the first bag at the   counter, basic economy   passengers will need to fork over at least $50 to     their bags (a   charge plus a $25   fee). ’ ’   United will also charge a   fee plus $25 for handling,   an airline spokesperson confirmed to Business Insider. ’ ’   To avoid confusion, United will allow only passengers who qualify   for free   bags or have paid to check baggage to check in   online. ’ ”   Flight attendants will not be tasked with policing the use of   overhead bins on board the aircraft, United Airlines President   Scott Kirby said during the company’s latest earnings call. An   American Airlines spokesperson said the same. ” ’  ’ ’   Instead, gate agents and terminal staff members will manage the     baggage policy. ’ ”   In addition to having bag restrictions,   passengers   won’t get seat assignments until   and will be the last   allowed to board. ” ”   American will begin offering   fares on February 10,   while United’s basic economy will begin in the second quarter. ” ’  ’ ”   Delta Air Lines’  is already up and running. It   allows passengers to bring along   bags, but its   restrictions in terms of seat assignments and the boarding   procedure are similar to American’s and United’s. ” ’   American, Delta, and United all make it clear that passengers can   still purchase   tickets should they find the     restrictions a bit much. ’