’  ’ ’   The European Union and the NATO alliance have been pillars in the   Western liberal world order since World War II  —   and US     Donald Trump seems indifferent about their   survival. ’ ’   Trump  by repeating his assertions that NATO is ”obsolete”   and remarking that the EU’’s future didn’’t matter much to the US.   His comments  and outgoing Vice   President Joe Biden  during the World Economic   Forum in Davos, Switzerland, this week. ’ ’   ”Defending the liberal international order requires that we   resist the forces of European disintegration and maintain our   longstanding insistence on a Europe whole, free, and at peace,”   Biden said. ”The EU has been an indispensable partner of the   United States.” ’ ’   Stewart Patrick, a senior fellow in global governance at the   Council on Foreign Relations, warned that the US could see ”a   revolutionary break in more than 70 years of American foreign   policy” if these institutions were to crumble. ’ ’   ”[It] would signal the rapid erosion of the Western liberal order   that has been nurtured and defended by the US since the second   World War,” Patrick told Business Insider. ”I find the comments   extremely concerning.” ’ ’   Still, Judy Dempsey, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Europe think   tank, said NATO and the EU are not doing to disappear anytime   soon. ’ ’   ”The idea that NATO is about to collapse and disappear, it’’s   simply not in the cards,” Dempsey told Business Insider. ’ ’   And the EU ”is an immensely complex construction and Trump has no   idea how it functions,” she said. ’ ’   But both institutions are more fragile than they were even a year   ago. ’ ’  ’ ’   The most recent shock to the EU came in June when Britain voted   to leave the bloc. After the shocking ”Brexit” vote, geopolitical   experts began speculating about . ’ ’   In October, global intelligence firm Stratfor  facing Europeans as populist and nationalist   movements gain momentum across the continent. ’ ’   ”To knit themselves even closer together, EU states would have to   compromise on issues that are too important to budge on,” a note   from the firm read. ”The alternative option  —   reversing European   integration  —   is gaining ground, but it comes with the very real   possibility of leading to the bloc’’s complete dismantling.” ’ ’   Patrick said that for a US president to be ”encouraging and   welcoming the notion that the EU would continue to dissolve” is   ”shocking.” ’ ’   ”The EU and European countries have provided the oxygen with   which the rest of international life can go on,” he said.” ’ ’  ’ ”   NATO is also under stress. Trump doesn’t seem to have a high   opinion of the alliance, and Russian President Vladimir Putin has   been actively seeking to weaken it. ” ’   ”To have the   call into question the enduring   commitment to NATO is disturbing,” Patrick said. ’ ”   One of Trump’s main complaints about the alliance is that member   countries rely too much on the US and don’t contribute enough to   their own defense. He has  that NATO doesn’t focus enough on counterterrorism. ” ’   Germany’’s foreign minister   Steinmeier  that Trump’’s comments led to ”astonishment and   agitation” within NATO. ’ ’   Patrick said Trump has challenged ”the notion of a     international system” and created uncertainty about ”whether the   US is willing to champion this world order.” ’ ’   Nevertheless, Trump does have some support from within NATO. ’ ’   A top NATO general  that some aspects of the alliance are indeed   obsolete. ’ ’   ”When I look at the threats we are facing now, we see that we may   have focused too much, until the Ukraine crisis, we may have   focused too much on expeditionary operations, especially in   Afghanistan, and doing that, NATO has a bit failed to look at the   change in the strategic background,” said French air force Gen.   Denis Mercier, the senior NATO commander based in the United   States. ’ ’   ”We have some structures that are obsolete.” ’ ”   Complaints of obsolescence and an   on the US in   NATO aren’t unique to Trump. ” ’   ”Donald Trump is not the first person to suggest that NATO   allies are not pulling their weight or that NATO has to have a   new rationale in the   War world,” Patrick said. ’ ’   But keeping NATO intact is in the interest of the US, he argued. ’ ’   ”There are ongoing debates about the degree to which other   countries are free riding on US contributions,” Patrick said.   ”But the previous presidents and foreign policy experts   …     have   invested in NATO and also in support of the EU because they see   this as a case of enlightened   that the community   of market democracies believe in certain things and believe in a   certain type of order and that cementing that relationship was   important.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Dempsey, the Carnegie fellow, agreed that the ”America first”   isolationism that Trump has trumpeted isn’’t likely to benefit   American security interests. ’ ’   ”[Trump] needs allies in southeast Asia, he needs allies in   Europe,” she said. ”Security is no longer the luxury of just one   state anymore because of cyber security, hybrid war, you name   it.” ’ ’   It’’s unclear what exactly Trump intends to do about NATO once he   takes office. Despite calling the alliance ”obsolete,” he has    it is ”very important to him.” ’ ’   Patrick said he hopes Trump’’s advisers encourage him to ”offer   more temperate remarks.” ’ ’   ”The more that the   actually offers words of   reassurance the better because by making very   and   intemperate remarks, he risks unleashing dynamics of which he’’s   not entirely in control,” Patrick said. ’ ”   In any case, Trump’s unpredictability was a hallmark of his   run for president. ” ’   ”It’’s as if sometimes you think that the incoming administration   is turning its back on the liberal order created after 1945,”   Dempsey said. ”Trump is a new era, there’s no doubt about that.” ’