’  ’ ’   The Mexican government said on Thursday evening that it had   extradited Sinaloa cartel kingpin Joaquín ”El Chapo” Guzmán, long   considered one of the  in Mexico and in   the world. ’ ”   Earlier on Thursday, the Mexican Supreme Court  appeals filed by Guzmán’s lawyers   in an attempt to halt the extradition. ” ’   ”The judges decided not to hear the (appeal for) protection” from   extradition, a source in the court . ’ ’   That source said the court had  the appeals to a different   ”collegiate” panel of judges for a ruling, and one of Guzmán’’s   lawyers said that the kingpin’’s legal team would look at the   court’’s decision and decide whether to appeal to a regional     court. ’ ’   However, in  released hours after that   decision was announced, the Mexican government said Guzmán had   been turned over to the US. ’ ’   ”The government of the republic today delivered Mr. Guzmán to the   authorities of the United States of America,” the Mexican foreign   ministry said in its . ’ ’   ”Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman Loera, known by various aliases   including ’’El Chapo,’’ has been extradited and is en route to the   United States to face criminal charges in connection with his   leadership of the Mexican organized crime syndicate known as the   ’’Sinaloa Cartel,’’” the US Justice Department said in a  issued on Thursday evening. ’ ’  ’ ’   After a July 2015 jailbreak, Guzmán was recaptured not far from   his birthplace . He was at   first rejailed in the prison from which he escaped, but in early   May 2016  to a prison outside Ciudad   Juarez in northern Mexico. ’ ”   Security around the prison, Cefereso No. 9, was heightened   upon Guzmán’s arrival, with  and guards in and around   the prison. Many viewed the transfer as a prelude to extradition. ” ’       ’ ’  ’ ’   The Mexican government has received several extradition requests   for Guzmán from several US District Courts. ’ ’   In May 2016, the administration of Mexican President Enrique Peña   Nieto  from the Southern   District of California and the Western District of Texas, to try   Guzmán on charges including homicide, money laundering, and   criminal association. ’ ”   Guzmán’s lawyers have  to thwart   the extradition, citing purported violations of the   kingpin’s rights as reasons to quash the transfer. ” ”   While it has not yet been confirmed where Guzmán will face trial   in the US  —   should his case  beforehand  —   the kingpin is reportedly headed to   New York City. According to AFP’s Laurent Thomet, the kingpin is   slated to  ET. ” ”   The Eastern District of New York, based in Brooklyn, is one of   the  with indictments   pending against the Sinaloa cartel chief. The Eastern District’s   indictment  with overseeing a trafficking   cartel and accuses him and other Sinaloa cartel leaders of hiring   hit men who conspired to committ murder, torture, and kidnapping. ” ’   Guzmán is headed to New York because the city’’s federal courts   have ”a history of trying very complex conspiracy cases,” Mike   Vigil, a former chief of international operations for the US Drug   Enforcement Administration, told Business Insider on Thursday   evening. ’ ’  ’ ’   New York’’s  was an important selling point, as ”they want to make   sure Guzmán gets convicted, because it would be very embarrassing   for the United States to solicit his extradition and not get a   conviction,” said Vigil, . ’ ’   The US attorney in Miami, another District Court with an   indictment against Guzmán,  as a   special counsel in  . There is also a possibility the   indictments issued by the courts in Texas and California will be   consolidated with the New York case, Vigil said. ’ ”   Guzmán’s extradition appears to have been deliberately   timed. ” ’  ’ ’   Coming just hours before US   Donald Trump takes   office, the Mexican government sent the kingpin north ”because   they want to make sure President Obama gets credit for the   extradition,” Vigil told Business Insider, citing conversations   he had with Mexican officials. ’ ’   Trump, who dedicated much of his campaign to denouncing    is not held in   high regard among Mexican policymakers, Vigil said. ”They didn’’t   want Trump to get credit.” ’ ”   In the months prior to Guzmán’s extradition, other observers   suggested the Peña Nieto administration may tried to    with the incoming Trump administration. ” ”   Whatever the motivation, the extradition comes just days before   Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo and Foreign Minister   Luis Videgaray  to meet with Trump’s   chief of staff, Reince Priebus and other adivsers, including   Jared Kushner and National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. ” ’   Videgaray, recently appointed to the foreign ministry after   stepping down from the finance ministry in September, has ties to   Kushner and is  for the Peña Nieto administration. ’ ”   While the news of Guzmán’s extradition came as a surprise, it’s   likely US and Mexican authorities have been coordinating on the   transfer, especially if it was meant to happen just before the   end of Obama’s term. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   His transfer to the US is a ”great moral victory,” Vigil told   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”His extradition to the United States will remove him from his   criminal infrastructure, but it’’s not going to have any impact on   drug trafficking, because the Sinaloa cartel”  —   still one of the   most powerful cartels in Mexico and in the world  —   ”will continue   to function,” Vigil said, citing the cartel’’s resilient   leadership structure. ’ ’   ”They have a very strong bench.” ’