’  ’ ’     Donald Trump is stepping into office on Friday. ’ ’   And some analysts argue that his ”America first” foreign policy   agenda could mark a break in the global order, given that it   rejects the  centered on   international alliances and   institutions. ’ ’   ”I believe that the Pax Americana, as of tomorrow, is over,” Ian   Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group, said  on Thursday at the   World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. ’ ’   ”I think that we can actually close the book on that chapter and   that we enter into a new world order,” he said. ’ ’   Bremmer and his firm recently articulated a similar idea in their   . They wrote that Trump’’s ”America   first” philosophy sees multilateral institutions and   international affairs as transactional  —   that is, rather than   aiming for   global order and common values, Trump   believes the US should act on   national interests and be   more flexible in dealing with rapid shifts on the global stage. ’ ’   ”With it ends a   geopolitical era of Pax Americana, one in   which globalization and Americanization were tightly linked and   American hegemony in security, trade, and promotion of values   provided guardrails for the global economy,” the firm wrote of   the ”America first” philosophy in its report. ’ ’   Notably, Chinese President Xi Jinping  on Tuesday in Davos defending economic   globalization, which Bremmer cited as an example of globalization   continuing while Americanization is not. ’ ’   Davos attendees ”know that Trump represents a level of   significant uncertainty in the global order,” he said. ”And they   also know the Chinese government coming here and saying, ’’We’’re   leading the charge on globalization,’’ and quoting from Charles   Dickens and things like that  —   well, China is not a democracy.   Not going to become one. China’’s not a   economy. And   while it is becoming more   over time, it’’s still   fundamentally state capitalist. ’ ’   ”So the idea that your new globalization overlords are a country   that does not have rule of law or an independent judiciary  —   in   fact, a country that many of you do not feel particularly welcome   investing in, even though you’’re making some money  —   they don’’t   know how to deal with that, that uncertainty as globalization   continues but Americanization is clearly over.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Another example of Trump’s shift in foreign policy views that   Bremmer singled out was the  ’s recent comments in   an interview with  on German Chancellor Angela   Merkel and Russian President Vladimir Putin. ” ’   ”Well, I start off trusting both, but let’’s see how long that   lasts. It may not last at all,” Trump said. ’ ’   Bremmer said: ”The   relationship right now . .. when   Trump comes out and says that his relationship with Putin and   Merkel are basically the same, that’’s literally an astounding   thing for a postwar American president to say. And if you’’re   Merkel, the most important leader in Europe, you have to react   strongly to that. ’ ’   ”I think there’’s an open question right now as to the state of   and maybe the existence of the   alliance. And that is   not appreciated by the people that are here.” ’