’  ’ ’   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer delivered a fiery speech   during the inauguration on Friday that appeared to take shots,   however indirectly, at Donald Trump. ’ ’   With Trump sitting several feet away just minutes before he was   sworn in as president, the Democratic senator said Americans   ”live in challenging and tumultuous times,” citing ”a fractured   media, a politics frequently consumed by rancor.” ’ ’   The minority leader proceeded to highlight many of the minority   communities that Trump disparaged at times during the 2016   presidential campaign. Schumer particularly highlighted   immigrants  —   whom Trump occasionally dubbed ”rapists”  —   and   . ’ ’   ”We face threats foreign and domestic,” Schumer said. ”In such   times, faith in our government, our institutions, and even our   country can erode. Despite these challenges, I stand here today   confident in this great country for one reason: you, the American   people.” ’ ’   He added: ”Whatever our race, religion, sexual orientation,   gender identity. Whether we are immigrant or  . Whether   we live with disabilities or do not. In wealth or in poverty, we   are all exceptional in our commonly held, yet fierce devotion to   our country.” ’ ’   Schumer celebrated the transition but emphasized equal   protections for Americans. ’ ’   ”Today we celebrate one of democracy’’s core attributes: the   peaceful transfer of power. And every day we stand up for core   democratic principles enshrined in the Constitution. The rule of   law, equal protection for all under law, the freedom of speech,   press, religion. The things that make America, America.” ’ ’   Some observers interpreted the speech as a subtle dig at Trump: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tChuck Schumer now gives the ceremonial subtweet. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tSen. Chuck Schumer delivering the    rebuttal’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tIt shouldn’t be a subtweet for Schumer to be like “disabled people are people,” but we are inaugurating Donald Trump. ’t’t’ ”   Schumer’s speech wasn’t particularly well received by the crowd.   Many  as the minority leader warned of the challenges of a   divided nation. ” ”   Some of Trump’s biggest boosters complained about the speech   online. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWho invited Chuck Schumer to waffle on about social justice nonsense?  ’