’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s top officials stood defiant for a   second day in the face of withering media criticism over dubious   White House claims about the size of Trump’s inauguration. ” ”   During a visit to CIA headquarters in Virginia on Saturday, Trump   asserted that there were over a million people at   Friday’s inauguration, though independent    put the crowd at closer to 250, 000 attendees. ” ”   There are no official government estimates of the crowd size, but   photographic evidence comparing Trump’s inauguration to past   inaugurations and  suggested that the number was far   lower than the White House claimed. ” ’   But Trump officials refused to admit Trump made factual   inaccuracies or exaggerations, instead taking aim at the media. ’ ’   During a brief appearance Saturday evening, White House press   secretary Sean Spicer criticized some media   outlets’’ coverage of the inauguration, asserting that   Friday’’s crowd was the ”largest audience to ever witness an   inauguration.” ’ ”   Top officials also took to the Sunday political talk shows to   combat criticism of Trump’s press conference, instead blasting   the entire media over an inaccurate Friday report from Time’s   Zeke Miller that the bust of Martin Luther King Jr. was removed   from the White House. Miller corrected his story within minutes,   apologizing to Spicer, who accepted his apology on Twitter. ” ’   Chief of staff Reince Priebus  Fox News anchor Chris Wallace’’s question about   whether the battle over crowd size would ”benefit the American   people.” ’ ’   ”It really isn’’t about crowd size. What it’’s about is   honesty in the media,” Priebus said. ’ ’   He continued: ”The media from day one has been talking about   delegitimizing the election. Talking about the Russians, talking   about everything you can imagine except the fact that we need to   move this country forward. ’ ’   Appearing on ”Meet The Press,” Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway    questions about Trump’’s misstatement by   lashing out at Miller, as well as host Chuck Todd for   characterizing Spicer’’s statements as falsehoods. ’ ’   ”If we’’re going to keep referring to our press secretary in those   types of terms I think that we’’re going to have to rethink our   relationship here. I want to have a great open relationship with   our press. But look what happened the day before talking about   falsehoods,” Conway said, referring to Miller. ’ ’   At times, both Priebus and Conway blamed the media for covering   the story at all.  ’ ’   Speaking with CBS’’ John Dickerson on ”Face The Nation,” Conway   said it was ”disappointing to get into this argument about crowd   control,” while on Fox News, Priebus falsely claimed that   media outlets did not cover the substance of Trump’’s remarks at   the CIA. ’ ”   For their part, the journalists appeared frustrated by   the Trump team’s obfuscation and denial. ” ’   Wallace dubbed the conversation over crowd size ”ridiculous,”   but continued to insist that having seen the crowds from the   National Mall, they were far smaller than the president and   Priebus claimed. ’ ’   ”I was there, I was there on the mall,” Wallace said, adding   moments later. ”I’’m telling you, there were huge, empty areas   there.” ’ ’   Todd was even more blunt,  ’ ’   After Conway repeatedly refused to concede that the inauguration   crowd size was smaller than the administration claimed, Todd   admonished the adviser for characterizing the falsehoods as   ”alternative facts.” ’ ’   ”I’’m sitting here trying to answer basic questions and you’’re   trying to attack me with some weird Twitter feed you guys are   obsessed with,” Todd said. ’ ”   Other media figures also expressed alarm at the White   House’s claims.  ” ”   Spicer’s briefing was harshly criticized by some past White House   press secretaries from former presidents George W. Bush and   Barack Obama’s administrations. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWrong. The President I worked for never told me to lie. Ever. And I doubt Pres. Bush ever told  to lie. Today was not normal.  ’ ” ’t’t’t( ) Yesterday’s presser leaves me uncomfortable and concerned. The press is right 2b upset. ’t’t” ’     ’