’ History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were ”resolved” when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a    site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of   data to save for future generations. ’ ’ The main site for Archive Team is at  and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. ’ ’ This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive,   datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the  providing a path back to lost websites and work.  ’ ’ Our collection has grown to the point of having   for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. ’ ’ The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.  ’ ’ ’ ’ To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. ’ ’ There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at . ’ ” ArchiveBot’s source code can be found at . ’t” ’Sure, we all know that an Ivy League education, a stint at a   firm, and stellar sales skills can help us get ahead. But i’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’ suggests ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Using data from a national survey of 6, 600 children born in 2001, University of California at Los Angeles professor Neal Halfon and his colleagues .’ ’”Parents who saw college in their child’’s future seemed to manage their child toward that goal irrespective of their income and other assets,” .’ ’The finding came out in standardized tests: 57% of the kids who did the worst were expected to attend college by their parents, while 96% of the kids who did the best were expected to go to college.’ ’That parents should keep their expectations high falls in line with another psych finding  —    which states ”that what one person expects of another can come to serve as a   prophecy”  —   as well as  was most important for a child’’s success.’ ’ ’ ’A  finds that men experience a ”marriage premium”: Their salaries generally go up when they get hitched. Women, on the other hand, tend to see their salaries go down when they tie the knot.’ ’Specifically, married men between 28 and 30 years old earn about $15, 900 more per year in individual income compared to their single counterparts, while married men between 44 and 46 years old make $18, 800 more.’ ’And although these findings were not statistically significant, married women between 28 and 30 years old earn $1, 349 less per year in individual income than their single counterparts, while married women between 44 and 46 years old earn $1, 465 less.’ ’Many studies look at what’’s variously called the ”  effect,” ”month of birth bias,” or ”  effect. ”’ ”The basic principle is that kids born right before an annual cutoff date for starting school or sports are at a disadvantage because they’re essentially a full year younger than other members of the group. That can make a big difference in some children’s physical, emotional, and intellectual maturity. On the other hand, just missing the date tends to mean you’ll be more developed than your peers.” ’Malcolm Gladwell popularized this idea in the book ”,” which explored how more professional hockey players from Canada were born in January, February, and March than any other months. The reason? Canada’’s cutoff date for hockey programs is Jan. 1.’ ”Similar research has shown that the number of CEOs with June and July birthdays is . That’s because kids born in June and July are usually the youngest in school, potentially putting them at an early intellectual disadvantage.” ’Research suggests that  tend to be highly ambitious and competitive and excel academically.’ ’According to a  ’ ’By contrast, the youngest siblings are often the most creative and entertaining in their families, which in some kids can help them end up in creative roles or   management.’ ’Finally, studies suggest that  tend to be more   and   and can also be unusually mature because they spend so much    time with their parents. Like   they can end up in   or   positions, but tend to be less satisfied with their jobs than people with siblings.’ ’In a  researchers found that people with    names often have   positions at work. One of the psychologists, Adam Alter, explains to  ”When we can process a piece of information more easily, when it’’s easier to comprehend, we come to like it more.” In a  Alter also found that companies with simpler names and ticker symbols tended to perform better in the stock market.’ ’Additionally, in a  study, the researchers found evidence to suggest that names that were viewed as the least unique were more likable. People with common names were more likely to be hired, and those with rare names were least likely to be hired. That means that the Jameses, Marys, Johns, and Patricias of the world .’ ’The small and   among us may be short on luck.’ ’’ ’Research suggests that public schools actually outperform their costlier private peer institutions. ’ ’According to their research, students at private schools generally do well because they come from wealthy backgrounds and families with more advantages. But public schools are actually better when it comes to teaching math and keeping their teachers trained in the latest instructional methods.’ ”If you ever thought about skipping algebra class, here’s a big reason not to: Higher achievement in math is correlated with a higher salary later in life.” ”Regardless of high school graduation status, students who complete advanced math courses like algebra II and geometry have been later  on average, than students who didn’t reach that level. That roughly translates to an additional $66 per   week.” ’Regular exercise and participation on a sports team are both linked to greater academic performance. In  conducted by the Los Angeles Unified School District,   were found to attend on average 21 more days of school than their peers and earn GPAs that were 0. 55 to 0. 74 points higher.’ ’ has suggested that college students who exercise regularly get better grades, and that students who study a lot are more likely to exercise on a regular basis as well.’ ’People from military backgrounds might make the best leaders, according to a  from the National Bureau of Economic Research. And knowing if someone has military experience can tell you a lot about their management style.’ ”The authors find that  tend to be (1) more conservative financially, (2) less likely to be involved with corporate fraud, and (3) better equipped to steer firms through tough times. These findings suggest the two are linked, but can’t necessarily say if one caused the other.” ”Turns out that an   probably isn’t worth your time. The cost of sleep deprivation could be greater than the knowledge you might gain from studying.” ” that the  the worse they tend to perform in class and on assessments. According to  students who receive C’s, D’s, and F’s in school get on average 25 fewer minutes of sleep than A and B students. Again, the relationship between the two is linked, not causal: There could also be an outside, unaccounted for factor that’s making students sleep less and perform less well in school. ” ”Research suggests that employees who  are generally perceived as more conscientious. They also receive higher performance ratings, on average, than employees who arrive later. Even if the   leave earlier, too, they’re still viewed that way.” ’In  researchers ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”There’s no other way to say it: Attractive people . On average,   people get hired and promoted quicker and enjoy higher salaries than their less attractive coworkers.” ’These findings could be partly attributable to the ”” a phenomenon which refers to our tendency to assume that attractive people are   great people.’ ”According to one study, more attractive CEOs also . Research shows that hiring an attractive CEO can boost stock prices on that person’s first day and any time he or she appears on television. These CEOs also tend to fare better in M&A transactions.” ’A   joke can be the quickest route to building a new relationship and can also increase productivity.  a neurotransmitter involved in efficiency, creativity, and engagement.’ ’According to  happy employees were found to be 31% more productive and generate 37% higher sales than their peers. For leaders, humor can help to win over employees and come off as empathetic and approachable.’ ’Believe it or not, people who go by  than those who don’’t. According to  of nearly 6 million names by career site  every extra letter in your first name can correspond to a $3, 600 drop in annual wages. If you’’re debating between ”Sam” and ”Samantha,” that’’s a big difference.’ ’LinkedIn has conducted similar research showing that the most popular CEO names worldwide  —   Peter, Jack, and Fred  —   are either short names or shortened versions of names. So long as your nickname sounds professional, it can help convey friendliness and openness while also earning you more money.’ ”You might think it’s superficial to focus on your outward appearance  —   but research suggests that the  have a meaningful impact on the way people perceive you.” ’For example, in one  adult male volunteers participated in mock negotiations over the sale of a factory. Of the volunteers assigned to the role of ”buyer,”   changed into suits beforehand;   changed into sweatpants and sandals; and   stayed in their normal clothes. (Volunteers were told that they were testing out equipment attached to the clothing. )’ ’Results showed that the volunteers wearing suits walked away with an average profit of $2. 1 million, compared to just $680, 000 for those wearing sweatpants and $1. 58 million for those dressed in their regular clothes.’ ’As study   Michael Kraus l, in competitive situations, dressing more formally sends a signal ”’ ’Scientists are increasingly learning that    can help you succeed at work.’ ’Specifically,  found that those who score high on measures of narcissism, which is defined as having a ’ ’’ ’’ ’A  suggests that those who look trustworthy or dominant may .’ ’While ’ ’’ ’Participants were asked to indicate how much they would pay the person in the photograph for the position of either retail manager or head of retail operations (the latter is a more senior position).’ ’’ ’’ ’A  suggests that candidates with  are more likely to win political elections.’ ’ has found that causes ’ ’ ’ ’Loathe as we might be to admit it, an unfair weight bias exists in the workplace.’ ’In  run by Wharton scientists,  ’ ’’ ’’ ’A  found that  may determine where on the corporate ladder they wind up. Specifically, among 78 executives, those with high levels of the hormone testosterone and cortisol managed fewer subordinates than men with high levels of testosterone and low levels of cortisol.’ ”While testosterone is linked to competitive and aggressive behavior, cortisol is associated with stress. High levels of cortisol seem to curb the influence of testosterone, meaning that stress may hurt men’s leadership potential.” ’’ ’ reveals that extroverted personality types tend to  than introverted types. Specifically, the two   personality types are ESTJ (which stands for Extroverted Sensing Thinking Judging) and ENTJ (Extroverted Intuitive Thinking Judging). They make average annual salaries of $77, 000 and $76, 000, respectively.’ ’Meanwhile, other research suggests that ambiverts  —   or those who display traits of both introverts and extroverts  —   are the  at work.’ ’For example, a  by Wharton professor Adam Grant found that, ’ ’’ ’ from thousands of participants in the US and Germany and found that  than their more optimistic counterparts.’ ’’ ”Importantly, the link between cynicism and salary only holds in areas with low levels of antisocial behavior, like crime. In other words, cynics are only at an economic disadvantage in contexts where their beliefs aren’t justified.” ’Science suggests that high cognitive ability in kids  in adulthood.’ ’ researchers looked at two sets of data collected from nearly 17, 000 people over several decades. At age 10 or 11, participants took cognitive tests that measured their verbal skills, reasoning, and general cognitive abilities. Throughout their 30s and 40s, they were also asked questions about their leadership activity at work, such as whether they supervised any employees and, if so, how many.’ ”Results from the first data set showed that nearly four in 10 people who’d scored high on the cognitive tests went on to become leaders, compared to a quarter of those who’d scored low. Similarly, results from the second data set showed that people who’d demonstrated high cognitive ability as kids were nearly twice as likely to take on leadership positions as those who’d demonstrated low cognitive ability.”