’  ’ ’   These days, few terms engender such  from US airline   passengers as ”.” ’ ’   Even though the term has made its way into the lexicon of many   travelers, the idea of basic economy remains enveloped by a fog   of mystery and misinformation. ’ ”   Over the past year, America’s three remaining   legacy   carriers  —    and   —   have all introduced some version of   a basic economy fare class that offers a lower priced ticket in   exchange for fewer frills and more restrictions. ” ’   So what does basic economy entail? ’ ”   Basic economy is a discount fare class that exists within an   airline’s economy cabin. As a result, the   service and   experience will be the same for basic economy as it will be for   someone who purchased a pricier main cabin economy ticket. This   means passengers who go the basic economy route will sit in the   same seats, enjoy the same   perks and amenities as   everyone else in coach. ” ”   However, there are restrictions placed upon the passengers prior   to boarding the aircraft that separate basic economy from other   fare classes. The most obvious restriction involves     luggage. All three airlines allow basic economy passengers to   bring on board one personal   that will fit underneath   the seat. However, American and United prohibits any luggage   that will require the use of an overhead bin. Delta’s basic   economy luggage policy is the same as its traditional main cabin   which allows for a personal item as well as one   complimentary   bag. ” ’  ’ ’   American and United both recommend its basic economy passengers   check their bags at the counter upon arrival at the airport.   Those basic economy passengers who bring their luggage to the   boarding area will have their bags gate checked and will be   assessed the standard checked bag fee along with a $25 gate   handling fee. (Expect to pay at least $50 for this.) ’ ’   To reduce the likelihood of confusion, United will make online     available only to passengers who qualify for free     bags or have paid to check their luggage. ’ ’   In addition, basic economy ticket holders will not be able to     seats at the time of purchase and will be assigned a   seat at  . Furthermore, any   refunds and   changes to a ticket are prohibited as are paid upgrades for   priority boarding and premium cabin access. ’ ’   Finally, basic economy fare holders will also be the last   passengers to board the aircraft. ’ ’  ’ ”   American will begin offering basic economy fares on February 10,   while United’s basic economy will enter service in the second   quarter. Only Delta’s   basic economy is already   up and running. ” ”   When booking on Delta’s website, those who select basic economy   are presented with a   outlining the differences and   restrictions of the fare class. The customer cannot complete the   transaction without acknowledging that he or she has read the   disclaimer. ” ’   From an industry perspective, basic economy allows the legacy   carriers to address the growing presence of   and      carriers such as Frontier and Spirit Airlines. ’ ’   Over the past few years, these   carriers have shown   impressive growth and now pose a threat to American, Delta, and   United in several key markets such as Denver, Chicago, and   Dallas. ’ ”   In a bid to broaden its customer base, the legacy   carriers have unbundled their main coach cabin and segmented   it into very specific product offerings and services. For   instance, those coach passengers who want more legroom can pay to   upgrade to an exit row seat. Those who want aisle access can pony   up the dough for an aisle seat. While those who want a bit more   luxury, but can’t afford business class, have the option to   pay for premium economy. And those who are primarily concerned   with price, but are unconcerned by where they sit and don’t have   any luggage can opt for basic economy seats.  ” ’  ’ ’   In general, basic economy seats are aimed at passengers who may   be enticed by the   prices and a la carte buying   options presented by these alternative airlines. Even though the   restrictions placed upon basic economy may be a bit much for most   people, they are on par with the standard baggage and ticketing   policies of these   airlines. ’ ’   The legacy carriers believe the advantage of flying basic economy   over a   alternative is more legroom, better     service, more flights, more destinations, and a broader set of   amenities such as free streaming   entertainment. ’ ’   For the legacies, this level of segmentation allows them to   better cater to the needs of specific customers while maximizing   revenue. After all, an airline is a moneymaking venture. ’ ’   With that said, the vast majority of passengers will remain main   cabin customers and be charged in the same fare class as they are   today. ’ ’  ’ ’   In Europe and Asia, there is a clear delineation between     and   carriers. Airlines such as Ryan Air,   Easyjet, Norwegian, and AirAsia dominate the   market. The   mainline international carriers have generally refrained from   introducing discount cabin products aimed directly at these     competitors. ’ ’   The higher overhead of a   carrier and the risk of   brand dilution make the implementation of a basic     product unfeasible for most international airlines. ’ ’   Instead, global carriers such as Air Canada, Singapore, and   Qantas have created separate budget brands  —   Rouge, Scoot,   Tigerair, and Jetstar  —   that operate under different business   models with lower overhead to address the   threat. ’ ’  ’ ”   America’s three legacy carriers also happen to be the three   largest airlines in the world —   each operating anywhere between   720 and 950 mainline aircraft. In addition, they have the benefit   of an absolutely massive and relatively captive domestic   market that does not really exist anywhere else  —   apart from   perhaps, China. As a result, the sheer size of their operations   and high demand for domestic travel creates such economies   of scale that negates much of the concern over brand dilution and   overhead.  ” ”   However, this doesn’t mean America’s big three have not tried   launching   brands in the past. Two of the best examples   of this happened in the last 15 years. In 2002, Delta   launched Song  —   a   boutique carrier aimed directly at   JetBlue. However, high fuel prices, a drop in demand post     the cost of maintaining a separate brand, and Delta’s own   bankruptcy forced the airline to shutter Song in 2006.  ” ’   In 2004, United Airlines introduced a   brand called Ted.   The   operation was designed to compete against   Frontier. But high fuel prices and low demand due to the   financial crisis forced United to put an end to Ted in   2009.  ’ ’  ’ ”   Whether basic economy proves to be a success for American,   Delta, and United remains to be seen. For some, it’s an   attempt to reach a broader spectrum of customers. For others,   basic economy is an affront to human decency and represents an   attack on the flying public’s dignity. ” ”   Ultimately, whether basic economy succeeds or fails is based on   consumer choice. It’s up to the flying public to vote with   our pocketbooks. Few industries put as much weight on   customer metrics as the airline industry. Even though American,   Delta, and United are three of the largest and most profitable   airlines in the world, they will notice.  ”