’  ’ ’   Sinaloa cartel chief Joaquín ”El Chapo” Guzmán was bustled into   the hands of US authorities in Ciudad Juarez early on Thursday   evening, and before the end of the night he was on the ground in   Long Island, being hustled to a detention center in New York   City. ’ ’   ” ’ ’   Guzmán appeared in a US federal court in Brooklyn on Friday,   where the litany of charges filed against him by US prosecutors   were made known to him  —   apparently for the first time. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The Mexican cartel chief ultimately pleaded not guilty, and an   additional hearing is slated for . ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   “Guzman quickly set himself apart from other Mexican transporters   with his efficiency in transporting the drugs into the United   States, including to California, Arizona and Texas, and returning   the drug proceeds to the Colombians in record time,” the memo   states. ’ ’   As  ”This effectiveness   earned him the nickname ’’El Rapido. ’’” ’ ’   Guzmán and his partners in the Sinaloa cartel gained power during   the late 1980s and 1990s, though he was    after a series of   clashes with rivals in Mexico. He   was jailed at Puente Grande prison in southwest Mexico, though he   maintained connections with his business partners during this   time. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In the 2000s, the growth of methamphetamines led Guzmán to   establish ”sources of supply for the precursor chemicals for the   production of methamphetamine in Africa and Asia, including in   China and India.” ’ ”   Guzmán’s home turf in Sinaloa state has reportedly become   . ” ’   According to US prosecutors, Guzmán bolstered and protected this   supply and distribution network through violence and graft. ’ ’   Guzmán also sent these sicarios against rival cartels,   particularly the Gulf and Los Zetas cartels, as well as the   Juarez cartel in Ciudad Juarez, which is not only  but also   served as  to his   extradition. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”These sicarios kidnapped and tortured their victims often prior   to brutally murdering them and subsequently boasted of their   exploits through gruesome videos that they posted on the   internet,” US prosecutors state in their pretrial filing. ’ ’   According to the US federal government, a number of cooperating   witnesses, including Colombian cartel leaders, will testify ”to   prove Guzman’s power, corruption and violence within the Sinaloa   Cartel,” as well as to the ”astonishing illegal profits” reaped   by Guzmán from his involvement in the drug trade. ’ ’   Some of the US government’’s purported physical evidence against   Guzmán includes ”recovered drug ledgers from Colombian cartel   bosses and suppliers, which detail the financial agreements   between Guzman and the suppliers for various drug shipments.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Guzmán has been     —   some with ties to Pablo Escobar and former President Alvaro   Uribe  —   in the past. ’ ”   Other witnesses will testify to the Sinaloa cartel’s various     methods, from tanker trucks to planes to   tunnels, and to    back into Mexico. ” ’   ”One former member of local law enforcement in Juarez, Mexico, is   expected to testify to being paid hundreds of dollars per month   to release from custody Sinaloa Cartel members who were arrested,   remove road blocks from routes over which trucks containing drug   shipments were traveling and provide armed escorts for the     trucks that were passing through their area,” the memo   states. ’ ’   Other witnesses ”will detail specific murders carried out under   Guzman’s orders, including that of Sinaloa Cartel members,   members of rival cartels and also government and law enforcement   officials.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Several witnesses is to testify to  against the Arellano Felix Organization, Gulf cartel,   Los Zetas cartel, the Juarez cartel, and the Beltran Leyva   Organization. ’ ’   One witnesses is expected to describe a house specifically   outfitted for killing victims used during the fight with the   Juarez cartel. ”The house had plastic sheets over the walls to   catch spouting blood and a drain in the floor to facilitate the   draining of blood,” the memo says. ’ ’   The US government also intends to produce evidence related to   weapons seizures, including ”evidence of a seizure in El Paso,   Texas, of a gun shipment tied to Guzman, which contained numerous     and . 50mm long rifles.” ’ ’   ”Guzman has known no other life than a life of crime and   violence,” the pretrial memo concludes. ”Driven by insatiable   power and greed, Guzman’s personal history and characteristics   demand detention to prevent him from being a danger to the   community.” ’ ’  ’ ’   US prosecutors say they have more than 40 witnesses ready to   testify against Guzmán in a trial likely to last ”” weeks. ’ ’   Until that trial is concluded, Guzmán will remain locked up in a   federal jail in New York City. ’ ”   US officials have declined for security reasons to state where   exactly he’s being held, and they appear confident there will be   no repeat of  for which Guzmán has become   known. ” ’  ’ ’  ’