’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump took to Twitter on Sunday morning for some   of his first comments on Saturday’s Women’s March on   Washington and similar marches around the US. ” ’   ”Watched protests yesterday but was under the impression that we   just had an election! Why didn’’t these people vote? Celebs hurt   cause badly,” tweeted the president. ’ ’   An hour or so later, the president seemed to strike a less   critical tone when discussing the protests: ” ’ ’   Trump also commented on the television viewership numbers   for his inauguration: ”Wow, television ratings just out: 31   million people watched the Inauguration, 11 million more than the   very good ratings from 4 years ago!” ’ ’   However, the 2009 inauguration of Barack Obama was much more   widely  with nearly 38 million viewers.  ’ ”   The tweet echoes statements made by Trump’s White House press   secretary, Sean Spicer, who  reporting on the underwhelming   crowds at Trump’s Friday inauguration.  ” ’   ”This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration,   period, both   and around the globe,” Spicer claimed   without evidence, as photographs clearly show a significantly   smaller turnout than in 2009. He accused certain reporters of   intentionally trying to misrepresent the crowd as being   small.  ’ ’   At  in front of a   wall honoring CIA officers who have been killed in the line of   duty on Saturday, Trump again defended his inauguration’’s crowd   size after promising to back the CIA ”1, 000%.” ’ ’   ”We had a massive field of people . .. Packed. I get up this   morning, I turn on one of the networks, and they show an empty   field,” said Trump at CIA headquarters in Langley,   Virginia.  ’ ’  ’ ’   This prompted   Director John Brennan, who served under   President Obama, to say that Trump ”should be ashamed of himself   ” for using the occasion to rage against the media, calling it a   ”despicable display of   in front of CIA’s   Memorial Wall of Agency heroes,”  Nick Shapiro.  ’ ’   But Trump’’s Sunday morning tweet characterized the event   differently: ” ’