’  ’ ”   NBC anchor Chuck Todd confronted President Donald Trump’s top   counselor over the new White House press secretary’s false   statements about the inauguration crowd sizes. ” ’   In a  on Sunday’’s ”Meet The Press,” Conway   dismissed Todd’’s question about why press secretary Sean Spicer    that Trump’’s inauguration crowd was the ”largest   audience to ever witness an inauguration” despite  . ’ ’   ”I don’’t think ultimately presidents are judged by crowd sizes.   They’’re judged by their accomplishments,” Conway   said, noting the inauguration’’s television ratings. ’ ’   But Todd continued to press Conway, who said he was not   treating Spicer with respect. ’ ’   ”You make a reasonable and rational case for why crowd sizes   don’’t matter. You did not answer the question,” Todd said. ”Why   put him out there for the very first time to utter a provable   falsehood?” ’ ’   ”If we’’re going to keep referring to our press secretary in those   types of terms, we’’re going to have to rethink our relationship   here,” Conway replied. ’ ’   The Trump counselor then argued that journalists intentionally   mislead readers about Trump, noting that Time Magazine reporter   Zeke Miller  sent out a White House pool report   asserting that the bust of Martin Luther King Jr. had been   removed from the Oval Office, an inaccurate claim that Miller   quickly corrected within minutes. ’ ’   ”We allowed the press in and what happens almost immediately? A   falsehood is told about removing the bust of Martin Luther King   Jr. from the Oval Office,” Conway said. ’ ”   But Todd still appeared unsatisfied with Conway’s response. ” ’   ”You did not answer the question of why the president asked the   White House press secretary to come out in front of the podium   for the first time and utter a falsehood. Why did he do that? It   undermines the credibility of the entire White House press office   on day one,” Todd said. ’ ’   ”No it doesn’’t, don’’t be so overly dramatic about it, Chuck.   You’’re saying it’’s a falsehood, and Sean Spicer, our press   secretary is giving alternative facts to that,” Conway shot back. ’ ’   ”Wait a minute, alternative facts? Alternative facts  —   four of   the five facts he uttered, the one that he got right was Zeke   Miller, four of the five facts he uttered are not true.   Alternative facts are not facts  —   they’’re falsehoods,” Todd   replied. ’ ”   Despite numerous pieces of photographic evidence and public   transportation ridership statistics, over the weekend, Trump   and his top team appeared insistent on claiming that media   outlets were somehow colluding to obscure the facts about the   crowd size at Trump’s inauguration. ” ’   Trump himself claimed that there were over a million people at   the inauguration despite the fact that  put the crowd at closer to 250, 000. There are no   official government estimates of the crowd size. ’ ’   ”We had a massive field of people. You saw that. Packed,”   Trump said during an address at CIA headquarter in Virginia   on Saturday. ”I get up this morning, I turn on one of the   networks, they show an empty field. I said, wait a minute, I made   a speech. I looked out, it looked like a million, a million and a   half people. They showed a field where there were practically   nobody standing there.” ’ ’ ’