’  ’ ’   For Aryeh Bourkoff, the star tech, media, and telecom   (TMT) banker and founder of the boutique bank LionTree, 2017 will   be a year of uncertainty. ’ ’   But it will also be ripe with opportunity, especially in the TMT   and consumer spaces. ’ ”   That’s the message Bourkoff gave his team in   a   letter sent out in December. ” ’   ”Politics and technology can be destabilizing forces. .. They   challenge our economic and civil orders,” Bourkoff, who is   a former vice chairman at UBS, wrote. ’ ’   ”I have always believed that in order to best serve the firm and   our clients, we must understand new uncertainties, create   strategies to account for them and remain nimble and alert to   sudden shifts in the landscape.” ’ ’   He referred specifically to the election of Donald Trump as US   president and said that political shift could lead to a   repatriation of cash, among other things. That could free up   cash for mergers and acquisitions  —   especially for companies like   Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet, Cisco, and Oracle, which combined   hold some $500 billion in cash overseas. ’ ”   But it’s not just going to be mergers, Bourkoff wrote:  ” ’   He said the market is underpricing the risk these shifts pose as   they create volatility and dislocation in asset prices. ’ ’   Within the media industry, specifically, Bourkoff said that   technologies and distribution platforms will continue to evolve   but the global appetite for content will remain constant. ’ ’   ”In this paradigm, value shifts to the bookends  —   the underlying   content and the technology platforms that touch the end user  —     and the   is increasingly pressured,” he said. ’ ’   That could affect future dealmaking. ’ ’   He said large media brands  —   like Time Warner, Comcast, and   Verizon  —   and tech giants  —   like Apple, Netflix, and Facebook  —     have scale, access to capital, and global audiences. But they   need to innovate and adapt to younger audiences and changing   consumer preferences. ’ ’   Their disruptors are companies like Snap, Buzzfeed, Jaunt   VR, and Thrillist. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’As we build out LionTree in 2017, I firmly     believe it has never been more important to take a       investment view as it is now,” he said.   ’