’    ’ ”   Viktor Shvets is Macquarie’s head of global equity strategy and     equity strategy. ” ’   We recently spoke with him about the biggest problem facing the   Chinese economy.  ’ ”   This is part two of a series.  was a discussion on the populism that’s   sweeping the globe and the role technology has played. ” ’ This interview was lightly edited for clarity. ’ ”Jonathan Garber: China’s FX reserves have been   falling for almost three years now. Is that China’s biggest   problem, or is it something else? ” ”Viktor Shvets: The essence of China’s problem is   not reserves but the fact that their saving rates are too high   (45%+ of GDP). When you’re saving so much money, you either have   to invest it or you have to export it to other countries. China   has been doing both. So the problem China has is that as it   continues to invest within the country itself, gradually return   on investment and viability of those investments keeps declining.   They’re running now into constraints on how much they can invest   within China, and on the other hand, the global economy   increasingly can no longer absorb China’s surpluses, because   global trade is not growing and all other countries (including   the US) are trying to  . Global trade is only growing   zero to 2%. It’s not growing 6% anymore the way it did over the   previous 25 to 30 years. ” ”   Every country is trying to export their domestic problems and   adjustments to other countries. That’s why Germany is running 8%   10% current account surpluses and why the US doesn’t want to run   the same current account deficit the way they used to in the   past. That’s the problem. China is a little bit like a squirrel   in a wheel, they have to continue running faster and faster in   order to stand still. ” ”   The problem is, as returns on investment continue to go down you   need to keep on borrowing, and so debt levels escalate. This is   pretty much what happened in Japan in the 1970s and 1980s. That’s   what happened in the US in the second half of the 19th century   when you had booms and busts on railways and canals. That’s what   happened to Brazil in the 1960s, 70s, leading into the early   1980s. That’s what happened to Thailand and Malaysia in the 1980s   and 1990s leading to the   crisis. China is on exactly   the same trajectory: a high level of investment, high level of   debt, and declining return on investment. ” ’     ’ ’   Eventually, those sorts of processes blow up, but there is a   difference between running an externally or an internally based   economy. What I mean by that, if you think of Brazil in   the 60s, 70s, early 80s, they were the miracle child prior   to China. But as Brazil ran out of savings, it started to depend   more and more on foreign capital flow. Brazil was sustaining   rising current account deficits. In other words, they had a high   level of external vulnerability. When you’’re externally based and   your leverage reaches a certain level, you just collapse, because   the foreigners decide, ”Okay, enough is enough.” That’’s what also   happened to Malaysia and Thailand leading to 1997, 98. ’ ’   On the other hand, if you have an internalized model, whereby   most of the things are done internally with very limited external   vulnerability  —   an example of that was Japan through   the 1970s and 1980s  —   then externally nobody can push you   around. These countries tend to have very high saving rates and   run current account surpluses, and so what happens is that those   sorts of countries tend to collapse much more slowly. These   countries tend to look very strong until suddenly they do not.   Younger people tend to forget how strong Japan looked in   the 1980s and the then prevailing view that Japan would take   over the world. ’ ”   That’s what China’s going through. ROEs are declining, return on   invested capital is declining, overinvestment is growing, total   factor productivity, we talked about the US being almost at zero,   in China it is negative. Leverage levels are now higher than they   are in the US if you include the financial sector. All the signs   are there, but at this stage, it’s still sustainable. ” ”   The reason it’s sustainable is that unlike the US, or unlike   Brazil back in the 60s and 80s, in China there are no significant   differences between fiscal and monetary policies. There are no   differences between monetary policies and banking policies.   Although, notionally, the private sector is more than half   of China’s corporates, the reality is quite different. In most   cases, there has never been a proper delineation of asset   claims between the public and private sectors. If you happen to   be a property developing company, you’re still basically   piggybacking on what the government wants to do and how the   government and local administrators want to allocate the land. If   you are a coal mining company, you’re still in the same position.   If you’re a cement company, you’re still in the same position.   There are certain areas of the Chinese economy where the state   never had claims in the first place. In those areas, there are   real private sector companies. They tend to be mostly in IT and   technology areas, but in most of China, there is really very   little difference in my view between the public and private   sectors. ” ”   If you’re in a position that you don’t have a difference between   fiscal and monetary policies and you don’t have a difference   between monetary policies and banking policies and there is no   difference between the public and private sector, then   effectively you just keep pumping liquidity with limited   consequences, because you are not really facing currency and bond   market constraints. That’s part of the reason why China has been   recently negating some of the capital deregulatory moves that   they have done over the previous two years. ” ”   To put it another way, how can Donald Trump make fiscal policy   proactive to a stage that it actually makes a difference? Fiscal   policy can make a difference if it’s large, quick, and it’s   funded by brand new money. If it’s small, slow, and you borrow to   fund it, it makes little difference. Hence, China can have   a significant   impact, but most developed   countries cannot because they tend to have a separation   between fiscal and monetary policies as well as between monetary   and banking policies. However, there are no free lunches, and   China’s high degree of policy flexibility creates   significant domestic dislocations. ” ’  ’ ”Garber: What’s large for China? What size is   needed? ” ”Shvets: For example, global reflation in 2016,   it’s all due to China pretty much. China delivered for everyone   improvements in leading indicators and manufacturing output. Why   can China do that and the US cannot? The reason is, go back to my   original point. ” ”   In China, there is no difference between fiscal and monetary   policy. There is no independence of the central bank. There is no   difference between monetary policy and banking policy. In China,   the People’s Bank of China just injects liquidity and directs the   banks where that liquidity should go. As we discussed a second   ago, in most instances there is no difference between the public   and private sector, so basically corporates do in many ways what   they’re supposed to do. The transmission mechanism is there, and   every time China invests, effectively it’s brand new money coming   into the system. ” ”   In the US, we can debate how much the Federal Reserve has been   politicized or not politicized, but there’s no question the   Federal Reserve enjoys much greater independence. Fiscal and   monetary policy are only loosely coordinated. In fact,   sometimes they actually act in opposite directions. In the   US, there is a real private sector that, as I said, it will bend   towards the public sector and politics but it doesn’t break. The   private sector does not necessarily do what they’re supposed to   do, and they don’t necessarily push the money the way they’re   supposed to into the real economy. That’s part of the reason why   QE ended up just being trapped in the financial sector and not   really going down to the ground at all. ” ”   The incoming administration suggested that it wants to invest $1   trillion over 10 years (remember China does $1 trillion every   seven, eight months). My principle is that to make a meaningful   difference it has to be large, quick and funded through new   money. If you spread it over time whilst trying to fund it   through   sheet vehicles which by definition makes it   much smaller in size and if you can’t push it through Congress,   or if you do push it through Congress but it ends up making small   projects here and there to satisfy the local requirements of   their districts, and in order to fund it, if you borrow the   money, then you’re crowding out other investments and you   actually are not going to achieve much at all. ” ”   On the other hand, the way China does it is that it is large and   they inject fresh money quickly. They determine how much   provisioning banking sector will do, how much of the loans they   will evergreen. They direct the banks to increase or decrease   lending, which the banks generally do, and then on the other side   of the coin, you actually have industries that in many ways will   do exactly as intended. As I said, there is a real private sector   in China, but it’s much much smaller than what people think it   is. It’s certainly not over 50% which is what statistics   indicate. In China, therefore, you have a control and command   system. That works. ” ”   Ultimately, that control and command system creates domestic   anomalies. That’s why there are property bubbles and wealth   management bubbles. That system can only work within protected   barriers. In other words, you have to have capital controls in   place so that you’re actually trapping that liquidity exactly   where you want it to be. China would argue that even they cannot   really determine the outcomes, and that’s true. But they have a   much higher degree of control, and that’s why China can   stimulate, and why it can have a dramatic impact on the global   economy. ”