’  ’ ”   The man who created the alkaline diet, a bogus eating regimen   based on the idea that certain foods cause your body’s pH levels   to become acidic, faces up to three years in prison, the . ” ’   Robert Young, who wrote the book ”The pH Miracle,” claimed that   diseases were caused by acidity in the blood. That claim had   influenced one of the most popular food writers in the UK,   . Young was convicted last   year on two charges of practicing medicine without a license   after he was found to have bought his doctorate online, according   to the BBC. ’ ’   Young was convicted last year on two charges of practicing   medicine without a license after he was found to have bought his   doctorate online, according to the BBC. ’ ”   The alkaline diet gained some traction after  at this year’s Golden Globes as the way   she stays in shape, but the idea has been around for a while. The   idea behind the alkaline diet is that  like meat, wheat, and sugar   cause your body to produce acid, which leads to health problems   such as bone loss, muscle loss, and back pain. ” ’   But what you eat has very little effect on the acid   concentrations in your blood. As my colleague  blood pH levels hover around 7. 4  —     neither extremely acidic (pH level of 0) or basic (pH level of   14). ’ ’’ ’   While what you eat can affect the acidity of your urine, your    to keep your blood pH levels steady. One small      for example, found that a diet high in protein and low in carbs   had a strong effect on urinary acidity but appeared to cause very   little change in blood pH. ’ ’   The  that Young advised a woman who was   dying from breast cancer, British army officer Naima     who paid Young thousands of dollars for his   alkaline treatment, which predominantly consisted of baking soda   administered intravenously. According to the BBC,     and her family ended up paying Young more than $77, 000 (£62, 700)   for the treatment and his advice. ’ ’     stayed at Young’’s facility, the ”,” for three months, according to the BBC, until her   condition worsened and she was taken to the hospital. She died at   age 27. ’ ”   In 2011, the Medical Board of California began an investigation   at Young’s ranch, where it discovered that none of the 15 cancer   patients Young treated there outlived their prognosis. One woman   died from congestive heart failure after being given 33   intravenous sodium bicarbonate drips over 31 days at a cost of   $550 each, according to the BBC. ”