’  ’ ’   President Trump argues that too many US workers have lost their   jobs to foreign peers as companies have offshored manufacturing. ’ ’   US companies need to bring those jobs back and, in doing so,   restore America’s industrial greatness. His diagnosis isn’t   altogether wrong: fewer companies manufacture cars, for instance,   in the US than was previously the case. But this thesis is too   simplistic. ’ ’   US companies are really just trying to allocate capital   efficiently when they manufacture goods outside of the US. At a   company level, it makes sense to manufacture your goods in a   country where wages are competitive, standards are high and trade   agreements are in place. Wages are lower in Mexico than the US   and it has decent production standards and trade agreements with   the US. ’ ’   The debate often gets boiled down to one about wages. But   companies choose to base their resources in countries for a whole   range of reasons. For instance, BMW follows a motto “production   follows the market”. It avoids import duties by developing a   market for its cars through manufacturing them in that market. As   a result it has factories in South Africa, Thailand, Great   Britain and the US. ’ ’   Establishing a plant in South Carolina in 1994 allowed them to   increase sales in the country from 50, 000 to 260, 000, making the   US the company’s single largest market. The reason that BMW   builds factories where they do is driven by the efficient   allocation of capital. If it were forced to move all   manufacturing back to Germany then it would impact the entire   company’s strategy, not just its wage bill. ’ ’   If President Trump really does push companies to base more of   their production in the US then those that specialise in robotics   and automation will probably be the winners. Companies won’t   automatically employ more Americans. They will rethink their   strategies and some will inevitably look to automation as a way   to avoid the higher costs of employing US workers. ’ ’  ’ ’   This will accelerate a global trend towards greater automation   that is already going on. Boston Consulting Group thinks the   share of tasks performed by robots will increase from 10 percent   to 25 percent by 2025. Amazon has an entire division dedicated to   robotics. Its acquisition of robotics company Kiva in 2012 means   much more of what goes on in Amazon’s vast warehouses is being   automated. Humans still have a role but the investment is   squarely in robotics. Three years ago the US Bureau of Labor   Statistics produced projections of which jobs will see the   largest declines and growth between 2014 and 2024. Manufacturing   is predicted to decline more than any other major sector. Not all   of this is because of automation, but it will play a part. ’ ’   Companies reshoring to the US will not just rethink their   manufacturing processes either. They will look to reduce costs   across the business. That could well mean automating other areas   of the business from payroll to distribution. Especially given   the fact that countries like the US are actively fostering the   technology that makes this possible. US companies are developing   driverless vehicles and authorities are supporting that   development by giving safety and regulatory guidance. There is   much less certainty in developing markets about how such   technology will develop. It is therefore easy to see the appeal   of driverless vehicles to a manufacturer in Milwaukee over one in   Mexico. ’ ’   This is where the opportunity really lies for the US. It cannot   realistically bring back the jobs that have gone. Doing so would   create a new breed of zombie company, ticking over but with very   thin margins. Instead, the US can continue to dominate the world   in the development of the automation and robotics technology   which all companies are scrambling to embrace. When Amazon bought   Kiva it immediately gained a competitive advantage because it   bought the market leading robotics firm. Other companies who   relied on Kiva’s technology were left having to find an   alternative. In buying Kiva, Amazon opened up a big competitive   gap over other companies. ’ ’   The big question is whether this new technology can create the   amount of jobs, either directly or indirectly, to replace those   lost to this   technological advancement. No one really   knows the answer. But what is clear is that, if America is going   to keep benefiting from this technological boom, then it needs to   focus on the efficient allocation of workers and capital into     industries. President Trump’s current approach will   force companies to react but it probably won’t achieve what he   hopes it will. ’ ’ Paul Diggle is Senior Economist, Investment Solutions at   Aberdeen Asset Management.  ’