’  ’ ’   Sen. Rand Paul, the   Republican and onetime   presidential candidate, introduced his version of a replacement   for the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. ’ ”   The bill, named the Obamacare Replacement Act, would eliminate   several provisions of the ACA, including the individual mandate   and minimums on coverage standards. The  doesn’t mention any provision to allow   parents to keep a child on their insurance until they turn 26. ” ”   Interestingly, Paul’s plan would provide a   window for   people with preexisting conditions to sign up for care. It would   then revert to   rules in which people with preexisting   conditions could still get coverage in the group market. It’s   unclear what would happen to people with preexisting conditions   in the individual market after the       period. ” ’   Additionally, the bill would provide every American a tax credit   worth up to $5, 000 for contributions to a health savings account   to put toward health insurance and other healthcare costs. ’ ’   ”Getting government out of the American people’’s way and putting   them back in charge of their own healthcare decisions will   deliver a strong, efficient system that doesn’’t force them to   empty out their pockets to cover their medical bills,” Paul, who   is also an ophthalmologist, said in a press release announcing   the bill. ’ ’’ ’   However, Paul also said that a repeal of the ACA should not move   forward without a replacement ready to go. ’ ’   ”There is no excuse for waiting to craft an alternative until   after we repeal Obamacare, and the Obamacare Replacement Act   charts a new path forward that will insure the most people   possible at the lowest price,” the release said. ’ ’   Paul was the only Republican senator to vote against a resolution   that kicked off the ACA repeal process, citing concerns that a   repeal without replacement would increase the federal budget   deficit. ’ ”   According to the fact sheet, Paul’s bill would change the   healthcare market in several other ways. Here are the highlights: ” ”   This is the second replacement bill to be advanced in the past   week by Republicans; the first was a . Paul’s bill,   however, would eliminate more of the ACA’s programs and   protections than Cassidy and Collins’ bill would. ”