’  ’ ’   A   Democratic congresswoman from Hawaii said she met   with Syrian President Bashar   during a secret   ” ” trip she took to the country recently. ’ ’   Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, of Hawaii,  on Wednesday that when she went to the country earlier   this month she initially hadn’’t planned on meeting with Assad.   But when CNN’’s Jake Tapper asked Gabbard if she met with the   authoritarian ruler, she answered, ”I did.” ’ ’   ”My reason for going to visit Syria was really because of the   suffering of the Syrian people that has been weighing heavily on   my heart,” she said. ”I wanted to see if there was in some small   way that I could express the love and the ’’aloha’’ and the care   that the American people have for the people of Syria and to see   firsthand what was happening there.” ’ ’   Gabbard released a statement shortly after the CNN interview   aired. ’ ’   ”My visit to Syria has made it abundantly clear: Our   counterproductive regime change war does not serve America’’s   interest, and it certainly isn’’t in the interest of the Syrian   people,” she said in the statement. ’ ”   Gabbard was in Syria for four days. The nonprofit Arab American   Community Center for Economic and Social Services (AACCESS) —  Ohio   sponsored the trip, according to Gabbard’s statement. ” ”   Obama administration officials have repeatedly insisted that   Assad, who has been accused of massacring his own people, must   step down. But the US hasn’t directly intervened to bring an end   to his brutal rule. ” ’   Gabbard said in her statement that she returned to the US ”with   even greater resolve to end our illegal war to overthrow the   Syrian government.” ’ ”   Gabbard has been a vocal opponent of the Obama administration’s   calls for Assad to relinquish power. On December 8, she   introduced to Congress the  which would prohibit the US   government from funding or arming extremist groups like Jabhat   Fateh   Al Qaeda, and ISIS. ” ’   ”When the opportunity arose to meet with [Assad] I did so   because I felt it’’s important that if we profess to truly care   about the Syrian people, about their suffering, then we’’ve got to   be able to meet with anyone that we need to if there’’s a   possibility that we could achieve peace,” Gabbard said. ”And   that’’s exactly what we’’ve talked about.” ’ ’   When Tapper noted the crimes Assad has been accused of,   Gabbard defended her choice to meet with him. ’ ’   ”Whatever you think about President Assad, the fact is that he is   the president of Syria,” she said. ”In order for any peace   agreement, in order for any possibility of a viable peace   agreement to occur, there has to be a conversation with him. The   Syrian people will determine his outcome and what happens with   their government and their future.” ’ ’   Gabbard also repeated a line that the Assad regime has long   pushed  —   that there are no moderate rebels left in Syria. ’ ’   ”Every place that I went, every person that I spoke to, I asked   this question to them [about arming moderate rebels] and without   hesitation they said, ’’There are no moderate rebels,’’ ’’Who are   these moderate rebels that people keep speaking of? ’’” Gabbard   said. ”Regardless of the name of these groups, the strongest   fighting force on the ground in Syria is   or Al Qaeda and   ISIS. That is a fact.” ’ ”   Assad often argues that his opposition is composed entirely of   extremists. This is a convenient argument for his regime  —     Western governments won’t support terrorists, so if Assad frames   the Syrian civil war as a conflict between his government and   terrorists who oppose him, he looks like the better option. ” ’   Gabbard ended her statement with a plea. ’ ’   ”The US must stop supporting terrorists who are destroying Syria   and her people,” she said. ”The US and other countries fueling   this war must stop immediately. We must allow the Syrian people   to try to recover from this terrible war.” ’ ’   Syria, which has been thoroughly ravaged by a civil war that is   nearing its sixth year, is generally inaccessible to Americans.   Journalists who have reported from Syria in recent years   have coordinated their trips with the Assad government and have   had their travels carefully monitored and controlled. ’ ”   Gabbard visited Damascus, Syria’s capital, while she was inside   the country. She also visited Aleppo, a major city that has been   the scene of intense fighting between the regime and rebels in   recent months. ” ’   Gabbard is a member of the House Armed Services and Foreign   Affairs committees.  in late November to   discuss how to avoid ”the drumbeats of war” that may lead to US   intervention in Syria, among other   concerns. ’ ’ ’ ’Rep. Tulsi Gabbard met with Assad in Syria, she explains to   ’ ”   Gabbard’s full statement is below: ” ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. ’