’  ’ ”   On Tuesday, the state department under President Donald Trump    one of Barack   Obama’s final acts as US president  —   the   —   which starkly contrasts with Trump’s     agenda.  ” ”   Obama’s move came as a shock to many, as the funds had   congressional holds on them, which don’t legally bind the   president but have historically been respected.  ” ’   Trump, who took office just hours after Obama’’s decision to   release the funds, has taken a hard line against the   Palestinians, describing their funding of terrorism and the   larger situation in the West Bank and Gaza as a ”deplorable,   deplorable situation” in  in March. ’ ’   ”I was tracking President Obama’’s   moves on the   Palestinians, and this issue never came up once . .. Most analysts   and observers didn’’t think Obama would or could do this,” Dr.   Jonathan Schanzer of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies   told Business Insider. ’ ’   But the $221 million represents just a portion of the total,   regularly scheduled US aid to Palestine, which totaled . ’ ’   ”The US and Israel both fund the Palestinian Authority because   its stability contributes to Israeli security,” Michael   Koplow, a Middle East analyst at the Israel Policy Forum, told   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”The reason that the West Bank has not turned into a haven for   terrorism and a launching ground for rocket attacks, in contrast   to Gaza, is because of the robust security cooperation between   the Israeli Defense Forces and the Palestinian Authority security   forces. The IDF and the Israeli government are the biggest   lobbyists of Congress in favor of continuing Palestinian aid,”   said Koplow.  ’ ’   According to Koplow, though the Israelis and their supporters in   the US may condemn the Palestinian Authority and their actions,   they continually fund and prop up the organization for a lack of   a better alternative. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Should the PA collapse, the scenarios range from the Israeli   military having to reenter the entirety of the West Bank to a   complete Hamas takeover. Both the US and Israel are willing to   put up with and fund Palestinian Authority corruption,   ineffective government, and incitement in order to ensure the   security cooperation that safeguards Israeli security,” said   Koplow. ’ ’   However, a few GOP lawmakers decided to draw the line on the $221   million Obama intended to send to the PA. ’ ’   Two GOP lawmakers Ed Royce of California, the chairman of the   House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Kay Granger of Texas, who   sits on the House Appropriations Committee, had placed holds on   the funds as the Palestinian Authority had pursued ”a unilateral   tract towards statehood and they were not trying to work with   Israel,” said Schanzer. ’ ’   By putting the payment under review, the Trump administration   seems to be siding with the GOP lawmakers, and the Israelis   themselves, who recently moved to  after a wave of attacks on Israelis in the West   Bank this month. ’ ’  ’ ’   Indeed, the Palestinians have been making unilateral pushes for   statehood, but the Israelis had also pushed forward with   initiatives that troubled the Obama administration. The Obama   administration made as much clear in December, when the UN   Security Council  on Palestinian land. ’ ’   The US refused to vote on the resolution, effectively allowing it   to pass. ’ ’   Trump quickly and sharply criticized this move. ”We cannot   continue to let Israel be treated with such total disdain and   disrespect,” Trump tweeted. ”They used to have a great friend in   the US, but . .. not anymore. The beginning of the end was the   horrible Iran deal, and now this (UN)! Stay strong Israel,   January 20th is fast approaching!” ’ ’   Koplow said Obama likely felt ”frustration with Israeli   settlement activity despite repeated pleas from the White House   and the State Department.” This frustration was ”compounded to an   unprecedented degree by the   —   which will   legalize every unauthorized outpost and building in the West Bank   that are currently illegal under Israeli law,” said Koplow. ’ ’  ’ ”   The bill has only made it through the preliminary stages of   Israel’s legislature, but has upset Washington and many in the   international community nonetheless. ” ”   So while the Palestinian Authority remains corrupt, and a   sponsor of terror, the decision on the Israelis part to attempt   to barrel ahead with the settlements in the West Bank and   Gaza likely prompted Obama’s decision to try to release   the funds in his final hours. ” ’   Meanwhile, President Trump has repeatedly floated the idea of   moving the US embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, which PA President   . His   administration will review the funding and possibly adjust it   should it clash with his strategy in the region, the   Associated Press reports. ’