’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump on Thursday afternoon threw out an idea   for financing his wall with  to the US. ’ ’   He did, after all, promise that Mexico would pay for the wall   while on the campaign trail. ’ ’   The problem is, if he puts a 20% tariff on goods coming in from   Mexico, the US will most certainly pay for it too. (The plan   would also violate international trade law  in the World Trade Organization, and our   trade pacts with Mexico, just to be clear.) ’ ’   ”Trump’’s plans to finance his wall are going to hit the auto   industry like a ton of bricks,” said Lee Branstetter, a professor   of economics and public policy at Carnegie Mellon. ”The   consequences for American workers and American business would be   immediate.” ’ ’ fell 2% on   this news. ’ ’’ ”   Mexico ships $50. 5 billion in finished cars and $501 billion in   car parts to the US, . Over the   past six years, US car manufacturers have invested $24 billion in   Mexico’s auto industry. ” ’   But even before that, any disruption in the flow of goods between   the US and Mexico was enough to bring Detroit to its knees. ’ ’   The Peterson Institute of International Economics put a solid   example of this in a recent report: ’ ’   Now, because trade treaties also affect tax policy, changing it   is not 100% clearly up to the executive branch of the government.   But Trump could argue the tariff is necessary in the face of a   national emergency. It would take a minute before his claim was   ultimately challenged in court. ’ ’   ”Conceivably a President Trump could instruct his officials to   investigate the national security implications for the US   industrial heartland resulting from thousands of Chinese and   Mexican imports,” the Peterson Institute said in its report.   ”Without exception, the courts defer to executive branch   determinations of national security. Hence, following such an   investigation, it is conceivable that President Trump could   impose high tariffs on wide swaths of imported merchandise.” ’ ’   Naturally, that would mean higher prices. But perhaps that is   worth it to some Americans who are concerned about illegal   immigration and drug trafficking. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’