’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   Setting a   tone on national security,   President Donald Trump on Friday ordered strict new screening for    to keep ”radical Islamic terrorists” out of   the United States and alternated tough talk with kind words in   his diplomatic standoff with Mexico. ’ ”   Trump traveled to the Pentagon, where he joined Defense Secretary   Jim Mattis for the signing of an executive action to bring   sweeping changes to the nation’s  policies   and put in motion his plans to build up the nation’s military. ” ’   ”We want to ensure that we are not admitting into our country the   very threats our soldiers are fighting overseas,” he said. ”We   only want to admit those into our country who will support our   country and love deeply our people.” ’ ’   During his election campaign against Hillary Clinton, Trump   pledged to put in place ”extreme vetting” procedures to screen   people coming to the U. S. from countries with terrorism ties. The   order imposes a   ban on all entry to the United States from   countries with terrorism concerns. ’ ”   However, it’s unclear from the law cited in the directive   specifically which countries are affected. A draft of the order   had designated seven predominantly Muslim countries: Iran, Iraq,   Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. The White House did not   immediately provide clarity on the affected countries. ” ”   The order also halts entry to the U. S. by Syrian    until the president determines that changes   to the  assistance program ensure that   admitting them won’t compromise national security. ” ’  ’ ’   Trump also signed a presidential memorandum on ”rebuilding” the   U. S. Armed Forces, giving Mattis 30 days to conduct a ”readiness”   review and report back on steps that can be taken this year to   improve conditions. ’ ’   Joined earlier in the day at the White House by British Prime   Minister Theresa May, Trump reaffirmed the United States’’   ”special relationship” with Great Britain. ’ ’   But he was also asked about more contentious issues, including   his recent statements that torture ”does work” in prying   information out of terror suspects. Giving ground, he said his   defense secretary’’s opposition would override his own belief.   Hours later he stood at the Pentagon as Mattis, the retired   general, was sworn in as the military’’s chief. ’ ’   Trump was also pressed on whether he would revert back to     use of torture, in the news since The Associated Press   and other news organizations obtained copies of a draft executive   order signaling sweeping changes to U. S. interrogation and   detention policy. ’ ’   Trump said he would defer to the views of Mattis, who has   questioned the effectiveness of such practices as waterboarding,   which simulates drowning. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”He has stated publicly that he does not necessarily believe in   torture or waterboarding, or however you want to define it. . .. I   don’’t necessarily agree. But I would tell you that he will   override because I’’m giving him that power. He’’s an expert,”   Trump said. ’ ’   The draft order, which the White House said was not official,   also would reverse Obama’’s effort to close the military detention   center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba  —   a place Trump has said he wants   to fill up ”with bad dudes.” ’ ”   The draft also requests recommendations on whether the U. S.   should reopen CIA detention facilities outside the United States.   Critics said the clandestine sites have marred America’s image on   the world stage. ” ’   Trump held firm Friday on another controversy  —   trade and illegal   immigration from Mexico. He told reporters at a joint news   conference with May that he had a ”very good call” with Mexican   President Enrique Pena Nieto earlier in the day, but he   reaffirmed his belief that Mexico has ”outnegotiated and beat us   to a pulp” on trade  —   and that would change. ’ ’   ”We’’re no longer going to be the country that doesn’’t know what   it’’s doing,” he declared a day after the Mexican leader canceled   his visit to Washington in response to Trump’’s plans to build a   border wall and have Mexico pay for it. ’ ’  ’ ’   While the  actions are aimed at thwarting   terrorists, the border wall is more for keeping out immigrants   trying to enter the U. S. for economic reasons  —   though Trump has   continually also raised concerns about criminals flowing north. ’ ’   The flurry of national security moves and foreign policy outreach   capped a hectic first week for Trump at the White House, giving   Americans an initial look at how he intends to position the   United States around the globe. ’ ’   Trump, who met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon,   has the authority to determine how many  are   accepted annually, and he can suspend the program at any time. ’ ’ processing was suspended in the immediate   aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks and restarted months later. ’ ’   During the past budget year, the U. S. accepted 84, 995    including 12, 587 people from Syria.   President Barack Obama had set the  limit for   this budget year at 110, 000. ’ ’   Trump, according to the executive action, plans to cut that to   50, 000. The order says that while the program is suspended, the   U. S. may admit people on a    basis when ”in the   national interest” and the government will continue to process    requests from people claiming religious   persecution, ”provided that the religion of the individual is a   minority religion in the individual’’s country.” That suggests it   would allow the admission of Christians from     countries. ’ ’   In an interview with CBN News, Trump said persecuted Christians   would be given priority in applying for    status. ”We are going to help them,” Trump said. ”They’’ve been   horribly treated.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Applauded by some in his own party, Trump’s    action . ” ’   ”Tears are running down the cheeks of the Statue of Liberty   tonight as a grand tradition of America, welcoming immigrants,   that has existed since America was founded has been stomped   upon,” said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York. ’ ”   Trump’s order was signed on Holocaust Remembrance Day, which   brought to mind the global effort to help    during World War II and its aftermath. ” ’   On another international issue, Trump is expected on Saturday to   speak by phone with Russian President Vladimir Putin. During the   news conference with May, he was asked if he was considering   lifting U. S. sanctions against Russia. But Trump was   noncommittal, saying, ”We’’ll see what happens. As far as the   sanctions, very early to be talking about that.” ’ ”   Obama’s administration and the European Union slapped Moscow with   sanctions for its annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula and   support for a   insurgency in eastern Ukraine. Relations   have plunged to   War lows over Ukraine, Putin’s backing   of Syrian President Bashar Assad and allegations of Russian   meddling in the U. S. elections. ” ’   May, for her part, said the United Kingdom supports continuing   the sanctions for now. ’