’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump on Saturday defended his executive order   barring travelers from seven   countries from   entering the US. ’ ’   ”It’’s not a Muslim ban,” Trump told reporters in the Oval Office   as he signed several executive orders. ’ ’   ”It’’s working out very nicely. You see it at the airports, you   see it all over,” he added. ’ ”   Trump’s order halted refugee arrivals into the US for 120 days,   and it barred citizens of Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, and   Yemen for 90 days. ” ’   The order was meant to ”protect the United States from foreign   nationals entering from countries compromised by terrorism” and   implement ”a more rigorous vetting process.” ’ ’   But the new restrictions caused chaos and confusion at airports   across the country on Saturday, as refugees and even permanent   residents of the US were detained by border agents. ’ ’   A  that people from the   seven countries who hold US green cards will be cleared to enter   the US on a    basis. If they plan to travel outside   the country, they must now check with a US consulate before   leaving to find out if they can return, the official said. ’ ’   The official also rebuked the notion that Trump’’s order amounted   to a Muslim ban, noting that several predominantly Muslim   countries are not affected. The official said the number of   people affected by the action is ”relatively small.” ’ ’   ”It’s important to keep in mind that no person living or residing   overseas has a right to entry to the US,” the official said. ’ ’   Lawyers have already  to Trump’’s order, arguing it is   ”unconstitutional” and ”a violation of international law.” ’ ’   Protests over the order erupted at John F. Kennedy airport on   Saturday after two Iraqi refugees who had been granted asylum and   were carrying valid visas were detained by border agents and   denied entry. At least seven other travelers were reportedly   detained at the same airport on Saturday, one official . ’ ’  ’ ’   One of the Iraqis, Hameed Khalid Darweesh, was released Saturday   afternoon after two New York lawmakers arrived at the airport and   demanded to see him. ’ ’   Hundreds of protesters descended on the airport’’s Terminal 4,   wielding signs that read, ”No ban, no wall,” and, ”Refugees   welcome,” . ’ ”   It’s unclear how many travelers have been affected by the order   so far, but refugee advocates and lawyers say they have been   receiving reports of immigrants and refugees being detained at   airports across the country. ” ’   “They’re literally pouring in by the minute,” Becca Heller, the   director of the International Refugee Assistance Project, told   The Times. ’