’  ’ ”   Mark Zuckerberg came out against President Trump’s executive   orders on immigration policy  Friday. ” ’   ”Like many of you, I’’m concerned about the impact of the recent   executive orders signed by President Trump,” Zuckerberg said,   referencing the orders Trump signed earlier this week to build a   wall along the U. S.  border and prioritize the   deportation of undocumented immigrants from   sanctuary   cities in the U. S. ’ ’   ”We need to keep this country safe, but we should do that by   focusing on people who actually pose a threat,” the Facebook CEO   continued. ”Expanding the focus of law enforcement beyond people   who are real threats would make all Americans less safe by   diverting resources, while millions of undocumented folks who   don’’t pose a threat will live in fear of deportation.” ’ ”   While he was  during the   presidential campaign, Friday’s post is the first time that   Zuckerberg has publicly addressed the president’s   policies since the inauguration. His comments also come one   day after Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg  Trump’s   executive   order. ” ’   In his post on Friday, Zuckerberg said he remained optimistic   about Trump’’s  to protecting ”Dreamer” immigrants who were   brought into the U. S. at a young age from deportation. ’ ’’ ’   ”I’’m also glad the President believes our country should continue   to benefit from ’’people of great talent coming into the   country,’’” Zuckerberg said. Trump has  that he’’s said   will directly benefit tech companies like Facebook   that already rely on being able to hire skilled workers from   other countries. ’ ’   Zuckerberg has been an immigration reform activist for years,   dating back to his cofounding of the FWD. us lobbying group in   2013. Despite recent speculation that Zuckerberg  the billionaire    ’ ”   Here’s Zuckerberg’s  ” ”     My great grandparents came from Germany, Austria and Poland.     Priscilla’s parents were refugees from China and Vietnam. The     United States is a nation of immigrants, and we should be proud     of that.   ” ”     Like many of you, I’m concerned about the impact of the recent     executive orders signed by President Trump.   ” ”     We need to keep this country safe, but we should do that by     focusing on people who actually pose a threat. Expanding the     focus of law enforcement beyond people who are real threats     would make all Americans less safe by diverting resources,     while millions of undocumented folks who don’t pose a threat     will live in fear of deportation.   ” ”     We should also keep our doors open to refugees and those who     need help. That’s who we are. Had we turned away refugees a few     decades ago, Priscilla’s family wouldn’t be here today.   ” ’     That said, I was glad to hear President Trump say he’’s going to     ”work something out” for Dreamers    immigrants who were     brought to this country at a young age by their parents. Right     now, 750, 000 Dreamers benefit from the Deferred Action for     Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that allows them to live and     work legally in the US. I hope the President and his team keep     these protections in place, and over the next few weeks I’’ll be     working with our team at FWD. us to find ways we can help.   ’ ’     I’’m also glad the President believes our country should     continue to benefit from ”people of great talent coming into     the country.”   ’ ’     These issues are personal for me even beyond my family. A few     years ago, I taught a class at a local middle school where some     of my best students were undocumented. They are our future too.     We are a nation of immigrants, and we all benefit when the best     and brightest from around the world can live, work and     contribute here. I hope we find the courage and compassion to     bring people together and make this world a better place for     everyone.   ’