’  ’ ”   After top Republican lawmakers harshly criticized President   Donald Trump’s executive order temporarily barring people   from seven   nations from entering the US, he fired   back on Sunday in an official statement and in more candid words   on Twitter. ” ’   Sens. John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina   released a  on Sunday calling the ban ”a     wound in the fight against terrorism.” They were just two of the   more prominent lawmakers on both sides of the aisle who have come   out against Trump’’s order, which sparked  across the nation. ’ ’   The president called out McCain and Graham specifically in two   tweets Sunday evening, accusing the veteran senators of ”looking   to start World War III.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe joint statement of former presidential candidates John McCain & Lindsey Graham is wrong   they are sadly weak on immigration. The two. ..’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’t. ..Senators should focus their energies on ISIS, illegal immigration and border security instead of always looking to start World War III. ’t’t’ ’ on Saturday and Sunday   preventing the deportation of affected travelers stuck in   airports across the US, but the   effects and legality of   the executive order remain unclear. ’ ’   In a longer, but still fiery, statement, Trump defended the   temporary ban, insisting it was ”not about religion” but about   ”protecting our own citizens and border.” ’ ’   The statement followed a long day of defense from Trump’’s   advisers, who criticized the Brooklyn judge who issued the stay,   emphasized the ”temporary” aspect of the order, and offered   ” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”America is a proud nation of immigrants and we will continue to   show compassion to those fleeing oppression, but we will do so   while protecting our own citizens and border. America has always   been the land of the free and home of the brave. We will keep it   free and keep it safe, as the media knows, but refuses to say. My   policy is similar to what President Obama did in 2011 when he   banned visas for refugees from Iraq for six months. The seven   countries named in the Executive Order are the same countries   previously identified by the Obama administration as sources of   terror. To be clear, this is not a Muslim ban, as the media is   falsely reporting. This is not about religion  —   this is   about terror and keeping our country safe. There are over 40   different countries worldwide that are majority Muslim that are   not affected by this order. We will again be issuing visas to all   countries once we are sure we have reviewed and implemented the   most secure policies over the next 90 days. I have tremendous   feeling for the people involved in this horrific humanitarian   crisis in Syria. My first priority will always be to protect and   serve our country, but as President I will find ways to help all   those who are suffering.” ’ ’   ”Our government has a responsibility to defend our borders, but   we must do so in a way that makes us safer and upholds all that   is decent and exceptional about our nation. ’ ’   It is clear from the confusion at our airports across the nation   that President Trump’s executive order was not properly vetted.   We are particularly concerned by reports that this order went   into effect with little to no consultation with the Departments   of State, Defense, Justice, and Homeland Security. ’ ’   Such a hasty process risks harmful results. We should not stop     holders from returning to the country they call home.   We should not stop those who have served as interpreters for our   military and diplomats from seeking refuge in the country they   risked their lives to help. And we should not turn our backs on   those refugees who have been shown through extensive vetting to   pose no demonstrable threat to our nation, and who have suffered   unspeakable horrors, most of them women and children. ’ ’   Ultimately, we fear this executive order will become a     wound in the fight against terrorism. At this very   moment, American troops are fighting    with our Iraqi   partners to defeat ISIL. But this executive order bans Iraqi   pilots from coming to military bases in Arizona to fight our   common enemies. Our most important allies in the fight against   ISIL are the vast majority of Muslims who reject its apocalyptic   ideology of hatred. This executive order sends a signal, intended   or not, that America does not want Muslims coming into our   country. That is why we fear this executive order may do more to   help terrorist recruitment than improve our security.” ’