’  ’ ’   With control of the presidency, the House of Representatives, the   Senate, and at least one Supreme Court seat to fill, the GOP will   have the opportunity to make sweeping changes in the next four   years. ’ ”   Since  is part of the Republican Party’s platform,   Americans can expect a   fight will be part of   the agenda. ” ’   On his fourth day in office,  reinstating   a gag order keeping nongovernmental organizations that receive   federal funding from discussing abortion abroad. ’ ’   While Trump once  he has since reversed his position, saying in his   first interview after winning the election that he wants to   appoint ” ” judges, including a highly conservative   nominee to fill the vacant Supreme Court seat, with the goal of   overturning Roe v. Wade. ’ ’   The  decided in 1973, gave women a   constitutional right to safe, legal abortions  —   and the justices   have upheld that precedent for over four decades. ’ ’   Roe would likely fall in one of two ways, according to  a constitutional scholar from Indiana   University and the legal director of  from 1988 to   1993. ’ ’   The most drastic way the court could get rid of Roe would be to   overturn the case. The more likely scenario, however, would see   the court letting Roe stand but incrementally upholding laws that   restrict access, making abortions impossible to get  —   rendering   the procedure virtually illegal over time. ’ ”   States have been trying to pass outright bans for years. They’ve   been most successful at enacting . Some laws require women to have funerals for   aborted fetuses, or require waiting periods between appointments. ” ’  ’ ’ a   expert and professor at Harvard Law   School, said two kinds of laws provide the most likely paths for   SCOTUS to overturn or undermine Roe. ’ ’   The first are known as . They aim to ban abortions when a fetus can   feel pain, which legislators typically claim is after 20 weeks,   though . ’ ”   The Supreme Court has ruled that abortions are legal up to   viability  —   when a fetus can survive on its own outside the womb    —   but has neglected to define exactly when that is, and hasn’t   taken on a   statute, Cohen said. ” ’   The second kind of law is what reproductive rights activists call    or TRAP laws,   that impose strict requirements on abortion clinics and   providers. ’ ”   A TRAP law was at the heart of a major case taken up by the court   this past year, Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt. The law in   question required abortion clinics in Texas to meet  from the exact size of the examination   rooms to admission privileges doctors had to secure for admitting   patients to local hospitals. ” ’ the Supreme Court ruled in a  that the law ”provides few, if any, health benefits   for women, poses a substantial obstacle to women seeking   abortions, and constitutes an ’’undue burden’’ on their   constitutional right to do so.” ’ ’   Presumably, that means the high court has a   majority at the   moment that supports abortion, Cohen said. If it were to switch   course and uphold similar laws over time, the court could chip   away at abortion access in the US. ’ ’   The gradual erosion of Roe v. Wade is much more likely scenario   for a diminishing of abortion access, according to Cohen, because   Chief Justice John Roberts often plays the ”long game.” Roberts   hasn’’t explicitly come out against Roe or abortion (as is   tradition with justices) but he has said  yet  in Supreme Court cases while   on the bench. ’ ’   ”Roberts, in particular, has often preferred the method of ’’death   by 1, 000 cuts’’ to get rid of decisions he does not like  —   narrow   it, make small changes, et cetera. in a series of cases,” Cohen   told Business Insider. ”He is very honorably committed to the   idea of the integrity of the court, and my own sense is he would   not favor a dramatic action that would cause half the country to   lose faith in the court.” ’ ’   The short answer: Abortion rights would be up to the states. ’ ’   If Roe fell,  have laws on the books banning abortion, so the   practice would be illegal there immediately. Other states would   likely act quickly to pass similar ”trigger” laws. ’ ’   As Trump said in his first interview as president, that would   mean women in those states would ”have to go to another state” to   get an abortion. ’ ’ ’ ’   Restrictive abortion policies at the   tend to have a   ” on poor women, immigrant women, women   of color, and women in rural areas,” said  the lead attorney on the Whole Woman’’s Health case and   a senior counsel at the Center for Reproductive Rights. ’ ’   That would likely become even more apparent if Roe fell. ’ ’   ”What we would end up with is a country where there is a   patchwork of rights depending on where you live,” Toti told   Business Insider. ”Your ZIP code will start to determine whether   you have access to safe abortion, and other reproductive health   services, or not. ’ ’   ”As we learned from our recent experience in Texas, while the   very restrictive clinic shut down law was in effect in that   state, not every woman can afford to travel out of state to   access abortion care,” she added. ’ ’  ’ ” coordinated by the University of Texas supports   Toti’s assertion. After Texas’ law went into effect in 2013, the   number of clinics providing abortions in the state dropped in   half, from  as of November 2015  —   increasing the number of   women who lived over 50 miles from a clinic in Texas from 1. 2   million to 4. 2 million. ” ’   Toti said she doesn’’t think Roe is in ”any immediate jeopardy,”   largely because both the Supreme Court and a majority of   Americans support abortion. ’ ’   Pew Research Center polls have found that 59% of US adults today   support the legality of abortion in general and 69% want the   Supreme Court to uphold Roe  —   both numbers that have risen over   time. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump has said he’’ll announce his Supreme Court justice   nomination  and reports indicate he’’s narrowed it down   to  one of whom has called Roe an   ”.” ’ ”   Even once Trump fills the late Justice Antonin Scalia’s seat,   Toti said, the court will likely still have a   majority that   would uphold Roe. ” ’   ”Less than four months ago, a majority of Supreme Court justices   reaffirmed more than four decades of precedent holding that every   woman has a fundamental, constitutional right to access abortion.   We are confident that the court will not back away from that,”   Toti said. ”Regardless of how the current vacancy is filled, that   majority decision stands as controlling precedent.” ’ ”   It will likely be some time before Trump’s nomination can   actively participate in cases. Toti estimated that the lengthy   Senate approval process will sideline the new justice until at   least October 2017. And even if that justice is aggressively     Trump would still need another justice to retire or die   to shift the balance, an unlikely scenario in the next four   years. ” ’   Not everyone is as optimistic as Toti. If Trump is elected for a   second term, the chances of him choosing another justice go up  —     as do the chances of Roe falling. ’ ’   Johnsen, the constitutional law expert, pointed to  who has enacted some of the   strictest antiabortion laws in the country as governor of   Indiana, as evidence of which way the political winds are   blowing. ’ ’   ”I am very pessimistic about it, and that’’s because I’’m thinking   about the range of ways Roe can fall that would not require the   Supreme Court to actually say, ’’We are overruling Roe v. Wade,’’”   Johnsen said. ”We’’ve seen the kinds of laws that would shut   clinics, and ban abortions for reasons, and force women to be   interrogated by their doctors  —   and that all could be upheld   without the Supreme Court actually saying, ’’We’’re overruling Roe   v. Wade. ’’” ’ ’  ’ ’   Advocacy groups are  and they received an  to help them wage   costly court battles across the country. ’ ’   ”We will continue to fight for a country in which all women have   access to safe abortion, contraception, and safe pregnancy care,”   Toti said. ”We haven’’t met that ideal yet. We don’’t have that   situation now. There are women in many parts of the country who   face lots of challenges, but we are going to keep pushing to move   forward and to make things better, and we won’’t allow   backsliding.” ’ ’   Erica Sackin, director of political communications for Planned   Parenthood, told Business Insider that the healthcare provider is   ”absolutely gearing up for a huge fight,” and that the wave of   donations they received underline how many people support   upholding Roe  —   including those who voted for Trump. ’ ’   ”We’’ve seen a number of laws across the country that try to take   away women’’s access to safe, legal abortions. At the heart of it,   these laws are unpopular, and they are dangerous,” Sackin said.   ”For the people who come to Planned Parenthood, for the people   who need to access abortion, this isn’’t about politics. It’’s   about basic healthcare.” ’