’   The recent backlash against Uber has had a positive outcome for   one company: its main competitor, Lyft.  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Lyft has also been trending in Apple’s App Store throughout   Monday and has climbed the top free apps chart to No. 4,   surpassing Uber, which is in 13th place. ” ”   Here’s a look at Lyft’s position in the App Store, as of Monday: ” ’  ’ ’   According to  this is a huge jump over just the   past three days. Lyft ranked No. 39 on the free apps chart, and   by Sunday was up to No. 7. It has continued to climb throughout   the day Monday.  ’ ’   Analyst firm Sensor Tower  ’ ”   Lyft’s sudden rise in popularity comes as Uber’s reputation has   taken a hit. On Sunday, thousands of Uber customers   angrily  after Uber drivers tried   to do business at New York’s JFK airport during a taxi strike. ” ”   The New York Taxi Workers Alliance called for all drivers to   avoid John F. Kennedy International Airport on Saturday to   facilitate  President Donald Trump’s executive order   barring travelers from seven   countries from   entering the US.  ” ’   But m ’ ’   Many people began posting on social media that they were deleting   the app, along with the hashtag ”#deleteUber.” Actress Susan   Sarandon tweeted ”Goodbye @uber. Hello @lyft. #DeleteUber,” an   example that many others seemed to follow, given Lyft’’s   newfound popularity.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tGoodbye . Hello .   ’ ’   On Sunday, Lyft cofounders John Zimmer and Logan Green sent an   email to users pledging a $1 million donation to the ACLU,   the   organization that was able to successfully force a   temporary stay on the immigration ban. ’ ”   It’s worth noting, however, that Lyft’s spike in downloads is not   indicative of customers using the service more than, or instead   of, Uber. And while the recent surge in Lyft’s popularity is a   good sign for the company, it’s not clear if this is a permanent   trend or a temporary response to   sentiment. Uber   remains the most popular   app in the US,   claiming up to  in some US cities   with Lyft making  nationwide.  ” ’The recent backlash against Uber has had a. ..’