’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump selected 10th Circuit Judge Neil Gorsuch   Tuesday evening as his nominee to fill the Supreme Court seat   left vacant for nearly a full year by Justice Antonin Scalia   following his death last February. ’ ’   Trump, who promised along the campaign trail to select a judge   ”in the mold of Scalia,” made the announcement from the East Room   of the White House just after 8 p. m. ’ ’   ”This has been the most transparent and most important Supreme   Court selection process in the history of our country and I   wanted the American people to have a voice in this nomination,”   Trump said. ”Judge Gorsuch has a superb intellect, an   unparalleled legal education, and a commitment to interpreting   the Constitution according to its text.” ’ ’   Gorsuch, from Colorado, graduated from Harvard Law School and   clerked for Supreme Court Justices Byron White and Anthony   Kennedy. Gorsuch was nominated in 2006 to the 10th Circuit US   Court of Appeals by President George W. Bush. He was confirmed by   a voice vote. ’ ”   Like Scalia, Gorsuch is an avowed textualist  —   interpreting   a law according to its plain text over the intent of its writers   or that law’s consequences  —   and originalist, interpreting the   law according to the meaning of the Constitution as it was   written. ” ’’ ’   At just 49 years old, Gorsuch would become the youngest   justice on the Supreme Court, if confirmed by the Senate. ’ ”   Gorsuch is well known for his votes and opinions in favor of   religious liberty. In  he sided with claimants Hobby Lobby   and Little Sisters of the Poor, who argued that their religious   beliefs were violated by the Affordable Care Act’s contraceptive   mandate. ” ’   The government must not force those with ”sincerely held   religious beliefs” to be complicit in ”conduct their religion   teaches to be gravely wrong,” Gorsuch wrote in his opinion. ’ ’   The case went to the Supreme Court in 2014. In a   vote, it   came to the same decision as Gorsuch. ’ ’   In criminal law, too, Gorsuch applies a textualist interpretation   and often sides with defendants over prosecutors in an effort to   avoid criminalizing conduct that could potentially be innocent. ’ ”   In one 2013 case, for instance, Gorsuch upheld a lower court’s   ruling that  Colorado, who used a stun gun on      Ryan Wilson, who died from the incident, had   qualified immunity, . ” ’   According to Gorsuch, all officers were protected under broadly   applied   laws, with the exception of ”the   plainly incompetent or those who knowingly violate the law.” ’ ’   Gorsuch has also been a staunch opponent of what he calls   ”executive overreach,” a position that could appease many   Republicans who criticized the Obama administration’’s use of   executive orders to cut through congressional gridlock, while   also reassuring Democrats worried about the ramifications of   Trump’’s executive orders. ’ ’   Executive bureaucracies,  ”concentrate federal power in a way   that seems more than a little difficult to square with the   Constitution of the framers’’ design.” ’ ’   ”Maybe the time has come to face the behemoth,” he wrote. ’ ’   In keeping with Republican tradition, Gorsuch leans in favor of   state power over federal power  —   an approach that can be   challenging in   cases that frequently revolve around   the power of ”rogue” state laws, Justin Marceau, a University of   Denver law professor, . ’ ’   ”We would see a judge who, while perhaps not as combative in   personal style as Justice Scalia, is perhaps his intellectual   equal,” Marceau said, ”and almost certainly his equal on   conservative jurisprudential approaches to criminal justice and   social justice issues that are bound to keep coming up in the   country.” ’ ”   Gorsuch now faces Senate confirmation, and the possibility of a   Democratic filibuster. That would require a     supermajority, and the Republicans hold 52 seats. Many     groups and Democratic politicians released   statements following Trump’s announcement, expressing concern   over Gorsuch’s nomination and hinting at an upcoming confirmation   battle. ” ’   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer    saying that the Senate must ”insist upon  ” for any   nominee, ”a bar that was met by each of President Obama’s   nominees.” ’ ’   ”The burden is on Judge Neil Gorsuch to prove himself to be   within the legal mainstream and, in this new era, willing to   vigorously defend the Constitution from abuses of the executive   branch and protect the constitutionally enshrined rights of all   Americans,” he said. Given his record, I have very serious doubts   about Judge Gorsuch’s ability to meet this standard.” ’ ’   ”Judge Gorsuch has repeatedly sided with corporations over   working people, demonstrated a hostility toward women’s rights,   and most troubling, hewed to an ideological approach to   jurisprudence that makes me skeptical that he can be a strong,   independent justice on the court,” he continued. ”Make no   mistake, Senate Democrats will not simply allow but require an   exhaustive, robust, and comprehensive debate on Judge Gorsuch’s   fitness to be a Supreme Court justice.” ’ ’   Schumer’’s counterpart, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell,   has the ”nuclear” option at his disposal  —   rewriting the Senate   rules by simple majority to eliminate the filibuster for Supreme   Court nominations. But, McConnell is known to disdain the idea of   blowing up the rules. He has stated in the days leading up   to Trump’’s decision that he believed 60 votes would be   attainable. ’ ’   In a statement following Gorsuch’’s nomination, McConnell, who led   the blockade against Judge Merrick Garland, President Barack   Obama’’s nominee to fill the vacant seat last year, praised Trump   for making an ”outstanding decision.” ’ ’   He also called for Gorsuch to receive ”fair consideration.” ’ ’   ”When the Senate previously confirmed him to the appellate court,   the bipartisan support in the Senate was so overwhelming, a roll   call vote was not even required,” McConnell said. ”I hope members   of the Senate will again show him fair consideration and respect   the result of the recent election with an    vote on his   nomination, just like the Senate treated the four     nominees of Presidents [Bill] Clinton and Obama. ” ’ ’Michelle Mark contributed to this report.  ’