’  ’ ’   With President Donald Trump set to make his Supreme Court   selection Tuesday night, an   brawl is potentially on the   precipice of breaking out in the Senate. ’ ’   And it could result in the ”nuclear” option being implemented. ’ ”   Many Senate Democrats are still enraged at the nearly     blockade put forth by their Republican counterparts, stunting   President Barack Obama’s nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to   fill the seat vacated by the late Justice Antonin Scalia. ” ’   And they want retribution, promising to block any selection from   Trump. ’ ”   If Democrats decide to filibuster Trump’s choice, the nominee   would need 60 votes to pass. Republicans control 52 seats. ” ’’ ’   Sen. Jeff Merkley, an Oregon Democrat,  on Monday that he would   filibuster any choice that was not Garland. ’ ’   ”This is a stolen seat,” he said. ”This is the first time a   Senate majority has stolen a seat. We will use every lever in our   power to stop this.” ’ ’   And although Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat,    on Tuesday he would consider a   Trump nominee ”based on the merits,” he later opened the door to   years of obstruction. ’ ’   ”One of the unfortunate consequences of the Garland   obstructionism has been to show that, in fact, the Supreme Court   can function with eight members,” he said. ’ ’   Should Democrats decide to go forth with filibustering the   selection  —   which is reportedly   —   Senate   Majority Leader Mitch McConnell could enact that ”nuclear”   option, killing the filibuster for Supreme Court nominees. ’ ’   The Senate rules could be changed by simple majority, eliminating   the filibuster for Supreme Court nominees. That option was last   invoked by former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to assist in   the confirmation of Obama’’s judicial and executive nominees. But,   McConnell has not expressed disdain for applying the ”nuclear”   option. ’ ’   Speaking to Politico Friday, McConnell said the ”practice was   that you didn’t do it even though the tool is in the toolbox.” ’ ’   ”There are a lot of tools in there,” he said. ”Until Bush 43, the   filibuster tool was always there. But it wasn’t done.” ”Two good   examples: There was no filibuster against [Robert] Bork and, of   course, the most controversial Supreme Court nomination ever was   Clarence Thomas. Democrats were in the majority; he was approved    .” ’ ’   And the Kentucky Republican expressed total confidence the   nominee would get through the process. ’ ’   ”We’re going to get this nominee confirmed,” he said. ”I hope he   or she will be confirmed based upon the completely outstanding   credentials that we’re going to see.” ’