’   The office of Canada’’s Prime Minister has requested that Fox   News retract or update what it called a ”false and misleading”   tweet about the nationality of the suspect in the deadly  that left six dead on Sunday. ’ ’   Fox News’’    said the suspect was ”of Moroccan origin,” information that was   later proven false by authorities but not corrected by the   outlet on Twitter. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSuspect in Quebec mosque terror attack was of Moroccan origin, reports show   ’ ’   ”Sadly, this misleading information has been left to stand on the   Fox News Channel’’s twitter account and continued to circulate   online even now,” Kate Purchase, communications director for   Prime Minister Justin Trudeau,  to Fox   News. ’ ’   ”These tweets by Fox News dishonour the memory of the six victims   and their families by spreading misinformation, playing identity   politics, and perpetuating fear and division within our   communities,” she added. ’ ’   The email requested that Fox News either retract or update their   tweet ”to reflect the suspect’’s actual identity.” ’ ’   Initially,  were named by Quebec police: Alexandre   Bissonnette and Mohamed Khadir. Authorities later clarified that   Khadir, also identified in some reports as Mohammed Belhkadir,   was a witness to the attack who had called 911  —   not a suspect   charged in the attack. ’ ’   But in its subsequent tweets, Fox News did not clarify the   identity of the real suspect, Bissonnette, who is a white     male. ’ ’   Bissonnette, a    university student, has since been   charged with six counts of   murder and five counts of   attempted murder while using a restricted firearm. ’ ’   Before the shooting, which Canadian authorities have referred   to a terrorist attack, Bissonnette had expressed extremist,   nationalist, and   views both online and to his   friends, . ’ ”   A spokesperson for Fox News did not immediately respond to   Business Insider’s request for comment. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tEarlier today I sent an email to  about their misleading tweet yesterday. We will continue to stand up for our citizens ( )  ’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t( )  ’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t( )  ’ ’     ’