’  ’ ”   In the past 41 years, no American has been killed on US soil by a   terrorist from any of the seven countries included in President   Donald Trump’s controversial  on immigration. That’s one of the findings of   a comprehensive look at foreign terror on US soil  by Alex Nowrasteh of the libertarian  ” ’   Combining data from multiple sources, Nowrasteh found that the   actual risk to Americans has been infinitesimal, and   some of the terrorists that have been caught on US soil come   from surprising places, like Japan.  ’ ’   The table below lists the countries of origin of 154   terrorists found on US soil since January 1, 1975. Many of the   terrorists were either caught before they committed an act, or   failed to kill any Americans in the process.  ’ ’   It also lists the number of Americans murdered by terrorists from   each country. The large numbers from Saudi Arabia, the United   Arab Emirates, Egypt and Lebanon are largely from the September   11 attacks.  ’ ”   First, the big picture. According to Nowrasteh’s  over the last 41 years (Jan 1975   Dec 2015) and   including the   attacks:  ” ’   And some other findings:  ’ ”   Of course, this data is  . Proponents of the ban    that the seven countries included in the order have   a history of violence and unstable leadership, so they could   still pose risks. The CATO study also doesn’t include terrorism   in other countries where Americans were victims. ” ’   Nowrasteh kept it focused on incidents on US soil as context   for immigration policy.  ’ ’   He also applied a wide definition of terrorist. Included in the   154 terrorists is a Japanese man arrested at a New Jersey rest   stop in 1986 in possession of pipe bombs. Another was a Cuban who   assassinated a Chilean dissident on US soil in 1976.  ’ ’   ”If I was going to make an error, I wanted to err on the side of   counting too many people,” Nowrasteh said.  ’ ’   It was the San Bernardino  in December 2015 that first got Nowrasteh thinking   about the actual likelihood of Americans falling victims to   terrorism, he said.  ’ ’   Nowrasteh told Business Insider that going into the research   he was more of a hawk than his colleagues. ”  greatly affected   me. I was 17. I don’’t have any good opinions about that part of   the world,” he said, referring to the Middle East. ’ ’   But the data completely changed his views. ”What shocked me is   how small of a threat it really is to American life. I really   changed my entire opinion based on this research,” he said. ’ ’   Now he believes the US should not block people from the Middle   East from entering the US as refugees. ”We should not have nearly   the security we have,” he said. ”Terrorism is a much more minor   threat than people realize. It is by no means an existential   threat.”  ’ ’  ’