’  ’ ”   Former CIA director and retired Gen. David Petraeus warned   Congress on Wednesday that the US can’t take the current   international order for granted. ” ’   He told the House Armed Services Committee that the     War II world order is now facing an ”unprecedented threat from   multiple directions.” ’ ’   ”Americans should not take the current international order for   granted,” Petraeus said. ”It did not will itself into existence.   We created it. Likewise, it is not naturally  . We   have sustained it. If we stop doing so, it will fray and,   eventually, collapse.” ’ ”   The retired   general, who commanded forces in Iraq and   headed the CIA before he resigned for sharing classified   information with his biographer and former mistress, was one   of President Donald Trump’s possible picks for secretary of   state. ” ’   During his testimony to the House committee, he warned against   isolationism and protectionism, which the new administration has   promoted, advocating instead for the promotion of democracy   around the world that the US has engaged in  . ’ ’   ”To keep the peace, we led an effort to establish a system of   global alliances and security commitments underwritten by US   military power and the deployment of our forces to bases in   Europe and Asia,” Petraeus said. ’ ’   ”To create a foundation for prosperity, we put in place an open,   free, and   economic order intended to safeguard   against the spiral of protectionism that produced the   impoverishment and radicalization of the 1930s. And to protect   freedom here at home, we adopted a foreign policy that sought to   protect and, where possible, promote freedom abroad along with   human rights and rule of law.” ’ ’   Petraeus said that while this system has been imperfect, it has   largely been successful. He named familiar adversaries like   Russia, China, Iran, and Islamic extremists, but said the   most harmful threat is actually domestic. ’ ’   ”The world order has also been undermined by something perhaps   even more pernicious  —   a loss of   resolve,   and strategic clarity on America’’s part about our vital interest   in preserving and protecting the system we sacrificed so much to   bring into being and have sacrificed so much to preserve,” he   said. ’ ”   Petraeus also warned about how the collapse of institutions like   the NATO alliance and the European Union could play into Russian   President Vladimir Putin’s hand. ” ’   ”President Putin, for instance, understands that, while   conventional aggression may occasionally enable Russia to grab a   bit of land on its periphery, the real center of gravity is the   political will of major democratic powers to defend     institutions like NATO and the EU,” he said. ”That is why Russia   is tenaciously working to sow doubt about the legitimacy of these   institutions and our entire democratic way of life.” ’ ’   Trump  by repeating his assertions that NATO is   ”obsolete” and remarking that the EU’’s future didn’’t matter much   to the US. ’ ’  ’ ’   Petraeus also subtly rebuked the direction the Trump   administration has taken on the fight against Islamic extremism,   with which Petraeus has much experience. ’ ’   Trump signed an executive order recently temporarily barring   immigrants from seven   countries that the Obama   administration flagged as ”countries of particular concern” from   entering the US. The order applies to citizens from   Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. ’ ’   Terrorism experts have argued that this will feed into the   narratives of terrorist groups that claim the US is against Islam   while doing little to prevent terrorist attacks inside the   country.  ’ ’   ”Islamic extremists want to portray this fight as a clash of   civilizations, with America at war against Islam,” he said. ”We   must not let them do that; indeed, we must be very sensitive to   actions that might give them ammunition to use in such an   effort.” ’ ’   Petraeus urged the US to align itself with the Muslim community   rather than against it. ’ ’   ”The most important ally in this war is the overwhelming majority   of Muslims who reject Al Qaeda, Daesh [ISIS] and their fanatical,   barbaric worldview,” he said. ”Indeed, it is millions of Muslims   who are fighting and dying in the greatest numbers on the   frontlines of this war.” ’ ’   He noted Arab and Kurdish soldiers who are fighting ISIS, Gulf   Arab fighters who are pushing back Al Qaeda in Yemen, Afghans who   are fighting a resurgent Taliban in their country, and Somali   forces that are fighting terrorist elements there. ’ ”   Petraeus’ warnings matched those given by other experts,   former government officials, and world leaders. ” ’   Last month, Vice President Joe Biden  noting   that the EU has been an ”indispensable partner of the United   States.” ’ ’   ”Defending the liberal international order requires that we   resist the forces of European disintegration and maintain our   longstanding insistence on a Europe whole, free, and at peace,”   he said. ’ ”   European leaders  about Trump’s views on NATO and   the EU. ” ’   And earlier this week, the president of the European Council of   the EU  that Trump could pose a threat to the stability of the   bloc. ’ ’Former CIA director and retired Gen. David. ..’