’  ’ ’   During a phone call with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto on   Friday, US President Donald Trump disparaged Mexico and   threatened to use military force against the drug trade,   according to Dolia Estevez, a journalist based in Washington, DC. ’ ’   In an  with the Mexican news outlet   Aristegui Noticias, Estevez, who cited sources on both sides of   the call, said, ”It was a very offensive conversation where Trump   humiliated Peña Nieto.” ’ ’   Estevez said that while both the White House and the Mexican   president have released information about the call, both sides   characterized it as a ”” conversation and neither disclosed   what was said. ’ ’   Estevez said she ”obtained confidential information”   corroborating the content of the discussion. ’ ’   ”I don’’t need the Mexicans. I don’’t need Mexico,” Trump  the Mexican president. ”We   are going to build the wall and you all are going to pay for it,   like it or not.” ’ ’   Trump hinted that the US would force Mexico to fund the wall with   a 10% tax on Mexican exports ”and of 35% on those exports that   hurt Mexico the most,” Estevez  in Proyecto Puente. ’ ’   Before the call, White House press secretary Sean Spicer  a tax on imports   from Mexico to pay for the wall. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”He even complained of the bad role the [Mexican] army is playing   in the fight against narco trafficking,” Estevez, who  and is close to the Mexican   journalist and anchorwoman Carmen Aristegui, said during an    with Aristegui’’s eponymous news   outlet. ’ ’   Trump ”even suggested to [Peña Nieto] that if they are incapable   of combatting [narco trafficking] he may have to send troops to   assume this task,” she said. ’ ’   The US president ”said he would not permit the drugs coming from   Mexico to continue massacring our cities,” Estevez added. She   said Trump went so far as to say, ”I really didn’’t want to go to   Mexico last August,” referring to  to the Mexican capital last   year. ’ ’   Peña Nieto was accompanied on the call by people from his   country’’s foreign ministry, while Trump was joined by ”,” likely meaning senior   adviser Jared Kushner, and chief strategist Steven Bannon.   Kushner is  to Mexican Foreign Minister   Luis Videgaray, and they were seen as the likely   for   the two governments. ’ ’   ”Before this unusual onslaught, Peña was not firm,” Estevez said.   ”He was stammering.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Despite this confrontation, the Mexican government still believes   in negotiating with the Trump administration, Estevez said. ’ ’   She also  that Videgaray met with US officials   on Tuesday in Tapachula, near the   border. ’ ” the Mexican foreign minister met with    a member of Trump’s National   Security Council handling the Western Hemisphere; Adm. Kurt Tidd,   commander of US Southern Command; and Roberta Jacobson, the US   ambassador to Mexico. The Mexican Foreign Ministry has made no   mention of the encounter. ” ’   Estevez  was to address Mexican   cooperation in deterring the flow of Central American migrants   through Mexico to the US. However, neither US nor Mexican   officials contacted by Estevez would confirm the meeting. ’ ’During a phone call with Mexican President. ..’