’  ’ ”   On Wednesday President Donald Trump’s national security adviser   former general Mike Flynn made a cameo at the White House’s press   briefing to issue a stern rebuke of Iran. ” ’   ”Recent Iranian actions involving a provocative ballistic missile   launch and an attack against a Saudi naval vessel conducted by     Houthi militants underscore what should have been   clear to the international community all along about Iran’’s   destabilizing behavior across the entire Middle East,” said   Flynn, referring to Monday’’s Houthi attack that . ’ ’   Saudi Arabia leads a military coalition of Gulf States involved   in bombing   Houthi rebels in Yemen. While the   Saudis support the internationally recognized government of   Yemen, they  for their massive   air campaign in Yemen. ’ ”   Flynn went on to say that Iran had violated the UN Security   Council Resolution 2231, which prohibits Iran from designing   missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons. Meanwhile, an EU   spokesman  at the UN Security Council on   Tuesday said that Iran’s test did not violate the   resolution.  ” ” that   Iran’s missile launches certainly violate the spirit of the   resolution, but the language of the resolution remains ambiguous   on missile testing. ” ’   The fact that no definite criteria exist for differentiating   conventional ballistic missiles from   ones further   muddles the issue of whether or not Iran violated the resolution. ’ ’   Flynn then pointed to the  at sea where Iranian   naval vessels have harassed US ships.   Houthi   militants in Yemen have also  from the US and Saudi Arabia.    ”In these and other similar activities, Iran continues to   threaten US friends and allies in the region,” said Flynn. ’ ’   Flynn criticized the Obama administration’’s handling of Iran,   saying that Trump found Obama’’s moves ”weak and ineffective.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Flynn came to a forceful yet vague conclusion: ”As of today, we   are officially putting Iran on notice. ” ’ ”   Flynn’s comments echo what Fordham University maritime law   professor and former US Navy Commander Lawrence Brennan told   Business Insider on Monday. Essentially, the Houthi attack on a   Saudi ship using suicide boats may change the calculus for the US   Navy operating in the region. ” ’   ”This attack is likely to impact US naval operations and rules of   engagement (ROE) in nearby waters,” said Brennan, who pointed out   that Iranian ships frequently harass and sail very closely to US   Navy ships. ’ ’   Brennan suggested that in light of the recent suicide boat   attacks, the US Navy should now consider shooting Iranian or   hostile vessels that get too close. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The overarching duty of   mandates revision of the   ROE to provide a sufficient ’’bubble’’ to prevent the risk of a   suicide attack, particularly from swarming boats,” said Brennan   in an email to Business Insider. ’ ”   This suggestion fits in line with Trump’s expressed intention to   deal with Iran more forcefully. ” ’   ”With Iran,” Trump  ”when they   circle our beautiful destroyers with their little boats, and they   make gestures at our people that they shouldn’’t be allowed to   make, they will be shot out of the water.” ’ ”On Wednesday President Donald Trump’s national. ..”