’  ’ ”   The US ambassador to the United Nations on Thursday delivered the   Trump administration’s strongest words toward Russia since Trump   took office. ” ’   UN ambassador Nikki Haley declared that existing US sanctions   would stay in place against Russia stemming from its annexation   of the peninsula of Crimea from Ukraine, amid renewed fighting in   the eastern part of the country this week. ’ ’   ”I consider it unconscionable that the occasion of my first   appearance here is one in which I must condemn the aggressive   actions of Russia,” Haley said Thursday. ”The dire situation in   eastern Ukraine is one that demands clear and strong condemnation   of Russian actions.” ’ ”   Russia ushered in a takeover of Crimea in March 2014, after   Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich was booted weeks earlier.   Russia’s annexation has been condemned globally, and the US and   Europe issued a series of sanctions stemming from Russia’s   incursions into the country. ” ’   Less than three years later, fighting has ramped up again,    with deadly fighting   between government forces and   separatists reported   up and down the   front line. ’ ’   ”The sudden increase in fighting in Ukraine has trapped thousands   of civilians and destroyed vital infrastructure, and the crisis   is spreading, endangering many thousands more,” Haley said. ’ ’  ’ ’   She continued: ”The United States continues to condemn and calls   for an immediate end to the Russian occupation of Crimea. Crimea   is a part of Ukraine. Our   sanctions will remain in   place until Russia returns control over the peninsula to   Ukraine.” ’ ’ ’ ’BREAKING: US Amb. to UN Haley: ”I must condemn the aggressive actions of Russia” in eastern Ukraine. ’ ’   Trump has, to the dismay of US Republican and Democratic leaders,   been sympathetic toward Putin during and after the presidential   election. Members of his Cabinet, including National Security   Adviser Michael Flynn, have similarly expressed an affinity for   warmer relations with Russia. ’ ’   Former President Barack Obama placed additional sanctions on   Russia for cyberattacks aimed at disrupting the US election.   Before his inauguration, Trump  if Moscow ”is   really helping us.” ’ ’   After a senior adviser to the president  Republican Sen. John McCain    to take steps to prevent the Trump administration   from letting Russia off the hook. ’ ’The US ambassador to the United Nations on. ..’