’  ’ ”   President Trump’s adviser, Steve Bannon, is on the cover of this   week’s  and in the piece it is revealed that Bannon   deeply believes in a theory about America’s future laid out in a   book called  ” ’   This fact should concern every American. ’ ’   In the book, authors William Strauss and Neil Howe theorize that   the history of a people moves in    year cycles called   ”saecula.” The idea goes back to the ancient Greeks, who believed   that at a given saeculum’’s end, there would come ”ekpyrosis,” a   cataclysmic event that destroys the old order and brings in a new   one in a trial of fire. ’ ’   This era of change is known as the Fourth Turning, and Bannon,   like Strauss and Howe, believes we are in the midst of one right   now. ’ ’   According to the book, the last two Fourth Turnings that America   experienced were the Civil War and the Reconstruction, and then   the Great Depression and World War II. Before that, it was the   Revolutionary War. ’ ”   All these were marked by periods of dread and decay in which the   American people were forced to unite to rebuild a new future, but   only after a massive conflict in which many lives were lost. It   all starts with a catalyst event, then there’s a period of   regeneracy, after that there is a defining climax in which a war   for the old order is fought, and then finally there is a   resolution in which a new world order is stabilized. ” ”   This is where Bannon’s obsession with this book should cause   concern. He believes that, for the new world order to rise, there   must be a massive reckoning. That we will soon reach our climax   conflict. In the White House, he has shown that he is willing to   advise Trump to enact policies that will disrupt our current   order to bring about what he perceives as a necessary new one. He   encourages breaking down political and economic alliances and   turning away from traditional American principles to cause chaos. ” ’   In that way, Bannon seems to be trying to bring about the Fourth   Turning.  ’ ’   Bannon has never been secretive about his desire to use Trump to   bring about his vision of America.  last summer that Trump was a ”blunt   instrument for us . .. I don’t know whether he really gets it or   not.” ’ ”   Perhaps not, but putting a Fourth Turning lens on Trump’s   policies certainly give them a great deal of context. Bannon   believes that the catalyst for the Fourth Turning has already   happened: the financial crisis. ” ’   So now we are in the regeneracy. Howe and Strauss describe this   period as one of isolationism, one of infrastructure building and   of strong, centralized government power, and a reimagination of   the economy.  ’ ”   Of course it’s important not to lose sight of the end here.   Bannon believes in authoritarian politics as preparation for a   massive conflict between East and West, whether East means the   Middle East or China. ” ’  ’ ’   Over the years, Bannon has unsuccessfully tried to pressure   historians such as David Kaiser, now at MIT, to say the same   thing. ’ ’  ’ ’   Ultimately, the danger of writing about the past at the same time   one writes about the future is that it can be hard for an author   to separate the two. The steps and missteps of the past seem so   easily repeatable that the future seems to march in lockstep. But   this is not what history has shown us. The catastrophes of every   era have always materialized in their own unique ways. ’ ’   It is here where Strauss and Howe fail in their work, and here   where Bannon gets caught in their failure. The authors mention in   passing that the event that brings us into a crisis could be ”as   ominous as a financial crisis or as ordinary as a national   election.” ’ ’   This makes sense. The Fourth Turning of the Civil War and   Reconstruction played out differently than the Fourth Turning   afterward, the Depression and World War II. ’ ’   But Strauss and Howe fail to recognize that difference in their   description of the Fourth Turning to come. They forget that no   two Turnings are alike; instead, they get trapped thinking that   the last catalyst  —   the Great Depression, a financial crisis  —     was the next one as well, and Bannon does too. ’ ’   This is why he believes that the Great Financial Crisis of 2008   was the catalyst of our crisis, just as the Great Depression was   the catalyst in the previous saeculum. But the two are not   comparable. Unemployment in the US never reached 20% as it did   then; it hit 10% in October 2009. In 2008 the government acted   fast to prevent a full global meltdown, and it did not allow the   situation to deteriorate the way President Herbert Hoover and his   administration did for two years. ’ ’   Instead of all of America suffering as one, what the financial   crisis brought on was an exacerbation of the inequality growing   in the world for the 40 years before it. ’ ’   So when President Franklin Roosevelt described a country laid   waste by the Great Depression in his inaugural address in 1933,   he was describing a picture that all Americans were seeing. On   the other hand Trump, in his inaugural, described a dark   ”American carnage” that many did not recognize. That lack of   recognition marked our deep division as a country. ’ ’  ’ ’   So perhaps there is a Fourth Turning to come, but Bannon is not   an architect of its initiation. According to Howe and Strauss,   unity is the defining feature of the regeneracy. It is what   allows leaders during a crisis to become ”authoritarian, severe,   unyielding” in commanding resources in order to rebuild society. ’ ’   This is what allowed FDR to command the full force of government   to put people back to work. But unity is less apparent in   American society than it has been in years. Quite the contrary,   our society is showing division as never before. ’ ’   The stars of the ”Fourth Turning” are baby boomers and   millennials. Boomers are the ideologues who lead our country into   conflict through folly; millennials are cast as the young heroes   that bring them out of it. ’ ’   Once the catalyst event takes place, Strauss and Howe describe a   situation in which America coalesces under one leader  —   a boomer   ”Gray Warrior”  —   who will ”urgently resist the idea that a second   consecutive generation might be denied the American Dream. No   matter how shattered the economy . .. ” ’ ’  ’ ”   If Bannon believes that he is working for this Gray Warrior, then   he’s missing a very important point: Millennials are the ones who   lead the way forward out of crisis in this story, but considering   the needs of the young has never had any place under Trumpism.   Trump’s words appealed most to older generations who felt like   something had been taken away from them, not to younger   generations who felt like they were never given a chance at the   American Dream in the first place. ” ’   The majority of young people who voted in  and even more millennials   chose to stay home. That is, in part, because Trump never offered   young people anything. I n July, at the Republican National   Convention, the national head of the young Republicans, Alexandra   Smith, . ’ ’   ”For too long Republicans haven’’t been making their case to   millennials,” Smith said, her saccharine tone smoothing over the   severity of the situation. ”There’’s just too much old and not   enough grand in the way we express our party’’s value to the next   generation of voters.” ’ ’   ”The Fourth Turning” envisioned by Howe and Strauss requires a   return to an   set of values, but millennials and the   GOP (or Bannon for that matter) couldn’’t be farther away from one   another. For one, millennials are the most diverse group in US   history (43% of them are nonwhite). Most do not share Bannon’’s   vision for ethnic conflict. ’ ’   ”The Fourth Turning” is the story of our country unifying against   internal struggles and an outside threat. The authors describe it   as the natural course of history, as something that just falls   into place. Instead, what we are seeing, with Trump’’s travel ban   and his threats against Mexico and China, is the creation of   enemies, enemies many Americans don’’t want to have. ’ ’   Instead of uniting us, Bannon’’s belief in ”The Fourth Turning” is   dividing us. This is dangerous, uncharted territory. What comes   next is, as always, unwritten. ’ ”President Trump’s adviser, Steve Bannon, is on. ..”