’  ’ ’   The SEAL Team 6 raid in Yemen that resulted in the death of Chief   Special Warfare Operator William ”Ryan” Owens was declared a   success by President Donald Trump, who praised Owens and his   fellow commandos, three of whom were wounded, for ”killing 14   [Qaeda] members” and ”capturing important intelligence that will   assist the US in preventing terrorism.” ’ ”   But as more details of the weekend covert counterterrorism   operation emerge, it’s evident that the mission didn’t go   according to plan. ” ’   US Central Command has now acknowledged that the raid resulted in   civilian casualties, saying in a statement that an investigating   team had ”concluded regrettably that civilian noncombatants were   likely killed” during the raid, which culminated in a nearly   hourlong firefight. Central Command also conceded that children   may have been among the dead. ’ ’   Reports of civilian casualties first came from medics at the   scene who claimed that 30 people, including 10 women and   children, had been killed in the battle. Pentagon spokesman Capt.   Jeff Davis told reporters that both women and men were firing at   US forces. ’ ’   Three unnamed US military officials told  that the battle, which   one described as a ”brutal firefight,” resulted in the deaths of   at least 15 Yemeni women and children, and that one of them was   indeed the    daughter of Anwar   an American   citizen who was the target of a US drone strike in 2011. ’ ’   The girl’’s death, not yet confirmed by Central Command, was first   announced by members of her family. ”She was hit in the neck with   a bullet and suffered for two hours,” her grandfather, Nasser     told Reuters. ’ ”   Nasser   said in an interview with The Guardian that he   believed his granddaughter’s death was not intentional. ” ’  ’ ’   The military officials also told Reuters that Trump had ”approved   his first covert counterterrorism operation without sufficient   intelligence, ground support, or adequate backup preparations,”   which resulted in the SEAL team being ordered to advance on a   Qaeda compound fortified with landmines, snipers, and a   ”   contingent of heavily armed Islamist   extremists.” ’ ’   The New York Times described a similar scenario but in more   detail. Through a ”communications intercept,” The Times said,   ”the commandos knew that the mission had been somehow   compromised.”  the   Qaeda militants had been ”somehow tipped off to the stealthy   advance toward the village  —   perhaps by the whine of American   drones that local tribal leaders said were flying lower and   louder than usual.” ’ ’   But the SEALs, joined by elite forces from the United Arab   Emirates, pressed on toward their objective  —   the Yemeni village   of Yaklaa, a stronghold of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, or   AQAP. Once there, they were rebuffed by what  describes   as an ”intense counterattack,” and a pitched gunbattle ensued.   The SEALs were reinforced by helicopter gunships and jets. ’ ’   An elite Special Operations air regiment was eventually deployed   to pull the team out, but the extraction was stalled when one of   its   Ospreys lost power and hit the ground hard enough to   wound two service members and disable the aircraft, which was   subsequently destroyed by a US airstrike. ’ ’   The operation was the first   ground raid carried out in   Yemen since 2014, and Owens is the first American service member   to die on the ground there since the country was plunged into a   bloody civil war between rebel factions and government forces. ’ ’  ’ ’   As a result of the chaos, parts of Yemen have become almost   impenetrable sanctuaries for terrorist groups like ISIS and AQAP,   which has been involved in multiple plots to attack US targets   outside Yemen. ’ ’ the group was complicit in both the 2013   Boston Marathon bombing and the 2015 Charlie Hebdo massacre.   Abdularoof   a senior AQAP leader and the      of Anwar   was killed in the raid, Al Qaeda said. ’ ’   The planning phase of the operation began months ago, but   President Barack Obama held off approving the raid before his   January 20 departure. Trump approved the raid soon after taking   office, signaling that he planned to follow through with his   campaign promise to intensify the fight against global terrorism. ’ ”   The new president spoke with Owens’ family to offer his   condolences, and he paid an unexpected visit to Dover Air Force   Base in Delaware to receive the fallen commando’s remains. His   administration maintains that the mission was a success. ” ’   White House spokesman Sean Spicer, who is also a US Navy Reserve   public affairs officer, told Reuters: ”Knowing that we killed an   estimated 14 AQAP members and that we gathered an unbelievable   amount of intelligence that will prevent the potential deaths or   attacks on American soil  —   is something that I think most service   members understand, that that’’s why they joined the service.” ’ ’The SEAL Team 6 raid in Yemen that resulted in. ..’