’  ’ ”   SEATTLE (AP)  —   A US judge on Friday imposed a nationwide hold on   President Donald Trump’s ban on travelers and immigrants from   seven predominantly Muslim countries, siding with two states that   had challenged the executive order that has launched legal   battles across the country ” ”   US District Judge James Robart in  ruled that   Washington state and Minnesota had standing to challenge Trump’s   order, which government lawyers disputed, and said they showed   their case was likely to succeed. About 60, 000 people from the   affected countries had their visas cancelled. ” ’   ”The state has met its burden in demonstrating immediate and   irreparable injury,” Robart said. ”This TRO (temporary   restraining order) is granted on a nationwide basis . ..” ’ ”   It wasn’t immediately clear what happens next for people who had   waited years to receive visas to come to America. ” ’   White House spokesman Sean Spicer released a statement late   Friday saying they ”will file an emergency stay of this   outrageous order and defend the executive order of the President,   which we believe is lawful and appropriate.” Soon after, the   White House sent out a new statement that removed the word   ”outrageous.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWe must keep ”evil” out of our country! ’t’t’ ’    ”The president’’s order is intended to protect the homeland   and he has the constitutional authority and responsibility to   protect the American people,” the statement said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s order last week sparked protests nationwide and confusion   at airports as some travelers were detained. The White House has   argued that it will make the country safer. ” ’   Washington became the first state to sue over the order that   temporarily bans travel for people from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan,   Somalia, Libya and Yemen and suspends the US refugee program. ’ ’   State Attorney General Bob Ferguson said the travel ban   significantly harms residents and effectively mandates   discrimination. Minnesota joined the lawsuit two days later. ’ ’   After the ruling, Ferguson said people from the affected   countries can now apply for entry to the US ’ ’   ”Judge Robart’’s decision, effective immediately . .. puts a halt   to President Trump’’s unconstitutional and unlawful executive   order,” Ferguson said. ”The law is a powerful thing  —   it has the   ability to hold everybody accountable to it, and that includes   the president of the United States.” ’ ”   Gillian M. Christensen, a spokeswoman for the Department of   Homeland Security, said the agency doesn’t comment on pending   litigation. The judge’s ruling could be appealed the 9th US   Circuit Court of Appeals. ” ’  ’ ’   The judge’’s written order, released late Friday, said it’’s not   the court’’s job to ”create policy or judge the wisdom of any   particular policy promoted by the other two branches” of   government. ’ ’   The court’’s job ”is limited to ensuring that the actions taken by   the other two branches comport with our country’’s laws.” ’ ’   Robart ordered federal defendants ”and their respective officers,   agents, servants, employees, attorneys and persons acting in   concert or participation with them are hereby enjoined and   restrained from” enforcing the executive order. ’ ’   A State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity   because the matter is under litigation, said Friday: ”We are   working closely with the Department of Homeland Security and our   legal teams to determine how this affects our operations. We will   announce any changes affecting travelers to the United States as   soon as that information is available. ?” ’ ’   Federal attorneys had argued that Congress gave the president   authority to make decisions on national security and immigrant   entry. ’ ”   The two states won a temporary restraining order while the court   considers the lawsuit, which aims to permanently block Trump’s   order. Court challenges have been filed nationwide from states   and advocacy groups. ” ”   In court, Washington Solicitor General Noah Purcell said the   focus of the state’s legal challenge was the way the president’s   order targeted Islam. ” ’   Trump has called for a ban on Muslims entering the country, and   the travel ban was an effort to make good on that campaign   promise, Purcell told the judge. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Do you see a distinction between campaign statements and the   executive order,” Robart asked. ”I think it’’s a bit of a reach to   say the president is   based on what he said in New   Hampshire in June.” ’ ’   Purcell said there was an ”overwhelming amount of evidence” to   show that the order was directed at the Muslim religion, which is   unconstitutional. ’ ”   When the judge questioned the federal government’s lawyer,   Michelle Bennett, he repeatedly questioned the rationale behind   the order. ” ”   Robart, who was appointed the federal bench by President George   W. Bush, asked if there had been any terrorist attacks by people   from the seven counties listed in Trump’s order since  .   Bennett said she didn’t know. ” ’   ”The answer is none,” Robart said. ”You’’re here arguing we have   to protect from these individuals from these countries, and   there’’s no support for that.” ’ ”   Bennett argued that the states can’t sue on behalf of citizens   and the states have failed to show the order is causing   irreparable harm. ” ’   Robart disagreed. ’ ’   Up to 60, 000 foreigners from the seven   countries   had their visas canceled because of the executive order, the   State Department said Friday. ’ ’   That figure contradicts a statement from a Justice Department   lawyer on the same day during a court hearing in Virginia about   the ban. The lawyer in that case said about 100, 000 visas had   been revoked. ’ ’   The State Department clarified that the higher figure includes   diplomatic and other visas that were actually exempted from the   travel ban, as well as expired visas. ’ ’   Ferguson, a Democrat, said the order is harming Washington   residents, businesses and its education system. ’ ”     businesses Amazon, Expedia and Microsoft support   the state’s efforts to stop the order. They say it’s hurting   their operations, too. ” ’   ___ ’ ’   Associated Press reporter Matthew Lee and Alicia A. Caldwell   contributed from Washington. ’ ’     ’ ’SEATTLE (AP)  —   A US judge on Friday. ..’