’  ’ ”   Financial analysts have now had a bit of time to pore over   Snap’s finances and issue their opinions, since it released   its IPO prospectus on Thursday. ” ’   One such analyst is James Gellert, CEO of . ’ ”   His mission is a little different to the average analyst. Instead   of Wall Street’s usual      view, Gellert   rates over 60, 000 public and private companies to see how likely   they are to default on their financial commitments, possibly   even to the point of bankruptcy. ” ’   Overall, Snap isn’’t at high risk to default. But it’’s not at low   risk either, Gellert finds. It rated a   meaning a medium   risk. The problem? Its ”core health is very poor,” Gellert writes   in his report on the company. ’ ’   Snap ”demonstrates weakness in earnings performance, operating   profitability, net profitability and capital structure efficiency   relative to the global industry set,” he writes, based on   analyzing Snap’’s finances over the last 12 months. ’ ”   In particular, Gellert says Snap’s capex efficiency is in the   lowest   percentile compared to other companies   globally. ” ’  ’ ”   That is, perhaps, to be expected. Snap is a young company growing   quickly and is dependent on   data centers (aka cloud   computing) to run its company. Last month, Snap signed a     $2 billion with Google to provide cloud services that   guarantees Google a payment of $400 million a year. Snap’s entire   revenue for 2016 was just over $404 million. ” ”   Snap has always used Google’s cloud and has been touted as one of   the Google cloud’s biggest success stories. In fact, Alphabet’s   venture capital arm, CapitalG,  ” ’   However, Snap may not be so dependent on Google forever. In the   fall, months before it signed this   deal, the company   famously hired  to lead its engineering team. ’ ’   Plus, it indicated in its SEC documents that it ”may invest in   building our own infrastructure” and that it is also ”currently   negotiating an agreement with another cloud provider for   redundant infrastructure support of our business operations.” ’ ’   The company offers no real hints about who that provider might   be. However, it does say that it worked with Oracle Data Cloud to   study how ads that run on its apps drive   sales of   consumer goods. It would be a huge coupe for Oracle to snare   some or all of Snap away from Google. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Twitter showed a showed a similar Financial Health profile   back in 2013 at the time of its IPO, but that’s not to say that   Snap is in for the same kind of trouble,”he says.  ’ ’   ”Snap has the unique opportunity to learn from Twitter’s giant   missteps, and if it’s going to have success, it needs to   capitalize,” he says. ’ ”   Plus, there’s no reason to believe Snap will experience Twitter’s   same problems. ” ’   ”The revolving door of management and lack of coherent product   direction at Twitter killed confidence. Their   CEO plan   is a bizarre and controversial decision. Snap needs to convey   direction, a path to profitability, and grow a team that has   confidence and stays with the company to then deliver results,”   he says. ’ ”   Then again, Snap has its own hurdle to overcome: it’s culture of   secrecy. ” ’   ”As a company that historically hasn’t conveyed much direction   and taken pride in its secrecy, even internally, this is a new   world. The public eye is sure to bring many challenges for Snap’s   management team considering the public equity markets don’t like   opacity,” Gellert says. ’ ’Financial analysts have now had a bit of. ..’