”Dozens of companies have been thrust to the forefront of the political battle between President Trump’s supporters and critics through a series of competing boycotts.” ”Trump’s critics have been urging customers to  including Ivanka Trump’s line of women’s clothing and accessories.” ’The   boycott movement, launched by Shannon Coulter, has been branded with the hashtag #GrabYourWallet on social media.’ ”Alternatively, Trump’s supporters have threatened to stop giving their business to companies that bow to the pressure and drop Trump products.” ”Here’s a list of the companies that have cut ties with the Trump family.” ’Uber CEO Travis Kalanick .’ ”Kalanick made the decision following calls for an international boycott against the   company after it was accused of trying to profit off of protests amongst taxi drivers against Trump’s immigration order.” ’In a memo to employees, Kalanick said he called the president to let him know he would be stepping down.’ ’”’ ”Nordstrom said Thursday that it decided to stop carrying Ivanka Trump’s brand because of declining sales.” ’”Each year we cut about 10% [of brands carried] and refresh our assortment with about the same amount,” a Nordstrom representative told Business Insider. ”In this case, based on the brand’’s performance we’’ve decided not to buy it for this season. ”’ ’’ ’Macy’’s stopped selling President Trump’’s line of menswear  —   which includes suits, ties, and accessories  —   in 2015 after the   referred to Mexican immigrants as ”rapists. ”’ ”After Trump won the presidency, Macy’s CEO Terry Lundgren said the company would continue to stand behind its decision.” ’”We made our decision about a year and a half ago, and stand by our decision,” Lundgren told .’ ”Macy’s stopped selling Trump’s brand in July 2015 after   Trump ” ’’ ’’ ’ a Canadian online shoe store, .’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Neiman Marcus appears to have cut ties with Ivanka Trump’s fashion brand.” ”Fifteen products from Ivanka Trump’s jewelry line were available on the retailer’s website as recently as Wednesday.” ’But as of Friday morning, all the products had disappeared.’ ”Neiman Marcus did not immediately respond to multiple requests for comment on why Trump’s products were no longer available.” ’Wayfair, which sells furniture and home decor, ’ ”At the time, the company did not offer an explanation for why it dropped the brand. Wayfair did not respond to Business Insider’s request for comment.” ’The home furnishings company Bellacor also dropped the Trump Home line in November. ’ ’The company was targeted by the #GrabYourWallet campaign last fall. In   . ’ ”Trump products are no longer available on the company’s website.” ’Bellacor did not respond to a request for comment on why the line was removed.’ ’ ’ ’Dozens of companies have been thrust to. ..’