’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump  halting refugee   arrivals into the US for 120 days and barring citizens of Iraq,   Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, Syria, and Yemen from entering the   US for 90 days. ’ ’   Prior to the immigration ban, however, Trump signed another   executive order, titled ”,”   containing a section that expands the role of immigration   officials to admit, detain, or deport individuals. ’ ”   While the immigration ban was met with an immediate backlash from    and  as well as  experts say the earlier executive order contains   sections that could have a massive impact on the US’s immigration   policy. ” ’   Buried in the text of the earlier executive order is a section   that could have widespread implications for the enforcement of   immigration laws. ’ ’   Take a look at Section 5: ’ ’     ”Sec. 5 Enforcement Priorities. In executing faithfully the     immigration laws of the United States, the Secretary of     Homeland Security (Secretary) shall prioritize for removal     those aliens described by the Congress . .. as well as removable     aliens who:   ’ ’     ”(a) Have been convicted of any criminal offense;   ’ ’     ”(b) Have been charged with any criminal offense, where such     charge has not been resolved;   ’ ’     ”(c) Have committed acts that constitute a chargeable criminal     offense;   ’ ’     ”(d) Have engaged in fraud or willful misrepresentation in     connection with any official matter or application before a     governmental agency;   ’ ’     ”(e) Have abused any program related to receipt of public     benefits;   ’ ’     ”(f) Are subject to a final order of removal, but who have not     complied with their legal obligation to depart the United     States; or   ’ ’     ”(g) In the judgment of an immigration officer, otherwise pose     a risk to public safety or national security.”   ’ ’   Immigration lawyers whom Business Insider spoke with had two   major concerns regarding Section 5. ’ ’  ’ ’   The first concern is that Section 5 seems to go   beyond Trump’s suggestion during his campaign that, at least   initially, he would prioritize only immigrants charged with   crimes for deportation. ’ ’   The broad list of criteria would apply to essentially every   immigrant living in the US illegally, making them all an   ”enforcement priority,” according to Mario Machado, a     criminal defense and immigration attorney . ’ ’   The section’’s repeated use of ”any,” Machado said, suggests that   all convictions, no matter how minor, could become cause to   ”trigger an enforcement priority and the expenditure of   government resources for detainment and deportation.” ’ ’   Machado went on to describe Section 5 as creating ”a federal   mandate to snare any and all convicts, no matter how small the   peccadillo.” ’ ’   The Obama administration’’s previous rules, established in a 2014   memo, . It prioritized for deportation   immigrants living in the US illegally who pose a ”threat to   national security” as well as those who have been convicted of   repeat offenses or ”significant misdemeanors” like sexual assault   or burglary. ’ ”   The two agencies, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as   ICE, and US Customs and Border Protection, known as CBP, are   housed within the Department of Homeland Security. CBP enforces   immigration laws at the border, while ICE is responsible for   enforcing immigration laws and carrying out deportations.   Immigration advocates see both of those agencies’ roles expanding   under Trump. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Claude Arnold, a former ICE special agent who now works for   Frontier Solutions, a     firm, told   Business Insider that in his 27 years working as an ICE special   agent, resource allocation was ”never an issue.” ’ ’   ”  employees want to go after the big fish,” Arnold   added. ”They have huge caseloads. They don’’t have time to just be   going out and arresting someone just because they’’re an illegal   alien.” ’ ’   Another factor that suggests immigration officers may not crack   down on minor offenses is detention space: There’’s only so much   room to hold people awaiting deportation, and Arnold said that if   officers were continually bringing in   offenders, those   offenders would ”be kicked out of the backdoor.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The second concern immigration advocates   share is that Section 5, subsection (g) directs officials to   prioritize removing ”aliens” who in ”the judgment of an   immigration officer, otherwise pose a risk to public safety or   national security.” ’ ’   Immigration advocates are concerned that the language leaves the   decision of who is detained, admitted, or deported from the US up   to the judgment of ICE and customs officials. ’ ’   ”It’’s a very vague, very opaque rule that’’s likely to be   inconsistently applied,” Reaz Jafri, an immigration lawyer who is   a partner at Withers Bergman and spent Saturday at John F.   Kennedy International Airport in New York working with those   affected by Trump’’s temporary immigration ban, told Business   Insider. ”The decision to admit, or detain a person is in the   unchecked hands of customs officers.” ’ ’   The National ICE Council, a union representing ICE   officials,  that the Trump administration had   ”empowered” the agency’’s officials to ”allow law enforcement to   do its job.” ’ ’   ”The men and women of ICE and Border Patrol will work tirelessly   to keep criminals, terrorists, and public safety threats out of   this country, which remains the number one target in the world  —     and President Trump’’s actions now empower us to fulfill this life   saving mission, and it will indeed save thousands of lives and   billions of dollars,” . ’ ’  ’ ”   Jafri, however, took issue with the idea that customs officers,   most of whom have no legal training, be allowed to make those   decisions without oversight. Under the Obama administration,   Jafri said, customs officers applied a law with much stricter   precedents, guidelines, and regulations than those laid out in   Trump’s executive action. ” ’   ”That all seems to have gone out the door,” he said. ’ ’   Arnold, meanwhile, believes that Trump’’s executive order simply   restores the ” ” authority for discretion that he   said ICE and CBP officers had before . The Trump   administration’’s executive order .  ’ ’   ”Law enforcement need all their authorities available to be   productive,” Arnold added. ”All I see that this executive order   has done is restore discretion to the   agent or   officer, and leave it up to them to decide how to exercise their   authority.” ’ ”   It remains to be seen how or whether Trump’s executive action   will change the conduct of ICE and CBP officials. The sudden   rollout of Trump’s immigration ban was heavily criticized as   being disorganized, with Jafri, for example, pointing to   confusion over how to treat those who held dual citizenship in   one of the countries affected by the ban. ” ’   Jafri said that even after  he was still cautioning one of his   clients, a dual   national who resides in the US,   from leaving the country. ’ ’   Moving forward, the steady trickle of executive orders from the   Trump Administration means that for immigration lawyers and   border officials, confusion still reigns.  ’ ’   ”Whatever I say now,” Jafri said, ”may not be applicable in 48   hours.” ’ ’President Donald Trump signed an executive. ..’