’  ’ ”   On Monday,  that Michael Flynn, the   retired general and national security adviser to President Donald   Trump, would advise the Trump administration to back Montenegro’s   entrance into NATO  —   a move that surely would infuriate Russia. ” ’   Flynn has longstanding ties to Russia  —   most notably, he was paid   to attend a gala event for Russia Today, a Russian propaganda   outlet. On that occasion, he dined with Russian President   Vladimir Putin. ’ ”   The Wall Street Journal  that US   counterintelligence agents investigated Flynn’s ties to Russia.   Recently, a  urged the   Department of Defense to do the same. ” ”   Throughout his campaign and presidency, Trump has  and   the US’s adversarial relationship with Russia. ” ”   Despite that, the  has   backed Montenegro’s NATO bid for over a year. During this time,   the small Balkan nation faced increasing pressure from Russia  —     including a  in October that may be tied to   Moscow. ” ”   A special prosecutor in Montenegro said in November that Russian   nationalists tried to sway the country’s October election with    Milo Djukanovic, the     prime minister. ” ’   ”The organizers of this criminal group were nationalists from   Russia whose initial premise and conclusion was that the   government in Montenegro led by Milo Djukanovic cannot be changed   in election and that it should be toppled by force,” Milivoje   Katnic, special prosecutor for organized crime in Montenegro,   said at the time. ’ ’  ’ ”   Flynn’s backing of Montenegro’s entrance into NATO would   seemingly fly in the face of Trump’s proposal to try to befriend   Russia, as Russia sees NATO expansion as aggression against its   interests. ” ’   Jorge Benitez, a senior fellow and NATO expert at the Atlantic   Council,  ”No NATO candidate country has   ever faced such a dire attack or threat in the process of   finishing its membership into the alliance.” ’ ’   However, Flynn is not alone among Trump appointees in striking a   more hawkish tone toward Moscow. The US’’s ambassador to the UN,   Nikki Haley, also signaled such an approach,  ”The dire situation in   eastern Ukraine is one that demands clear and strong condemnation   of Russian actions.” ’ ’   Russia officially denies a military presence in eastern Ukraine,   where fighting has recently reignited. ’ ’   Before Montenegro could join NATO, its accession bid must be   approved by all 28 current NATO states and   of the US   Senate. ’ ’On Monday, Politico reported that Michael. ..’