’  ’ ”   It’s a good time to be at Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s old   firm, Exxon Mobil. ” ”   Last week, Senate Republicans voted along party lines to get rid   of the   rule that forces huge oil and gas companies to   disclose  while they’re doing   business abroad. ” ”   Now, you can be excused if you feel like the urgency for killing   this specific rule seems to have come out of nowhere. Arguments   for getting rid of    —   the 2010 legislation meant to   help protect taxpayers from another financial crisis  —   usually   involve helping overregulated community banks that can’t lend,   . ” ’   The arguments usually do not involve helping massive oil   companies like Exxon Mobil keep its dealings in foreign countries   secret. Yet getting rid of this rule was first on the agenda. ’ ’   ”The fact that that’’s what they’’re singling out for their attack   tells you where their agenda is heading. It tells you that   they’’re not serious about what they say they want to do,” said    a professor of law at the University of   Michigan and expert on financial reform. ”It’’s not that they want   to unleash lending in the US, it’’s that they want to let Wall   Street firms do whatever they want. It’’s not helping families or   small businesses.” ’ ”   In 2010, as this rule was being written into     Tillerson, then the CEO of Exxon, visited Richard Lugar, then the   Republican senator from Indiana  —   one of the rule’s architects  —     in hopes that it would never see the light of day. ” ” Tillerson argued that forcing his   company’s dealings with foreign governments into the light would   hurt its competitiveness in the market. ” ’   But Lugar was undeterred. By forcing transparency, he hoped that   governments in poor,   countries would also be forced   to give their people a fairer shake. Exxon continued to lobby   against the rule. It expressed its displeasure to the Securities   and Exchange Commission in a  in March 2016, when Tillerson was still CEO. ’ ”   That aside, it could be considered a political success. After the   rule was passed in the US, the European Union, Norway, and Canada   followed suit with their own versions. That means a lot of   Exxon’s competitors have to disclose to someone, even if not to   the US government. Even   Russian firms have to adhere   to this rule to operate within the EU. ” ’   Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters of California pointed all of this   out in a statement last week admonishing Republicans for rolling   back the rule. ’ ’   ”That rule helps fight corruption in the extractive industries   sector, provides investors with crucial information on their   investments, and enables citizens to demand greater   accountability from their governments for spending that serves   the public interest,” she said. ”It also helps to diminish the   political instability in   countries, which is not   only a threat to investment, but also to our own national   security.” ’ ’   She also said that   actors like ISIS benefit when oil   money falls through the cracks, and that   countries   like Venezuela and Angola have become unstable because of   corruption and a lack of transparency in their energy sectors. ’ ’  ’ ’   Of course, this is just the beginning of what Republicans want to   do with  . The chairman of the House Financial Services   Committee, Rep. Jeb Hensarling of Texas, wants to replace it with   something called . ’ ’   It’’s dramatically different from  . For one thing, it   would eliminate the ”orderly liquidation” option from banks. That   is to say, banks would no longer have to have a plan for what to   do in the event of another crisis  —   an emergency plan for a   disaster we know is eventually coming. ’ ’   ”There’’s an ideological opposition to [orderly liquidation] from   Republicans on the Hill that doesn’’t make any sense,” Barr said.   ”It’’s just a very blinded focus on the wrong set of issues that   will take us back to the problems we faced in 2008, when the Bush   administration had two choices: It could bail out Lehman and AIG   or let them fail.” ’ ’     put up consumer protections for everything from payday   loans to credit cards, student loans to complex Wall Street   derivatives. It even contains financial protections for military   families. ’ ’   ”Trump campaigned saying he was going to go after Wall Street,   and he’’s doing the opposite,” Barr said. ”Everything they want to   do so far is an unmitigated disaster. . .. It’’s like they have   this collective amnesia about the causes of the financial crisis.   I think we’’re in for just a horrible ride, and I hope they don’’t   blow up the economy.” ’ ”It’s a good time to be at Secretary of State. ..”