’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump’’s  about a ”Muslim ban” and the  targeting seven     countries may undermine the government’’s legal   arguments for upholding the order, law experts say. ’ ’   Legal challenges to presidential executive orders are almost   always ”an automatic win” for the government, especially when   they invoke   concerns, said William Stock, the   president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. ’ ’   But the lawsuits against Trump’’s immigration order  —   which Trump   has said he would appeal   —   seem to be an exception for two   major reasons, Stock said: ”The first is 12 months’’ worth of   statements about a ’’Muslim ban. ’’ The second is the president’’s   habitual misstatements of facts and statistics that I really   think have caused the court to look upon his claims about the     imperative for this order with great   skepticism.” ’ ’   The Trump administration has insisted that the ”extreme vetting”   order signed by Trump in late January does not amount to a   ”Muslim ban.” Lawyers and   organizations have argued   that the ban violates the establishment clause of the First   Amendment by ”explicitly disapproving of one religion and   implicitly preferring others.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In December 2015, Trump called for ”a total and complete shutdown   of Muslims entering the United States,” and former Mayor Rudy   Giuliani, of New York, who advised the Trump campaign,  last week that Trump called him and asked  ’ ’   Trump also told the Christian Broadcasting Network  last month that Syrian Christians would be   given priority when applying for refugee status. That promise   seems to have been codified in the order, which states that the   US will ”prioritize refugee claims made by individuals on the   basis of   persecution, provided that the religion   of the individual is a minority religion in the individual’s   country of nationality.” ’ ”   Experts say those comments could hurt the government’s case in   the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which heard arguments on   Tuesday night over whether a temporary restraining order issued   by a federal judge in Seattle last week should be upheld while   the order’s legality is established. ” ’   ”Those statements are definitely relevant, because there’’s a   longstanding doctrine that there can be laws or executive orders   that on their face don’’t discriminative on the basis of race or   religion but that is their motive  —   and if that is their motive,   they can be struck down,” Ilya Somin, a George Mason University   law professor, . ’ ”   Washington state’s solicitor general, Noah Purcell, argued before   the Ninth Circuit judges on Tuesday that Trump’s intention in   signing the order was to bar a particular religious group  —     Muslims  —   from entering the US and therefore was   unconstitutional. ” ’   August Flentje, who argued the government’’s case for the   Department of Justice in front of the Ninth Circuit judges on   Tuesday, has not disputed that Trump and Giuliani made those   statements. He said, however, that it was ”extraordinary for a   court to enjoin the president’’s   decision based   on some newspaper articles.” ’ ’  ’ ’   It is unclear whether the comments will be enough to ensure   victory for the plaintiffs. Because the ban does not explicitly   mention ”Islam” or ”Muslims,” it may be shielded from legal   challenges arguing that it violates the Constitution’’s guarantees   of religious freedom and due process. ’ ’   Michael McConnell, the director of the Constitutional Law Center   at Stanford Law School who formerly served as a judge on the 10th   Circuit Court of Appeals, said ”evidence of subjective bad   motivations” on the part of the executive might not be enough to   question an otherwise ”neutral” government action. ’ ’   ”The general principle is that government action that is neutral   and nondiscriminatory cannot be impugned because of evidence of   subjective bad motivations on the part of legislators (or in this   case, the executive),” McConnell said in an email. ”There are   some establishment clause cases to the contrary, but the   establishment clause does not apply to actions taken abroad in   relation to other nations.” ’ ’   If Trump’’s past comments about a ban on Muslims don’’t weigh   heavily on the judges’’ perceptions of his motivations, the speed   with which the order was drafted and rolled out  —   largely   bypassing the government’’s traditional     apparatus  —   may give the court reason enough to wonder whether an   ”ulterior motive” was at play, Stock said. ’ ’   Reports emerged in the days after the order was signed that   Department of Homeland Security staff members were allowed to see   the order only after Trump signed it, and National Security   Council lawyers were  from evaluating it. The   State Department and the Department of Defense were also excluded   from the process, . ’ ’   Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly said in  that he knew the executive   order ”was coming” but would not comment on whether he saw the   full document before Trump signed it. ’ ’   ”People on my staff were generally involved” in drafting the   order, Kelly said, noting that he thought the order was ”fairly   clear.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”It’’s not too difficult to portray the policy as just being     irrational,” Temple University law professor Peter Spiro    on Monday. ”There are lots of elements of the story   that cast doubt on the efficacy of this law, the way in which it   was adopted, whether it would advance any counterterror   objectives  —   it just all looks bad.” ’ ’   Indeed, the courts are more likely to focus on whether there is   ”an adequate factual basis for singling out these specific   countries as distinct sources of risk,” Richard Pildes, a   professor of Constitutional Law at New York University, told   Business Insider in an email. ’ ’   Critics of the order have noted that the countries it targets  —     Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, and Yemen  —   seem   arbitrary, and do not include countries that have posed serious   terror threats in the past such as Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt,   and the United Arab Emirates. ’ ’   The immigration order cites the September 11, 2001, terrorist   attacks three times as justification for the ban, but the     hijackers were from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab   Emirates, and Lebanon. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump  that the seven countries named in the executive   order ”are the same countries previously identified by the Obama   administration as sources of terror.” The DOJ similarly claimed    to the US Court of Appeals that the listed   countries had ”a previously identified link to an increased risk   of terrorist activity.” ’ ’   As  however, the original intent of   the law passed during the Obama administration ”was to insist on   greater scrutiny of people who had traveled to Syria and Iraq,   even if they were citizens of countries that qualified for a visa   waiver.” ”In other words,” The Post, said, ”lawmakers were   seeking to identify possible radicalization, not single out   citizens.” ’ ’   So far, the government has had difficulty proving that citizens   from the seven targeted countries pose an elevated terror risk   over others  —   and whether, as Stock put it, ”something changed on   January 20th that justified invalidating 60, 000 legally issued   visas.” ’ ’   Judge Michelle T. Friedland, who was appointed by President   Barack Obama and is one of three judges from the Ninth Circuit   Court of Appeals presiding over the   case, asked   Flentje, the DOJ lawyer, whether the government had any evidence   connecting the seven nations targeted by the order to terrorism. ’ ’   Flentje replied that the record of the case, so far, did not   include any such evidence. ’ ’   ”The proceedings have been moving very fast,” he said. ’ ”President Donald Trump’s past comments about a. ..”