’  ’ ”   Thrust onto the presidential campaign trail after the  in late 1989,   Cesar Gaviria won Colombia’s highest office in late 1990, and   over the next four years he worked closely with the US (and other   more suspect allies) . ” ’   The hunt for Escobar was just one element of the brutal,     drug war in Colombia, which has   been   by drug cartels, criminal gangs,     paramilitaries, and   rebel groups, all of   which have had some role in the drug trade. ’ ’   In a  published on Tuesday,   Gaviria turned his attention to the Philippines, where the bloody   crackdown on drugs and the drug trade mounted by President   Rodrigo Duterte has killed  since Duterte took   office last summer. ’ ’   ”Illegal drugs are a matter of national security, but the war   against them cannot be won by armed forces and law enforcement   agencies alone,” Gaviria writes. ”Throwing more soldiers and   police at the drug users is not just a waste of money but also   can actually make the problem worse. Locking up nonviolent   offenders and drug users almost always backfires, instead   strengthening organized crime.” ’ ’   Philippine authorities have been accused of a ”” campaign   of extrajudicial violence, targeting people involved in or   thought to be involved in the drug trade. ’ ’   As Gaviria notes in his   the Philippines already has a    and the   application of harsh   measures makes it harder for users   to seek treatment. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The Duterte administration’’s relentless pressure on the police   to deliver results in   operations has helped encourage   these abusive practices,” a recent  said of   accusations against Philippine police. ’ ”   While criticism of Duterte’s campaign against drugs has been   ongoing, the recent  of a South Korean   businessman brought renewed outcry. ” ’   Duterte has admitted that the national police on the front line   of the drug war are ”,” and suspended them from   their leading role in that effort, but he also extended his fight   against drugs until the last day of his term in 2022 and has   brought the military into the campaign in a ”” role. ’ ’   ”Taking a hard line against criminals is always popular for   politicians. I was also seduced into taking a tough stance on   drugs during my time as president,” Gaviria writes, : ’ ”   Gaviria call for a reassessment of the fight against drugs is one   that  by Colombia’s current leader,   Juan Manuel Santos. ” ’  ’ ’   Santos has also  one of which is now in the process of disarming and   another started talks with the government . ’ ’   Even with those groups off the battlefield, Colombia will still   grapple with powerful criminal organizations, many of which are   jockeying to assume criminal enterprises vacated by demobilizing   rebel fighters. ’ ’   Gaviria calls for continuing to approach drugs and drug use as   social problems, targeting criminals and their networks but also   working to support drug users and provide alternatives to harsh   criminal penalties for their use. ’ ’   ”This is a test that many of my Colombian compatriots have   failed,” he . ”I hope Mr. Duterte does not fall   into the same trap.” ’ ’Thrust onto the presidential campaign trail. ..’