’  ’ ’   White House press secretary Sean Spicer acknowledged Thursday   that President Donald Trump has leveled attacks on the US   judiciary and that Judge Neil Gorsuch said attacks on the   judiciary were  ’ ”   But Spicer repeatedly insisted that Gorsuch’s comments had   nothing to do with Trump’s comments, leading to heated exchanges   with White House reporters about the issue. ” ’   Gorsuch, the 10th US Circuit Court of Appeals judge who was   nominated by Trump to the fill vacant Supreme Court seat, made   the comments on Wednesday during a meeting with Sen. Richard   Blumenthal of Connecticut. ’ ”   As Blumenthal told reporters, Gorsuch  by Trump’s attack on a federal   judge. A representative for the Supreme Court nomination team   confirmed the judge’s remarks to Business Insider on Wednesday. ” ’   ”He said very specifically that they were demoralizing and   disheartening, and he characterized them very specifically that   way,” Blumenthal said, . ”I said they were more than   disheartening, and I said to him that he has an obligation to   make his views clear to the American people, so they understand   how abhorrent or unacceptable President Trump’’s attacks on the   judiciary are.” ’ ’   But Trump took aim at Blumenthal in a Thursday tweet, saying the   Connecticut Democrat ”misrepresents” what Gorsuch said. ’ ’   In a  Kelly Ayotte, the former   Republican senator from New Hampshire who is leading the effort   to help confirm Gorsuch, said the judge ”made it very clear in   all of his discussions with senators, including Senator   Blumenthal, that he could not comment on any specific cases and   that judicial ethics prevent him from commenting on political   matters. ’ ’   ”He has also emphasized the importance of an independent   judiciary, and while he made clear that he was not referring to   any specific case, he said that he finds any criticism of a   judge’’s integrity and independence disheartening and   demoralizing,” she continued. ’ ’  ’ ”   But elsewhere Thursday morning, another member of the Senate,   Republican Ben Sasse of Nebraska, relayed similar remarks that   Gorsuch made to him about Trump’s attacks on the judiciary. ” ’   Sasse told MSNBC that  when asked about Trump’’s remarks,   adding that any attack on ”brothers or sisters of the robe” is an   attack on all judges. ’ ’   Taking aim at Blumenthal’’s relaying of the comments, Spicer said   Gorsuch was making ”two very complete, distinct arguments.” ’ ’   Spicer said Gorsuch believed he ”should not be commenting on a   political matter or on specific things,” but ”on the whole, he   doesn’’t like attacks in general on the judiciary.” ’ ’   ”It was a very distinct argument that he was making,” Spicer   said. ”And that’’s where I think we’’ve got to be clear. And that’’s   what Senator Ayotte was saying. Very, very different. . .. So you   can’’t then take that and equate it back to the specific.” ’ ”   Asked specifically about Sasse’s comments, Spicer avoided   answering. ” ’ Trump fired off a series of   tweets during which he called US District Judge James Robart  —     appointed by President George W. Bush  —   a ” ” judge.   Robart issued a nationwide stay on parts of Trump’’s executive   order temporarily banning travel into the US from seven     nations while the US reviews its vetting   procedures. ’ ’   Trump later suggested that should any terrorist attacks occur   while the stay was issued on the travel ban, the judge should be   blamed. Critics of his remarks said the president was seeking to   undermine the independence of the judiciary. ’ ’   Spicer said on Thursday that Trump had no regrets about his   comments. ’ ’   ”I think the president’’s comments speak for themselves,” he said. ’ ’   The press secretary said Trump ”is going to speak his mind” and   that the press corps didn’’t express ”similar concern” when   President Barack Obama commented during a State of the Union   address on a Supreme Court decision in the Citizens United case. ’ ’   ”He is free to speak his mind,” Spicer said of Trump. ”Part of   the reason the president got elected is because he speaks his   mind.” ’ ’White House press secretary Sean Spicer. ..’