’  ’ ’   Seeking to regroup after a stinging legal defeat, President   Donald Trump said Friday he is considering signing a ”brand new   order” after his refugee and immigration travel ban . ’ ’   ”We will win that battle,” said Trump to reporters on Air Force   One as he flew to Florida for the weekend. ’ ’   ”The unfortunate part is that it takes time statutorily, but we   will win that battle,” Trump said according to a press pool   report. ”We also have a lot of other options, including just   filing a brand new order.” ’ ’   When asked specifically what changes would be made, Trump said,   ”New security measures. We have very, very strong vetting. I call   it extreme vetting and we’’re going very strong on security. We   are going to have people coming to our country that want to be   here for good reason.”  ’ ’   Trump also said that ”in honor of the [Ninth Circuit] decision,”   he would likely wait until next week a new measure. ”Perhaps   Monday or Tuesday,” he said.  ’ ”   Trump’s comments came a day after the 9th US Circuit Court of   Appeals upheld a restraining order on his original travel   ban. The president has cast the order as crucial for   national security. ” ’   ”We’’ll be doing things to continue to make our country safe,”   Trump pledged at a news conference with Japanese Prime Minister   Shinzo Abe. ”It will happen rapidly. We will not allow people   into our country who are looking to do harm to our people.” ’ ’   The president’’s comments were far more restrained than his angry   reaction to last week’’s initial court ruling blocking the travel   ban. Trump took aim at both the ”  judge” in that case   and the ruling, which he called ”ridiculous.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump continued to conjure images of unspecified danger Friday,   saying he had ”learned tremendous things that you could only   learn, frankly, if you were in a certain position, namely   president. And there are tremendous threats to our country. We   will not allow that to happen, I can tell you that. We will not   allow that to happen.” ’ ’   The 9th Circuit ruling represented a significant setback for   Trump in just his third week in office. The appellate decision   brushed aside arguments by the Justice Department that the   president has the constitutional power to restrict entry to the   United States and that the courts cannot   his   determination that such a step was needed to prevent terrorism. ’ ’   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer tweeted that Trump ”ought to   see the writing on the wall” and abandon the proposal. The New   York Democrat called on the president to ”roll up his sleeves”   and come up with ”a real, bipartisan plan to keep us safe.” ’ ’   House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California promised,   ”Democrats will continue to press for President Trump’’s dangerous   and unconstitutional ban to be withdrawn.” And Trump’’s former   presidential rival Hillary Clinton offered a terse response on   Twitter, noting the unanimous vote: ” .” ’ ’  ’ ”   Congress’ Republican leaders, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate   Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, declined to comment. ” ”   US District Judge James Robart in Seattle issued the temporary   restraining order halting the ban after Washington state and   Minnesota sued, leading to the federal government’s appeal. ” ’   The Trump administration has said the seven nations  —   Iran, Iraq,   Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen  —   have raised terrorism   concerns. The states have argued that the executive order   unconstitutionally blocked entry based on religion and the travel   ban harmed individuals, businesses and universities. ’ ”   Trump and his aides frequently refer to a ruling by a federal   judge in Boston who declined last week to extend a temporary   injunction against Trump’s travel ban. In a separate federal   ruling in Seattle, a different federal judge put the ban on hold   nationwide; it is that judge’s decision that the White House has   challenged. ” ’   ”It’’s a decision that we’’ll win, in my opinion, very easily and,   by the way, we won that decision in Boston,” Trump said. ’ ’Seeking to regroup after a stinging legal. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’