’  ’ ’   US Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers  Guadalupe García de Rayos from   Phoenix to Nogales, Mexico, on Thursday. ’ ’   Rayos had lived in the US for 21 years, after crossing the border   when she was 14. Her lawyer said the removal was a ”” of Trump’’s crackdown on   illegal immigration. ’ ’   Her family and others tried to block the deportation, with one   man going so far as to  around the front wheel of the   van transporting her out of an ICE facility. ’ ”   She was not the first person in the US deported back to Mexico.   On February 8,  in Mexico City, greeted   by that country’s president and TV cameras. Nor will she be the   last. ” ’   Later on Thursday, ICE agents in Los Angeles reportedly swept up    spurring  there. In Austin, Texas, five   undocumented migrants were reportedly picked up in separate,   targeted raids, an unheard of total  to one local nonprofit organizer. ’ ’   On Friday, the US Department of Homeland Security  that ICE had raided homes and   workplaces in Atlanta and the Los Angeles area, and activists   said other raids had been carried out in Virginia, North   Carolina, New York, Kansas, and other parts of Texas and   California. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tICE immigration sweeps spur protests. Now blocking 101 fwy onramp in   ’ ’   There are a little over 11 million undocumented migrants in the   US, about . ’ ’   Trump said last year he would target ”” immigrants for deportation, and immigration orders   he’’s signed since taking office have expanded the number of   people who can be deported by  of ”criminal.” ’ ’   Trump seems intent on mounting   deportations, sending   many people back to Mexico. In Mexico, government officials are   preparing for that influx. ’ ’   Already, there has been ”a meeting between federal and state   authorities to deal in terms of developing a strategy on how   they’’re going to handle the proposed Trump deportation into   Mexico,” Mike Vigil, a former chief of international operations   for the US Drug Enforcement Administration, told Business   Insider, citing conversations he’’d had with a Mexican security   official. ’ ”   Trump’s dealings with Mexico have been fraught, and some have   speculated deportation will proceed similarly. ” ’  ’ ’   ”In an environment ot tension between both countries,   deportations probably won’’t happen in the framework of orderly   repatriation programs,” Mexican security analyst    magazine   Zeta in November. ’ ”   While US and Mexican officials have met, reportedly  it’s not known   if they addressed deportations. ” ”   In spite of that lack of among Mexican officials, they reportedly   have a plan for how they’ll handle the arrivals. ” ’   Mexican officials are ”of the opinion that Trump also wants to   send individuals that were born Central American through Mexico,   and they opposed that,” said Vigil, author of ”.” ’ ’   ”They want the United States to fly them or do whatever they have   to do, but they don’’t want them going into or through Mexico,” he   said, adding: ’ ’     ”The other thing that they plan on doing is that once these     individuals are deported into Mexico they’’ll concentrate them     on the border for about three days, and then from there they’’ll     bus them to their respective states so that they’’re not all     just en masse along the border, because that would aggravate     the situation.”   ’ ’     ”And then each state would be responsible for trying to get all     of these individuals jobs. That way all of these deportations     are not concentrated along the border states, but dispersed     throughout all the Mexican states, depending on where they come     from.”   ’ ’   The Mexican government appears to have already put something like   this plan into action. ’ ’  ’ ’   When those  in Mexico City on   Wednesday, President Enrique Peña Nieto told them there were job   opportunities in Mexico. Each of the returnees was given a   backpack with a repatriation letter, a phone card, and a bus   ticket. ’ ’   The effort to move deportees around the country in a orderly   fashion likely comes out of a concern over security as much as   one for human rights. ’ ”   The US government sent a considerable number of people back to   Central America in the 1990s and 2000s, and that sudden influx to   weak states emerging from civil wars  to transnational   gangs and to the region’s current instability. ” ’   A large population with few roots in Mexico and dim prospects for   work could, as in Central America in the 1990s, feed the ranks of   criminal organizations  in some parts of   Mexico. ’ ’   ”They want to disperse it,” Vigil said, ”so that it’’s not like   all of a sudden Chihuahua or Baja California norte is saddled   with all these mass deportations.” ’ ’  ’ ”   While the Mexican government may be able to transport deportees   around the country, finding them steady employment is going to be   more difficult. The Peña Nieto government has struggled to create   jobs for people in already in the country, and Mexico’s recent   weak economic performance will likely make that a   challenge going forward. ” ”   The relative purchasing power of Mexican salaries  a trend   exacerbated by the peso’s lackluster performance over the last   few months. One of the deportees who arrived in the country this   week even  that creating jobs was not   enough  —   the salaries needed to go up too. ” ’   ”It’’s still unclear as to what resources they’’re going to put   forth,” Vigil said of the federal government’’s plan. ”But I think   that they’’ll try to get a lot of jobs, primarily agricultural   jobs, at least that’’s what the focus is right now.” ’ ”   In the wake of Rayos’ sudden deportation, the Mexican government   also warned Mexican citizens still in the US. ” ’  ’ ’   ”The case involving Mrs. Garcia de Rayos illustrates a new   reality for the Mexican community living in the United States,   facing the most severe implementation of immigration control   measures,” Mexico’’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement on   Friday. ’ ’   Rayos deportation prompted the Mexican foreign minister    government to respect due   process and human rights during the deportation process, which   the ministry reiterated in its statement. ’ ’   Mexican consulates ”have intensified their work of protecting   fellow nationals, foreseeing more severe immigration measures to   be implemented by the authorities of this country, and possible   violations to constitutional precepts during such operations and   problems with due process.” ’ ”   Despite the  of some members of the   Trump administration with officials in the Peña Nieto government,   the two don’t seem to be on the same page on most issues. ” ’   ”I don’’t think that the US government has really thought this   out,” Vigil said. ”They have to have much better coordination   than they’’re having with the Mexican government.” ’ ’   ”How many people are deported is going to play a very key role,”   he said, ”because if they don’’t have the jobs to satisfy all of   these individuals, all it’’s going to do is feed the ranks of   these cartels, which will then expand their territory throughout   Mexico,” he added. ”And, again, that would be a disastrous   situation for both Mexico and the United States.” ’ ’US Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’