’  ’ ”   JUPITER, Fla. (AP)  —   President Donald Trump has long boasted   about his prowess on the golf course. Now he’s putting his game   to work. ” ’   The president spent his Saturday morning golfing with Japanese   Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as he hosts his first foreign leader at   his winter estate in Palm Beach, Florida. ’ ’   After a rocky diplomatic start that included contentious phone   calls with the leaders of Mexico and Australia, the friendly   weekend of meetings, dinners and golf suggests the new president   is willing to invest time in developing close personal   relationships with leaders he feels he can work with. ’ ”   Trump and Abe left    early Saturday morning and headed   north to one of Trump’s golf courses in Jupiter, Florida.   Reporters weren’t able to catch a glimpse of the pair as they   played on the   property. ” ’   But Trump later posted a photo of them giving each other a     on the golf course and tweeted, ”Having a great time   hosting Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in the United States!” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMelania and I are hosting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Mrs. Abe at    in Palm Beach, Fla. They are a wonderful couple! ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tHaving a great time hosting Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in the United States!    ’ ’   The Trump National Golf Club website, in typical Trumpian   language, claims the course ”features the finest revetted bunkers   in the United States, incredible water hazards, including a   magnificent island green, and one of the most picturesque   landscapes, all of which make for a truly memorable round.” ’ ”   Abe had joked at a joint press conference at the White House on   Friday that he was looking forward to playing golf with Trump,   even though he’s not nearly as good with a club. ” ’   He said he planned to use the time to discuss the future of the   world, the Pacific region and U. S.  relations. ’ ’   As their husbands golfed, Melania Trump and Akie Abe toured the   Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens in nearby Delray Beach. The   women were also expected to have lunch together at   . ’ ’  ’ ”   The two couples touched down in Florida on Friday afternoon and   headed straight to Trump’s    Club, where they enjoyed a   late dinner at its crowded patio restaurant. They were joined by   Robert Kraft, the owner of the Super Bowl champion New England   Patriots, and several interpreters. Paying members and club   guests took in the scene and mingled with Trump and Abe into the   night. ” ’   The president and Mrs. Trump are expected to host a more formal   delegation dinner with the Abes on Saturday night. ’ ”   Trump is also expected to tend to other business in Florida. He’s   scheduled to speak by phone Saturday afternoon with Tunisian   President Beji Caid Essebsi and Colombian President Juan Manuel   Santos. ” ’  ’ ’   Trump and Abe appear to have hit it off early. Abe was the only   world leader to meet with Trump before his inauguration, and   Trump welcomed Abe to the White House with a hug. ’ ’   As a candidate, Trump often railed against former President   Barack Obama for his frequent golfing, claiming Obama played more   often than players on the PGA Tour. ’ ”   He said if he won he’d likely be too busy to golf and would only   play with people he was looking to make deals with. ” ”   One of Trump’s first actions as president was to withdraw the   U. S. from a     trade agreement that was   negotiated by the Obama administration and strongly supported by   Tokyo. ” ’   Abe has said that Japan may be open to a bilateral trade deal   with the U. S. but reaching such a deal would be political   difficult. Japan logged the second largest trade surplus with the   U. S. last year. ’ ”JUPITER, Fla. (AP)  —   President Donald Trump has long boasted about his prowess on the golf course. Now he’s putting his game to work.” ’’ ’’ ’’