’ Average home prices fell in the Hamptons in       2016. ’ ”   The Hamptons have long been a weekend playground for New York   City’s wealthiest and most fashionable.  ” ’   But thanks to a softening real estate market and the growing   appeal of more affordable destinations, that could be about to   change.  ’ ”   The various hamlets of Long Island’s East End are certainly still   a haven for celebrities and Wall Streeters, as well as an older   set of travelers, but there are some signs that the attention of   potential   buyers could be shifting north. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   While the luxury market in the Hamptons does appear to be   softening, another destination with easy access to New York City   has been growing in popularity.  ’ ’   The Hudson Valley is often broadly defined as the area stretching   north from New York City along the Hudson River to Albany.   Divided into three regions  —   lower, mid, and upper  —   the Hudson   Valley is known for its charming towns,   estates, and   proximity to the Catskill Mountains.   and Amtrak   trains provide relatively easy access to these communities, each   of which has their own unique personalities. ’ ”   According to a   report from  of Sotheby’s, Hudson Valley’s luxury real estate   market accelerated significantly at the end of 2016. Though   median prices remained steady at around $1 million, the rate at   which properties changed hands grew rapidly through the second   half of the year.  ” ’   ”We’’re cautiously optimistic that the momentum generated in the   second half of the year will carry forward into 2017,” the report   reads.  ’ ’   ”The fourth quarter was very busy, and this quarter is too,”   Heather Croner told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   Richard Ellis, owner of  in Nyack, New York, said that he has   witnessed a growing trend of New Yorkers buying property in the   Hudson Valley over the last few years. Many vacation home buyers   he has done business with work in finance, have their primary   residences in Downtown Manhattan or Brooklyn, and are in their     to 50s.  ’ ’   He has even worked with some clients who were specifically   looking to trade in their Hamptons home for a quieter spot in the   Hudson Valley. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The Hudson Valley is a special place  —   it’’s got everything that   NYC is missing (grass! space! quiet!) with pockets of crazy   energy and entrepreneurial spirit,” he told Business Insider.   ”Once we started spending a lot of time up there, we started   realizing how many other friends of ours were also in the process   of finding a way to call the Hudson Valley home, at least    .” ’ ’   ”In Kingston, we’’ve found friends within the strong community of   makers and do’’ers  —   some who work in tech, some who are writers   and artists, some who have opened small shops or other local   business  —   and many of these folks were involved in helping us   build Kingston Stockade FC.” ’ ’ ’ ’   Taken as a whole, the newest generation of travelers seem to    over luxury goods. And with lots   of space to hike and interact with nature, the Catskills and   Hudson Valley could be attracting   tourists on   that point alone.  ’ ”   According to an analysis by vacation rental site  New York     travelers are becoming more and more interested in the Hudson   Valley as a vacation destination. Searches of rentable properties   in the Hudson Valley by New Yorkers grew 121% between 2015 and   2016, according to HomeAway’s analysis. ” ’   In comparison, search inquiries of the Hamptons grew just 35% in   the same period, though the Hamptons continue to be more popular   overall. ’ ’  ’ ’     company  analyzed weekend   foot traffic and came to a similar conclusion, though it focused   its study specifically on young travelers. According to the   findings, which were first reported in  New   travelers between the ages of   20 and 24 ”increased their trips to the Hudson Valley and   Catskills by nearly 55% in the summer of 2016 compared to the   same time in 2012. During that same period, this same group   decreased excursions to the Hamptons by nearly 46%.” ’ ’   New Yorkers venturing to the Hudson Valley and the Catskills can   take advantage of a wide range of activities, from hiking in the   Mohonk Preserve, to touring the art galleries of Kingston, to   exploring the   estates where the Vanderbilts and   Roosevelts once lived in Hyde Park.  ’ ’   Plus, the close proximity of the    means that there are plenty of excellent restaurants  —   many of   which place an emphasis on    ingredients  —   for both   visitors and new   owners to enjoy. The towns of Hudson   and Rhinebeck are especially popular destinations with the foodie   crowd.  ’ ’  ’ ’Average home prices fell in the Hamptons in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’