’  ’ ”   Democratic Sen. Al Franken on Sunday doubled down on a   suggestion that some of his Republican colleagues in the   Senate are concerned about President Donald Trump’s mental   health. ” ’   In an interview on CNN’’s ”State of the Union” on Sunday,   host Jake Tapper asked Franken if he was serious when he   told HBO’’s Bill Maher that some of his Republican colleagues   ”will say [Trump’’s] not right mentally, and then some are   harsher.” ’ ’   ”Yes,” Franken said. ”It’’s not the majority of them. It’’s a few.” ’ ”   The Minnesota senator explained that some Republicans were   puzzled and worried by Trump’s continued insistence  —       —   that millions of people voted illegally   against him in states like California and New Hampshire. The   president asserted last week in a meeting with senators   that thousands of    voters were bused into the state,   resulting in his defeat in the state during the 2016 election, a   claim that he backed with no evidence. ” ’   ”We all have this suspicion that  —   he lies a lot. He says things   that aren’’t true. That’’s the same as lying, I guess,” Franken   said, before noting Trump’’s voter fraud claims. ”’’Three million   to five million people voted illegally. ’’ There was a new one   about people going in from Massachusetts to New Hampshire.” ’ ’   He added: ”That is not the norm for a president of the United   States, or, actually, for a human being.” ’ ” The Trump   administration didn’t back down from the president’s new   voter fraud claims. ” ”   During  ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos   appeared agitated after repeatedly attempting, and failing,   to elicit specific evidence from Trump adviser Stephen Miller to   support the president’s claims. ” ’   ”Just for the record, you have provided absolutely no evidence,”   Stephanopoulos said. ’ ’   ”The White House has provided enormous evidence,” Miller   interjected. ’ ’   He continued: ”George, it is a fact and you will not deny it,   that are massive numbers of   in this country who are   registered to vote. That is a scandal. We should stop the presses   and as a country we should be aghast about the fact that you have   people who have no right to vote in this country registered to   vote, canceling out the franchise of lawful citizens of this   country.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Despite his frequent assurances that he is not interested in   seeking higher office, Franken’s political prospects have    among many   Washington pundits, as he’s emerged as a critic of Trump’s   cabinet nominees and policies. ” ”   Outlets including the Washington Post and the National Journal   last week both    touting the Minnesota   senator’s potential strengths in a hypothetical presidential   matchup with Trump, citing his history as a comedian and appeal   to white voters who backed Trump over Hillary Clinton in the 2016   presidential campaign. ” ”   Other outlets like CBS News and the New Republic suggested   that Franken’s viral grilling of Trump’s cabinet nominees   showed he could be a powerful force in the Democratic party. ” ”   Many Democratic strategists and staffers have  about Franken’s prospects, but   aren’t certain of his intentions. ” ’   It’’s ”way too early,” former Minneapolis Mayor RT Rybak told   Business Insider last week. ”I love Al as my senator, but I   imagine there will be thousand of boomlets in the next couple   years, and about the only thing we should take seriously for the   next year is how to stop Trump and win the midterms.” ’ ’Democratic Sen. Al Franken on Sunday doubled. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’