’  ’ ’   After conducting a nationwide sweep last week, the US   Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency released    on its results. ’ ’   The   sweep, referred to as Operation Cross Check, rounded   up more than 680 people, including many convicted felons. ’ ’ Los Angeles and surrounding areas: ’ ’ Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Kansas, and   Missouri: ’ ’ Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina: ’ ’ New York: ’ ’ San Antonio: ’ ”   According to the ICE  the focus of these sweeps were   consistent with the agency’s daily routine. ICE officials state   that those who are found in violation of federal immigration laws   were evaluated on a case by case basis, and when appropriate,   arrested by ICE officers. ” ’   “ICE conducts these kind of targeted enforcement operations   regularly and has for many years,” said Homeland Security   Secretary John Kelly . “The focus of these   enforcement operations is consistent with the routine, targeted   arrests carried out by ICE’s Fugitive Operations teams on a daily   basis. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   In March 2015, ICE’s National Cross Check operation netted 2, 059   arrests nationwide; and in April 2012, they made 3, 100 arrests. ’ ”   Last week’s operation  as advocacy groups   viewed immigration officers’ actions as a consequence of recent   executive orders on immigration from President Donald Trump. The   sweeps prompted some demonstrations in major cities around the   country and set off rumors that immigration agents were also   using traffic stops and checkpoints as part of the routine   sweeps. ” ’   ICE officials responded, saying “reports of ICE checkpoints and   sweeps are false, dangerous and irresponsible. These reports   create panic and put communities and law enforcement personnel in   unnecessary danger. ” ’ ’   Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly said in a statement on   Monday: “I commend the heroic efforts of the dedicated officers.   These professionals put their lives on the line to protect our   communities and country. ” ’ ’After conducting a nationwide sweep last. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’