’  ’ ’   Dams can be amazing sources of renewable,   energy.   Just build a sturdy wall, let a reservoir naturally fill up with   water, and allow gravity to drive electric generators and power   nearby towns and cities. ’ ’   The US gets  of its energy this way. ’ ”   But as this week’s  illustrates, hydroelectric   energy technology comes with a major yet infrequent risk:   Catastrophic collapse and flooding. ” ’   According to a March 2011  by reporter Phil McKenna at New Scientist, dams   may be among the riskier power sources in the world. The magazine   compiled data from the  the  and  . ’ ’   The analysis calculated the immediate and later deaths that   occurred for every 10   (TWh) of power generated   globally  —   as a point of contrast, the world makes  of electrical power a year. ’ ’   The data give a range of deaths for each type of power, but the   ranking consistently places hydroelectric power as more deadly   than nuclear energy and natural gas: ’ ’  ’ ’   Even accounting for nuclear disasters like Chernobyl, which   caused an estimated 9, 000 cancer deaths,  is one of the safest ways to generate   electricity (contrary to popular belief). ’ ’   Coal appears to be the most deadly because of the deaths it   causes via air pollution. ’ ’   Harvard University risk analyst James Hammitt tells Business   Insider that those deaths are ”highly predictable,” in part   because medical studies have strongly linked airborne pollution   to mortality. ’ ’   ”We have tens of thousands of deaths a year caused by air   pollution, and that’’s not unusual,” Hammitt says. ”But it is   unusual to have deaths from hydroelectric power on any given   year,” due to the rarity of dam collapses without any warning. ’ ”   But there’s a catch. ” ”   When you include the deaths caused by the tragic 1975 collapse of   China’s enormous Banqiao Dam, hydroelectric can be considered one   of the riskiest power sources. ” ’  ’ ’   From 1951 to 1952, China built the giant hydroelectric dam on the   Ruhe River with help from the Soviet Union. But in early August   1975, a unusually wet typhoon moved into the area and broke   records for rainfall, filling up the Banqiao Reservoir and   pushing the limits that engineers designed for the dam. ’ ’   On August 8, 1975, the dam collapsed and sent a wall of water   nearly 20 feet (6 meters) high and 7. 5 miles wide (12 kilometers)   downriver, according to    of a chapter in the book ”” by investigative journalist Dai Qing. ’ ’   The torrent wrecked other dams along the river and killed an   estimated 85, 000 people. When accounting for later deaths caused   by   disease and famine, however, the toll may   actually be closer to  to  people. ’ ’   This devastating outlier pushes the statistical risk of dams   dozens of times higher, to 54. 7 deaths per 10 TWh  —   about 46   times more risk than nuclear power. Business Insider contacted   the National Hydropower Association for comment on the risk that   hydroelectric dams pose in the US, but we did not immediately   receive a response. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Chinese  and incorporated the lessons   learned from the tragedy. ’ ’   While it remains to be seen whether the Oroville Dam will   actually collapse  —   it was stabilizing at the time this story was   published  —   one crucial difference between the two events is that   authorities were able to urge  in that region of California to   evacuate immediately. ’ ’   ”That makes this much less threatening than something like an   earthquake, when you can’’t do anything to evacuate ahead of time   and it just happens,” Hammitt says. ’ ’Dams can be amazing sources of renewable. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’