’  ’ ’   In addition to UN   ambassador Nikki Haley also delivered a . ’ ’   ”We call on all members of the Security Council to use every   available resource to make it clear to the North Korean regime  —     and its enablers  —   that these launches are unacceptable,”   her statement read. ’ ’   ”It is time to hold North Korea accountable  —   not with our words,   but with our actions.” ’ ’   Earlier, US President Donald Trump pledged to deal with Pyongyang   ”very strongly.” ’ ’   North Korea has repeatedly flouted six    Council resolutions demanding an end to its nuclear and ballistic   missile activities and has continued to launch missiles,   escalating tensions on the Korean peninsula and in the region. ’ ’   The missile test,  is seen as an   implicit challenge to Trump, who has vowed a tough line on North   Korea but has yet to release a strategy for dealing with a   country whose nuclear ambitions have bedeviled US leaders for   decades. ’ ’   ”North Korea is a big, big problem and we will deal with that   very strongly,” Trump said at a joint news conference Monday with   Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. ’ ’ S called the launch ”a further troubling violation   of  Council resolutions” and urged North   Korea to comply with its international obligations,    deputy spokesman Farhan Haq said. ’ ’   ”The   appeals to the international community to   continue to address this situation in a united manner,” Haq said. ’ ’   South Korea condemned what it called ”serious military and    threats” and predicted more such tests.   Prime Minister Hwang   who is also the acting president,   said his country would punish North Korea for the missile launch. ’ ’   The United States, Japan and South Korea requested the urgent    Council meeting. ’ ’  ’ ’   In previous  Council actions on North Korea,   the United States and China, a neighbor and ally of Pyongyang,   have been the key negotiators. ’ ’   After previous ballistic missile tests, the    Council has issued a strong condemnation, called for redoubled   efforts to fully implement sanctions, and reiterated the   importance of maintaining peace and stability on the Korean   Peninsula and in northeast Asia. ’ ’   Britain ambassador Rycroft called the latest test ”another   flagrant violation” of council resolutions. ”There should be a   statement unifying the  Council and setting   out clearly the seriousness of the violation,” he said. ’ ’   North Korea already has a variety of   missiles that can   hit South Korea and Japan, including US military bases in those   countries. It has also successfully tested a     missile and development of such missiles would add a weapon that   is harder to detect before launch. ’ ’   ”These are serious military and  threats,”   Jeong   spokesman at South Korea’’s Ministry of   Unification, told reporters. ”Pyongyang has no intention of   backing away from its goal to become a country with nuclear   weapons.” ’ ’  ’ ”   North Korea’s Central News Agency said the country’s leader, Kim   Jong  was at the launch site to observe Sunday’s   test and expressed pleasure at the North’s expansion of its   strategic strike capabilities. ” ’   The report early Monday also said Kim gave the order to fire the   ”” which the agency said was a ”Korean style new   type strategic weapon system.” ’ ’   It is believed to have flown about 500 kilometers (310 miles)   before splashing down into the ocean in international waters. ’ ’   The report said the test proved ”the reliability and   ” of a new mobile launching system, the   solid fuel that was used, and the guidance and control features   of the ballistic missile. Solid fuel can give missiles longer   range and make detecting them before launch more difficult   because they can be readied faster than liquid fuel missiles. ’ ’   It added that Kim ”expressed great satisfaction over the   possession of another powerful nuclear attack means.” ’ ’   Reports of the launch came as Trump was hosting Japanese Prime   Minister Shinzo Abe, who called it ”absolutely intolerable.” ’ ’   China, facing criticism that it is not doing enough to pressure   North Korea to drop its nuclear program, said Monday that the   root cause of North Korean missile launches is friction with the   United States and South Korea. Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng   Shuang said China opposed the launch. ’ ’In addition to all 15 council members. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’