’  ’ ’   This is very simple: The idea that tax cuts ”pay for themselves”   is false. ’ ’   But it is persistent, having been firmly planted in the political   discourse by   economists decades ago and becoming all   the rage during the Reagan administration. ’ ”   And it’s coming back in force with President Donald Trump’s tax   plan. ” ’     economists argue that tax cuts spur economic growth,   and that the growth offsets any increased deficit resulting from   the government taking in less revenue. ’ ”   It didn’t work that way for Ronald Reagan or for George W. Bush   20 years later. ” ”   For all his preaching about fiscal responsibility, The Gipper   presided over an expansion of the federal government and its   increasing budget deficit, barely managed to close loopholes, and   used a trick called dynamic scoring, which accounts for   imagined future revenue to pretend that some growth down the line   will close any gaps created by a budget. (And if that doesn’t   work, it also allows for planners to assume a future Congress   will fix things.) ” ”   It didn’t work for Reagan, and it’s not going to work for Trump. ” ’   Take a look at the chart below. This is the federal budget   deficit as a percent of GDP. The farther that blue line is away   from the black line, the bigger the deficit (relative to the   economy). If tax cuts spurred enough growth to ”pay for   themselves,” the line would rise. It doesn’’t in the period when   Reagan was president, and it doesn’’t when Bush was president. ’ ”   That period where it is above the line? That’s when Bill Clinton   was president. The shaded areas where it dives are recessions. ” ’  ’ ”   Trump’s and House Republicans’ plans look similar, except Trump’s   plan cuts taxes more aggressively. Each calls for an overhaul of   the corporate system and wants to: ” ’   The Tax Foundation, a conservative think tank, estimates this   would add up to $3. 9 trillion to the federal deficit over the   next 10 years. That estimate includes the benefit of dynamic   scoring. ’ ”   Analysts at Bank of America wrote in a recent note that they   think a tax proposal written by House Republicans is more likely   to pass. According to the Tax Foundation, it’s revenue neutral  —     also using dynamic scoring  —   even though it also cuts the   corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%. ” ”   Bank of America’s analysts aren’t convinced this would lead to   economic growth, and that is partly because of how the Tax   Foundation does its calculations. ” ’   Under this plan, companies can immediately expense, rather than   gradually deduct, depreciation for all capital spending. The Tax   Foundation thinks that would make businesses want to invest,   ultimately adding 9. 1% to GDP. ’ ’   Bank of America was not impressed with this logic: ’ ”   With the House plan, we’re likely to see this same effect, but   this all may happen more slowly than anyone initially thought.   Analysts think Washington could be busy doing other things  —   like   repealing the Affordable Care Act  —   until 2018, leaving investors   hungry for reform waiting. ” ”   And the more that Republicans squabble over the tax plan, the   less likely infrastructure spending seems.  and it seems, per Bank of America’s   analysis, that Wall Street is coming around to that, too. ” ’This is very simple: The idea that tax cuts. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’