’  ’ ”   Scott Pruitt, President Donald Trump’s pick to lead the   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Attorney General of   Oklahoma, has spent two years avoiding requests to release more   than 3, 000 emails between his office and fossil fuel companies. ” ”   On Thursday, one day before the Senate is due to vote on Pruitt’s   confirmation, an Oklahoma judge ordered their release.  ” ”   Pruitt’s office now has to turn the emails over to the plaintiffs   in a lawsuit or to the court, thanks to Judge Aletia Haynes   Timmons’ ruling. The office has until Tuesday to comply. At that   point, barring any surprise votes or changes in Senate schedule,   Pruitt will likely have already been confirmed as EPA   administrator. ” ”   Here’s how things got to this point: ” ’   More than a dozen ”open records requests” seeking the emails had   been filed in Oklahoma, dating back to January 2015, but Pruitt   and his office did not respond to them. ’ ’   A lawsuit filed February 7, 2017 by The Center for Media and   Democracy, represented by the American Civil Liberties Union,   sought to force Pruitt to  alleging that withholding them violated   state law. On Thursday, the judge sided with the plaintiffs. ’ ’   Critics see Pruitt, a longtime opponent of  as an . ’ ’   Those alleged alliances have been at the center of a contentious   confirmation debate in the Senate, which is . ’ ”   Elizabeth Warren, the Democratic Senator from Massachussets,   criticized her Republican colleagues on Twitter for moving   forward on the confirmation vote before the emails’ release: ” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tA few hours ago, a judge in OK ordered the release of thousands of emails on  nominee Scott Pruitt’s relationship with Big Oil. ’t’t” ’ ’t’t’tThose emails might show corruption   so of course Republicans are jamming his confirmation through 4 days before the emails become public. ’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tIn the choice between corporate polluters & people who want to breathe the air & drink the water, Scott Pruitt sides with the polluters. ’t’t’ ’     ’ ”Scott Pruitt, President Donald Trump’s pick to. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’