’  ’ ”   Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn told the FBI in an   interview last month that he did not speak to Russia’s ambassador   to the US, Sergey  about   sanctions,  on Thursday. ” ’   That may put him in legal jeopardy now that Flynn has admitted   that while he ”cannot recall” exactly what he   and discussed during their calls   in December, the issue of US sanctions on Russia may have been   touched upon after all. ’ ’   It is unclear whether a Justice Department led by Jeff   Sessions will move to charge Flynn with perjury, however. ’ ’   The FBI interviewed Flynn about the calls, which were intercepted   by US intelligence agents, two days before  ’ ’    ’ ’   President Donald Trump said in a press conference Thursday that   Flynn was ”just doing his job,” however, when   he called  in December. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I don’’t think he did anything wrong  —   if anything, he was doing   something right,” Trump said. ”He didn’’t just call Russia, he   called, and spoke to both ways, I think,   countries. He was   just doing his job.” ’ ’      ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   Trump on Thursday criticized the press for publishing   ”classified” information, though the reports never specified   whether the sources came from within the intelligence community. ’ ’   ’ ’   Trump insisted on Thursday, however, that the only reason he   asked for Flynn’’s resignation is because he ”didn’’t tell our Vice   President properly and then he said he didn’’t remember, so either   way that wasn’’t very satisfactory to me.” ’ ’   Vice President Mike Pence was reportedly ”incensed” at Flynn for   misleading him about the calls,  on Monday. Pence had   defended Flynn in an interview with CBS on January 15, saying   Flynn ”didn’’t discuss anything having to do with the United   States’’ decision to expel diplomats or impose censure against   Russia.” ’ ”   Pence wasn’t informed of the investigation into Flynn’s   communication with the ambassador until February 9, weeks after   Yates first briefed  ” ’   “For the vice president, I feel terrible,” Flynn told the Daily   Caller. ”I put him in a [bad] position. He’s a man of incredible   integrity. I think the world of him. .. ’ ’Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’