’  ’ ’   China’’s military is fast approaching ”near parity” with western   nations,  from the International   Institute for Strategic Studies. ’ ’   In its 2017 Military Balance report, which focuses on global   military capabilities and defense spending, IISS experts say that   China has made significant progress in research and development   and improved its military capabilities, putting it close to on   par with the US and other allies. ’ ’   ”Western military technological superiority, once taken for   granted, is increasingly challenged,” Dr. John Chipman,     and Chief Executive of IISS, said in a   statement. ”We now judge that in some capability areas,   particularly in the air domain, China appears to be reaching     with the West.” ’ ’   Instead of its usual practice of working on systems that imitate   Soviet and Russian technology, China has shifted its efforts (and   budget) to domestic research and development. Its Navy is   currently working on three new advanced cruisers, 13 destroyers,   and outfitting other ships with better radar. ’ ”   But China’s efforts on new aircraft have been the most   effective. ” ’  ’ ’   China has its own s, helped in   part by  of the   and      seems to lack many of the   capabilities of its US counterparts. But Beijing has made up for   that in the development of a      missile that    ’ ’   ”Seen on exercise last year and estimated at     meters in length, this developmental missile likely has the   task of engaging large   and   targets,”   Chapman said. ”With a lofted trajectory, an engagement range   around 300 kilometers would appear feasible.” ’ ’   That long range makes that kind of missile particularly deadly to   aircraft that supports short range fighters, such as aerial   tankers and AWACS, which provide an airborne radar platform. ’ ’   Interestingly, the report notes, China’’s progress is ”now   the single most important driver for US defense developments.” ’ ’China’’s military is fast approaching ”near. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’