’Even   iPhone fans have to admit that the AMOLED displays on other phones, particularly those from Samsung, look better than the LCD screens on iPhones.’ ”But if the rumors are true, iPhone fans may no longer need to make that admission, as Apple is reportedly looking to use a form of OLED display on the next iPhone. Just prepare your wallet, because OLED isn’t cheap.” ”But that’s just one of the rumors we’re hearing. Check out all the latest scuttlebutt surrounding Apple’s next iPhone.” ”A Barclay’s report  said Apple would skip the S model this year, which has historically followed each new phone version. The report claimed Apple would instead jump directly from the iPhone 7 to the iPhone 8  —   possibly called the iPhone 10  —   in 2017.” ’Now, however, it appears  of the iPhone 7 next year with updates to the processor and a new red color option, according to Apple analyst   Kuo and the Japanese Apple blog MacOtakara, which are both highly reliable sources.’ ’Another Barclays report from November claimed that Apple is cooking up  than the usual 4.  and 5.  screens on the current iPhone 7 and 7 Plus.’ ’Specifically, the analysts say the new screens will measure 5 inches and 5. 8 inches.’ ”That said, the report doesn’t specify that the new screen sizes are for S models of the iPhone 7 line. However, considering the rumor contains details on two new screen sizes, and the premium iPhone 8 is rumored to only be sold in one size, we could deduce that the Barclays report is referring to two S models.” ’A  predicted that Apple would release a ” ” iPhone with a larger 5.  screen compared with the iPhone 7 Plus’’s 5.  screen.’ ’Yet more recent reports and rumors claim the premium iPhone 8 will have a  that will wrap around the edges of the device. It sounds like a similar design concept as the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge.’ ”Since 2017 marks the iPhone’s 10th anniversary, it wouldn’t be surprising if Apple does something special to mark the anniversary of its most important product.” ’Rumors that the iPhone 8 would have an   front surface emerged from John Gruber, the   Apple blogger and podcaster from .’ ”Gruber says he has heard  that the iPhone 8’s front won’t have any bezels or borders, and that it’ll be one large display.” ’KGI Securities analyst   Kuo claims the . If so, it could have a similar aesthetic as the iPhone 4 and 4S, both of which had a glass back.’ ’A report from the Japanese news site  says Apple is indeed ditching the metal back design for an   back and metal frame.’ ’In January 2017, the KGI Securities analyst   Kuo claimed ’ ”Previous rumors that support Kuo’s prediction include John Gruber’s claims. He says the home button, which also houses the fingerprint sensor, will be  making it invisible.” ”Gruber’s claims line up nicely with rumors posted by the tech site  that a future iPhone will have an embedded home button.” ’Recently, the Chinese tech giant Xiaomi released new phones with the  in a patent for alternative home buttons, which could give us an idea of how a future home button on the iPhone 8 could work.’ ’This could be one of the most popular rumors about the ’ ’’ ’Previously, rumors from  suggested the   iPhone would have an AMOLED display, even though the other iPhones released in 2017 are expected to have LCD displays, like past iPhone models.’ ”OLED displays are superior to LCD displays, which are currently used on the iPhone 7, in almost every way. They’re more power efficient, produce better colors, better contrast, and better brightness. ” ’ ’ ’ ’ ”A Barclay’s report summarized by  said the iPhone 8 will have wireless charging. In general, we know that Apple is looking into the technology because of a  filed on September 9.” ’In addition, Sharp president  mentioned to university students that the next iPhone will .’ ”In February 2017, an Apple spokesperson told  that the company recently joined the Wireless  that Apple will add wireless charging to its upcoming iPhones, but it’s a pretty good hint that Apple is very interested in expanding its wireless power technology beyond the Apple Watch.” ”This one is easy. Since the iPhone 7 doesn’t have a headphone jack, we can expect future iPhones won’t feature a headphone jack either.” ’’ ’Kuo believes the   camera will remain an exclusive feature for the larger iPhone models from 2017 onward.’ ”There might have been a glimmer of hope that the   camera would make its way to the smaller iPhone model, as the optical image stabilization that was exclusive to the iPhone 6S Plus trickled its way down to the regular iPhone 7. But if Kuo’s predictions are true, this will not be the case. So, don’t expect a   camera in the smaller iPhone 7S; expect it in the larger iPhone 7S Plus, and in the iPhone 8.” ’’ ’Even   iPhone fans have to admit that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’