’  ’ ’   On Wednesday,   CEO Andy   Puzder   his name ’ ”   Puzder’s personal life likely played a role in his decision   to withdraw, as the   ” ’   However, the first and biggest strike against Puzder was   identical to the top reason that Trump nominated him for the   job: the fact that he is a   CEO.  ’ ’   While the Trump considered Puzder’’s role as a ”job creator”   to be a major plus for the secretary of labor, Puzder’’s   position as CEO of CKE Restaurants, the parent company of Carl’’s   Jr and Hardee’’s, dragged the White House into a raging labor   battle. Ultimately, neither Puzder nor the White House was   prepared to defeat the   labor movement, which   tore apart the nominee on the same restaurant industry   battlegrounds they’’d been fighting for years.  ’ ”   Prime among these is the issue of minimum wage. Raising the   minimum wage has become the most prominent issue in the movement   for   workers’ rights, and the one that   organizers have found the most success, as states and cities   across the US have grown closer to the goal of a $15 per   hour wage. The movement to raise the minimum wage has become   increasingly popular, with ” ’   While Puzder told CNBC in May that increasing minimum wage to $9   per hour would have a ”minimal impact” on companies’’ bottom   lines, the CEO has a history of opposing laws that would raise   workers’’ pay. Puzder’’s critics  —   including groups that have years   of experience working to raise minimum wages across the US  —     cited this history again and again in argument as to why Puzder   wasn’’t fit for the role of labor secretary.  ’ ’   Puzder, meanwhile, argues regulation that would increase minimum   wage would simply result in workers being replaced with   automation. ’ ’   ”They’’re always polite, they always upsell, they never take a   vacation, they never show up late, there’’s never a      or an age, sex, or race discrimination case,” Puzder  on the potential upside   of swapping employees for machines. ’ ’ ’ ”   Puzder’s interest in automation  —   an issue that most     companies are at least considering in 2017  —     became a major argument against his confirmation, as   protestors used his own words against him.  ” ’   ”Andy Puzder is against unions, calls the minimum wage and   overtime ’’restrictions’’ and employees ’’extra cost,’’ and even said   he wants to fire workers like us and replace us with machines   that can’’t take vacation or sue their employers when they break   the law,” the nonprofit Interfaith Worker Justice  a Carl’’s Jr. cook, as saying. ’ ”   Puzder also spoke out against Obamacare and overtime pay. In   essence, as CKE’s CEO, he had already gone on the record opposing   regulation that groups like the Fight for $15 and the National   Employment Law Project (NELP) have fought to pass and protect. ” ”   With his nomination, organizations fighting for     workers’ rights went from seeing Puzder as the opponent as an   employer, to seeing him as the enemy as a potential Secretary of   Labor  —   the person tasked with protecting workers’ rights.  ” ’  ’ ”   As labor organizations and Democrats rallied against Puzder, they   moved beyond his own statements as a   CEO and began to   look at Carl’s Jr and Hardee’s business practices for evidence   that he was unfit for the role.   —   all things that are common   problems in the industry.  ” ’h’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ”   Ultimately, opponents framed Puzder as the embodiment of all   that needs to be fixed in the   industry. And, it worked    —   on Wednesday, prior to Puzder’s withdrawal,  ” ”   Groups like Fight for $15 and the NELP’s organized opposition to   Puzder since the day he was nominated wasn’t a fluke. It was   a result of years of effort and working with     employees, the press, and politicians. Following news of Puzder’s   defeat,   workers and organizations were happy to   claim the victory.  ” ’   ”We rallied outside Puzder’s stores nationwide and showed America   how his burger empire was built on low pay, wage theft, sexual   harassment and intimidation. And today, we are on the right side   of history,” Darin Brooks, a Hardee’s worker and a member of a   Fight for $15 chapter in Durham, North Carolina, said in a   statement. ”This is a major victory for the Fight for $15, but we   can’t and won’t back down until the Trump Administration gives us   a real labor secretary who will put working people over corporate   profits.” ’ ”   Trump’s new nomination for labor secretary, Alexander Acosta,   will likely face opposition from the left as he awaits his   confirmation hearing. However, the passion, organization, and   vitriol Puzder inspired as a symbol of the   industry   will be lacking when it comes to actually fighting the   attorney’s nomination.   ” ’On Wednesday,   CEO Andy. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’