’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump just named Army Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster   . ’ ”   The    Army officer is the epitome of the     and he’s as well known for his heroics in battle   as he is for his intellectual pursuits. ” ”   Though former national security adviser Michael Flynn was   rather controversial  —   the retired general peddled conspiracy   theories and ultimately resigned because of his ties to   Russia  —   I don’t suspect anything other than professionalism   and solid advice being given to the president by McMaster. ” ”   Here’s why. ” ”   Much like Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who was revered by his   troops while serving as a general in the Marine Corps, McMaster   has earned a great deal of respect from soldiers. That’s   because his career has been marked by personal heroism, excellent   leadership, and his tendency to buck traditional ways of   thinking. ” ’’ ”   As a captain during the Gulf War in 1991, McMaster made a name   for himself during the . Though his tank unit   was vastly outnumbered by the Iraqi Republican Guard, he   didn’t lose a single tank in the engagement, while the Iraqis   lost nearly 80. His valor and leadership that day earned him the   Silver Star, the   award for bravery. ” ’   Then there was his leadership during the Iraq War, during   which he was one of the first commanders to use   counterinsurgency tactics. Before President George W. Bush   authorized a troop ”surge” that pushed US forces to protect the   population and win over Iraqi civilians, it was McMaster who   demonstrated it could work  ’ ”   McMaster is the kind of guy who says what’s on his mind and will   call out a wrongheaded approach when he sees one. That tendency   is something that junior officers love, but those maverick ways   are not   by some of his fellow generals. Put   simply: McMaster isn’t a political guy, unlike other officers who   are trying to jockey for position and move up in their careers. ” ”   In 2003,  McMaster criticized     Secretary Donald Rumsfeld’s Iraq War plan that placed   too much of an emphasis on technology. McMaster also pushed back   on his boss’ refusal to admit an insurgency was starting to take   hold in 2004. ” ”   He’s been held back in his career because of it  —   he was passed    for his first star  —   but it   wasn’t due to incompetence. Instead, his fight to be promoted   from colonel to brigadier general was seen as pure politics, and   McMaster doesn’t like to play. He was eventually promoted in   2008, but that hasn’t made him any less outspoken. ” ’   McMaster has a lot in common with another famous general: David   Petraeus.  ’ ’   In fact, he was one of a select few officers that were in the   Petraeus ”” during the Iraq War. ’ ’   McMaster is an expert on military strategy, counterinsurgency,   and history. And he, like Petraeus, stands out among military   officers, since both earned advanced degrees. McMaster   holds a Ph. D. in history from the University of North   Carolina, where his dissertation went far beyond the   readership of just a few professors. ’ ’   Titled ”,” McMaster’’s dissertation   became an authoritative book on how the United States became   involved in the Vietnam War. Much of the book’’s focus is on the   Joint Chiefs of Staff, who were heaped with criticism for failing   to push back against President Lyndon B. Johnson. ’ ’   ” ’ ”   Whether McMaster can transition well from the Army to the White   House is the big question now, but he’s one of the best   people Trump could have picked. And like Mattis, he’s not   afraid to challenge the president’s views. ” ’  ’ ”   That’s exactly the kind of person Trump needs. ” ’President Donald Trump just named Army Lt. Gen. ...’ ’’ ’’ ’’