’  ’ ’   The Sacramento Kings and New Orleans Pelicans have reportedly   agreed to . ’ ’   The Kings will also send Omri Casspi to the Pelicans in exchange   for Tyreke Evans, Langston Galloway, Buddy Hield, a 2017     draft pick, and 2017   draft pick. ’ ’   The move has baffled the NBA world, as the Pelicans have   been resoundingly declared the winners of the trade while   the Kings have squandered their biggest and best asset. ’ ”   The biggest return for the Kings is the 2017   pick.   It’s   protected, but the Pelicans will likely challenge   for a playoff spot, meaning the Kings will get the pick. With the   Kings also likely to go into     that could   give them two lottery picks in what’s considered a deep and   talented draft class. ” ”   However, the Kings’ grasp on their own pick is tenuous, thanks to   an unwise salary dump trade they made two years ago. In 2015, the   Kings sent Nik Stauskas to the Philadelphia 76ers that included   the rights to swap 2017 draft picks. Since they are likely to   lose many games without Cousins, there’s a strong chance it will   land in the top 10. The 76ers are competitive this season, so if   the Kings’ pick is higher up in the draft, the 76ers will swap,   moving the Kings down. ” ’   And if the Pelicans make the playoffs  —   a possibility with both   Anthony Davis and Cousins in hand  —   then the Kings will get a   pick outside the lottery. ’ ”   Then there’s the matter of the rest of the package. Evans is a   talented but   guard who left the Kings for the   Pelicans in a    in 2013. He’s a free agent this   offseason and will likely leave the team again. Galloway is a     guard, but there have been reports that the Kings   may waive him. ” ’   Hield is presumably one of the centerpieces of the deal. However,   despite being a rookie, Hield is already 23 years old and has had   an inconsistent rookie season, shooting just 39% from the field   and 37% from   range. The Kings reportedly view him as a     pick. (He was selected sixth by the Pelicans last year.) ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tKings view Buddy Hield as a top 5 pick, per source. In their eyes they received a top 5 talent and a top 10 pick, if Pelicans stay mediocre. ’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tThere were objectively better deals available for the Kings, but since they think so highly of Buddy Hield, that’s the direction they went. ’t’t” ”   So, the Kings’ total package for Cousins may be a     rental of Evans, Hield, a   or       pick from the Pelicans, and a     pick. ” ’ the Pelicans offered a similar   package, minus Hield, to the 76ers for Jahlil Okafor, a big man   who rarely cracks the rotation with Joel Embiid and Nerlens Noel   healthy. The 76ers turned it down. ’ ’   The Pistons also offered Andre Drummond, a legitimate starting   center that could be part of a solid foundation, for Cousins. The   Kings turned it down. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tPistons attempted a deal with Andre Drummond to the Kings for DeMarcus Cousins. Kings said no. (Via Michael Scotto   Basketball Insiders)’t’t’ ’   In turn, the NBA world crucified the Kings. ’ ’ in a post titled, ”Just What The   Hell Were The Kings Thinking? ”: ’ ’ gave the Kings an F for   the trade, writing: ’ ’: ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMe to a NBA front office guy   ”I don’’t get the Kings. ”NBA front office guy   ”No one does. ”’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tBig trade win for Philly tonight. ’t’t’ ” ’t’t’tThe Kings basically just traded DeMarcus Cousins for a statistical copy of Nik Stauskas, the guy they dumped in 2015 with a ’18  .  ” ” that the trade market for   Cousins may not have been robust. Teams are wary of Cousins’   temper, which has soiled past Kings teams, and his impending free   agency. ” ”   Still, the Kings ended up taking an offer for a legitimate     center that was barely acceptable for the 76ers’ Okafor.   In a   landscape, the Kings will have to rely on   drafting well and developing players, something they haven’t been   able to do since drafting Cousins in 2010. ” ’The Sacramento Kings and New Orleans Pelicans. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’