’  ’ ’   (Reuters)  —   The White House on Tuesday signaled it was preparing   to reverse a U. S. policy on transgender rights, raising concern   among rights advocates that Republican President Donald Trump is   about to revoke a signature initiative of his predecessor. ’ ”   Former Democratic President Barack Obama’s administration issued   guidance to public schools last May to allow transgender students   to use bathrooms matching their gender identity, a move   transgender people hailed as a civil rights victory. ” ’   Asked at a news briefing about concerns the government would   reverse the guidance, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer   said Trump believed the matter was an issue for the states to   decide, which is contrary to the Obama stance. ’ ’   ”All you have to do is look at what the president’’s view has been   for a long time, that this is not something that the federal   government should be involved in, that this is a states’’ rights   issue,” Spicer said, adding that the Justice and Education   departments would have ”further guidance” at an unspecified time. ’ ’   Legal advocates for transgender people say federal law and the   civil rights of Americans are legally enforced by the federal   government, as was born out during the civil rights movement of   the 1960s that led to legal equality for  . ’ ’’ ’   ”Enforcement of federal civil rights law is not a states’’ rights   issue. Full stop,” said Rachel Tiven, chief executive of Lambda   Legal, which defends lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender   (LGBT) people. ’ ”   The federal law in question, known as Title IX, bans sex   discrimination in education. But it remains unsettled whether   Title IX protections extend to a person’s gender identity. The   U. S. Supreme Court could settle the issue in a case due to be   argued in March. ” ”   Thirteen states led by Texas used a states’ rights defense in a   lawsuit against the Obama administration over its     guidance. That lawsuit would be rendered   moot if Trump to were to reverse the Obama policy. ” ’   (Reporting by Daniel Trotta; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) ’ ’(Reuters)  —   The White House on Tuesday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’