’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   A draft of President Donald Trump’s revised   immigration ban targets the same seven countries listed in his   original executive order and exempts travelers who already have a   visa to travel to the U. S. even if they haven’t used it yet. ” ’   A senior administration official said the order, which Trump   revised after federal courts held up his original immigration and   refugee ban, will target only those same seven     countries  —   Iran, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Sudan and Libya. ’ ’   The official said that   holders and dual citizens of   the U. S. and any of those countries are exempt. The new draft   also no longer directs authorities to single out  —   and reject  —     Syrian refugees when processing new visa applications. ’ ”   The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the order   before it’s made public. The official noted that the draft is   subject to change ahead of its signing, which Trump said could   come sometime this week. ” ’   Asked about the revised order, White House spokeswoman Sarah   Huckabee Sanders said the document circulating was a draft and   that a final version should be released soon. The Department of   Homeland Security did not immediately respond to a request for   comment. ’ ’   The Wall Street Journal also reported that the current draft of   the revised order focused on the seven countries but excluded   those with green cards. ’ ”   Trump’s original executive order triggered chaos at airports   around the world, as travelers were detained when the order   rapidly went into effect, and U. S. permanent residents known as     holders were among them. Attorneys provided legal   assistance to those held and protesters descended on the airports   as news of the order’s implementation spread. In its original   form, the order temporarily suspended all travel to the U. S. for   citizens of those seven   countries for 90 days. ” ”   The original order also called for Homeland Security and State   department officials, along with the director of national   intelligence, to review what information the government needs to   fully vet   visitors and come up with a list of countries   that can’t or won’t make the information available. It said the   government will give countries 60 days to start providing the   information or citizens from those countries will be barred from   traveling to the United States. ” ”   Even if Syrian refugees are no longer automatically rejected   under the new order, the pace of refugees entering the U. S. from   all countries is likely to slow significantly. That’s because   even when the courts put Trump’s original ban on hold, they left   untouched Trump’s    refugee cap, a cut of more than   half from the cap under the Obama administration. ” ”   The U. S. has already taken in more than 35, 000 refugees this   year, leaving less than 15, 000 spots before hitting Trump’s cap,   according to a U. S. official. That means that for the rest of   this fiscal year, the number of refugees being let in per week   will likely fall to a fraction of what it had been under the   Obama administration’s cap of 110, 000. ” ’   Earlier this month, the 9th U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San   Francisco refused to reinstate Trump’’s ban, unanimously rejecting   the administration’’s claim of presidential authority, questioning   its motives and concluding that the order was unlikely to survive   legal challenges. The pushback prompted Trump to tweet ”SEE YOU   IN COURT!” and he has since lashed out at the judicial branch,   accusing it of issuing a politically motivated decision. ’ ’  ’ ’   Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly said Saturday that Trump   is working on a ”streamlined” version of his executive order   banning travel from the seven nations to iron out the   difficulties that landed his first order in the courts. ’ ’   Speaking at the Munich Security Conference about combating   terrorism, Kelly said Trump’’s original order was designed as a   ”temporary pause” to allow him to ”see where our immigration and   vetting system has gaps  —   and gaps it has  —   that could be   exploited.” ’ ’   He said the Trump administration was surprised when U. S. courts   blocked the executive order and now ”the president is   contemplating releasing a tighter, more streamlined version” of   the travel ban. ’ ’   Kelly said this next time he will be able to ”make sure that   there’’s no one caught in the system of moving from overseas to   our airports.” ’ ’   Kelly mentioned ”seven nations” again on Saturday, leading to   speculation they will all be included in Trump’’s next executive   order. ’ ”   Trump’s order sparked an immediate backlash and sowed chaos and   outrage, with travelers detained at airports, panicked families   searching for relatives and protesters marching against the   sweeping measure  —   parts of which were blocked by several federal   courts. ” ’   Protests were held across the country, including in sight of the   Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island in New York City, and at   international airports where travelers were temporarily detained. ’ ’   ___ ’ ’   Associated Press writer Josh Lederman contributed to this report. ’ ”WASHINGTON (AP)  —   A draft of President Donald Trump’s revised immigration ban targets the same seven countries listed in his original executive order and exempts travelers who already have a visa to travel to the U. S. even if they haven’t used it yet.” ’’ ’’ ’’