’  ’ ’   The NBA trade deadline is fast approaching, and already two major   deals have shaken up both the Eastern and Western conferences. ’ ”   First, the Toronto Raptors traded Terrence Ross and their 2017     pick to the Orlando Magic for Serge Ibaka. Even if   Ibaka is Toronto’s only addition before Thursday, he still helps   make them more dangerous come the playoffs. ” ”   Then the New Orleans Pelicans traded for DeMarcus Cousins in what   is being viewed as a wildly lopsided deal. The Sacramento Kings   received Buddy Hield, Langston Galloway, Tyreke Evans, plus a   2017   pick and   (via Philadelphia) for   perhaps the most dominant big man in the league. The Pelicans now   have an intriguing frontcourt duo of Cousins and Anthony Davis,   and they’re only a few games out of the playoffs. ” ”   Along with these two trades, rumors are swirling about more   potential deals. Below, we’ve compiled the latest rumblings. ” ’ the Timberwolves have   inquired about a potential    deal. Rose, of course,   played the bulk of his career with Wolves coach Tom Thibodeau in   Chicago, where he won MVP. Rose is also on an expiring contract,   while Rubio is on the books for the next three seasons. Getting   rid of Rubio  —   which the Wolves are  keen on doing  —   would help clear up some     space for Minnesota. ’ ’’ ”   The Knicks, meanwhile, are taking calls about Rose, who  this summer, according to ESPN. If the   Knicks believe he won’t   next season  —   or if they decide   they don’t want him  —   it would be in their best interest to trade   him for something before he leaves and they get nothing. ” ’   In other Knicks news, Carmelo Anthony . (The Celtics did,   however, follow him on Instagram, which  on Monday night.) ’ ’ the Pacers are ready to   trade their 2017   pick for a veteran to help Paul   George. Several outlets have reported that teams  —   notably the   Celtics  —   have called about George, but the Pacers reportedly   have no interest in dealing him. Instead, they are hoping to   bring an ”” into the fold. ’ ’   After the Kings traded Cousins to the Pelicans for very little,   the NBA world was quick to say that the deal meant the     Celtics must not have wanted Cousins. Otherwise, the thinking   went, they could have offered a more enticing package to   Sacramento. ’ ”   Instead, it seems the Celtics have a stronger interest in Butler.   That said,  that it seems   unlikely that a deal for Butler would get done between now and   Thursday. The Celtics would likely have to give up a ton of their   pieces  —   rookie Jaylen Brown, Marcus Smart, the 2017 Nets pick,   which could turn into the top pick in this year’s strong draft  —     to get the Bulls to bite. Even then, adding Butler might still   not be enough to make the Celtics the favorite to win the East. ” ”   With each passing day, Boston’s war chest becomes slightly less   powerful, Lowe says. Who knows what they’ll do, but for now the   best bet might be keeping all their draft picks. ” ’   The Wizards have been   and now they are apparently trying   to make a move to bolster their bench. This would help during the   playoffs, and the name repeatedly linked to the team is . Another is . ’ ”   The Raptors, meanwhile, have a slew of young big men that   President Masai Ujiri could dangle in exchange for some help on   the wing.  the Raptors could make another   move. Ujiri said he’s still holding his phone. ” ”   According to  both the Thunder and the Clippers are in   hot pursuit of Denver’s Wilson Chandler. ” ”   For the Thunder, Chandler would provide some   scoring   to a team that already relies too heavily on Russell Westbrook   and just lost Enes Kanter, who broke his hand punching a chair on   the bench. (It’s that same thinking that also has the Thunder   interested in Sacramento’s Rudy Gay, according to Wojnarowski.) ” ”   The Clippers, meanwhile, are once again dealing with injuries and   are slightly below the West’s top tier. ” ’   Okafor missed a couple of games for the 76ers because it looked   likely he would be traded, and although reports said the Sixers   and Trail Blazers  Okafor remains in Philly  —     for now. ’ ’The NBA trade deadline is fast approaching, and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’