’’ ’The election of Donald Trump has had reverberations around corporate America.’ ’The president has a profound influence on the way companies do business and their bottom line. He is also prone to mentioning specific companies in Tweets and campaign speeches, sending share prices up or down in the process.’ ’We used ’ ”Scroll through below to see what senior executives at companies across various industries are saying about the president’s stance on trade, taxes, and array of other issues.” ”In response to a question asked at a  on February 16 about whether  would increase production in the US, Chuck Robbins, Cisco’s CEO, said:” ’’ ’’ ”During an earnings call on February 7, ’ CFO, Chuck Stevens, commented on Trump’s tax proposals. ” ’’ ”During an earnings call on January 31,  CEO was asked about the firm’s position on President Trump’s desire to get prescription drug prices down. ” ’’ ’ ’ ’During an earnings call on January 31 the chairman and CEO of  David Abney, defended Trump stance on trade:’ ”The CEO and chairman of oil giant  John Watson, told investors dhat he was pleased with Trump’s   agenda.” ’ ’ ”During an earnings call on February 2 Mark Thompson, the president and CEO at New York Times Company, said the controversy surrounding the new administration was benefiting the firm’s flagship publication.” ’During an earnings call on January 26, the chairman and CEO of  commented on his role in the new administration and said the new administration would be a tailwind for growth.’ ’ ’ ’Nick Akins of said his company will ”prosper” under the new administration during an earnings call on January 27.’ ’’ ”Steve Rusckowski, the chairman, president and CEO of  told analysts during an earnings call on January 26 that Trump’s tax proposals would be very beneficial for his firm. ” ’ ’ ”During an earnings call on February 15, the New York division president of  David Greenbaum, said Trump will be good for New York’s real estate market.” ’’ ’During an earnings call on February 10 an analyst asked Yum! Brand CEO Greg Creed if his firm had ”’ ’ in any country so far. ”’ ’The election of Donald Trump has had. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’