’  ’ ’   Google and Uber started off as friends, then became competitors,   and are now adversaries in a bitter legal fight to control the   future of transportation. ’ ’   In an explosive lawsuit filed on Thursday, the Google      group, now known as Waymo, accused Uber of using   stolen technology to advance its own   development. ’ ’   The  filed in the US District Court in San   Francisco, claims that a team of   engineers stole the   company’’s design for the ”lidar” laser sensor that allows     cars to map the environment around them. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We believe these actions were part of a concerted plan to steal   Waymo’s trade secrets and intellectual property,” said Waymo, a   subsidiary of Google’’s parent company, Alphabet. ’ ’   The suit marks the latest escalation in the increasingly   antagonistic relationship between the two tech giants and   reflects the big stakes involved in    technology,   which threatens to upend the $70 billion US automotive industry. ’ ’   ”We take the allegations made against Otto and Uber employees   seriously and we will review this matter carefully,” Uber wrote   in a statement to Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Waymo alleges that Levandowski ”downloaded over 14, 000 highly   confidential and proprietary design files for Waymo’s various   hardware systems, including designs of Waymo’s LiDAR and circuit   board” six weeks before resigning from Google.  ’ ”   Levandowski installed specialized software on his company laptop   to gain access to Waymo’s design server, Waymo alleges in the     lawsuit. He then downloaded 9. 7 GB of highly confidential   files and trade secrets that included blueprints, design files,   and testing documentation, the suit alleges. ” ’   Waymo said in the suit that it had learned of the theft after it   was inadvertently copied on an email that included machine   drawings of what appeared to be Uber’’s lidar circuit board that   ”bears a striking resemblance” to Waymo’’s own designs. ’ ’   Waymo also claims that former employees now working at Uber and   Otto downloaded ”additional highly confidential information”   related to its lidar system, including supplier lists,   manufacturing details, and statements of work with highly   technical information.  ’ ”   Google’s    prototypes used   laser   sensors made by Velodyne for years. But the company  in early January that it was   building its own lidar system   which allowed it to   reduce the price of the notoriously expensive system by 90%. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Google Ventures invested $250 million in Uber in 2013, when the     service was still in its early years. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Google and Uber started off as friends, then. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’