’  ’ ”   The FBI reportedly rejected a White House request to debunk   stories about alleged communications between Russian operatives   and people within President Donald Trump’s inner circle,  on Thursday evening. ” ’   Trump administration officials wanted the FBI to disavow the   reports and say that there was no contact between people   associated with Trump and Russia, the network said, citing   multiple US officials familiar with the discussions. ’ ’   According to one unnamed   official, the   conversations began with White House chief of staff Reince   Priebus and FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe one day after the   stories were published. FBI director James Comey reportedly   barred the agency from weighing in on media reports, CNN said,   citing its sources. ’ ’   White House officials denied suggestions that it tried to goad   the FBI into debunking news reports, CNN said. Additionally, the   Trump administration has forcefully rejected allegations of   contact with the Kremlin  —   and  for using   anonymous sources in their reporting. ’ ’   A bombshell report from The New York Times and CNN last week   asserted that during the US election, the Trump campaign . ’ ’   Citing US   and intelligence agencies, The Times   said in its report that the contact between Trump associates and   Russian officials was discovered during a concurrent FBI   investigation into cyberattacks the US has said Russia carried   out targeting Hillary Clinton and the Democratic National   Committee. ’ ’  ’ ”   Paul Manafort, a former campaign manager to Trump who was also an   adviser to a   political party in Ukraine, was the only   American named in The Times’ report on February 14. In an   interview with the newspaper, Manafort denied knowingly talking   to Russian intelligence officials on behalf of the Trump   campaign. ” ’   ”I have never been involved with anything to do with the Russian   government or the Putin administration or any other issues under   investigation today,” Manafort told the newspaper. ’ ’  ’ ’   He added: ”It’’s not like these people wear badges that say, ’’I’’m   a Russian intelligence officer. ’’” ’ ”   The White House’s request to have the FBI slap down media reports   would violate longstanding Justice Department protocols outlined   in memos from 2007 and and 2009. The memos limit contact between   the White House and the FBI during ongoing investigations. ” ”   US intelligence agencies are looking into Russia’s alleged   liaisons with people in Trump’s orbit  —   a portion of those   allegations were outlined in a   dossier that has been   making the rounds in Washington since last year. ” ’   US officials earlier this month said . ’ ’   A top Democratic official has promised the     investigations are ”” ’ ”   The alleged request from the White House  in   its attempts to cast doubt on news organizations  —   a pattern that   has intensified in the early aughts of Trump’s first term in   office. ” ”   Comey’s apparent refusal to publicly reject reporting on the   alleged Russian ties is a departure from moves he made during the   election, in which he twice announced FBI inquiries into a   private email server used by Democrat Hillary Clinton. ” ”   Comey’s comments on that matter were widely criticized by the   Democratic National Committee. The Clinton campaign   ultimately in the November election. ” ’The FBI reportedly rejected a White House. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’