’    ’ ’   ATLANTA  —   Outgoing Democratic National Committee chair Donna   Brazile, in some of her first public comments since the   presidential election, opened up Friday about how Russian   hacking of the DNC last year colored not only the outcome of   the election but also her personal experience in politics. ’ ’   In an interview with Business Insider at the DNC winter meeting   on Friday, the chair reflected on the effects of the release   of hacked emails from the committee and Hillary Clinton’’s   campaign chairman that were published by WikiLeaks last year. She   said that included ”constant harassment” and ”physical threats,   harmful threats.” And she said the experience changed her   personally. ’ ’   ”It was a campaign that I’’ve never experienced before, and I have   seven presidential campaigns under my belt. When I assumed the   chair role, I assumed, ’’Well, this will only take a couple months   out of my life, and I’’ll go back to being Donna. ’’ But it   transformed me,” Brazile said. ’ ”   Brazile’s comments came as Democratic leaders gathered in Atlanta   to choose a new chair and top party brass. She was elevated to   interim chair after a batch of WikiLeaks emails were released   before the party’s convention that displayed some DNC   staffers’ clear distaste for Sen. Bernie Sanders. ” ”   Other emails hacked from Clinton campaign chair John Podesta’s   account  then a CNN   contributor, tipping off the campaign about a question in   advance of a Democratic primary debate on the network. ” ’’ ’   ”I’’ve never gone up against a foreign military intelligence   unit,” she said Friday. ”I don’’t think no campaign manager, no   one in my position has ever had to fight the weaponization of   misinformation, to have your files corrupted and then to be used   as a form of weaponization to sew discord.” ’ ’   The outgoing chair lamented that the hacking allowed voters to   see a ”partial glimpse of an email or file system,” offering a   confusing picture of how the DNC conducts its business. In   an emotional speech earlier in the day, Brazile elaborated on the   threats made against DNC staffers personally, noting that there   were bomb threats and murder threats made against individual   staffers. ’ ”   Though she previously apologized to Sanders for some DNC   staffers’ private misgivings about the Vermont senator, the   outgoing chair also defended the system that allowed Clinton to   secure the Democratic nomination. ” ’   During the 2016 primary, some progressive activists decried the   influence of   superdelegates, the Democratic   officials and   figures who are selected by the   party and have an outsize role in the nominating process. ’ ’   ”What is wrong with a system that allows the person who gets the   most votes to win the primary?” Brazile said. ”What’’s wrong with   a system that allows people to vote their conscience? What’’s   wrong with a system that allows elected officials, party   activists and others to participate? There’’s nothing wrong with a   system like that.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The first open election in a decade, the DNC chair race appeared   to winnow to a close contest between Rep. Keith Ellison and   former Labor Secretary Tom Perez. Some observers viewed it   as a proxy battle between the ascendant progressive left and the   establishment wings of the Democratic party, though both   officials have publicly attempted to dismiss the comparison. ’ ”   South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg also appeared to be   gaining momentum on Friday, but many Democrats at Friday’s   meeting were unconvinced that he could win.  ” ’ATLANTA  —   Outgoing Democratic National. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’