’  ’ ’   There’’s a great part at the beginning of the movie ”Raiders   of the Lost Ark,” where, in a moment of triumph, the villainous   Belloq gloats to Indiana Jones that ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Just this week, for instance:  ’ ”   And that’s beyond the broader moves Amazon has made in the last   year or so, including, but not limited to,  by moving into logistics and delivery   and  by digging in on online   advertising. ” ’  ’ ’   Not to mention that Amazon is fighting Microsoft and Google in   the . Or the . Or   the fact that Amazon Prime Video is . Or that   Amazon is launching  to fight Target and Walmart. Or that    for restaurant delivery. ’ ’   In short, in often seems that Amazon is fighting everybody, all   the time.  ’ ”   Scarier still for competitors, Amazon’s business model gives it a   tremendous edge: With  especially, Amazon makes it easier to buy   physical and digital goods, to the point where you’d never even   think to look elsewhere. From there, the company can sell at     margins, because once you’re hooked, you’ll buy at   volume.  ” ”   And in the same way that Facebook has shown that it’s willing to   just   copy competitors like Snapchat if it serves its   ends, Amazon has made it clear that nothing is off limits. While   a  to offer student loans   through Amazon ended after only six weeks, it shows that the   retail giant is willing to sell anything. ” ’   Indeed, Amazon is willing to try stuff and fail. Just  a surprise hit that left Google, Apple, and   Microsoft scrambling to catch up. Meanwhile, every     device sold is another happy Amazon customer, . ’ ’  ’ ”   So to boil it down, Amazon will sell anything, to anyone, at a   cheaper price than anybody else can afford  —   and isn’t   afraid to burn money in search of new markets. ” ”   For instance, and as  it’s possible that the tweaks to   affiliate revenue are a sign that Amazon got what it wanted from   websites that promote its electronics, and is now dialing the   revenue back to drive more traffic back to its site   directly.  ” ’   That’’s long been the Amazon way, and this week gave us a clear   sign that Jeff Bezos’’   ”” isn’’t slowing down in its old age. ’ ’   A famous quote on competition that’’s  is that ”your margin   is my opportunity.” ’ ’   Or, in the words of Belloq, from the   1981 Raiders film, ”o ’ ”There’s a great part at the beginning of. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’