’  ’ ’   The Golden State Warriors announced on Wednesday that Kevin   Durant is out for at least four weeks with a Grade 2 MCL sprain   and bone bruise. ’ ’   While  and make their   hold on the No. 1 seed a little tougher, the injury   could have huge ramifications on an unsuspecting team,   the Indiana Pacers. ’ ”   If Durant doesn’t play the rest of the regular season, he’ll have   played 59 (very good) games with the Warriors this season. Durant   has averaged 25 points, eight rebounds, and five assists per game   while shooting 53% from the floor and 38% from three. He’s also   put together one of the best defensive seasons of his   career. ” ”   That should be enough to earn him an   spot, but if it   doesn’t, it may open the door for Pacers star forward Paul   George. That spot opening up could be critical to the   Pacers’ future. ” ’   This summer, the Pacers may have a chance to offer George the   ”Designated Player Extension” (or DPE) a new CBA rule that   allows teams to offer gigantic extensions worth 35% of the cap   (the maximum possible) to star players in the first year of the   deal. The extension for George would be worth about $212 million   over six years, . ’ ”   To earn the extension, players have to be named to an     team, MVP, or Defensive Player of the Year the year before. This   is where George is on shaky ground. To date, Durant, LeBron   James, Anthony Davis, Giannis Antetokounmpo, Kawhi Leonard, and   Jimmy Butler have all had better seasons than George. With two   forward spots on each of the three   teams,   George would be out of the running and, thus, wouldn’t   qualify for the DPE. ” ”   However, if voters decide Durant hasn’t played enough games to   earn an   spot, and if George were to finish the season on   a hot streak, that could change things. Of course, George   would have competition from other players, such as Utah’s Gordon   Hayward, but being eligible for the DPE could be a huge     for the Pacers. ” ”   Near the trade deadline last Thursday,  (his hometown team) as a free   agent in 2018 if the Pacers aren’t competing for a championship.   While it seems unlikely the Pacers could make such a leap in a   year, being able to offer George such a massive extension could   entice George to stay, especially when a deal with the Lakers   would be for significantly less. ” ”   Knowing what could be on the line doesn’t make voting much easier   for media members with votes, as ESPN’s Zach Lowe noted: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThis is an icky subplot that matters for the Pacers. Voting   just feels weird now.  ’ ”  —   it’s still reliant on media   members. While voting results haven’t often been controversial,   players’ earnings and potentially teams’ futures, could hinge on   these votes. ” ’   It will be an interesting race to watch down the stretch of the   season. It may not matter if voters feel Durant has done enough   in   of the season to lock down a spot. But if George   has a strong finish and helps the Pacers earn a playoff spot, the   voting could get tighter. And for the Pacers, there could be a   lot riding on this finish. ’ ’The Golden State Warriors announced on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’