’  ’ ’   Harvey Mudd College, a tiny   school in Claremont,   California, is an engineering, science, and mathematics   powerhouse. ’ ’   In fact, . ’ ’   But in addition to its reputation for producing strong graduates   in the STEM fields (science, technology, engineering, and math)   HMC also produces students  —   sometimes known as Mudders  —   who   embrace the arts. ’ ’   The school, which enrolls about 800 students, not only encourages   but demands that Mudders graduate with a strong     background,  as they must in core   introductory courses in the sciences. ’ ’ as ”an academic boot camp in   the STEM disciplines  —   math, physics, chemistry, biology,   computer science, and engineering  —   as well as classes in writing   and critical inquiry” that it says ”gives students a broad   scientific foundation and the skills to think and to solve   problems across disciplines.” ’ ’   The approach closely mirrors advice from some experts on how   schools can develop students able to compete with automation,   which has become an increasingly disruptive force in the labor   market. ’ ’     cars, for example, threaten the job security of    and automated financial   advisers  at   firms. ’ ’   ”Absolutely I think there’’s value in some level of understanding   computer science,” Shon Burton, the   previously . ’ ’  ’ ’   Burton, whose company uses artificial intelligence to make job   recruiting more efficient, said students must embrace the   humanities to become critical thinkers who improvise in ways that   robots cannot. ’ ’   At HMC, the   program is so strong that elite     schools have taken note. ’ ’   The California Institute of Technology, for example, invited   educators from HMC to visit its campus and provide training on   how to teach   classes for better student   retention, Caltech professor  told Business Insider.   Caltech is a premiere science and engineering college and was   labeled the . ’ ’   Part of this success is due to the thoughtful way HMC has chosen   to structure learning,  a     professor at HMC, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Everybody arrives and they have to take at least one     course, which is fairly unique for many schools,   particularly   schools,” Boerkoel said. ’ ’   The introductory   course is intentionally broader   than most intro courses. While the traditional approach features   a   class, HMC redesigned its intro sequence to   touch on programming, logic, software development, artificial   intelligence, and other topics within the field. ’ ”   The school also provides both basic and advanced sections of the   intro course so students who might otherwise dominate the   discussion don’t intimidate students who are less familiar with   computer science. ” ’   ”Those changes have led to some pretty big advances and equity   across gender,” Boerkoel said. ’ ’   So much so that last year, HMC graduated its first       class. Nationally, men make up   more than 84% of undergraduates majoring in computer science,   . ’ ’   ”They have an extraordinary undergraduate education program,” Yue   of Caltech said. ’ ’Harvey Mudd College, a tiny   school. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’