’  ’ ”   Now that Attorney General Jeff Sessions has recused himself from   any investigations regarding the 2016 presidential campaigns,   the man who gets to decide whether to appoint a special   prosecutor to investigate President Donald Trump’s     dealings with Russia is an appointee of Barack Obama. ” ”   When the attorney general is recused from an investigation,   oversight of that investigation ordinarily falls to the   department’s deputy. But currently, there is no deputy attorney   general  —   Sessions is the only Trump nominee who has been   confirmed to any position in the Justice Department. ” ’   The job of deputy attorney general is currently being done on an   acting basis by Dana Boente, the US Attorney for the Eastern   District of Virginia, who was nominated to that position by   Barack Obama. ’ ’   He is apparently so well known to Sessions’’ team that he is   referred to in Sessions’’ recusal letter as ”Dane Boente.” ’ ”   Despite the misspelling, Sessions’ recusal letter delegates to   Boente all functions from which he has recused himself. This   includes the attorney general’s  in the event that a criminal   investigation is warranted and would present a conflict of   interest if pursued by Justice Department litigators. ” ’’ ’   This has happened before: In 2003, when   General   John Ashcroft recused himself from an investigation into   allegations that White House officials intentionally leaked the   identity of CIA operative Valerie Plame, his deputy (fun fact:   James Comey) appointed a special prosecutor to pursue the   investigation. ’ ”   Boente likely won’t be acting deputy for much longer. The Senate   Judiciary Committee will hold hearings next week on confirming US   Attorney Rod Rosenstein to that job. Rosenstein was   previously nominated to multiple positions, including the   position he holds today, by George W. Bush. ” ’   In theory, if Boente were to appoint a special prosecutor,   Rosenstein could fire that prosecutor once confirmed. But   obviously, the political optics of firing a special prosecutor   would be much more challenging than the optics of declining to   name one in the first place. (Just ask Richard Nixon.) ’ ”   So, will Boente do it? Presumably, that depends on whether   he thinks a criminal investigation related to the   presidential election is warranted, and whether he thinks it’s a   conflict of interest for the department to investigate the   president who oversees the department. ” ’   Though he is a Democratic appointee to his current job,   Boente is a career employee of the Justice Department. The   New York Times  as liked by Democrats and Republicans and seen   as loyal to the department itself. ’ ’   Before Boente became acting deputy attorney general, he was   acting attorney general, a position he obtained when Trump   fired   Attorney General Sally Yates for refusing   to defend his travel ban executive order in court. ’ ”   Boente loyally pursued the department’s (unsuccessful, to   date) defense of the ban. But unlike refusing to defend the ban,   appointing a special prosecutor would not represent a breach of   the chain of command. ” ’Now that Attorney General Jeff Sessions has. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’