’  ’ ’   Prosecutors from Cook County, Chicago are looking for additional   cases of corruption surrounding a former Chicago police officer,    on Monday. ’ ’   Prosecutors alleged that there may have been more compromised   convictions involving Sgt. Ronald Watts and his subordinates   stretching back almost 10 years  —   far more than the four drug   convictions that were previously overturned. ’ ’   The court has so far tossed out cases involving three defendants   and awarded $2 million to two officers who said they were   victimized after initiating their whistleblower lawsuit, in which   they alleged they were ”blackballed” for attempting to bring   Watts’’ alleged corruption to light, the newspaper reported. ’ ”   Watts, a public housing officer, was known to extort protection   money from drug dealers and framed cases on those who wouldn’t   comply, Chicago Tribune reporter Jason Meisner wrote. He was   arrested in 2012 by the FBI and pleaded guilty to stealing money   from an informant. He was eventually sentenced to 22 months in   prison, according to the Tribune. ” ’   ”We know from law enforcement documents that Watts and his crew   were accused of taking kickbacks on a weekly basis,” said   attorney Josh Tepfer of the University of Chicago Law School’’s   Exoneration Project in an interview with the Tribune. ’ ’   ”It was clear as day that they were routinely framing individuals   for crimes that they didn’’t commit. And individuals at the   highest levels of CPD were aware of this misconduct.” ’ ’   Ben Baker, who served almost a decade in prison, was released   last year. Lionel White, who pleaded guilty to a     sentence in order to prevent receiving a potential life sentence,   maintained that he had been framed and had his conviction   dismissed in December after being behind bars for 2   years. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”There is little question that [those cases] barely scratch the   surface of the wrongful arrests, prosecutions and convictions at   the hands of an individual the Cook County State’’s Attorney’’s   Office now acknowledges is a ’’dirty police officer,’’” a November   filing stated. ”The interests of justice necessitate a full   accounting of all the victims that have been harmed by wrongful   conviction through the actions of these rogue Chicago police   officers.” ’ ”   Tepfer believed that the Watts case was the first time that the   state’s attorney’s office was searching through convictions on   its own personnel. ” ’   ”We’’re very pleased that they’’ve decided to go forward,” Tepfer   said, according to the Tribune. ”It’’s absolutely the right thing   to do.” ’ ’   ”Whether they spent a year behind bars or five years, it was time   taken out of society, time where they weren’’t able to work, where   they lost time with their family or weren’’t able to live their   life because they were framed,” he said. ’ ’   ”Every one of those individuals has the right to have their   convictions overturned and the opportunity to get compensation   from the state.” ’ ’Prosecutors from Cook County, Chicago are. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’