’Uber was already off to a bad start in 2017, but the year is getting worse by the day, if not the hour, for the $69 billion   company. ’ ’In January, Uber lost more than 200, 000 customers in a single weekend after the #DeleteUber movement led to a fury of account deletions by customers upset about its ties to President Donald Trump. ’ ”But that was just the beginning of Uber’s     month. Since then the company has been pummeled by a seemingly   barrage of bad news, with a new crisis almost every day.” ”If business schools need a new case study for a company in a PR disaster, Uber’s past two weeks are as perfect an example as can be found. And it’s still not clear how Uber will get past this test.” ”Here’s everything that’s happened to Uber over the last 14 days:” ’ ’ ’Susan Fowler starts it all with her reflections on ”one very, very strange year at Uber.” Fowler, a former engineer at the company,  that she was sexually harassed at Uber and experienced gender bias during her time at the company. She claimed that one manager propositioned her and asked for sex, but her complaints to HR were dismissed because the manager was a high performer. She said Uber continued to ignore her complaints to HR, and then her manager threatened to fire her for reporting things to HR.’ ’Uber CEO Travis Kalanick immediately pledges to look into Fowler’’s investigations, and hires former US Attorney General Eric Holder to lead the investigation. Kalanick  of publication to say Fowler’’s account was ”abhorrent & against everything we believe in.” Uber hires Eric Holder, former US attorney general, to lead an independent investigation into it.’ ”The  that suggests Fowler’s claims were not isolated. Employees did cocaine during a company retreat and a manager had to be fired after groping multiple women, according to the report. Former employees said they’d notified Uber’s leadership, including Kalanick and CTO Thuan Pham, of the workplace harassment.” ’Uber investors, Freada and Mitch Kapor, blasted the company for failing to change. In  the Kapors  the    work that some of its investors have tried to do for years to change the company culture. ”We are speaking up now because we are disappointed and frustrated; we feel we have hit a dead end in trying to influence the company quietly from the inside,” the Kapors wrote.’ ”Google, another Uber investor, sued the company for intellectual property theft. In  the Google    group, now known as Waymo, accused Uber of using stolen technology to advance its own   development. The  filed in the US District Court in San Francisco, claimed that a team of   engineers stole the company’s design for the lidar laser sensor that allows   cars to map the environment around them.” ’Uber denied Google’’s claims of stealing its   tech. ”We have reviewed Waymo’’s claims and determined them to be a baseless attempt to slow down a competitor and we look forward to vigorously defending against them in court,” . ’ ’On the same, Uber also had to clarify that it’’s not behind mysterious efforts to dig up ’’intimate’’ info about the ex engineer who accused it of sex harassment. Fowler  was doing research for a ”smear campaign” against her, warning her friends to beware of anyone seeking personal information about her. Uber said it was not involved in any such efforts.’ ’But trust in the company was undermined that same day when a news report revealed that Uber’’s account of another controversial incident was not entirely forthright. Uber had blamed ”human error” for one its   car running a red light on a San Francisco street in December. As  it was the   car system that failed to recognize the six stop lights at the intersection and run the red as a passenger entered the crosswalk. The only ”human error” was that the human failed to notice the car’’s error and correct it in time.’ ’’ ’’ ’But Uber had an even worse week to come.’ ”Uber’s SVP of engineering stepped down over   allegations at his former job at Google. The engineer, Amit Singhal, left Uber after Recode’s Kara Swisher  through her reporting. When Uber CEO Travis Kalanick found out,  according to a person familiar with the situation. The person also said that Singhal went through the standard background checks before his employment at Uber and that the   allegations during Singhal’s time at Google never came up. Singhal has strenuously denied the allegations.” ’A dashcam video caught Uber CEO in a heated argument over prices. A video published by Bloomberg  in an argument with an Uber driver on Super Bowl Sunday after the driver confronted him about lowered fares.’ ’Kalanick then issued a ”profound” apology and says he’’ll seek leadership help. ”My job as your leader is to lead  …    and that starts with behaving in a way that makes us all proud,” . ”That is not what I did, and it cannot be explained away. This is the first time I’’ve been willing to admit that I need leadership help and I intend to get it. ”’ ”Lyft, capitalizing on the moment, is trying to raise $500 million to fight Uber. In a kick ’em when they’re down way (or just smart business) that Uber rival Lyft is trying to raise an extra half a million to fund its growth against a   Uber.” ”  engineer Susan Fowler said the company is blaming her for users deleting their account and investigating her personal life. As a result, she’s hired her own lawyer. Uber acknowledges that it hired a second law firm, Perkins Coie, to look into her allegations (but, the company says, not investigate her personally).” ”Uber changed its mind about its   cars. After a clash with California’s DMV in December,  and decided to apply for a permit for its   cars to get them back in California. Its spat with California regulators in December was the beginning of the old Uber starting to rear its ugly head, but the company’s change of mind was a sliver of a good press in the maelstrom of scandals.” ”The New York Times revealed that Uber has been secretively deceiving authorities for years with a tool called ’Greyball’.  Uber used the tool to evade authorities, particularly at times when city regulators were trying to block the   service, according to a report by . The  from Uber’s app to identify and evade officials in cities like Boston, Paris, and Las Vegas. The Times reports that the program was used in markets where Uber was banned or being resisted by law enforcement.” ’Uber loses another top VP: Uber’’s VP of Product and Growth, Ed Baker,  after more than three years at the company. In an email  Baker said he wanted to join the public sector, but his departure has mysterious timing as Recode alleged there was other ”questionable” behavior from the executive.’ ”Meanwhile, the Uber exec and board member who oversaw the HR department has been strangely absent during Uber’s biggest crisis. Business Insider reports that ” ’Uber was already off to a bad start in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’