’  ’ ’   In his speech to the joint session of Congress on Tuesday,   President Trump took time to attack the Affordable Care Act,   better known as Obamacare, and laid out a broad vision for the   future of healthcare in the US. ’ ’   ”Obamacare is collapsing and we must act decisively to protect   all Americans,” Trump said. ”Action is not a choice  —   it is a   necessity. So I am calling on all Democrats and Republicans in   the Congress to work with us to save Americans from this   imploding Obamacare disaster.” ’ ”   The president went on to lay out five principles that he says he   wants to see in an Obamacare replacement  —   from preexisting   conditions to funding to help the poorest American buy   coverage. Here’s what these plans could mean for many   Americans. ” ”   Before the Affordable Care Act, Americans with health problems   ranging from asthma to cancer could find it hard or even   impossible to obtain health insurance, if they didn’t have it   through an employer or other group.  ” ”   Obamacare’s rule forbidding insurance companies from excluding   these Americans with preexisting conditions has become . Trump has longed   vowed to maintain that.  ” ’   But there are a few different things this could mean. ’ ’   In a leaked draft of the House GOP’’s      bill, people cannot be denied coverage based on a preexisting   condition, but many could be placed into   separate marketplaces called ”  pools.” ’ ”   In the ACA’s individual   exchanges, healthy   people and people with preexisting conditions are in the   same pool. For insurers, this helps to balance the risk and costs   and mitigate losses from the exchange. Since there are limits to   how much people in the same pool can be charged, this also   leads to healthier people having slightly higher premiums   than they would otherwise and those with preexisting   conditions to have somewhat cheaper premiums. ” ’   Republicans would separate the two groups, bringing down costs   for healthy people who want insurance through the individual   marketplace. It would also most likely mean that those people   with preexisting conditions would see their costs rise. ’ ’     states had their own   pools   before the ACA. The Kaiser Family Foundation, a leading   nonpartisan   think tank,  in these       pools was anywhere between 125% and 200% more   than the average premium cost outside of the pools and many   people did not enroll because of the prohibitive cost. ’ ’   Additionally, the key word in this part is ”access.” As     experts have pointed out, access is not the   guarantee for coverage, and the expensive plans in the     pools, while theoretically accessible to people with preexisting   conditions, could price many people out. ’ ”   The next principle laid out in Trump’s speech is designed to help   Americans get affordable health insurance. ” ’   The leaked Republican plan proposes giving all Americans a   tax credit up front to buy insurance based on their age. The   bill would create three age brackets. Those under 35 would get   $2, 000, for example. ’ ”   Currently, Obamacare has a different structure of tax   credits. These are tied to a recipient’s income and   location, not age. This has allowed about  to get coverage for $75   or less in premiums per month, though they did leave some   out since they were capped at an income of 400% of the   federal poverty line. ” ’  ’ ’   Kaiser also looked at the House draft bill’’s proposals for these   block grants, which are roughly in line with the ideas proposed   in House Speaker Paul Ryan’’s ”Better Way” plan and new secretary   for health and human services secretary Tom Price’’s ”Putting   Patients First” act. ’ ’   The study by Kaiser found that, overall, the block credit   would shift the balance of assistance. ’ ’   ”For current marketplace enrollees, the House Discussion Draft   and Price bill would provide substantially lower tax credits   overall than the ACA. People who are lower income, older, or live   in high premium areas would be particularly disadvantaged under   the House Discussion Draft and Price bill relative to the ACA,”   the Kaiser report said. ’ ’   For Instance, under the current ACA credits, the average single   beneficiary over the age of 60 with an income of $20, 000 would   receive $9, 874 per year to pay for their insurance. Under the   House draft, this tax credit would be capped at $4, 000. ’ ’  ’ ’   It also seems that Trump is being less aggressive about repealing   the tax credits than the most conservative members of his   party.   Republicans want to repeal all funding for tax   credits because they believe they are not fiscally responsible.   By endorsing these tax credits, it shows that the president is   more on the side of House Speaker Paul Ryan than conservatives   such as the House Freedom Caucus or Sen. Ted Cruz. ’ ’   This may be one of the most controversial statements from Trump   within his own party. ’ ’   The ACA expanded Medicaid coverage from the federal government so   that a person making up to 138% over the federal poverty line   could get insurance through the government program.  this allowed more than 11 million     Americans who otherwise would not have access to   insurance get covered. ’ ’   Some conservatives in the GOP want to  while   Republican lawmakers and governors in states that have expanded   the program want to keep the expansion. These lawmakers fear that   rolling back coverage for those on Medicaid could be   politically costly: Polls show . ’ ”   The House GOP’s draft proposes this: repeal federal funding   for the expansion by 2020 and then move to block grants. ” ’   These would ultimately offer less funding to the states.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  .  ’ ’  ’ ’In his speech to the joint session of Congress. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’