’  ’ ’   On a panel titled  at the   Conservative Political Action Conference last week, former Army     commander Mike Waltz was talking about the long   road ahead in the fight against terrorism. ’ ’   ”We’’re in for a long haul, and I think our nation’’s leadership   needs to begin telling the American people, ’’I’’m sorry, we don’’t   have a choice, we are 15 years into what is going to be a   multigenerational war, because we’’re talking about defeating an   idea,’’” Waltz said. ’ ’   During his government career, Waltz was an Afghanistan policy   director at the Defense Department and worked in the White House   for Vice President Dick Cheney. He has since worked for think   tanks such as New America and the Foundation for the Defense of   Democracies. ’ ’   ”It’’s easy to bomb a tank, very difficult to defeat an idea,”   Waltz said, referring to extremist ideologies. ”And that’’s   exactly what we have to do.” ’ ’   To this an audience member shouted out, ”It’’s impossible!” The   crowd started to applaud. ’ ”   But one of Waltz’s fellow panelists, senior White House official   Sebastian Gorka, politely disagreed. ” ’   ”I have to disagree mildly with my colleague and especially with   the gentleman who just shouted out from the audience, ’’It’’s   impossible to defeat an idea,’’” Gorka said. ”Wrong, sir. Wrong.” ’ ”   Gorka went on to reject an assertion that’s been common among   counterterrorism analysts in previous administrations  —   that the   West is in a   fight against terrorism. ” ’   ”We jettison the idea that this is a generational war,” Gorka   said. ”We will defeat ISIS and we will defeat them rapidly. To   undermine the ideology will take a little bit longer, but not   generations, because remember one thing: In 1987, a man called   Ronald Reagan stood in front of the Berlin Wall and he said, ’’Mr.   Gorbachev, tear down this wall! ’’” ’ ’   ”Eighteen months later,” Gorka continued, his voice rising,   ”without a shot being fired, the people imprisoned on the other   side of that wall took . .. it . .. down.” ’ ’   The crowd cheered as Gorka concluded: ”Ideas can be defeated!” ’ ’  ’ ’     analysts who emphasize the importance of   defeating Islamic extremist ideology say they have struggled   under several administrations to get a seat at the policymaking   table and push their ideas into the mainstream. ’ ”   But that’s changing under President Trump. ” ’   This turning tide is illustrated by Gorka, a former editor at   Breitbart News who is now a deputy assistant to the president for   the Strategic Initiatives Group, a new White House organization   that US officials  is like a parallel National Security Council. Gorka   has faced an onslaught of negative media attention in recent   weeks. ’ ”   Many     experts  Gorka holding a     position in the White House. They say he doesn’t have the   qualifications or knowledge to be influencing government policy,   and some say his ideas are even dangerous and . ” ’   He has his defenders, though. Amid the media firestorm, some     analysts, mostly those who focus on the   importance of defeating radical Islamist ideology, have been   coming forward to defend Gorka and celebrate their improved   standing in government circles. ’ ’   ”I’’ve spoken at a few universities, but it is very hard to get   this message out to establishment folks,” Zuhdi Jasser, founder   of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy and frequent Fox News   commentator, told Business Insider this week. ’ ’   He said that ”compared to all the speakers [universities] get   repeatedly,” people like him are ”marginalized with this   viewpoint” about fighting radical Islam. ’ ’   Jasser, a Muslim who said he has known Gorka for a couple of   years, was also on the CPAC panel with Gorka and Waltz last week.   In 2012, in light of Jasser defending the New York Police   Department’’s   programs, Mother Jones  that he had become the right’’s ”  guy when it   comes to providing cover for policies or positions that many   Muslim Americans contend are discriminatory.” ’ ’   He and some others who have come to Gorka’’s defense promote the   argument that to defeat terrorism the government needs to   identify the enemy  —   ”radical Islamic terrorists”  —   and fight the   ideology to which this enemy subscribes. ’ ’  ’ ’   It’’s quite a departure from the Obama administration’’s refusal to   use the phrase ”radical Islamic terrorism” for fear of   stigmatizing Muslims and playing into terrorist groups’’ narrative   of a clash of civilizations between Muslims and the West. ’ ”   President Barack Obama’s administration also emphasized the   complexity of the terrorism problem. Rather than boil it down to   just a radical religious ideology,   officials often   argued that political and socioeconomic factors also come into   play in determining why people become terrorists. ” ’   Gorka, however, takes a more simplistic view. He said during the   CPAC panel that terrorism ”isn’’t about poverty or lack of   education.” He told The Washington Post recently that he   ”jettison[s]” the view of past administrations that the terrorism   problem is ”nuanced and complicated.” He said terrorism is rooted   in Islam and portions of the Quran. ’ ’   ”Anybody who downplays the role of religious ideology . .. they   are deleting reality to fit their own world,” Gorka told The   Post. ’ ’   Jasser said there’’s been a ”bigger, almost oppressive suffocation   of any free thinking in the   establishment about   what needs to be confronted,” noting that the ”political   correctness mindset” has been ”pervasive.” ’ ’   ”The left believes in diversity,” Jasser said. ”If they believe   in diversity, where’’s the diversity in their approach to Islam?” ’ ’   Gorka, he said, is helping to diversify the thinking of those who   craft foreign policy in the US. Gorka himself told NPR on   Wednesday that the new administration wouldn’’t work with   ”  terrorism experts” who were ”linked in any way to the   last eight years of disastrous counterterrorism.” ’ ’   ”We’’re going to take a new approach,” Gorka said. ”We have a new   president.” ’ ’   Before now, Jasser said, people like him and Gorka had largely   been ignored by the   establishment. ’ ”   And Gorka is just one of several policymakers in Trump’s White   House who espouses views on terrorism and Islam that had   previously been found only on the fringes of the national   security community. Deputy National Security Adviser K. T.   McFarland, a former Fox News analyst who hasn’t worked in   government for decades, and senior National Security Council   staffer Michael Anton have used language similar to Gorka’s to   talk about Islam. Both have been met with   over their past statements. ” ’   ”It’’s sort of, we’’re at the bottom and they’’ll pay attention to   us once in a while as those agitators, but they will not give us   an equal seat at the table,” Jasser said. ’ ’   ”For the first time now,” he added, ”we have people in the White   House and within the   establishment that can at   least give us a seat at the table.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Gorka is one representative of the new generation of     advisers lending their expertise to   policymaking groups in the White House. The Strategic Initiatives   Group, for which Gorka works, has the power to write executive   orders. And Gorka has spoken on behalf of the administration in   the media and on panels like the one at CPAC. ’ ”   Thomas Joscelyn, a counterterrorism expert and senior fellow at   the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, said that while he   agrees that the motivations of terrorists are complex, previous   White House administrations haven’t paid enough attention to   ideology. ” ’   ”The truth is, much of the field has downplayed the ideological   component,” he said. ”Here comes Seb, who says, no, you’’re wrong,   it’’s No. 1 on the list.” ’ ’   Others in this new crew of White House   experts   hold similar views. ’ ’   ”Global Islamist jihad is at war with all of Western   civilization,” McFarland, Trump’’s deputy     adviser,  last year. ”President Obama and other   Western leaders may not see it as a war, but the other side   does.” ’ ’   Anton, the senior National Security Council staffer,  (using a pseudonym) last year that ”Islam and the   modern West are incompatible.” ’ ’   ”Islam is not a ’’religion of peace’’; it’’s a militant faith that   exalts conversion by the sword and inspires thousands to acts of   terror  —   and millions more to support and sympathize with   terror,” Anton wrote. ’ ’   In the same essay, Anton argued in favor of limiting Muslim   immigration into the US. ’ ’   ”Yes, of course, not all Muslims are terrorists, blah, blah,   blah, etc. ,” Anton wrote. ”Even so, what good has Muslim   immigration done for the United States and the American people?” ’ ”   Anton defended Trump’s views on the risks immigrants pose to the   US. ” ’   ”Immigration to the United States  —   by Muslims or anyone else  —     is presented as a civil right for foreigners: the burden is   forced on Americans to prove that Muhammed is a terrorist or Jose   is a criminal, and if we can’’t, we must let them in,” he wrote.   ”Trump alone among major political figures has stood up to say   this is nonsense.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Gorka’s defenders reject the assertion that he’s an Islamophobe   or   two charges that have been thrown at him of late. ” ’   Last week, controversy emerged over Gorka wearing the medal of a   Hungarian group that collaborated with the Nazis during World War   II. Gorka, who was born in England to Hungarian refugees,    saying he wore the medal, which he   says was awarded to his father as a declaration for his   resistance to a dictatorship, in remembrance of what his family   went through. ’ ”   Several people who have known Gorka for years and spoke to   Business Insider for this story insisted that he’s not an     or Islamophobe, and say he simply takes a different   approach to counterterrorism than previous administrations. ” ’   ”Most of the people who are coming out against him represent the   old approach under Obama,” said Joscelyn, the counterterrorism   expert at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies. ’ ’   ”Combatting violent extremism  —   I was never a fan of that phrase   because you don’’t want to blame all Muslims or all of Islam, but   you can go too far in the other direction and strip it of all   ideological meaning whatsoever.” ’ ’   Joscelyn said people who are invested in the Obama   administration’’s school of thought ”take exception to [Gorka’’s]   arguments,” but ”that doesn’’t mean he’’s necessarily wrong.” ’ ”   Although Gorka’s statements seem to suggest that the US is at war   with a jihadist ideology, he  that the war is not with Islam, but   rather inside Islam between radicals and the majority of   Muslims who practice a more modern interpretation of Islam. ” ’   Shadi Hamid, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and   author of  said he falls ”somewhere in the middle” in the   debate over jihadist ideology. ’ ’   ”I do go out of my way to take religion seriously as a factor in   understanding groups like ISIS or just understanding the Middle   East more generally  —   this question of, ’’How much does religion   matter? ’’” Hamid told Business Insider. ”There is a legitimate   critique to be made that too often we don’’t take religion   seriously enough as a factor.” ’ ’   But he cautioned that this doesn’’t mean we should ”go all the way   in the other direction” to focus overwhelmingly on religion in   understanding and combatting jihadist ideology and terrorism. ’ ’   ”I feel like that’’s what’’s happened with people like Gorka,”   Hamid said. ”In an attempt to correct what they view as the   political correctness of the left, they overcorrect and go too   far in the opposite direction.” ’ ’   Hamid said we should be having a ”nuanced conversation” about the   power of religious ideology and the role of religion in   terrorism. He said the discourse suggesting that ”ISIS has   nothing to do with Islam” is counterproductive because ”it’’s   clear to even the most casual observer that ISIS has something to   do with Islam.” ’ ’   But he again cautioned against oversimplifying the problem. ’ ’   ”Political factors matter a lot, and the fact that someone like   Gorka is not willing to acknowledge the role of political context   is very concerning,” Hamid said. ”We do know that political   context matters a lot because where are the two countries where   ISIS gained the most ground? Two countries that are riddled by   civil war.” ’ ’   Hamid said we shouldn’’t take people on the ”  fringe”   seriously. ’ ’   ”Those are the people who are coming to the defense of the Trump   administration’’s approach to Islam,” he said. ”I think that it’’s   fair to put Gorka in that ideological camp.” ’ ”   Hamid also discussed the shift in the national conversation   around terrorism and the Trump administration’s narrative of a   civilizational clash between the West and radical Islamists. ” ’   ”Views that were previously on the far right are now at the   center of the White House,” he said. ”We didn’’t want to   legitimize views or mainstream views that we thought were on the   furthest fringes of the conversation, but now obviously we do   have to engage.” ’ ’  ’ ”   One of the criticisms of Gorka is that he doesn’t have the   experience or academic credentials to be advising the White House   on policy. His critics have also taken aim at his    for a university in Budapest, which they say wouldn’t stand up to   the scrutiny of a US university, and  on terrorism, which was a New York Times    . Some talk about the fact that he doesn’t speak   Arabic. ” ”   Anton, the senior NSC staffer, and McFarland, the former Fox News   analyst who is now Trump’s deputy   adviser, have   also been out of government work for years and have been the   subjects of media   their views. ” ’   And perhaps it’’s no surprise that Trump has recruited people who   have been out of the usual rotation of     policymakers. Trump was the antiestablishment candidate in the   2016 election, and his calls to ”drain the swamp” became a   rallying cry for his supporters during the election. ’ ”   Joscelyn, the counterterrorism expert and senior fellow at the   Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, said Gorka simply   doesn’t cater to the establishment that Trump’s supporters shun. ” ’   ”I’’ve heard [Gorka’’s] lectures at the FBI and also his     classes, including at Fort Bragg, and he gives an   excellent presentation on the history of jihadist ideology,”   Joscelyn said. ’ ’   He said that Gorka tailors his materials to ”practitioners, law   enforcement, and special forces.” Gorka suggested in his   interview with The Washington Post that he writes more for people   fighting terrorism in the field than for academics in the US. ’ ’   ”That’’s a different world from the commentariat or the     elite opinion leaders,” Joscelyn said. ”I don’’t think he ever   really concerned himself with what those people thought, and he   definitely represents ideas that are different from theirs.” ’ ”   And while Gorka hasn’t been a part of the Washington   establishment, he has worked with government officials before   Trump’s election. ” ’   Rep. Trent Franks, a Republican from Arizona and member of the   House Armed Services Committee,  supporting Gorka last week. Franks told Business   Insider that he’’s known Gorka for years and thinks Gorka is ”one   of the most prescient minds on the subject of jihadist ideology   in the world today.” ’ ’   ”I’’ve worked with the man a long time and have the very highest   opinion of his commitment to the cause and his scholarship,”   Franks said. ’ ’   Franks said Gorka’’s critics have come out against him because   Gorka is ”a lot smarter than they are most of the time.” ’ ’   ”Most of the time it’’s people that would rather use the     euphemisms for terrorism and for the ideology that   spawns it,” Franks said. ”Dr. Gorka is capable of speaking to it   in strategic terminology that leaves no reasonable listener   confused about the clarity of this being a national narrative, a   global narrative by terrorists to subjugate those who don’’t hold   to their ideology.” ’ ’   David Reaboi, a   consultant who has written for   conservative publications like The Federalist and RedState and   said he has known Gorka for years, said the ”mainstream” experts   who are often quoted in the media don’’t ”necessarily have any   purchase in the wider marketplace of ideas.” ’ ’   ”It’’s the     cone,” Reaboi said in response   to mentions of experts like the Brookings Institution’’s Will   McCants and the Tahrir Institute for Middle East Policy’’s Hassan   Hassan, who have written   books on ISIS. ’ ’   ”These books . .. we read all these people,” Reaboi said. ”It’’s   not like we don’’t know who these people are. I think they’’re   wrong in their own ways. But Seb writes for a larger audience.   That’’s just what it is. Attacking him because he’’s not writing in     journals  —   you’’re not allowed to talk about this   stuff in   journals.” ’ ’   Fred Fleitz, a former CIA analyst who has also known Gorka for   years and has written for Breitbart and Fox News, said   conservatives like Gorka ”wouldn’’t be permitted by the academic   establishment to get where he is today.” ’ ’   ”[Academics] are rejecting him because of his ideas,” Fleitz   said. ”They’’re rejecting someone they would never admit to their   club.” ’ ’   Fleitz said there’’s also ”enormous professional jealousy” of   Gorka because of his White House job. ’ ’   Hamid, the Brookings Institution fellow who would be considered   one of these mainstream experts, rejected these views. ’ ’   ”A lot of us write about the relevance and power of religion as a   motivating factor that has to be taken into account” in analyzing   terrorism, Hamid said. ”No one has a problem with that in   academia   …     But in   journals, it just has to be   backed by evidence. If you’’re coming in and making broad,   sweeping generalizations without any evidence   …     then of course   that won’’t be published.” ’ ’   Hamid said it’’s a ”false premise” that writing for a large   audience comes at the expense of making nuanced arguments. ’ ’   ”You can write books about Islam and radicalism and Islamism for   a larger audience without compromising on basic facts and factual   assessments of these situations,” he said. ”The idea that there’’s   some   that if you want to write for a larger audience   you have to oversimplify things  —   when did that become the case?” ’ ’On a panel titled ”When did World War III Begin. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’