’  ’ ’   Federal Reserve officials say their decisions on interest rate   policy hinge on the ebb and flow of economic data, not the whims   of financial markets. ’ ’   They have repeatedly downplayed the effect of   market   fluctuations in their policy moves, aimed at maintaining a   strong labor market and 2% inflation over the medium term. ’ ”   But the thing about markets is, they don’t really matter until   they suddenly do. ” ’   That may be the case at the moment, with Fed   officials suddenly signaling in unison, without major   changes in the economic data, that an increase in interest rates   is coming this month. Investors accordingly shifted   from considering a March hike  to seeing it as a  in just two weeks.     What changed? The stock market continued to set new records   without much underlying economic impetus.  ’ ’  ’ ’   When the Fed released minutes from its end of January   meeting, they showed members ” ’ ” and her Vice Chair Stanley Fischer, both   speaking on March 3, appeared to seal the deal for a rate   increase at the Fed’s upcoming March   meeting  —   with Yellen   indicating that a hike is coming barring a drastic disappointment   in next week’s February jobs report.  ” ’   Fischer was also was fairly unequivocal. ’ ’   “If there has been a conscious effort to move up our hike   expectations I am going to join it,” he told a monetary policy   conference in New York, sponsored by the University of Chicago’s   Booth School of Business. ’ ’   Fischer specifically cited a ”wealth effect” from recent stock   market gains as likely fueling optimism among businesses and   consumers.  ’ ’   Since the election of President Donald Trump, the stock market   has been on a tear that few expected before the vote. Share   prices, already elevated before the November vote, have broken   record high after record high.    The consensus among Fed policymakers, while not unanimous, is   that interest rate increases should not be used to prick bubbles   in financial markets, since such monetary tightening risks doing   more harm to the broader economy than good in dampening specific   risks. ’ ’   However, having kept official interest rates near zero for seven   years during the Great Recession and its aftermath, officials   have said they are  for potential asset price   bubbles.   ’ ”   Yet there’s still a reasonable economic argument against   raising rates too fast. It’s true that consumer prices are rising    but overall, US inflation has consistently undershot   the Fed’s 2% target, and many Fed members had voiced a preference   for allowing it to exceed the goal for a period in order to show   the threshold is not a ceiling. ” ”   Some officials still see downside risks to inflation, according   to minutes of the Fed’s meetings. Charles Evans of the Chicago   Fed, also speaking at the Chicago Booth Conference, cited the   risk of   inflation as one of his worries. While low   inflation sounds like a good thing, when it’s too low it can be a   sign that the economy is operating below its potential and wages   are stuck in neutral  ” ’   Moreover, economic growth forecasts have not risen materially   above the recent 2% annual trend despite optimism about the   prospect of corporate tax cuts and a large fiscal stimulus, both   of which require extensive and complex Congressional action. ’ ”   Other factors that have underpinned the Fed’s low rates   policies  —   like the   number of   adults   who have effectively given up on the job market  —   are   also still at play.    In fairness, Fed officials can point to factors beyond a frothy   stock market to make the case for higher interest rates.   Unemployment is historically low and economic growth is steady,   if unspectacular.  ” ”   But a Fed that’s distracted by Wall Street’s unbridled enthusiasm   risks tightening monetary policy before the economy is truly   ready. Given the high amount of uncertainty associated with the   potential economic policies of President Donald Trump, waiting   for a little more clarity on the outlook might be the   wiser thing to do.  ” ’Federal Reserve officials say their decisions. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’