’  ’ ’   North Korea launched a    potentially telegraphing a ”saturation attack” intended to defeat   US, South Korean, or Japanese missile defenses. ’ ”   The missiles sputtered out, landing in the waters close to   Japan’s coast without doing any damage, and the US and South   Korea  by agreeing to deploy one of the   world’s best missile defense systems, the Terminal     Air Defense. ” ’   After a February 12 missile test, which demonstrated its own   scarily improved capabilities, Pentagon spokesman Capt. Jeff   Davis said that the launch posed a ”grave threat to our national   security,” but that the US was ”capable of defending against a   North Korean ballistic missile attack.” ’ ”   But    that even the greatest missile defenses don’t offer complete   protection from North Korea’s ballistic missiles, and as North   Korea refuses to play by the West’s rules, missile defense   becomes increasingly irrelevant. ” ’   What North Korea demonstrated on Sunday was a salvo fire, which   intends to overwhelm missile defenses with a volume of missiles.   North Korea could launch hundreds of missiles from mobile   launchers hidden across the country at any given moment. Some of   them could be decoys. Some of them could be   missiles   lofted higher away from earth to reenter the atmosphere at speeds   no interceptor missile could hope to match. ’ ”   North Korea’s submarine could sail beyond the range of US and   allied defenses and launch a nuke from the high seas. In short,   missile defenses can be fooled, and North Korea showed on Sunday   it doesn’t intend to be outfoxed. ” ”   Even with the US’s THAAD deployed and with constant monitoring,   Kelsey Davenport, the director of nonproliferation at the Arms   Control Association, told Business Insider that missile defense   isn’t a good enough response to North Korea’s missile tests  —     diplomatic engagement is needed. ” ’  ’ ’   ”The major issue with relying on the missile defense system is   capacity,” Ian Williams, associate director of the International   Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International   Studies, told Business Insider. ’ ’: ”Missile defense is not a surefire way to   negate the threat posed by another country’’s     ballistic missiles.” ’ ”   The US has 25, 000 troops deployed to South Korea and more than   50, 000 in Japan. Seoul, South Korea’s exposed capital city, is   home to 10 million civilians. No missile defense system on the   planet can guarantee the safety of every one of these people. ” ’   The US just doesn’’t ”have enough interceptors to sit and play   catch with everything that North Korea can throw,” Williams said.   ”US and allied missile defenses could likely absorb a first wave,   but there would need to be coordination with strike forces to   start knocking out North Korea’’s missiles out before they could   be launched.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The second major issue, according to Williams, is coverage. The   US uses multiple layers of missile defense systems like Patriot     batteries and   destroyer ships, but   they provide uneven coverage in the region. ’ ’   Even Abel Romero’u2028, the director of government relations’u2028 at the   Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance,’u2028 told Business Insider that   missile defense is not ”solely the answer” to stopping threats   from North Korea. China and Russia have missiles that can reach   the US in less than 30 minutes, defeat all existing missile   defenses, and target up to 10 separate locations with individual   warheads, but no one in the US looks to defend against such   attacks, according to Romero. ’ ’   ”As of right now, I’’ve never heard anyone come out and say we   need to build a missile defense system to defend us from Russia   and China,” said Romero. ’ ’   Instead, the US uses diplomacy and the doctrine of mutually   assured destruction to coexist with Russia and China. As the   nuclear missile threat grows from North Korea, the US must find a   way to coexist with it  —   or to . ’ ’North Korea launched a salvo of four missiles. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’