’  ’ ’   President Trump raised eyebrows after he posted five   congratulatory tweets promoting a Monday announcement from the   energy giant ExxonMobil, the company from which his secretary of   state came to the administration. ’ ’   The company had said earlier in the day that it was expanding its   manufacturing operation along the Gulf Coast and creating more   than 45, 000 jobs in the region. ’ ’   Initially, the White House posted a press release reiterating the   ExxonMobil news. That press release  almost    from the Exxon announcement. ’ ’   Trump, who wrote on Twitter on Monday that the move from Exxon   showed that ”we are already winning again,” then posted a nearly     video praising the company soon after the   administration’’s release. ’ ’   That video was pinned to the top of his account for a brief time. ’ ’   ”I’’m very pleased to announce that the great company ExxonMobil   is going to be investing $20 billion in the Gulf Coast and the   Gulf Coast region,” the president said. ”It’’ll be 45, 000 jobs,   and they’’re great jobs  —   $100, 000 average. And this is something   that was done, to a large extent, because of our policies and the   policies of this new administration having to do with regulation   and so many other things.” ’ ’   ”I said we’’re bringing back jobs, and this is one big example of   it,” Trump said. ”I want to thank very much ExxonMobil. Special   company. Special people.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tThere is an incredible spirit of optimism sweeping the country right now —  we’re bringing back the JOBS!  ” ”   In the paragraph that appeared to be lifted from the ExxonMobil   release and inserted into the White House’s release, it was made   clear that the investment was part of a plan that began in 2013. ” ’   ”Exxon Mobil is strategically investing in new refining and     projects in the U. S. Gulf Coast region to   expand its manufacturing and export capacity,” the release said.   ”The company’’s Growing the Gulf expansion program consists of 11   major chemical, refining, lubricant and liquefied natural gas   projects at proposed new and existing facilities along the Texas   and Louisiana coasts. Investments began in 2013 and are expected   to continue through at least 2022.” ’ ’   ExxonMobil told Business Insider that it passed along the news to   the White House hoping to shed light on its investment in the   region. ’ ’   ”Our objective was to illustrate a very significant investment   that we’’re making in the Gulf Coast region, which is creating   thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in economic activity  —     all thanks to the shale revolution,” Bill Holbrook, a senior   adviser for ExxonMobil, told Business Insider in an email. ”We   provided information about our announcement to the White House,   and they decided they wanted to issue a congratulatory press   release.” ’ ’   The touting of Exxon’’s move fit with Trump’’s promise that jobs   would be created in the country under his watch. But it entered a   ”gray area” in terms of ethically acceptable language and   promotion from the White House of an individual business, experts   said. ’ ’   ”They ought to be careful,” Richard Painter, a law professor at   the University of Minnesota and former top ethics lawyer for   President George W. Bush, told Business Insider. ”I mean, we   would advise them to distance themselves, congratulate a company   for the good work they do creating jobs, but not doing so much   that it looks like you’’re shilling for the company.” ’ ’   Painter said it was ”unusual” to be ”mentioning a particular   company this much.” ’ ”   Rep. Elijah Cummings, the ranking member on the House Committee   on Oversight and Government Reform, made his objection to Trump’s   promotion of Exxon’s move clear in a statement to Business   Insider. ” ’   ”The White House has now become the mouthpiece of the oil   industry  —   literally,” the Maryland Democrat said. ”This is   certainly the opposite of the president’’s promise to drain the   swamp.” ’ ”   Adding to the appearance of an ethical conflict is the fact that   Trump’s secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, was the CEO of   ExxonMobil until he was tapped to lead the State Department. ” ’  ’ ”   Tillerson  potential conflicts of   interest before his Senate confirmation hearing, announcing in   accordance with the company that he would receive a $180 million   retirement package if he were confirmed. In exchange, he gave up   the more than 2 million Exxon shares he would have received over   the next decade, which could be worth more than the payment if   Exxon’s stock appreciates in that time. ” ’   The   ethics watchdog group Citizens for   Responsibility and Ethics in Washington still saw a potential   conflict in the substantial praise of Exxon from Trump. ’ ’   ”The president went out of his way to praise the company that   until very recently was led by his secretary of state,” Jordan   Libowitz, a CREW spokesman, told Business Insider in a statement.   ”He went so far as to crib promotional material from the   business. There appears to be a pretty significant conflict of   interest there.” ’ ”   Painter said the promotion of Exxon’s move should avoid   significant scrutiny so long as Tillerson was not involved  —   and   it did not appear he was. But Trump’s move enters the same   territory as White House counselor Kellyanne Conway’s  in a   Fox News interview last month, asking viewers to buy the product. ” ’   While Conway’’s move was a ”blatantly obvious” violation of    Painter said, Trump’’s   posts were more borderline. He said it was in Trump’’s interest to   have jobs created in the US and that it was fair to congratulate   a company for doing so, just as Trump had done for other   companies such as Carrier, LL Bean, and Ford. ’ ’   ”But at what point does that cross the line to where you’’re   shilling for a company that your secretary of state formerly has   a close relationship with?” Painter said. ”At a certain point, if   this continues, could reach a point where the White House is   advertising for these companies. And then the companies are in   effect advertising through the White House.” ’ ”   Before Monday’s tweets praising Exxon  —   and before he nominated   Tillerson to lead the State Department  —   Trump had posted one   tweet mentioning the company. ” ’   ”Exxon donated $250g to Obama’’s inaugural,”  linking to a Breitbart News   story. ”I guess the Democrats have no problem accepting money   from ’’big oil. ’’” ’ ’President Trump raised eyebrows after he posted. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’