’  ’ ’   A private plane owned by a Russian oligarch who has ties to   President Donald Trump and his secretary of commerce flew into   cities where the   was campaigning before the   November election at least twice, flight data and photographs   have shown. ’ ’   The coincidence has raised questions about whether Trump met with   the oligarch,  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”No member of the Trump campaign or Mr. Trump met with Mr.   Rybolovlev during the campaign or any other time,” said the   official, who requested anonymity because they were not   authorized to speak publicly on the matter. ’ ’   The official continued: ”No one was even aware of the plane until   receiving a similar email about this yesterday. For a press corps   so obsessed with evidence, proof and feigning a general disgust   at even the hint of conspiracy, this is pretty rich.” ’ ’ Rachel Maddow and  have recently mainstreamed suspicion about the   peculiar timing of  ’ ’   ”This is garbage,” another White House official said when asked   about the reports. ’ ” on social media of Rybolovlev’s   Airbus A319, dubbed   along with theories about why the jet    —   which spends most of its time flying between major European   cities like London, Berlin, and Zurich,  ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tStunning Livery! Airbus A319     at Bern   ’ ”   Flight tracking data reviewed by Business Insider showed that    ’s stops in Las Vegas and Charlotte on October 30 and   November 3  —   with a stop in the small city of Concord, North   Carolina, to refuel before flying to Charlotte  —   are indeed   outliers. But the speculation about possible preelection   encounters between Trump and  ” ’  ’ ’   2008 was a rough year for Trump. According to  that was the year Trump Entertainment Resorts a   $53. 1 million bond interest payment and was forced to file for   Chapter 11 reorganization, or bankruptcy. ’ ’   Rybolovlev’’s cash infusion into Trump’’s bank account is believed   to be the most expensive home sale in US history. At that point,   big banks were highly reluctant to loan to Trump, who had lost   them money, as he wrote in his 2007 book, ”.” ’ ’   ”I figured it was the bank’’s problem, not mine. What the hell did   I care? I actually told one bank, ’’I told you you shouldn’’t have   loaned me that money. I told you the goddamn deal was no good,’’”   Trump wrote, according to . ’ ’  ’ ’   Rybolovlev has never lived in the mansion and has since torn it   down. He and Trump have both insisted that they never met at any   point during the historic transaction. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”     Sendgikoski, a limo driver who had been waiting to   pick someone up at Charlotte airport’s terminal for private jets,   told McClatchy that Trump and Rybolovlev’s planes appeared to be   about 300 feet apart on the tarmac the morning of November 3. But   she said she saw Trump walk off his plane and directly into his   motorcade, and didn’t see anyone get in or out of Rybolovlev’s   plane. ” ’   Reached for comment, Rybolovlev’’s spokesman, Brian Cattell, said   ”Mr. Rybolovlev and Mr Trump have never met.” He declined to   comment on why Rybolovlev’’s plane had been in Charlotte on   November 3, and whether Rybolovlev was on it. ’ ’A private plane owned by a Russian oligarch who. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’