’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans facing   stiff opposition from Democrats  of their  ’ ”   But they may face an even larger challenge from the   conservative media outlets that fervently supported Trump’s   candidacy. ” ’   Less than a day after the unveiling of the American   Healthcare Act, many conservative media figures and outlets   appeared lukewarm or outright opposed to the new bill, which   they criticized for falling short of cutting government   spending and the tax credits imposed by Obamacare that would   be partially kept in place by the proposed bill. ’ ’   Breitbart  Tuesday afternoon with a story titled ”Obamacare   2. 0 guts enforcement, gives illegal aliens healthcare through   identity fraud. Other than that. ...” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBreitbart is now unloading on “Obamacare 2. 0”  ’ ’   Other conservative figures, including radio host Laura Ingraham   and Twitter personality Mike Cernovich, slammed the bill,   accusing Republicans of cowardice. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWhy are Repubs always so scared to take the leap and take the fight to the Dems? Shortsighted.  ’ ” ’t’t’tGOP’s new Obamacare bill is more of the same. This is why we must defeat the   Republicans in the  . Patriots only! ’t’t” ’   Other   figures appeared hesitant to directly   criticize the plan. ’ ’   On his radio show Tuesday, Fox News anchor Sean Hannity urged   Republicans to ”hammer this out,” asking what Republicans could   do to avoid a ”civil war.” ’ ”   The Fox News host asked House Freedom Caucus member Rep. David   Brat  —   one of a  strongly opposed to the ACHA’s proposed   tax credits  —   what changes he needed to get behind the   current plan.  ” ’   ”I wish it was thought out better. I wish these meetings that I’’m   going to propose had taken place earlier,” Hannity said to   Brat, referring to forthcoming meetings between House Freedom   Caucus members and Republican leadership. ’ ’   He continued: ”What I don’’t understand is all these criticisms   that you guys had before the bill were in the bill anyway. Do you   think they just ignored it on purpose?” ’ ’   Observers also noted silence from some conservative media     as a sign of some hesitation on the bill. ’ ”   The Drudge Report  —   an influential news hub particularly among     news consumers  —   the news on Tuesday, instead highlighting news of   WikiLeaks’ dump of CIA   documents and  a     of conservative   author Ann Coulter   slamming the bill.  ” ’   Still, many skeptical   media figures stopped short   of slamming Trump outright. ’ ’  ’ ”   Hannity also avoided criticizing Trump, focusing instead on how   House Republicans failed to adequately address the Freedom   Caucus’ concerns with the bill’s shortcomings. ” ’President Donald Trump and congressional. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’