’   Gary Marcus, the   hire that was in charge of   Uber’’s AI Labs, is stepping down from his position at the   company after a short four months. In  Marcus said he will now become a ”special   advisor” to Uber’’s AI efforts.  ’ ’   ” ’ ’   Marcus joined Uber in December 2016 to much fanfare from the   company. Uber acquired his   startup, Geometric   Intelligence, and brought Marcus in to lead its new AI Lab. No   terms of the deal were disclosed at the time. ’ ’   ”In spite of notable wins with machine learning in recent years,   we are still very much in the early innings of machine   intelligence,” Uber exec Jeff Holden .   ”The formation of Uber AI Labs, to be directed by Geometric’s   Founding CEO    represents Uber’s commitment to advancing the state of the art,   driven by our vision that moving people and things in the   physical world can be radically faster, safer and accessible to   all.” ’ ”   At the time, Marcus told the Wall Street Journal that he planned   to hire aggressively and eventually open an office in the UK.   Yet, after four months, Marcus is no longer leading Uber’s AI   efforts, as .  ” ’’ ’   Uber confirmed his departure and a spokesman reiterated that the   company remains committed to its AI Lab and is super excited to   have the Geometric Intelligence team on board. ’ ”   His departure is the latest in a string of   names to   leave the company. Former Twitter engineer Raffi Krikorian    as a senior director of engineer   at Uber’s Advanced Technologies Center in late February. On   Wednesday, it was announced another key member of Uber’s     team, Charlie Miller,  Chinese rival Didi’s   car   lab. ” ”   Uber’s also had two executives resign as the   company investigates sexual harassment and gender bias in   its workplace. Last week, Amit Singhal  as SVP of engineering by Travis Kalanick   after it was revealed he didn’t inform Uber about previous   allegations of sexual assault. Later that week, Uber’s VP of   Product and Growth Ed Baker  under mysterious circumstances. ” ’Gary Marcus, the   hire that was. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’