’  ’ ”   North Korea’s   media announced its latest missile   launches were conducted to practice hitting US military bases in   Japan,  on Tuesday. ” ’   ”If the United States or South Korea fires even a single flame   inside North Korean territory, we will demolish the origin of the   invasion and provocation with a nuclear tipped missile,” a Korean   Central News Agency statement read. ’ ’   Three of the four ballistic missiles fired Monday morning flew   600 miles and landed in the sea in Japan’s exclusive economic   zone. The other missile landed outside the zone. ’ ”   Studying the photos provided by North Korea, analysts at the   Middlebury Institute of International Studies deduced that the   missiles were   Scuds. Having tested these missiles   in the past, Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia   Nonproliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute,   said that North Korea’s test was not to see whether they   could operate but to assess how fast units could deploy them. ” ’   ”They want to know if they can get these missiles out into the   field rapidly and deploy them all at once,” Lewis told The Post.   ”They are practicing launching a   missile and   hitting targets in Japan as if this was a real war.” ’ ”   The   Scud missiles could be produced more cheaply   than other   missiles in the Hermit Kingdom’s arsenal,   according to Lewis. This could be disastrous for allied nations,   such as Japan and South Korea, not only because North Korea could   release a barrage of these missiles, but the rate at which they   could be fired can be difficult to counter, even with the US’s   defensive systems. ” ’  ’ ’he antimissile   battery system, known as the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense   (THAAD) was in the process of being deployed on Monday   night in Osan Air Base, less than 300 miles from the missile   launch location. ’ ’   ”Continued provocative actions by North Korea, to include   yesterday’’s launch of multiple missiles, only confirm the   prudence of our alliance decision last year to deploy THAAD to   South Korea,” said Adm. Harry Harris, commander of US Pacific   Command, in a . ’ ’   Designed to shoot incoming missiles, THAAD has been compared to   shooting a bullet with another bullet. However, analysts say that   the system would have difficulty in intercepting missiles   launched simultaneously  —   as in Monday’s test. ’ ’   According to a KCNA statement translated by  Kim Jong Un, the leader of North   Korea, supervised the launches from the Hwasong artillery units,   who are ”tasked to strike the bases of the U. S. imperialist   aggressor forces in Japan in contingency.” ’ ’   The launches came shortly after an annual series of     Korea military exercises that kicked off earlier this month. The   ground, air, naval, and   exercises, which   consist of 17, 000 US troops and THAAD systems, was  by scholars to be met with some   retaliatory measures by North Korea. ’ ’   ”In spite of the repeated warnings from [North Korea] the United   States kicked off this month the   joint military   exercise with South Korea,” said North Korean diplomat Ju Yong   Choi during a   conference in Geneva on Tuesday,   according to Reuters. ”The annual, joint military exercise is a   typical expression of US hostile policy towards the DPRK, and a   major cause of escalation of the tension, that might turn into   actual war.” ’ ”North Korea’s   media announced its. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’