’  ’ ”   On Monday, the head of the White House’s National Trade Council,   Peter Navarro, laid out the objectives of his trade agenda in a   speech before the National Association of Business Economists. ” ’   The thrust of Navarro’’s speech was that the ”liberal trading   order” the world has known for 70 years has been unfair to the   richest country in the world. Bad deals have taken the most   valuable jobs  —   manufacturing jobs  —   from American workers. They   have boxed the US out of markets abroad. Countries like China are   engaging a strategy of ”conquest by purchase,” buying up US   assets, especially. ’ ”   Navarro didn’t just attack China  —   he picked on 15 other   countries, many of which are US allies. Their offense, he said,   is contributing to the US’s manufacturing trade deficit by   exporting more goods to our country than we do to theirs. That,   he said, has been a drag on US GDP growth for decades. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’   ”T ’ ’   The biggest problem with that comment is that here in 2017, the   sector of the economy that promises the most growth  —   and   overwhelmingly dominates the economy  —   is the services   sector.   ’ ’  ’ ’   Now, wages in the services sector vary. After all, ”services”   captures everything from retail employees and taxi drivers   to investment bankers and nurses. ’ ’  ’ ’   But instead of educating Americans for high paying services jobs,   Navarro insisted the government’’s focus should be to   ” ’ ’   He pinned America’’s manufacturing (and trade deficit woes) on 16   ”problem” countries, including Japan, South Korea, and Germany. ’ ’   ”While the percentage of Americans working in manufacturing is 8%   today, Germany by contrast which has some of the most advanced   robotics in the world continues to employ 20% of its workforce in   manufacturing.” ’ ’   In 2014, the International Monetary Fund calculated that if the   US manufacturing sector stood alone, it would be the  ’ ’   Germany’’s entire economy comes in fourth. One economist   and trade expert, Lee Branstetter from Carnegie Mellon, told us a   few weeks back that Germany is the ” ’ ’  ’ ”   If Navarro does want us to be like Germany, it’s definitely in a   very Single White Female kind of way. He’s envious   of its manufacturing sector, but he also considers the country a   currency manipulator for being in the euro, which includes weaker   economies that keep the value of the currency below where Navarro   thinks it should be. ” ’   Germany  ’ ’  ’ ”   The notion of even trying to get Germany to violate its pacts   with the EU has an incredibly chilling effect, because this is   where it’s clear that Navarro has no respect for another   country’s government or sovereignty. He does not see honesty or   fairness in even the US’s closest allies’ dealings with us. With   such a mindset, how can one even find a level playing field if it   ever existed? ” ’   Navarro also displayed a penchant he shares with President Trump   for spreading unverified claims that fit his worldview. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ”   Now thankfully, it is clear that Navarro’s ideas are radical even   within Trump’s economic policy team. ” ’   Last week Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told CNBC that he does   not consider Germany a currency manipulator. And in his speech   Navarro was visibly upset that he would have to wait until April   at least before Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin would determine   whether or not to designate China a currency manipulator  ’ ’   Navarro would clearly prefer to start charging at his perceived   enemies right away. ’ ’ For more on the future of Trump’’s trade wars (or peace)   listen to Business Insider’’s Linette Lopez and Josh Barro on   their podcast, ”Hard Pass”: ’ ’ ’ ”On Monday, the head of the White House’s. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’