’  ’ ’   FC Barcelona pulled off the single most stunning comeback in UEFA   Champions League history on Wednesday, rallying back from a       deficit against PSG to win the second leg of their   Round of 16 clash   and advance   on aggregate. ’ ’   Most stunningly, Barcelona needed  —   and then scored  —     three goals in the final seven minutes to win the match. ’ ’   Entering the game, Barcelona would need four goals to tie   PSG on aggregate to just force extra time. They got off to a   fast start, and took a   lead into halftime. They   tallied a third early in the second half to go up   leaving   them one goal away from leveling the slate. ’ ’   But then striker Edinson Cavani got one back for PSG, a   crucial away goal, which meant Barcelona would   need three to win, based on PSG holding the   tiebreaker with more away goals. That situation stood until the   88th minute, leaving even most optimistic Barςa supporters   thinking their dream was over. ’ ’   But then the impossible happened: Barcelona scored three times in   seven minutes to stun PSG and reach the Champions League   quarterfinal.  ’ ”   Let’s break this down: ” ’   In the 88th minute, up   but needing three goals, a Barcelona   victory looked impossible. Then, everything changed with   this perfect Neymar free kick: ’ ’ ’ ’   Two goals to go! ’ ’   Just two minutes later, Luis Suarez forced a penalty when he went   down in the box. Was it a dive? Perhaps! ’ ’   Either way, a penalty was called. Neymar stepped up to the line   and slotted the ball home, putting the score at   and     on aggregate. ’ ’ ’ ’   Only more more now! (Again, that Cavani away goal proved crucial,   because away goals in the Champions League are the tiebreaker,   meaning that if the final whistle had sounded, PSG would have   advanced.) ’ ’   Then, the refs announced five total minutes of stoppage time  —   an   eternity. Barcelona sent all 11 players forward, including goalie   Marc Andre Ter Stegen, and in the 94th minute a ball lofted into   the PSG box found the foot of Sergi Roberto. He   redirected it into the back of the net, and Barca led,     now, and, somehow,   on aggregate.  ’ ’ ’ ”Here’s the moment everyone’s talking about. Sergi Roberto’s goal completes the greatest comeback in  history. ” ’     ’ ”   Barcelona’s entire team mobbed the field, and fans in the crowd   were seen weeping. When PSG restarted after the goal, the final   whistle sounded.  ” ”   Champions League fans will surely recall Liverpool’s stunning   comeback against AC Milan in the 2005 final, when they came back   from a   halftime deficit to win.  ” ”   But Barcelona’s comeback was even more wild than that, because it   required a bigger deficit (four goals) and, again, three goals in   seven minutes.  ” ”   With the win,  advances once more to the   Champions League quarterfinal. If a     deficit isn’t   enough to beat them, it’s hard to imagine what will. ” ’FC Barcelona pulled off the single most. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’