’  ’ ”   A federal judge in Hawaii will hear arguments from state lawyers    regarding President Donald Trump’s revised   executive order restricting travel from six     countries. ” ’   The lawyers are seeking a temporary restraining order on the ban,   which was signed on Monday, weeks after the original order was   challenged in courtrooms across the country and ultimately   blocked from reinstatement by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. ’ ’   The  no longer bars current visa holders and green   card holders from entering the US, and removes Iraq from the list   of affected countries, which now include just Iran, Syria,   Somalia, Sudan, Libya, and Yemen. It also includes Syrian   refugees as part of its   refugee admissions suspension,   whereas previously Syrian refugees were barred indefinitely. ’ ’   Unlike the original order, this ban also gave advanced notice of   its implementation, which will occur March 16 unless a judge   grants a restraining order. ’ ’   State attorneys for Hawaii argued in their  that the order will cause ”grave injury” to   Muslims in Hawaii, and will affect its foreign students and   workers and upset the state’’s   economy. ’ ’   ”President Trump’’s new Executive Order is antithetical to   Hawaii’’s State identity and spirit,” the complaint argues. ’ ’   ”It is damaging Hawaii’’s institutions, harming its economy, and   eroding Hawaii’’s sovereign interests in maintaining the   separation between church and state as well as in welcoming   persons from all nations around the world into the fabric of its   society.” ’ ’   The state’’s attorneys argued that the revised order violates the   First Amendment and Fifth Amendment by having the effect and   intent of ”disfavoring Islam,” inflicting harm on Hawaii’’s   residents, discriminating against individuals based on their   religion and nationality, and violating individuals of due   process rights. ’ ’   The complaint lists its lead plaintiff as Ismail Elshikh, the   Imam of the Muslim Association of Hawaii, whose      lives in Syria and could be prevented by the ban from obtaining a   visa to visit the state. ’ ’   The state’’s lawyers argued that Elshikh and his family will be   subjected to ”discrimination and   treatment.” ’ ”   The complaint also noted that the state hosts 12, 000 foreign   students and international faculty members, many of whom are from   the seven countries identified in Trump’s original order,   including at least 27 graduate students currently studying at the   University of Hawaii. ” ’   Foreign students paid more than $400 million into the Hawaiian   economy through their tuition, fees, and living expenses, and   supported 7, 590 jobs and generated more than $43 million in state   taxes, the complaint said. ’ ’   The lawyers also argued that tourism is Hawaii’’s ”lead economic   driver,” bringing in 8. 7 million visitors in 2015 alone, who   accounted for $15 billion in spending. ’ ’  ’ ’   The complaint, like those against Trump’’s first order, uses in   its arguments previous statements Trump has made, such as those   calling for ”a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering   the United States” and accusing the American immigration system   of ”importing radical Islamic terrorism to the West.” ’ ’   ”President Trump repeatedly campaigned on the promise that he   would ban Muslim immigrants and refugees from entering the United   States, particularly from Syria, and maintained the same rhetoric   after he was elected,” the complaint said. ’ ’   The lawyers also included in the complaint several comments made   by Trump allies that appear to call into question the intent of   Trump’’s order. The complaint cites comments made by former New   York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who told Fox News that Trump had   consulted him on how to legally implement a ”Muslim ban.” ’ ”   Also cited is Trump’s senior adviser Stephen Miller, who told Fox   News last month that Trump’s revised order would have the same   effect as the original one. ” ”   The lawsuit also sought to undercut Trump’s claims that the order   was urgently needed to prevent terrorist attacks. The suit   referred to a recent  that found that no fatal terrorist attack in the US   since 1975 was perpetrated by a national of one of the six   countries. ” ’   It also referred to a draft Homeland Security report published by   the Associated Press that found that citizenship was an ”unlikely   indicator” of terrorism threats against the US, and that half of   the 82 people inspired by a foreign terrorist group to attempt or   carry out a terrorist attack in the US were citizens who had been   born in the country. ’ ’   ”Defendants have exceeded their statutory authority, engaged in     and   discrimination, and failed to   vindicate statutory rights guaranteed by the Immigration and   Nationality Act,” the lawyers argued. ’ ’   ”The Executive Order purports to protect the country from   terrorism, but sweeps in millions of people who have absolutely   no connection to terrorism.” ’ ’A federal judge in Hawaii will hear arguments. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’