’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s administration, its media boosters, and   its critics are playing a game of nickname hot potato with the   Republican bill to repeal and replace Obamacare. ” ’   Much like Republicans shifted the conversation to dub Democrats’’   healthcare overhaul ”Obamacare,” opponents of the   American Health Care Act are trying to pin the bill on   a single politician. ’ ’   The only difference with the AHCA is that there are now two   alternatives being thrown out: ”Trumpcare” and ”Ryancare.” ’ ’   Trumpcare seems to be the tag of choice for many Democrats.   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer called the bill ”Trumpcare”   on  ’ ’   The Trump team, however, has pushed back on the name. White   House spokesperson Kellyanne Conway pushed for the use of the   official name instead of ”Trumpcare” during an interview   with Fox News on Wednesday. ’ ’’ ’   ”I’’ll call it Trumpcare if you want to, but I didn’’t hear   President Trump say to any of us, ’’Hey, I want my name on that,’’”   Conway said. ”We’’re happy it is the American Health Care Act.   This is serious stuff. This isn’’t branding according to someone’’s   name.” ’ ’   Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price also deferred   when asked whether he would call the bill ”Trumpcare” at a White   House press briefing on Tuesday, saying he would ”let others   provide a description for it” and that he liked ”Patientcare”   better. ’ ’   After his administration discouraged it through much of his   first term, President Barack Obama  as far back as 2011,   saying it showed he cared about Americans. (Polls have   shown  when it is called   ”Obamacare” rather than the ”Affordable Care Act,” however.) ’ ’   The American Health Care Act’’s other emerging nickname,   ”Ryancare”  —   a nod to House Speaker Paul Ryan  —   has popped   up in a diverse group of places. ’ ’     websites, including Breitbart, have pinned the   ”Ryancare” label on the AHCA because of reasons stemming from   discontent  —   they do not think the bill goes far enough in   repealing Obamacare. ’ ’   At the same time,   websites like the Daily Kos   and Daily Beast have used the ”Ryancare” moniker to   attack the law for going too far and possibly leading   to the loss of health coverage for millions of Americans. ’ ’   The conservative group Club for Growth similarly used the moniker   in its rebuke of the healthcare bill. ’ ’   As the bill progresses through the House and Senate, it remains   to be seen which of the names  —   if any  —   will stick. ’ ”President Donald Trump’s administration, its. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’