’  ’ ”   At Atlanta’s Fulton County Jail, one out of every five inmates is   affiliated with an organized gang. ” ’   But behind bars, rival gang members behave a little differently   than they do on the outside. In fact, the biggest threat to   gang members in jail often comes from within their own gang. ’ ’   That’’s what Nate, one of the undercover participants on A&E’’s   documentary series ”60 Days In,” learned during his stay at   Fulton County Jail. ’ ’   The show, now in its third season, follows nine volunteers who   enter the jail for two months under false identities in order to   expose problems from within the system. ’ ’   ”I didn’’t see any issues between opposing gangs,” said Nate, who   did not use his last name on the show. ”Rival gangs tended   to coexist.” ’ ’   Much more common was   violence between members of   different branches, or sets, of the same gang, such as     Bloods and   Bloods. And the gangs would go to great   lengths to conceal their internal disputes from the rest of the   inmate population, Nate told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”The thing is, the gang doesn’’t want to show civilians that they   are fighting within the gang,” he said. ”So what they do is they   hold a meeting in a cell and make sure no civilians are around.   Two individuals have them fight in the cell for a period of time    —   there’’s a set amount of time, and then it’’s squashed. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”They take care of it that way, and you never even know anything   happened unless any of them have marks.” ’ ’   On the other hand, when occasional violence between rival gangs   did erupt, there was no hiding it. ’ ’   ”If it was another gang, they’’d take care of it in the outside so   everyone would see it,” Nate told Business Insider. ”That way it   would be a warning.”  ’ ’     fights were arranged by the gang leaders, who   were inmates with the most street credibility, or ”stain,” in the   outside world, Nate said. The leaders would call other gang   leaders on the outside and get the fight approved. Fights   generally lasted 20 to 30 seconds depending on the gang, he said. ’ ”   Any minor slight could provoke a fight, Nate said, from gossiping   behind another gang member’s back to publicly disrespecting   them. ” ’  ’ ’   The two  of ”60 Days In,” which were filmed at Clark   County Jail in Jeffersonville, Indiana, also highlighted . Some of the undercover   participants were shocked by the casual attitude toward   violence held by many of the inmates  —   something that   surprised Nate as well. ’ ’   ”You’’d give it, like, a good four, five minutes after a fight,   and everybody would be back to laughing, back to chilling,” he   said. ’ ”   As many as 500 of the jail’s 2, 500 inmates are affiliated with   gangs, according to data provided by chief jailer Col. Mark   Adger. His staff goes to great lengths to ensure rival gang   members do not get paired in cells together  —   a safe   measure, considering inmates at Fulton County Jail spend 15 hours   a day in their cells. ” ’   For new inmates, who are constantly being tested and provoked by   those higher on the social ladder, the allure of a gang can   be tough to resist. ’ ’   ”They desperately want to fit in to keep from being   victimized, and the lifestyle starts to grow on them,” Adger told   Business Insider. ”That is usually what happens when people   come to jail.”  ’ ’   Episode 2 of the third season of ”60 Days In” airs tonight at 9   p. m. EST on A&E. ’ ”At Atlanta’s Fulton County Jail, one out of. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’