’  ’ ’   It didn’t last long. ’ ’   Immediately before and after his   speech to a joint   session of Congress on Feb. 28, President Trump curtailed his use   of Twitter. ”For precisely four days, eight hours and five   minutes, Trump refrained from tweeting anything inflammatory,”   the Washington Post . ”That’s 6, 245   consecutive minutes!” ’ ’   That   began to break down on the evening of March   2, just two days after his big speech, when Trump accused   Democrats of having    and engaging in a “total ” ’ ’   Just before 1 p. m. the next day, he  a picture of Vladimir   Putin and Sen. Chuck Schumer ( . Y.) having coffee and donuts,   lifted directly from the  accompanied by   the mock demand for “an immediate investigation into @SenSchumer   and his ties to Russia and Putin. A total hypocrite!” ’ ’   Then a few hours later came a picture of Rep. Nancy Pelosi   ( .) meeting with Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and   Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in 2010 underneath the : “I hereby demand a   second investigation, after Schumer, of Pelosi for her close ties   to Russia, and lying about it. ” (It took the president with the    three   tries to spell  correctly, having   first tried “hear by” and “hearby. ”) ’ ’   The presumption behind those tweets was that there was some kind   of ethical or legal equivalence between the public meetings that   Democratic lawmakers held with Russian leaders and the lies  —   in   Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s case under oath  —   that Trump   aides told about their own private meetings with Russian   representatives while Putin was intervening in the presidential   election to help Trump. This notion can only be credible to the   most purblind Trump partisans  —   the same people who would take   seriously Trump’s even more sensational allegations, soon to   come. ’ ’  ’ ’   At 6:35 a. m. on Saturday, March 4, the president of the United   States  from his weekend   getaway,   : “Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my   ‘wires tapped’ in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing   found. This is McCarthyism!” ’ ’   A few minutes : “Is it legal for a   sitting President to be ‘wire tapping’ a race for president prior   to an election? Turned down by court earlier. A NEW LOW!”   Followed : “How low has President   Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election   process. This is  . Bad (or sick) guy!” (“Tapp”?   “Hearby”? Doesn’t Trump’s phone have a  ?) ’ ’   Having supposedly uncovered a scandal comparable to Watergate,   what did the president do next? He took a respite from Twitter   for more than an hour, until 8:19 a. m. when he sent out an    against the actor who   replaced him on The Celebrity Apprentice: “Arnold Schwarzenegger   isn’t voluntarily leaving the Apprentice, he was fired by his bad   (pathetic) ratings, not by me. Sad end to great show. ” (So much   for Trump’s premature  to Congress on Tuesday   night that the “time for trivial fights is behind us. ”) And then   he headed out for a nice round of . ’ ’   It was left to Trump’s aides, the news media, and members of   Congress to answer the “Huh? ?? What? ??” questions. Had Trump   actually gotten his hands on classified information that the FBI   had wiretapped him during the Obama administration? ’ ’  ’ ’   There are only two ways this could have occurred: Either the FBI   had presented a court with evidence that Trump was engaged in   criminal activity or was an agent of a foreign power, or Obama   had ordered an illegal wiretap. Either conclusion would be   scandalous. But after a frantic weekend of      whatsoever was   presented by the White House to support Trump’s allegations,   which were  by everyone from   Obama’s spokesman to James Clapper, the former director of   national intelligence, and FBI Director James Comey. ’ ’   It’s possible that Trump aides were wiretapped as part of a   broader FBI probe into the connections between the Trump campaign   and the Kremlin or were simply recorded, as had been the case   with former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, during the   routine monitoring of Russian officials. But there is no reason   to think that Trump himself had been a target of the wiretapping,   nor that Obama interfered in the lawful workings of the FBI. ’ ’   It appears that Trump had gotten his information not from a     briefing but from a Breitbart  long on innuendo and   short on verifiable facts. ’ ’   One would be tempted to say that the president’s reliance on   “alternative facts” to smear his predecessor is the real scandal   here were it not for the fact that an actual,      scandal  —   one that may conceivably rival Watergate  —   is at the   bottom of this ruckus. ’ ’   Why, after all, did Trump have a midweek meltdown that dashed   pundits’ hopes that he would act in more sober fashion? The   answer is as obvious as it is significant: On the evening of   March 1, the day after his lauded speech, major new revelations   emerged about the mysterious links between the Trump camp and the   Kremlin. ’ ’   The New York Times was first out of the gate that evening with a   story : “American allies,   including the British and the Dutch, had provided information   describing meetings in European cities between Russian officials    —   and others close to Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin  —   and   associates of   Trump, according to three former   American officials who requested anonymity in discussing   classified intelligence. Separately, American intelligence   agencies had intercepted communications of Russian officials,   some of them within the Kremlin, discussing contacts with Trump   associates. ” ’ ’   The Times story would have been big news were it not almost   immediately overshadowed by a Washington Post  with an even more   alarming finding: “ . Jeff Sessions ( .) spoke twice   last year with Russia’s ambassador to the United States, Justice   Department officials said, encounters he did not disclose when   asked about possible contacts between members of President   Trump’s campaign and representatives of Moscow during Sessions’s   confirmation hearing to become attorney general. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Smaller but still significant revelations followed the next day.   The Wall Street Journal  that Donald Trump Jr.   “was likely paid at least $50, 000 for an appearance late last   year before a French think tank whose founder and his wife are   allies of the Russian government in efforts to end the war in   Syria. ” (What could Trump Jr. say that would possibly be worth   $50, 000?) ’ ’   J. D. Gordon, Trump’s national security advisor during the   campaign,  that, contrary to his earlier   denials, he had directly intervened at Trump’s instigation to   remove the language in the 2016 Republican platform which had   called on the United States to arm Ukraine against Russian   aggression. And campaign advisor Carter Page  that, contrary to his   earlier denials, he had met with the Russian ambassador at the   Republican National Convention. It is hard to imagine why so many   people would lie if they didn’t have something pretty significant   to cover up. ’ ’   Out of all of these revelations it was the news about Sessions  —     which may open him to perjury charges  —   that was the most   significant. ’ ’   In response to the Post report, the attorney general was forced   to recuse himself from the Kremlingate inquiry, much to the    of President Trump, who   was not consulted about this decision. This is what led to   Trump’s   rants on Twitter, designed to distract from the   real scandal and to convince his more credulous followers that he   is the victim of a plot by his predecessor. ’ ’   But why would Sessions’ recusal make Trump so unhinged? The   president must have felt relatively confident that the   “Kremlingate” probe would go nowhere as long as it was in the   hands of Trump partisans such as Sessions, Rep. Devin Nunes of   the House Intelligence Committee, and Sen. Richard Burr of the   Senate Intelligence Committee. But with Sessions out of the   picture, the way is now clear for the deputy attorney general  —     either the current placeholder, career Justice Department   attorney Dana Boente, or Trump’s nominee to replace him, Rod   Rosenstein, another career government lawyer  —   to appoint a   special counsel because of the  surrounding this   case. ’ ’  ’ ’   A special counsel would not have the same degree of autonomy as   the independent counsels who in the   era probed     misconduct until the law authorizing such   appointments expired in 1999. Independent counsels were appointed   by, and answerable to, a   panel; special counsels can   be appointed, and fired, by the Justice Department. But a special   counsel would be expected to investigate much more aggressively   than the White House would like, and firing a special counsel   would only aggravate the scandal. ’ ’   In addition to a special counsel, Congress could and should   appoint a joint select committee to look into Kremlingate and   issue a public report, but a special counsel would be likely to   conduct a more professional investigation and, unlike lawmakers,   would possess the power to indict, which may help loosen the   tongues of suspects. ’ ’   There is a good reason why Trump and his partisans are so   apoplectic about the prospect of a special counsel, and it is   precisely why it is imperative to appoint one: because otherwise   we will never know the full story of the Kremlin’s tampering with   our elections and of the Kremlin’s connections with the president   of the United States. As evidenced by his desperate attempts to   change the subject, Trump appears petrified of what such a probe   would reveal. Wonder why? ’ ’It didn’t last long. Immediately before. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’