’  ’ ”   White House press secretary Sean Spicer got into a testy exchange   with several reporters during Friday’s press briefing over former   National Security Adviser Mike Flynn’s paid lobbying for Turkish   interests. ” ’   Flynn, who was fired from his White House job,  with the Justice Department   earlier this week. He earned $530, 000 for his lobbying work,   which was carried out before Election Day. ’ ”   A reporter asked Spicer about this arrangement, questioning   whether President Donald Trump was aware of Flynn’s lobbying. ” ’   ”Can you say that the president was informed at all about this   arrangement . .. needing to register as a foreign agent?” the   reporter asked. ’ ’   Spicer said no. ’ ’’ ’   The reporter then questioned whether the reports of Flynn’’s   lobbying ”set off any alarm bells within the administration.” ’ ’   ”Just so we’’re clear, you wouldn’’t, Gen. Flynn filed with the   Department of Justice two days ago,” Spicer said. ’ ’   The reporter then asked, ”What about the need to file?” ’ ’   ”That’’s up to his personal lawyer,” Spicer said. ”I mean, again,   each person that goes through the process in government seeks   counsel in many cases regarding the assets they own and the   activities they conducted, as to what they have to do or not do.” ’ ’   Spicer continued: ”But this is something that, you know,   it’’s like asking whether someone needed to file, if they have a   client, whether or not they needed to file a lobbying disclosure   form. That’’s not up for us to determine. That’’s up for them and   their counsel to determine if they engaged in activities in the   past or whatever it is, or if a doctor needed to go an up their   certification, that’’s not up for the government to determine.   There are certain private citizen’’s activities that you conduct   and you seek counsel on or professional advice. That’’s not up to   the government. And that’’s exactly how the system worked.” ’ ”   Fox News’ John Roberts then asked how that didn’t raise a   red flag. ” ’   Spicer cut him off and said, ”You already had your question,   John.” ’ ’   But Roberts continued. ’ ’   ”You have an attorney calling the transition that the person who   is in line to be the national security adviser may need to   register as a foreign agent,” Roberts said. ”And that   doesn’’t raise a red flag?” ’ ’   ”It’’s not a question of raising a red flag, John,” Spicer said.   ”It’’s a question of whether or not they gave them the advice   they’’re supposed to, which is it is not up to them to make   decisions as to what you need to do or not do. As you know, there   are certain activities that fall under each of these requirements   as far as what the threshold is, what activities, who the funding   source was, etc. etc. It is not up to, nor is it appropriate, nor   is it legal, for the government to start going in private   citizens seeking advice and telling them what they have to   register or not.” ’ ’   He continued: ”That would be the equivalent of walking through   someone’’s tax return and saying ’’that’’s not a deduction that you   should take, that is. ’’ That’’s why when you contact these   agencies, they will tell you you should seek counsel or   professional advice or expertise in whatever matter it is. That   is not up to them to determine. Plain and simple.” ’ ’   Another reporter then asked a   question, pointing out   that ”this was an issue of judgment about who you guys wanted in   your administration.” ’ ’   ”There were published reports that your potential national   security adviser had dealings with the government of Turkey, a   controversial regime at this moment in time,” the reporter said.   ”Congressman Cummings sent a letter to Mike Pence during the   transition informing him of this and raising a red flag. Mr.   Pence was on television I believe yesterday saying twice he had   no knowledge of that letter.” ’ ’   Spicer cut in. ’ ’   ”Hold on, before you accuse the vice president of certain things,   know what he said is he was not aware of the filing,” Spicer   said. ”Just so we’’re clear. And he wasn’’t. Go on.” ’ ’   The reporter started again. ’ ’   ”Just in terms of the larger question here  —   forget about filling   out forms and the legalisms here,” he said. ”What does this say   about the transition team’’s judgement about still appointing him   as national security adviser when you had knowledge of this   information?” ’ ’   Spicer said he can’’t ”forget about the legalisms.” ’ ’   ”What I’’m saying is that’’s what we did,” he said. ”They consulted   a lawyer, which everyone who had something is advised to do, that   lawyer consulted the transition lawyer who said it is your job to   consult the appropriate lawyers.” ’ ’   The reporter retorted that he was ”talking about the judgement   that the president, the vice president, and your team made to   select this man as national security adviser when you had   information that he had these dealings with Turkey.” ’ ”   Spicer responded by listing Flynn’s qualifications. ” ’   ”What dealings are you referring to, the fact that he had a   client?” he said. ”He was also the head of the Defense   Intelligence Agency, unbelievably qualified, 40 years in the   military, with impeccable credentials, I mean, so what is it,   that he, I mean what exactly are you getting at? Because so far,   he has impeccable credentials, he had a stellar career in the   military, widely respected, and I think for you to start to   impugn his integrity —  ” ’ ’   The reporter interrupted, but Spicer cut him off. ’ ’   ”There was no disclosure at the time,” Spicer said. ”And the   question is if his counsel worked with whomever he worked with   and determined that he didn’’t, that’’s up to him. . .. The burden   is on the individual to seek the legal advice or professional   expertise to decide what they have to file and not. . .. That is   not up to the transition attorney to go through someone’’s   livelihood and determine what they need to seek.” ’ ’   Another reporter then asked whether the Trump administration is   concerned that others advising the president might also be   lobbying on behalf of foreign governments. ’ ’   ”This is like saying . .. can you tell me that the executives at   NBC News have gone through every single person’’s and reporter’’s   background?” Spicer said. ”We trust people to fill out the forms   that they are required to do so in an honest and legal manner.   And in this case, he retroactively filed the forms that he was   supposed to do but we advised him to do what the legal and proper   thing was and that’’s the right thing for this administration.” ’ ’   Spicer said the White House expects ”every employee to follow the   law” and Trump instituted a   ban on lobbying. ’ ’   ”He has ran on a commitment to drain the swamp,” Spicer said. ”He   has been very committed to making sure that we institute high   standards here and that we’’re held to them.” ’ ’White House press secretary Sean Spicer got. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’