’  ’ ”   AUSTIN, TX  —   Former Vice President Joe Biden may have left   office in January, but that hasn’t stopped him from stumping. ” ’   Biden spoke on Sunday at the  ’ ’  ’ ’   Biden and his wife, who both received a standing ovation at the   conference, are now working on the Biden Foundation, which   advocates for many of the issues crucial during his political   career from cancer research and military families to community   college access and ending violence against women. ’ ”   Biden is currently raising money to continue the Moonshot   Taskforce’s work and, while private philanthropy is important, he   said on Sunday that federal budgets for research are even   more important. ” ’   ”Billions and billions of dollars [for research] comes from tax   payers. Your government, that many of you don’’t like, is the   vehicle of how this [curing cancer] gets done,” Biden told the   crowd. ’ ’   As such, Biden vowed to work with the Trump Administration   to continue the fight against cancer.  ’ ’   ”I’m confident we can get through it. I’’m confident we can get it   done. And I’’m confident that the new admin, once it gets   organized, and I”m not being facetious, it will be as   enthusiastic of ending cancer as know it. I promise to do   everything in my power to work with new organization to end   cancer,” Biden said. ’ ’   During the SXSW speech, Biden relayed how he became the leader of   the Moonshot Task Cancer (paraphrased): ’ ’   While the federal government has taken on cancer before  —   most   notable in 1971, under President Nixon  —   Biden said that he felt   that by ”injecting an overwhelming sense of urgency,” he and   others could change the how we fight cancer.  ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The Moonshot project created collaborations between 20   government agencies or departments and over 70 private   sector partners. ’ ”   One of Biden’s biggest successes was convincing pharmaceutical   companies to work together to figure out how their drugs could   work in tandem and how much each could be expected to be paid   when drugs are prescribed together.  ” ’   In addition, he helped pass on the biggest bipartisan bills in   2016  —   the 21st Century Cures Act, a $6. 3 billion bill that   also provides $1. 8 billion of funding over seven years for the   Cancer Moonshot’s scientific priorities. ’ ’   To Biden’’s surprise, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell   presided over the decision to rename the research project ”The   Beau Biden Initiative.” ’ ’   After he set up agreements for researchers across the world to   share their data, he received an unexpected call from Amazon, who   told him that they would provide the cloud space for the cancer   data for free. ’ ’   ’ ’     ’ ’AUSTIN, TX  —   Former Vice President Joe. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’