’  ’ ”   ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos on Sunday grilled the new   director of the Office of Management and Budget over Republicans’   plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare. ” ’   In an interview on ”This Week,” Stephanopoulos pressed Mick   Mulvaney over whether President Donald Trump was walking back his   wildly ambitious campaign promises to repeal Obamacare while   replacing it with a plan that offered more coverage at a cheaper   price while not making cuts to Medicare or Medicaid. ’ ’   ”So far, the independent analyses of your bill show that 6 to 15   million Americans are going to lose their coverage they now have   under Obamacare, and there will be about $370 billion less in   federal funding for Medicaid for the next 10 years,” the anchor   said. ”So how do square that impact with the president’s   promises?” ’ ’   Mulvaney argued that the analyses of the effects of the   replacement plan introduced last week by House Republicans,   called the American Healthcare Act, overestimated the   positive impact of Obamacare, saying struggling insurance markets   in some states may not increase coverage. ’ ’   He added that when he was a member of Congress,   he purchased healthcare through one of the exchanges. ’ ’   ”I was on Obamacare when I was in the House. My family   deductibles were over $15, 000 a year. Other folks who don’t make   as much money as I did were on the exact same plan. Do you think   they could afford to go to the doctor? That’s what we’re trying   to fix  —   not coverage for people, not coverage they can’’t afford,   but care they an afford.” ’ ’   Stephanopoulos continued to press the new OMB director. He cited   analyses from the nonpartisan Joint Tax Committee, which has    that the bill will   provide hundreds of billions in tax cuts to Americans making over   $1 million annually, and the  which said the   legislation would force older Americans and people who make   less to pay more for insurance.   ”How is that fair?” Stephanopoulos asked. ’ ’   Mulvaney dismissed the estimates, arguing that the AARP was   ”not in the business of fixing things” and instead was ”trying to   protect their own   to and to raise money.”   ”That’’s the same group, AARP, that did the television ads of a   guy that looks a lot like Paul Ryan pushing granny off the edge   of a cliff back when we first started talking about budgetary   reforms back in 2010. And my guess is that the millions of emails   that that group and other groups are sending out today have a   little ’’click here to donate’’ button at the bottom,” Mulvaney   said. ’ ’   The exchange became heated after Mulvaney disagreed   with the point that critics claimed the plan was a ”massive   transfer of wealth from   Americans to     Americans.” ’ ’   ”Millions are going to be paying more and the wealthy are going   to be getting a tax cut. But let me move on now to the state of   the union,” Stephanopoulos said.   ”George, I’m sorry  —   I won’t let you move on from that,” Mulvaney   interjected. ”I mean, you’re taking that as if it’s gospel truth.   That’s the argument of a group of people who don’t like the bill.   So we repeal the taxes in Obamacare. It’s what the Republicans   have done from the very beginning. The fact that certain groups   will pay less tax is not central to the issue. We’ve done this in   a fashion that allows the people who cannot afford healthcare now   to get it.” ’ ’   The two continued to spar over the president’’s promise, which   Mulvaney claimed would expand ”care,” but may not extend   ”coverage.”  ’ ’   ”Those who are getting subsidies right now, they’re going to be   getting fewer. The tax credit is going to be worth less than the   subsidies and insurance companies are going to be free, under   your bill, to charge older Americans more,” the ABC   anchor said.   ”You’re falling into the exact same trap I talked about at the   opening of this segment. You’re worried about getting people   covered,” Mulvaney said, before Stephanopoulos cut him off. ’ ’   ”The president said he wanted everyone covered, sir. The   president said that,” Stephanopoulos interjected.   ”He wants everybody to get care. And that’s what we are doing,”   Mulvaney replied.   ”That’s not what he said. The president said he wants to everyone   covered,” Stephanopoulos said. ’ ”   Following the bill’s introduction last week, many politicians and   groups from the right and left sides of the political   spectrum panned its proposals. ” ’   While the bill is likely to face universal opposition from   Democrats in both chambers of Congress, it is unclear whether it   even has the necessary Republican support to pass. ’ ’   Many members of the House Freedom Caucus, a coalition of the most   conservative members of the House, have publicly opposed the   current version of the bill, arguing that the bill does not   adequately eliminate some of the tax credits imposed by   Obamacare. ’ ’   Some Senate Republicans like Sen. Tom Cotton voiced similar   concerns with the bill, arguing that not only was it   moving too fast through the House, but that it   also risked an electoral backlash for Republicans if it   passed. ’ ’   ”I’’m afraid that if they vote for this bill, they are going to   put the House majority at risk next year,” Cotton said on   ”This Week” on Sunday. ’ ’   He added: ”We should take a pause, try to solve as many as   the problems on both Medicaid and the individual insurance market   in this bill in the House, and then allow the Senate to take its   work up.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tWATCH: OMB Director Mick Mulvaney on health care bill: ”What people want is to get care. ”   ’ ’     ’ ’ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos on Sunday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’