’  ’ ’   The   car space is getting increasingly more   cutthroat. ’ ’   The sheer number of lawsuits filed recently are a testament to   that. ’ ’   Tesla, for example, is suing its former Autopilot director   Sterling Anderson. The  claims Anderson stole data for a   competing venture, Aurora Innovations, that hasn’t even come out   of stealth mode yet. Aurora denies the claims. ’ ’   Buried in that lawsuit, though, was some  on the competitive   nature of the industry and the kind of culture it has bred: ’ ’   ”In their zeal to play   traditional automakers have   created a    environment. Small teams of programmers   with little more than demoware have been bought for as much as a   billion dollars. Cruise Automation, a   firm, was   purchased by General Motors in July 2016 for nearly $1 billion.   In August 2016, Uber acquired Otto, another   startup   that had been founded only seven months earlier, in a deal worth   more than $680 million.” ’ ’   (Otto is currently at the heart of a  Alphabet’s      company, alleging Uber stole intellectual   property.) ’ ’   So why is it that tiny startups with little to no brand   recognition are getting acquired for millions? AI   specialists told Business Insider it has little to do with   acquiring the startup’s tech and everything to do with nabbing   talent. ’ ’   That’s because there’s a serious lack of experts in the field of   deep learning, a branch of artificial intelligence where   computers learn on their own. Deep learning is key to advancing     tech as it allows cars to learn safe driving at a   much faster rate than traditional programming. ’ ’   ”The growth of demand is much faster than the rate of which we   can produce people with PhDs or even master’s in this area,”   Yoshua Bengio, head of the Montreal Institute for Learning   Algorithms, told Business Insider. ”There’s just an explosion of   interest from the industry. .. and it’s like a fire growing on the   prairie.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Machine learning has advanced rapidly in the last five years. ’ ’   In March of last year, a program developed by Google DeepMind, a     AI lab,  at the highly complex   game of Go  —   a game that has more moves than there are atoms   in the universe. ’ ’   That’s not even the latest feat in artificial intelligence. In   January, a bot developed by Carnegie Mellon University    at Texas Hold ‘Em, sweeping them of $1. 8 million. ’ ’   Companies are only expanding their AI teams as the field rapidly   develops. ’ ’   ”Because machine learning and artificial intelligence is growing,   companies are poaching professors all the time,” Geoff Gordon, an   associate research professor of machine learning at CMU, told   Business Insider. ’ ’   But automakers, in particular, are making massive investments in   experts because they’ve begun their AI efforts late compared to   traditional tech companies. ’ ’   Because deep learning has applications far beyond just     cars, manufacturers are having to compete with each   other and traditional tech companies. ’ ”   Only 28 companies have more than 10 deep learning specialists on   staff, accounting firm KPMG wrote in a . What’s more, only six technology   companies employ 54% of all deep learning specialists: Google,   Microsoft, NVIDIA, IBM, Intel, and Samsung. ” ’   ”The traditional power and talent of the auto industry was based   in their product development group,” Gary Silberg, the head of   KPMG’s automotive unit, told Business Insider. ”So they would   hire these amazing mechanical and electrical engineers at the top   schools of engineering and they would be part of product   development.” ’ ’   ”You can’t just turn on a dime and say, ’’ok, now we are going to   go recruit AI geniuses and computer scientists and expect them to   come to work with us,’’” Silberg continued. ’ ’  ’ ’   Companies pursuing   cars have turned to the   universities with the brightest minds in the space to acquire   talent. ’ ’   In March 2015, Uber gutted Carnegie Mellon University’s AI and   robotics center. The   service  including Anthony   Stentz, who had served as the director for the last       years. ’ ’   A few months later, Uber announced a strategic partnership with   the university to create the Uber Advanced Technologies Center   for   cars. ’ ’   Andrew Ng, a renowned deep learning expert, left Stanford to   become Baidu’s chief scientist in 2014. Baidu has a permit to   test its   vehicles in California and has tested its   cars in China. ’ ’   Universities are struggling to fill the void left by these   poachings. ’ ’   Companies have created a bottleneck where they are looking for   talent at a rate that’s impossible to produce, said Bengio, the   University of Montreal professor who is considered a pioneer in   deep learning. It takes about five years for the average doctoral   candidate to get his or her PhD. ’ ’  ’ ’   The problem is amplified by the fact that professors are leaving   universities to work at tech and auto companies. ’ ’   ”The demand for people who want to work in this area is growing   but the bottleneck is that there are not enough academic labs,   not enough professors to supervise all these students who want to   get into this field,” Bengio said. ’ ’   Gordon said CMU is definitely seeing an increase in the number of   people who want to specialize in deep learning. For the upcoming   academic year, CMU’s machine learning doctorate program received   800 applications. It had received 300 applications just two years   prior. ’ ’   Bengio said he gets 600 applications every year for students who   want to study machine learning at the University of Montreal. He   can only teach around 20 students. ’ ’   That growing interest in machine learning is encouraging, but   classroom sizes can only expand so much with a limited pool of   professors. ’ ’   ”There are very few experts in this area until quite recently and   many of them are being snapped up by industries because they are   in so much of a need for that expertise,” Bengio said. ”So now   you have even less professors than you did just a couple of years   ago.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The shortage of AI talent means the going rate for specialists is   high, especially for startups, which allow companies to acquire   talent in bulk. ’ ’   GM bought San   startup Cruise Automation for    in March 2016. Uber bought      startup Otto in a  last August. ’ ’   More recently,  in     startup Argo AI. That investment will be spread out over 5 years. ’ ’   Julie   Ford’s human resources director, said the   Argo AI investment is indicative of how Ford has changed its   strategy to recruit and retain talent as demand for artificial   intelligence experts rises. ’ ’   ”As we’ve shifted from being an automotive company to being   automotive and mobility we’ve seen an increase need for tech   talent,”   told Business Insider. ”So in places like   machine learning or AI or robotics  …     we see a greater need for   ourselves at Ford and also a more competitive market for that   particular talent.” ’ ’     said Ford is looking to buy more talent in bulk   because it also helps them recruit in the future. ’ ”   Argo AI is   by Bryan Salesky, the former director of   hardware for Google’s    efforts, and Peter Rander,   Uber’s engineering lead at its autonomous cars center. ” ’   Those kinds of connections make it easier for Ford to acquire the   kind of talent that has traditionally worked for major tech   companies. ’ ’   Bengio said the Argo AI investment is indicative of how ”the game   has been in the last couple of years.” ’ ’   ”The sad thing is most of these are just for recruiting,” he   said. ”It’s kind of a loss for the economy because most often the   projects these small companies had don’t continue once they’ve   been integrated into the company  …    . It’s kind of a waste of   resources and investment in some sense.” ’ ’The   car space is getting. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’