’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   Aides to U. S. President Donald Trump on   Sunday attacked the credibility of the nonpartisan agency that   will analyze the costs of a replacement for Obamacare, as the   White House sought to quell opposition from many Republicans. ’ ’   The Congressional Budget Office, which provides official   estimates of the budget impact of proposed legislation, is   expected to issue a report as early as Monday that will assess   the healthcare legislation put forth by Republican House of   Representatives leaders. ’ ’   The report could influence sentiment toward a bill that is   already under fire from both Democrats and many conservative   Republicans, especially if it suggests the legislation would   reduce the number of Americans with health coverage or that it   would worsen U. S. budget deficits. ’ ’   In a series of television interviews, White House budget director   Mick Mulvaney and top White House economic adviser Gary Cohn said   that the CBO is focusing on the wrong metrics with the estimates   it will provide on the number of people who are insured. Cohn and   Mulvaney said CBO should instead should analyze whether patients   can actually afford to go to a doctor. ’ ’   ”I love the folks at the CBO, they work really hard, they do, but   sometimes we ask them to do stuff they’’re not capable of doing,   and estimating the impact of a bill of this size probably isn’’t   the   isn’’t the best use of their time,” Mulvaney told ABC’’s   ”This Week” program. ’ ’   Speaking on Fox News, Gary Cohn, director of the White House   National Economic Council, said: ”We will see what the score is,   in fact in the past, the CBO score has really been meaningless.” ’ ’   ”They’’ve said that many more people will be insured than are   actually insured. But when we get the CBO score we’’ll deal with   that,” Cohn said. ’ ’  ’ ”   The Trump administration’s criticisms of the CBO are unusual.   Prior administrations, both Republican and Democratic, have   steered clear of attacking the credibility of the agency, which   many lawmakers regard as a neutral arbiter. The CBO’s current   director, Kevin Hall, was appointed by Republicans in 2015. ” ’   Republicans have long opposed Obamacare, formally called the   Affordable Care Act, on the grounds it was government overreach   and led to higher insurance premiums. The 2010 law, Democratic   President Barack Obama’s signature legislation, provided 20   million previously uninsured Americans with health coverage. ’ ”   The credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s has estimated 6   million to 10 million people could lose health insurance coverage   under the Republican plan. ” ’   Senator Bernie Sanders, who ran for president in 2016 as a   Democrat, said it was ”cowardly” for Republicans to proceed with   a healthcare bill without CBO estimates, telling CBS’’ Face the   Nation show: ”This is a disgrace.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In recent weeks, Trump administration officials and Republican   lawmakers have criticized what they said were overly optimistic   estimates from the CBO of the number of Americans who would sign   up for health insurance on   exchanges. ’ ’   CBO estimated in 2013 that 22 million people would be purchasing   insurance through the exchanges in 2016. But only 10. 4 million   were signed up for these plans by the middle of last year,   according to Department of Health and Human Services data. ’ ”   The House Republican legislation would scrap tax penalties for   Americans without health insurance, roll back an expansion of   Medicaid insurance for the poor, and replace Obamacare’s     subsidies with a system of fixed tax credits to help   people buy private insurance on the open market. ” ”   Last week, ratings agency Standard and Poor’s estimated that 6   million to 10 million people could lose coverage if the   Republican plan passes. ” ”   Cohn also disputed the notion that millions of people on   Medicaid, the government health care system for the poor, would   become uninsured as Obamacare’s expansion of the program is   rolled back over a period of years. He said that many of these   people would be transitioned into new private and     plans that would become more affordable under   the Republican plan. ” ’  ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan, the Republican plan’’s top backer in   Congress, said he is ”certain” that the CBO will show a reduction   in the number of Americans with coverage. ’ ’   ”You know why? Because this isn’’t a government mandate,” Ryan   told NBC’’s Meet the Press. ’ ”   But conservative Republicans said they could not support the plan   without significant changes. Republican Representative Jim Jordan   of Ohio, a founder of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, said   it does not go far enough to meet Republicans’ promise to kill   Obamacare. ” ’   ”We told them we were going to replace it with something that   would bring down the cost of insurance. That’’s what we told   them,” Jordan told Fox News Sunday. ”This legislation that the   speaker’’s brought forward doesn’’t do that.” ’ ’   Cohn and Mulvaney also said that the Trump administration was   open to changes in the bill. ’ ’   Republican Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas said the plan as   written would not pass the Senate and could put the Republican   House majority at risk. ’ ’   ”I believe it would have adverse consequences for millions of   Americans and it wouldn’’t deliver on our promises to reduce the   cost of health insurance for Americans,” Cotton said. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Reporting by David Lawder; additional reporting by Doina Chiacu;   Editing by Caren Bohan and Grant McCool) ’ ’WASHINGTON (Reuters)   Aides to U. S. President. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’