’  ’ ’   LONDON  —   Theresa May has been given the power to   trigger Article 50  —   the   formal process by which Britain   will leave the EU  —   after both houses of parliament voted to pass   the Brexit bill unamended. ’ ’   MPs overturned two amendments to the Brexit bill that would   have protected the rights of EU citizens living in the UK and   ensured that parliament had a ”meaningful vote” on the terms of   Brexit at the end of the Article 50 negotiating process. ’ ”   The Lords then accepted the Commons’ decision on Monday   night, paving the way for Prime Minister May meet her   timetable and . ” ’   Despite talk of a potential Tory rebellion in the Commons, both   amendments were rejected with relative ease. ’ ’   Just two Tory MPs rebelled on the issue of EU citizens rights and   none at all on the issue of a meaningful final vote. Six Labour   rebels joined with the Conservatives to vote down both   amendments. ’ ’’ ’   Brexit minister David Davis insisted that the government’’s verbal   promise to protect the residence rights of EU citizens in the UK   was ”binding” and rendered that particular amendment unnecessary. ’ ’   ”When a minister gives an undertaking at this despatch box it is   binding commitment,” Davis told MPs during a debate on   the issue of whether the rights of EU citizens would be   guaranteed. ’ ’   Earlier in the day, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn  an ”emergency rally” outside parliament   after only around 100 supporters turned up to protest against the   government’’s refusal to accept the EU citizens amendment. ’ ”   His decision to whip Labour MPs in favour of passing the   Brexit bill, means only the Liberal Democrats the SNP and   the Green party’s one MP voted against. ” ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The passing of the bill came on the same day that Scottish First   Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced her intention . ’ ”   The Scottish National Party leader told a press conference in   Edinburgh on Monday morning that Britain’s imminent exit from the   European single market gives her the mandate to give Scots   another chance to vote on independence. ” ”   Sturgeon has long promised to give Scotland another referendum if   May refuses to compromise on a number of issues regarding Brexit,   perhaps the biggest being the Scottish First Minister’s desire to   keep Scotland in the single market. ” ’   May said that another independence referendum would bring   ”economic uncertainty at the worst possible” time. A spokesperson   for the prime minister said:  ’ ”   Sturgeon wants the referendum to take place sometime between   autumn 2018 and spring 2019, which would be midway through   Britain’s departure talks with the European Union. ” ’MPs reject the 2 Brexit bill amendments put. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’