’  ’ ’   House Republicans like to say their health plan is all about   offering Americans choices. So what does it say about those   choices if 52 million Americans, offered health insurance in the   market designed to Republican specifications, will choose to buy   no insurance at all? ’ ’   The broad strokes of the  are this: ’ ’   Democrats will point to the insurance coverage loss number  —     24 million more Americans without insurance  —   as evidence   that this bill is terrible. ’ ”   Republicans will respond that if people were only buying   insurance because of the individual mandate, what’s so great   about that? The goal isn’t to force people to buy coverage  —   it’s   to give them choices so they can do what they like. ” ’   The big problem with the ”choice” argument is this: If   their plan is all about choices, how come they couldn’’t come   up with choices that appeal to those 52 million Americans   who won’’t buy coverage under their plan? ’ ’’ ’   There are a lot of people who don’’t like the insurance plans   offered to them. But the number of people who would say, in the   abstract, ”I would prefer not to carry health insurance,” is very   small. They want to be offered health insurance that they find to   be a good value. ’ ’   In practice, people who go uninsured under the Republican   plan will do so for one of two reasons. ’ ”   One is that they won’t be able to afford to buy an insurance   plan. In some cases, insurance under this plan will be     expensive: Even after a tax credit, CBO estimates a     premium of $14, 600 for a     —   even if   his or her income is as low as $26, 500. ” ’   Other people will go uninsured even though they could afford to   pay for insurance because they will decide the available   insurance does not provide a good value. ’ ’   Under the Affordable Care Act, many people complain about high   deductibles and   that mean their health insurance does   not seem to actually pay for the healthcare they need. This   proposal would lead to even more ” ”  —   which   is to say, higher   and deductibles. ’ ”   That is, the CBO report says that, for tens of millions of   Americans, the only choices that would be available under the GOP   proposal are insurance plans they won’t have the money   to pay for, or insurance plans they won’t believe are worth   buying. ” ’   That is a poor outcome for a healthcare policy that is   supposed to be all about ”choice.” ’ ’House Republicans like to say their health plan. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’