’  ’ ”   Documentary filmmaker Jason Pollock vehemently defended the    about Michael Brown’s death during an   interview with CNN host Brooke Baldwin Monday afternoon.  ” ’   Pollock, whose documentary, ”Strange Fruit,” premiered at the   South by Southwest Festival on Saturday, claims the new security   tape featured in the film points to a   of evidence on the   part of Ferguson police, and a false narrative painted about   Brown by city officials.  ’ ’   At around 1 a. m. the night before he was shot, ”you can clearly   see Michael Brown walking into the store, you see him then make   an exchange. He trades a little bag of weed for two boxes of   cigarillos,” Pollock said when Baldwin asked him to tell the   audience what the video showed. ’ ’   ”We see a trade take place,” he continued. ”The security tape in   question then shows Michael Brown handing the cigarillos back to   store employees for what Pollock says is safekeeping until he   returns the next day. Towards the end of the video, it appears   that Brown goes back to the store the following morning. Pollock   has implied that Brown went back to pick up his cigarillos. ’ ’   ”Don’’t tell me that he stole from the store if they handed him a   bag [of cigarillos] that they created themselves . .. anybody who   sees this with their eyes can see what’’s happening,” Pollock   said.  ’ ’   Critics of the unearthed footage, however, have fired back   at Pollock and accused him of doctoring the video. ’ ’   ”I can now confirm that the uncut video shows the clerks throwing   [the bag of marijuana] back to Mike Brown. The filmmaker edited   it out,” said a statement by Jay Kanzler, who represents the   store and its employees. ’ ’   Pollock brushed the criticism aside. ”There isn’’t another video,”   he said when Baldwin read Kanzler’’s statement. ”Bring it on!   Bring it on, Jay. Bring it on!” ’ ’   He also lambasted police department officials for what he called   an attempt to cover up all the evidence. ’ ’   ”[St. Louis County Chief of Police] Jon Belmar gave a statement   that he didn’’t know about [the new footage],” Pollock said.   ”Well, Chief Belmar, it’’s in your report. So either you don’’t   read your report, or somebody’’s lying.” ’ ’   He added: ”So the real question now is: who knew about this   video, when did they know about it, who did they talk to, who   covered it up, who wrote the wrong report, and how high up the   chain does this go?” ’ ’   Pollock also leveled criticism at the press when Baldwin asked   how he first got his hands on the footage.  ’ ’   ”Brooke, I got my hands on this tape because I decided . .. to do   real investigative journalism, because I was tired of watching   how the news was reporting this issue,” Pollock said, before   laying into the media for its handling of Donald Trump’’s   candidacy and eventual victory in the 2016 election.  ’ ’   ”And we wonder how Donald Trump got elected   a man who lies 60   to 70% of the time. The media could have done its job,” Pollock   said, before Baldwin cut him off.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tProsecutor calls filmmaker “pathetic” over new Michael Brown video.  & Brown’s dad say ”bring it on!”  ’ ’Documentary filmmaker Jason Pollock vehemently. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’