’  ’ ”   House Speaker Paul Ryan, who has invested nearly all his   political capital into repealing and replacing President Barack   Obama’s signature health law, finds his fate suddenly tied this   month to whether he can deliver on the Republican Party’s   promise to send a bill with   health solutions to   President Donald Trump’s desk. ” ’   ”You can’’t underscore how important this is to the speaker,” said   Republican strategist and   president of the Potomac Strategy Group. ”From a policy   standpoint, it’’s becoming more closely identified as his rather   than the president’’s.” ’ ”   Ryan’s mission, however, will not be easy. His proposal has   already faced a number of setbacks, from Democrats and   Republicans alike. ” ”   Democrats remain staunchly opposed to repealing Obamacare, while   some Republicans, like members of the House Freedom Caucus and   Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, don’t think Ryan’s legislation goes   far enough to advocate for   solutions. ” ’   The plan, as has been laid out, consists of three ”phases,” the   first of which is an initial budget reconciliation bill that   requires 50 Senate votes if passed through the House. The GOP   holds 52 seats, making every vote critical. ’ ’’ ’   But the political forecast only seems to be growing darker for   Ryan. ’ ’   On Monday, a report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget   Office said the plan would lead to roughly 24 million fewer   Americans being insured over the next decade. ’ ”   And although Trump has backed the plan, reliably   outlet   Breitbart, which helped launch Steve Bannon into his role at   the White House, has established itself as the bill’s top   critic on the right. ” ’   This week,  released a tape of Ryan   telling House Republicans in October that he would not   defend Trump after   audio of Trump making lewd comments   about women was released. The comments from Ryan had been   reported on at length in October, but audio had never been   published.  ’ ’   Another   Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax,  that Trump should instead focus   on a proposal that expands Medicaid and Medicare, rather than the   AHCA. ’ ’   ”I think the degree of difficulty in what they’’re trying to do is   off the charts, given the constituencies, given the procedural   challenges, and given the kind of state of play of the country   politically,” Mackowiak said. ’ ’ added that this is a ”big year”   for Ryan and ”a big part of why he was willing to be speaker.” ’ ’   ”Look, Ryan didn’’t want to be speaker, he was very reluctant   about doing this in the first place,” . ”He was able because he had a lot of leverage, to   structure the position in a way where he could do the things he   wanted to do and have other members do the things he didn’’t want   to do.” ’ ’   The bill is a part of the three planks to which Ryan has   dedicated much of his political career: healthcare, tax reform,   and entitlement reform. As Mackowiak put it, he’’s been thinking   about those items ”seriously” for the better part of two decades. ’ ’   ”Now he has a chance, a real opportunity to have major   achievements in those areas,”  explained.   ”So I do think he has a lot riding on this. I also think if this   were to go down one way or the other, it would imperil his   ability to have achievements on the other issues he cares about.” ’ ’   Kurt Bardella, formerly a senior adviser and spokesman for the     House Oversight Committee, told Business Insider   in an email he thinks Ryan ”has foolishly put himself in a     situation.” ’ ’   While Mackowiak said the criticisms of the bill are overblown,   adding that all three phases need to be in place before the   legislation can be truly judged, Bardella said if ”TrumpCare”   passes at Ryan’’s push, the speaker ”will have shilled for one of   the worst pieces of legislation EVER at the expense of his   majority.” ’ ’   ”If it fails,   are already laying the groundwork   [for Ryan] to be the fall guy, and his position as speaker will   come under attack,”  said. ’ ’”Had Paul Ryan stood by his   actual principles vs. becoming one of Trump’’s lapdogs, he would   have at least retained his own moral high ground and had a   platform to lead the GOP for many years to come. Instead, the   minute Trump became president, he, like so many in the GOP,   rolled over and are on the wrong side of 24 million Americans who   are about to lose their health care coverage.” ’ ’   Another top Republican strategist said he thinks the biggest   problem with the rollout so far has been the Ryan team’’s   explaining of the legislative process, saying that they’’re   ”frustrated” by the current debate because it’’s been mostly   discounted that the bill will in all likelihood face some major   changes in the Senate if it arrives there. ’ ’   ”So the House and Speaker Ryan in turn are taking way more arrows   than they need be right now,” the strategist said. [This is]   the first step of many. They need to start explaining that better   to people. It’’s not a final bill.” ’ ’   If they don’’t explain that aspect better, the strategist said,   House Republicans  —   and chiefly Ryan  —   will ”get saddled with   every negative outcome.” But, even as Breitbart slams Ryan with   persistence, the strategist said he didn’’t see a political   threat to the speaker. ’ ’   ”There were some stumbles out of the gate,” the person said.   ”The speaker has done a pretty admirable job pulling it together   and making the best case. He’’s out there alone right now, but he   can handle it.” ’ ”   And, for the GOP, it’s not just Ryan who has a lot on the line. ” ’   ”All Republicans have a lot riding on this,” Mackowiak said.   ”Whether they realize that or not.” ’ ’House Speaker Paul Ryan, who has invested. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’