’  ’ ’   One Republican talking point about  showing   that their health plan would cause 24 million people to lose   health insurance is this: A large chunk of that coverage loss is   because their plan repeals the individual mandate. ’ ”   Under Obamacare, those people will be forced to buy health   insurance. Under the Republican plan, they have the freedom not   to buy insurance they don’t like. Aren’t they better off? ” ”   This is a bad argument. And it’s an argument Republicans   make because they know the individual mandate is the most   unpopular part of Obamacare but don’t understand why it   is so unpopular. ” ”   People don’t want to be forced to buy health insurance, but   that’s not because they want the freedom to go uninsured. ” ”People want to be offered health insurance that   they’re happy to buy. And the Republican plan, which   would leave 52 million Americans uninsured by 2026, fails to do   that in lots of cases. ” ’’ ”   Now, that’s partly because in a lot of cases, the only way you’re   going to get Americans to happily buy health insurance is to   price it far below cost. This is how the Medicare   prescription drug benefit works: It’s not mandatory, but   participation is   because premiums cover only   about 14% of the costs, and the government picks up the other   86%. ” ’   Republicans might protest that’’s not what ”choice” means. You   might like the choice of   housing or     restaurant meals, but that doesn’’t mean the   government should give them to you. ’ ’   But this often is what ”choice” means in the political context.   ”School choice” is a policy of giving children free or heavily   subsidized education. And health are, like education, is a sector   of the economy in which voters have come to expect the   government to pick up part of the tab  —   whether through   Medicare, Medicaid, the enormous tax subsidy for     insurance, or the Obamacare subsidies that   have proven surprisingly popular once you try to repeal them. ’ ’   Republicans got mileage for years by talking about choice in   healthcare. Now that it’’s time for them to actually make law,   they are poised to learn that most voters who wanted   choice did not mean ”a system where 52 million Americans will   make the ’’choice’’ to be uninsured.” ’ ’One Republican talking point about the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’