’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump is hitting the road starting Wednesday to   drum up support for the GOP’s replacement of Obamacare, with   strategic visits to states in the southern part of the US. ” ’   The two   stops will try and win over two   different audiences that need to come onboard for Trump   and Republicans to pass the the American Health Care Act  —     the bill that would repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. ’ ”   With strong opposition from both parties, think tanks, and   industry groups, Trump’s ability as a campaigner  —   and a salesman    —   will be on full display during his visits. ” ’   The first stop on the ”Trumpcare” tour comes in Nashville,   Tennessee, on Wednesday. ’ ”   The state is a perfect place for Trump to make his     case that Obamacare is collapsing, and that his base should   support the GOP’s alternative. ” ’’ ’   For one thing, experiences in Tennessee highlight the increasing   premium costs faced by some Americans under Obamacare. In 2017,   the average benchmark silver plan offered on the individual   health insurance exchanges  according to the Department of   Health and Human Services. ’ ”   Secondly, the decrease in choice that Trump and Republicans bring   up so often is also an issue in the state. Four of the state’s   exchange regions have just one insurer offering plans. ” ”   Even Tennessee’s state insurance commissioner Julie Mix McPeak   said in August that  ” ’   ”I’’m doing everything I can to prevent a situation where that   turns to zero,” she said at the time. ’ ’   The statistics provide ample opportunity for Trump to hammer   at the negatives of Obamacare, countering the rise in popularity   for the ACA, which has been hitting its highest approval   ratings ever in numerous polls. ’ ”   The other scheduled stop on Trump’s tour will come Monday in   Louisville, Kentucky. ” ’   This presents a different challenge for Trump, because the ACA   was generally a positive for many Kentuckians. It forces the   president to build a case for why the AHCA is a better   alternative. ’ ’   After the passage of the ACA, former  the ACA by taking   on both the Medicaid expansion offered by the ACA and creating   the   individual health insurance market called Kynect. ’ ’   Compared to the broader ACA, Kynect was relatively popular with   those in Kentucky, and the percentage of the people   without health insurance fell the most of any state between 2013   and 2016, declining from 20. 4% of Kentuckians uninsured to   7. 8% a 12. 6 percentage point fall. ’ ’   The stats will force Trump to not only have to make the case   for why the ACA is collapsing, but also why the AHCA would   be better. This will prove more difficult, since   analysis from the Congressional Budget Office and health   policy experts have shown that support in the form of tax   credits . ’ ”   The visit is also about a single politician as well: Sen. Rand   Paul, a fellow Republican.  of the AHCA and   criticized the GOP’s plans to repeal and replace Obamacare even   before the introduction of the law. ” ’   The visit to Paul’’s home state will be a chance for Trump to push   back on his criticism that the AHCA does not go far enough   in its repeal of the ACA, and that there needs to be a bigger   overhaul of the healthcare market.  that the senator would ”come   along with the new and great healthcare program.” ’ ’President Donald Trump is hitting the road. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’