’  ’ ’   Attorney General Jeff Sessions vowed on Wednesday to ramp up   enforcement of drug crimes to combat what he says is a nationwide   increase in violent crime, a move some experts say channels the   ”drug war” era of the 1980s.  ’ ’   Sessions delivered a speech to law enforcement officers in   Richmond, Virginia, where he touted the effectiveness of Project   Exile, a   old program that enforced mandatory minimum   sentences on felons caught carrying firearms.  ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’My fear is that this surge in violent crime is not   a ’’blip,’’ but the start of a dangerous new trend,” Sessions said.   ”I worry that we risk losing the   gains that have made   America a safer and more prosperous place.” ’ ’   Sessions outlined three main ways to fight the ”scourge” of   drugs: criminal enforcement, treatment, and prevention. He   highlighted prevention campaigns  —   including Nancy Reagan’’s   ”” efforts  —   as effective tools for bringing down rates   of drug use.  ’ ’   The results of ”Just Say No,” and similar     prevention campaigns like D. A. R. E, are mixed.  from the University of Missouri, St.   Louis found that the programs are mostly   and   ineffective. ’ ’   However, a 2011 study,  from the University of Texas   School of Public Health found that certain abstinence programs   can be effective, provided they reinforce the lessons over a     time period.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Criminal justice and drug policy experts say that Sessions’’   focus on cracking down on drug offenders is an unwise strategy   borne out of the ”War on Drugs” era of the ’’80s and   ’’90s.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”He appears intent on taking us back to the 1980’’s with his drug   war rhetoric,” Collins told Business Insider. ”Locking up   more people exacerbates the problem.”  ’ ’   Marc Schindler, the executive director of the Justice Policy   Institute, criticized Sessions support of Project Exile, which he   called ”political will” to remove bheavily   penalizes gun offenders, according to Schindler, but does   nothing to stem the flow of guns into cities and neighborhoods. ’ ’   ”T ’ ’   The research on Project Exile is far from clear. : A  found that in Richmond, Virginia  —   where Sessions gave   his speech  —   the city would have experienced a similar reduction   in homicide rates with or without Exile. ’ ”   But, a  found evidence supporting Exile’s   efficacy. Among the sample group, cities with high levels of   federal prosecution for federal gun crimes experienced a 13%   decrease in violent crimes, compared to an 8% increase in cities   that didn’t, even when controlling for other factors like   incarceration rates and poverty.  ” ’   However, ”n ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Sessions honed in on  on Wednesday,   saying that he ”realizes this may be unfashionable   in ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Though he’s opposed to marijuana legalization, Sessions did tell   reporters after his remarks that he may keep the   Cole   Memo  —   which directs the Justice Department to place a low   priority on prosecuting legal marijuana businesses that comply   with state laws  —   though with some modifications, reports   .  ” ’   Sessions indicated that the federal government may not have the   ability to enforce federal marijuana laws in states that have   legalized. ’ ’   Mason Tvert, the communications director for the Marijuana Policy   Project, told Business Insider in an email that Sessions’’   comments do not seem like a ”call to shut down” licensed and   regulated marijuana businesses. ’ ’   ” ’ ’Sessions wants to crack down on drug. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’