’  ’ ’   US attorney in Chicago Zachary Fardon published a sobering    on Monday after he submitted his resignation. ’ ’   In his letter, Fardon spoke at length about the most consistent   problem that plagues Chicago: gun violence.  ’ ’   The former US attorney, who assumed his position in 2013, said   that, ”At no moment during those three and a half years did the   gun violence abate. Every month, every year, innocents died, kids   died.” ’ ’   The   atmosphere in Chicago kicked into   overdrive following the  in 2014,   Fardon wrote. The police released video of the incident more than   a year after the shooting occurred, after which the   Superintendent of the Chicago Police Department was fired and the   US Department of Justice announced it would be  into the CPD. ’ ’   The straw that broke the camel’’s back, according to Fardon, was a   deal that the ACLU struck with the CPD, which mandated that   officers complete ”contact cards” for every street encounter they   had. ’ ’’ ’   ”That ACLU deal grew out of a lawsuit about stop and frisk, but   the contract that settled the lawsuit swung the pendulum hard in   the other direction by telling cops if you (officer) go talk to   those kids on the corner, you’’re going to have to take 40 minutes   to fill out a form, and you’’re going to have to give them a   receipt with your badge number on it,” the letter said. ’ ’   It continued: ”So by January 2016 [when the deal was struck] the   city was on fire,” because police were under public scrutiny   and many did not want to risk stopping a suspect. They scaled   back on some of their responsibilities towards public safety as a   result of that, Fardon said.  ’ ”   This string of events led to, in his view, a splintering of   Chicago’s law enforcement and an uptick in gun violence. He also   wrote about other   factors that played a role.  ” ’   Chicago’’s rate of violence can be traced back, Fardon said, to   the prevalence of gangs in Chicago’’s south and west sides.   ”For decades, those neighborhoods have been neglected,” Fardon   said. ”The reasons for that historic run of neglect are rooted in   ugly truths about power, politics, race and racism that are a   tragic part of our local and national history and heritage.” ’ ”   Fardon ended his letter by articulating a number of suggestions   to federal and local leaders that could heal the city’s scars and   restore trust between citizens and law enforcement.  ” ’US attorney in Chicago Zachary Fardon published. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’