’  ’ ’   In its quest for Cold War military superiority, the United States   detonated more than 1, 000 nuclear weapons. ’ ”   Government researchers blew up  on the ground and others in ocean atolls.   Yet as threats moved into space and concerns increased about   fallout  —   soil and other material that’s sucked into a blast and   becomes radioactive  —   the US exploded 210 of the  high in the atmosphere. ” ”   Thousands of films of such blasts, made from 1945 through 1962,   were analyzed and locked away in   vaults. It’s   likely no one has seen the footage for decades. ” ’   But on March 14, after more than 55 years of collecting dust, the   US declassified 750 of the   films  —   and released dozens   of the digital scans . We first heard about the movies   from the writer Sarah Zhang . ’ ’   A team of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory scientists led   the rescue effort over the past five years. The films are made of   nitrate cellulose and slowly decompose in the air while releasing   a vinegar smell, according to . ’ ’   ”This is it. We got to this project just in time,” Greg Spriggs,   a   physicist at LLNL, said in  about   the digitization effort. ”We know that these films are on the   brink of decomposing, to the point where they will become   useless.” ’ ’ ’ ”   The project isn’t just about shedding daylight on the   controversial . ” ”   Spriggs said it’s also about getting lost data about     test blasts, which are prohibited around the world   by the Comprehensive    Treaty yet poorly   understood. (The US, however,  the treaty.) ” ’   ”We don’’t have any experimental data for modern weapons in the   atmosphere,” he said. ”The only data we have are the old tests,   so it gets a little bit more complicated.” ’ ”   The data may help researchers better understand the effects of   nuclear explosions and manage the  in the US’s stockpile. ” ’   ”We found out that most of the data published was wrong,” Spriggs   said. ”We decided we need to   and reanalyze all of the   films.” ’ ’  ’ ’   About 10, 000 of the movies were made, at speeds of thousands of   frames per second to slow down   explosions. ’ ’   However, it took LLNL roughly five years to locate about 6, 500 of   the films, then digitally scan 4, 200 of those. Spriggs said that,   so far, the team has reanalyzed between 400 and 500 films. ’ ’   Jim Moye, a   expert and   veteran, helped   scan and archive the footage. ’ ’   ”It is going to be gone at some point, and we don’’t have forever   to do this,” Moye said in the video. ’ ’   The project is important to ”help certify that the aging US   nuclear deterrent remains safe, secure, and effective,” LLNL   wrote in its YouTube video description. ’ ’   Spriggs said the team was learning new details about the   detonations  —   lessons he hopes to pass on to future generations. ’ ’   ”It’’s just unbelievable how much energy’’s released,” Spriggs said   in the release. ”We hope that we would never have to use a   nuclear weapon ever again. I think that if we capture the history   of this and show what the force of these weapons are and how much   devastation they can wreak, then maybe people will be reluctant   to use them.” ’ ”   You can watch all of the newly declassified movies in LLNL’s   YouTube playlist: ” ’ ’ ’In its quest for Cold War military superiority. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’