’  ’ ”   White House press secretary Sean Spicer sparred with reporters in   a contentious Thursday press briefing over President Donald   Trump’s explosive wiretapping claims, on which bipartisan Senate   leaders . ” ’   Spicer had confrontational    exchanges with   several reporters, including ABC’’s Jonathan Karl and CNN’’s Jim   Acosta, the latter of whom the president has previously referred   to as ”fake news.” ’ ’   Karl began by asking Spicer about the Senate Intelligence   Committee leaders’’ Thursday  saying there were ”no   indications” Trump was wiretapped, which the president accused   President Barack Obama of illegally doing. ’ ’   Earlier in the week, Spicer said he was ”extremely confident” the   Department of Justice would find evidence to back up Trump’’s   claim. ’ ’   Spicer launched into a lengthy,   rant after Karl   presented him with this information, saying the media does not   cover similar statements from the agencies when they are in favor   of Trump’’s position on an issue, such as possible   ties to Russia. When something has the opposite slant,   Spicer said, it is covered ”ad nauseam.” ’ ’   He also insisted the president, who said as much in   a Wednesday interview with Fox News host Tucker Carlson,   meant surveillance generally when he tweeted about wiretapping.   At one point, Spicer engaged in a shouting match with Karl and   asked the ABC White House correspondent to ”calm down.” ’ ”   Spicer then cited a number of sources he believed backed up   the White House’s side of the argument. He listed reports   from the New York Times, Heat Street, and Circa News, as   well as a diatribe from unabashed   Fox News   host Sean Hannity. ” ’   Karl followed up after the lengthy rehashing of news   reports, asking if the president still stands by his allegation   even after both the House and Senate intelligence committees   suggested it was untrue. Spicer said that the ”House and the   Senate has not been provided all the information,” prompting a   rebuke from a spokesperson to Senate Intellignece Committee Vice   Chair Sen. Mark Warner.  ’ ’   ”The bipartisan leaders of the Intelligence Committee would not   have made the statement they made without having been fully   briefed by the appropriate authorities,” the spokesperson said. ’ ’   Spicer said Trump still stands by his assertion,   circling back to asking Karl why he wasn’’t ”coming to the   defense” of the intelligence committees when they were disputing   connections to Russia. ’ ”   That’s when Acosta followed up. ” ’   ”You were just quoting Sean Hannity there,” he said, later adding   Spicer was also citing Fox News contributor Andrew Napolitano. ’ ’   Spicer said Acosta was ”cherry picking” the sources he was   citing, reiterating that he listed The New York Times. ’ ”   But Acosta went back to mentioning what was stated by the   intelligence committees, refuting Trump’s assertion. ” ’   Spicer continued doubling down on his previous points. ’ ’   ”That sounds like, Sean, what you and the president are saying is   ’’well, we don’’t mean wiretapping anymore because that’’s not true   anymore,’’” Acosta said. ’ ’   ”No, no, that’’s not true!” Spicer exclaimed. ’ ’   ”What’’s it going to be next?” Acosta asked. ’ ’   Spicer called that question ”cute,” but said the point about what   Trump meant by his tweets have been discussed in the briefing   room for days.  ’ ’   The press secretary later added that Acosta was coming to   ”serious conclusions” about Trump’’s assertions ”for a guy that   has zero intelligence.” ’ ’   Some in the room broke out in laughter. ’ ’   ”Give me some credit Sean, a little intelligence maybe,” Acosta   said. ’ ’   Spicer added with a smile that he meant to include ”clearance” in   his statement. ’ ’   ”You seem to know all the answers,” Spicer said. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tSean Spicer spars with CNN’s Jim  over President Trump’s wiretapping claim   ” ’     ’ ’White House press secretary Sean Spicer sparred. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’