’   One of the few numbers from the Congressional Budget Office   analysis of their healthcare plan that Republicans have   been eager to trumpet is this: Under their plan, individual   market   premiums will be 10% lower on   average than they would be under Obamacare by 2026. ’ ”   This is a finding from the CBO report on the American Health Care   Act, but it’s misleading. ” ”   The more relevant fact for consumers is this:   For a given customer, buying a plan that   provides a given level of benefits, premiums are expected   to be on average 13% higher under the AHCA than under   Obamacare, using the CBO’s assumptions about premiums overall. ” ”   That’s according to a  from Brookings Institution scholars Matt Fielder   and Loren Adler. ” ”   How can it be true that premiums would go down overall but   up for a given plan for a typical person? It’s   because the AHCA will change the health insurance market so   the average person buying a plan in the individual market is   younger, and is buying a stingier plan. ” ’   This chart from their report breaks it down: ’ ’  ’ ”   The AHCA would allow insurers to sell less generous plans,   paying for a smaller fraction of your actual healthcare expenses   than the plans on the market today. As a result, the average plan   sold under the AHCA would provide fewer benefits than if the law   weren’t enacted. ” ’   It would also relax the limit on ”age rating”  —   which is to say,   it would allow insurers to charge the oldest customers five times   more than the youngest customers, instead of the current three   times. ’ ’   And it would change the subsidies available for buying insurance.   As a result, some young customers would be able to get a     insurance policy for free or close to it,   while some older customers would face premiums of more than   half their income. ’ ”   As a result, the average insurance customer under the AHCA would   be younger than under the ACA. And they would be buying less   comprehensive insurance. Given that, it’s no surprise the average   premium would be lower: Insurers would be paying out a lot less   in claims per participant. ” ’   But when Fielder and Adler adjust the CBO estimates to get   an    comparison  —   stripping out the effects   of age and plan changes, and calculating the effect on premiums   if participant pools and plan generosity were unchanged from   under the ACA  —   they find the CBO model has premiums   rising substantially as a result of the AHCA. ’ ”   That 13% rise would be what matters to the average consumer:   how much they’ll have to pay for a plan that provides a given   set of benefits. It would be expected mostly because   the AHCA would repeal the individual mandate and make other   changes that give healthy people less of an incentive to buy   insurance, Adler said. ” ’   As a result, the average insurance buyer of any given   age would be sicker than under the ACA, and would tend to be   more expensive to cover, requiring higher premiums. ’ ”   That said, premiums for a given plan wouldn’t go up for   every customer. ” ’   Adler and Fielder estimate that premiums for plans that   cover 70% of healthcare costs (known as ”silver plans” under   Obamacare) would tend to fall a little bit under the AHCA   for customers under age 39, because of the relaxed restrictions   on age rating. ’ ’   But many older customers would pay a lot more, leading to the   overall average increase of 13%. ’ ’  ’ ’One of the few numbers from the Congressional. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’