’  ’ ’   When Donald Trump was running for president, he said companies   should ”buy American and hire American.” ’ ’   But in manufacturing these days, buying American often means   creating jobs for robots, not humans. ’ ”   The story of SoftWear, a   company in Atlanta,   should throw some cold water on Trump’s dreams of returning   thousands of Americans to manufacturing jobs. ” ’   SoftWear started with a group of Georgia Tech professors playing   around with robots and became a company because of an earlier   ”Buy American” push. ’ ’   Since 2002, a rule known as the Berry Amendment has prohibited   the Defense Department from procuring ”food, clothing, fabrics,   fibers, yarns, other   textiles, and hand or measuring   tools that are not grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the   United States.” ’ ’   The DOD quickly learned why nearly all clothes are made overseas   these days. ’ ”   Making clothes in the US is prohibitively expensive, because   workers expect to receive decent wages for their labor. So what   did the military do? It invested in automation. The Defense   Department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency  Georgia Tech with $1. 26 million to develop robotic   sewing machines. ” ”   That result was SoftWear. And even its sewing robots, it turns   out, don’t actually produce any clothes in the US. ” ”   SoftWear’s CEO, Palaniswamy Rajan, 46, moved to the US from   Bangalore, India, and never looked back. He’s unapologetic about   eliminating mechanical jobs like sewing, arguing that automation   lets workers focus on more interesting,   tasks  —     and often in better,   jobs. While the US producers   rank third after China and India in textile exports, the country   imports about 97% of its clothes, Rajan says. ” ’   Most young people nowadays would rather work in services than in   a factory, he says, so why try to recreate a world that is long   gone and wasn’’t all that great to begin with? ”It’’s an   idealization of the past, as if the past were always so rosy,” he   said. ’ ’   ”Do we really want phone operators plugging in your phone   connection, people having hard   jobs in factories,”   he said, that are physically straining and often unhealthy? ’ ’   The story of the   startup is emblematic of the   challenge facing one of Trump’’s central campaign promises: to   ”bring back” millions of manufacturing jobs to   regions   of the US. ’ ”   US manufacturing employment has been declining since a 1970 peak,   a drop that accelerated after China’s entry into the World Trade   Organization but, tellingly,  with Mexico and Canada in 1994. ” ’  ’ ’   Trump has argued widely in favor of ripping up trade agreements   and threatened to impose tariffs on key trading partners, arguing   that NAFTA was ”” and calling   the   Partnership, which his administration has   already jettisoned, a ”rape of our country.” He has also  a move that could unravel   the global trading system. ’ ”   But SoftWear’s business, along with so many others across the US,   should remind Trump of a factor he has yet to acknowledge: the   role of automation in reducing the number of manufacturing jobs   available. Rajan’s firm employs just 20 people, though he plans   to hire 15 more in the coming year. ” ’   That fits a nationwide pattern of manufacturing output hitting   record highs in recent years, even as manufacturing employment   continues its steady decline. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The fact that the U. S. manufacturing sector  in recent years makes   Trump’’s promises seem like false dreams,” Mark Muro, a senior   fellow and the director of policy at the Metropolitan Policy   Program at the Brookings Institution, wrote in MIT’’s Technology   Review. ”No one should be under the illusion that millions of   manufacturing jobs are coming back to America.” ’ ”   Indeed, despite Trump’s public rhetoric about pressuring the     maker Carrier to keep jobs in Indiana instead of   sending them to Mexico, the company’s CEO later acknowledged the   result would be, you guessed it, . ” ’   The rise of robots lends a sense of  according to a recent report from Morgan   Stanley. Corporate managers’’ interest in new digital technologies   has surged, the bank’’s analysts said. ”Several companies have   made digital appointments in recent months, and outlined their   respective strategies at capital markets events.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In contrast with Trump’’s focus on immigration as a threat to   jobs, President Barack Obama touched on  saying: ”The   next wave of economic dislocations won’’t come from overseas. It   will come from the relentless pace of automation that makes a lot   of good   jobs obsolete.” ’ ”   Just how big a drag automation has been on factory employment is   still open to debate. The US economy has lost some 5 million   manufacturing jobs since 2000, a decline of nearly 30% to 12. 3   million jobs. There has been a substantial recovery since the   depths of the Great Recession, but nothing on a scale that could   reverse the preceding decades’ losses. ” ’   But one study from Ball State University finds ” in manufacturing in recent years can be   attributable to productivity growth, and the   changes to   manufacturing employment are mostly linked to the productivity of   American factories.” In other words, robots, not outsourcing or   trade competition, are the culprit. ’ ’   Others are less sanguine. A 2014 study from MIT’’s Daron Acemoglu,   David Autor, and coauthors found ”net job losses of 2. 0 to 2. 4   million stemming from the rise in import competition from China   over the period 1999 to 2011.” ’ ’   Autor himself, however, is optimistic about the prospects for   automation to generate better,   jobs. He  that the rapid pace of recent technological growth had   not, for the most part, wiped out a significant portion of jobs   but instead changed the labor market in myriad ways, many   positive: ”Automation does indeed substitute for labor  —   as it is   typically intended to do. However, automation also complements   labor, raises output in ways that lead to higher demand for   labor, and interacts with adjustments in labor supply.” ’ ’   That may be especially the case in the services economy, which   accounts for some 80% of spending in the nearly $19 trillion US   economy. ’ ”   JPMorgan said on February 27 that it was launching software that   could accomplish in seconds    to do. This kind of surge in productivity is hard to fathom  —   and   lawyers aren’t even part of the manufacturing industry. Not yet   anyway. ” ’When Donald Trump was running for president, he. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’