’  ’ ’   In the spring of 2016, Dr. Jianxiong Xiao  —   affectionately   known among students and staff as ”Professor X”  —   said   goodbye to his plum professorship at Princeton and his post   as . ’ ’   By the fall of that same year, Xiao, known as something of a     had moved himself and his family from New Jersey to   Silicon Valley, and raised some modest seed funding for his new   startup focused on   cars. ’ ’   His startup, dubbed  has done its best to stay   under the radar to date  —   apart from a  to test     vehicles.  ’ ”   The filing officially put the professor’s mysterious startup in   the company of giants, such as Tesla, Waymo (formerly the   Google   car project) Uber, and numerous other big   auto companies testing   cars. ” ”   But Xiao isn’t worried about getting run over by the giants,   saying that his small team of academics possesses the kind of   expertise in computer vision that big corporations just   can’t match. Exhibit A: after only six months on the job,   Xiao says he’s already developed a prototype vehicle that   can do the same things as the cars made by his     rivals, at a fraction of the cost.  ” ”   AutoX gave a first peek at its creation on Friday, with a debut   video showing its prototype system in action. The car itself   isn’t anything special in terms of style (it’s basically just a   regular that’s been rigged   with AutoX technology) but it deftly navigates residential   streets near San Jose, seeming to handle driving situations such   as cloudy days and   historically a challenge for     cars, with ease.  ” ’ ’ ’   As noted in the video, AutoX’’s system doesn’’t rely on the LIDAR   laser arrays or other expensive sensors that most     cars, including Waymo’’s and Uber’’s, require to function. Instead,   AutoX uses advanced artificial intelligence to ”see” through   cameras mounted on the car and steer the car accordingly.  ’ ’   Better yet, Xiao tells Business Insider that the cameras that   power this AutoX prototype were purchased at Best Buy for $50 a   pop. ”It could not be cheaper than that,” he says.  ’ ”   From Xiao’s standpoint, that’s a crucial point: While future   iterations of AutoX technology will support ultrasonic sensors   and LIDAR and all that stuff for the sake of enhancing driver   safety, the startup is currently focused on building the cheapest   and most accessible system for   cars that it possibly   can. ” ’  ’ ’   To Xiao,   cars have the potential to benefit society,   from cutting down on traffic, to providing more autonomy for the   disabled, to making   trucking safer and more   efficient. The next step for AutoX is building out a fleet of   test cars, so it can test the technology with a variety of   different vehicles types. ’ ’   ”  [cars] shouldn’’t just be a luxury, but be available   to every citizen,” Xiao says.  ’ ’   A thoughtful speaker, Xiao   says he got the nickname Professor X because some of his peers at   Princeton found his actual name ”very complicated” (his      includes a link to hear a sound of how his name is   pronounced).  ’ ’   The term for Xiao’’s specific field of study is ”,” a branch of artificial intelligence that’’s just as   applicable to   cars as it is to Snapchat puppy filter   selfies.  ’ ”   For Xiao, it’s been a   area of interest. Over the years,   he’s won recognition from the likes of Google and Amazon for his   and his team’s advancements in the field of computer vision. In   2013, Xiao received his PhD from MIT, right before he went to   Princeton. ” ’   The impetus for going from academia to Silicon Valley was simple,   he says: He had long seen   cars as a huge potential   market for computer vision. After consulting with his network of   computer vision and autonomous driving experts in academia, he   decided the time was right to take a big leap and go into   business. ’ ’   It’’s that academic pedigree that gives AutoX an advantage,   Xiao says, as it ”enables us to to tap into the academic research   network.” With artificial intelligence experts in such high   demand in Silicon Valley, it helps with recruiting that Xiao and   his team already have personal relationships with many of the   best and brightest in the field. ’ ’   ”We’’ve known these people in person for many years,” Xiao   says.  ’ ’   Nowadays, Xiao says, AutoX is about 20 people strong, almost all   engineers, with   computer vision talent that had   previously worked at companies like Apple, Magic Leap, and   Microsoft. ’ ”   And with all that brainpower on board, Xiao says that they were   able to build their prototype from scratch in only six months,   without using anyone’s technology. With the       car IP lawsuit rocking Silicon Valley, that’s a huge   plus. ” ’   Xiao says the shift from academia to startup has required a   subtle change in how he approaches problems. In academia, you   tend to flit from one project to the next. At a private company   like AutoX, you ”actually make things work, actually get things   done” in service of one big idea. In this case,     cars. ’ ”   While Xiao stresses this system is still a prototype, he does say   it indicates the way he wants to see AutoX go, with a focus on   building real   technology that can handle every   situation, versus more limited   features like   Tesla’s autopilot, which can . ” ”   AutoX isn’t much interested in manufacturing cars and going      with Tesla, Xiao says. He’s equally uninterested in   following the  into helping people give their   existing cars limited   features. ” ”   Instead, Xiao says, he’s looking to partner up with auto   manufacturers for their future vehicles. AutoX provides the core   technology, almost like an operating system, that car companies   can then take, customize to their exact needs, and use as the   basis for their own autonomous systems.  ” ’  ’ ’   Additionally, Xiao says that AutoX is similarly looking to   license out its software to trucking companies, factory   operators, and the like. ’ ’   Xiao also wants to distinguish between AutoX and the technology   from companies like  which Intel bought for $15 billion this week  —     Mobileye helps   car systems gather the data, but   other software has to step in to interpret that data and help   guide the car accordingly. AutoX is the whole package, says Xiao. ’ ’   ”We’’re building the brains for   vehicles,” Xiao says. ’ ’In the spring of 2016, Dr. Jianxiong. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’