’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s son, Eric, vehemently dismissed   claims that his father had business ties to Russian government   officials in an interview Sunday. ” ’   In an interview with Fox Business host Maria Bartiromo, the   president’’s son dubbed stories outlining ties   between Russia and the Trump Organization ”ridiculous,”   saying the claims were ”a little bit maddening.” ’ ’   ”It actually infuriates me,” said Eric Trump, who stepped into   the role of executive vice president of the Trump Organization   earlier this year. ’ ’   ”We have no projects in Russia,” he added. ”If we had projects in   Russia, you’’d have our name on those projects. We’’re not exactly   bashful about hiding our name. We like having our name on our   buildings, including Trump Tower.” ’ ”   Eric Trump also blasted Democrats who have suggested   potential business ties between Trump companies and Russia.   Apparently referring to Russian hacks of the Democratic National   Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign chair John Podesta’s   email, Eric said party leaders should take greater   precautions with cybersecurity to avoid hacks.  ” ’’ ’   ”Their party lost an election and they needed to try and put   someone else down. And there’’s zero truth behind it,” he said.   ”I’’d like to see that party take an inward look at themselves.   Maybe the leaders of that party shouldn’’t be making the password   to their computers ’’password,’’ maybe start there. It’’s   maddening.” ’ ”   Eric Trump’s comments came as congressional and     inquiries continue into Russia’s   meddling in the 2016 election. ” ”   Trump’s business ties to Russia have faced heightened scrutiny    of top Trump campaign figures’ cozy   relationships with Russian officials, which some have been   reluctant to disclose. ” ”   Despite  the Trumps   indeed do not own any   properties in the country. The   majority of Trump’s known ties include   work with Russian financiers and developers on   various projects in the US, as well as some of his top   campaign aides’ . ” ”President Donald Trump’s son, Eric. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’