’  ’ ’     Last May, voters in Austin, Texas,  their city government’s hard     line on background checks for Uber and Lyft drivers. Both     companies exited the city immediately, putting     regular users of the   services in a fix —  and     leaving more than 10, 000 drivers high and dry.   ’ ’     What has happened since has been considered a       success story, as the absence of the Silicon Valley duopoly     made room for a  —  by August, 10 licensed   services     had registered drivers with the city. ”Austin is showing the     world that yes, there is life after Uber,” CNN     Money  on March 8.     ”And it’’s pretty good.”   ’ ’     And then came South by Southwest, which brings about 70, 000     people to downtown Austin each March. On Saturday evening,     outages hit the new taxi startups, and overwhelming demand     cascaded from one broken app to the next, leading to a       breakdown and conferencewide freakout.   ’ ’     And lo, the elites called out in one voice, and what they said     was: Where the hell is my Uber?   ’ ’     “Austin is broken without Uber or Lyft,” tweeted Ryan Hoover,     the founder of ProductHunt.   ’ ’ ’t’t’tNo purer example of the hedonic treadmill than watching rich dudes freak out about having to navigate a major American city without Uber.  ’ ’TechCrunch  up the view from     Silicon Valley. ”Austin definitely missed its chance to     prove that cities are ready to   without Uber     or Lyft,” a reporter wrote.   ’ ’     It was a convincing demonstration of how thoroughly Uber     and Lyft have pervaded the habits of   American     executives. According to Certify, a company that analyzes     business expenses, business travelers in the fourth quarter of     2016  more than half of all     ground transportation expenses, including rental cars, on Uber     alone. It has been only six years since Uber launched in San     Francisco, and already, its absence is like a phantom limb     making founders writhe in frustration. In this wholesale class     allegiance to a single transportation company, however, these     people are outliers. Only 15 percent of Americans     had ever used a   service as     of last year, according to .   ’ ’     The outrage is dumb: Cities don’t function so differently now,     by any metric, than they did before the   apps     debuted five years ago.   ’ ”     But it’s also pernicious. It also illustrates how a happy     reliance on Uber has blinded a whole group of influential     Americans to a real mobility crisis in the U. S. that is getting     worse, not better. For people without a car, the American city     hasn’t been fully functioning for more than 50 years. Recent     downtown improvements like streetcars and bike shares do little     to address the transportation challenge of job sprawl. Bus     ridership is plummeting nationwide; ridership on the     nation’s   heavy rail system has  by 14 percent.     For people who don’t drive, transportation networks are not     getting them where they need to go. And no,       services, no matter how much they subsidize     fares, .   ” ’     Planners like to debate the extent to which the rise of       and the decline of transit are related. I tend to     think transit’s wounds are mostly  . But       takes advantage of those shortcomings, pitching itself to     regulators, investors, and consumers as a necessary patch for     ailing transportation networks.   ’ ’     And the outburst from SXSW reminds me that so many loud voices     don’t just not participate in that     conversation about general mobility improvements in cities,     they’re not even conscious of its existence. They think a city     like Austin could reach ”full function” with a handful of     multinational taxi companies. They didn’t even think to     complain about how Austin’s transit system has cut service in     recent years, and ridership has fallen along with it —  down an     astounding  in 2016.     Looking for a bus isn’t an instinct they have anymore.   ’ ’     It may be naïve, but I’d like to think that the culture of     armchair transit experts agitating for better service has some     incremental political effect in New York, creating a grassroots     knowledge that filters up and out through reporters and     political staffers.   ’ ”     I doubt the panelists of South by Southwest would ever have     been lining up for Cap Metro bus service, even if the     alternative was to call a taxi service. But would     it kill them to complain about it? Among large U. S. cities,     only San Juan lost more transit riders than Austin last year.     That’s a problem that the   at SXSW could turn     their attention to.   ” ’Last May, voters in Austin, Texas. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’