’  ’ ’   The   roster of tech veterans that Facebook began   assembling one year ago is quietly making progress, steadily   expanding the size of its ranks and the hardware prototypes under   development. ’ ’   The group, known as Building 8, currently has four simultaneous   projects underway, spanning everything from cameras and augmented   reality to science   brain scanning technology,   Business Insider has learned. ’ ’   And Facebook is already thinking about the coming out party for   its impending family of gadgets, laying the groundwork   to drum up interest and sell the products when the time is   right. Building 8 has yet to unveil any of its products, but   people familiar with the matter said the hardware group is   expected to play a key role in Facebook’s developer conference   next month, where CEO Mark Zuckerberg gave his   vision for   the company last year. ’ ’   The move to hardware is an ambitious and risky adventure for   Facebook, which reigns as an internet superpower thanks   to its nearly 2 billion users. With virtually no experience   in the world of hardware, Facebook is taking on     competitors like Apple, Google and upstarts such as Snap, in   a   business defined by thin profit margins and   complex logistics.  ’ ”   And Facebook doesn’t appear to be treating Building 8 like a   hobby. ” ’   An analysis of Building 8’s recent hires and job listings by   Business Insider, as well as conversations with people close to   the company, shows an ambitious effort to create and sell   millions of consumer hardware units, from a supply chain outpost   in Hong Kong to a planned retail push and customer call center   operation. ’ ’   Facebook declined to comment for this story.  ’ ’  ’ ’   One of the current Building 8 projects involves cameras and   augmented reality, according to people familiar with the matter,   and recent hires point to the development of a drone.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Building 8 is structured similarly to Google’s Advanced   Technology and Projects Group, or ATAP, and is also similar   to X, the “moonshot” lab where Google’s   cars were   born.  ” ’   At Building 8, technical project leads are treated like     and given   deadlines to prove a concept that will either   be shipped and sold or spun out into a different part of   Facebook, which also owns Oculus VR, WhatsApp, and Instagram. ’ ’  ’ ’   The first such deadline is about a year away, coming up in the   summer of 2018.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’A top secret division within Facebook called. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’