’  ’ ’   Sen. Al Franken of Minnesota blasted Supreme Court nominee Neil   Gorsuch during his confirmation hearing Tuesday over a  calling the ruling ”absurd” and saying it made him   question Gorsuch’’s judgment. ’ ’   Gorsuch was the only judge on the 10th Circuit to issue a dissent   in the   ”frozen trucker” ruling  —   a case Gorsuch’’s    as evidence he prioritizes   corporations’’ interests over employee welfare. ’ ”   The case concerned a TransAm truck driver, Alphonse Maddin, who   claimed he was wrongfully fired after he disregarded a   supervisor’s instructions to stay with a broken down trailer,   despite freezing temperatures outside. ” ”   Maddin had waited hours in the unheated truck after calling for   roadside assistance, and said he grew numb and had slurred   speech. He then disobeyed his boss’s order and unhooked the truck   from the trailer and drove away. TransAm then fired Maddin. ” ’   Although the 10th Circuit sided with Maddin, Gorsuch argued that   it wasn’’t the court’’s job to determine whether TransAm’’s decision   was ”a wise or kind one.” ’ ’’ ’   ”Our only task is to decide whether the decision was an illegal   one,” Gorsuch wrote. ”There’’s simply no law anyone has pointed us   to giving employees the right to operate their vehicles in ways   their employers forbid.” ’ ”   During Tuesday’s confirmation hearing, Franken grilled Gorsuch on   what he would have done in Maddin’s place, describing the   situation as a choice between freezing to death versus driving   dangerously. ” ’   ”It is absurd to say this company is in its rights to fire him   because he made the choice of possibly dying from freezing to   death or causing other people to die, possibly by driving an   unsafe vehicle,” Franken said. ’ ’   ”That’’s absurd. Now, I had a career in identifying absurdity, and   I know it when I see it. And it makes me question your judgment.” ’ ’   Gorsuch replied that he empathized with Maddin, adding ”my heart   goes out to him.” ’ ”   Franken wasn’t the only senator to grill Gorsuch over the dissent    —   Dianne Feinstein of California and Dick Durbin of Illinois also   repeatedly questioned him on his ruling. ” ’   ”It was 14 degrees below. So cold, but not as cold as your   dissent, Judge Gorsuch,” Durbin said during the hearing, leading   to a tense exchange with Gorsuch. ’ ’   ”All I can tell you is my job is to apply the law you write,”   Gorsuch said. ’ ’Sen. Al Franken of Minnesota blasted Supreme. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’