’  ’ ’   Uber hasn’’t finished its investigation into its workplace culture   and sexual harassment allegations, but the executives at the     company already acknowledge that ” things   fundamentally need to change.” ’ ’   And on Tuesday, Uber detailed some of the big changes currently   underway, including:  ’ ’   ”Uber is disruptive —  and disruption demands the confidence to be   bold. What I have seen though, is that this has translated   internally to what I would call a cult of the individual,” said   Uber’’s chief human resources officer Liane Hornsey in a   conference call with reporters on Tuesday. ’ ’   ”We now need to expend genuine effort ensuring the individual is   never more important than the team —  not ever.” ’ ”   The investigation into Uber’s  workplace culture began after a former engineer   wrote a blog post detailing the sexual harassment she alleged   that she faced during her year at the company. Uber immediately   hired former attorney general Eric Holder to lead an independent   investigation into its workplace.  ” ’’ ’   On Tuesday, Uber said it expected the investigation to conclude   at the end of April and it plans to release the results of it   publicly.  ’ ’   In the interim though, Hornsey said Uber CEO Travis Kalanick gave   her full control to do what she needs to start reforming the   workplace culture. ’ ’   To start, Uber will release its first diversity report at the end   of March, benchmarking where the company stands when it comes to   hiring across departments, Hornsey said. ’ ’   The company is also evaluating its performance review system   that employees said focused too much on the past and not to where   the company is going on the future. ’ ’   ”We need to change it to be a continuous rather than a heavy   moment in time,” she said. ’ ”   Uber also updated more than 1, 500 job descriptions on its website   to make sure they didn’t have unconscious bias that could   unknowingly deter individuals from applying. The company is also   investing heavily in training, not only on diversity but also   training women in tech to be prepared to interview job   candidates. ” ”   While that’s just the start, the company said it’s fully prepared   to accept all the findings and recommendations from the external   investigation when it concludes in April. Already, the company   has had over 120 listening sessions to hear from its employees,   and it opened a confidential, anonymous line to the independent   investigation for staff to air complaints.  ” ’   ” ’ ”Uber hasn’t finished its investigation into its. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’