’  ’ ”   Thousands of   stores are shutting down in what’s fast   becoming one of the biggest waves of retail closures in decades. ” ’   More than 3, 500 stores are expected to close in the next couple   months. ’ ”   Department stores like JCPenney, Macy’s, Sears, and Kmart are   among the many companies shutting down stores, along with       chains like Crocs, BCBG, Abercrombie &   Fitch, and Guess. ” ’   Some retailers are exiting the    business   altogether and trying to shift to an   model. ’ ’   For example, Bebe is reportedly closing all 170 of its stores to   focus on growing online sales, according to a . The Limited  while still   selling merchandise online. ’ ’   Others, like Sears and JCPenney, are aggressively paring   down their store counts to unload unprofitable locations and try   to staunch losses. ’ ’  ’ ’   Sears is shutting down 10% of its  or 150 stores, and  or 138 stores. ’ ’   According to many analysts, the retail apocalypse has been a long   time coming in the US, where stores per capita far outweigh any   other country. ’ ’   The US has 23. 5 square feet of retail space per person, compared   with 16. 4 square feet in Canada and 11. 1 square feet in Australia    —   the next two countries with the highest retail space per   capita, according to a Morningstar report from October. ’ ’   Visits to shopping malls have been declining for years with   the rise of ecommerce, as well as titanic shifts in how shoppers   are spending their money.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   And people are now devoting bigger shares of their wallets   to restaurants, travel, and technology  —   like smartphones  —   than   ever before, while spending less on apparel and accessories. ’ ’   As stores continue to close, many shopping malls will be forced   to shut down as well. ’ ”   When an anchor store like Sears or Macy’s closes, it often   triggers a downward spiral in performance for shopping malls. ” ’   The malls don’’t only lose the income and shopper traffic from   that store’’s business. The closure often triggers ”    clauses” that allow the remaining mall tenants to exercise their   right to terminate their leases or renegotiate the terms,   typically with a period of lower rents, until another retailer   moves into the vacant anchor space. ’ ’  ’ ’   To reduce losses, malls must quickly find a replacement tenant   for the massive retail space that the anchor store occupied    which is nearly impossible  —   especially in malls that are already   financially strapped  —   when every major department store is   reducing its retail footprint. ’ ”   That can have grave consequences for shopping malls, especially   in markets where it’s harder to transform vacant mall space into     space like apartments, according to the analysts. ” ”   The nation’s   malls  —   those classified in the   industry as   and    —   will be hit the hardest by the store   closures.  ” ’   ’ ’  ’ ’Thousands of   stores are shutting. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’