’  ’ ’   The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released   its revised estimate for the Republican healthcare bill on   Thursday, and it could put House GOP leaders on even . ’ ’ on the amendments added on Monday to   the American Health Care Act show that 24 million more Americans   could be uninsured by  2026 compared to the current   healthcare system. ’ ”   The most significant change in the CBO’s score was that the   reduction of the federal deficit the CBO projected would be less   with the amendments than under the previous version of the AHCA. ” ’ the updated AHCA would reduce   the deficit by $151 billion between 2017 and 2026,  in the original CBO   report. ’ ’   This would be primarily due to a decrease in the revenue   generated from taxes, but spending would stay roughly the same as   they projected in the first score, the CBO said. ’ ’’ ’   ”Reducing the threshold for determining the medical care   deduction on individuals’ income tax returns from 7. 5 percent of   income to 5. 8 percent would reduce revenues by about $90   billion,”  ”Other changes include adjusting the effective   dates and making other modifications to the provisions that   repeal or delay many of the changes in the Affordable Care Act,   which would reduce revenues by $48 billion.” ’ ”   The  moved up the date of   repeal for many of Obamacare’s taxes to 2017 from 2018 in   the original bill. ” ’   Additionally, the CBO said that adjustments to the formula   that calculated Medicaid funding would result in a reduction of   revenues totaling $41 billion over the same timeframe. ’ ’   The report said that projections for the stability of the   individual health insurance market and premiums for people on the   individual exchanges  ’ ’   This score, however, does not encompass any changes made to the   bill since Monday. The White House and GOP leaders  of the conservative House   Freedom Caucus and may have promised edits on the legislation   that have not been formally and publicly introduced. ’ ’   GOP leadership  because the   bill did not have enough support from   Republicans to pass. There has been no official word on when   a vote will take place. ’ ’The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’