’  ’ ’   The NCAA issued a grim warning to North Carolina on Thursday:   Repeal your ”bathroom law,” or forget about hosting major   sporting events any time soon. ’ ”   The college sports organization confirmed that it will remove   from consideration all bids to host championship events in North   Carolina if the law isn’t repealed by   when event sites   are selected. ” ’   The controversial law already cost the Tar Heel State more than a   dozen events for the current academic year, after the NCAA and   Atlantic Coast Conference relocated championships last summer.   Now,  are on the chopping block between 2018 and 2022. ’ ’   ”Last year, the NCAA Board of Governors relocated NCAA   championships scheduled in North Carolina because of the   cumulative impact HB2 had on local communities’’ ability to assure   a safe, healthy, discrimination free atmosphere for all those   watching and participating in our events,” the NCAA said . ’ ’   ”Absent any change in the law, our position remains the same   regarding hosting current or future events in the state.” ’ ’   The bathroom law, known as HB2, blocks protections for LGBT   residents and forces transgender people to use the bathroom that   aligns with the sex listed on their birth certificate. Since   exactly one year ago on Thursday, the     legislation has drawn the ire of Democrats, LGBT advocates, and   local business groups. ’ ”   The NCAA’s ultimatum will ramp up the pressure on North   Carolina’s General Assembly to repeal the law, but so far that   has proven easier said than done. Repeal efforts have stalled in   recent months, with Democrats and Republicans disagreeing on how   far to scale it back. ” ’   After a  dedicated to killing the   law devolved into partisan bickering in December, neither side   seems willing to make concessions, and Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper   has been unable to strike a viable deal. Now, some fear there is   no repeal in sight. ’ ’   ”We’’re moving in the opposite direction again,” House Democratic   Leader Darren Jackson . ’ ”   Meanwhile, residents are constantly reminded of the law’s   consequences. ” ”   Last week, the Duke University men’s basketball team was   eliminated from the NCAA tournament in an upset loss to the   University of South Carolina, in a game the NCAA relocated   because of HB2. The teams played in Greenville, South Carolina,   just 90 minutes from the USC campus. Its originally scheduled   site, Greensboro, North Carolina, would have been  for the Blue Devils. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tNCAA reaffirms North Carolina championship stance.  ’ ’The NCAA issued a grim warning to North. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’