’  ’ ”   GOP leadership pulled its bill to overhaul the US healthcare   system from what looked almost certain to be a failed floor vote   in the House on Friday, in a blow to President Donald Trump’s   agenda and House Speaker Paul Ryan’s leadership of his caucus. ” ’   It was pulled after it became clear that Republicans  their bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, the law   formally known as the Affordable Care Act. ’ ’   In a   effort on Friday, Republican leaders attempted   to wrangle the needed votes to pass the bill after delaying the   vote on Thursday. ’ ’   But around 3 p. m. Ryan told Trump that he did not have the   votes. The president asked him to pull the bill from the floor, a   House GOP leadership aide told Business Insider. The vote had   been expected at 3:30 p. m. ’ ’   Trump  ”I don’’t blame Paul.”   Trump had said earlier in the day that Ryan should keep his job   if the bill were to fail. Trump also told Costa that the bill   would not be readdressed anytime soon. ’ ’’ ”   The New York Times’ Maggie Haberman also reported that Trump told   her healthcare was now the Democrats’ problem and that he thought   they would be ready to negotiate when Obamacare failed. ” ’   In a press conference after the bill was pulled, Ryan said   Republicans ”came up short” and called it a ”disappointing day.” ’ ’   Democrats cheered the failure of the bill, saying it was good   news for people who were projected to lose their insurance if the   bill were to become law. ’ ’   ”Today is a great day for our country,” said House Minority   Leader Nancy Pelosi. ”What happened on the floor is a victory for   the American people.” ’ ’   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer ascribed the failure to the   president. ’ ’   ”So much for the Art of the Deal,” he said in a statement,   referring to Trump’’s famous business book. ’ ’   ”Ultimately, the Trumpcare bill failed because of two traits that   have plagued the Trump presidency since he took office:   incompetence and broken promises,” Schumer said. ”In my life, I   have never seen an administration as incompetent as the one   occupying the White House today.” ’ ”   House GOP leadership had faced opposition from both hardline   conservatives and moderates, making the bill’s passage untenable. ” ’   Republican leaders appeared to concede on Thursday that they did   not have the votes necessary to pass the bill. But Trump pushed   for a vote,  to House Republicans on Thursday   night. Trump, via a message delivered by Office of Management and   Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, said he would move onto other   priorities if the caucus failed to pass the bill. The gambit did   not appear to persuade many to change their votes. ’ ”   Conservatives in the  that the AHCA did not go far   enough in its repeal of Obamacare because it kept some of the   law’s more popular elements. Moderates, on the other hand, had   said the AHCA did not fix the problems of Obamacare and that   repealing the law’s   essential health benefits  —   a   demand of the Freedom Caucus  —   . ” ’   Republican leaders were ultimately unable to bridge the gap   between the two sides. ’ ”   The failure of the bill is a blow to both Ryan and Trump, setting   back their ambitious political agenda despite the GOP’s control   of the presidency and both houses of Congress. ” ’   For Ryan, it represented a failure of the GOP to use its largest   majority in the House since the 1920s to its advantage. Ryan    that ”when this thing comes to the   floor, we’’ll have 218” votes. ’ ’   For Trump, it served as the first major legislative setback in   his young presidency. Trump had promised during his campaign to   repeal and replace Obamacare on ”Day One,” and he said shortly   before his inauguration that . ’ ”   Ryan and Trump will likely regroup to work on the rest of their   agenda, including tax reform and Trump’s budget. ” ’GOP leadership pulled its bill to overhaul the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’