’  ’ ’   Paul Ryan strode to the lectern, looking solemn. It was hard to   imagine in November, after Donald Trump shocked the world to win   the presidency and Republicans gained control of the   legislature and the White House. ’ ’   ”Obamacare is the law of the land. It will remain the law of the   land until it is replaced,” . ”We will be living with Obamacare   for the foreseeable future.” ’ ’   Just 64 days into his presidency, the first major legislative   item on the Republican agenda was dead. ’ ”   Ryan called Trump around 3 p. m. Friday to say what Republican   leaders knew all week  —   they didn’t have the votes to pass the   American Health Care Act. Trump told him to pull the bill. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump, who initially left the sales pitch to GOP leaders, ended   up mounting a furious push in the last few days, meeting with   members of the Freedom Caucus a handful of times in the days   leading up to the planned vote. ’ ’   But even at large rallies in Tennessee and Kentucky, where   Trump was supposed to drum up support for the healthcare bill, he   instead focused on other issues for the bulk of his speech. In   fact, in Kentucky, Trump said that the bill has to pass ”in some   form” so that Republicans could ”move on” to other issues like   tax reform. ’ ’   Conservative media latched on to the seeming lack of support from   Trump, as well, with conservative outlets like Breitbart opting   to call the bill ”Ryancare” and pin its shortcomings on the   House speaker rather than the president. ’ ’   Ultimately, Trump decided Thursday night to : Pass this bill, or Obamacare stays. It ended up   staying, for now. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The differences between dealmaking in New York City and   dealmaking in Washington, DC, have never been more apparent;   Trump is like a fish out of water,” said Greg Valliere, the chief   global strategist at Horizon Investments. ”He will have to change   the subject, quickly, but soon he will face bruising budget   battles.” ’ ’Paul Ryan strode to the lectern, looking solemn. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’