’  ’ ’   A   Uber car was involved in an accident on Friday   night in Tempe, Arizona, in one of the most serious incidents to   date involving the growing fleet of autonomous vehicles being   tested on US roads and prompting Uber to suspend autonomous   car testing in the state. ’ ”   A photo posted on Fresco News’  feed showed a   Uber Volvo   SUV on its side. ” ’   Another car, in the background, is pictured with dents and   smashed windows. Nobody was seriously injured in the incident. ’ ’   The Uber SUV was operating in autonomous mode when the accident   occurred, Uber confirmed to Business Insider. Uber has halted its      pilot in Arizona and is investigating what   caused the incident. ’ ’   ”We are continuing to look into this incident and can confirm we   had no backseat passengers in the vehicle,” an Uber   representative said in an email to Business Insider. ’ ’   A Tempe police spokesperson  that the Uber was not at fault in the   accident and was hit by another car which failed to yield.  ’ ’   Still, the collision will likely to turn up the temperature on   the heated debate about the safety of   cars. ’ ”   A Tesla operating in Autopilot mode crashed into a truck last   year, killing the car’s driver. ” ”   Google’s prototype   cars have been involved in   several   over the years, though most were operating   in manual mode at the time of the incidents. ” ’   Automakers and tech companies are rushing to develop and test     cars, which some people think could eventually   replace traditional cars. But there are many questions about the   safety and reliability of the technology that regulators are   still grappling with. ’ ’  ’ ’   Uber launched its  in December   after a dispute with California regulators over the program. ’ ”   Uber attempted to launch the program (which was similar to the   one ) in   in California.   But Uber neglected to obtain an   license before   the launch, and that led the California DMV to  of the company’s 16   autonomous vehicles. ” ’   Uber then shipped all 16 of its   Volvo XC90s to   Arizona on the back of its   Otto truck. ’ ”   Uber’s   program ran in California for just a   week, but the company’s   Volvo was caught on video   running through a red light on a busy intersection in front of   the city’s Museum of Modern Art. ” ’   An Uber representative said at the time that the incident was the   result of human error, but internal sources told  the Uber was driving   itself when the incident happened. ’ ’  ’ ’   Uber is actually involved in a lawsuit over its     technology. ’ ”   Waymo, Alphabet’s    company, is  alleging that the     service stole the designs for its lidar system. Lidar sensors   shoot lasers and allow   vehicles to detect obstacles.    asking a federal   judge to freeze Uber’s use of its   tech. ” ’   Uber has been under intense scrutiny after a string of scandals. ’ ’   The company has been accused of promoting a sexist workplace   after former engineer  detailing   allegations of harassment and gender bias she said she   experienced at the company. ’ ’ posted a bombshell report   detailing a company retreat where a manager groped several female   employees and was later fired. ’ ’   Uber used a  to evade   government official and regulators at a time when city regulators   were trying to block the   service. ’ ’A   Uber car was involved in an. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’