’  ’ ’   The  is now officially in effect. ’ ’   The ban, which was announced on Tuesday, forbids passengers from   bringing any electronic devices larger than a cell phone into the   cabin of certain flights to the US. ’ ”   Airlines were sent scrambling for answers to the operational   nightmare created by the ban, after getting just 96 hours to   comply or risk losing their license to fly into the   US.   There are still a lot of unanswered questions about the ban’s   motives, its effectiveness at deterring a terrorist attack, the   huge loopholes left open by the Trump administration, and how   airlines are expected to comply with the ban and a Federal   Aviation Administration prohibition against checking     battery devices. ” ”   Here’s what we know so far. ” ’   The ban requires passengers to place all electronic items larger   than a cell phone in their checked luggage so the devices cannot   be accessed in flight. This includes laptops, tablets,     portable DVD players, gaming devices larger than a smartphone,   and   printers and scanners. However, necessary medical   devices are exempt. ’ ’   The new policy covers only   flights to the US coming from   one of 10 airports in the Middle East and North Africa  —     including a few of the busiest transit hubs in the world:   Istanbul, Turkey and Dubai in the UAE. ’ ’   Flights from the US to these destinations will not be affected. ’ ’  ’ ’   As a result, a total of nine airlines, including industry   heavyweights such as Emirates, Etihad, Qatar Airways, and Turkish   Airlines, will have to deal with the consequences of the ban. ’ ”   But not all flights from these airlines into the US will be   affected by the ban.   For instance, Emirates offers flights to New York’s JFK   International Airport and Newark Liberty International Airport in   New Jersey from Dubai that stop in Milan, Italy and Athens,   Greece. On Thursday, Emirates confirmed that passengers on these   flights will be permitted to have their laptops and other   electronic devices with them in the cabin. ” ’   In addition, no flights operated by US or European airlines will   be affected directly by the ban because none offer     service to the US from that region of the world. However, several   US carriers including American, United, JetBlue, and Alaska could   see their business take a hit. This is because airlines such as   Qatar, Turkish, and Emirates feed passengers directly into their   respective domestic networks. ’ ”   The ban calls for all large electronic devices to be packed with   checked luggage at each passenger’s point of origin. This means   that those transiting through the affected airports will be   without their devices from the onset of their trip. For instance,   if you are traveling from Mumbai, India to Atlanta, GA via Doha,   Qatar, your laptop will have to be checked in Mumbai even though   it’s not one of the airports on the banned list. ” ’  ’ ”   However, those flying with  that will allow passengers to have access to   their laptops until it’s time to board their flights. For   passengers, Emirates’ complimentary laptop handling service will   allow them to have access to their devices during the first leg   of their journey along with their layover in Dubai. ” ”   Passengers who use the service will be required to declare their   large electronic devices to security agents before boarding     flights. The devices would then be packed in secure   boxes and stored in the aircraft’s cargo hold. The boxes would be   returned to the travelers once they reached the US. ” ’   Other airlines such as Qatar Airways have indicated they will   implement extra security measures to ensure the security of the   devices. Although none have yet to clarify what those measure   are. ’ ”   According to US officials, there’s no set date for the end of the   ban and its need will be periodically reviewed. ” ’   According to senior administration officials, the decision to   implement these security measures is a result of intelligence   showing a risk for terrorist activity involving commercial   aviation. ’ ’   ”Evaluated intelligence indicates that terrorist groups continue   to target commercial aviation and are aggressively pursuing   innovative methods to undertake their attacks, to include   smuggling explosive devices in various consumer items,” an   official said on Monday. ’ ’  ’ ’   Whatever this intelligence consists of, it was substantial enough   for the   apparatus to act.   But confusing matters was that the UK issued a similar ban   Tuesday but excluded four airports  —   Dubai and Abu Dhabi in the   United Arab Emirates, Doha, Qatar, and Casablanca, Morocco  —     featured in the US ban. ’ ’   In addition, several aviation industry analysts who have spoken   with Business Insider question whether a ban of this type would   even be effective in countering a terrorist attack. Doha, Dubai,   and Abu Dhabi are major international transit hubs with extensive   multilayered security procedures.   flights are also   screened in dedicated facilities using   security   professionals who often have experience in law enforcement or the   military. ’ ’   In fact, Abu Dhabi International Airport is equipped with a US   Customs and Border Protection   facility where   passengers and bags headed for the US are screened by US customs   officials. ’ ’  ’ ”   Also, areas of world known to be hotbeds for terrorist activity   have been left off the list banned countries. For example,   Pakistan International Airlines’ flight from Lahore to JFK   International by way of Manchester, England is not covered by the   ban. Which means, it’s possible for terrorists to simply bypass   the banned airports and reach the US through any number of   European transit hubs.” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDid you know? You can carry your   onboard US bound  flights.  ’ ’     ’ ’   The electronics ban will have a few unintended side effects. One   of the most serious is the large number of     batteries in the cargo hold of an airliner. ’ ”   According to the Federal Aviation Administration, it’s behavior   with potentially catastrophic consequences. ” ’   ”FAA battery fire testing has highlighted the potential risk of a   catastrophic aircraft loss due to damage resulting from a lithium   battery fire or explosion,” the agency wrote in an alert in   February. ”Current cargo fire suppression systems cannot   effectively control a lithium battery fire.” ’ ’   Administration officials told journalists on Monday that they   were working with the FAA to maintain a safe flying environment,   but they did not state specifics. Business Insider asked DHS for   specifics on Tuesday but has not yet heard back from officials. ’ ’   This is particularly concerning for Michael Mo, the cofounder and   CEO of KULR Technologies, a company that specializes in     systems for batteries. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”  batteries are inherently volatile. It’’s statistics.   It’’s not a matter of if, but a matter of when one of these things   blow,” Mo told Business Insider in an interview. ”So when that   happens, it’’s better to have humans nearby to react and put out   the fire.” ’ ”   According to Mo, the only saving grace here is that spare   batteries and power banks are still prohibited. Which means only   batteries fitted inside devices will be stored with cargo. Even   though it’s not perfectly safe, these batteries tend to be more   stable and less likely to combust. ” ’   With the laptop ban still in its infancy, more details will   likely emerge in the near future. Stay tuned. ’ ” If you’re currently a business traveler affected by the US   laptop ban, you can share your story with   transportation@businessinsider. com. ” ”The Department of Homeland Security’s ban on. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’