’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump will head into the final third of his   first 100 days in office attempting to recover from perhaps the   most tumultuous week of his   presidency, one that   has forced him to grapple with the limitations of a system he   vowed to overhaul. ’ ”   The week began with FBI Director James Comey  that the bureau was investigating   potential collusion between Trumpworld and the Russian government   to swing the election in the billionaire’s favor. ” ’   It ended with the American Health Care Act, the Republican bill   to replace the Affordable Care Act, being pulled from the House   floor after it became clear it would not have enough votes to   pass. It virtually guaranteed that Trump will not have a   single major legislative achievement in his crucial first   100 days in office. ’ ’   ”You got played,”    following the healthcare failure. ’ ’   It took President George W. Bush ”years to smash everything,” she   added. ”You’’re way ahead of schedule.” ’ ”   The week kicked off with Monday’s much anticipated hearing before   the House Intelligence Committee on Russian meddling in the 2016   election. It featured Comey and NSA Director Mike Rogers. ” ’   Hours ahead of the testimony, Trump sought to preemptively   delegitimize the   cloud hanging over his   administration that was almost certain to be advanced with the   testimony of the two directors. ’ ’   ”James Clapper and others stated that there is no evidence Potus   colluded with Russia,” Trump tweeted. ”This story is FAKE NEWS   and everyone knows it!” ’ ’ furthered in the   hearing. ’ ’  ’ ”   From the   Comey dropped a pair of bombshells.   First, he revealed that, since late July, the FBI’s been   investigating potential connections between the Trump campaign   and the Russian government officials who worked to manipulate the   election. ” ’ who prefaced his   announcement by reminding the panel that it’’s bureau   practice not to ”confirm the existence of ongoing   investigations,” particularly those that involve classified   information, said this was an ”unusual circumstance” in which it   was in the public interest to do so. ’ ’   ”I’’ve been authorized by the Department of Justice to confirm   that the FBI, as part of our counterintelligence mission, is   investigating the Russian government’’s efforts to interfere in   the 2016 elections, and that includes investigating the nature of   any links between individuals associated with the Trump campaign   and the Russian government,” Comey said, ”and whether there was   any coordination between the campaign and Russia’’s efforts. As   with any counterintelligence investigation, this will also   include an assessment of whether any crimes were committed.” ’ ’   Comey also asserted that the entirety of the DOJ was unable   to find any evidence to back up  illegally wiretapped him ahead of the November   election. ’ ’   House Intelligence Committee Chair Devin Nunes’’ decision to brief   the president on intelligence he claimed showed that information   on members of Trump’’s transition team was ”incidentally   collected” by the intelligence community during the transition   period on ”numerous occasions.” The intelligence showed, in his   mind, that Trump was ”monitored.” ’ ”   He said the collection was not related to the FBI’s investigation   into Russian meddling in last year’s presidential election  —     which, he said, made it fair to share with the president.   Nunes, a member of Trump’s transition team, also said he believed   the information was obtained legally through under the Foreign   Intelligence Surveillance Act. ” ’   It sparked a riff on the committee just two days after Comey   delivered his bombshell testimony to the body. The ranking   Democrat on the committee, Adam Schiff, slammed the decision to   brief Trump on the information, which had not been presented to   the rest of the committee. Schiff so far as saying the   investigation was now compromised. ’ ’   Asked by reporters at the White House after he was briefed by   Nunes, Trump said he felt ”somewhat” vindicated by the news,   which came after his wiretapping claim  —   a charge many on   the right and left later asserted was not true, including   Nunes. Trump has backed away from the claim to an extent,   saying his wiretapping reference meant more broad   surveillance. ’ ’  ’ ’ the National   Security Agency, and the Department of Defense told Business   Insider Thursday that the revelation was ”far from a   vindication.” ’ ’   ”In some ways it’’s almost the reverse,” said Robert Deitz, who   held those posts in the administrations of President Bill Clinton   and of President George W. Bush. ”That is, if, and let’’s assume   for a moment that someone getting [intelligence] collection from   overseas [and] is getting a Trump person on the other line. It   can be totally innocent. On the other hand, it could completely   validate the notion that Trump people are talking to Russians.” ’ ’   ”So I don’’t get the partial vindication argument at all,” he   continued. ”To me, it raises more questions than it resolves. . ..   And so why it’’s somehow ’’good news’’ for Mr. Trump that some of   his people have been captured in collection  —   I don’’t see how   that is ever good news.”  ’ ” bit of bad news for   Trump: His approval rating hit a new low. According to  the president’s   performance rating dipped to 37%. It had dropped among   Republicans, men, and white voters, three key elements of the   coalition that led him to victory last November. ” ’   that Trump’’s nominee to fill the vacant Supreme Court seat, 10th   US Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Neil Gorsuch, will face a   Democratic filibuster. It will create a showdown wherein   Republicans will look to one of two options: peel off eight   Senate Democrats or independents, or invoke the ”nuclear” option,   rewriting the Senate rules to end the   threshold for   Supreme Court picks. ’ ’   It seemed to have about as much to do with Trump, if not more,   than it was to do with Gorsuch, who was grilled by senators on   Capitol Hill this week as a part of a more than     questioning during his Senate confirmation hearing. ’ ’   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer  ”unseemly to be moving   forward so fast on confirming a Supreme Court justice with a   lifetime appointment” due to the FBI investigation that Comey had   revealed Monday. ’ ’   ”You can bet that if the shoe was on the other foot  —   and a   Democratic president was under investigation by the FBI  —   that   Republicans would be howling at the moon about filling a Supreme   Court seat in such circumstances,” Schumer said. ”After all, they   stopped a president who wasn’t under investigation from filling a   seat with nearly a year left in his presidency.” ’ ’  ’ ”   But the week’s biggest debacle came on healthcare. Congressional   Republicans had promised for the better part of seven years that   they would repeal and replace Obamacare. Now with majorities in   both branches of Congress, as well as a president to sign the   bill, they could not pass their alternative. ” ’   The reason: infighting among the same various factions of the   party that has long prevented a united front for the GOP. ’ ’   On Thursday, with it becoming clear that the American Health   Care Act did not yet have enough votes to pass, the House vote   was postponed. Given a second attempt on Friday, the votes still   were not there. After an ultimatum the night before, Trump told   House Speaker Paul Ryan on Friday to pull the bill. ’ ’   In the grand total of just 18 days from when   Republicans first introduced the legislation, it had gone   down in flames after facing a groundswell of grassroots   opposition and staggeringly low popularity. And both Trump and   congressional leaders were on the hook for failing to deliver on   one of their biggest promises. ’ ’   Trump, in a crucial meeting with conservative House leaders   earlier in the week, had implored the Republican holdouts to   ”forget about the little    ” in the bill, . ’ ’   ”Let’’s focus on the big picture here,” he said. ’ ”   But the members of the House Freedom Caucus did not, focusing in   on the policy details over the political ramifications of   potentially derailing the Trump agenda with the bill’s defeat. ” ’  ’ ’   As news of the bill’’s withdrawal echoed around Washington,   Democrats were quick to pile on. Schumer,    said, ”So much for the ’’Art of the Deal,’’” a jab at the   president’’s   book. ’ ’ the Oval Office   late Friday afternoon, Trump blamed Democrats for the failure,   and said ”the best thing we can do is let Obamacare explode.” ’ ”   But in doing so, he seemed to signal that he doesn’t believe he   will be able to implement his agenda without cooperation from the   Democrats, who hold the minority in both the House and Senate. ” ’   ”We had no Democrat support,” Trump said, later adding,   ”W ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’President Donald Trump will head into the final. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’