’  ’ ’   First daughter Ivanka Trump is set to assume a ”voluntary”   position in the White House described as her father’’s ”eyes and   ears,” but experts say it could put the Trump administration in   questionable ethical territory. ’ ’   She will get an office in the West Wing, security clearance, and   government communications devices, all while maintaining   ownership of her eponymous fashion and jewelry brand. ’ ”   The latest move by Trump’s White House has some legal ethics   experts wondering whether the administration has breached   boundaries that govern conduct in the country’s highest office. ” ”   Ivanka Trump has long been a trusted adviser to her father, from   her capacity as executive vice president of     development and acquisition in the Trump Organization, to her   past involvement in Trump’s administration. ” ’   Before her arrival in the West Wing, Ivanka participated in a   number of events with the president, including meetings with   German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Canadian Prime Minister Justin   Trudeau, and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe; trips with the   president and his cabinet members; bill signings in the Oval   Office; and meetings in the West Wing. ’ ”   Trump’s decision to further involve Ivanka in his inner circle,    is already raising red flags for scholars   who have voiced concern over the first daughter’s growing   influence in her father’s administration. ” ’  ’ ’   The first and most frequently raised question is whether the   Trump White House is flouting antinepotism laws by giving his   daughter an office in the West Wing. The  prohibits public officials  —   including   the president  —   from appointing relatives to positions in   agencies over which they preside. ’ ’   Based on the text of the law, one might think it would be illegal   for the president to give his daughter  —   and his    Jared   Kushner  —   a position in the White House. ’ ’   However, whether this administration has crossed a line is still   a gray area that goes back to a    judicial ruling   involving Hillary Clinton when she was first lady. At the time,   President Bill Clinton appointed Hillary to head up a healthcare   task force. After a    brought by the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons   against Hillary Clinton, two federal judges ruled that the   federal antinepotism statute did not apply to the White House in   the same way it did to other federal or executive agencies. ’ ’   In other words, ”it appears based on [the ruling] that certain   positions in the White House may not be considered   [ ] positions” because the White House hasn’’t   always been classified as an agency, ”which is what the law was   limited to,” said Scott Amey, a lawyer at the Project on   Government Oversight. ’ ’   ”We doubt that Congress intended to include the White House or   the Executive Office of the President” within the constraints of   the antinepotism law, Judge Laurence Silberman wrote in the 1993   ruling involving Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   He added: ”So, for example, a President would be barred from   appointing his brother as Attorney General, but perhaps not as a   White House special assistant . .. The   statute,   moreover, may well bar appointment only to paid positions in   government.” ’ ”   Though it’s been disputed by legal scholars, the 1993 decision   could have paved the way for Trump to appoint his      Jared Kushner to a White House position, and it may apply in   Ivanka’s situation as well, particularly because she will not be   a paid government employee, and the judges’ interpretation of the   law stipulates that it may apply only to paid positions. ” ”   The Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel, which serves   as an interpreter of federal law as it applies to the president,   decided in 1972 that the antinepotism statute covered the White   House in the same way as it did federal agencies, thereby   preventing former President Richard Nixon from appointing a   relative to his White House staff. ” ’   However, the day after Trump was sworn in, the OLC changed its   decision to exclude White House staff from the statute, saying in   a  that the president ”enjoys an unusual degree of   freedom” when selecting his staff, ”which Congress found suitable   to the demands of his office.” It pointed to a separate  by the DC Circuit Court of Appeals, which said   the antinepotism law’’s definition of an executive agency did not   include the executive residence of the White House. ’ ’   ”It doesn’’t make much sense to exclude the White House from an   antinepotism statute, but that’’s the law’’s interpretation as it   stands,” said Jon Michaels, an expert on the government,   constitutional law, and   law at the UCLA School   of Law. ”Why exempt White House staff from the law when they’’re   part of the federal government?” ’ ’   He added that things are further complicated by the fact that   Ivanka, unlike Kushner, is serving in a voluntary capacity and   will not hold an official title, nor receive a salary. ’ ’   But calling it ”voluntary” could raise other ethical and legal   questions about Ivanka’’s role. The  is a 1982 law that prohibits federal employees from,   among other things, accepting voluntary services rendered to the   US, except in cases involving the safety of human life or the   protection of property. ’ ’  ’ ”   Given that she will hold no official position nor receive any   compensation from the government, Ivanka’s role may be classified   as a voluntary service, Michaels said, and could be in violation   of the Antideficiency Act, depending on how the law is   interpreted. ” ’   ”It’’s an open question on whether you can volunteer in the White   House,” Amey said. ”Other agencies can’’t have volunteers, but   again, it can get down to the definition of agency and some other   terms.” ’ ’   Perhaps anticipating the questions that would be raised when she   began working in the White House, Ivanka highlighted that she   would ”voluntarily comply” with ethics rules that would apply if   she were a government employee. ’ ’   Being a volunteer, however, may allow Ivanka to be exempt from   the same ethical standards as White House staff. Paid employees   are bound by a number of provisions involving ethics and   transparency, as well as laws prohibiting conflicts of interest. ’ ’   ”By not becoming a government employee, it makes it easier to   avoid nepotism laws and exist outside the scope of ethics laws.   She can comply voluntarily, and she can theoretically decide not   to if it suits her,” Michaels said. ’ ’   The Department of Justice and the Office of Government Ethics   should weigh in on whether or not Ivanka should serve in the West   Wing and how best to manage any conflicts of interest regarding   the law, Amey added. ’ ’   The Associated Press  that government watchdogs are already concerned   about the ”middle space” created by a voluntary position in the   White House. To voice their concerns, they sent a letter to White   House counsel Don McGahn, signed by two former White House   lawyers and three transparency advocates, urging him to   reconsider the appropriateness of Ivanka working in the White   House. A spokeswoman  her role was approved by the White House counsel’’s   office and that ethical conflict issues were ”worked through”   with the OGE. ’ ’   ”We addressed the appropriate way to approach the ethics issues   deriving from Ivanka Trump’s assets,” Ivanka’’s laywer, Jamie   Gorelick, told Business Insider. ’ ’   A spokesperson for the OGE told Business Insider that ”the OGE   was essentially notified of the general contours of her plan.”   Notification, however, is not the same as formulating and   approving a plan to avoid ethical issues. ’ ’  ’ ”   The first daughter’s appointment to an informal position in her   father’s administration could be extending the executive branch’s   power beyond what Congress intended and threaten the      doctrine. ” ’   Congress maintains power of the purse, meaning that it provides   funding for White House staff and appointments. ’ ’   ”If those funds are insufficient for what the president wants . ..   if he wants more power or more personnel, he has to ask   Congress,” Michaels said. ’ ’   He added: ”If you’’re soliciting or accepting voluntary services,   you’’re empowering the executive branch beyond what the   legislative branch intended.” ’ ”   Of all the questions raised by Ivanka’s appointment in the Trump   administration, the most important one is, what exactly will   Ivanka’s responsibilities be? ” ’   We don’’t know much about Ivanka’’s role, other than that she will   function as her father’’s ”eyes and ears” in the White House. ’ ’   ”She is intending to spend some time on initiatives that she   cares about, particularly with regard to women in the workplace,”   Gorelick said in an . ’ ’   It is unclear to what capacity Ivanka will be involved in   meetings with foreign diplomats and leaders, or how much she will   be involved in policy debates and legislation. That ambiguity has   some scholars concerned. ’ ’   Ivanka’’s role is ”officially unofficial” and breaches ethical   standards while threatening national security, wrote Susan   Hennessey and Klein Murillo in an  for the Chicago Tribune. Murillo is a Lawfare   contributor and editor of the Harvard Law Review, and Hennessey   is a   fellow at the Brookings Institution and a   former lawyer for the National Security Agency. ’ ’   ”My biggest concern is that this is yet another erosion of   government ethics standards in this White House,” Kathleen Clark,   a law professor at Washington University in St Louis and a   specialist in government ethics, told NPR. ’ ”   In the event that Ivanka’s or anyone else’s role in the White   House is found to be unethical or a legal violation, it’s unclear   whether it would be prosecuted in the courts, which are typically   more likely to hear cases in which there is evidence of damage or   injury to one party. In a case like this, they may consider the   issue a political conflict and decline to hold a hearing. ” ’   ”A lot of these things are settled practice and no one has come   close to [crossing a line],” Michaels said. ”But now we’’re   [testing the limits] pretty often, and all these legal questions   that haven’’t been tested much are becoming important.” ’ ’First daughter Ivanka Trump is set to assume a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’