’  ’ ”   Julian Assange’s website WikiLeaks is in possession of what   appears to be CIA hacking tools that can target popular computers   like Apple’s iPhones and Macs as well as products from other big   tech companies like Microsoft and Google.  ” ’   Assange has said that WikiLeaks will share details of the   vulnerabilities with Apple and other big tech companies, so they   can fix the vulnerabilities that the CIA uses for its   hacking tools. ’ ’   ”We have decided to work with them to give them some exclusive   access to the additional technical details that we have so that   fixes can be developed and pushed out,” Assange said in a press   conference earlier this month. ’ ’   But Apple didn’’t sound very grateful to Assange for his   ”exclusive” offer. In fact, Apple’’s public response to WikiLeaks   was downright frosty. ”We have not negotiated with Wikileaks for   any information,” said Apple in a statement provided to   Business Insider on Thursday. ’ ”   The statement said that WikiLeaks was just like anyone else,   despite its stolen CIA files: It could submit bugs through a   standard process, and that while they may have been briefly in   touch, Apple hasn’t seen anything that hasn’t been tweeted or   posted to the WikiLeaks website.  ” ’   Then, to top it off, Apple says that WikiLeaks, with its  to release ways to attack Apple and other tech   companies’’ products after 90 days if bugs are not   ”fixed,”  is actively working to harm iPhone users: ’ ”   There’s no other way to read this as anything but an   unconditional slam on Julian Assange, and essentially, a   promise that Apple will not work with him or WikiLeaks. ” ’   Apple is not happy with WikiLeaks at all.  ’ ’  ’ ’   What hackers like those that work for the CIA need to really   control someone’’s phone or computer is what’’s called a ” ”   vulnerability. ’ ”     are basically secret bugs that can be used by   professionals to break software and gain access to a system. But   one problem for the CIA and other hackers is that     expire: as soon as they’re known, the tech companies fix the bug,   making the exploit useless. ” ’   Apple, in particular, kills vulnerabilities .   Google and Microsoft are also equally good at squashing      —   maybe even better than Apple.  ’ ”   The documents that WikiLeaks is publishing are not code or   instructions to recreate an exploit, but strongly suggest that   the CIA had an arsenal of   at some point  —   and if any   organization can be expected to have a library of     vulnerabilities, it’s the CIA.  ” ”   This doesn’t just affect Apple: So far, WikiLeaks has dumped two   batches of documents from the CIA. The one released earlier this   week included details on old Mac and iPhone exploits. The   first batch mentioned alleged vulnerabilities in Microsoft   Windows and Google Android as well  —   all patched so far,   according to the companies. But WikiLeaks says they have   more files they haven’t shown the public yet. ” ’   Microsoft said in a statement to Business Insider that all the   vulnerabilities mentioned in the first WikiLeaks batch have been   fixed: ”Our investigation confirmed that the information released   on March 7 is dated, and the disclosed issues are already   addressed in modern systems.” ’ ’   Google  that security updates ”already shield users from many of   these alleged vulnerabilities.” Google, Microsoft, and Apple have   encouraged their users to update their software.  ’ ’  ’ ’   The way WikiLeaks is dripping its leaks out in batches leaves   companies like Apple, Google, and Microsoft in a tricky position. ’ ”   These companies can’t really confirm without the code   whether the   are legitimate or not. (All they really   have is descriptions of the exploits.) But it also can’t wholly   dismiss the leaks  —   or even future leaks  —   in case some do end up   being live exploits.  ” ”   For example, since the vulnerabilities are described in top   secret confidential files, it could be legally dangerous for a   company like Apple or Microsoft to talk to Assange and WikiLeaks   to see purported tools and files that haven’t been made public   yet, .  ” ’   So companies need to be careful about how they’’re talking to   Assange. ”WikiLeaks made initial contact via secure@microsoft. com   and we have followed up, treating them as we would any other   finder,” a Microsoft spokeperson told Business Insider.  ’ ”   Essentially, tech companies can’t treat WikiLeaks differently   than any other bug finder.  ” ’   Making it more difficult is that WikiLeaks seems to be   misrepresenting the content of the dumps in its     announcements, spurring   and potentially misleading news   coverage, security experts who evaluated the contents of the dump   . ’ ’  ’ ’   WikiLeaks never mentions in its announcement how old any of the   various files are, for example. And WikiLeaks uses grandiose   language, declaring that the CIA has ”lost control of the   majority of its hacking arsenal.” ’ ’   Plus, by releasing the leaked files    WikiLeaks is   making it nearly impossible for a big tech company to say that   all the problems in the leak have been fixed  —   what if   Assange is sitting on a doozy of a bug?  ’ ”   It doesn’t look that way  —   so far, the security community has   been laughing at how old and outdated many of the documents   published by WikiLeaks have been.  ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI wonder if Wikileaks has 0days for any other recent devices, like the Vax   or my Atari 2600. ’t’t’ ’  ’ ’   Speaking privately, tech companies and their lawyers do not see   Assange as a defender, as he has been . ’ ”   Tech companies aren’t particularly upset at the CIA for   finding vulnerabilities in their products, pointing out that most   people expect the CIA to develop vulnerabilities  —   spying is kind   of the agency’s purpose  —   and that the targeted attacks described   in the WikiLeaks files are preferable to the mass remote   surveillance described in the NSA files leaked by Edward   Snowden.  ” ’   But Assange is not Snowden, and his CIA leaks have not been   received warmly in the tech industry. Ultimately, he puts   tech companies in a bad position.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tApple’’s claim that it has ”fixed” all ”vulnerabilities” described in DARKMATTER is duplicitous. EFI is a systemic problem, not a  . ’t’t’ ”   Obviously companies like Apple and Microsoft want to patch any   possible vulnerabilities as soon as possible, but the way   Assange is releasing the CIA files puts them in a terrible   position: there’s not enough to go on, it’s possibly illegal to   obtain more details, and WikiLeaks is withholding   information. ” ”   So as Assange continues to publish bits and pieces of his   trove of files, expect big tech companies to go through a   predictable dance: First the files will appear online, and   about 24 hours later, you’ll hear that security researchers have   found that the files are already old news.  ” ”Julian Assange’s website WikiLeaks is in. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’