’The Trump aesthetic is far from subtle.’ ” Trump’s resort and club in Palm Beach, Florida, you’ll see lots of intricately detailed stonework,   rugs, and gilded family crests. The family’s penthouse atop Trump Tower in New York City is lavishly decorated in the French rococo style, incorporating things like ornate columns, curving wood furniture, and lots and lots of gold leaf. Trump has even been  in Louis XV chairs and elaborately upholstered sofas.” ’And now it appears that many Americans are also on the verge of ditching minimalism in favor of an aesthetic that incorporates some of those same    design elements.’ ”If you’re the type to regularly skim interior design blogs or peruse furniture stores, you’ve likely noticed a lot of muted colors, sharp lines, and   furniture. ” ’For the last several years, minimalism (”less is more”) has been the dominant trend in designing the interiors of homes across America and the rest of the western world. Decor brands both high and low  —   from Ikea and West Elm to Crate & Barrel and Room & Board  —   have stocked their stores with simply designed, modern furniture in the hopes of appealing to the masses. Lifestyle gurus like Marie Kondo became famous by spreading the gospel of throwing away everything except the things that you really needed. ’ ’But in the wake of that, a new movement is on the rise that marks a return to more classical, ornate styles. Dubbed ”maximalism,” it calls for bold colors, sometimes clashing patterns and textures, and, in some cases, lots and lots of stuff.’ ’In a  titled ”10 Signs You Might Be a Maximalist,” Apartment Therapy’’s Nancy Mitchell writes such distinguishing qualities as ”You have a collection of collections” and ”You went to Versailles once and thought it was a little underwhelming.” ’ ’But more designers are hoping the trend catches on in the American homes of today.’ ’’ ’’ ’”More is more,”  a New   interior designer who describes her personal style as ”maximalist” said to Business Insider. According to Bikoff, her own style is a result, in part, of her upbringing in a minimalistically decorated home.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”And while the Trump family does certainly have a taste for gold, Bikoff says that she thinks people might be attracted to a maximalist look for altogether different reasons. It’s more about an expression of artistic taste rather than an overt display of wealth.” ’’ ’My upholsterer is an    Italian man. The art to upholstery, with all of the tassels, and all of the details  —   there’’s so much art to that that is very true to maximalist culture. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The Trump aesthetic is far from subtle. At. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’