’  ’ ”   After the unraveling of the GOP’s plan to revamp the American   healthcare system, Republican leaders have turned their attention   to other legislative matters. ” ’   But the failure has laid bare the warring factions within the   Republican Party and signaled that fights to come may turn out   similar to the one over the American Health Care Act. ’ ’   During the debate on the AHCA, conservative Republican members of   the House Freedom Caucus were able to hold out and block the bill   because it did not meet their ideological muster in repealing   Obamacare, the healthcare law known formally as the Affordable   Care Act. At the same time, attempts by the Trump administration   to appease these conservatives caused more moderate Republicans,   such as the Tuesday Group caucus, to withdraw their support of   the bill. ’ ”   President Donald Trump has selected tax reform as his next target   after the healthcare bill’s defeat, and battles over government   funding and raising the nation’s debt ceiling loom. These issues   will reveal the extent of the divide in the GOP  —   and how well   Trump can lead a political party. ” ’   Trump and his top advisers have hinted that his next agenda item   will be tax reform. But another fight on the horizon would have   immediate and deeper implications. ’ ’’ ”   Government funding is set to run out late next month, setting up   a potential government shutdown on April 29, the 100th day of   Trump’s presidency. Then, sometime over the summer  —   most likely   in July, according to estimates  —   Congress will have to raise the   nation’s borrowing limit or face defaulting on some of the   federal debt. ” ’   A default would be disastrous for the US and the global economy.   But   members of the GOP pushed the country to that brink   in 2011 and 2013, when the federal government shut down for more   than two weeks and Congress hurled toward the edge of the debt   ceiling. ’ ’   Greg Valliere, a political analyst at Horizon Investments, said   the possibility of another shutdown and a default would mirror   the fight over healthcare. ’ ’   ”Despite all the glib predictions that tax reform can now move   quickly, that overlooks the   of an epic spring   battle over spending,” Valliere wrote in a note to clients on   Monday. ”Talk about  : Once again the fight will be among   Republicans, with the Freedom Caucus seeking deep   spending cuts while moderate Republicans fight to soften Trump’’s   spending reductions.” ’ ’   Moderate Republicans would want to avoid a shutdown, while   conservatives, including the Freedom Caucus, would not want to   raise the ceiling or pass a spending deadline without cuts. This   could leave Trump with no real option but to get Democrats on   board, meaning they could push for provisions for legislation   that would keep the government funded or raise the debt ceiling. ’ ’   Of course, there is always the    option to  to pay down some of the debt, which   evidently was  during   previous   fights. ’ ’   Tax reform in the vein of what Trump and Republican leaders have   suggested would also be difficult to achieve. ’ ’   Trump has said he wants to  from   its current 35% as well as lower personal taxes. On February 9,   Trump said he would unveil ”something phenomenal in terms of tax”   over the next two or three weeks. ’ ’   But Valliere said neither congressional GOP leaders nor the Trump   team had a full plan ready to go. ’ ’   ”By summer, tax reform finally may be moving with a bill making   it to the House floor, but don’’t expect much action anytime soon   (the Ways and Means Committee will convene a meeting tomorrow but   the panel’’s bill isn’’t ready),” Valliere said. ”The Trump   Administration doesn’’t have its tax plan finished, either;   Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and most congressional   Republicans are not fully up to speed on the enormously   complicated tax issues that have to be resolved.” ’ ” Trump and his   team like to talk about the fact that the tax system hasn’t been   reformed since President Ronald Reagan did so in 1986. There are   reasons for this: Taxes are complicated, congressional   Republicans have to serve a variety of interests and businesses   in their home districts, and there will be sharp rebukes from   Democrats. ” ’   Gluskin Sheff’’s David Rosenberg touched on a similar theme in a   note to clients on Monday. He noted that it took Reagan five   years to craft his tax reform and get it through Congress  —   and   right now, there is ”no one firm GOP plan for the initiative,”   Rosenberg said. This is compounded by the fallout from the fight   over healthcare. ’ ’   ”In any event, a leader with a  % approval rating and who   spent political capital on his failed ’’repeal and replace’’   Obamacare bill is not likely to have an easy time getting a tax   bill through the Republican Party, where the schisms are wide as   ever,” Rosenberg said. ’ ”After the unraveling of the GOP’s plan to. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’