 In 2014, I wrote an article about New Hampshire’s very swingy congressional districts. With the same Democrat and Republican facing off in the First District for the fourth  —   yes, fourth  —   time, I couldn’t resist another visit. Presidential candidate after presidential candidate visits this city, the biggest in New Hampshire. In late January or early February, its strip malls and   main drag can feel like the center of the political world, as the news media descends and the voters decide whom they will rocket to the center of the presidential race with their     primary. It has also become part of a more predictable biennial battle: The tug of war between Representative Frank C. Guinta, a Republican, and former Representative Carol   a Democrat, over the congressional seat that one of them has held for a decade. Watching them debate is “like seeing an old married couple rehash the same argument year after year after year,” said Andy Smith, the director of the Survey Center at the University of New Hampshire. No one wants to see that anymore, he said. The extended nature of this particular matchup is due in large part to the dynamics of the district  —   and to the tenacity of two party outsiders who see, in alternating elections, a path to victory. New Hampshire’s First District is one of a shrinking number of swing districts, with a large number of independent voters and perhaps a slightly Republican tilt. Ms.   first elected when she was a   social worker, has done better during presidential election years, and Mr. Guinta in midterm elections. It is hard to keep the seat  —   but also hard to suffer a resounding defeat. Ms.   first won the seat, which had previously been controlled by Republicans for decades, in 2006, amid a swell of antiwar sentiment that helped Democrats around the country. She held on to it in 2008, when President Obama was elected, but lost it to Mr. Guinta, a former mayor of Manchester, in the Tea Party wave of 2010. Ms.   recaptured it as Mr. Obama won   in 2012, but lost it, again to Mr. Guinta, in 2014. This time around, polling shows Ms.   with a clear advantage. A WMUR Granite State poll released this month showed her with 43 percent support among likely voters, and Mr. Guinta with 29 percent. Voters are “probably sick and tired of these two candidates running against each other,” said David Wasserman, the House editor of The Cook Political Report. “The race essentially becomes a function of turnout as a result. ” Both candidates have overcome skepticism within their parties to return to the fray this year. Some of New Hampshire’s top Republicans, including Senator Kelly Ayotte, suggested last year that Mr. Guinta should resign after he settled a campaign finance violation, but he slipped through the primary after embracing Donald J. Trump. Hacked emails from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee reviewed by The Portsmouth Herald showed party leaders trying to encourage someone to challenge Ms.   in a primary, but he did not enter the race. “These two, in particular, are so stubborn,” Mr. Wasserman said, “that I’ll be surprised when they stop running against each other. ” For the candidates, it is like seeing disliked neighbors emerge from their house once every two years, and wishing that they would just move away. “I wish I weren’t running against the same person, but he did win his primary, so here we go again,” Ms.   said. Said Mr. Guinta, “She does tend to talk about almost identical issues that she’s campaigned on in previous campaigns. ” There are also   candidates, including Shawn O’Connor, who is running as an independent. He, along with Mr. Guinta and Ms.   spoke at a congressional forum here this month. “That was kind of nice to hear someone else for a change,” said Christine Williams, a college admissions director and a Republican.