’  ’ ”   Emirates Airline won’t be able to gauge the financial effects of   the US government’s  but the rollout of the policy last weekend was   relatively smooth, its president, Sir Tim Clark, said in an   interview with Business Insider. ” ’   ”I can’’t tell you the   effects because it’’s still early   days,” Clark said by phone from Dubai. ’ ’   Emirates, one of nine airlines affected by the ban, counts on   direct flights to the US for about 11% of its revenue, Clark   said. The policy prohibits passengers from carrying electronic   devices larger than a cellphone on direct flights from the Middle   East. ’ ’   The ban took effect on March 25, and Clark said that while some   operational issues came up, things mostly went OK. Emirates   expects to have a better idea of the financial effects by the   middle of May, when discretionary travelers such as those heading   on summer vacation start to book travel. ’ ’   ”When they start looking a bit flaky, then we’’ll have to decide   what we’’ll have to do,” Clark said. ”Hopefully things settle down   and it’’ll be business as close to normal as possible.”    Emirates did feel an immediate effect from the Trump   administration’’s January immigration ban. That executive order  —     which prohibited immigration from seven   countries    —   was blocked by a court ruling, but not before the airline was   able to see its effect on bookings, Clark said. ’ ’   ”The rate at which our bookings were growing started to flatten   out and go south. It stabilized, and then the second executive   order came out, and we’’re watching that very carefully,” Clark   said about the ban. ’ ”   Clark thinks the airline will have an idea of the effect of   Trump’s second executive order  —   also under a   stay    —   by May. Emirates has been expanding its business into the US   for several years and now flies direct from Dubai to 11 cities in   the country. ” ’   ”The US operation is becoming progressively more important. It’’s   about 11% to 12% of what we do at the moment  —   growing probably   up to 15% at some point with 18 flights a day to 11   destinations,” Clark said. ’ ’   ”It’’s not as big as Australia, Europe, or the United Kingdom, but   it’’s growing all the time. It’’s vital to us actually because   we’’ve opened so many points which are very popular with our   client base.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Emirates did encounter a few bumps over the weekend. ’ ’   ”There have been a few hiccups, mainly on the other end, but   we’’re working with the TSA here in Dubai and at the airports to   work on the baggage and laptop procedures,” Clark went on. ’ ’   ”I think it was a bit of a challenge for the 11 US airports we   fly into. I’’m not sure they were that well prepared, even though   the instructions had come from the US.” ’ ’   According to Clark, arriving flights have experienced      baggage delivery at some airports. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think they were as coordinated as they could have been   in the logistics of dealing with the bags because they decided to   screen all of the   bags and delayed a few bags on the   baggage belt,” Clark said. ’ ’   ”We are finding that as the days move on, they are getting better   at what they do, and they all understand the criticality of   speeding the bags and laptops to the arrival hall for our   passengers.” ’ ”   Further, while there hasn’t been a lot of pushback from   passengers, Emirates is still trying to work things out with   entities that don’t allow their employees to check work laptops.   Chief among them is the US government. ” ”   That’s because all  on their employers’ tab fly Emirates. (The   tickets are sold by JetBlue, but the flights are operated by   Emirates under a   agreement.) ” ”   The ban has faced criticism from   and   intelligence experts, who say it’s unclear what its rationale is.   The Department of Homeland Security said that intelligence shows   terrorist groups are targeting commercial airliners by smuggling   explosives in devices such as laptops. This only increased after   the UK  —   working from the same intelligence as the US  —   chose not   to ban flights coming from Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar. ” ’   ”Both countries recognize there’’s a clear and present threat, and   that had to be dealt with. We will comply with the requests of   the states we fly to  —   otherwise they won’’t allow us to fly,”   Clark said. ”I can’’t comment on why the Brits did one thing and   the Americans did another. I think there was a common threat and   chose to address them in different way, and I’’m not criticizing   either of them for doing what they did, and we’’ll just do what we   can to help out and secure the safety of our operation, which is   vital for us.” ’ ’   Some industry analysts have speculated that an ongoing dispute   between US airlines (American, Delta, United) and their Middle   Eastern rivals (Emirates, Etihad, Qatar Airways) played a role. ’ ”   Clark doesn’t believe this is the case. ” ’   ”Yes, there are issues. The infantile approach of the US carriers   against the Gulf carriers continues. But I’’m a believer that   states will not cross over into the commercial side of things   when you’’re talking about safety of operation where lives are at   stake. This is not something you mix up,” the Emirates boss told   us. ’ ’   ”They won’’t give up, but I don’’t believe they’’ve guided the hand   of the US government with regard to this. ’ ’   ”I remain confident, and I’’ve had multiple undertakings from the   people who represent the United Arab Emirates in the US   government who have assured me that is not the case, and I’’m   inclined to believe them. I don’’t think that’’s something the   United States government would do given the very strong   relationship they have with the United Arab Emirates. ’ ’   ”Now, I hope that I’’m right and that I’’m never proved wrong,”   Clark added cautiously. ’ ’  ’ ”   But overall, Clark is pleased with how things have gone.   Emirates’ communication with its customers  —   reminding them to   check their laptops and enjoy the   entertainment  —   seems   to have been successful. ” ’   ”It’’s working quite well. A lot of people paid heed to the   message and packed their laptops in their suitcases,” Clark said   of his airline’’s operation. ’ ”   Emirates’  service, which gives   passengers access to their laptops until the moment they board     flights, found fewer takers than expected, he said. ” ”   With the laptop ban still in its early stages, the situation   remains fluid. Stay tuned. There’s likely more to come. ” ” If you’re a business traveler affected by the US laptop ban,   you can share your story with   transportation@businessinsider. com. ” ”Emirates Airline won’t be able to gauge the. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’