’  ’ ’   When UK Prime Minister Theresa May delivered her keynote Brexit   speech in January, she spoke from the same London venue where   Margaret Thatcher declared the European Union, in its earliest   form, ”open for business” in 1988. ’ ”   Former Prime Minister Thatcher was one of the EU’s main   architects, but May will be remembered as the British premier who   oversaw Britain’s exit from the   bloc, fundamentally   reshaping the body as a result. ” ”   The decision of the British people to vote to leave the EU in the   June referendum was widely regarded as the country’s most   significant political event since the end of World War II. It was   the decision to wrench Britain from a family of nations that it   had been part of for nearly 50 years. It dealt a huge body blow   to the EU. ” ’   This week, May told her Cabinet that the Article 50 letter she   intends send to the EU on Wednesday, March 29, will be ”one of   the most important documents in our government’’s recent history.” ’ ”   The letter will formally notify the EU of Britain’s exit and   trigger a   negotiation that will lay the foundations for   a new chapter of British history  —   as a European nation no longer   in the EU. ” ’   Before 2009 and the creation of Article 50, there was no clear   way for member states to exit the EU. It was passed as part of   the Lisbon Treaty, an international agreement signed by all EU   member states. ’ ’   The key parts of the text state that any country wishing to leave   the EU must do so by their own ”constitutional arrangements” and   that EU treaties will cease to apply to the exiting exactly two   years from notification. ’ ’   May will trigger Article 50 on Wednesday. The EU is expected to   respond within 48 hours. Once the EU acknowledges the   notification, a   exit process will officially get   underway, whereby Britain and EU negotiators will try to reach an   agreement on a divorce deal that both sides deem reasonably   satisfactory. ’ ”   In the runup to the 2015 UK general election, former Prime   Minister David Cameron promised to hold a nationwide referendum   on Britain’s membership of the EU if he was elected for a second   time. ” ’   True to his word, Cameron started his second term and announced a   referendum would take place on June 23, 2016. The campaign was   long,   and at times controversial. ’ ’   Cameron and the vast majority of Britain’’s most senior   politicians advocated for ”Remain” while the ”Leave” movement was   fronted by now Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and former leader   of the UK Independence Party Nigel Farage. ’ ’  ’ ”   Similar to President Trump’s victory in the US election, most   pollsters and commentators in Britain were proved wrong in their   predictions of a narrow Remain win, with the public voting 52% to   48% in favour of leaving. ” ’   The result triggered a political earthquake. Cameron resigned as   prime minister and was succeeded by May. The Labour Party tried   but ultimately failed to oust leader Jeremy Corbyn. British   politics had been rocked to its core. ’ ”   May has since been cautious on the issue of Brexit. For a long   time, she played her cards close to her chest, refusing to reveal   the government’s progress in preparing to leave the EU or what   she hoped to achieve in negotiations. ” ”   However, we now know that Britain is set to drop out of the EU in   March 2019 and will almost certainly leave the EU’s essential   core institutions: the single market and the European Court of   Justice. ” ’   The single market is a huge trade arena that allows all EU member   states to trade freely with one another without tariffs, quotas,   or tax. Importantly, though, membership of the single market   requires member states to accept the unlimited, free in and   outward movement people, which resulted in immigration being a   big concern for Brits. ’ ”   The European Court of Justice is the EU’s highest court and   ensures that all member states comply with EU law. By cutting   ties with the ECJ, Britain will no longer be subject to EU law,   and British Parliament, Brexiteers argue, will be completely   sovereign. ” ’   May is not renowned for taking risks. She is a famously   strategic, cautious politician, who has made clear that she would   take her time with Brexit and not rush triggering Article 50. ’ ’   This was despite pleas from Brexiteers like Farage to trigger   Article 50 as soon as possible. Strangely, Labour leader Corbyn   called for May to trigger Article 50 the day after the   referendum, despite supporting ”Remain.” ’ ’   Plus, Britain needed time to prepare for talks. It is set to be a   mammoth diplomatic task requiring the expertise of hundreds of   experts. The government has spent the past few months putting   together a team for negotiations. ’ ’   British public opinion remains pretty much unchanged on whether   the country should leave the EU. ’ ’   Numerous polls published since the June referendum have shown   that the British public still narrowly favours Brexit despite   warnings of economic apocalypse and political turmoil.    found that 46% of Brits felt that Brexit was the right decision,   compared to 42% who said it was the wrong decision. ’ ”   The public remains divided  —   and Britain’s political parties are   too. A war erupted inside the Labour Party, the government’s   official opposition, over leader Corbyn’s decision to make the   party’s parliamentarians vote in favour of May triggering Article   50. ” ’   May’’s Conservative Party is split between ”hard Brexiteers” who   want a quick, clean, and total divorce, and party moderates who   are keen to respect the referendum result but are concerned about   the consequences of Britain abandoning its biggest trading   market. ’ ”   Brexit has also raised new questions about Britain’s place on the   world stage. ” ’  ’ ’   UK politicians watched on uneasily as May was pictured      with Trump in Washington, whose contentious travel   ban and controversial remarks triggered huge protests in London   and cities across the country. ’ ”   The US is one of a handful of   states that May hopes will   be major parts of Britain’s   international trade   network. ” ’   Whether Trump, with his ”America first” policies, is as keen to   sign up the US to such a network remains to be seen. ’ ”   Although the   Article 50 process is set to be activated   next week, talks between Britain and the EU probably won’t get   underway until at least May. The   bloc has publicly   stated that it wants time to prepare. ” ’   The two years will be spent thrashing out a divorce that both   sides can agree to. ’ ’   One of the key issues will be how much Britain must pay to the EU   before it leaves. The latter wants Britain to hand over £50   billion ($62 billion). Britain is keen to try to negotiate a   significantly reduced figure. ’ ’   Another issue will be whether May wants to arrange a transitional   deal to fill the gap between Britain dropping out of the EU and   agreeing to a new,   trade deal with the EU. Most experts   expect a     trade deal to take at least five years   to finish, meaning a temporary arrangement will be needed. ’ ’   For the EU, the next few years represent one of the most crucial   chapters in its history. EU Parliament head Guy Verhofstadt    that Brexit was an   opportunity for the EU to become a tighter, more unified family   of nations, but this ambition is under threat from populist,     movements in numerous member states. ’ ”   The failure of   populist Gert Wilders to win the recent   Dutch election was a boost for the EU but a threat awaits in the   prospect of French President Marine le Pen, a       candidate who has promised to hold a referendum   on France’s EU membership if elected, the same promise Cameron   made. ” ’   It is worth noting, though, that   surveys conducted   since Brexit show that support for the EU generally remains   reasonably high across the 27 remaining member states despite the   rise of populist movements, bar the obvious exception of Greece,   which has been in an economic   with the EU for a number   of years. ’ ’   The spectre that looms over pretty much every aspect of Brexit is   uncertainty. ’ ’   Despite the best efforts of politicians, experts, and journalists   to predict how the political landscape will change over the next   few years, nobody really knows what it will happen. What May   wants to achieve at the negotiating table could be radically   different from what she actually leaves Brussels with  —   but, then   again, it could be very similar. ’ ’   But uncertainty carries heavy baggage of its own. ’ ”   EU citizens living in Britain will worry for their futures until   their right to remain is guaranteed. British businesses will wait   anxiously to see how their ability to trade will be affected once   Brexit is completed. The public will hope that the economy is   resolute in the face of uncertainty and doesn’t fall into another   recession. ” ’   If populism remains a force to be reckoned with across Europe,   then member states holding referendums of their own cannot be   ruled out, especially with issues like immigration and   unemployment only growing in salience. ’ ’When UK Prime Minister Theresa May delivered. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’