’  ’ ’   The NCAA has imposed a   deadline on North Carolina to   repeal its controversial ”bathroom law,”a local sports event   planner said on Tuesday. ’ ”   If lawmakers don’t repeal the law, known as HB2, the NCAA will   reject the state’s more than 100 bids to host championship   college sports events over the next five years. ” ’   The ultimatum was revealed in a statement from Greater Raleigh   Sports Alliance executive director Scott Dupree around noon on   Tuesday. ’ ’   ”I have confirmed with a contact very close to the NCAA that its   deadline for HB2 is 48 hours from now,” Dupree said  according to local news reports. ’ ’   ”If HB2 has not been resolved by that time, the NCAA will have no   choice but to move forward without the North Carolina bids. The   NCAA has already delayed the bid review process once and has   waited as long as it possibly can, and now it must finalize all   championship site selections through spring of 2022.” ’ ’’ ’   The report comes less than a week after  North Carolina’’s 133 bids were on the   chopping block. In a statement last week, the NCAA said HB2 did   not assure ”a safe, healthy, discrimination free atmosphere for   all those watching and participating in our events.” ’ ’   Passed just over a year ago, HB2 blocks LGBT protections and   forces transgender people to use the bathroom that aligns with   their biological sex. ’ ’   The law already cost the Tar Heel State more than a dozen marquee   college sports events for the current academic year, after the   NCAA and Atlantic Coast Conference relocated several championship   events last summer. ’ ’   Should the NCAA follow through on its ultimatum, it would strike   one of the heaviest blows yet to the state economy  —   which will   suffer nearly $4 billion in financial losses because of the law,   according to . The figure factors in losses   from frozen business expansions, canceled concerts, and relocated   business conventions, all attributed to HB2. ’ ”   Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have expressed a desire to   repeal the law, however they have disagreed on how far it should   be scaled back. One proposal, floated by state Republicans, would   repeal the law while limiting local governments’ ability to   protect LGBT residents, . ” ’   It is unclear whether such a compromise would satisfy the NCAA.   Democrats have called for a full repeal of the law. ’ ’   After Dupree released his statement on the NCAA deadline, he   released a  with Dennis Edwards, president and CEO of the   Visit Raleigh tourism group, in which they urged lawmakers to   solve the crisis while avoiding the appearance of favoring one   outcome. ’ ’   ”We will not endorse any one bill,” the pair said in their   statement. ”We simply seek a swift compromise that will allow us   to begin to repair the reputation of our region and state.” ’ ’The NCAA has imposed a   deadline on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’