’  ’ ’   Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham said on Wednesday that he was open   to ”looking into everything” related to Russia’’s interference in   the 2016 election  —   including Jared Kushner’’s meeting in December   with the CEO of a sanctioned Russian bank. ’ ’   Kushner volunteered on Monday to be interviewed by the Senate   Intelligence Committee about his meetings with the US ambassador   to Russia, Sergey Kislyak, and the CEO of Vnesheconombank, Sergey   Gorkov, during the transition. ’ ’   That interview will likely take place behind closed doors, with   Kushner under oath. ’ ”   Graham, the South Carolina Republican, told Business Insider that   while he thought Kushner’s meeting with Kislyak was appropriate   in his role as a transition official, he didn’t know much about   Kushner’s meeting with Gorkov. ” ’   ”He should explain what that meeting was about,” Graham said,   adding that he’’s generally in favor of ”looking into everything”   related to Russia’’s election interference. ’ ’’ ’   When asked if he thought an independent commission should be   established to look into Russia’’s efforts to undermine the   election, Graham said that he did not believe that was ”justified   yet.” ’ ’   ”I think Congress can handle this,” Graham said. ”If it gets to   the point where we can’’t, then that will be the time to establish   an independent commission. But I don’’t think we’’re there yet.” ’ ’   Graham emphasized that even though it is ”important” to   investigate whether any campaign ties existed between Trump and   Russia, he wanted to stay focused on the ”big picture” of   Russia’’s interference in the election. ’ ’   ”We need to punish Russia for what they did. Instead of focusing   on the intrigue of the moment, of who met with who, we should   focus on what we do know: We know that Russia hacked into the   Democratic National Committee, we know that Russia hacked into   John Podesta’’s email and leaked the documents to WikiLeaks to   destabilize our election. And one of the things I don’’t want to   lose sight of is that Russia needs to pay a price.” ’ ’   Graham also said on Wednesday that he wanted to levy new   sanctions on Russia for its   meddling, and that   he hoped to have a draft sanctions bill prepared before the   French elections late next month, and for the bill to be signed   by Trump before the German elections in September. ’ ’   Both of those moves, Graham said, would deter Russia from   interfering in European elections. ’ ’   ”I don’’t want to be on the sidelines,” Graham said. ”Ronald   Reagan wasn’’t on the sidelines. This is as much about us as it is   about Russia  —   if we don’’t lead the free world, it will be hard   for anyone to lead.” ’ ’Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham said on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’