’  ’ ’   When tech mogul Elon Musk founded SpaceX in 2002, the rocket   company ”basically consisted of carpet and a mariachi band,” Musk   . ”That was it.” ’ ’   Today, SpaceX employs hundreds of people all over the US and has   expanded its size, scope, and prowess with increasing revenues   from government and private contracts. ’ ”   And on Thursday, the company’s ballooning expertise culminated in   the  of an orbital rocket booster  —   the most   expensive part of a launch system. ” ’  ’ ’   ”This is going to be a huge revolution for spaceflight. It’’s been   15 years to get to this point,” Musk said during a  of the launch. ”I’’m at a loss for   words.” ’ ’   With that historic event in the rearview mirror, Musk said SpaceX   was looking to make it a routine  —   if not boring  —   affair to   launch, land, and relaunch rockets within 24 hours. ’ ’   Musk told reporters in a   briefing that he was   ”confident it’’s possible to achieve a hundredfold reduction” in   the . ’ ”   There’s no shortage of work to get that done, as well as SpaceX’s   other ambitious projects (like building a  to blanket Earth in     internet access). ” ’   In fact, SpaceX is looking to fill 473 open positions as of   Friday, . ’ ’  ’ ”   SpaceX’s careers page offers a bewildering variety of jobs across   41 departments, and all the postings begin with this     (if not crazy) mission statement: ” ”   Of the 473 positions, 313, or about   are based at   SpaceX’s global headquarters in Hawthorne, California, which is   southwest of Los Angeles. The rest of the jobs are sprinkled   across Brownsville and McGregor in Texas; Cape Canaveral,   Florida; Irvine and Vandenberg in California; Redmond,   Washington; and Washington, DC. ” ’   About half of the positions call for engineers, 33% for   technicians, 5% for machinists, 5% for specialists, 5% for   managers, and 1% for directors. ’ ’  ’ ”   These gigs  —   nearly all of them    —   don’t all require   multiple degrees or   experience working with rocket   engines, robots, software, explosive fuels, or other     systems required . ” ”   For example, SpaceX is looking for  in   Washington, DC, to protect its interests and ensure it’s legally   compliant. ” ”   Or if you’re a former combat medic who knows how to secure and   patrol a site, you might want to be a  in Vandenberg. ” ’   Are you a ”passionate, experienced” line cook with at least two   years of experience? The company may have    in McGregor. ’ ’   What about  who   likes the idea of ”fueling” SpaceX’’s ”hardworking teams with the   best sustainable products around” in Hawthorne? Musk is even   looking for a good  there,   too. ’ ’  ’ ’   People who have worked at SpaceX  —   or at least claim to have done   so  —   offer   of their . ’ ’   Some have praised Musk’’s bold leadership, saying they would    ”into the gates of hell carrying suntan oil” if he   asked. But former SpaceX interns have  that ”people who work there are more   driven to work than they are driven to go home. They get burned   out really quickly.” ’ ’   Others have said that while SpaceX employees are ”some of the     and brightest people in the world,” they are   ”universally defeated” by the intense work demands and   expectations. ’ ”   If that doesn’t phase you, the résumé you give SpaceX had better   boast some serious qualifications. ” ”   You’re going to . ” ’When tech mogul Elon Musk founded SpaceX in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’