’  ’ ’ The INSIDER Summary:  ’ ’   There’’s a basic rule when it comes to buttoning up a suit jacket:   ””  —   if you have a     jacket, sometimes button the top one, always   button the middle one, and never button the bottom one. ’ ’   In a   suit, . ’ ”   For a waistcoat, there’s a similar rule: always leave the   bottom button open. ” ”   It’s fashion gospel for men (). Men’s suit designers often even tailor the   fabric so suit jackets and waistcoats looks more flattering   unbuttoned at the bottom. ” ”   But it’s also a strange fashion rule   —    if you’re not going to use   it? Where does this tradition come from? ” ’  ’ ”   As     will tell you, there’s a story   that King Edward VII, back when he was the Prince of Wales and   suits were becoming in vogue, got too fat for his waistcoat so he   stopped buttoning the bottom button to make it fit better. ” ’   Out of respect for him, the British court  —   and, eventually,   everyone else in England and the British colonies  —   stopped   buttoning their bottom buttons, too. ’ ’  ’ ’   The ”Edwardian theory,”  isn’’t always taken seriously. It sounds too silly to   be true. But historians of British fashion consider it fact, if a   little muddled over the years. ’ ’   The truth is, Edward VII set the trend for unbuttoning the bottom   button on waistcoats as well as the bottom button   on suit jackets, but for two very different reasons. ’ ’   The story of the ”Edwardian theory” is told by  an English fashion designer   who was the official dressmaker for Queen Elizabeth II for nearly   four decades  —   between her ascension to the throne in 1952 to his   retirement in 1989. ’ ”   His fashion house is on Savile Row, a London spot famous for its   bespoke tailored men’s suits, so Sir Amies knows a thing or two   about suits and courtly fashions. ” ’  ’ ’   In a 1992 lecture he gave to The Royal Society for the   Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce, . The   suit of today was first   introduced in 1906, and was referred to as ”a lounge suit.” ’ ’   It had three buttons, but it was still a little different from   the suit of today  —   it was meant for more casual wear, and   had a loose cut so that it looked best when the wearer was   holding the reins of a horse. As Amies noted, ”of great   importance” was to ”control the drape the position of the button   at the waistline.” ’ ’   The ”lounge suit,” therefore, began to replace traditional riding   coats. The third buttons of riding coats sat below the waist, so   they had to be unbuttoned so the jacket draped properly while   someone was sitting on a horse. ’ ’      ’ ’  ’ ’   When the lounge suit jacket started to become common as an   everyday fashion, Edward VII kept the bottom button undone   to pay homage to the riding coat style they replaced. ’ ’   Edward VII had a ”legendary” appetite, . ’ ’   ”He ate a full meal at breakfast, luncheon, tea, dinner (normally   twelve courses) and supper,” the dictionary reads. ”He drank   moderately, but usually smoked twelve enormous cigars and twenty   cigarettes a day.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Edward was also legendary for his attention to men’s fashion. In   a discussion following Amies’s lecture, a fellow of the   society asked Amies about waistcoats, and why the bottom buttons   of waistcoats (like jackets) should be left undone. Amies said   that tradition is also attributed to Edward. ” ’   ”Edward VII always left his bottom waistcoat button open because   he was fat,” Amies answered. ”He found it more comfortable and   everybody copied it. Waistcoats are now cut for the last button   not to be done up.” ’ ’   The trend, the Oxford Dictionary notes, ”was followed in this in   Britain and the empire but not on the continent or in the USA.”   But nowadays, unbuttoning the bottom of the waistcoat is the   norm. ’ ”     jackets are pretty common, but in the last 40 years,   suits have trended toward having   jackets. You’ll see   only two buttons on some of the most trendy suits, . In that case, follow   Edward’s advice in leaving the bottom button unbuttoned, but do   button the top one. ” ’   For Amies, though, the ideal suit was in the 1980s, when three   buttons were still in vogue. ’ ’   ”The more I look at the three button suit  —   fastened at the   waist correctly, the upper button left undone with an insouciant   air, the lower button unfastened, paying homage to the riding   coat curves  —   the more pleasing I find it to the eye,” he   remarked. ”Its proportions are right.” ’ ’The INSIDER Summary:  When wearing a suit. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’