’  ’ ’   Reporters called it the robot, but its physical presence was   hardly felt. ’ ’   It was almost invisible, just a Microsoft Excel macro that could   write a fairly detailed   report that could then be   edited and polished by a human journalist. ’ ’   But when Reuters introduced the robot to its newsroom in 2007  —     just before the financial crisis  —   it was an early sign that   manufacturing was not the only industry that automation was   infiltrating. ’ ”     workers in fields like journalism, finance,   medicine, and law are seeing an increasing use of machines, but   one much less damaging to workers’ job prospects. ” ’ where machines can take over entire   factory floors in a physical, almost menacing way, machine   learning and artificial intelligence so far are playing fairly   benign roles in the professional world. ’ ’   Reuters and others automate key market headlines that follow a   predictable pattern, including   releases. The   software recognizes the action and reports it accurately to   market clients without human intervention (most of the time). The      reports and for basic sports reporting. ’ ’   Still, job losses in journalism attributed to automation have   been minimal, often nonexistent. If anything, automation has   allowed reporters to do more analysis and   reporting and   move away from the more mundane,       parts of the job. ’ ’   Given the pace of automation and advancement in artificial and   robotic intelligence is fast and unpredictable, it is impossible   to know for sure just what sort broad impact it will have on     employment. But interviews with several experts on   the issue and a review of prevailing economic research suggest   the effects, for now, are viewed as primarily positive. ’ ’   ”In general, any job that involves sitting in front of a computer   manipulating information in some relatively routine, predictable   way is going to be vulnerable to automation,” says Martin Ford, a   software engineer focused on automation and the author of ”Rise   of the Robots: Technology and the Threat of a Jobless Future.” ’ ’   As prime examples, Ford points to automatically generated news   stories and basic contract analysis at law firms, as well as   certain areas of auditing and accounting. Think of a basic     software that someone can purchase online. In   medicine, he says, ”Machine learning systems have already   outperformed human radiologists and pathologists at interpreting   medical images in some cases.” ’ ’   JP Morgan has announced it is now using software that can   accomplish in seconds what it took legal aides 360, 000 hours of   work to do. A surge of algorithmic trading has also considerably   reduced the amount of human input in   activity.   Japan’s Fukoku Life Insurance Co. recently  to automate document processing. ’ ’   And yet unlike for many   workers, the rise of   automation in professional settings may not mean job losses. ’ ’  ’ ’   David Autor, an economist at the MIT Sloan School of Business and   a leading expert on the issue of jobs and automation, is fairly   sanguine in his research.  that the rapid pace of recent technological   growth has not wiped out a significant portion of jobs, but   instead changed the labor market in myriad ways, many positive. ’ ’   ”Automation does indeed substitute for labor —  as it is typically   intended to do,” Autor writes. “However, automation also   complements labor, raises output in ways that lead to higher   demand for labor, and interacts with adjustments in labor   supply.” ’ ”   It’s true that the economic recovery that followed the great   recession was the weakest in recent memory, which means it took   several years for the country to recover the 9 million jobs lost   during the downturn. ” ’   Still, the economic expansion has also been the longest in modern   history and  since the depths of the   slump. The US economy, which is dominated by the services   industry, has consistently generated about 200, 000 jobs a month   in the past two years. The unemployment rate is near historic   lows at 4. 7%. ’ ’   Autor thinks ”journalists and even expert commentators tend to   overstate the extent of machine substitution for human labor and   ignore the strong complementarities between automation and labor   that increase productivity, raise earnings, and augment demand   for labor.” ’ ’   That view is shared by Neil Kinson, the CEO of     Redwood Software, an automation and robotics firm whose clients   include Heineken and  . ’ ’   ”The discussion is overblown by the notion of artificial   intelligence and machines taking over. But a lot of what we’re   seeing is driven by Siri and Alexa,” he told Business Insider.   ”As much as I love and adopt those technologies, it is a leap to   say, whether I’m a bank or a utility, that I would entrust the   management of my customers to that kind of artificial   intelligence.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin came under fire recently    about the possibility   that automation could wipe out a substantial portion of jobs  —     both blue collar and white. ’ ’   ”It’’s not even on our radar screen . .. 50 to 100 more years”   away, he said, in an interview with Axios. ”I’’m not worried at   all” about robots displacing humans in the near future. ”In fact,   I’’m optimistic.” ’ ”   That’s a bit of an odd thing for Mnuchin to say given his   background as a longtime Goldman Sachs banker and later Hollywood   film executive, considering that both industries have all but   been revolutionized by technological change in just the past   decade. ” ’   A mere look at the growing share of market trades done by   electronic algorithms rather than humans should tell the   secretary something about the pace of change in banking. And     imagery has completely redrawn the landscape   of cinematic possibility, including using fewer actors and   costume and stage designers, even for large, epic scenes.    ’ ”   A  suggests Mnuchin could be   understating the challenge from automation to employment   conditions in the US and overseas. Their research found that some   38% of American jobs are at risk of automation by the early 2030s    —   that’s less than 20 years away. In   Germany, that   rate is even higher at 35% and slightly lower but still   substantial at 30% for the UK. ” ’   Still, Mnuchin is correct in seeing AI more as an opportunity   than a threat, especially among jobs requiring college degrees. ’ ’   The PwC survey itself maintains that automation  and therefore is not a     game for the labor market. ’ ’   ”Automation will also boost productivity and wealth, leading to   offsetting additional job gains elsewhere in the economy  —   but   inequality may rise,” according to the survey by PwC chief   economist John Hawksworth and Richard Berriman, a     specialist at the firm. ’ ’   ”Wall Street has seen a dramatic impact,” says Ford. ”By one   account, about a third of the   jobs in NYC have   disappeared since 2000. Trading floors, of course, used to be   full of people calling on phones. Now it is all automated and   most trading is algorithmic. There are now hedge funds run almost   entirely by AI.” ’ ’   Rachel Grimes, the president of the International Federation of   Accountants, agrees that   workers should welcome, not   fear, their electronic colleagues. ’ ’   ”Computers and software have evolved to a point where they can   populate spreadsheets, crunch numbers, and generate financial   statements and earnings reports more quickly and accurately than   any human accountant,” she wrote in a recent  for Business Insider. ’ ’   ”In fact, machines are already taking on many of an accountant’’s   old, routine, administrative chores  —   online tax returns and   bookkeeping software are great examples of routine work that   accountants no longer have to do.” ’ ’   If all goes well, we journalists should also be able to kick our   work up a notch. ’ ’Reporters called it the robot, but its physical. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’