’  ’ ”   It’s over. ” ”   UConn’s   winning streak in women’s college basketball has   come to an end on a   in an overtime loss to   Mississippi State in the national semifinal of the NCAA women’s   basketball tournament. ” ’   Mississippi State missed a chance to end the game at the end of   regulation when they missed a shot at the buzzer. But it turns   out that was just the beginning of the craziness. ’ ”   With just under a minute to go in overtime, UConn was   looking to tie the game when they turned the ball over. However,   on the pass down low, Katie Lou Samuelson went down hard   when it appeared she took a shot to the face or head by   Mississippi State’s Dominique Dillingham. ” ’ ’ ”   No call was made at the time and the contact was minimal. But   after Mississippi State didn’t score on the next trip down the   court, the officials reviewed the play and ultimately called a   flagrant foul on Mississippi State. ” ’   Head coach Vic Schaefer was livid and needed to be   restrained. ’ ’ ’ ’   UConn made both free throws and tied the game. ’ ’   With just under 27 seconds to go, UConn was in perfect position   to save their season and their streak. Because of the     call, they had the ball again in a tie game.   Seemingly, UConn would either win the game or go to a second   overtime. ’ ”   But the controversies weren’t over yet. ” ’   Instead of running down the clock, Saniya Chong drove to the   basket and lost the ball out of bounds with 12 seconds to go.   Replays showed there was contact and suggested a foul could have   been called on Mississippi State. ’ ’   Instead, no call was made. ’ ’ ’ ’   Instead, Mississippi State had the ball with 12 seconds to go in   a tie game and a shot to upset the   defending champs. ’ ’   That was all they needed as Morgan William pulled up at the   buzzer and sank the   to win it. ’ ’   Game over! Streak over!  ’ ’ ’ ’   Not only was Connecticut the   defending champs, but the   last time they lost a game was November 2014. That all comes   to end here in the Final Four, and it is Mississippi State moving   on to the championship game. ’ ”It’s over. UConn’s   winning streak in. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’