’  ’ ’   The Los Angeles Times skewered President Donald Trump in an   editorial on Sunday, calling him ”untethered from reality” and   ”full of blind  .” ’ ’   The editorial was the first in a series of four the paper will   publish under the title, ”.” ’ ”   On Sunday, the paper slammed Trump for his crackdown on   immigration and    his  aimed at   curbing climate change, his  for the Affordable   Care Act and the bill’s potentially disastrous effects, and his    despite a promise   to reduce the country’s role in international conflicts. ” ’   But those policies, the paper added, were not the most worrisome   aspect of the Trump presidency so far. ’ ’   ”What is most worrisome about Trump is Trump himself,” the   editorial said. ”He is a man so unpredictable, so reckless, so   petulant, so full of blind   so untethered to reality   that it is impossible to know where his presidency will lead or   how much damage he will do to our nation.” ’ ’’ ’   It added: ”His obsession with his own fame, wealth and success,   his determination to vanquish enemies real and imagined, [and]   his craving for adulation,” while effective on the campaign   trail, were ”nothing short of disastrous” in the Oval Office. ’ ’   The editorial noted that while many traditional conservatives   favor   Trump policies like stricter immigration laws   and tighter border security, ”Trump’s cockamamie border wall, his   impracticable campaign promise to deport all 11 million people   living in the country illegally and his blithe disregard for the   effect of such proposals on the US relationship with Mexico turn   a very bad policy into an appalling one.” ’ ’   The paper also ripped into Trump’’s lack of respect for   longstanding pillars of American democracy, like   and . ”His contempt for the rule of   law and the norms of government are palpable,” the editorial   said. ’ ’   The president’’s dismissive attitude toward evidence and facts is   an additional source of worry, the editorial asserts. ”Whether it   is the easily disprovable boasts about the size of his   inauguration crowd or his unsubstantiated assertion that Barack   Obama bugged Trump Tower, the new president regularly muddies the   waters of fact and fiction.” ’ ’   It added that Trump further encourages his supporters to   thumb their noses at   evidence, science,     and the media and to reject those institutions   in favor of ideology and conspiracy theory. This is a ”recipe for   a divided country,” the editorial said. ’ ’   Despite its assertion that ”nothing prepared us for the magnitude   of this trainwreck,” the editorial expressed its hope that Trump   would be reined in by the rule of law, voters, and protesters. It   also urged members of Congress  —   particularly Republicans  —   to   stand up to Trump’’s ”reckless and heartless agenda,” adding that   ”everybody has a role to play in this drama.” ’ ’The Los Angeles Times skewered President Donald. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’