’  ’ ’   North Korea has reportedly launched a ballistic missile into the   sea, off the Korean Peninsula on Tuesday. ’ ’   Launched at 6:42 a. m. local time, the missile was reported to   have traveled around 37 miles, according to South Korean Defense   Ministry officials . ’ ’   Officials also suggested that it may have been an attempt by the   North Koreans to launch a   version of a rocket from a   submarine, given its proximity to a known North Korean submarine   base, . ’ ”   The claims from a US official also seem to support the theory of   a   missile launch. Though officials from US   Pacific Command (PACOM)  —   the US’s regional asset in the area  —     claimed to have detected the   medium range ballistic   missile, they determined it was of little threat to the US. ” ’   ”The North American Aerospace Defense Command determined the   missile launch from North Korea did not pose a threat to North   America,” said Cmdr. Dave Benham, a spokesman for PACOM, to CNN. ’ ’   A spokesperson for Secretary of State Rex Tillerson delivered a   short statement in regards to the incident on Tuesday evening: ’ ”   The launch took place the same day senior White House officials   delivered a stern message on North Korea’s nuclear program ” ’   ”The clock has now run out, and all options are on the table,”   one of the officials said . ’ ’   The warning came from two senior White House officials who spoke   on the condition of anonymity, during the pivotal time when   President Donald Trump is scheduled to meet with Chinese   President Xi Jinping at his estate in Florida later this week. ’ ’   The officials also pointed toward the failure of prior   administration’’s efforts to curb the growing threat of North   Korea’’s nuclear capabilities, and said that North Korea is a   ”matter of urgent interest for the President and the   administration as a whole.” ’ ”   Additionally, the officials said they planned on pursuing a way   to influence China  —   North Korea’s closest ally  —   into   restraining North Korea’s ambitions. ” ’  ’ ’   The comments from the officials  as Jack Keane, a     US Army general who declined a cabinet position from   Trump. ’ ’   ”A   strike against launch facilities, underground   nuclear sites, artillery and rocket response forces and regime   leadership targets may be the only option left on the table,”   Keane said to . ”We are rapidly and   dangerously moving towards a military option.” ’ ’   In an  earlier   this week, Trump also mentioned that the US would act   unilaterally to stop North Korea if China did not. ’ ’   ”China will either decide to help us with North Korea, or they   won’t,” Trump said. ”If China is not going to solve North Korea,   we will.” ’ ”   After Financial Times published its interview with Trump on   Sunday, Gen. John Hyten, the commander of US Strategic Command,   was quick to assure that any option to address North Korea’s   nuclear program would have to involve China. ” ’   ”Any solution to the North Korean problem has to involve China,”   Hyten told the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday,   according CNN’’s report. ”I’’ll provide those military options [to   the president] . .. I look at it from a strategic perspective and   I can’’t see a solution that doesn’’t involve China.” ’ ’North Korea has reportedly launched a ballistic. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’