’  ’ ’   House Republicans appear to be stirring up their plans to   overhaul the US healthcare system once again after   an initial, highly publicized failure last month. ’ ’   The American Health Care Act, the GOP plan to repeal and replace   Obamacare, has been revisited, with Vice President Mike   Pence and White House officials  ’ ’   Pence and the White House are trying to win over the   conservative House Freedom Caucus, which opposed the original   version of the legislation because they felt it did not go far   enough in its repeal of Obamacare. ’ ’   Reports have indicated that the White House has offered to   allow states to repeal two significant elements of the ACA:   ”community ratings” and   essential health benefits. ’ ”   While this has the potential to bring the Freedom Caucus on   board, it also could  for   the House GOP and President Donald Trump’s administration. ” ”   Here’s a quick breakdown of the two important elements that   reports suggest the new deal on the AHCA could allow   states to repeal: ” ’   By repealing the two rules, people who do get sick   could see prices so high for their coverage that it would be   virtually impossible for them to afford insurance. While insurers   could technically not discriminate based on preexisting   conditions, making it incredibly expensive for someone to   purchase care would have similar practical effects,  ’ ’   Additionally, the list of issues that were considered   preexisting conditions before the ACA were incredibly broad,   ranging  ’ ’   In technical terms,   protections would be   left in place. But in practice, these regulations  —   which   are   —   would be gutted. ’ ’   According to reports, the emerging terms of the deal suggest     repeals would need to be approved by the federal   government. ’ ’   The fallout from the proposed tweaks could have political   ramifications for Republicans. ’ ”   While much of the attention has been paid to the Freedom Caucus   in the aftermath the AHCA’s original failure, the number of   moderate Republicans that came out against the bill was close   enough to the threshold for blocking the bill, as well. ” ”   As the House leadership and the White House shifted the bill to   make concessions to the Freedom Caucus, more and more of these   moderates began to come out against the bill, citing its concerns   in going too far in repealing some of Obamacare’s more popular   provisions. ” ’   ”If there is guaranteed access to insurance without community   rating, protections for people with   conditions are   illusory,” said Larry Levitt, a senior vice president at the   nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. ’ ’   The undermining of preexisting conditions coverage via the   community rating, as well as the changes to essential health   benefits, could make the bill politically unpalatable for   enough moderate Republicans to block it. In fact,  are already pushing   back on the possible deal with the Freedom Caucus behind the   scenes. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump has repeatedly said that he wants to keep the     protections. By potentially undermining   these provisions, the new proposed deal could signal a   reversal on one of his   promises on   healthcare. ’ ’   During an interview with ”60 Minutes” following the election,   Trump said that the   aspects of Obamacare   ” ’ ’   Pence also said in a speech before the election that people with   preexisting conditions would not be ”c” which likely would happen in some states under   the new proposals. ’ ”   White House press secretary Sean Spicer reiterated the desire to   keep coverage affordable for those with preexisting   conditions after Trump’s speech to the joint session of   Congress in late February. ” ’   ” ’ ’   The bill does not explicitly repeal the parts of the ACA that   have to do with preexisting conditions, but the likely   effects on prices and coverage for sick people would   seem to violate promises from the president. ’ ’House Republicans appear to be stirring up. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’