’  ’ ”   If the NBA playoffs started today, the Cleveland Cavaliers   wouldn’t own   advantage if they were to make the   Eastern Conference Finals. ” ”   With a lackluster   record in 2017, including a   record   in March, the Cavaliers’ grip on the No. 1 seed has slipped into   the hands of the Boston Celtics. ” ’   On Wednesday, the Cavaliers are set to play in one of their   biggest games of the season when they take on the Celtics in   Boston, with first place potentially on the line. ’ ”   However, heading into that game, they’re going to be in an   awkward position with some conflicts of interest. ” ”   Seeding hasn’t necessarily been the Cavs’ priority this season.    head coach Tyronn   Lue has said team health is more important to him than seeding,   and the Cavs, who closed out every postseason series on the road   en route to the championship last year, don’t have much reason to   worry about the difference between first and second place. ” ’’ ”   Wednesday’s showdown with Boston, as Vardon calls it, is like a     loss. It’s a road game on the second night of a      against a strong home team in the Celtics.   Furthermore, the Cavs also play Friday at home  —   their fourth   game in six nights. Presumably, Wednesday would be a perfect time   to rest the big three of LeBron James, Kyrie Irving, and Kevin   Love, as the Cavs have been willing to do this season. ” ’   That may not be such an easy call, however  —   the game against the   Celtics will be broadcast on ESPN. In March, the Cavs made   headlines when they rested their big three for a nationally   televised Saturday night game against the Los Angeles Clippers.   The NBA was so angry that the commissioner, Adam Silver, called   Cavs general manager David Griffin and scolded him for sitting   his stars for a primetime game, . Silver later issued a   memo to teams suggesting that resting stars had become a problem   that the league needed to address. ’ ”   Surely, if the Cavs were to rest James, Irving, or Love for a   nationally televised game against the Celtics, in a potential     battle, the league would not be happy. Of course, the   Cavs likely don’t have much reason to care about the league’s   wishes  —   they want to be healthy for the upcoming postseason, and   a road game on the second night of a    in what should   be a competitive game could leave their stars more susceptible to   injury. ” ”   Wednesday should be a test of the Cavs’ philosophy of rest over   wins, Vardon notes. It may reveal how much the Cavs care about   first place and whether they’re willing to anger the league in an   effort to preserve their postseason hopes. ” ’If the NBA playoffs started today, the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’