’  ’ ’   SAN FRANCISCO  —   Twitter said in a lawsuit on Thursday that it had   received a demand from US officials for records that could reveal   the people behind a Twitter account opposed to President Donald   Trump. Twitter is challenging the demand in court. ’ ’   The lawsuit over the anonymous account, claimed to be run by   federal immigration employees, was filed in federal court in San   Francisco, where Twitter is based. ’ ”   After Trump’s inauguration in January, anonymous Twitter feeds   voicing concerns about more than a dozen US government agencies   appeared to challenge the president’s views on climate change and   other issues. ” ’   In the lawsuit, Twitter said the account in question,  had been known to   ”express public criticism of the department and the current   administration,” but that Twitter and its users were protected   under the First Amendment. ’ ’   The US government, Twitter says in the complaint, ”may not compel   Twitter to disclose information regarding the real identities of   these users without first demonstrating that some criminal or   civil offense has been committed, that unmasking the users’’   identity is the least restrictive means for investigating that   offense, that the demand for this information is not motivated by   a desire to suppress free speech, and that the interests of   pursuing that investigation outweigh the important First   Amendment rights of Twitter and its users.” ’ ’   Twitter says the ”defendants have not come close to making any of   those showings.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The rights of free speech afforded Twitter’’s users and Twitter   itself under the First Amendment of the US Constitution include a   right to disseminate such anonymous or pseudonymous political   speech,” Twitter said in the lawsuit. ’ ’   The Department of Homeland Security, which is a defendant in the   lawsuit, declined to comment on pending litigation. ’ ”   The American Civil Liberties Union said it was representing the   anonymous Twitter user  —   who has 33, 000 followers  —   and would be   filing on the user’s behalf soon. ” ’   ”The right to anonymously speak out against the government is   clearly protected by the First Amendment,” the ACLU told Business   Insider in a statement. ”We are pleased to see Twitter standing   up for its users’’ rights, and the ACLU will soon be filing   documents in court on behalf of this user. ’ ’   ”To unmask an anonymous speaker online, the government must have   a strong justification. But in this case, the government has   given no reason at all, leading to concerns that it is simply   trying to stifle dissent.” ’ ’   Twitter said it received an administrative summons last month   demanding that it provide records related to the account. The   acronym CIS stands for Citizenship and Immigration Services, and   the account refers to itself in its description as ”immigration   resistance.” ’ ’   A copy of the summons filed with the lawsuit says the records are   needed for an investigation to ensure compliance with duties,   taxes and fines, and other customs and immigration matters. It   was not immediately clear how the anonymous account fit into   those laws and regulations. ’ ’   The social media company has a history of challenging government   demands for information on its users, including a 2012 demand   from New York prosecutors about an Occupy Wall Street protester. ’ ’   Twitter declined to comment. ’ ”   Here’s Twitter’s complaint in full: ” ’ ’ ’ (Additional reporting by Dustin Volz in Washington. Editing   by Chris Reese and Lisa Shumaker.) ’ ’SAN FRANCISCO  —   Twitter said in a lawsuit on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’