’  ’ ’   Donald Trump ran for president   —   and   . ’ ’   He has proposed ideas for military action that are equal parts   reprehensible and impractical, such as that the U. S. should   ”” from countries like Iraq. ’ ’   As his Republican opponents periodically pointed out during the   presidential primary campaign, he is not a person you should   trust with nuclear weapons. ’ ’   He is impulsive, quick to anger, and prone to lash out when he   feels embarrassed or threatened. ’ ”   Unfortunately, he is the    of America’s armed   forces. It is conceivable that a situation could arise where   intensified American military operations are so essential, our   best option will be to entrust Donald Trump with the power   to lead them. ” ’’ ’   Syria does not present such a situation. ’ ’   The gas attack in Syria is an atrocity. Bashar   has been   committing atrocities for years, but  there are reasons that the United States has   not engaged more aggressively in Syria, under Barack Obama or   Trump. ’ ”   Acting against Assad could strengthen ISIS, which is one of his   opponents. We likely couldn’t stop the   war in the   country without an   occupation, which we would have   good reasons to resist, even if it were not the case that Syria   is full of Russian troops on Assad’s side. ” ’   As we saw in Iraq and Libya, our greater intervention could make   a bad situation even worse. Syria presents an added risk   that escalation could lead to armed conflict with Russia.   These would be good enough reasons to be cautious in Syria   under any president.  ’ ’   They are even better reasons for caution under a president who is   both malevolent and incompetent, who demonstrates neither   strategic thinking nor moral clarity, and who has threatened to   use the military in ways that would endanger both servicemembers   and the country as a whole. ’ ’   Trying to make the Syrian situation better through military   action would be really hard. Do you think Donald Trump is up   to the task? ’ ’   On Thursday, Republican Senators have been pointedly urging   Trump to seek congressional authority before any military   escalation: Mike Lee, Rand Paul, John McCain, Bob Corker. ’ ’   Congress should insist that he seek such authorization  —   and   should deny it. ’ ’Donald Trump ran for president promising to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’