’  ’ ”   As White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon  tensions between him and senior adviser Jared   Kushner, President Donald Trump’s    burst into the   open. ” ’   Several reports in recent days have detailed the brewing   conflict.  Thursday that Bannon   had called Kushner a ”cuck” behind his back. ’ ’   Bannon also told his associates, ”I love a gunfight,” according   to  which said that ”the hatred between the two   wings” in the White House was ”intense and irreconcilable.” ’ ”   The stories of  in the White House started rolling   out in earnest this week after the White House announced Trump   was  and that Bannon would no longer be on   it. In January, Trump  that removed some of the   nation’s top military and intelligence advisers as regular   attendees of the NSC’s principals committee and elevated Bannon. ” ’   Bannon quickly went into   mode, with his allies   selling the NSC demotion as a ”natural evolution” rather than a   sign of his waning influence, . ’ ’’ ’   The Times also reported that despite his efforts to play it cool   with the media, Bannon resisted his removal from the NSC and at   one point threatened to quit over it. Axios reported, however,   that Bannon had been telling associates that such stories were   ”100% nonsense.” ’ ’   In any case, tensions clearly are running high. ’ ’   The civil war might not have started with the decision to remove   Bannon from the NSC  —    that it started with the failed   effort by Republicans to pass a   bill  —   but now   that the narrative about Bannon has shifted to one of him losing   power, the infighting has become more public. ’ ’   The Daily Beast reported that fighting had been nonstop between   Bannon and Kushner for weeks and that the two often clashed     . One official told the news outlet that Bannon said   Kushner was trying to ”shiv him and push him out the door.” They   said Bannon recently vented about Kushner ”being a ’’globalist’’   and a ’’cuck. ’’” ’ ’   ”He actually said ’’cuck,’’ as in ’’cuckservative,’’” they said. ’ ’   A senior official told The Daily Beast the friction between the   Bannon and Kushner camps boiled down to policy. They said there   was tension ”on trade, health care, immigration, taxes,   [terrorism]  —   you name it.” ’ ’   Bannon is frequently described as a populist and a nationalist,   and Trump embraced some of these sentiments on the campaign trail   as he appealed to voters with an ”America First” message.   Kushner, the husband of Trump’’s daughter Ivanka, is seen as a   more moderating force on Trump. ’ ’ that Bannon’’s removal from the NSC signaled a   power shift in the White House and Trump moving away ”from the   more   ideological bent of Bannon.” And sources  that Bannon felt as though Kushner and his   allies were trying to undermine his populist approach. ’ ’   A person familiar with Bannon’’s thinking told Politico that the   ”big fight is between nationalists and the West Wing Democrats.” ’ ”   It seems that, for now, the latter wing is coming out on top. As   Bannon is marginalized, Kushner’s star is rising. ” ’   Kushner recently  and has found allies in   Gary Cohn, the National Economic Council director, and Dina   Powell, the deputy national security adviser for strategy, who   have become more influential. ’ ’   Bannon can count Attorney General Jeff Sessions, policy adviser   Stephen Miller, and presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway among   his allies, according to Axios. But Trump has been known to keep   his family close, and that would include Kushner. ’ ’   Trump might also have political reasons to reign in Bannon. Media   outlets have reported that Trump has been annoyed with the credit   Bannon has received for the Trump administration’’s agenda,   illustrated by a ”Saturday Night Live” skit portraying Bannon as   a puppet master. ’ ’   The fighting between Bannon and Kushner has had a     effect, . ’ ’   ”As we get further away from Inauguration Day, it is very obvious   that no one cares what happens to the people who worked for the   campaign or who have loyalty to the president,” one former Trump   campaign aide told Politico. ”The swamp is winning the battle.   And longtime campaign staffers are proving to be the first   casualties.” ’ ’As White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’