’  ’ ’   In one of her most candid speaking appearances since losing the   2016 presidential election, Hillary Clinton harshly criticized   Russia for interfering with the race, and said misogyny was a   factor that contributed to her loss. ’ ’   ”I am deeply concerned about what went on with Russia,” Clinton   said at the Women in the World summit in New York City on   Thursday. ”A foreign party meddled with our election. and did so   in a way that we’re learning more about every single day.” ’ ’   Clinton, during an interview with New York Times columnist   Nicholas Kristof, was particularly critical of Russian President   Vladimir Putin, who she described as ”someone who plays the long   game” and ”plays   chess.” ’ ’   ”What was done to us was an act of aggression, and it was carried   out by a foreign power under the control of someone who has a   deep desire to dominate Europe and to send us into a tailspin,”   Clinton said. ’ ”   Like many of her fellow Democrats, Clinton called on Congress to   establish an independent investigation into the Russian   interference. Earlier on Thursday, House Intelligence Committee   chairman Devin Nunes, a Republican,  from the committee’s investigation after he   came under fire for possible ethics violations, and some   lawmakers have called into question Congress’ ability to conduct   a nonpartisan inquiry. ” ’   Clinton has made few public appearances since the election, but   has reemerged on the political scene in the past few weeks. ’ ’   On Thursday, she opened up about her stunning loss to President   Donald Trump, saying misogyny ”played a role” in her defeat. ’ ’   ”It is fair to say   …     that certainly misogyny played a role. That   just has to be admitted,” Clinton said. ’ ’   She continued: ”In this election, there was a very real struggle   between what is viewed as change that is welcomed and exciting to   so many Americans, and change that is worrisome and threatening   to so many others. And you layer on the first woman president   over that, and I think some people, women included, had real   problems.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Clinton also revived her criticism of FBI Director James Comey,   who alerted Congress 11 days before the election that he was   reopening the investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email   server. Eight days later, Comey  he still would not recommend charges against Clinton,   however his initial note to Congress is widely seen as having   dissuaded some voters from choosing Clinton. ” ’   ”The Comey letter coming as it did   …     really raised serious   questions in a lot of people that were obviously unfounded, but   nevertheless happened,” she said. ’ ”   Clinton also weighed in on Republican efforts to overhaul   American healthcare, which  in March after GOP leadership couldn’t   muster the votes to pass the Affordable Health Care Act, a   replacement for President Barack Obama’s Affordable Care Act. ” ’   ”I will admit that was somewhat gratifying,” she said, eliciting   applause from the audience. ’ ”   Despite waging war on Obama’s healthcare act, better known as   Obamacare, few Republican lawmakers were actually familiar with   what it entailed, Clinton said. ” ’   ”I don’t know that any of them had read the bill, read the law,   understood how it worked. It was so obvious,” Clinton said. ”And   health care is complicated right?” she added, referencing a tweet   from Trump. ’ ’   Clinton soon waded back into foreign policy, demanding payback   for the  that claimed at least 70 lives in Syria on   Tuesday. While Trump has remained vague on his stance toward   Syrian leader Bashar   Clinton called for a swift   response to the attack. ’ ’   ”It is important we take a strong stance against chemical   weapons,” Clinton said. ’ ’   ”People have to know that they will be held accountable as war   criminals, as committing crimes against humanity, if they engage   in these kinds of aggressive, violent acts.” ’ ’   When asked whether she would run for office again, Clinton said   she ”likely” will not, focusing instead on helping Democrats   regain a majority in Congress. ’ ’In one of her most candid speaking appearances. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’