’  ’ ’   Tulsi Gabbard, a Democratic representative from Hawaii, cast   doubt on who should be held responsible for a chemical weapons   attack that killed more than 80 civilians in Syria this week. ’ ’   ”Yes, I’’m skeptical,” Gabbard told CNN’’s Wolf Blitzer on Friday   when asked whether she believed Syrian President Bashar     authorized the use of chemical weapons. ’ ’   ”Standing around and pointing fingers does not accomplish peace   for the Syrian people,” Gabbard said, asserting the need for   concrete evidence before assigning blame. ’ ’ that the chemical   attack earlier this week involved sarin gas, and Secretary of   State Rex Tillerson said there could be ”” that Assad’’s forces carried out the   attack. ’ ’   Both Syrian and Russian forces have denied responsibility, with   Russian forces claiming a conventional airstrike hit a cache of   chemical weapons owned by rebels in Syria. International experts   have dismissed this as an ”.” ’ ’   Gabbard said in a statement Thursday night Trump ”acted   recklessly” in authorizing the missile strike. ”It angers and   saddens me that President Trump has taken the advice of war hawks   and escalated our illegal regime change war to overthrow the   Syrian government.” ’ ”   The congresswoman made similar remarks  to Syria and Lebanon   days after Trump’s inauguration. ” ”   During her January trip to Syria, . Following Monday’s   chemical weapons attack in Syria, Gabbard tweeted, then deleted a   statement saying that ISIS or   could have committed the   strike. ” ’   Gabbard on Thursday night called the strike ”” and   said it would lead to ”more dead civilians, more refugees . .. and   a possible nuclear war between the United States and Russia.” ’ ’ ’ ’Rep. Gabbard says Syria strikes were ”reckless” and ”flew directly in the face” of the action the UN was working on ’ ’Rep. Gabbard: “Yes, I’m skeptical” of claim Assad regime is behind chemical weapons attack  ’ ’Tulsi Gabbard, a Democratic representative from. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’