’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump is considering major changes in his     staff, including replacing White House Chief of Staff   Reince Priebus, according to  from Axios. ’ ’   Leading the list of possible replacements is House Majority   Leader Kevin McCarthy, a Republican from California, who was one   of the first congressional leaders to support Trump and has   established himself as one of the . ’ ”   Other candidates include the businessman and former lobbyist   Wayne Berman, the political consultant David Urban, and Trump’s   economic adviser and former Goldman Sachs President  according to staffers who spoke with Axios. ” ”   Priebus has  since the botched rollout in   January of the president’s  banning travel to the US from seven     nations, and he fell further out of Trump’s favor   after House Republicans’ failure in March to pass legislation to   reform the US healthcare system. ” ’   But Priebus  that he was ”not in any trouble” with   Trump and that he had ”a great relationship with the president.” ’ ’’ ”   Other reports of  among Trump’s top advisers have been published   this week, highlighted by one on Wednesday that said Steve   Bannon, Trump’s chief strategist,  from the National Security Council. ” ’ that despite his efforts to play   it cool with the media, Bannon resisted his removal from the NSC   and at one point threatened to quit over it. Axios reported,   however, that Bannon had been telling associates that such   stories were ”100% nonsense.” ’ ’   The Wall Street Journal  on Friday that Trump is considering replacing   Priebus and Bannon and is ”trying out different names with his   friends,” according to someone ”close to the White House.” The   Journal reported that Cohn is among those being considered to   replace Priebus. ’ ’   White House spokesperson Lindsay Walters in a statement on Friday   that the reports of staff turnover are ”completely false” and   ”driven by people who want to distract from the success taking   place in this administration.” ’ ”   Other reports this week indicate that relations have soured   between the two camps in the White House  —   one led by Jared   Kushner, Trump’s    and senior adviser, and the other by   Bannon, who has developed an alliance with Priebus. ” ’   A senior official  that the friction between the Bannon and   Kushner camps boiled down to a broad range of policy concerning   ”trade, health care, immigration, taxes, [terrorism]  —   you name   it.” ’ ”   While Bannon favors Trump’s controversial travel ban and the   rolling back of environmental regulations and protections for   transgender students, Kushner is attempting to exert a moderating   force on the president. ” ’   On foreign policy, Bannon, described as a nationalist, advocates   a   approach, while Kushner is inclined toward   interventionism in the Middle East. ’ ’ Thursday that Bannon   had called Kushner a ”cuck” behind his back. He has said Kushner    according to The Times. ’ ’   Bannon also told his associates, ”I love a gunfight,” according   to  which said that ”the hatred between the   two wings” in the White House was ”intense and irreconcilable.” ’ ’   A top aide  that ”the tension, the exhaustion, the raw nerves   have gotten much harder to disguise,” adding that it was not a   question of whether top staffers would be replaced, but when. ’ ’ Pamela Engel contributed to this report. ’ ’President Donald Trump is considering major. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’