’  ’ ’   A conspiracy alleging a chemical weapons attack carried out in   northwestern Syria last week was a ”false flag” operation   orchestrated by ”terrorists” opposed to Syrian   President Bashar   quickly made its way from a     propaganda outlet to leading members of the     media in the US. ’ ’   The trail leading directly from   News to     entities like the   site   InfoWars  ’ ’    ’ ’   The Syrian government has denied dropping chemical weapons on   civilians in Idlib province early last week. Russia, an Assad   ally,  a Syrian airstrike targeting   terrorists in the area accidentally hit a warehouse controlled by   rebel forces that had been stockpiling nerve agents,   which dispersed and killed dozens of civilians when it was   bombed. ’ ’   But US defense officials monitoring Syrian warplanes on military   radar say they saw the planes take off and drop the chemical   weapons, NBC News reported. And the P ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’American officials ”repeatedly returned to the   Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons with   intelligence reports on remaining chemical stocks,” The New   York Times ) ’ ’   As many analysts have suggested over the past week, however,   for the Assad regime to drop chemical weapons on the town   of  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’The Grim   Logic Behind Syria’s Chemical Weapons Attack.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The   piece was quickly   ”reproduced   ” according to  ’ ’   It was also quoted extensively in an article titled, ”published by the     site . ’ ’   On April 5, . It   ran an article claiming the gas attack was a     operation funded by the liberal business magnate George Soros and   carried out by the White Helmets  —   a civil defense organization   comprised of volunteer first responders that detractors have   attempted to brand as a tool of Al   rebel forces. ’ ’   The InfoWars article, DFR Lab wrote, ”made the same claims, and   used the same sources, as the   story,” merely ”reversing   their order.” ’ ”   Once the theory  of one of the country’s   most notorious conspiracy theorists  —   InfoWars founder Alex Jones    —   it got help from one of  fans: Mike Cernovich, the  commentator   whose . ” ’   ”   ’ ’  ’ ’     Much of the hashtag’’s ”initial viral appeal appears to     have come from suspiciously hyperactive accounts that tweeted     it dozens or hundreds of times in the space of a few hours,”     DFR Lab wrote.   ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   But ultimately, and perhaps ironically, Trump  —   a consumer and   promoter of conspiracy theories  Jones in the past    —   and his administration blamed the Assad regime for the   attack, and ordered a response. ’ ’   On Thursday night, Trump ordered the US Navy to launch 59   Tomahawk cruise missiles at a   airfield   where the planes used to drop the chemicals are believed to have   taken off. He then delivered a public statement placing the blame   squarely on Assad. ’ ’   Bashar    ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDid McCain give ”moderate rebels” (ISIS) in Syria poison gas and Hollywood style film equipment? ’t’t’ ’     ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tLIVE: Evidence Mounts That Syrian Gas Attack Is False Flag     ’ ’   Paul Joseph Watson, a blogger for InfoWars who tweeted last   week that Assad had would have had ”no motive” for a gas attack,   was so upset with Trump’’s decision that he took himself ”OFF the   Trump train.” ’ ’  ’ ’   He later  that he was only ”off the Trump   train in terms of Syria.” ’ ’A conspiracy alleging a chemical weapons attack. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’