’  ’ ”   At the start of Sunday’s final round of the Masters, there were   several big names still in contention. But by the end of the day,   it was the two leaders at the start of the day  —   Justin Rose   and Sergio Garcia  —   who found themselves in an epic duel for   the green jacket. ” ’   In the end, Garcia would win his first major on the first playoff   hole following an epic stretch of holes at the end of regulation. ’ ’   After the two hit the turn at the end of the   tied at     Garcia bogeyed both the 10th and the 11th to fall two   back and seemingly lose yet another major.  ’ ’   But then Garcia birdied the 14th to get one back, which led to   the fireworks on No. 15. ’ ’   Sergio nearly holed his shot from the fairway on the   15th. ’ ’ ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The ball actually hit the pin on the bounce, leading to an eagle   for Garcia. ’ ’ ’ ’   Rose birdied the hole and the two golfers were tied at     with three holes to go. ’ ’   Both golfers hit good   on the   No. 16. This led to   an awesome moment of sportsmanship between the two   competitors.  ’ ’ ’ ’   Rose would birdie the hole, while Garcia missed his birdie putt. ’ ’   Suddenly, Rose was back to a   lead with two holes to   go. ’ ’   But then he faced a   putt for par on the 17th. If he makes   it here, he will have a shot to close it out on 18. If he misses,   the entire tournament is up in the air. ’ ’   He missed. ’ ’ ’ ’   Then came the 18th hole.  ’ ’   First up was Rose, who got the bounce of a lifetime, hitting the     and having the ball kick straight left towards the   hole. ’ ’ ’ ’   That path! ’ ’  ’ ’   Suddenly it looked like Rose was going to take it. ’ ’   But Garcia answered with ”the shot of a lifetime.” ’ ’ ’ ’   Incredibly, both Rose and Garcia missed their putts. If either   putt goes in, it wins the Masters. ’ ’  ’ ’   Off to the playoff we went. ’ ’   The pair started the playoff on the 18th hole. Rose went into the   rough and eventually bogeyed. That left Garcia needing to     to win. He would only need one. ’ ’   SERGIO WINS! ’ ’ ’ ’   Garcia is just the third Spaniard to win the Masters, joining   Jose Maria Olazabal and his mentor Seve Ballesteros, who would   have turned 60 on Sunday. ’ ’   What a moment. ’ ’ ’ ’   Finally, Danny Willett welcomes Sergio to the club. ’ ’  ’ ”At the start of Sunday’s final round of the. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’