’  ’ ”   The US has concluded that Russia knew in advance about the   chemical attack in Syria last week that killed dozens of   civilians and is believed to have been carried out by Syrian   President Bashar Assad’s forces, a senior US official . ” ’   Both Moscow and Damascus have denied that Assad’’s forces dropped   the chemicals, claiming that the gas was released accidentally   when a Syrian airstrike hit a ”terrorist warehouse” containing   ”toxic substances.” ’ ”   Experts quickly cast doubt on Russia’s explanation for Syria’s   worst chemical attack since 2013, when Assad, an ally of Russian   President Vladimir Putin, is believed to have used sarin gas to   kill as many as 1, 400 people in the outskirts of Damascus,   Syria’s capital. Assad still denies responsibility for that   attack. ” ’   The US determined shortly after the attack last week that Syrian   warplanes had dropped the chemicals, which caused injuries and   deaths that the  were   ”consistent with exposure to organophosphorus chemicals, a   category of chemicals that includes nerve agents.” ’ ’   The Pentagon had been looking into whether Russia was complicit   in the attack. A Russian drone  above a hospital   treating victims and then turned off just before the hospital was   bombed. US officials believe the hospital was targeted in an   attempt to hide evidence of the chemical attack. ’ ’’ ’   Those officials have now concluded that the drone that was   hovering above the hospital was operated by Russia, and the   warplane that attacked the hospital was  . But they   have not determined whether the plane was operated by a   Russian or Syrian pilot. ’ ’   ”The official said the presence of the drone couldn’’t have been a   coincidence, and that Russia must have known the chemical weapons   attack was coming and that victims were seeking treatment,” the   AP reported. ’ ”   The US retaliated against Syria for the gas attack on Thursday   night, launching 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles at the airfield   where Assad’s warplanes are believed to have taken off, loaded   with the chemicals. ” ’   US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said on Thursday that Russia,   which helped broker the deal in 2013 to destroy Assad’’s     stockpile, had been ”complicit” or ”simply   incompetent in its ability to deliver on its end of that   agreement.” ’ ’   It is unclear how the US will respond now that officials have   concluded that Russia knew of the attack in advance. Defense   Secretary Jim Mattis  that the Assad regime would be   ” ” to use chemical weapons in the future,   foreshadowing a potentially greater US response than last week’’s   strike. ’ ’The US has concluded that Russia knew in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’