’  ’ ”   Sen. Marco Rubio said on Sunday that he was concerned about   Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s opposition to removing Syrian   President Bashar   from power, a direct contradiction   to US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley’s seeming support for a   regime change. ” ’   In an interview on ”This Week,” Rubio said he did not intend to   ”pick a fight with anyone here,” but that Tillerson’’s strategy   was ”based on assumptions that aren’’t going to work.” ’ ’   ”There seems to be a difference between what Ambassador Haley is   saying, as she said last night, that Assad really has no future,   and what I heard this morning from Secretary Tillerson,” Rubio   said. ’ ’   He added: ”There is no such thing as ’’Assad yes, but ISIS, no. ’’   This theory that you can defeat ISIS as long as Assad is there is   not true. They’’re two sides of the same coin.” ’ ’   The Florida senator,  argued that there   cannot be peace in Syria ”as long as Bashar Assad is in power.” ’ ’   ”The quicker they realize that, the better our strategy is going   to be,” he said. ’ ’   Late last month, both Haley and Tillerson said separately that   the US was not committed to removing Assad. ’ ’   But after the Syrian president  during a fight with rebels on   Tuesday, Haley  against Assad. ’ ’   ”Getting Assad out is not the only priority,” Haley told CNN on   Sunday. ”And so what we’’re trying to do is obviously defeat ISIS.   Secondly, we don’’t see a peaceful Syria with Assad in there.” ’ ’   ”Regime change is something that we think is going to happen   because all of the parties are going to see that Assad is not the   leader that needs to be taking place for Syria,” she said. ”So   what I think you’’re seeing is, this isn’’t about policy or not,   this is about thoughts. And so when you look at the thoughts,   there is no political solution that any of us can see with Assad   at the lead.” ’ ”   Tillerson appeared to echo President Donald Trump’s previous   opposition to pursuing regime change, telling ABC that there was   no change in US policy from last month. ” ’   ”We’’ve seen what that looks like when you undertake a violent   regime change in Libya and the situation in Libya continues to be   very chaotic and I would argue that the life of the Libyan people   is not all that well off today,” Tillerson said. ”So I think we   have to learn the lessons of the past and learn the lessons of   what went wrong in Libya when you choose that pathway of regime   change. . .. Any time you go in and have a violent change at the   top, it is very difficult to create the conditions for stability   longer term.” ’ ”   Despite  reported offers to serve as Trump’s   secretary of state, Haley has emerged as the administration’s top   spokesperson on foreign policy issues. ” ”   While Tillerson and his state department shunned the press, Haley   has sat down with the major television programs, and delivered   speeches to the UN that cable news stations carried live. She has   also reassured key allies, and been more outspoken in criticizing   Russia than her Washington counterpart, who has a longstanding   relationship with Russia’s President Vladimir Putin. ” ’   Politico reported  that Haley may be poised to inherit the job from   Tillerson later in the administration. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t.: US strategy in Syria ”based on assumptions that aren’’t going to work. There is no such thing as ’’Assad yes, but ISIS no. ’’”  ’ ’Sen. Marco Rubio said on Sunday that he was. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’