’  ’ ’   Facing impeachment,   Alabama Governor Robert   Bentley has resigned. ’ ’   On Monday morning, state lawmakers began hearings to decide   whether to impeach Bentley for allegedly using state resources   and campaign funds to conceal an affair with a top member of his   staff. ’ ’   By Monday evening, with  for Bentley to resign, the two sides    that Bentley would  to   two ”failure to disclose” misdemeanors, repay the misused funds,   and never hold public office again. ’ ’   ”I have decided that it is time for me to step down as Alabama’’s   governor,” Bentley said at a press conference Monday evening.   ” ’ ’ also reported Monday evening that the governor   was booked into Montgomery County Jail for the misdemeanors,   though the booking later seemed to : ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tGov. Robert Bentley has been charged with two ”failure to disclose” misdemeanors.   ’ ”   On Friday, Jack Sharman, special counsel to the state’s House   Judiciary Committee,  alleging that Bentley intimidated members of   his office into keeping quiet about an affair with his adviser   Rebekah Caldwell Mason. ” ’   ”Governor Bentley directed law enforcement to advance his   personal interests and, in a process characterized by increasing   obsession and paranoia, subjected career law enforcement officers   to tasks intended to protect his reputation,” . ’ ’   On Monday, district attorney Daryl Bailey had  the criminal investigation to Alabama’’s acting   attorney general. The report authors also specified that they   considered Bentley’’s attempts to obstruct the investigation by   withholding messages as an ”independent ground for impeachment.” ’ ’   ”Impeachment is a remedy, not a punishment,” the report added. ’ ’   Before the report was released, Bentley stood on the steps of the   state Capitol on Friday and  he did ”not plan to resign.” ’ ’   The investigation began after Spencer Collier, the recently fired   head of the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency,  he was looking into text messages ”of a sexual   nature” between Bentley and Mason in March 2016. ’ ”   The governor’s  Dianne Bentley, provided the messages to the House   Judiciary Committee. She discovered them on a   iPad   her husband gave her that synced his accounts. ” ’   ”I sure miss you. I need you. I want you. You are the only one,”   Bentley  in one text to Mason. ’ ”   In the report, witnesses also accused Bentley of getting a law   enforcement officer to retrieve a recording of his phone   conversation with Mason, threatening his wife’s chief of staff,   and taking Mason on state aircraft although she wasn’t an   employee at the time. ” ’   Lt. Gov.  ’ ’Facing impeachment,   Alabama. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’