ERBIL, Iraq  —   Facing Islamic State artillery, snipers and suicide attacks, Iraq’s elite counterterrorism forces breached Mosul’s city limits on Tuesday, officers said, the first time government forces have entered the city in more than two years. The advance from the east was a breakthrough in efforts over a span of more than two weeks to reclaim Mosul from the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. But a great deal of fighting remains: Even as the counterterrorism forces try to push toward the center of the city, Iraq’s second largest, Iraqi Army soldiers are approaching from the south. The counterterrorism units, which have American training and equipment and work closely with United States military advisers, moved into the Gogjali neighborhood on Tuesday. The area was the first they reached within the city limits after going village by village for the past two weeks. Two officers reached by cellphone said that the fighting had been fierce, but that they were confident the neighborhood, known for its cattle farming, would be secured soon. “We are facing tough resistance,” one special forces officer, Capt. Raad Hussein, said as gunfire crackled in the background. “But we will get it. ” Later, officers said that the area had been mostly secured, and that they had captured a state television building from the Islamic State, which had looted the equipment but had not used the facility for broadcasting. “Now is the beginning of the true liberation of the city of Mosul,” Staff Gen. Taleb Shighati   the top counterterrorism force commander, said on state television. The advance into the eastern edge of Mosul heralded a new and more complicated phase  —   and most likely a more dangerous one for civilians  —   in a campaign that American military officials say could last months. In the days ahead, one pivotal point will be whether the Islamic State defends the east of the city or retreats across the Tigris River to the west side, which is more densely populated and where some worry that the terrorist group could bog down security forces in the Old City’s narrow streets. The eastern bank of the Tigris, historically home for many of the old, elite families of Mosul who fled the city after it was taken over by the Islamic State, has been seen as an easier task for the security forces. Trying to discern the Islamic State’s plans for defending the city, Staff Gen. Wathiq   the commander of the Mosul police force, said that in recent days he had sent an informant, who was pretending to be a fisherman, to check under bridges for explosives. He said that the two bridges the informant was able to check  —   the city has five  —   were not rigged to blow up. As the fight moves into the city, it will become simpler in one respect: Under the battle plan, only the Iraqi Army and the special forces are to enter the city proper. Other forces that have participated in the approach  —   the Kurdish pesh merga fighting to the north, and Shiite militias in the west  —   are being kept away because their presence would probably alienate Mosul’s Sunnis. The fight for Mosul has played out against the backdrop of political uncertainty, with great unease about the potential for the battle to unleash waves of sectarian violence and revenge attacks. And as the fighting grinds on, there is a persistent fear of a major humanitarian crisis in the coming days and weeks, as the fighting moves toward more densely populated areas. Aid officials, noting that as many as a million people could remain in Mosul, have been preparing for a new wave of civilians fleeing the area. More than three million people in the country have already been driven from their homes because of violence. Some families were already streaming out of Gogjali on Tuesday, according to a witness and images on local television, but it was not immediately clear how many. The Iraqi government, dropping fliers over the city and broadcasting radio announcements, has been urging civilians to stay in their homes to avert a larger humanitarian crisis. But if civilians do that, it presents new challenges to the security forces, as the soldiers fighting in eastern Mosul found out Tuesday. Brig. Gen. Abdulwahab   a commander in the counterterrorism forces, said he was surprised that so many families had remained in the area, which made it difficult for his men to clear the houses and check for hidden militants. Still, he said it turned out well, because many civilians, waving white flags, cooperated with his soldiers and provided information about where Islamic State fighters were hiding. In a speech on Monday, Prime Minister Haider   reiterated his call for civilians in Mosul to stay indoors for now, but to rise up and help the security forces once they have approached. “Now we are very close to the city of Mosul,” Mr. Abadi said. “And we call on the people to stay at home, to kick out Islamic State, and not to allow them to destroy the infrastructure or to   the streets. ” He added that civilians should not fear the forces. “They have come to liberate you,” he said. Since the Mosul campaign began, about 18, 000 people have been displaced, according to the International Organization for Migration, which on Tuesday described that figure as a low estimate. That could change in the coming days, as many of the villages secured outside Mosul over the last two weeks were mostly uninhabited. At the same time, the Islamic State has herded thousands of civilians to Mosul to be used as human shields. That tactic, in addition to terrorizing the population, aims to make it harder for the United   coalition to carry out airstrikes without harming civilians. The Guardian newspaper on Tuesday, citing Kurdish fighters and local residents, reported that eight people were killed by an American airstrike last week in a village near Mosul. A spokesman for the coalition was not immediately available for comment, but in a statement provided to The Guardian, the coalition said that it had conducted strikes in the area of the village, and that it was investigating the matter. The Islamic State was able to seize Mosul and other territories in Iraq in 2014 by exploiting the grievances of the Sunni community toward the   government, and by offering protection. Many Sunnis welcomed the group, but now most of the civilians who have fled lands the militants control say they came to detest the group’s brutality. “We thought they represented Islam,” said Umm Ahmed, a woman who recently arrived at a camp for the displaced east of Mosul. “We thought they were good people. They were liars. ” She said she had lost her   baby as she fled the fighting in her village last week. With her other children around her in the tent, she offered one example of the horrors of living under the Islamic State: Her    son, sitting at her side, has mostly been out of school for more than two years. In the first days after the militants took her village, she said, he and other schoolchildren were forced to watch videos of beheadings in a classroom. “He had nightmares and was unable to sleep,” she said. “Still, I am shaking when I think about Daesh,” she added, using the Arabic acronym for the Islamic State.