’  ’ ’   The US attack on an airfield believed to have been used by Syrian   President Bashar Assad’’s military to launch a deadly     attack early last week has given Russia a   renewed purpose for staying mired in a war that remains popular   at home while allowing Moscow to paint itself as a foil to US   ”aggression.” ’ ”   It has also allowed US President Donald Trump to deflect   criticism that he is overly beholden to Russia and insensitive to   Assad’s brutal,   campaign against Syrian civilians   and rebel groups. ” ’   Both Russia’’s president, Vladimir Putin, and prime minister,   Dmitry Medvedev, have doubled down on their support for Assad  —     condemning US ”aggression” against what they view as Assad’’s   ”legitimate” government  —   since the US targeted Shayrat airfield   with 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles last week. ’ ’   Dmitry Peskov, Putin’’s spokesman, told reporters last week that   it was ”indisputable” that the US strike on Syria ”was carried   out for the benefit of ISIS and other terrorist organizations.”   Medvedev said on Facebook that Trump ”proved” he would ”fiercely   fight the legitimate Syrian government” instead of against ”the   biggest enemy, ISIS.” ’ ’   The strike has provided fodder for Moscow, which has been given a   clean slate to continue to paint the Syrian conflict as a binary   and   fight between a legitimate government,   supported by Russia, and ”terrorists,” supported by the US. ’ ’   (Moscow and Damascus have long used the word ”terrorists” to   describe a range of actors opposed to Assad, from moderate rebel   groups fighting for regime change to terrorist groups like Al   Qaeda and ISIS, whose goal is to establish a     caliphate.) ’ ”   That narrative, which had been fueled by the Obama   administration’s limited but overt support for various rebel   groups opposed to Assad, has allowed Putin to garner popular   domestic support for the war effort. Less than 20% of Russians   think the war doesn’t make sense, according to The New York   Times. And it has provided a distraction from the country’s   protracted economic stagnation. ” ’  ’ ’   As    Russia’’s intervention in Syria ”at little cost” had ”demonstrated   Russia’’s might, turned the course of the war, and made sure that   Russia is once again treated as a world power on a par with the   United States.” Russia’’s help in  from the   opposition added to Russians’’ perception of the intervention as   one worth their time and money. ’ ”   Whereas the US was meddling in the affairs of a sovereign state   to bolster extremists, the messaging went, Russia was fighting   terrorists with Assad’s blessing. ” ’   As The Guardian’’s Martin Chulov  there is still ”no mood in   Moscow to concede any ground on  to   the US  —   and a calculation that Rex Tillerson,” the US secretary   of state, ”won’’t be pushing too hard anyway.” ’ ’   Putin and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani  —   also a staunch Assad   ally  —   agreed on ”the inadmissibility of aggressive US actions   against a sovereign state in violation of international law” in a   call Sunday. ’ ’   The joint command operation center of Syrian allies, a group that   includes Russia and Iran, characterized the US as an ”occupying   force” in a separate statement later that day. ’ ’   ”Rest assured that we will liberate Syria from all kinds of   occupying forces, it does not matter from where they came to the   occupied part of Syria,” the group . ”Russia and Iran will   not allow the United States to be the only superpower in world.” ’ ”   The use of the US as a Russian (and Iranian) foil hung in the   balance as Trump campaigned on increased cooperation with both   Assad and Russia against ISIS. The reality of Trump’s presidency,   moreover,  a known, and convenient,   Kremlin adversary in Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. ” ’   But in launching a military response that would have been   unthinkable under Obama, Trump has both renewed and emboldened   Putin’’s sense of purpose in defending Assad and painting the US   as the aggressor. It has also allowed Russia to revert to its     and most   talking point: The US is   an imperialistic actor with an impulsive leader whose loyalty   lies not to his people but with ”the establishment.” ’ ’   ”This military action is a clear indication of the US president’’s   extreme dependency on the opinion of the Washington   establishment, the one that the new president strongly criticized   in his inauguration speech,” Medvedev wrote on Facebook. ’ ’   ”Soon after his victory, I noted that everything would depend on   how soon Trump’’s election promises would be broken by the   existing power machine. It took only two and a half months,” he   added. ’ ”   The attack was ordered as investigations by the FBI and the House   and Senate intelligence committees into Trump’s ties to Russia   were reaching a boiling point in the media. Those who had been   frustrated by the continuing investigations felt vindicated by   the strike, which they saw as evidence that Trump was not   beholden to Putin or Moscow. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tIs this theory still doing well?  ’ ’   Trump, meanwhile, was heaped with  for standing up to Assad.   Syrians, too, rejoiced that Assad was finally being held   accountable for six years of barrel bombings and gas attacks   against his own people. ’ ”   While the strike has put Assad and Putin on notice, however,   analysts say expectations that the US will wage a     challenge to Russia’s influence in Syria is premature. ” ’   Trump ”has taken an important first step in repairing the damage,   but this will not be the end of the story,” Robert Kagan, a   senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and former State   Department official, . ’ ’   ”America’’s adversaries are not going to be convinced by one   missile strike that the United States is back in the business of   projecting power to defend its interests and the world order,”   Kagan added. ”The Russians, by suspending an agreement with the   United States to coordinate air operations over Syria, are   already implicitly threatening to escalate in Syria.” ’ ’   Vladimir Frolov, a   analyst, told The New York   Times last week that while ”there will be many screams on the   Russian television with people condemning the strikes . ..   everybody understands that this is just a symbolic act meant for   Trump to look different from Obama.” ’ ’   ”There won’’t be any tangible reaction,” he added. ”This was a     strike.” ’ ’The US attack on an airfield believed to have. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’