’  ’ ”   When a former Alabama governor started sending suggestive texts   to a member of his staff, he probably didn’t expect them to sync   onto the   iPad he had given his wife. ” ”   On Monday, Robert Bentley, 74,  from his role as Alabama’s governor after an    he used state resources to conceal an affair   with his adviser, Rebekah Caldwell Mason. ” ”   But the scandal truly began in 2013, when Bentley’s wife Dianne   became suspicious of the budding relationship. ” ’   In March 2014, Dianne Bentley placed a recorder inside her purse   and discovered that her husband  and declared his love for her  —   a minute after   his wife left the room. ’ ”   Bentley’s efforts to dispose of the recordings led to many of the   misuse of funds accusations he would later plead guilty to. ” ’   On the night of his   in the 2014 gubernatorial race,   Bentley was allegedly convinced that his opponent  and told Alabama Law Enforcement   Secretary Spencer Collier to travel to Greenville to retrieve it. ’ ’   His wife’’s chief of staff Heather Hannah also  that   Bentley told her she would ”never work in the state of Alabama   again” if she told anyone about the affair, the  outlines. ’ ”   After repeatedly finding her husband’s  Dianne Bentley  from her husband of 50 years in 2015. ” ’   Some of the  include: ’ ’  ’ ’   After Bentley discovered that his wife was reading his text   messages, he  to communicate with Mason. ’ ’   He  by the time the administration began   investigating his misuse of state funds in 2016.  ’ ’   A day after he was let go, Collier finally  to the press. ’ ”   The governor’s wife then released pages and pages of phone   conversations and text messages to the ethics committee to help   the investigation. ” ’   Bentley  doing anything illegal or improper up until his   resignation on Monday. ’ ’   ”I have decided that it is time for me to step down as Alabama’’s   governor,” Bentley said at a press conference Monday evening.   ”The time has come for me to look for new ways to serve the   people of our great state.” ’ ’   State lawmakers were in the middle of deciding whether to impeach   him when Bentley  to      to two misdemeanors, repay the misused funds, and never hold   public office again. ’ ’When a former Alabama governor started sending. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’