’  ’ ’   The US has deployed the largest nonnuclear bomb in its inventory   on an ISIS target in a remote part of far northeast Afghanistan,   according to the Pentagon. ’ ’   US forces in Afghanistan  the    Massive Ordnance Air Blast   Bomb, whose acronym has inspired the nickname ”Mother of All   Bombs,” over the Achin district of Afghanistan’’s Nangarhar   province, which borders northwest Pakistan. ’ ”   The MOAB, which was developed during the Iraq War, is the US’s   largest nonnuclear bomb and had not been used in combat until   now. ” ’   The    bomb weighs 21, 000 pounds  —   18, 700 pounds of   which is the warhead  —   and was dropped from a   aircraft a   little after 7 p. m. local time on Thursday, the Pentagon said. ’ ’   ”This is a weapon that would be used against a large footprint on   the ground,” CNN analyst Barbara Starr . The target in question was reportedly   an ISIS complex of tunnels, caves, and a camp where personnel   were assembling. ’ ’   The bomb explodes in the air above its target and creates   overpressure  and everything in   them. ’ ’   The area is very close to the Pakistan border, Starr said, and   ”is still a border that is not really controlled.” ’ ’   ”And they have seen ISIS develop on the Afghanistan side of the   this border,” she added. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”At 7:32 p. m. local time today, US forces   Afghanistan conducted   a strike on an   tunnel complex in Achin district, Nangarhar   province, Afghanistan, as part of ongoing efforts to defeat     in Afghanistan in 2017,” US Central Command said in a   statement, referring to the ISIS branch in Afghanistan and   Pakistan, . ’ ’   ”The strike used a   bomb dropped from a US aircraft,” the   statement said. ”The strike was designed to minimize the risk to   Afghan and US forces conducting clearing operations in the area   while maximizing the destruction of   fighters and   facilities.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tUSAF doesn’t have a factsheet on MOAB, so heres a rundown from our almanac. MOP is bigger by weight, but MOAB’s warhead & yield much larger.  ” ’   ”As  ’’s losses have mounted, they are using IEDs, bunkers,   and tunnels to thicken their defense,” Gen. John W. Nicholson,   the commander of US forces in Afghanistan, said in the statement.   ”This is the right munition to reduce these obstacles and   maintain the momentum of our offensive against  .” ’ ’   Russia, Pakistan, and China have also warned of  in Afghanistan. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Central Command statement said US forces ”took every   precaution to avoid civilian casualties.” However, the size and   power of the MOAB means damage to the surrounding area can be   extensive. ’ ’   ”Dropping a 21, 000 lb bomb is not exactly a battle,” journalist   Jeremy Scahill  about the bombing. ”It’’s a   mass killing machine.” ’ ”   The MOAB’s deployment comes just a few days after a US Special   Forces operator was killed in the same region of the country   during operations against ISIS. ” ’   ”The soldier was mortally wounded late Saturday during an   operation in Nangarhar Province,” US Navy Capt. Bill Salvin    on Saturday. ’ ’   You can see video footage of the MOAB below: ’ ’ ’ ’   The Taliban has also been resurgent in Afghanistan in recent   months,  that   forces   had long fought to hold. In 2016, Afghanistan reportedly  to Taliban   control. ’ ”   Other important development programs, including education,   infrastructure, and women’s rights, . ” ’  ’ ’   In recent months, civilians have come under fire, both from    and  attacks and from . Questions have been raised   about  in   incidents where Afghan civilians are killed in   military   operations. ’ ’   US conduct in Afghanistan has also attracted criticism. The   International Criminal Court has said  in   Afghanistan through the ”cruel or violent” interrogation of   detainees, mostly from 2003 to 2004. ’ ’   Numerous US military officials have also  about  in the country. Afghan   officials have said Iran and Pakistan  to the Taliban. ’ ’  ’ ’   Army Gen. Joseph Votel, the chief of US Central Command, has said   the war in Afghanistan has  and that he thought   ”it will involve additional forces to ensure that we can make the      mission more effective.” ’ ’   The  will enter its 16th   year in 2017. This spring,  are scheduled to deploy to the   country. ’ ’   Even after 15 years of occupation, opium cultivation in the   country has risen,  according to the UN   Office on Drugs and Crime. ’ ”   Afghanistan’s deputy minister of the interior for   counternarcotics said the country’s campaign against drugs was   failing. ” ’   ”The government is too busy fighting against terrorism and the   Taliban and is losing the battle against drugs,”  ”but everything is   interconnected.” ’ ’   The US has deployed heavy ordnance in the country before. ’ ’   In November 2001, during the initial invasion of Afghanistan, the   US dropped   —   which weighed 15, 000   pounds and were first used to clear helicopter landing zones in   the jungles of Vietnam  —   on Taliban positions. ’ ’The US has deployed the largest nonnuclear bomb. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’