’’ ”Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos  on Wednesday. It’s a   missive filled with pearls of management philosophy and leadership lessons from the guy who created a $430 billion juggernaut.” ’Bezos is focused particularly on how to prevent a successful company from becoming a lumbering and complacent organization that eventually succumbs to ”stasis. Followed by irrelevance. Followed by excruciating, painful decline. Followed by death. ”’ ’One of the main ways Bezos believes a company can avoid this fate is by making a concerted effort to never become a slave to established processes, no matter how entrenched they are in company culture.’ ’”This can happen very easily in large organizations,” Bezos said. ”The process becomes the proxy for the result you want. You stop looking at outcomes and just make sure you’’re doing the process right. Gulp.’ ’”It’’s not that rare to hear a junior leader defend a bad outcome with something like, ’’Well, we followed the process. ’’ A more experienced leader will use it as an opportunity to investigate and improve the process. The process is not the thing. It’’s always worth asking, do we own the process or does the process own us? ”’ ’This lesson is especially timely in the wake of  a paying passenger from one of its planes.’ ’United took a long time to apologize for the incident and the way it treated a customer. Instead, it tried to justify its actions, insisting that removing the passenger was within its rights and necessary  —   the flight was overbooked and the company needed the seat for a United staffer en route to another flight.’ ’’ ’United CEO Oscar Munoz even  that employees had ”followed established procedures for dealing with situations like this. ”’ ”The world was aghast that United could treat a passenger in such a manner. But United didn’t see this. From its perspective, it followed the process. The fact that the outcome was so damaging to the passenger, and United’s public image, was understood by the company’s management far too late.” ’Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos released his annual. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’