’WWE heavyweight turned  Dwayne ”The Rock” Johnson seems to get bigger and bigger with every movie. His body hardly even looks real, and he works hard to maintain it. He’’s striving for greatness, and a great physique is one of his top priorities.’ ’For ”The Fate of the Furious,” he bulked up to make his character, Hobbs, the biggest he’’s ever appeared in the ”Fast and Furious” movies or on the big screen generally.’ ’Johnson often documents his workout routine and diet on his  where he also occasionally posts photos and videos of his adorable dogs.’ ”Here’s what The Rock’s workout routine and diet are like:” ’”He loves to train, so you struggle to keep him out of the gym,” said Dave Rienzi, Johnson’’s trainer. ”When I started working with [Johnson] he was spending too much time in the gym, which was a little counterproductive, so I had to try to limit him to a really intense   minutes. ”’ ’Source: ’ ’ ’ ’”I’’m stepping on set 260lbs of the meanest, strongest and most highly funny & entertaining     talkin’’ version of Hobbs the franchise has ever seen,” Johnson said on .’ ’Sometimes he’’ll treat himself to a ”cheat meal” like the one pictured here: ”8 slices of sourdough French toast topped with loads of apple pie,” according to Johnson.’ ’Source: ’ ’The weight of the food can be up to 10 pounds a day. His diet consists of mostly meat, vegetables, and eggs, and it has evolved over the years.’ ’Source: ’ ”They’re incredibly intense and definitely not for beginners. He likes to target major muscle groups and individual muscles  —   chest, back, biceps, legs,  —   from pretty much every angle.” ”You can read specific exercises and Johnson’s notes on them at .” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’Johnson typically hits the gym at around 4 or 5 a. m. for some cardio. After eating breakfast, he does weight training for an hour and a half.’ ’”I love putting in that hard work as early as possible to get my day started off on the right foot, mentally and physically,” he told .’ ’Twice per day, leaving one day to relax.’ ’Source: ’ ’He said he always hated the taste, despite  in a year.’ ’ ’ ’WWE heavyweight turned   actor in. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’