’  ’ ’   The US has  in its   inventory on an ISIS target in a remote part of far northeast   Afghanistan, the Pentagon confirmed on Thursday. ’ ’   The    Massive Ordnance Air Blast, whose acronym has   inspired the nickname ”Mother of All Bombs” or ”MOAB,” weighs   over 21, 000 pounds. ’ ’   It was developed during the Iraq War. It had not been used in   combat until now. ’ ”   It was dropped on an  or   camp in the Achin district of   Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province, which borders northwest   Pakistan, US officials with direct knowledge of the mission told   CNN. ” ’   An online simulator called    which stands for   Detonation Effects Simulator, ”maps   overpressure radii generated by a   detonation.” ’ ’   ”These radii are an indicator of structural damage to buildings,”   the simulator says. ’ ”   Through the simulator, you can see how the MOAB would affect New   York City, Los Angeles, London, and other big cities, based on   the HYDESim’s estimate of its explosive yield. (The exact yield   is classified, but it’s approximately . 011KT) ” ’   Based on the simulator’’s calculations, the effects of the bomb   would be widely felt, causing ”most glass surfaces, such as   windows” to shatter, ”some with enough force to cause injury” as   much as a mile from the blast site, according to the simulator.   The actual blast would likely destroy one or two city   blocks. ’ ”   By contrast, the US’s most powerful nuclear bomb  —   the B83, with   a  maximum yield  —   would have a   blast radius of nearly 20 miles.  ” ’   The MOAB strike on Thursday ”was designed to minimize the risk to   Afghan and US forces conducting clearing operations in the area   while maximizing the destruction of   fighters and   facilities,” US Central Command said in a statement. ’ ’   ”As  ’’s losses have mounted, they are using IEDs, bunkers,   and tunnels to thicken their defense,” Gen. John Nicholson,   commander of US forces in Afghanistan, said in the statement.   ”This is the right munition to reduce these obstacles and   maintain the momentum of our offensive against  .” ’ ’  ’ ’   Watch footage of the MOAB being tested: ’ ’ ’ ’ Christopher Woody contributed reporting. ’ ’The US has deployed the largest nonnuclear bomb. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’