’  ’ ”   America’s business leaders are rethinking how they network. ” ’   Gone are the days when execs both young and more veteran had the   time to spend hours at a boozy lunch or on the golf course.   Taking its place are a whole new set of networking activities  —     think ”sweatworking” on a run or at a SoulCycle class, or going   on a cultural retreat with business associates.  ’ ”   Leading the charge is a new generation of business leaders who   value efficiency and   more than ever before. Rather   than devote a large chunk of time to a formal activity they   wouldn’t necessarily enjoy otherwise, many execs are seeing the   value in combining their hobbies with their business.  ” ’   ”I have found one of the most interesting ones has been music   festivals. Several very compelling things have come out of   Bonnaroo, Outside Lands, and   for us over the past few   years,” Amar Lalvani, CEO of hotel group  told   Business Insider. ”It’’s a real opportunity where executives are   way out of their element, let their hair down, and have the time   and space to have unexpected conversations about shared interests   that lead to ideas and initiatives.” ’ ’   ”[It’’s] consistent with the almost total blending of work and   play for most executives these days.” ’ ’   For many of those execs, that means getting a workout in while   they catch up with contacts. The trend of taking clients to   SoulCycle has been  but execs at the fitness studio say they see   ”sweatworking” becoming even more popular.   ’ ’   ”At first it was mostly people in media and finance, but now it’’s   lots of industries,” Gabby Cohen, SoulCycle’’s VP of brand   strategy, told Business Insider. ”We’’re all     but it’’s important to stay connected to other people. Having the   chance to connect with people in a positive, healthy way for a   short period of time makes SoulCycle an appealing option for   this.” ’ ’   During SXSW,  partnered with Cyc   Fitness to host a    event at   different sites around Austin. ’ ’   ”Our attendance was really high,” Justin Breton, Foursquare’’s   head of marketing partnerships, said. ”People felt that they did   something different from the usual drinking and eating events at   SXSW.” ’ ’  ’ ”   In general, the idea of interrupting a day’s work flow to   entertain a client over lunch is becoming less popular. ” ’   ”Running a startup, I rarely have time for a full   lunch   meeting in order to network and continue building our business,”   Adrian Aoun, CEO and founder of the   healthcare startup    told Business   Insider. ”Many times I resort to eating a quick lunch at my desk,   but as the founder of a startup that’’s   I know all   too well how detrimental being sedentary all day can be. For this   reason, I make almost all my meetings walking meetings. ’ ’   ”I even ask my office manager not to schedule a conference room   so it forces good behavior. I find walking meetings to be much   more productive because you have to focus and can’’t be distracted   by your phone or laptop.” ’ ’   The trend of ”sweatworking” is certainly more common among tech   or media companies, where employees tend to be more willing to   stray from tradition. But even on Wall Street, today’’s   business lunches pale in extravagance compared to the meetings   bankers held prior to the recession. Many businesses are becoming   more   and, along with that, more cautious about   appearing wasteful.  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ”igh rents and other shifts in the New York   real estate market are also big factors in a restaurant’s   success.  ” ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   As NPD Group analyst Matt Powell observed in a  in 2014, the golf industry has had a hard   time appealing to a younger generation of millennials who have a   completely different set of values. Golf is expensive,     and exclusive, which doesn’’t exactly jive with a   generation who takes pride in ”the hustle” and  over luxury goods.  ’ ’   ”Millennials were hit hard by the recession. This caused them to   seek value in every purchase,” Powell . ”Millennials are willing to spend on things they think   are important but always look at purchases with a value lens.   Spending big money on rounds and equipment apparently does not   connote value to millennials.” ’ ”   But getting some exercise, even if it’s just for a walk,   does.  ” ”America’s business leaders are rethinking how. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’