’’ ”Jeff Nobbs, founder and CEO of   food delivery startup  is working to upgrade   out of the most ironic of places: an abandoned McDonald’s restaurant.” ’Founded in 2015 out of the   mecca that is San Francisco, Mealmade caters to the customers whose specialized diets (think paleo,  are ignored by most delivery apps, Nobbs says. Every dish is is made to order, cooked with healthy fats, and uses ingredients picked from farms within 200 miles, sometimes the day before.’ ”The startup recently converted a former McDonald’s restaurant into its new headquarters. Business Insider had the chance to go behind the kitchen doors and try the food. Take a look.” ’Some ingredients, like proteins, are cooked halfway earlier in the day to speed up preparation during rush delivery times. But the dishes are never   ahead of time or frozen.’ ’”I always thought it was really weird that, [with] something like consumer electronics, you go on Amazon and you see big pictures, detailed specifications, and user reviews. Then you go to restaurants and decide what you’’re going to put in your body, and there’’s like eight words to describe it,” says Nobbs, who started his career running an   startup, Extrabux.’ ’The startup prides itself on its creative substitutions in the kitchen. ’ ’When I ordered two meaty entrees, a side, and a desser, the food arrived in less than an hour.’ ”Mealmade uses UberRUSH, the startup’s enterprise solution, to leverage its massive driver network rather than hire independent contractors. It charges a delivery fee between $3 and $5.” ’It was like a   burrito bowl from Chipotle (without the extra charge for guacamole). But at $15, the Carne Asada Taco Bowl  as a similar item at Chipotle.’ ’The batter overwhelmed the   chicken pieces, but I would eat paper if it were dunked in the housemade Citrus Sauce. Made with organic orange juice, coconus aminos, tapioca flour, honey, and other ingredients, it tasted sweet and tangy, like biting into a fresh kumquat.’ ”While not every dish was a home run, the startup’s fresh takes on dietary staples proved that, at a cost, customers could upgrade the quality of their meals a couple of times a week.” ’Jeff Nobbs, founder and CEO of   food. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’