’  ’ ’   The Trump administration may be entangling itself in  ethical landmine. ’ ’   In this case, the White House could have violated its own ethics   rules with at least two hires, a    found. ’ ”   One potential conflict involves  who is the White House’s top energy adviser. Until   last year, the Times and ProPublica found, Catanzaro was working   as a lobbyist for the fossil fuel industry and had clients like   Devon Energy of Oklahoma, and Talen Energy of Pennsylvania. ” ”   Both companies were stalwart opponents of former president   Obama’s environmental regulations, like the  which sought to reduce climate change   caused by fossil fuels, and promote the use of alternative energy   sources. Trump signed an executive order undoing the plan in   March. As the White House’s top energy adviser, Catanzaro will   handle many of those same issues. ” ”   Another possible ethical dilemma involves .   Wolf, the Times and ProPublica investigation found, is currently   the chief of staff at the Transportation Security Administration,   but he  lobbying the TSA   to secure funding for a new   luggage screening device,   which could cost hundreds of millions of dollars. Wolf’s new role   as the TSA’s chief of staff puts him in a prime position to make   the decision he had previously spent years lobbying for. ” ”   In another instance, two officials who joined the Department of   Labor were direct recruits from Washington’s lobbyist circle.   According to the investigation, prior to joining the White House,   the two officials were opponents of Obama’s labor policies,   including the  which stipulated that financial advisers had   to act in the best interest of their clients when providing   retirement advice. ” ’   Determining whether the White House violated its own ethics rules   by hiring lobbyists, however, is a murky area, because the   investigation found that the Trump administration has secretly   been issuing waivers to the very same rules it first introduced   in a stated effort to increase transparency. ’ ’  ’ ” in January eliminating an   Obama rule mandating that lobbyists could not accept jobs in   federal agencies they had lobbied. Trump’s elimination of that   rule blurred ethical standards for at least 4, 000 executive   hires, the Times and ProPublica investigation found. ” ’   Examining the degree to which ethical misconduct may have   occurred is next to impossible now, according to Walter M. Shaub   Jr. director of the Office of Government Ethics. ’ ’   Although the Obama administration also issued ethical waivers, it   did so under a narrow set of circumstances. Those waivers also   had to be disclosed for public inspection. Now that it is no   longer required to disclose waivers, Shaub told the Times that   ”there’’s no transparency, and I have no idea how many waivers   have been issued.” ’ ”   While it is not uncommon for lobbyists to become government   officials  —   the Obama administration had  on its payroll at one   point  —   Trump’s critics have repeatedly scrutinized the current   administration’s overall lack of transparency and questionable   ethical conduct. ” ’   On Friday, for example, the White House announced that it    and that   they would be kept secret for five years after Trump leaves the   White House. The move, which drew instant backlash from   government accountability advocates across the country, means   that the White House will not be releasing information about   bankers, lobbyists, or other officials who may visit the grounds   in an effort to influence government policy. ’ ’   Trump has also refused to release his tax returns since he   launched his presidential campaign, saying that he cannot   disclose them because they are under audit. The IRS said during   the campaign that Trump had the freedom to release his tax   returns, regardless of whether he was under audit. ’ ’   After    calling for the president to release his tax returns,  on Sunday that ”the election   is over!” ’ ’  ’ ”   The president ignited a number of ethical controversies with his   initial staff appointments, the most significant of which was his   decision to make    Jared Kushner a senior adviser. Since   assuming his role, Kushner has steadily gained influence in his     ’s inner circle and taken on more responsibility,   including visiting Iraq and meeting with the Iraqi prime minister   before Secretary of State Rex Tillerson did. ” ’   The White House also recently announced that Kushner would be   head of the new White House Office of American Innovation, which   will aim to use business tactics to overhaul the federal   government. ’ ’   In late March, it was announced that Trump’’s daughter and   Kushner’’s wife, Ivanka, would be assuming a ”voluntary” role in   her father’’s administration, and would function as Trump’’s ”eyes   and ears” in the White House. She also received security   clearance and an office in the West Wing. ’ ”   After  against the opacity of   Ivanka’s new role and the conflicts of interest raised by her   assuming a White House position while maintaining ownership of   her eponymous fashion brand, it was announced that    and that she would be subject to the same ethics rules imposed on   other federal employees. Her new position is that of an unpaid   adviser. ” ’The Trump administration may be entangling. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’