’  ’ ”     (Reuters)   The United States, its allies   and China are working together on a range of responses to North   Korea’s latest attempted ballistic missile test, U. S. President   Donald Trump’s national security adviser said on Sunday, citing   what he called an international consensus to act. ” ’   ”We are working together with our allies and partners and with   the Chinese leadership to develop a range of options,” national   security adviser H. R. McMaster said on ABC’’s ”This Week” program. ’ ’   ”This latest missile test just fits into a pattern of provocative   and destabilizing and threatening behavior on the part of the   North Korean regime,” McMaster said. ’ ’   He said the president has asked the national security council to   integrate the efforts of the Defense and State departments and   U. S. intelligence agencies to develop options if ”this pattern of   behavior continues and if the North Korean Regime refuses to   denuclearize.” ’ ’   ”There is an international consensus now, including the Chinese   leadership, that this is a situation that just cannot continue,”   McMaster said. ’ ’   The North Korean missile ”blew up almost immediately” after its   test launch on Sunday, the U. S. Pacific Command said. ’ ”   Hours later U. S. Vice President Mike Pence landed in South Korea   for talks on the North’s increasingly defiant arms program. His   visit comes a day after North Korea held a grand military parade   in its capital city of Pyongyang, marking the birth anniversary   of the state founder. What appeared to be new     ballistic missiles were on display in the parade. ” ’  ’ ’   Tensions have been steadily rising as Trump takes a hard   rhetorical line with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, who has   rebuffed admonitions from China and proceeded with nuclear and   missile programs seen by Washington as a direct threat. ’ ”   Trump on Sunday acknowledged that the softer line he has taken on   China’s management of its currency was linked to China’s help on   the North Korea issue. ” ’   ”Why would I call China a currency manipulator when they are   working with us on the North Korean problem? We will see what   happens!” Trump said on Twitter. Trump has backed away from a   campaign promise to label China in that way. ’ ’   South Korea said the North’’s latest show of force ”threatened the   whole world.” ’ ’   But a U. S. foreign policy adviser traveling with Pence on Air   Force Two sought to defuse some of the tension, saying the test   of what was believed to be a   missile had come as no   surprise. ’ ’   ”We had good intelligence before the launch and good intelligence   after the launch,” the adviser told reporters on condition of   anonymity. ’ ’   ”It’’s a failed test. It follows another failed test. So really no   need to reinforce their failure. We don’’t need to expend any   resources against that. ”The adviser said the missile’’s flight   lasted four or five seconds. ’ ’   Pence, addressing an Easter service with American troops in South   Korea, said the U. S. commitment to South Korea was unwavering. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Let me assure you under President Trump’’s leadership, our   resolve has never been stronger. Our commitment to this historic   alliance with the courageous people of South Korea has never been   stronger.” ’ ’   Pence was beginning a   trip to Asia in what his aides said   was a sign of U. S. commitment to its ally in the face of rising   tension. ’ ’   The U. S.   Carl Vinson aircraft carrier strike   group is also heading to the region. (http:  . ) ’ ’   China, which Trump has urged to do more to rein in North Korea,   has spoken out against its weapons tests and has supported U. N.   sanctions. It has repeatedly called for talks while appearing   increasingly frustrated with the North. ’ ”   China banned imports of North Korean coal on Feb. 26, cutting off   its most important export. China’s customs department issued an   order on April 7 telling traders to return North Korean coal   cargoes, said trading sources with knowledge of the order. ” ”   Trump’s decision to order a cruise missile strike on a Syrian   airfield this month, in response to what he said was Syria’s use   of chemical weapons, raised questions about his plans for   reclusive North Korea. ” ’   Pyongyang has conducted several missile and nuclear tests in   defiance of U. N. sanctions, and regularly threatens to destroy   South Korea and the United States. ’ ’   ”The president has made clear that he will not accept the United   States and its allies and partners in the region being under   threat from this hostile regime with nuclear weapons,” McMaster   told ABC. ’ ’   But McMaster, who was speaking from Kabul, Afghanistan,   acknowledged the likelihood of North Korean retaliation if   Washington uses military force in an attempt to stop its weapons   programs. ’ ’   ”What (is) particularly difficult about    about dealing with   this regime, is that it is unpredictable,” he said. ’ ’   ”It’’s time for us to undertake all actions we can, short of a   military option, to try to resolve this peacefully,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   South Korea, which hosts 28, 500 U. S. troops and holds a   presidential election on May 9, warned of punitive action if the   Sunday launch led to further provocation. ’ ’   ”North Korea showing a variety of offensive missiles at   yesterday’’s military parade and daring to fire a ballistic   missile today is a show of force that threatens the whole world,”   South Korea’’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement. ’ ’   Impoverished North Korea and the rich, democratic South are   technically still at war because their   conflict ended in   a truce, not a peace treaty. ’ ’   The North has warned of a nuclear strike against the United   States if provoked. It has said it has developed and would launch   a missile that can strike the mainland United States but   officials and experts believe it is some time away from mastering   the necessary technology, including miniaturizing a nuclear   warhead. ’ ”   North Korea launched a ballistic missile from the same region   this month, ahead of a summit between the United States and China   in Florida to discuss the North’s arms program. ” ’   But that missile, which U. S. officials said appeared to be a       Scud, only flew about 60 km (40   miles) a fraction of its range, before spinning out of control. ’ ’   Tension had escalated sharply amid concern the North may conduct   a sixth nuclear test or a ballistic missile test around   Saturday’’s 105th anniversary of the birth of founding father Kim   Il Sung, what it calls the ”Day of the Sun”. ’ ’   China’’s top diplomat, Yang Jiechi, and U. S. Secretary of State   Rex Tillerson exchanged views on the ”situation on the Korean   peninsula” by phone on Sunday, China’’s official Xinhua News   Agency said. Yang said the two sides should maintain dialogue. ’ ’  ’ ’   In Pyongyang, there was a festive atmosphere at a flower show,   with families out, taking pictures with North   smart   phones. There was no mention of the test failure by the KCNA   state news agency. ’ ’   Company worker Rim Chung Ryol, 30, said he had not heard of the   test. ’ ’   ”If it is a failure, then failure is the mother of success,” he   told Reuters. ’ ’   Factory worker Ri Gul Chol, 37, also had not heard about the   missile test. ’ ’   ”But whatever Kim Jong Un decides and instructs will succeed and   all the citizens will support him,” he said. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Roberta Rampton and   Park in   SEOUL, Joseph Campbell and Philip Wen in DANDONG, Christian   Shepherd in BEIJING, Daniel Trotta in NEW YORK and Caren Bohan in   WASHINGTON; Writing by Nick Macfie and Warren Strobel; Editing by   Robert Birsel, Keith Weir and Diane Craft) ’ ’  (Reuters)   The United. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’