’  ’ ”   A new book on Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign for president   details how the candidate seemed to blame everyone but herself   for her stunning loss to President Donald Trump. ” ”   Jonathan Allen and Amie Parnes wrote in  that Clinton’s   campaign lacked vision and was filled with infighting staffers   who were more concerned about their own careers than they were   about helping the candidate win. ” ’   The Democratic presidential nominee reportedly laid blame on   several external factors  —   incompetent campaign staff, Russian   interference in the election, the media, and FBI Director Jim   Comey  —   rather than consider that she was a flawed candidate. Her   campaign has . ’ ’   It all started with the scandal surrounding her use of a private   email server while she was secretary of state. ’ ’   During the first months of the scandal, Clinton reportedly   thought she did nothing wrong and was angry that she was   being treated ”like a common criminal.” She blamed Republicans in   Congress, conservative donors, and the media for all the negative   coverage of the email story. ’ ’   Allen and Parnes wrote that while Clinton ”should have been angry   with herself” for her decision to use a private server while   working for the government, she instead ”turned her fury on her   consultants and campaign aides, blaming them for a failure to   focus the media on her platform.” ’ ’   Neither Hillary nor her husband, former President Bill   Clinton, ”could accept the simple fact that Hillary had hamstrung   her own campaign and dealt the most serious blow to her own   presidential aspirations.” ’ ’   That became apparent during a   2015 conference   call, in which Hillary and Bill accosted   campaign   staffers for failing to get the media to focus on Clinton’’s   message rather than the email scandal. One of the   participants on the call reportedly called it an ” .” ’ ’   It took months for those close to Clinton to convince her to   . The media firestorm calmed a bit once she did, and   she got a boost when Vice President Joe Biden declined to   challenge her in the primaries. But she faced more defining   setbacks in the primary process. ’ ’  ’ ’   A turning point came in March, when Clinton lost the   Michigan primary to her rival for the Democratic presidential   nomination, Sen. Bernie Sanders, a result that stunned observers   . ’ ’   Clinton again blamed her her campaign team for ”failing to hone   her message, energize important constituencies, and take care of   business in getting voters to the polls,” Allen and Parnes wrote. ’ ’   During a debate prep session, Clinton reportedly snapped at   senior policy adviser Jake Sullivan, who was criticizing her   performance. ’ ’   ”It wasn’’t just Sullivan in her crosshairs,” Allen and Parnes   wrote. ”She let everyone on her team have it that day. ’’We   haven’’t made our case,’’ she fumed. ’’We haven’’t framed the choice.   We haven’’t done the politics. ’’” ’ ’   One aide who was in the room for the debate prep said Clinton was   ”visibly, unflinchingly pissed off at us as a group” and she ”let   us know she felt that way.” ’ ’   Clinton’’s team had reportedly warned her about some of her weak   spots, but she reportedly ”hadn’’t corrected for these problems.”   And aides seemed afraid to speak out for fear of seeming   disloyal. ’ ’   ”The one person with whom she didn’’t seem particularly upset:   herself,” Allen and Parnes wrote. ”No one who drew a salary from   the campaign would tell her that. It was a   death   warrant to raise a question about Hillary’’s competence  —   to her   or anyone else  —   in   Clintonworld.” ’ ’   A top campaign lieutenant described Clinton’’s loss in the   Michigan primary as the ”tipping point” for the campaign. ’ ’   Things got worse from there. The summer and early fall was   dominated by Russian hackers leaking emails from the Democratic   National Committee and Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta.   Later in  FBI Director Jim Comey announced a renewed look   into whether Clinton discussed classified information over   her private email server. ’ ’   After she lost the election to Trump, Clinton ”kept circling back   to two factors: James Comey and Russia,” according to the book.   During the final days before the election, Comey notified   Congress that the bureau was reopening its investigation   into Clinton’’s private email server. The decision was prompted by   the bureau learning of emails were uncovered after   the FBI seized devices belonging to Huma Abedin and her husband,   former congressman Anthony Weiner. ’ ’   On election night in her hotel suite, Clinton ”lashed out,” Allen   and Parnes wrote. ”Her voice rose. Her eyes grew wider. Her hands   began moving again. ’’These guys came in,’’ she huffed. ’’We were   doing better until this happened. ’’” ’ ’  ’ ’   The blame game continued in the days after the election. In   one phone call with a friend a couple of days after the election,   Clinton ”put a fine point on the factors she believed cost her   the presidency: the FBI (Comey) the KGB (the old name for   Russia’’s intelligence service) and the KKK (the support Trump   got from white nationalists),” Allen and Parnes wrote. ’ ’   In other phone calls, Clinton ”declined to take responsibility   for her own loss.” ’ ’   ”From Hillary’’s perspective, external forces created a perfect   storm that wiped her out,” Allen and Parnes wrote. ”In this   telling, laid out in scores of interviews with Clinton campaign   aides and advisers . .. the media bought into an absurd and   partisan   investigation into her email server that   combined with Bernie Sanders’’ attack on her character and a   conservative assault on the Clinton Foundation’’s practices to sow   a public perception that she was fundamentally dishonest.” ’ ’   Some of her staunchest defenders ”maintain that she nailed every   major moment of the campaign.” But Allen and Parnes   wrote that another view, ”articulated by a much smaller   number of her close friends and   advisers, holds that   Hillary bears the blame for her defeat” because of her own   actions and her inability to ”prove to many voters that she was   running for the presidency because she had a vision for the   country rather than visions of power.” ’ ’   In their eyes, Clinton also failed to connect with the voters who   were inspired by Sanders and Trump. And some on her campaign   thought she lacked the vision of other politicians like President   Barack Obama. ’ ’   This was on display during her speech at the Democratic   National Convention. ’ ’   ”One of the clearest lines of distinction between a great   political speech and a pedestrian one is the ability of the   speaker to turn the peroration  —   the final run  —   into a big call   for action,” Allen and Parnes wrote. ”Hillary’’s fell flat. Her   pro speechwriters knew it would. They tried to save her from   being hokey and timid. But she’’d ignored them.” ’ ’   Clinton ended her speech that night by saying that ”America’’s   destiny is ours to choose” and repeating her ”stronger together”   campaign slogan. ’ ’   Clinton did, however, offer contrition to at least one person on   election night  —   Obama. ’ ’   After she conceded the election to Trump, Obama place a   consolation call to Clinton. In this moment, ”the reality and   dimensions of her defeat hit her all at once,” according to the   book. ’ ’   ”Reluctantly, she rose from her seat and took the phone,” Allen   and Parnes wrote. ’ ’   ”’’Mr. President,’’ she said softly, ’’I’’m sorry. ’’” ’ ”A new book on Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’