’  ’ ’   The man known as the ”Facebook killer” may have been taken down   by a group of McDonald’’s employees in Erie, Pennsylvania,   authorities said Tuesday. ’ ’   Steve Stephens posted a video of himself shooting and killing a   man on Facebook on Sunday. Police said he  of an apparent   gunshot   wound to the head on Tuesday afternoon after a brief pursuit by   Pennsylvania state police. ’ ”   Before the car chase, however, Stephens stopped at a McDonald’s     and ordered 20 Chicken McNuggets and large fries for   $5. 35, the restaurant’s manager, Henry Sayers, . ” ”   A female employee recognized Stephens when he came up to the   window, then she confirmed with other workers that it was him,   according to police and Tom DuCharme, who owns that McDonald’s   franchise. ” ”   The employee took Stephens’ money and waited for him to drive up   to the next window before calling the police, DuCharme said.   Although workers tried to stall Stephens by giving him his   chicken nuggets but holding up his order of fries, he didn’t   wait. ” ’   ”He just took his nuggets and said, ’’I have to go,’’ and he drove   off,” Sayers told The Times. He said Stephens didn’’t speed away   from the restaurant but drove at a normal speed. ’ ’   A McDonald’’s spokesman said in a statement to Business Insider:   ”We applaud the crew members at this McDonald’s restaurant who   recognized the suspect and did the right thing by quickly   alerting the authorities of his location. Our thoughts and   prayers are with the victim’s loved ones and all of those   impacted by this horrific crime.” ’ ’  ’ ’   By the time Stephens left the restaurant and turned onto Buffalo   Road, where police say he ultimately killed himself, police were   right behind him, DuCharme said. ’ ”   When police tracked down Stephens’ car, they pursued him while   trying to get him to pull over.   officials said   the chase did not go over 50 mph. ” ’   A state trooper eventually forced Stephens to stop by using what   police call the PIT maneuver, in which a pursuing car can force a   fleeing vehicle to suddenly turn, causing the driver to lose   control and stop. ’ ’   As officers approached his car, Stephens shot himself,   Pennsylvania state police  on Twitter and at a news conference. ’ ’   Stephens had been on the run from law enforcement since Sunday,   when he posted several disturbing videos on Facebook, including   one of him shooting and killing    Robert Godwin after   Godwin left an Easter meal with his family. ’ ’   Facebook  as well as others he   posted, and disabled his account within a few hours. ’ ’The man known as the ”Facebook killer” may have. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’