’  ’ ”   Bill O’Reilly may not be returning to Fox News after his   vacation,  story   published Tuesday. ” ”   Three sources cited by the publication said Fox News founder   Rupert Murdoch was fighting to keep the controversial commentator   on, while Murdoch’s sons, James and Lachlan Murdoch appear to be   leaning toward booting O’Reilly for good. ” ’   James Murdoch serves as the chief executive of 21st Century   Fox, the parent company of the network, while Lachlan Murdoch   serves as an e ’ ’   The latest report comes after a  earlier this month that   said O’’Reilly had paid $13 million over the course of several   years to agree ”not pursue litigation or speak about their   accusations.” ’ ’   The exposé was then followed by a   exodus of advertisers   from O’’Reilly’’s hit show ”The O’’Reilly Factor,” and street   protests outside of Fox News headquarters  —   all of the events   stemming from a sexual harassment scandal that has disrupted not   only O’’Reilly’’s brand, but the . ’ ”   Having had the   first quarter in history with an   average of almost four million viewers  each episode subsequently suffered   a massive   from notable advertisers after the allegations   came to light  —   forcing a dramatic change in the show’s   structure, including longer   segments and fewer commercial   breaks. ” ’   ”It’s worse than Glenn Beck,” one source said, referring to   another advertiser   from Beck’’s time slot on Fox News in   2011. ’ ’   Conservative commentator Matt Drudge also had a foreshadowing    on Tuesday afternoon: ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tO’Reilly has had tremendous run. Very few in the business get to decide when and how things end. Media is most brutal of all industries. ..’t’t” ’   Amid the public outcry and allegations against the controversial   television personality, more accusations are still coming to   light.  accused O’’Reilly of sexual   harassment, according to a Hollywood Reporter story published   Tuesday. The   clerical worker from Fox News   alleged that the anchor called her ”hot chocolate” in 2008. ’ ’   If the rumors of O’’Reilly’’s departure hold true, it may have   been fueled by the Murdochs’’ $14 billion takeover plans of Sky, a   European media company, where a media regulator was assigned to   determine whether the Murdochs were ”fit and proper” to stake   their claim. Having O’’Reilly ousted from the network may ”appease   critics and help close the Sky deal,” New York Magazine’’s Gabriel   Sherman wrote. ’ ”   Additionally, Sherman reported that the social culture at Fox   News may have played a factor in determining O’Reilly’ future. ” ’   ”Morale is awful,” said a Fox female executive to the magazine.   ”There’s been no word from management to calm the masses.” ’ ”   In a seperate  several anonymous sources also   came forward to say that talks of   O’Reilly’s  ” ”Bill O’Reilly may not be returning to Fox News. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’