’  ’ ”   A Russian government think tank controlled by Vladimir Putin   developed a plan to swing the 2016 US presidential election to   Donald Trump and undermine voters’ faith in the American   electoral system, three current and four former US officials told   Reuters. ” ’   They described two confidential documents from the think tank as   providing the framework and rationale for what US intelligence   agencies have concluded was an intensive effort by Russia to   interfere with the November 8 election. US intelligence officials   acquired the documents, which were prepared by the     Russian Institute for Strategic Studies, after the election. ’ ”   The institute is run by retired senior Russian     officials appointed by Putin’s office. ” ’   The first document was a strategy paper written last June that   circulated at the highest levels of the Russian government but   was not addressed to any specific people. ’ ’   It recommended the Kremlin launch a propaganda campaign on social   media and Russian   global news outlets to encourage   US voters to elect a president who would take a softer line   toward Russia than the administration of   Barack   Obama, the seven officials said. ’ ”   A second institute document, drafted in October and distributed   in the same way, warned that Democratic presidential candidate   Hillary Clinton was likely to win the election. For that reason,   it argued, it was better for Russia to end its     propaganda and instead intensify its messaging about voter fraud   to undermine the US electoral system’s legitimacy and damage   Clinton’s reputation in an effort to undermine her presidency,   the seven officials said. ” ”   The current and former officials spoke on the condition of   anonymity because of the Russian documents’ classified status.   They declined to discuss how the US obtained them. US   intelligence agencies also declined to comment on them. ” ’  ’ ”   Putin has denied interfering in the US election. Putin’s   spokesman and the Russian institute did not respond to requests   for comment. ” ’   The documents were central to the Obama administration’’s   conclusion that Russia mounted a ”fake news” campaign and   launched cyberattacks against Democratic Party groups and   Clinton’’s campaign, the current and former officials said. ’ ’   ”Putin had the objective in mind all along, and he asked the   institute to draw him a road map,” said one of the sources, a   former senior US intelligence official. ’ ”   Trump has said Russia’s activities had no effect on the outcome   of the race. Congressional and FBI investigations into Russian   interference have so far produced no public evidence that Trump   associates colluded with the Russian effort to change the outcome   of the election. ” ”   Four of the officials said the approach outlined in the June   strategy paper was a broadening of an effort the Putin   administration launched in March 2016. That month the Kremlin   instructed   media outlets, including international   platforms Russia Today and Sputnik news agency, to start   producing positive reports on Trump’s quest for the US   presidency, the officials said. ” ’   Russia Today did not respond to a request for comment. A   representative for Sputnik dismissed the assertions by the US   officials that it participated in a Kremlin campaign as an   ”absolute pack of lies.” ’ ’   ”And by the way, it’’s not the first pack of lies we’’re hearing   from ’’sources in US official circles,’’” the representative said   in an email. ’ ’  ’ ’   Russia Today and Sputnik published   stories, while     bloggers prepared a Twitter campaign calling into   question the fairness of an anticipated Clinton victory,   according to a report by US intelligence agencies on Russian   interference in the election made public in January. ’ ’   Russia Today’’s most popular Clinton video  —   ”How 100% of the 2015   Clintons’’ ’’charity’’ went to . .. themselves”  —   accumulated 9   million views on social media, according to the January report. ’ ’   The report said Russia Today and Sputnik ”consistently cast     Trump as the target of unfair coverage from   traditional media outlets.” ’ ’   The report said the agencies did not assess whether Moscow’’s   effort had swung the outcome of the race in Trump’’s favor,   because American intelligence agencies do not ”analyze US   political processes or US public opinion.” ’ ’   Neither of the Russian institute documents mentioned the release   of hacked Democratic Party emails to interfere with the US   election, according to four of the officials. The officials said   the hacking was a covert intelligence operation run separately   out of the Kremlin. ’ ’   The overt propaganda and covert hacking efforts reinforced each   other, according to the officials. Both Russia Today and Sputnik   heavily promoted the release of the hacked Democratic Party   emails, which often contained embarrassing details. ’ ”   Five of the US officials described the institute as the Kremlin’s       think tank. ” ’  ’ ”   The institute’s director when the documents were written, Leonid   Reshetnikov, rose to the rank of lieutenant general during a     career in Russia’s   service,   according to the institute’s website. After Reshetnikov retired   from the institute in January, Putin named as his replacement   Mikhail Fradkov. The institute says he served as the director of   Russia’s   service from 2007 to 2016. ” ”   Reuters was unable to determine if either man was directly   involved in the drafting of the documents. Reshetnikov’s office   referred questions to the Russian institute. ” ’   On its website, the institute describes itself as providing   ”expert appraisals,” ”recommendations,” and ”analytical   materials” to the Russian president’’s office, cabinet, National   Security Council, ministries, and Parliament. ’ ”   On January 31, the websites of Putin’s office and the institute   posted a picture and transcript of Reshetnikov and Fradkov   meeting with Putin in the Kremlin. Putin thanked Reshetnikov for   his service and told Fradkov he wanted the institute to provide   objective information and analysis. ” ’   ”We did our best for nearly eight years to implement your     concept,” Reshetnikov told Putin. ”The policy of   Russia and the policy of the president of Russia have been the   cornerstone of our operation.” ’ ’ (Reporting by Ned Parker and Jonathan Landay, additional   reporting by Warren Strobel and Arshad Mohammed; editing by David   Rohde and Ross Colvin) ’ ’A Russian government think tank controlled by. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’