’  ’ ’   Fox News host Bill O’’Reilly, ousted from the network in the wake   of a   scandal, said in a statement on Wednesday   it was ”disheartening” that ”completely unfounded claims” had   forced him out of his job. ’ ”   21st Century Fox said earlier on Wednesday that O’Reilly would   not return to Fox News after his impromptu vacation, ending weeks   of speculation about his future at the outlet. ” ’   ”Over the past 20 years at Fox News, I have been extremely proud   to launch and lead one of the most successful news programs in   history, which has consistently informed and entertained millions   of Americans and significantly contributed to building Fox into   the dominant news network in television,” O’’Reilly said in the   statement. ’ ’   ”It is tremendously disheartening that we part ways due to   completely unfounded claims,” he added. ”But that is the   unfortunate reality many of us in the public eye must live with   today.” ’ ’   O’’Reilly said he would look back on his time at Fox ”with great   pride in the unprecedented success” achieved and with ”deepest   gratitude” to his ”dedicated viewers.” ’ ’’ ”   O’Reilly had spearheaded the networks’ primetime lineup for over   two decades. The news of his departure from Fox comes on the   heels of an  from his show’s time   slot. Earlier this month, The New York Times published an   investigation that found that O’Reilly and Fox News had  to five women to settle     claims they had brought against him. ” ’   In an internal memo obtained by Business Insider, News Corp.   Executive Chairman Rupert Murdoch and his sons, Lachlan and   James, said that ”after a thorough and careful review of   allegations against him, the company and Bill O’’Reilly have   agreed that Mr. O’’Reilly will not return to the Fox News Channel. ’ ’   ”This decision follows an extensive review done in collaboration   with outside counsel,” the memo said. ’ ’   Tucker Carlson will take over O’’Reilly’’s 8 p. m. Eastern time   slot, Fox News said. O’’Reilly’’s show, ”The O’’Reilly Factor,” will   air the rest of this week with guest hosts. ’ ”Fox News host Bill O’Reilly, ousted from the. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’