’  ’ ’   An experimental drug derived from cannabis to treat epilepsy is   on the brink of becoming the first of its kind to win US   government approval. ’ ’   The drug is called Epidiolex, and its active ingredient is   cannabidiol, the compound in marijuana thought to be . ’ ”   Since cannabidiol doesn’t contain THC, the main psychoactive   ingredient in marijuana, it doesn’t get users high. But it does   appear to help reduce seizures in one of the      forms of epilepsy, known as  or LGS. ” ”   That’s according to  from a large clinical study,   which will be presented at the American Academy of Neurology’s   yearly meeting in Boston. For the study, researchers looked at   225 young people with LGS. The participants were all having   nearly 100 drop seizures each month and had already tried a   handful of epilepsy drugs that failed to help. The subjects   were split into groups and given a high dose of the cannabidiol,   a lower dose, or a placebo for 14 weeks. ” ’   The participants given the higher dose saw their seizure   occurrence drop by an average of 42%; for about 40% of those   people, their seizure rate was cut in half. Those who took the   lower dose also saw their seizure occurrence go down, but at a   slightly lower percentage of 37%. The participants on the   placebo, on the other hand, only saw a 17% reduction in their   seizures. ’ ’  ’ ’   Those are significant and promising findings. They build on some   previous research the company behind the drug, GW Pharma, did      called . For that study, those given the drug saw   their monthly convulsive seizure rate drop by more than a third,   while those given the placebo saw a reduction of only 13%. ’ ’   According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,   epilepsy affects more than . Among these millions, however, various types and   forms of epilepsy exist  —   and everyone reacts to treatments   differently. GW Pharma, which aims to submit its new drug   application to the FDA later this year, is exploring treatments   for various forms of epilepsy, but this drug would likely be   aimed at treating only specific types. ’ ’An experimental drug derived from cannabis to. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’