’  ’ ”   Russia sought to gain influence with the Trump campaign during   last year’s presidential election, in part by cozying up with   campaign officials, according to a . ” ”   As part of Russia’s attempts to influence the US election,   Kremlin operatives singled out specific Trump advisers  —   such as   Carter Page, a     staffer who was briefly   employed by the campaign. CNN cited unnamed US officials in their   report. ” ’   Page was courted extensively by Russian officials, CNN said. Page   has had a number of conversations with Russian operatives, and   has spoken at   events in 2016 and long before.   US officials have said some of the individuals Page has been in   contact with are operatives who were already on the radar of US   spy agencies. ’ ”   Additionally, American officials have examined the nature of   Page’s time in Russia  —   namely, a speech he gave at the New   Economic School in July 2016, where US officials said the speech   read as   Russian propaganda. According to CNN, Page   was invited in part because The Washington Post had cited him as   a Trump campaign adviser, though he told the audience when he was   there that he was not appearing as a Trump surrogate. ” ”   The sum total of Page’s interactions with Russia have led US   intelligence agencies to question whether Page was being used  —     knowingly or not  —   by   officials. Details about   Page’s contacts with Russia were outlined in an explosive dossier    —    compiled by a former British   spy. Contents of that dossier were apparently  to build a case to   request permission to spy on Page as part of its     probe. ” ’’ ”   Page has repeatedly denied any intentional involvement in   Russia’s meddling efforts. President Donald Trump has openly   dismissed the investigations into his and associates’ ties with   Russia. ” ”   The latest details add more wrinkles to the fabric of a   widespread investigation by the US to determine if, and how much,   the Trump universe collaborated with the Kremlin to boost Trump’s   chances of winning the election. US intelligence agencies have   been looking into Russia’s other tactics, including cyberattacks,   disinformation campaigns, and propaganda, as part of its   investigation. ” ’Russia sought to gain influence with the Trump. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’