’  ’ ’   To understand why Mark Zuckerberg  you have to go back   to a rare public testimony he gave in a Dallas courtroom earlier   this year. ’ ’   Zuckerberg was there to testify in a lawsuit between game maker   ZeniMax and Oculus, the virtual reality startup Facebook   purchased for $2 billion in 2014. ’ ’   While he was on the stand, Zuckerberg was asked to elaborate on   the implications of Facebook missing out on the smartphone   revolution. Zuckerberg had started Facebook in 2004, just after   mobile phones were already starting to catch on. ’ ’   ”Because of that, Facebook hasn’’t really been involved in   designing the operating systems and phones,” he explained.   ”Companies like Google and Apple have done that instead. And that   in some cases meant we haven’’t been able to design the   experiences that we hoped to deliver for our community.” ’ ”   Here’s what Zuckerberg was getting at: the world of mobile phones   that Facebook has built its $415 billion ad business on is   owned and controlled by Apple and Google, not Facebook. Apple and   Google are the landlords, and Facebook is just a tenant. ” ’  ’ ”   It’s with that context behind it that Facebook is  the nascent   technology that promises to overlay virtual information onto the   real world and eventually replace smartphones with something like   a pair of glasses or even contact lenses. ” ”   At Facebook’s annual developer conference this past week,   Zuckerberg unveiled a platform for the Facebook app’s camera   that can let outside developers create AR effects, like a video   game character over a person’s face or virtual dolphins swimming   around a bowl of cereal. ” ”   The end goal of AR, Zuckerberg said, is to have a pair of stylish   glasses that can display everything from directions and   entertainment to information about the objects you’re looking at,   like the cost of a bottle of wine, directly in front of your   eyes. And he wants all of it to be powered by Facebook. ” ’   ”We see the beginning of a new platform,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s easy and obvious to say that Facebook’s push into AR and   cameras now is a reaction to   ” ”   But the much larger motivation behind Facebook’s investments in   virtual and augmented reality is simple: to not miss out on the   next big wave of technology that comes after smartphones. That’s   why Facebook paid billions for Oculus, is  and  and is opening up its AR camera   effects to developers now. ” ”   If Facebook can build the AR equivalent of Apple’s iOS operating   system for iPhones, it has a shot at controlling the platform on   which every other company will have to build AR   hardware. ” ”   Imagine a future   world in which, instead of Apple or   Google, Facebook set the ground rules about what apps can and   can’t do on its platform. Like Apple’s App Store, Facebook could   take a cut of all transactions that occur within its AR platform.   And Facebook would know more about its billions of users  —   what   they’re seeing and interacting with in the real world  —   than any   company in history. ” ’  ’ ”   Facebook would certainly like to own both the dominant hardware   and the software in a truly AR world, but if it can’t crack the   hardware, it wants to at least be one of the few winning software   providers. ” ’   ”If we can build an interesting business building hardware,   that’s great,” Facebook chief technology officer Mike Schroepfer   recently told Business Insider about the company’’s AR ambitions.   ”But if that doesn’t work and it just creates an ecosystem and we   have an awesome network to run on top of it, that’s great too.” ’ ’   But as Apple, Microsoft, Magic Leap, and others are racing to   make consumer AR a reality, the competition is already fierce.   And with its hundreds of billions of dollars and years of   hardware expertise, Apple already looks best poised to win the AR   hardware race. ’ ”   That’s why Facebook is firing on all of its AR cylinders now,   even when it says . The   existential threat to Facebook’s business is that if it doesn’t   manage to build the dominant AR platform of the future, it runs   the risk of repeating its history with mobile phones all over   again. ” ’To understand why Mark Zuckerberg is obsessed. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’