’  ’ ’   PARIS (Reuters)   Centrist Emmanuel Macron, running on the ”En   Marche!” platform, and   National Front leader Marine Le   Pen are set to face each other in a May 7 runoff for the French   presidency after coming first and second in Sunday’’s first round   of voting, according to multiple projections. ’ ’   The result makes Macron most likely to become the next   president of France.  ’ ’   Though Macron, 39, is a comparative political novice who has   never held elected office, opinion polls in the   to the   ballot have consistently seen him easily winning the final clash   against the    Le Pen. ’ ”   Sunday’s outcome spells disaster for the two mainstream groupings   that have dominated French politics for 60 years, and also   reduces the prospect of an   shock on the scale   of Britain’s vote last June to quit the EU and the election of   Donald Trump as U. S. president. ” ’   The euro currency was quoted higher immediately after the first   projections were issued, with banks quoting the US dollar at   around $1. 092 versus $1. 072 on Friday evening, according to   Reuters data. ’ ’   In a race that was too close to call up to the last minute,   Macron, a   Union   and economy minister who   founded his own party only a year ago, was projected to get 24   percent of the   vote by the pollster Harris, and 23. 7   percent by Elabe. ’ ’   Le Pen, leader of the   and   National   Front, was given 22 percent by both institutes. At least three   further pollsters all projected broadly similar results. ’ ”   Macron’s supporters, gathered at a Paris conference center burst   into singing the national anthem, the Marseillaise, a few seconds   after results came through. Many were under 25, reflecting some   of the appeal of a man aiming to become France’s youngest head of   state since Napoleon. ” ”   Le Pen, who is herself bidding to make history as France’s first   female president, follows in the footsteps of her father, who   founded the National Front and reached the second round of the   presidential election in 2002. ” ’     Le Pen was ultimately crushed when voters from right   and left rallied around the conservative Jacques Chirac in order   to keep out a party whose     views they   considered unpalatably xenophobic. ’ ”   His daughter has done much to soften her party’s image, and found   widespread support among young voters by pitching herself as an     defender of French workers and French   interests. ” ’  ’ ’   ”The great issue in this election is the rampant globalization   that is putting our civilization at risk,” she declared in her   first word after results came through. ’ ’   Nevertheless, Le Pen seems destined to suffer a similar fate to   her father. ’ ’   Defeated Socialist candidate Benoit Hamon, Socialist Prime   Minister Bernard Cazeneuve and defeated   candidate   Francois Fillon all urged voters to rally behind Macron in the   second round. ’ ’   Harris gave both Fillon, badly damaged by allegations that his   wife had been paid from the public purse for work she did not do,   and   contender   Melenchon 20 percent in the first   round. ’ ’   ”This defeat is mine and it is for me and me alone to bear it,”   Fillon told a news conference, adding that he would now vote for   Macron. ’ ’   The result will mean a   between politicians with   radically contrasting economic visions for a country whose   economy lags that of its neighbors and where a quarter of young   people are unemployed. ’ ’   Macron favors gradual deregulation measures that will be welcomed   by global financial markets, as well as cuts in state expenditure   and the civil service. Le Pen wants to print money to finance   expanded welfare payments and tax cuts, ditch the euro currency   and possibly pull out of the EU. ’ ”   Whatever the outcome on May 7, it will mean a redrawing of   France’s political landscape, which has been dominated for 60   years by mainstream groupings from the   and     both of whose candidates faded. ” ’   Macron ally Gerard Collomb said the defeat of the mainstream     Socialists and the   Republicans showed a   ”deep malaise” in French society. ’ ”   The final outcome on May 7 will influence France’s standing in   Europe and the world as a     member of   the U. N. Security Council and founding member of the organization   that transformed itself into the European Union.  ” ’   (Additional reporting by Sudip   Bate Felix, Michaela   Cabrera, Michel Rose, Geert De Clercq, Mathieu Rosemain, John   Irish, Andrew Callus, Sarah White in Paris, and Ilze Filks in    ; Writing by Kevin Liffey; Editing by Richard   Balmforth) ’ ’Projections say the winners are Macron on 24%. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’