’  ’ ’   A  found that the   terrorist group ISIS has lost most of the territory it once   controlled and that its   ”caliphate” is now ”on a   path to collapse.” ’ ’   The report found that ISIS, also known as the Islamic State, ”has   lost substantial control of territory and people since 2014 in   Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Libya and Nigeria,” putting it in   danger of losing its state, which it calls a ”caliphate,”   altogether. ’ ”   But control over territory and people isn’t the only thing that   makes ISIS a formidable terrorist organization. The group has   recently been focusing heavily on external attacks, some of which   are mounted without any direct orders from ISIS leaders. ” ’   ISIS often issues calls for Westerners to launch attacks in   their home countries, and in its online publications the group   has included tips for picking weapons and targets. ’ ’   ”The Islamic State’’s territorial losses indicate that it is   evolving from an insurgent group to a clandestine organization   that directs and inspires   terrorist attacks,” Seth   Jones, the lead author on the report and director of the   International Security and Defense Policy Center at RAND, said in   a statement. ”Despite its recent challenges, the Islamic State   still seeks to expand its power and influence, including through   social media and the Internet.” ’ ’   Still, the loss of territory is significant. ISIS has made much   of its money through  the populations it controlled and   selling oil from territory it held. ’ ’   ISIS rampaged across the Middle East in 2014, seizing large   swaths of territory in Iraq and Syria. But it has since lost much   of that territory as Western countries have waged war against it. ’ ’   In its report, Rand outlined the territorial losses ISIS has   suffered since 2014: ’ ’  ’ ’   ISIS has lost 57% of its territory and 73% of the people once   under its control, according to Rand. At its peak in 2014, ISIS   controlled nearly 30, 000 square miles of territory   containing a population of about 11 million. ’ ’   ISIS also controls territory outside its base in Iraq and Syria  —     it has seized small parts of Libya and Afghanistan, for instance    —   but its holdings outside of its main areas of operation are   limited. ’ ’   Aside from territory, ISIS also seems to be losing hearts and   minds. Rand’’s report suggested polling data indicates   ”declining support across the Muslim world for the Islamic State   and its ideology.” ’ ’   The group still has enough supporters, though, to be considered a   serious threat to countries in the Middle East and around   the world. Rand also found that ISIS attacks have shot   up in recent months. The data suggests that ISIS ”has begun to   move from an insurgent group that controls territory to a   clandestine terrorist group that conducts attacks against   government officials and noncombatants,” the report said. This is   the model of ISIS’’ predecessor organization, Al Qaeda. ’ ’  ’ ’   Though it seems that the   campaign against ISIS has   been successful so far, ISIS remains a long way from   extinction. ’ ’   ”Fully eliminating the threat the Islamic State poses will   require continued American leadership for years to come,” the   report said. ”. .. In the short and perhaps medium terms,   this contraction in territorial control may actually lead to more   terrorist attacks across the globe. But over time, the group’’s   capacity to recruit, fund, organize, and inspire such attacks   will likely diminish, and its brand may lose its allure if the   Islamic State no longer controls territory in Iraq and Syria.” ’ ’A new report from the Rand. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’