’  ’ ”   The New York Times  on Saturday   about FBI Director James Comey’s decision to revisit the   investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails 11 days before the   presidential election, offering fresh insight into Comey’s   thinking and sparking a new debate over whether he cost Clinton   the election. ” ’   Nate Silver, the editor in chief of FiveThirtyEight, said The   Times’’ report showed ”the case that the Comey letter  —   or the   media’’s handling of the letter  —   cost Clinton the election is   painfully obvious.” ’ ’   On October 28, Comey wrote a letter to Congress saying that the   FBI had learned of ”the existence of emails that appear to be   pertinent” to the investigation into Clinton’’s email server,   which had originally been closed in July. The emails were   discovered as the FBI was examining former Rep. Anthony Weiner’’s   laptop, which he shared with his wife, Huma Abedin, a top Clinton   aide. (Weiner had been accused of exchanging sexually explicit   texts with a    girl.) ’ ’   The letter was promptly released by Utah Rep. Jason Chaffetz, the   chair of the House Oversight Committee, and dominated the   headlines of major media outlets in the days leading up to the   election.  and Clinton’’s poll   numbers dropped by 3 points over subsequent days, Silver pointed   out  —   a   slip political scientists attributed to ”the   Comey effect,”according to The Times. ’ ’   Then, on Election Day, Clinton lost Florida, Wisconsin,   Pennsylvania, and Michigan  —   each by less than 1 percentage   point. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tIt’s a fairly    case. But the media’s election   have mostly ignored it because it implicates the media’s judgement.  ” ’   ”Not complicated,” Silver said. ”Clinton was up by a lot. Comey   letter hits. Treated as massive story. Suddenly she was up by     . She loses narrowly.” ’ ”   Silver received pushback for concluding that Comey’s letter  —     reportedly the result of weeks of deliberation over how the FBI   should proceed after it uncovered the new emails in early October    —   was so consequential. ” ’   Many say Clinton’’s loss was her own fault and she has been using   the Comey letter as a scapegoat. (Her campaign has .)   Journalist Ron Fournier, for example, shot back at Silver’’s   argument with a link to a piece he wrote in July 2016 titled   ”Hillary Has No One to Blame But Herself.” ’ ’   ”When I wrote this column, you were still predicting a Clinton   win,” Fournier told Silver. ”Nice work.” ’ ’   The    quickly descended into a feud over ”how   probability works,” as Silver put it. But few doubt that Comey’’s   revelation had a negative effect on Clinton’’s candidacy, even if   it was not enough to swing the election at the last minute. ’ ”   Whereas many Clinton backers felt vindicated by Comey’s   revelation last month that the FBI had been investigating Trump   and his associates for their ties to Russia since last July,   others were outraged that Comey broke FBI protocol to disclose   the existence of new Clinton emails just days before the   election, but didn’t tell voters that Trump was also under FBI   investigation until four months after the election. ” ’   The New York Times reported Comey desired to shield the FBI from   what he perceived to be   General Loretta Lynch’’s   bias toward Clinton. It prompted him to handle the Clinton and   Trump investigations ”in starkly different ways.” ’ ”   The different approaches didn’t go unnoticed. Democratic Rep.   Jerrold Nadler confronted Comey about the appearance of a double   standard during a congressional hearing, after     Minority Leader Harry Reid, who had been briefed on aspects of   the   probe by CIA Director John Brennan, wrote a   letter to Comey imploring him to go public. ” ’   “After you investigated Secretary Clinton, you made a decision to   explain publicly who you interviewed and why,” Nadler said to   Comey. “You also disclosed documents, including those from those   interviews. Why shouldn’t the American people have the same level   of information about your investigation with those associated   with Mr. Trump?” ’ ’   According to The Times, ”Mr. Comey never considered disclosing   the case. Doing so, he believed, would have undermined an active   investigation and cast public suspicion on people the FBI could   not be sure were implicated.” ’ ’The New York Times published a lengthy. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’