’  ’ ”   Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr gave a surprise press   conference on Sunday, announcing he’s unsure of his status going   forward in the postseason. ” ”   Kerr missed the Warriors’ Game 3 win over the Portland Trail   Blazers on Saturday, with assistant coach Mike Brown coaching the   team in his absence. ” ”   On Sunday, Kerr announced his absence was related to lasting pain   from back surgery he had in 2015, shortly after the Warriors’   championship win over the Cleveland Cavaliers. ” ’   ”This past week, for whatever reason, things got worse, my   symptoms got worse, and I was not able to coach” said Kerr, who   missed the start of the   season due to chronic pain as a   result of the surgery. ”The last few days have been difficult . ..   I was uncomfortable at practice the other day, and with things   getting worse, I just made the decision I couldn’’t coach.” ’ ”   Kerr said he’s consulting doctors and hoping for improvement, but   said he will not return to the sidelines unless he’s feeling   better. ” ’   ”If I can get some improvement, I’’ll get back on the sidelines,   but I’’m not gonna do that unless I know I can help the team,”   Kerr said. He will not coach Game 4, he added. ’ ’   While Kerr wouldn’’t specify the recent afflictions, saying only   that he felt ”discomfort and pain,” he did say that he would tell   anyone suffering from back pain not to get back surgery. ’ ’   Kerr has only briefly opened up about the aftermath of his   surgery in the past.  in 2016 that Kerr was   suffering from debilitating head aches after the surgery, which   held him out of the beginning of last season. Kerr made headlines   late in 2016 when he said  to try to relieve   the pain. ’ ’   For now, the Warriors may be without their head coach for the   remainder of the season, which could matter down the line if they   continue to advance deep into the postseason. ’ ”   Watch Kerr’s comments below: ” ’ ’ ’Steve Kerr updates his health status, says symptoms have worsened, he will not coach tomorrow and status unknown beyond ’ ’Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’