’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s reversal on labeling China as a currency   manipulator, as well as an overall softer stance toward a country   he routinely lambasted on the campaign trail, have raised new   questions about the role of a top member of his Cabinet. ” ’   Peter Navarro,  White House   National Trade Council and a top economic adviser to Trump, was   believed to be quite possibly the most influential member of the   West Wing when it came to matters of international trade,   particularly involving the Chinese. ’ ’   An outspoken China hawk, the   authored books such as   ”Death by China” and ”Crouching Tiger: What China’’s Militarism   Means for the World.” He advocated for a much more aggressive   stance against the Asian superpower. He believed, much as Trump   expressed along the campaign trail, that China was   responsible for a glut of manufacturing jobs exiting the US,   pointing to China’’s manipulating of its currency as a top reason   for why that was such. ’ ”   In the White House,  Trump’s  in alliance with Commerce   Secretary Wilbur Ross and US Trade Representative nominee Robert   Lighthizer. Together, advocates believed they would wage a   major economic battle against China. Navarro already believes   that China is engaged in an economic war against the US. ” ”   But Trump’s  sent a shockwave   to watchers of the   relationship and made them   wonder if Navarro’s influence has been limited. ” ’’ ”   And the comments made it appear as if Navarro’s influence was   being limited. ” ’   ”What is left for him to do?” one top Republican operative   on matters of trade told Business Insider of Navarro. The   operative said it’’s becoming clear that head of the National   Economic Council and   Sachs executive Gary Cohn is   exerting increasing influence in the trade policy realm. ’ ’   The operative suggested that while Trump’’s comments will be   viewed as a ”betrayal” to his trade supporters, the move against   labeling China as a currency manipulator makes sense  —   as trade,   he said, is the ”only” negotiating tool Trump has it his disposal   regarding China and North Korea. ’ ’   A White House official disputed that Navarro and the council he   was tasked with leading are being stifled. ’ ’   ”Peter has always been and continues to be an integral part of   the president’’s trade team, which is dedicated to fulfilling   the president’’s promise to the American people that he would no   longer allow this country to be taken advantage of by unfair   trade deals,” the official told Business Insider. ”Peter and the   NTC particularly focus on identifying the unique problems that   have created an uneven playing field for American companies doing   business around the world.” ’ ’   The appearance of Navarro’’s profile becoming more limited   comes at a time when an apparent power struggle is   playing out in the White House. The ”Goldman Sachs” wing of New   York businesspeople  —   Cohn, senior adviser Jared Kushner,   assistant Ivanka Trump, and Deputy National Security Adviser Dina   Powell  —   has sparred with the more populist, nationalist   wing headed by chief strategist Steve Bannon. Navarro’’s views on   trade fit in more with the Bannon wing, which has  at the start of the Trump presidency. ’ ’   Navarro was brought into the Trump orbit by Kushner, who   contacted the professor after browsing Amazon for a book that   seemed to match Trump’’s views on China. Trump has commissioned   Kushner to find someone to speak with on China, and Kushner   stumbled upon ”Death by China.” In announcing Navarro’’s hiring,   Trump said in a statement that he ”read one of Peter’’s books on   America’’s trade problems years ago and was impressed by the   clarity of his arguments and thoroughness of his research.” ’ ’   ”He has presciently documented the harms inflicted by globalism   on American workers and laid out a path forward to restore our   middle class,” Trump’’s statement said. ”He will fulfill an   essential role in my administration as a trade adviser.” ’ ”   Lee Branstetter, a Carnegie Mellon University professor who   served on President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers   from 2011 through 2012 who is opposed to many of the trade   proposals championed by both Trump and Navarro, said Navarro   hasn’t appeared to have had much say in trade policy thus far. ” ’   ”It certainly does seem to be the case that Peter Navarro is not   going to have the kind of impact on trade policy that we might   have expected based on the campaign rhetoric, or even what Peter   himself might have expected when he accepted this position to   head this new council within the White House,” Branstetter said. ’ ”   But Branstetter said this could stem from how little power   Navarro’s council has among the many White House agencies. ” ’   ”Lots of administrations start lots of little councils inside the   White House to address various constituencies, and many of them   are quite small and quite under resourced,” he said. ”And in the   interagency game of jockeying for power and influence, these   little councils can also be at a grave disadvantage, relative to   the big agencies and the more established consultative councils   within the White House, like a National Security Council or a   National Economic Council.” ’ ’   ”I worked for a White House that was very different from the   Trump White House, but this phenomenon of lots of little councils   that weren’’t necessarily doing a whole heck of a lot was   certainly a feature of the Obama administration and probably in   all administrations that we see today,” he continued. ”It’’s easy   to set something up in order to trumpet its importance, to signal   to a key constituency, but it doesn’’t really do much beyond   that.” ’ ’ the council’’s responsibilities were detailed as   advising the president on trade negotiations, coordinating with   other agencies, and assisting unemployed workers. The council was   also designed to lead Trump’’s ”Buy America, Hire America”   program, aimed at boosting jobs in infrastructure and defense   sectors. ’ ’   And just days after Trump’’s surprising comments on Chinese   currency manipulation, he signed his ”Buy American, Hire   American” executive order, setting in motion one of Navarro’’s   largest responsibilities. The adviser quickly made  aspects of the   order, and the White House pushed out a Navarro statement   praising the order. ’ ”   But with a number of Trump’s promised trade initiatives being   slow to get off the ground  —   leaving some to fear they may not be   happening  —   Navarro’s influence is increasingly under question. ” ”   Lori Wallach, head of Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch, a   group generally in favor of the trade reforms proposed by Trump,   told Business Insider that Navarro is attempting to help   implement the Trump trade agenda with a number of less   protectionist members of the Cabinet seemingly in   opposition. And as Lighthizer has still not   been confirmed  —   meaning that, additionally, most of the top   political positions in the US trade representative’s office   are still yet to be filled  —   she said Navarro has   been forced to go at it without much help. ” ’   ”You’’ve got the one person in the saddle who doesn’’t have   structurally, [the staff,] or experience wise, the chops, to get   into a huge Washington policy war,” she said. ”As a result, first   there is the fight over the ideology, and then the second issue   is not having the hands on deck to do the implementation.” ’ ’   ”While a bunch of this initial skirmish was occurring, it was   Peter Navarro, who is obviously a very bright and committed guy,   but is the one guy who is not cabinet level . .. so he doesn’’t   even have the capacity to be in most of those meetings,” she   added. ”He is someone who is the least sort of political   Machiavellian in the sense that he’’s never played in this   setting.” ’ ’ This post has been updated to include comment from the White   House. ’ ”President Donald Trump’s reversal on labeling. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’