’  ’ ”   When you send a  after a job interview, it’s helpful to   reiterate just how much you want  —   and would be perfect for  —   the   job. ” ”   But showing is even better than telling. In other words,   show the interviewer you’d knock it out of the park if   you got the position, rather than just telling the   person and hoping he or she believes you. ” ”   It’s not especially complicated to do, at least according to   Alexandra Cavoulacos and Kathryn Minshew. Cavoulacos and Minshew   are the cofounders, and COO and CEO, respectively, of the     and   site . ” ’   In their new book, ”,” Cavoulacos and Minshew recommend   submitting a sample project with your job application. More   specifically, follow up on one of the points you   addressed in your interview and prepare some research related to   that topic. ’ ”   Some companies require that job applicants do something like this    —   I’ve personally completed a mandatory writing or edit test for   every editorial position I’ve applied for. In that case, you   probably don’t need to do the extra work. ” ’’ ”   But in many other situations  —   especially when you’ve had   multiple interviews with the company and you have some context  —     Cavoulacos and Minshew say submitting a sample project can give   you a leg up on other applicants. ” ’   Business Insider spoke with Cavoulacos, who gave an example of a   specific project you could send. ’ ”   Say you met with a few people at the organization and they talked   about the challenges they’re facing. You could use comScore to do   some research on their competitors and put together a graph with   relevant statistics. ” ’   In your email, you could say: ”I think there’’s opportunity; I’’d   love to talk about it.” ’ ’   ”That shows initiative,” Cavoulacos told Business Insider. ”If   you’’re picking the right competitors, it shows judgment.” ’ ’   In the book, the authors give another example: ”Let’’s say you’’re   applying for a role as a social media manager  —   why not pull   together a few ideas for an Instagram campaign to grow the   company’’s brand?” ’ ”   Submitting a sample project can be especially useful, the authors   write, if your experience isn’t directly related to the role   you’re applying for. ” ”   Cavoulacos and Minshew’s insights recall something Stanford   psychologist . Personal finance author Ramit Sethi   said Fogg told him about one specific strategy for getting hired   at Google: ” ’   Sethi remembered Fogg saying, ”How long can they ignore you?” ’ ”   Of course, Cavoulacos noted, you shouldn’t be spending hours on   this sample project. The point is to show you’re proactive,   competent, and enthusiastic  —   a winning combination. ” ’When you send a   email after a job. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’