’  ’ ’   The Trump administration is rapidly losing steam in its fight to   crack down on   ”sanctuary cities.” ’ ’ Trump signed Jan. 25 threatening   to withhold federal grant money from jurisdictions that refused   to comply with federal immigration law.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Yet just hours before the injunction was granted, Attorney   General Jeff Sessions met with a handful of mayors and reportedly   assured them that the definition of a ”sanctuary city” is so   narrow that most cities are not at risk of losing federal funds   anyway. ’ ’   ”Based on what we’’ve heard, I don’’t know of any cities that are   out of compliance with that at the moment,” New Orleans Mayor   Mitch Landrieu said after the meeting, according to . ’ ’   One of the issues at the root of the clash between the federal   government and localities across the country is the   definition of a ”sanctuary city.” ’ ’   Although Trump and Sessions have complained repeatedly about   jurisdictions that decline to honor federal requests to detain   suspected unauthorized immigrants, Sessions reportedly told the   mayors on Tuesday that compliance with those requests is not   included in the administration’’s understanding of what a   ”sanctuary city” is. ’ ”   Instead, the Trump administration’s only working definition   refers to    of the federal code, which states that local officials cannot   interfere in communications with federal officials regarding   individuals’ citizenship or immigration statuses. ” ’   But Sessions and Trump have attempted to persuade localities to   go beyond mere compliance with Section 1373 and start honoring   federal detainer requests, arguing that despite immigration   enforcement being a federal responsibility,  are needed to assist in detaining   and deporting unauthorized immigrants accused of crimes. ’ ’   ”People in this country illegally who have committed serious   crimes like domestic violence, child abuse, and rape are often   released back onto our streets. That makes us less safe,”    earlier this month at a speech to the   International Association of Chiefs of Police. ’ ”   Mayors and law enforcement officials across the country have shot   back that the detainer requests are merely requests  —   they   are not legally binding documents like a   warrant. In   fact, federal courts have ruled in the past that honoring   detainer requests without warrants can violate detainees’ Fourth   Amendment rights.  ” ’  ’ ’   The meeting between Sessions and the mayors on Tuesday is just   the latest development in a contentious battle between the Trump   administration and big cities across the country. Last Friday,   the Justice Department sent letters to nine jurisdictions   ordering them to prove compliance with Section 1373 before June   30 or risk losing certain grants for the fiscal year 2016. ’ ”   As many of those jurisdictions have publicly said they already   follow Section 1373, it’s unclear which  —   if any  —     localities are actually violating the law. But another question   raised by mayors on Tuesday is how localities should provide   proof they are compliant with the law. It’s unclear whether   information such as fingerprints shared with the FBI and the   Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency will be enough to   satisfy the Trump administration. ” ’   ”We’’ve got more clarity than we’’ve ever received, but we also   have other thorny issues to sort through,” Providence Mayor Jorge   Elorza said after the meeting, . ’ ’ that the Justice Department is   pleased that the mayors assured him they wanted to comply with   the law, but that obeying Section 1373 was only the bare minimum. ’ ’   ”The vast majority of state and local jurisdictions are in   compliance and want to work with federal law enforcement to keep   their communities safe,” Sessions said. ’ ’   ”Of course, compliance with 8 USC 1373 is the minimum the   American people should expect. We want all jurisdictions to   enthusiastically support the laws of the United States that   require the removal of criminal aliens, as many jurisdictions   already do.” ’ ”   But legal experts have speculated since it was first announced in   January that by continuing to pressure jurisdictions on   immigration detainers at the same time as insisting that cities   follow a law they’re already following, the Trump administration   is attempting to conflate two separate issues and confuse   the public. ” ’   ”What it clearly doesn’’t impact  —   Section 1373  —   is the decision   to detain or not detain somebody at the request of the federal   government,” Christopher Lasch,   in March. He called the Trump   administration’’s actions on sanctuary jurisdictions a   ”sleight of hand.” ’ ’   ”It is the detainer compliance that’’s what’’s really bothering the   administration, and they’’re using 1373 as this ruse to try to   convince people that sanctuary jurisdictions are somehow flouting   federal law.” ’ ’The Trump administration is rapidly losing. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’