’  ’ ”   A hacking group linked by cybersecurity experts to Russia’s   military intelligence apparatus has begun taking aim at France’s   centrist presidential candidate, Emmanuel Macron, the   cybersecurity firm  said in a report published on   Tuesday. ” ’   On March 15, the group  —   known as Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sednit,   APT28, Sofacy, or STRONTIUM  —   began registering domain names   like ”  . fr” and ” ’ ’ upped the   sophistication of its cyber attacks,” said Greg Martin, the   CEO of cybersecurity firm JASK. ”They’’re taking advantage of   vulnerabilities in   email services like Gmail to trick   people into downloading fake applications, and compromising   their inboxes without even having to steal   a password.”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The cat got out of the bag in terms of the tools used in the DNC   cyberattacks, so Fancy Bear upped the ante this time around,”   Martin said.  ’ ”   Fancy Bear’s cyberespionage activities date back to the early   2000s, when hackers would implant malware on computers to record   users’ keystrokes and monitor the sites they visited. That   information would then be sent back to the malware creators in   Russia, according to Trend Micro. ” ”   As the firm said in its report, however, the hacking team’s   days of    spying appear to be over.   Spanning the past two years, the group has taken on bigger   targets than ever before  —   including US, French, and German   political parties and candidates  —   by deploying phishing   attacks, stealing information, and then weaponizing it to   manipulate events and public opinion. ” ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   ”Using an IP address or a particular code to trace a hack back to   a particular actor  —   those things, on their own, are   inconclusive,” Volovich said in an interview. ”But if you can   correlate multiple sources of data in the attribution [of a   hack] that adds a lot more credibility.” ’ ’   According to Trend Micro, while Pawn Storm ”makes good use of   webhosting providers in Western countries that offer privacy to   their customers,” the group still ”has a clear preference for   some hosting providers, DNS service providers, and domain   registrars.” By monitoring those service providers, the firm   said, much of the group’’s infrastructure can be spotted and   caught early. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In December, the cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike revealed   that t ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The Russians would have been similarly motivated to compromise   the US   Agency  —   which, along with the World     Agency, investigated Russia’s conspiracy to   corrupt its   system and ultimately banned dozens of   Russian athletes from last summer’s Olympics in Rio de   Janeiro.  ” ’  ’ ’   In October, a Russian plot to overthrow Montenegro’’s     president  —   who has been negotiating the country’’s accession into   NATO  —   was foiled at the last minute. State websites have since   been targeted by two waves of cyberattacks. The Montenegrin   government said the attacks were ”planned and synchronized”   but stopped short of attributing them to Moscow. ’ ”   The Russian government’s motivations to target France’s Macron,   meanwhile, have parallels to their attacks on the US election   last year: a desire to boost the more nationalistic,     underdog (Marine Le Pen in France and   President Donald Trump in the US) and undermine the more   globalist, hawkish frontrunner (Macron in France and Clinton in   the US). ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’A hacking group linked by cybersecurity experts. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’