’  ’ ”   His headline is a little hyperbolic, but I want to associate   myself with Matt Yglesias’ argument for why former President   Barack Obama should, in the best interest of the     political movement he once led,  he will   receive from the investment bank Cantor Fitzgerald. ” ’   I am honestly perplexed by the vigor with which some liberals   defend the prerogative of   like Obama, and even   prospective officeholders like the Hillary Clinton of 2013 and   2014, to collect such fees from interest groups with   business before the government. ’ ’   The argument against these fees, and against   cashouts   more broadly, is simple: If public officials are expected to make   a lot of money from certain interest groups after they leave   office, some voters will reasonably fear that those officials   will go easy on those groups while in office, so as not to   alienate those groups. ’ ’   My concern is only in part about ”optics.” It is also   substantive: The expectation of a future payday could weigh, even   unconsciously, on the way politicians treat interest groups   they may expect to receive payments from in the future. A norm   that expects politicians to forswear such payments, even after   they leave office, would make those politicians less likely to be   swayed by their own financial interests when they make policy. ’ ’   The appearance of conflict of interest is a particular political   danger for liberals, since a promise to protect ordinary   people against moneyed interests is at the core of their   political appeal. Republicans are forthrightly aligned with big   business. Democrats should not vilify business, but they   need voters to believe them when they say they will stand up to   business interests when doing so serves the public. ’ ’’ ’   Obama spokesman Eric Schultz pushed back on those concerns   by  Obama’’s implementation of   Wall Street reform despite raising ”more money from Wall Street   than any candidate in history” in 2008. ’ ’   Obviously buckraking is most problematic if you do it while   intending to seek office again  —    as Hillary Clinton and   former Indiana Sen. Evan Bayh learned the hard way in 2016. But   Yglesias notes that in Britain, Tony Blair’’s   business   activities have fostered cynicism about ”New Labour” and   damaged the political movement he left behind. ’ ”   The concern is not that Obama receiving such a fee will influence   Obama’s future policy decisions about Wall Street (he won’t make   any) but that if he goes around collecting such fees, he will   make voters more wary of the intentions of future     politicians who run in his mold, as happened with Blair.   Bernie Sanders’ strong appeal in the 2016 primaries, which   wasn’t limited to   voters, shows that many   voters are concerned about such matters. ” ’   Many of the responses to the argument against this speaking fee   have been, frankly, childish. They miss the point of having   ethical standards and avoiding conflicts of interest. ’ ’   ”Other people do it, why shouldn’’t Obama?” is an argument   your   teacher would not have taken seriously. It is   not good enough for Democrats simply to exceed the ethical   standards of the Trumps or appear less conflicted than the   Bushes. ’ ’   You follow high ethical standards and avoid the appearance of   conflicts of interest because, in the long run, it is good for   your political movement. It demonstrates to voters that you put   their interests first and are not swayed by financial concerns.   It reduces the likelihood of embarrassing scandal. ’ ’   Virtue, in this area, is its own reward. ’ ”   And the cost of a norm against high speaking fees from business   is essentially zero. If you’re not a prominent politician, you   lose literally nothing by cutting off one of such   politicians’ several available sources for     income. ” ’   Yes, Obama would have to give up some income. But since he and   Michelle have reportedly reached a $65 million book deal (and   congratulations to them for it) they will be very wealthy anyway. ’ ’   I have been baffled by the extent to which liberal political   concern is directed to whether their leaders are being   treated fairly, on a personal level. ”Is it fair for Obama to   have to forego this fee?” is a question that misses the point. ’ ”   Politics isn’t supposed to be about the interests of powerful   people like Obama. It’s supposed to be about the regular people   who support the movements that people like Obama lead. Our   leaders are supposed to serve us, and it is appropriate to ask   them to make sacrifices in the broader public interest, including   sacrifices of income. ” ’   Obama is a private citizen and he certainly has a legal   right to take speaking fees from powerful interests if he wants.   But since he has expressed his intention to continue engaging   positively in the discourse in an effort to bolster the ideas he   sought to promote in office, I would expect him to care whether   his actions serve or undermine the interests of the political   movement he used to lead. ’ ’   If Obama announced an intention to decline speaking fees from   businesses in the future, he could help set a new norm against   political buckraking that would benefit the movement he used to   lead. ’ ’His headline is a little hyperbolic, but. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’