’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s administration has rolled out a tax plan   that proposes to slash corporate taxes, tweak personal tax rates,   and eliminate most deductions used by wealthier Americans. ” ’   The plan was announced on Wednesday by Treasury Secretary Steven   Mnuchin and National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn during a   White House press briefing. ’ ’   While the plan contains broad outlines rather than firm   legislative text, Mnuchin and Cohn said the plan would include   ”the biggest tax cut” in US history, echoing statements made by   Trump. ’ ’   While Mnuchin did not apply a deadline to passing a tax plan, he   told an event hosted by The Hill earlier on Wednesday that the   White House and congressional leaders wanted to pass a bill ”as   quickly as possible.” Mnuchin and Cohn said they would continue   to be in constant conversation with congressional leaders to   formulate concrete legislation. ’ ’   The proposal laid out Wednesday did not include a large number of   key details, including the income levels associated with a new     tax system, the tax rate for a     repatriation of corporate profits held overseas, and others. ’ ’   Here are the key points of the plan as it was released: ’ ”   Here’s a   summary of the tax plan provided to reporters   during a White House briefing: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tThe  tax plan:  ’ ”   Mnuchin said the bill would be paid for through economic growth,   signaling an interpretation of the plan’s effects through dynamic   scoring  —   a method that uses assumptions that gross domestic   product will grow because of increased spending to make up   reduced revenue. The Treasury secretary told reporters Wednesday   that he expected sustained annual GDP growth of 3%. ” ’   In response to the Trump plan, Republican congressional leaders   released a statement praising the plan and saying it would ”serve   as critical guideposts for Congress and the Administration” in   negotiations. ’ ”   Here’s the full statement from House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate   Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Ways & Means Committee   Chairman Kevin Brady, and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin   Hatch: ” ”President Donald Trump’s administration has. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’