Presidential campaigns are complicated. Confused by the current one? Here’s a look back at some of our most insightful journalism over the last year. The New York Times analyzed Donald J. Trump’s public comments for one week last December  —   95, 000 words in all  —   to understand his appeal to voters. There were powerful patterns, including a repetitive use of harsh language and warnings that were dark and vague, like “Something bad is happening. ” What issues have motivated supporters of Hillary Clinton and Mr. Trump? The Times tracked exit polls from the primaries and caucuses that showed the issues that voters cared about most, including immigration, national security and a desire for change. The Times built an interactive delegate calculator that let readers simulate how each state primary might unfold. Using the latest polls and delegate rules specific to each state, we mapped out how each of the candidates might win  —   and how Mr. Trump eventually did. The Times built a similar interactive to show the many ways the Republican and Democratic nominating contests could unfold after Super Tuesday, with a special focus on the possible paths to victory available to candidates who were not the increasingly dominant Mr. Trump or Mrs. Clinton. Senator Bernie Sanders may not have become the Democratic nominee for president, but he did cut through American pop culture, inspiring everything from Bernie Sanders costumes for infants to, of course, a slew of viral videos and social media memes. Mr. Trump has defied conventions of civility that long governed discussions of race in America, opening the door to greater assertions of white   identity and resentment in the process. Experts say his campaign has mirrored  —   and perhaps contributed to  —   the rising number of Americans who say race relations are getting worse. Many analysts thought Mr. Trump’s presidential bid was a long shot because he had little support from nonwhite voters, but a Times analysis found that a campaign reliant on white voters could win. The Upshot found that 2012 exit polls did not count millions of white   voters who had gone to the polls on Election Day. It also provided an interactive that allowed readers to simulate the turnout of various demographic groups. Mrs. Clinton was the first woman to win a major party’s nomination for president, 180 years after a nonwhite man was elected to a state Legislature for the first time. Here is a look back at other major electoral milestones for women, gay and transgender people, and racial minorities. Just 158 families contributed almost half of the donations used to fund the first phase of the presidential campaign. The Times found broad similarities among them: They were mostly rich, white, older men who made their fortunes in finance and energy, lived in the same handful of wealthy areas, and donated to Republican candidates. A    black male Trump supporter had an outsize impact in a major national poll, shifting it to show   support for Mr. Trump among black voters. It happened because polls weight the results of respondents from different demographic groups to paint a picture of the country at large. Sometimes they overemphasize particularly underrepresented voters, like    black male Trump voters. Politicians stretch the truth all the time, but Mr. Trump is in a league of his own. The Times examined a week of his falsehoods and found a clear pattern: Almost all bolstered a   narrative that depicted him as a heroic savior for a troubled country. A majority of New York City primary voters chose Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump. The Times published an interactive map that showed how each neighborhood and block in the city voted, from Staten Island landslides for Mr. Trump to one Upper West Side precinct where Mr. Sanders received no votes (and Mrs. Clinton got one). Polls are influential in a presidential campaign, but their results often depend as much on the pollsters as on the science of survey methodology. That’s because the results depend on the poll’s design, which depends on human decisions made behind the scenes. To demonstrate that, The Times gave the same raw data to four good pollsters, who came up with four different electoral results from the numbers. The Upshot produced, and mapped,   analyses of   poll results, like this deep dive into a Florida poll at the end of October. Readers can scroll through to see how each candidate fared with voters from different backgrounds and demographic groups, as well as   members of their own party. When you vote in a Republican primary, you are actually voting for delegates who will then cast their ballots for the candidates you have chosen. But sometimes they are free to vote however they please. How does someone become a Republican delegate? The Times explained this process.