’  ’ ”   South Korea’s  that   the USS Michigan, a submarine that sometimes moves special forces   like US Navy SEALs, would join the USS Carl Vinson aircraft   carrier strike group off of North Korea’s coast. ” ’   Sure enough, on Tuesday, the Michigan, a       submarine, appeared in Busan, South Korea,   . ’ ’   But  that SEAL   Team 6 was training alongside South Korea’’s version of the SEALs   for ”incapacitating” North Korea’’s leader, Kim Jong Un. ’ ”   The US Navy has refused to comment on the movements of SEAL Team   6, the group of Navy SEALs who took out Osama bin Laden in 2011,   to Business Insider, and it normally doesn’t advertise the   whereabouts of its submarines, as the craft are meant to be   secretive. ” ’   The  in March that   the US did not train for decapitation strikes of any kind, but it   would not confirm or deny the presence of the SEALs in Korea. ’ ’   There has been a flurry of activity on the peninsula recently.   Each March, the US and South Korea conduct  military drills,   which bring a wide range of soldiers and platforms to the region. ’ ”   North Korea also in April celebrates the  Kim   Il Sung, and the founding of its army. This year’s military   parade unveiled an unexpected bounty of new missile types and   modifications in North Korea’s inventory, with some of them    for   nonproliferation experts. ” ’  ’ ’   Meanwhile, the US has signaled a new confidence in its military   options against the Kim regime, with President Donald Trump at   one point  ”If China is not going to solve North   Korea, we will.” ’ ”   The Michigan adds a stealth element and an extra set of eyes and   ears to the already potent carrier strike group on North Korea’s   coast, but it doesn’t add much firepower  —   US Navy destroyers   accompanying the Vinson already have the kind of Tomahawk   missiles the Michigan has. ” ’   Though the North Koreans have threatened to sink the Vinson, US   Pacific Command’’s Adm. Harry Harris told Congress on Wednesday   that as far as North Korea’’s missile threats to the Vinson go,   ”.” ’ ’  ’ ’   But experts have repeatedly stressed to Business Insider that    against the Kim   regime exists. ’ ’   Even if the US somehow managed to decapitate the Kim regime, the   country still technically operates under its ”forever leader,”   Kim Il Sung, who died in 1994. ’ ”   In the decades since the elder Kim’s death, North Koreans have   remained fiercely loyal to the regime’s goals of nuclear   aggression toward the outside world, so it’s unlikely a single   leader’s death would upset that. ” ”South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency reported on. ..” ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’