’  ’ ’   Retired US Navy Admiral William McRaven had an esteemed     military career  —   which included leading the   assassination of Osama bin Laden  —   but it was his time in Navy   SEAL training after college that gave him his leadership   philosophy. ’ ’   In 2014, McRaven    breaking down the 10 biggest lessons he learned in the six months   of Basic Underwater   training in his early 20s,   and how they were universally applicable. ’ ’   Now the chancellor of the University of Texas system, McRaven has   released ”,” a short book expanding upon these principles   he spoke about a few years ago. ’ ’   In it, he recounts the last night of the Dive Phase of training  —     ”the most technically difficult part” of training, McRaven said,   and the one most likely to result in a serious injury or even   death. It was the night he learned you must ”be your very best in   the darkest moments.” ’ ’   The exercise requires that   candidates swim two   thousand meters underwater to a small ship, place a dummy mine on   the bottom of it, and then return to the beach, all without being   spotted by instructors. ’ ”   McRaven remembered the water as being pitch black, so that only a   small green chemical light could guide them. The compass they   used for navigation would run into interference from fog, and   their   breathing gear, which doesn’t emit bubbles   that could give away one’s position, was more difficult to use   and more prone to failure than typical SCUBA gear. ” ’  ’ ”   While underneath the ship, candidates would have to maintain   total control of their emotions and trust their instincts, in   complete darkness and with a deafening sound coming from the   ship’s machinery. ” ’   Ahead of the dive, the instructor told the candidates, ”Tonight,   you will have to be your very best. You must rise above your   fears, your doubts, and your fatigue. No matter how dark it gets,   you must complete the mission. This is what separates you from   everyone else.” ’ ’   McRaven wrote that those words stuck with him the rest of his   career, whether this was during a crucial mission or when he was   dealing with the deaths of his own men in combat. ’ ’   This night of training taught him that there would be   moments when he would be confronted with a challenge while   terrified, unsure of himself, and exhausted, and that if he   wanted to be an exceptional leader, he would need to   overcome this doubt and press forward with a solution. ’ ’   In fact, the best leaders seek out these situations, McRaven said   in . ”I   learned that if you are in combat, move to where the action is   the hottest,” he said. ”Spend time with the soldiers being   miserable, exhausted and scared. . .. Whatever position or branch   you are in, find the toughest, most dangerous job in your unit   and go do it.” ’ ’Retired US Navy Admiral William McRaven. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’