’  ’ ’   The New England Patriots have won five Super Bowls in 16 years   and despite routinely picking at the end of the first round in   the NFL Draft, a lot of their success can be attributed to   consistently nailing their picks. ’ ’   Of course, not all of their picks have been home runs. There have   certainly been a few notable whiffs, such as tight end Daniel   Graham in the first round of the 2002 draft and defensive back     Dowling with the 33rd pick in 2011. ’ ’   However, they also seem to find a lot of great value late in   the draft, even beyond . There was Rob Gronkowski in the second round,   Asante Samuel in the fourth round, and Julian Edelman in the   seventh round, just to name a few. ’ ”   The Patriots owe that success to Bill Belichick’s relatively   simple draft philosophy that includes three key points. Those   points were outlined by Mike Lombardi, who worked the draft   with Belichick in both New England and with the Cleveland Browns,   during . ” ’ 1. ”He’’s always about building a team. He’’s not   trying to collect talent.” ’ ’’ ’   One of the great debates on draft day is whether or not to fill   positions of need or to just take the best player available.   According to Lombardi, Belichick is always looking at how a   player is going to fit on the roster and how he can contribute to   the team. ’ ’   The Patriots did famously go against the philosophy once and it   worked out. In 2000, . And yet,   when they got to the sixth round, Brady was still on the board, a   player they had graded much higher. At that point, they could no   longer ignore the best player available. ’ ’ 2. ”Bill is all about not falling in love with a player.   Bill is looking at value.” ’ ’   Lombardi called Belichick a ”stock broker” and says he is   ”very analytical” when it comes to the draft. ’ ’   Belichick is well known for trading down in the draft,   something that goes back to early in his drafting career.   Lombardi says this is because he is looking for value and he   thinks the rising cost of rookies make early picks less   valuable. Those rising costs were curbed greatly in 2011 with the   new collective bargaining agreement. Belichick still likes to   trade down and acquire more draft picks, but he may be less   aggressive now. ’ ’   As an aside, Lombardi also noted that Belichick didn’’t want     rookies on his team out of respect for the veterans   on his team who had already given ”blood, sweat, and tears for   them to win.” ’ ’ 3. ”The draft room will be very small.” ’ ’   Lombardi calls Belichick ”one of the best listeners of all time,”   but notes that he is ”not looking for more opinions, he is   looking for the right opinions.” ’ ”   As a result of that approach, Lombardi says that Belichick will   typically only have three or four other people in the draft war   room with him. This is in stark contrast to the scenes of other   team’s war rooms shown on draft night when it often looks like   there are 20 people or more in the room. ” ’ Bonus: Belichick only wants to coach players he   likes. ’ ”   Recently, . That is, Belichick   has reached a point in his career where he can afford to be picky   and jettison players he doesn’t like. ” ’   From Meyer:  ’ ’   While Meyer did not specifically mention this in relation to   the NFL Draft, it is easy to imagine that this is something   Belichick considers when he is scouting players leading up to   draft night. ’ ”   Obviously Belichick does a lot of homework to prepare for the   draft, and ultimately that work is the basis for selecting good   players. But his   philosophy is also amazingly   simple and considering how much of a   league the NFL can   be, it is surprising more teams don’t mimic that. ” ’ Tony Manfred contributed to this report. ’ ’The New England Patriots have won five Super. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’