’  ’ ”   A passenger was removed from a recent Delta Air Lines flight   after defying a crew member’s orders and using the bathroom while   the jet awaited takeoff. ” ’   On April 18, Delta Flight 2035 was third in line for takeoff in   Atlanta when the passenger, Kima Hamilton, felt the urgent need   to urinate, the  reported. ’ ’   However, when Hamilton reached the rear lavatory of the McDonnell   Douglas   he said, a flight attendant told him that the   plane would lose its place in line if he used the restroom  —   so   Hamilton returned to his seat. ’ ’   Hamilton said the urge returned after an extended wait and became   more intense, so he used the restroom. ’ ’   ”We weren’’t taking off,” he told the Journal Sentinel. ”We were   still. The plane isn’’t moving.” ’ ’’ ”   Hamilton’s decision to get up while the aircraft was taxiing,   along with his decision to defy the crew member’s orders, caused   the   flight to return to the gate. ” ’   In a  by a fellow   passenger, an airline employee asks Hamilton to exit the   aircraft, and Hamilton pleads his case to remain on board. At the   gate, all passengers were forced to deplane, and Hamilton was met   by airline employees and law enforcement, according to the   Journal Sentinel. ’ ’   Footage of unpleasant passenger interactions with airline   employees appears regularly on social media, as travelers with   smartphones can record every incident. One of the most shocking   was the violent removal of a passenger from a  earlier this   month after he refused to give up his seat. ’ ’   Fury over the incident, which caused the passenger injuries,   prompted a series of apologies from United and, on Thursday, a    something like it will never happen   again. ’ ”   It’s not just United and Delta. Last week, an  was   suspended after getting into a heated confrontation with a   passenger that was recorded by a fellow passenger. The flight   attendant also took a stroller out of a woman’s hands and nearly   struck a young child in the process, the passenger who recorded   the video said. ” ”   In Delta’s case, the requirement for passengers to remain seated   while taxiing is not the airline’s rule, but a federal aviation   regulation. ” ”   According to Delta, the crew’s account of the event differs from   that of the passenger, but the airline declined to go into   detail. ” ’   In a statement to Business Insider, Delta said: ”Our flight crews   are extensively trained to ensure the safety and security of all   customers. It is imperative that passengers comply with crew   instructions during all phases of flight, especially at the   critical points of takeoff and landing.” ’ ’ the fasten seat belt sign   must be turned on while the aircraft is in motion on the ground,   during landing and takeoff, or when the pilot in command sees   fit; all passengers must remain seated with their seat belts   fastened when the sign is on; and all passengers must comply with   seating orders given to them by the crew. ’ ”   However, it’s unclear how much latitude employees at Delta and   other airlines have to make judgment calls in instances such as   Flight 2035. ” ’A passenger was removed from a recent Delta Air. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’