’  ’ ’   Yik Yak will be shutting down its anonymous chat app in the next   week as the school year draws to a close, the .  ’ ’   The anonymous chat app used to be valued at $4oo million after   raising more than $73 million in venture capital. ’ ’   At its prime, Yik Yak was considered the darling of the anonymous   messaging space, having attracted a young user base of college   students that would compulsively open the app multiple times a   day to stay informed. However, Yik Yak had trouble enticing   people to stick around, especially as Snapchat took off. ’ ’   ”We were so lucky to have the most passionate users on the   planet. It’s you who made this journey possible,” . ”The time has come, however, for   our paths to part ways, as we’ve decided to make our next moves   as a company.” ’ ’   The app will be winding down at the end of the school year, the   founders, Brooks Buffington and Tyler Droll, said. Some of the   engineering talent will be joining Square at their office in   Atlanta. Bloomberg  that the payments company had spent $3   million to bring on some of the engineering team, but  from Square revealed that it   only spent $1 million for employment agreements and to   license certain intellectual property from the company. ’ ’’ ’   Founded in 2013, Yik Yak  as high schoolers and college students   latched onto the anonymous messaging app. However, the company   faced problems with harassment and bullying in the app and never   quite found a good way to combat it. Last August,  to do away with anonymous and add real   profiles, but it never took off in the same way again. Yik Yak    at the end of 2016.  ’ ’   Now, Yik Yak will be shuttering the app as what’’s left of the   company starts ” ’ ’   ”Building Yik Yak  —   both the app you used and the company that   powered it  —   was the greatest, hardest, most enjoyable, most   stressful, and ultimately most rewarding experience we’ve ever   had,” the founders said.  ’ ’Yik Yak will be shutting down its anonymous. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’