Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) If it were up to California’s newspapers, Donald J. Trump would face a virtual shutout on Tuesday. Of dozens of dailies in the state, only The Santa Barbara   has backed the Republican presidential nominee, Politico reported. But how do the publications line up on the rest of Tuesday’s ballot? Research has shown that even in the digital age, endorsements by newspaper editorial boards still sway some minds. Their influence is greatest when the choice is unexpected, such as when The San Diego   came out in favor of Hillary Clinton, the first Democrat to be backed for president in the paper’s   history. In such cases, roughly 5 percent of readers can be persuaded to switch their votes, said Brian G. Knight, a professor of economics at Brown University, who has studied newspaper endorsements. The effect is also likely amplified on questions further down the ballot, Dr. Knight said. For Californians overwhelmed by 17 statewide initiatives, along with choices on everything from school board candidates to complicated stadium plans, guidance from a newspaper can go a long way. We took a look at how six of the state’s leading newspapers by number of subscribers  —   The San Diego   The Orange County Register, The Los Angeles Times, The Mercury News, San Francisco Chronicle and The Sacramento Bee  —   lined up on some propositions. • Proposition 56 (increases tobacco tax) Yes: 5 (  Times, Mercury, Chronicle, Bee) No: 1 (Register) • Proposition 58 (restores bilingual education) Yes: 4 (Times, Register, Chronicle, Bee) No: 2 (  Mercury) • Proposition 61 (changes drug pricing) Yes: 0 No: 6 (  Times, Register, Mercury, Chronicle, Bee) • Proposition 62 (abolishes death penalty) Yes: 6 (  Times, Register, Mercury, Chronicle, Bee) No: 0 • Proposition 63 (tightens gun control) Yes: 5 (  Times, Mercury, Chronicle, Bee) No: 1 (Register) • Proposition 64 (legalizes recreational marijuana) Yes: 5 (  Times, Register, Mercury, Chronicle) No: 1 (Bee) • Proposition 67 (bans plastic bags) Yes: 5 (  Times, Mercury, Chronicle, Bee) No: 1 (Register) Tuesday is Election Day. Don’t know where to vote? Look it up. See reporting in The New York Times on the statewide initiatives: Proposition 51 (school bond) | Proposition 52 (hospital fees) | Proposition 53 (megaprojects) | Proposition 54 (legislative transparency) | Proposition 55 (income tax) | Proposition 56 (cigarette tax) | Proposition 57 (prison sentencing) | Proposition 58 (bilingual education)| Proposition 59 (Citizens United) | Proposition 60 (condoms in adult film) | Proposition 61 (drug pricing) | Propositions 62 and 66 (death penalty) | Proposition 63 (gun control) | Proposition 64 (marijuana) | Propositions 65 and 67 (plastic bag ban) • Galleries in the Boyle Heights neighborhood have been targeted with graffiti attacking “white art,” Jennifer Medina reports from Los Angeles. [The New York Times] • Proposition 56 would tax   for the first time, despite evidence suggesting they may help people quit smoking. [The New York Times] • While Congress fails to face up to the toll of gun carnage, California is forging ahead with innovative safety measures. [The New York Times Editorial Board] • Why the beverage industry is spending tens of millions of dollars to stop soda taxes in California. [The New York Times] • “We almost have riots”: As Silicon Valley has become more congested, there are rising demands to rein in growth. [The New York Times] • A    look at the fight between two frenemies: Salesforce and Microsoft. [The New York Times] • With the Cubs ending their   title drought, the Curse needs to reside somewhere else, and Buffalo and San Diego top the list. [The New York Times] • Damien Chazelle discussed his latest film, “La La Land,” which stars Emma Stone, Ryan Gosling and, yes, Los Angeles. [The New York Times] • Airbnb offers the opportunity to sample someone else’s style for a night, like the tiny Mushroom Dome Cabin in Aptos. [The New York Times] • The Daily 360: Visit a California pot farm where the owner is against legalization for recreational use. [The New York Times] • Robert Durst, the real estate scion, will make a   appearance in a Los Angeles court on Monday to face charges in a 2000 murder. • Friday is Veterans Day. Among those holding events: San Diego, Los Angeles, Palm Springs, Santa Barbara, Salinas, Fresno, San Jose, Petaluma and Sacramento. • The Napa Valley Film Festival will mix food, wine and screenings of more than 100 movies from Wednesday to Sunday. • City slicker looking for an experience? Check out the Brawley Cattle Call Rodeo in the Imperial Valley on Saturday and Sunday. There will be steer wrestling, bull riding and plenty of corn dogs. In 1991, when Magic Johnson stunned America with the news that he had H. I. V. many figured he had little time left. “All of us thought it was a death sentence,” Pat Riley, the former Lakers coach, told The Times’s Harvey Araton years later. But in 2016, Johnson is, of course, very much alive. It was 25 years ago today that Johnson, then 32, told reporters at the Forum that he would leave the Lakers because of the diagnosis and dedicate himself to raising awareness about H. I. V. prevention. “I think sometimes we think, well, only gay people can get it  —   ‘It’s not going to happen to me,’” he said. “And here I am saying that it can happen to anybody, even me, Magic Johnson. ” Johnson mounted a pair of comebacks in the 1990s, but faced resistance from some players, notably Karl Malone, who expressed fears about playing with him. Johnson settled into a new life as a philanthropist, businessman and, in recent years, part owner of the Dodgers. His Magic Johnson Foundation funds prevention of H. I. V.  and other charitable goals. Johnson has said he has to remind people that he is not cured, but managing the infection with a cocktail of drugs. More than 1. 2 million people in the United States live with H. I. V. according to government data. During the 1991 news conference, Johnson told reporters, flashing his trademark smile, “I plan on going on living for a long time, bugging you guys like I always have. ” This year, Johnson turned 57. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.