’  ’ ’   The president of North America’’s largest bicycle manufacturer has   slammed President Donald Trump over his  failed leadership, and misguided   ”America First theory.” ’ ’   John Burke, the head of Waterloo,    lambasted Trump   during an interview with Business Insider on Thursday, saying he   missed a huge opportunity to simplify a complicated tax system   and has failed to lead the country. ’ ’   ”We’’re 100 days in and he finally comes out with a tax plan  —   and   it was 250 words? And there was no bad news,” Burke said. ”Here’’s   this huge opportunity to simplify everything and to have massive   change, and you get 250 words.” ’ ’   While Trump’’s tax plan contains broad outlines rather than firm   legislative text, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and National   Economic Council Director Gary Cohn said the plan would include   ”the biggest tax cut” in US history, echoing statements made by   Trump. ’ ”   Trek, a   company, was cofounded by Richard Burke,   John’s father, in a Waterloo barn in 1976. Today it is a global   bike business worth over $1 billion, and it employs 2, 000 people   worldwide. It makes a variety of bikes, including kids’ bikes,   mountain bikes, and   road bikes. It also owns the    team that competes   in the . ” ’   Burke, who says he is neither a Republican nor a Democrat but an   independent, is the author of ”,” published in 2016, which ”challenges Americans   to resist the status quo and change what elected officials are   unwilling or unable to change.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Look, I don’’t need a tax break  —   Trek doesn’’t need a tax break,”   Burke told Business Insider. ”We’’re going to succeed and fail in   the market based on how good our products are and how good our   services are. As a member of the community, we have a moral duty   to be a good corporate citizen, and one way you’’re a good   corporate citizen is you pay your taxes.” ’ ’   Burke added that, from a competitive standpoint, American   corporate taxes should come down  —   but so should all the   deductions. And while he did praise Trump for reducing the number   of tax brackets, he criticized him for not getting rid of   corporate deductions altogether. ’ ’   ”You have General Electric, a great American company, which made   a profit of $12 billion. They filed a   tax return and   paid zero in taxes. ’ ’   ”So if you want to reduce corporate taxes, that’’s fine, reduce   them,” Burke went on, ”but Trump wants to reduce them from 35% to   15% and I think that’’s too big a decline. But then he doesn’’t   want to get rid of any of the deductions? ’ ’   ”Why do oil companies get deductions and bicycle companies don’’t?   Why do certain industries get deductions and shoemakers don’’t?   The brewer doesn’’t get a deduction. It doesn’’t make sense. You’’re   leaving in place this   tax system. ’ ’   ”So it’’s treats for everybody. For corporate America, you get a   lower rate, and you get to keep your deductions. And for all the   individual taxpayers, you get a lower rate. ’ ’   ”We’’re 19 trillion frickin dollars in debt and everybody got a   treat. And I just go, ’’You’’re kidding me. ’’ You call that   leadership? I don’’t.” ’ ’   Burke also criticized Trump on his leadership of the country. ’ ’   ”When you’’re the president of the United States and you come out   with this ’’American First’’ theory, what are you saying to the   rest of the world? ’ ’   ”I’’ve been so fortunate here in growing the business. When I   started here, we were doing $16 million and now we do over a   billion dollars, and I’’ve worked with an incredible team to do   that. We took the business from just being in the US to right now    —   60% of our business is around the world. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”And one of the reasons why American is as strong as it is, is   there are a lot of great American companies who have access to   markets all around the world  —   General Electric,     Apple, Trek,  . ’ ’   ”The whole ’’American First’’ thing . .. I just don’’t find that   conducive to America’’s future or anyone else in the world.” ’ ’   ”The best definition I ever heard of leadership is, leadership is   the ability to make the dream a reality at the grassroots level,”   Burke added. ”But leadership is also, ”Here’’s the vision, and I’’m   going to convince people where we need to go.” And what we’’ve   come to in American politics is saying, ’’Well, I need to get   elected, so I’’m going to tell all these people whatever they want   to hear. ’’ ’ ’   ”You know, if you’’re the richest person on the playground and   you’’re the biggest person on the playground . .. you know, we   usually lead like, ’’Talk softly and carry a big stick,’’ and when   we’’re walking around with a blow horn, that’’s not the way we   roll. ’ ’   ”We’’re a leader in the world, but to maintain that status over   the long haul, you actually need a leader who can look at the   people and say, ’’You know, we’’ve got problems here’’  —   and whether   your talking about tax codes, gun control, nuclear proliferation,   big issues  —   ’’Here are the problems, and here are the solutions,   and this is why we need to do it. ’’ ’ ’   ”And more than just a sound bite, we’’ve got to educate people and   say, ’’This is why we need to move here. ’’ And I think we lack that   right now, and I think we’’ve lacked it for a while.” ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ”   Trump’s proposal did not include a large number of key details,   including the income levels associated with a new     tax system, the tax rate for a   repatriation of corporate   profits held overseas, and others. ” ’   Here are the key points of the Trump plan: ’ ’   You can listen to Burke discussing ”” in 2016 below: ’ ’ ’ ’ Bob Ryan contributed reporting. ’ ”The president of North America’s largest. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’