’While many large companies use automated   software to cut down the initial pool of job applicants, loading your .’ ’”Nearly everyone is guilty of using buzzwords from time to time, but professionals are evaluated increasingly on their ability to communicate,” says Paul McDonald, senior executive director for   firm .’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’ ”leadership” was the top buzzword on its user’’s profiles. And if the word doesn’’t help you stand out on your LinkedIn profile, you can bet it won’’t make your résumé more   either.’ ”Rather than saying you have excellent leadership skills, you’d do better to highlight specific examples of when you demonstrated these skills and what kind of results you saw.” ’Tina Nicolai, who has read more than 40, 000 résumés since founding her company   that skills like being an ”exceptional communicator” are ”baseline expectations in today’’s market.” Stating that you are really great at communication isn’’t, in fact, saying very much.’ ’’ ’’ ’”It’’s pretty silly. They know it’’s your phone number. ”’ ’The same rule applies to email.’ ’”Instead of simply saying that you’’re   write about what you did to actually drive results  —   and what those results were,” Lorenz suggests.’ ’”Not only does this word conjure up images of curly fries,”  but ”it is   as a code word for ’’much, much older. ’’”’ ’McDonald says using terms like ”highly qualified” or ”extensive experience” won’’t make you seem better suited for the job  —   in fact, it could have the opposite effect. Instead, he suggests you focus on the skills, accomplishments, and credentials you bring to the role.’ ’Superfluous words like ”responsible for,” ”oversight of,” and ”duties included” unnecessarily complicate and hide your experience, says Alyssa Gelbard, founder and president of .’ ’”’ ’’ ’,spell out any acronyms first and put the initials in parentheses. For example, ”NYSE” would read ”New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). ”’ ’”For starters, acronyms are capitalized, and all caps are harder to read than upper and lower case,” she says. ”It’’s also really difficult to wade through a piece of paper that resembles alphabet soup. ”’ ’This outdated phrase will unnecessarily show your age, Gelbard says: ”If you progress through the interviewing process, you will be asked for personal and professional references. ”’ ’”Of course you would never say you’’re ’’lazy’’ either, but calling yourself ambitious doesn’’t make any sense on a résumé,” Friedman says.’ ’”It can imply that you’’re targeting this job now, but will quickly be looking to move up in the company because you won’’t be satisfied in the role, leaving the employer stuck with doing a new job search in the very near future. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”It’s assumed that you have a basic proficiency in Microsoft Office, Gelbard says. Unless you have expert proficiency, there’s no need to include it on your résumé.” ’”Words like this make you sound like an automaton,” Oliver says. ”Most recruiters would rather meet with a human being. Keep your verbs simple and streamlined. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’Speaking of the word ”hard,” using it to describe your work tasks can also have a negative effect.’ ’ZipRecruiter hosts a database of more than 3 million résumés, which small businesses, individual employers, and recruiters looking for candidates can rate on a scale of one to five stars (one being the lowest, five the highest). After  it found a correlation between certain keywords and low ratings.’ ’The word ”hard” was found to a strong correlation with   reviews, with up to a 79% greater likelihood of receiving the lowest rating.  the word gives employers the impression that you’’re put off by hard work.’ ”Being punctual is great, but it’s also pretty basic to holding down a job. Don’t waste the space on your résumé.” ”Unless it’s in your email address, avoid casual texting language like @.” ’”A résumé is a formal document and is often the first impression a potential employer has of you,” Gelbard stresses. ”Business language should be used to reinforce that first impression and   or casual words should be avoided. ”’ ’Clichés like ”people person” are impossible to prove, Oliver says, and r’ ’’ ’Avoid using personal pronouns like I, me, my, we, or our, Gelbard says.’ ’”A person reviewing your résumé knows that you’’re talking about your skills, experience, and expertise or something related to the company for which you worked, so you don’’t need to include pronouns. ”’ ’ZipRecruiter  people who use ”me” or ”myself” on their résumé had up to a 79% greater likelihood of receiving the lowest rating from hiring managers.’ ”And while you’re at it, don’t bother including your career objectives. All they do is send the message that you’re more concerned about yourself, .” ’”When the first thing a recruiter sees on your résumé is what you want from them, they’’re turned off,”    expert ’ ’”It’’s generally assumed that you were successful at whatever you are including on your résumé,” Gelbard says. ”There is no need to say that you successfully managed a marketing campaign or successfully led annual budget planning. ”’ ’Subjective words like ”creative,” ”innovative,” and ”exceptional,” are your own opinion and have little bearing for a recruiter, . Even worse, these words make you sound cocky.’ ”Augustine tells O’Donnell that a good test is to ask yourself if you’d say these things when speaking face to face with a recruiter.” ”Unless these activities are in some way related to the job you’re applying for,  what you do in your spare time when they’re skimming your résumé.” ’Not only is this word superfluous, just like ”phone,” but  you shouldn’’t include your mailing address at all.’ ’”Nobody needs to have that on their ’ ”Another reason not to include your mailing address: You don’t want hiring managers trying to contact you in five different places  —   that just makes more for you to keep track of.” ’Honesty is one of those things you have to show, not tell, Friedman says.’ ’”It’’s not as if there are some other candidates out there vying for the job who are describing themselves as ’’duplicitous’’ or ’’’ ’’ ’’ ”Once you’re out of school, your grades aren’t so relevant. The exception is if you’re a recent college graduate and you have a stellar GPA.” ”But if you’re more than three years out of school, or if your GPA was lower than a 3. 8, ditch it.” ’ZipRecruiter  the ’ ’ she hates overly formal words like ”utilize”  —   they’’re not engaging and they don’’t allow the reader to get a good sense of the applicant’’s personality, she says.’ ”And she’s not alone.” ’As  she usually swaps out words like ”utilize” for unimpressive ones like ”use,” which get the point across without much fuss. She says that sentences that use overly formal words sound fluffy and make it seem like you’’re trying too hard.’ ’While many large companies use automated. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’