HONG KONG  —   The Chinese government plans to intervene in a legal dispute in Hong Kong over two politicians who have been prevented from taking seats in the local legislature, officials said on Friday, raising fears that the territory’s independent judiciary is under threat. A decision may come on Monday. What is this case about? Two politicians who advocate independence for Hong Kong  —   Yau   25, and Sixtus Leung, 30  —   were elected to the city’s Legislative Council in September. On Oct. 12, as they were being sworn in, they deviated from the oath of office by saying “ ” instead of China. Many consider the term a derogatory slur against Chinese people because it was used by the Japanese in World War II. Ms. Yau also added a crude epithet. The clerk ruled their oaths invalid, preventing them from taking office, and the president of the Legislative Council scheduled another session for the pair to be sworn in. But the Hong Kong government went to court, arguing that Ms. Yau and Mr. Leung should not be allowed to take their seats on the council.  What does the law say? Hong Kong, a former British colony, is governed by a charter known as the Basic Law, which was negotiated before the area returned to Chinese rule in 1997. One provision says legislators must “swear allegiance to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China. ” There is also a local statute that says any person “who declines or neglects to take an oath duly requested” is disqualified from entering office, or must vacate the post if he or she has already done so. The Hong Kong government, which is led by a chief executive who is essentially appointed by Beijing, argued in court on Thursday that the two politicians have declined to take the oath and should be disqualified. But a lawyer representing the president of the Legislative Council argued that the question should be decided by the legislature, not the courts or the executive branch.  How can the Chinese government intervene? The Basic Law gives Beijing the authority to issue interpretations of the charter. Specifically, it grants the power to the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, which is controlled by the Chinese Communist Party. It is rare, however, for the Chinese government to issue an interpretation of the Basic Law without being asked to do so by Hong Kong’s highest court or by the Hong Kong government. That has happened only once since 1997, and the committee has never issued an unsolicited opinion on a matter under active consideration by the courts in Hong Kong. On Friday, officials said the Chinese government planned to do just that, potentially issuing a ruling before the courts have finished hearing the case.  What is at stake? Some say the independence of the courts in Hong Kong is at risk. The territory’s reputation for rule of law has been crucial to its success as an international financial hub, so any move that undermines its judicial system could have repercussions beyond this particular case. China promised “a high degree of autonomy” for Hong Kong in a treaty with Britain, but people have worried that it has been interfering in the territory’s affairs and undermining civil liberties. In the past year, five local booksellers who sold publications critical of Beijing disappeared and later showed up in Chinese custody. Two years ago, hundreds of thousands of protesters occupied major roads in Hong Kong demanding free elections to select the city’s top official. The Hong Kong Bar Association says intervention by the Chinese government would be “a severe blow” to the judiciary and to the principle of   in the territory. Even the Hong Kong government says the case should be decided in Hong Kong’s courts.  What might happen next? The Chinese government is worried that   sentiment in Hong Kong is growing and wants it to stop. It has pilloried Ms. Yau and Mr. Leung in particular, and may issue a narrow ruling that bars them from taking office. But it might go further and try to block all   candidates from running for office. Simon Young, a law professor at the University of Hong Kong, said a ruling by Beijing would probably be messy and incomplete because the country’s leaders do not appreciate and do not understand Hong Kong’s highly developed legal system, which draws on precedents set over hundreds of years. Many questions could be left unanswered. For example, what if a person who once supported independence for Hong Kong has a change of heart? Would he or she be eligible to serve in the legislature? Hong Kong’s courts will have to fill in the gaps, inviting further interpretations of the Basic Law by Beijing, “and that, of course, will create even more chaos,” Mr. Young said.