’  ’ ’   IBF heavyweight world champion Anthony Joshua climbed off the   canvas to defeat   great Wladimir Klitschko in a      fight for the ages on Saturday, April 29 in   London. ’ ’   Joshua knocked Klitschko out in the 11th round in front of 90, 000   adoring fans at Wembley Stadium, adding the WBA world heavyweight   title to his IBF crown. ’ ’   The Brit was always the bookmakers favourite heading into   Saturday’’s showdown but there is an   saying in boxing:   ”Every great fighter has one last great fight in them.” ’ ”   Unfortunately for Klitschko, the evening was all Joshua, as ’AJ’   launched himself into superstardom with one of the greatest ever   performances from an English boxer. ” ’   Before the fight,  but, dressed in a white robe on his way to the ring,   the Londoner actually brought back memories of a vintage Iron   Mike. ’ ’   With a   weight advantage, Joshua was able to fight with   the merciless destruction of a wrecking ball. ’ ’   His fine balance and appreciation of distance allowed him to find   range with lead jabs in the first round and, by the third, he   unleashed solid   combinations. ’ ’   Klitschko had his moments. After all, the Ukrainian is a wily pro   who mastered his unique style long ago. His footwork was   extraordinary for a    man and he demonstrated a   technical ability that few can match. ’ ”   But this was a story of Joshua’s remarkable strength, of his   exciting brutality, and of his punching power. Power so awesome   it saw Klitschko crumble to the canvas in a dramatic fifth round   thanks to an AJ onslaught. ” ’   Klitschko was stunned and wobbled around the ring even after   climbing to his feet. But the veteran recuperated quickly to daze   Joshua with precise left hooks, crunching right hands, and     uppercuts. ’ ’   Was there life in the old dog yet? ’ ’   In the sixth round, like a rabid hound out of hell, Klitschko bit   Joshua bad. It was a shot that could be heard as loudly at   ringside as it could at home and Joshua was down. ’ ’  ’ ”   Yes, Klitschko fired a bow and arrow right hand into Joshua’s   cheekbone and the home fighter dropped to the floor in front of   his own fans. You could almost feel the silence. The right hand   was classic Klitschko. ” ’   But was it all over? No! Joshua made the count. He was down, but   not out. Joshua rose to his feet and survived the round. ’ ’   The rest of the fight was a   chess match. Klitschko   channelled the greats of the game who fought well into their   forties as he showed an athleticism that was every match for the   younger man. ’ ”   But this younger man had something Klitschko couldn’t match.   Joshua dug deep and summoned that concussive power once again as   he toppled the ring legend a second and a third time with   unanswerable flurries of punches in the 11th round. ” ’   It was all over. ’ ’   ”I’’m not perfect, but I’’m trying,” Joshua announced in the middle   of the ring after having his arm raised as the clear winner. ’ ’   ”I give a shout out to my trainer [Robert McCracken] a shout out   to the 90, 000 people here in the arena, and, lastly, as boxing   states you have to leave your ego at the door and respect your   opponent, I give a shout out to Wladimir Klitschko. ’ ’   ”Wladimir is a role model and I’’ve got nothing but love for   anybody who steps in the ring.” ’ ’   An emotional Joshua added: ”I know I’’ve got my doubters but I dug   deep tonight. London, Ukraine, Germany  …     I love you!” ’ ’   A dejected Klitschko said: ”It’’s really sad I didn’’t [win]   tonight but all respect to Anthony and congratulations. To the   90, 000 fans here, you are all awesome. ’ ’   ”Right now I will analyse what the heck happened but I am   interested in a rematch.” ’ ’   No way. ’ ’  ’ ’   Joe Cordina opened the show and scored a first round knockout   against overmatched super featherweight Sergej Vib. ’ ’   Katie Taylor bloodied and bruised Nina Meinke en route to a       stoppage victory. ’ ’   Luke Campbell defeated Darleys Perez in the ninth round after a   shaky start. ’ ’   Scott Quigg and Viorel Simion blocked each other’s punches face   first but the former won a   decision in a bruising   battle. ’ ’   But it was only the   to Anthony Joshua and Wladimir   Klitschko’s historic bout that fired up the 90, 000 fans at   Wembley Stadium in London. ’ ’   And boy, did it deliver. ’ ’   Matchroom Boxing may have spared no expense on pyrotechnics but   ultimately it was two of the biggest athletes in boxing who   produced the most explosive fireworks. ’ ’IBF heavyweight world champion Anthony Joshua. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’