’  ’ ’   Autocratic leaders who may have had strained relationships   with past US presidential administrations due to  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s willingness to engage with some of the   world’s most notorious strongmen was on full display last   weekend, when he extended White House invitations   to Filipino President Rodrigo Duterte and Thai Prime   Minister   ” ’   Then on Monday, Trump said he would be ”honored” to meet   with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un over his country’’s nuclear   weapons program, provided certain conditions were first met. ’ ”   The overtures prompted outrage among   experts and   some Democratic lawmakers. Duterte’s merciless   campaign   has left more than 7, 000 people dead since he took office in   late June 2016, according to the . Nearly 3, 000   have died at the hands of police. ” ”   North Korea’s Kim, meanwhile,  ” ’   ”We are watching in real time as the American human rights bully   pulpit disintegrates into ash,” Democratic Sen. Chris   Murphy tweeted Sunday. ’ ’  ’ ’   The White House has defended the invitation to Duterte  —   who   called President Barack Obama an ”idiot” and ”son of a whore”   after his administration raised concerns about the country’’s   drug war and   killings  —    not a ”thank you.” An   administration official  that it was aimed at   preventing the Philippines from pivoting completely away from the   US, which could ”intensify” Duterte’’s ”bad behavior.” ’ ’   But the outreach to Duterte and was not the first time Trump has   displayed an unforced affinity for, and even attempted to   legitimize, leaders with authoritarian reputations. ’ ’   Throughout his presidential campaign, Trump praised Russian   President Vladimir Putin as a strong leader and called it a   ”great honor to be so nicely complimented by a man so highly   respected within his own country and beyond.” Trump has twice   defended Putin against accusations that he   murders journalists and dissidents, saying in September that   he hadn’’t seen ”any evidence that [Putin] killed anybody” and   telling Bill O’’Reilly in February that in the US, ”we kill   people, too.” ’ ”   When Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan won a referendum   last month allowing him to vastly expand his presidential   authorities and consolidate power, Trump called to congratulate   him on his victory. The White House readout of the call did not   mention Erdogan’s crackdown on dissent, which has   only intensified since a failed coup threatened his grip on power   last summer. ” ’   In early April, Egyptian President  ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump    with Chinese President Xi Jinping, who has   intensified China’’s longtime policy of censorship   and intolerance of dissent (which has included the periodic   abduction of government critics) according to . Trump has said he   and Xi have ”great chemistry,” an abrupt turn after he frequently   lambasted China along the campaign trail. ’ ”   Trump’s behavior in the foreign policy arena, experts say, is   either an indication of how he views strength and good   governance, or a signal of his broader understanding that   the   global order  —   and its commitment to liberal   democratic values  —   is eroding. ” ’   Or both. ’ ’   The US has a long history of cooperating with authoritarian or   dictatorial regimes in the name of furthering US national   security interests. ’ ’   T ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The difference, however, is that previous presidents tended to   caveat these partnerships with either a public or private warning   about the need to uphold human rights and the rule of law.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Just about every administration since Franklin Roosevelt has   had to cooperate with dictators, to some extent, in the name   of US strategic interests,” Inboden said, pointing   to Roosevelt’’s alignment with Joseph Stalin during   World War II to counter Nazi Germany. ”But the US also has a   consistent record of pushing these   countries  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Former US ambassador Jim Jeffrey, who ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Inboden, the  said that approach seems ”very   strategically  .” Others don’’t think there’’s a   strategy behind it at all. ’ ”   Derek Chollet served as the’s   policy planning  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Chollet acknowledged that the US’ commitment to human rights is   often in conflict with its need to preserve and foster   certain diplomatic relationships, a point Spicer made during his   briefing on Monday. ” ’   ”It’’s a very tricky balance,” Chollet said. But it requires   ” ’ ’   Inboden agreed. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’Autocratic leaders who may have had. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’