’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump told Bloomberg News on Monday   that the healthcare bill he wants Congress to pass is ”not   in its final form right now. ’ ’It will be every bit as good on     conditions as Obamacare,” he said. ’ ”   But currently, the bill   —   because of changes Trump’s own White House   sought to the bill. To secure the votes of members of the     House Freedom Caucus, the White House brokered an   amendment that would allow states to waive Obamacare rules that   protect people with preexisting conditions. ” ’   Republican trepidation about undermining these protections is a   major reason there are not the votes to pass the bill in the   House. For example, Rep. Billy Long of Missouri  —   not a moderate   by any measure  —    he can’’t vote for the latest   version of the American Health Care Act because it ”strips away   any guarantee that preexisting conditions would be covered and   affordable.” ’ ’   But some Republicans are claiming that the Republican bill is   good enough on preexisting conditions, already   meeting Trump’’s promise to be ”every bit as good” as   Obamacare on this measure. ’ ’’ ’   ”The Republican plan protects people with     conditions,” a spokesperson for Speaker Paul Ryan told NBC News.   ”States can’’t opt out without a high risk pool to take care of   them. And waivers never apply to anyone who has been continuously   covered. We believe there is more than one way to address this   problem.” ’ ”   This argument is similar to . The idea   is, while the Republican bill would allow insurers to charge   sick people more for insurance, it would still protect people   because insurers wouldn’t be able to raise prices on you due   to your health as long as you never let   your coverage lapse. And if you did let your coverage lapse,   you’d be able to go buy a plan through a   pool. ” ’   This argument is highly misleading, for two reasons. ’ ”   The first is that coverage gaps are common. Often, people lose   health insurance coverage because they lose a job. Many people   cannot afford to buy their own health insurance when they’ve lost   the income from their job.  ” ’   Ponnuru argues that the insurance subsidies in the AHCA would   help people avoid coverage gaps. In some cases, they would. But   the subsidies (of $2, 000 to $4, 000 per person) would not be   sufficient to buy a comprehensive insurance policy. Many people   would still find it unaffordable to maintain coverage when they   face a financial shock  —   especially if they are older or   live in   markets. ’ ”   A possible exception would be if the abolition of    allows insurers to design limited insurance policies that are   scoped to be priced equal to the credit amounts  —   for   example, you might be able to get a health plan for $2, 000, just   using your tax credit and making no payment out of pocket, but   the plan wouldn’t cover doctor’s visits or hospitalization. ” ”   In this scenario, people would find it easy to maintain some form   of continuous coverage, but health insurance markets would become    as I wrote in   March. (Also, people would have health insurance that doesn’t   cover important benefits, such as doctor’s visits.) ” ”   If everything else fails, Ponnuru and Ryan’s spokesperson both   argue that uninsured sick people could fall back on a     pool. And indeed, under the Republican healthcare law, states   waiving the preexisting condition protections would have to   provide some form of subsidized   or reinsurance program   to help insurers cover   patients. ” ’   But the law would impose no adequacy test on these programs. ’ ’   Before Obamacare, many states offered   pools,   which were intended to provide subsidized insurance to     patients who insurers would otherwise be unwilling to   cover at an affordable price. The problem was, covering these   patients is very expensive, and public funding to subsidize the   pools routinely proved to be insufficient to cover the   number of people who needed such coverage. ’ ’   As a result, pools often featured very high pricing   (unaffordable to many   participants) and waiting lists to   participate. The Republican plan would likely lead to the   return of this dysfunction. ’ ’   Protecting people with preexisting conditions, to ensure they can   buy affordable insurance, is one of the most popular parts of   Obamacare. The current Republican proposal does not maintain such   protections, despite what its supporters claim. ’ ’President Donald Trump told Bloomberg News on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’