’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump  that he’’d be   ”honored” to talk to Kim Jong Un, and while it’’s  to meet with one of the world’’s most brutal   dictators, it may provide an important glance into . ’ ’   Several top Trump administration officials have stressed an   ”” approach to North Korea, at   different times emphasizing military action, collaboration with   China for harsher sanctions,  its   missile program, and now, finally, direct talks. ’ ”   While Trump has been  and hasn’t shied away from the prospect of   conflict, he has at times had nice things to say about the   country’s leader. ” ’   ”He’’s 27 years old, his father dies, took over a regime, so say   what you want, but that’’s not easy, especially at that age,”   Trump said in an . ’ ’   In an interview with CBS’’s ”Face the Nation,” Trump called Kim a   ”.” ’ ”   During the campaign, he said he’d talk to Kim  —   and that there   was a 10% to 20% chance he’d talk Kim out of his nuclear program,   . ” ’   But Yun Sun, a senior associate at the Stimson Center, told   Business Insider that direct talks with Kim would have been   ”impossible” under President Barack Obama, who took office as   North Korea had burned US diplomats by pulling out of the     talks at the critical moment when it was set to   denuclearize. ’ ’   ”By telling the North Korean leader that he’’s a ’’smart cookie’’   and he’’d be ’’honored’’ to talk to them, I sense a difference in   the US policy goals coming to North Korea,” Sun said. ”President   Trump’’s goal and his agenda are quite strictly limited to the   denuclearization of North Korea.” ’ ”   Sun contrasted this with another agenda: addressing North Korea’s   abysmal   record and the dynastic nature of its   leadership. According to Sun, Trump may be speaking highly of Kim   to signal his goal is not regime change, only neutralizing the   nuclear threat. ” ’  ’ ’   Sun characterized Trump’’s apparent course as ”pretty classic     .” ’ ’   But according to Jenny Town, the assistant director of the     Institute and a managing editor at  there may not be much to gain   by reading into Trump’’s statements, which have been all over the   place. In addition to the ”smart cookie” comment, ”he’’s also   called Kim a madman, imbalanced, and irrational,” Town said. ’ ’   Town noted that Trump said he’’d talk to Kim only ”under the right   circumstances.” If those circumstances were understood to mean   North Korea’’s denuclearization, they would still be ”above the   threshold of what we can expect North Korea to do unilaterally,”   Town said. ’ ”   However, if the US could assure the Kim regime that it didn’t   want to remove it from power, it may be a little more willing to   abandon its nuclear ambitions. ” ’   ”I think, across the board, this administration attaches less   importance to ideological issues like authoritarianism,” Sun   said. ’ ’   With China, where religious persecution is  and enemies of the Communist   Party are  Trump has embraced its   leader, Xi Jinping, often pointing to the strength of their   relationship as a lever in the North Korean conflict. ’ ’  ’ ”   None of the reports from Trump’s summit with Xi at    has   mentioned a discussion of human rights, which might have been a     issue with past administrations. ” ’   ”Trump has a pragmatic approach to the   issues that   he sees as most important,” Sun said. ”In the current state, he   sees that the North Korean issue is the most important.” ’ ’   This pragmatism has appeared elsewhere in Trump’’s foreign policy.   Trump authorized a cruise missile strike against the government   of Syrian President Bashar Assad to punish its use of chemical   weapons, while his administration simultaneously admitted Assad’’s   leadership was a ”.” ’ ”   But even Xi, North Korea’s treaty ally, hasn’t found Kim   honorable enough to meet with even once since Kim took power in   2011. ” ’  ’ ”   Although Trump said it would be an honor to meet with Kim, the   US’s evaluation of the North Korean regime most likely hasn’t   changed, Sun said. Trump may merely be signaling a new, tactical   willingness to engage with a country that could eventually pose a   nuclear threat. ” ”   Meanwhile, the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier lurks off North   Korea’s coast, and Chinese and South Korean diplomats are meeting   to discuss tightening sanctions on North Korea. ” ”   According to Sun, these actions are likely to pressure the Kim   regime while showing that there’s a realistic,       on the road to a nuclear confrontation. ” ’President Donald Trump told Bloomberg on Monday. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’