’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton told CNN’’s Christiane Amanpour during an event on   Tuesday that she believed she was ”on the way to winning” the   2016 presidential election until the FBI announced 11 days before   it that it was revisiting the investigation into her use of a   private email server. ’ ’   The former secretary of state said that while she took ”absolute   personal responsibility” for her defeat, ”a combination of Jim   Comey’’s letter on October 28 and Russian WikiLeaks raised doubts   in the minds of people who were inclined to vote for me and got   scared off.” ’ ’   On October 28, Comey, the director of the FBI,  saying that the   FBI had learned of ”the existence of emails that appear to be   pertinent” to the investigation into Clinton’’s use of a private   email server while she was secretary of state, which had been   closed in July. ’ ’   The letter was promptly released by Utah Rep. Jason Chaffetz, the   chair of the House oversight committee, and dominated the   headlines of major media outlets in the days leading up to the   election. ’ ’   ”As Nate Silver has concluded, if the election had been on   October 27, I would be your president,” Clinton said. ’ ’’ ’   Silver, the    of FiveThirtyEight, a     website,  that Comey’’s letter cost Clinton the election.   Clinton’’s poll numbers dropped 3 points after Comey sent the   letter, Silver noted  —   a   slip that political   scientists attributed to ”,” according to The New York Times. ’ ’   Silver added that on Election Day, Clinton lost Florida,   Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Michigan by less than 1 percentage   point each. ’ ”   In late July, WikiLeaks began publishing emails from Clinton’s   campaign chairman, John Podesta. The   transparency   organization continued releasing the emails from his account,   believed to be hacked by Russian actors, in batches through   October. ” ”   The US intelligence community concluded in January that the   hacking campaign had been directed by Russian President Vladimir   Putin to undermine Clinton’s candidacy and boost President Donald   Trump. ” ’   The evidence that those two ”intervening events” were carried out   to harm her candidacy was ”compelling and persuasive,” Clinton   told Amanpour on Tuesday. But she said she was proud of her   campaign for overcoming an ”enormous barrage of negativity, of   false equivalence, of so much else.” ’ ’   Clinton has said women’’s rights are ”the unfinished business of   the 21st century.” On Tuesday, Amanpour asked whether Clinton   believed ”sexism, misogyny, and inequity” existed in the United   States and whether she was the victim of it during the election. ’ ’   ”I do think it played a role,” Clinton replied. ”It is real, and   it is very much a part of the landscape politically, socially,   and economically.” But she said ”other things” played a role as   well. ’ ’   ”Every day that goes by, we learn more about the unprecedented   interference, including from a foreign power whose leader is not   a member of my fan club,” she said, alluding to Russia and Putin. ’ ”Hillary Clinton told CNN’s Christiane Amanpour. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’