’  ’ ’   Sen. John McCain rebuked President Donald Trump’’s ”very   disturbing” remarks towards controversial foreign leaders that   have been widely admonished by lawmakers. ’ ’   Speaking to Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski on MSNBC’’s   ”Morning Joe” on Tuesday, McCain said that Trump’’s latest   attempts to side with leaders like Kim Jong Un of North Korea   were beyond comprehension. ’ ’   ”I don’t understand it, and I don’t think that the president   appreciates the fact that when he says things like that, it helps   the credibility and prestige of this really outrageous   strongman,” McCain said, referring to Kim Jong Un. “I wish the   president would consider much more carefully his comments.” ’ ’   Trump sent shockwaves in the national security community after   calling Jong Un a ”smart cookie” and acknowledging that he would   be ”honored” to meet with him. To date, no sitting US president   has ever held a meeting with a current North Korean leader. ’ ’   ”If it would be appropriate for me to meet with him, I would   absolutely, I would be honored to do it,” Trump  on Monday. ”If it’’s under the, again, under the right   circumstances. But I would do that.” ’ ’   ”This is a dramatic departure from the kind of approach to   foreign policy and human rights that I’’d admired Ronald Reagan so   much for,” said McCain. ”It’’s disturbing because we are proud   Republicans and we stand for human rights.” ’ ’   Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright also criticized   Trump’’s remarks  Tuesday. ”A   president doesn’’t go to a country without any preparation, and   ’’honored’’ would definitely be the wrong way to discuss somebody   who is keeping his people in poverty and starving and control,”   Albright said on CNN’’s ”The Lead.” ’ ’   ”I think that part of the issue is that President Trump seems to   believe that he can have just    relationships,” Albright   said. ”And maybe that’’s possible in business, but that is not   something that is possible as president of the United States.” ’ ’ ’ ’Sen. John McCain rebuked President Donald. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’