’  ’ ’   Right before our eyes, commerce secretary and billionaire   investor Wilbur Ross is proving something economists have been   trying to tell Americans for years. ’ ’   That lesson: Business and economics are very different   disciplines  —   running a business and running a country are not   the same. ’ ’   And in fact there are a bunch of skills and modes of thought you   learn in business that could easily make you really bad at   governing. ’ ”   One of those is the administration’s obsession with trade   deficits. ” ’   ”We have the biggest [trade] deficits in the world,” Ross   complained at Bloomberg’’s Breakaway conference in New York City   on Wednesday, ”while protectionist countries have surpluses.” ’ ’   That is why, he explained, the president has ”superimposed”   handling trade and turning deficits into surpluses ”onto the   normal duties of his department.” That means aggressively   enforcing trade deals and slapping countries that ””   to be violating trade rules with tariffs and investigations. ’ ’   The problem is that trade deficits and surpluses have little to   do with the health of our economy. ’ ”   Ross is making a fairly common mistake. He’s acting as if the US   government operates like one of the businesses in his vast   network of holdings. It does not, and treating it like it does   will ultimately do more harm than good. ” ”   It’s not hard to see how this happens. Washington is full of   inane comparisons meant to sell Americans on this or that policy.   There’s the nonsensical comparison between the federal   government’s budget and a regular American family balancing their   checkbook over the kitchen table and so forth. ” ’   The Wall Street version of this is acting as if a $19 trillion   economy could be run like a business (and Ross is nothing if not   a creature of Wall Street). Thus the obsession,   oversimplification, and misunderstanding of trade deficits and   surpluses. ’ ”   If you were a business and you were buying more than you were   selling, you’d be in big trouble. But the US isn’t a business. ” ”   In fact, during the Great Depression, the US was running a trade   surplus. Mexico, during an economic rough patch in the 1980s,   also ran a trade surplus. Why? In part, because in both scenarios   foreign investors were not interested in sending capital to the   US or to Mexico respectively because their economies weren’t   healthy. ” ”   Now, a businessperson will tell you that when your business gets   a bunch of investment, you’ll run a surplus. That’s good, but a   country doesn’t work the same way. That’s because of the   interaction between trade and foreign investment in a country’s   . ” ’   The balance of payments is made up of a capital account, which   shows you the net change in physical or financial asset ownership    —   net foreign investment  —   for a nation, and the current account,   which is where trade lives  —   exports less the value of imports,   and any income we get from abroad or payouts for anything we   purchase. And in theory, the capital account has to balance out   the current account (although in practice there are usually some   discrepancies.) ’ ”   That is, when you’re talking about a country, foreign investment   doesn’t create a surplus, it actually creates a trade deficit.   That’s because the balance of payments must always be zero, so a   net positive foreign investment needs to be balanced out by a net   negative trade balance. ” ’   Paul Krugman explained this back in the : ’ ”   So OK, we may be running a trade deficit with China, but that’s   because our economy is healthy enough to purchase goods from   them. And it’s also attractive for them to invest in  —   which they   have to do to get to zero in their balance of payments. ” ’   Which is to say trade deficits do not matter in the grand scheme   of the US economy and its participation in the broader global   economy. ’ ’   ”At the root of the businessperson’s skepticism is the failure to   understand the force of the accounting,” Krugman wrote, ”which   says that an inflow of capital must —  not   might —  be accompanied by a trade deficit.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The confusion around trade deficits illustrates a broader problem   with the idea of ”running the country like a business.” ’ ”   In the same essay, Krugman tried to explain why businesspeople   might fall into the trap of oversimplifying the US’s incredibly   vast economy. Ultimately, he came to the conclusion that it comes   down to the basic principles of the job. Businesses are   constantly trying to innovate. You can micromanage. At the end of   the day, after all, you’re trying to make a product as   efficiently as possible. ” ’   But the government isn’’t like that. Instead of going in and   fixing this or that, you have to work on a set of guiding   principles and create policy around those principles. The US is,   as Krugman said, ”a nightmare conglomerate” of hundreds of   thousands of interconnected but unrelated enterprises. That means   drilling into one industry will have consequences for others the   government may not even see. ’ ’   Let’’s use an example Ross himself mentioned at Bloomberg. He said   that when he was running his business he thought tariffs were   more often than not a ”nuisance.” That was, of course, until he   got into the steel business and President George W. Bush slapped   tariffs on steel from other countries in 2002. Those tariffs,   said Ross, saved 100, 000 jobs. ’ ’   Okay. But according to a report by the  a year later, those tariffs   also did a lot of damage. ’ ’   ”200, 000 Americans lost their jobs to higher steel prices during   2002. These lost jobs represent approximately $4 billion in lost   wages from February to November 2002,” said the report. ”More   American workers lost their jobs in 2002 to higher steel prices   than the total number employed by the US steel industry itself   (187, 500 Americans were employed by US steel producers in   December 2002).” ’ ’   That’’s what happens when you micromanage the US economy. Ross   said that the Trump administration would go after ”big numbers,   big products, big countries,” while at the same time admitting   that its policies would mostly be bringing back 500 jobs here and   there. ’ ”   Trump’s entire trade policy is too hands on, picking individual   pieces to fix rather than adhering to general principles. Dare we   say it, this is the worst kind of big government interference and     one can imagine. ” ’   In fact, the entire ”America First” executive order  —   forcing   businesses to micromanage what they’’re buying and who they’’re   hiring  —   is an overreach tantamount to the most onerous   regulation. ’ ’   Growing the number of people working good paying jobs is what   really causes GDP growth by adding to labor force participation   and increasing productivity. To do that, you have to educate your   population for the jobs of the future, not grab onto jobs of the   past. When it comes to manufacturing, those jobs are getting more   and more advanced  —   the people in factories are being trained to   work with increasingly complex machinery. ’ ”   The US’s actual jobs of the future are in services  —   like in   education and healthcare (especially with our aging population).   Building a workforce for this is a long game, way longer than the     game most CEOs play. ” ”   This shows something weird about Ross: You’d think that a   businessman would probably move in the direction of growth. You’d   think that a businessman would try to innovate and adapt rather   than try to save a dying arm of his company. But when it comes to   America, Ross is not doing that. In this sense, he and his   fellows are behaving not like businessmen or economists or policy   wonks, but rather more like rabid ideologues. It’s a shame and   waste of time. ” ’Right before our eyes, commerce secretary and. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’