’  ’ ’   Friday is jobs day in America.  ’ ’   Economists are anticipating a rebound in job growth after an   unexpected dip in March capped off what we now know was the    for the US economy in three years.  ’ ”   Via Bloomberg, here’s what Wall Street is expecting for   April:  ” ’   To recap, the economy added 98, 000 jobs in March and the   unemployment rate fell to a postcrisis low of 4. 5%. That rate   supports the view that the economy is near full employment: a   situation in which most workers actively looking for a   job have one. It also means the pace of job creation could   slow and wages could go up.  ’ ’   Average hourly earnings rose 2. 7%    just below the     record of 2. 8% set in February. That’’s likely part   of what prompted the Federal Reserve to conclude in  that the underlying drivers of   consumption are ”solid,” and   weakness was   ”transitory.” The Fed will have the April and May jobs reports on   hand before its meeting next month at which markets expect   it will raise interest rates.  ’ ’’ ’   In March, the  was unchanged from the prior   month at 63%. ”One group that has been rejoining the labor force   is prime age (ages  ) men and women without a college   degree,” said Nomura’’s Lewis Alexander in a note. ’ ’   ”This group accounted for about half of the overall decline   in the LFPR from December 2007 to March 2015.” The gain since   then is small compared to the   drop, but could be a   reason why participation may not fall in the coming months,   Alexander said.   ’ ’   The manufacturing sector added 11, 000 jobs in March, helped in   part by more comfortable weather for outdoor work.  ’ ’   ”A risk to the forecast this month involves the possibility   that payback from warm winter may be distributed over   multiple months and will spill into April, dampening growth,”   Alexander said.   ’ ’   Weather aside, retail lost nearly 30, 000 jobs and the vast   majority were in large department stores. Several of them are   shutting down or at risk of closing as ecommerce booms. The job   losses in February and March marked the  since November and December 2009, and   is showing scant signs of slowing down. ’ ’   The monthly  on layoff   announcements released Thursday showed retail in the clear lead      with 50, 133 cuts.  ’ ’Friday is jobs day in America.  Economists. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’