’  ’ ’   Warren Buffett thinks that the US healthcare system is broken. ’ ’   The legendary investor said costs for healthcare have exploded in   the US and are holding back business growth. ’ ’   Buffett pointed out corporate tax payments as a percentage of GDP   have shrunk from 4% in 1960 to just 2% now. On the other hand,   medical costs have ballooned from 5% of GDP to 17% of GDP   currently. ’ ’   ”Medical costs are the tapeworm of American economic   competitiveness,” Buffett said. ’ ’  ’ ’’ ’   The Berkshire Hathaway CEO also said that for his own business,   ”the tax system is not crippling our business around the world,”   but the burden of healthcare costs make it more   difficult to do business. ’ ”   Additionally, in regards to the American Health Care Act  —   the   bill passed by the House on Thursday to repeal and replace   Obamacare  —   Buffett did not offer a forward prediction on how it   would impact people’s healthcare but he did say it had one direct   impact on him. ” ’   ”The net effect of that act is that my federal income taxes   would have gone down, down 17% last year,” Buffett said. ’ ’   ”It’’s a huge tax cut for guys like me.” ’ ’   Buffett went on to say that the AHCA will lower taxes   significantly for people making over $250, 000 that have   large investment income.  ’ ’   ”That means one of two things, either the deficit goes up, or   someone else’’s taxes do,” Buffett said. ’ ’   Charlie Munger, Buffett’’s partner, also decried incentives   for healthcare providers to charge ever higher costs   for procedures with questionable impact, saying there is ”too   much chemotherapy on people that are basically dead.” ’ ’   ”A lot of it is greatly immoral,” Munger said. ”You have a   lot of doctors and hospitals that are feasting on a dying   person like jackals on a carcass.” ’ ’   While Munger and Buffett did not offer particular policy   solutions, they did say that the issue is being dealt with   poorly by politicians on both sides of the aisle. ’ ’   ”Both parties hate each other so much that neither one of them   can think rationally,” Munger said. ’ ’Warren Buffett thinks that the US healthcare. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’