’  ’ ’   When the   flies over friendly countries for overseas   deployments, you may notice some strange tags on the body of the   otherwise sleek jet. ’ ’  ’ ’   Every angle and surface of the   has been precisely machined   to baffle radar waves, so little notches like the ones on the   picture above would defeat the purpose of the weapons system that   has cost about $400 billion so far. ’ ”   Here’s the Marine Corps’   flying clean: ” ’  ’ ”   The notches, which are called  serve a purpose. The reflectors increase the    ’s radar signature several hundred times over so that a plane   that would normally be nearly impossible for civilian air traffic   controllers to spot would give off a big, safe blip. ” ”   Perhaps the   above didn’t need the reflectors because it   took off from the sea, away from potential spotters. ” ’   In addition to helping friendly nations spot the stealth jet, the   markers on the   may serve another, more military purpose. ’ ”   In October 2015, days after Russia began its air campaign to   bolster Syrian President Bashar Assad’s forces, national security   writer  that Russia may have been using its     systems to gather intelligence on the   another US stealth   aircraft operating in Syria. ” ’   ”While it appears the Russians are following their standard   doctrine with regard to the   of their ground   and air assets, it’’s certainly not out of the question to use   their newer    assets as a form of ’’operational testing’’   in the   environment,” one senior US Air Force   intelligence official told Majumdar at the time. ”In a sense,   we’’re doing the same thing with our  .” ’ ’  ’ ’   Russia operates the same ground and air assets in Syria as it   does in eastern Europe, near Estonia, where the  wearing the radar reflectors. ’ ”   With the reflectors throwing off and exaggerating the radar cross   section of the   the US could be preventing Russia from   testing its defenses against the US’s newest weapons system. ” ’When the   flies over friendly countries for. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’