’  ’ ”   Warren Buffett said that the biggest failure of   the Wells Fargo fake accounts scandal should be laid at   former CEO John Stumpf’s feet. ” ’  ’ ’   During the Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting, Buffett addressed   the scandal by breaking down three big problems.  ’ ’   ”There were three very significant mistakes, but there was one   that dwarfs all the others.” said Buffett ’ ’   The first mistake was creating an incentive structure that   rewarded bad behavior. ’ ’’ ’   Wells Fargo advocated   in which employees were   judged based on how many extra financial products they could sell   to each customer. ’ ’   ”Clearly at Wells Fargo there was an incentive system built   around cross selling and services per customer,” Buffett said   ”Undoubtedly people got paid, graded, and rewarded based on that   system. .. it turns out that was incentivizing the wrong   behavior.” ’ ’   The second, and biggest mistake, according to Buffett was when   executives found out about the scandal, former CEO John Stumpf   did not do enough about the issue.  Stumpf knew about the   systemic issue as far back as 2012, but did not take substantial   action. ’ ’   ”The biggest mistake was, obviously I don’’t know all the facts,   but at some point if there is a major problem will get to the CEO   and at that point the CEO has to act,” Buffett said. ’ ’   ”It had to stop when the CEO learns about it,” Buffett continued. ’ ’  ’ ’   The third mistake, Buffett said, was that the bank underestimated   the fall out and public backlash. ”They totally   underestimated the impact of what they had done,” Buffett said. ’ ’   In the end, however, Buffett said the issue came down to not   doing enough about the scandal when they found out about it. ’ ’   ”The main problem was they didn’’t act when they learned about   it,” the legendary investor concluded. ’ ’   Wells Fargo is one of the largest holdings of Berkshire Hathaway.   In fact, Berkshire applied to the Federal Reserve in order to own   more than 10% of the bank, but  after determining the   additional regulation associated with owning more of the bank was   too burdensome. ’ ”UPDATE: Wells Fargo sent Business   Insider the following statement on Buffett’s comments: ” ’Warren Buffett said that the biggest. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’