’  ’ ”     The Republican Party won control of government promising help.     Help for the unemployed, help for the uninsured; help for the     struggling, help for the anxious. But help isn’t on its agenda.     The plan, instead, is cruelty.   ” ’     It’s how we get the American Health Care Act, a profoundly     nasty bill whose callousness is just barely matched by its     shoddy, haphazard construction. ’ ’     Here is what the AHCA, deemed “Trumpcare,” would do : Allow states to waive coverage for “essential     health benefits” like hospitalization, maternity care, and     mental health coverage; allow discrimination against people     with   conditions like asthma, cancer, and other     ailments without a safety net for Americans priced out of the     individual market; allow employers to hollow out health     benefits for their employees,  for the     millions of Americans who receive it through their jobs;      that helps give care to children in special     education classes; and not least, it would cut Medicaid     spending and end the Medicaid expansion, taking $880 billion     from the program.   ’ ’     The AHCA isn’t a health care bill as much as it is a vehicle     for upward redistribution, taking from the bottom to give to     the very top.   ’ ’     Under the original AHCA, 24 million people would  by the end of the decade,     relative to the status quo. We don’t have an outlook for this     latest, and final, version from the House; desperate to pass     the bill and avoid further scrutiny, House Republicans have     ignored the Congressional Budget Office and kept the text of     the bill from public view. But when you’ve ended protections     for   conditions and destabilized individual and     group markets, it’s a virtual guarantee that even more     Americans will lose health insurance on top of those 24     million.   ’ ’     That’s millions of   Americans, unable to pay for     basic —  but often   —  care. That’s millions of American     women,      for health insurance because they were once pregnant, or     abused, or raped.  many in communities that voted for Donald Trump     and back Republican lawmakers, who can’t purchase or afford     insurance because of their addiction. That’s someone struggling     with mental health issues, now deemed a high risk for insurers.     That’s countless Americans who, through chance or fate, live     with injuries and disorders and diseases that will leave them     uninsurable without the protections of the Affordable Care Act.   ’ ’     All of this is being done not to improve the American health     care system or deliver better (or cheaper) care —  as House     Speaker Paul Ryan continuously and falsely insists —  but to     . The AHCA, in other words, isn’t a     health care bill as much as it is a vehicle for upward     redistribution, taking from the bottom to give to the very top.   ’ ’  ’ ’     On Thursday, House Republicans  217 to 214, marking their triumph with applause and     celebration. In their minds, they’re fulfilling their promise     to “repeal and replace” the Affordable Care Act, delivering on     nearly a decade of rhetoric. It’s unclear if the Senate will     even consider this specific proposal, much less vote on it.   ’ ’     Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has  that his chamber will wait on a score from the     Congressional Budget Office, an early sign, perhaps, that     Senate Republicans have little interest in assisting their     House counterparts. (Some Senate Republicans have also already     indicated that they will be  but who knows how much of the House version     will ultimately be incorporated.)   ’ ’     In the meantime, President Trump      the House vote with a ceremony in the Rose Garden, praising a     bill that trashes every promise he made during his campaign,     that harms millions for the sake of a wealthy few. “This is a     great plan, I actually think it will get even better,” Trump     said, before stating outright what passage of the bill was     actually about —  fulfilling a campaign promise. “Make no mistake,     this is a repeal and replace of Obamacare. ”   ’ ’     Whatever comes next, we can still now pass judgment on House     Republicans. From its crafting and introduction to its passage,     what we’ve witnessed from Ryan and his caucus is an  for process, truth, and their own constituents.   ’ ’     Like the Affordable Care Act before it, the American Health     Care Act reorganizes   of our economy. But unlike the     ACA, which was signed after a year of public hearings and     fierce debates, the AHCA was slapped together in secret with     little regard for the consequences or knowledge of its effects.   ’ ’     When pressed on its contents, lawmakers      content to vote in ignorance for a bill whose defining feature     is, again, its profound cruelty. And when asked about this —  when     asked about the distance between their rhetoric and what we     know about the proposal —  Republicans simply lied. “We’re not     taking a benefit away,”  to CNN on Thursday. “Nobody on     Medicaid is going to be taken away. ” This isn’t true. Little     which Republican advocates have said about the bill has been     true.   ’ ’     Indeed, if there’s a single worst actor in this drama, it is     Ryan, whose reputation for personal integrity and political     competence have little basis in reality.   ’ ’     Throughout, Ryan has  spinning the AHCA as a net benefit for     Americans, when it’s anything but. And he’s done this in     service of his central agenda: tax cuts and the evisceration of     a safety net he once blasted as a “hammock” that lulls     Americans to “dependence. ” Most Americans oppose this rhetoric,     which is why Ryan and his party have to lie to sell their     program of slashing insurance for the poor to fund tax cuts for     the rich.   ’ ’     Ryan and his singular drive are emblematic of the party he     leads. The GOP is well in the grip of an ideological mania,     committed to a rigid and hierarchical vision of America, where     help comes only to those who deserve it, and where the     “deserving” are a small, select group, chosen by the market, or     defined by their inherited wealth and privilege. If the     American Health Care Act is a callous and destructive bill,     it’s because it come from a party that’s made cruelty its     cardinal virtue.   ’ ’ *Correction, May 5, 2017: This article     originally misstated that House Republicans passed the     Affordable Health Care Act. It is the American Health Care Act.     (.) ’ ’The Republican Party won control of government. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’