’  ’ ’   Struggling restaurant chains are turning to a new   strategy to try and appeal to customers: delivery.  ’ ’   In the era of GrubHub and Seamless, convenience is increasingly   important in the restaurant business. ’ ’   Americans order 1. 7 billion meals online every year and     of people claim to have ordered a meal via   delivery in the past three months, according to the NPD   Group.  ’ ”   Meanwhile, restaurants are struggling to convince customers to   eat out. In the first quarter of 2017,       sales dropped 1. 1% while traffic fell 3. 4% according   to  In the last year, companies   operating chains such as Logan’s Roadhouse and Souplantation   have filed for bankruptcy.  that Ignite Restaurant Group  —   which   runs Joe’s Crab Shack and Brick House Tavern  —   could do the   same as early as next week. ” ’   As traffic drops, restaurant chains are increasingly looking to   delivery as a solution.  ’ ”   McDonald’s is testing delivery through UberEats in multiple   cities across the US, with the most recent trial run in   Pittsburgh  On Monday, Wendy’s launched   delivery at  And, Panera Bread is rolling out   delivery at 35 to 40% of its locations this year, the company   announced in January.  ” ’   Delivery is especially crucial for casual dining, or     restaurant chains, which have been  by the restaurant recession. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The only part of casual dining that’s growing right now is the   off premise side,” said Bonnie Riggs, foodservice industry   analyst for NPD,  ’ ”   Cheesecake Factory  it is expanding   delivery to half of its 194 US locations through DoorDash, a   third party delivery service. T. G. I. Fridays, Chili’s, and   Maggiano’s are all now on Grubhub, and Buffalo Wild Wings   and Red Robin are  Outback Steakhouse is using both     services and  ” ”   While delivery is clearly a compelling option to offer, it isn’t   a simple service for restaurants to add. Customers often  especially at casual   dining chains that rely on alcohol orders to drive sales.     delivery means added complexities, paying drivers, and   additional insurance costs. Using a   means losing   control over the food’s quality. ” ”   Taco Bell’s CEO Brian Niccol  that delivery is customers’ No. 1   demand at the chain. Despite several tests, the Mexican     chain hasn’t figured out a way to make the service work.  ” ’   ”The third party folks, the aggregators  —   they’’re just not fast   enough,” Niccol said.  ’ ”   However, as customers’ demand for convenience grows,   chains are increasingly going to have to invest in delivery    —   or be beaten by restaurants that have.  ” ’Struggling restaurant chains are turning. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’