’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump’’s  who was leading an   investigation into whether Trump’’s campaign colluded with Russia   during the 2016 election, would be viewed as ”suicidal” in any   other administration. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Republican Sen. Richard Burr, the chairman of the Senate   Intelligence Committee, said he was ”troubled by the timing and   reasoning of Director Comey’s termination.” He added that   Comey’s firing “further confuses an already difficult   investigation by the Committee” into Trump’’s Russia ties.  ’ ’     ’ ’   Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal agreed: ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Others called for a select, bipartisan congressional commission   to further the   probe. ’ ’  ’ ’”I have long called for a special   congressional committee to investigate Russia’’s interference in   the 2016 election. The president’’s decision to remove the FBI   Director only confirms the need and the urgency of such a   committee. ” ’ ”   Sessions and Rosenstein said in their statements that they   recommended firing Comey because of how he handled the   investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email server. But New York   Times reporter Michael Schmidt reported that Sessions    to fire Comey for at least a week. ” ’  ’ ’   Comey testified last week before the Senate Judiciary Committee,   which oversees the FBI, about his handling of the Clinton and     investigations. He reiterated that he felt he   handled both appropriately, but t that his decision to revisit the Clinton   email investigation on October 28 might have swayed the   outcome of the election. ’ ’  ’ ’ill have any material   effect on the   circle investigation.” ’ ’   ”The FBI and DOJ are staffed with serious professionals who are   impossible to intimidate,” Deitz said. ”If they feel   that their investigation is being thwarted in any way, they   will leak like hell to people like you.” ’ ’   Deitz referred to President Richard Nixon’’s ”Saturday Night   Massacre,” in which he fired the independent special prosecutor,   Archie Cox, who had been appointed by   General   Elliot Richardson to investigate the events surrounding the   Watergate  . Nixon initially asked Richardson to dismiss   Cox, but he refused to do so and resigned in protest instead,   along with   Attorney General  ’ ’   As in the Watergate scandal, Deitz said, ”the firing of Archie   Cox, Elliot Richardson, and William Ruckelshaus caused only a   temporary blip in the investigation. In fact, it probably   energized it.”  ’ ”   Regardless of agents’ leaking, however, whomever Trump appoints   to lead the FBI will be able to halt the probe at his or her   will. It will be up to Rosenstein  —   who recommended that Comey be   fired  —   to appoint a special counsel to oversee the   investigation. He  he will not do that   until he reviews all of the facts of the case and determines   that it would be necessary.  ” ’   Susan Hennessey, a former National Security Agency lawyer and      of Lawfare blog,    on Tuesday that   she has ”not previously called for a special prosecutor,   believing that Rosenstein was a person of integrity who should be   given a chance to make a call on that question. His performance   today, however, requires that he now step aside.” ’ ’   ”He cannot credibly lead this investigation any longer,”   Hennessey added, ”and leaders of both parties must make sure he   steps aside for an independent prosecutor who can.” ’ ”President Donald Trump’s decision to. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’