’ President Donald Trump fired James Comey as director       of the FBI ’ ’   President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey on Tuesday,   the White House said. ’ ’   ”Today, President Donald J. Trump informed FBI Director James   Comey that he has been terminated and removed from office,” White   House press secretary Sean Spicer said in a statement. ”President   Trump acted based on the clear recommendations of both Deputy   Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff   Sessions.” ’ ’   The search for a new director will begin immediately, Spicer   said. ’ ’   ”The FBI is one of our nation’s most cherished and respected   institutions and today will mark a new beginning for our crown   jewel of law enforcement,” Trump said in the statement. ’ ’   In a letter sent to Comey, Trump said he accepted the   recommendation of Sessions and Rosenstein. His termination is   effective immediately. ’ ’   ”While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate   occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless   concur with judgment of the Department of Justice that you are   not able to effectively lead the Bureau,” Trump wrote. ”It is   essential that we find new leadership for the FBI that restores   public trust and confidence in its vital law enforcement   mission.” ’ ’   Rosenstein, in his letter to Sessions, pointed to Comey’’s July   2016 public announcement of his recommendation regarding the   investigation into   Democratic presidential   nominee Hillary Clinton’’s use of a private email server while she   served as secretary of state. The deputy attorney general said   Comey was ”wrong to usurp the attorney general’’s authority” by   going public with the FBI’’s recommendation to not bring charges   forth against Clinton for her use of the server. ’ ’   ”It is not the function of the director to make such an   announcement,” Rosenstein wrote. ”At most, the director should   have said the FBI had completed its investigation and presented   its findings to federal prosecutors. The director now defends his   decision by asserting that he believed Attorney General Loretta   Lynch had a conflict. But the FBI director is never empowered to   supplant federal prosecutors and assume command of the Justice   Department.” ’ ’   Rosenstein wrote that the FBI suffered ”substantial damage” to   its credibility in the past year as a result of Comey’’s actions   related to the Clinton investigation. The deputy attorney   general added that he does not ”understand [Comey’’s] refusal to   accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken” in his   handling of the Clinton email investigation. ’ ’   ”Almost everyone agrees that the director made serious mistakes;   it is one of the few issues that unites people of diverse   perspectives,” he said. ’ ’   He called the July press conference a ”textbook example of what   federal prosecutors and agents are taught not to do.” ’ ”   Rosenstein also criticized Comey’s handling of his October   28 letter to congressional leaders announcing a reopening of the   Clinton investigation based on emails recovered from former   Rep. Anthony Weiner’s computer. Weiner was married to top   Clinton aide Huma Abedin, who the FBI said forwarded two email   chains onto his computer for printing purposes. ” ’   Citing Comey’’s testimony last week, Rosenstein said Comey made a   false assertion that his only choice was to either ”speak” on or   ”conceal” what he uncovered. The information later turned   out to not be sufficient to move forward with the investigation   and led to a subsequent FBI announcement days before the November   election that the investigation would remain closed. ’ ’   ”When federal agents and prosecutors quietly open a criminal   investigation, we are not concealing anything; we are simply   following the longstanding policy that we refrain from   publicizing   information. In that context, silence is   not concealment,” Rosenstein said. ’ ’   Rosenstein also cited past DOJ officials who agreed with his   assessment of Comey. ’ ’  ’ ’   Sessions, in his letter to Trump, said he ”concluded” it was time   for a ”fresh start” at the FBI after reviewing Rosenstein’’s   letter. ’ ’   ”It is essential that this Department of Justice clearly reaffirm   its commitment to longstanding principles that ensure the   integrity and fairness of federal investigations and   prosecutions,” Sessions said. ”The director of the FBI must be   someone who follows faithfully the rules and principles of the   Department of Justice and who sets the right examples for our law   enforcement officials and others in the department.” ’ ’   ”Therefore, I must recommend that you remove Director James B.   Comey, Jr. and identify an experienced and qualified individual   to lead the great men and women of the FBI,” he continued. ’ ’   Comey becomes just the second FBI director in history to be fired   from the post. In 1993, President Bill Clinton fired FBI Director   William S. Sessions, who was a holdover from the prior   administrations of Presidents George H. W. Bush and Ronald Reagan. ’ ”   One of the most controversial government figures, Comey was   blasted by both the left and the right for his handling of the   Clinton email investigation and the FBI’s investigation   into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election  —   and   whether there was any collusion between Trump associates and   Russia. ” ”   In testimony before the House Intelligence Committee in March,   Comey publicly announced the existence of the FBI’s investigation   into possible ties between Trump associates and Russian officials   making an effort to influence the presidential election. ” ’   Trump has repeatedly called the   controversy   casting a cloud over his administration a ”total hoax,” something   he repeated Monday following congressional testimony from former   acting Attorney General Sally Yates and   of National   Intelligence James Clapper. ’ ’  ’ ’   In a statement shortly after the announcement, Republican Sen.   Lindsey Graham of South Carolina called the move ”a difficult   decision for all concerned.” ’ ’   ”I appreciate Director Comey’s service to our nation in a variety   of roles,” he said in the statement. ”Given the recent   controversies surrounding the director, I believe a fresh start   will serve the FBI and the nation well. I encourage the president   to select the most qualified professional available who will   serve our nation’s interests.” ’ ’   Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary   Committee, said Trump called her at 5:30 p. m. ET to alert her of   the firing, ”saying the FBI needed a change.” ’ ’   ”The next FBI director must be strong and independent and will   receive a fair hearing in the Judiciary Committee,” Feinstein   said. ’ ’   Democratic Rep. Eric Swalwell, who has gained prominence as a   member of the House Intelligence Committee, blasted Trump   for his decision to oust Comey and called it the ”Tuesday   Afternoon Massacre.” He was referencing the infamous ”Saturday   Night Massacre” during President Richard Nixon’’s term in office,   when Nixon fired the independent special prosecutor   investigating the Watergate scandal, which led to subsequent   resignations from his attorney general and deputy attorney   general. ’ ’   ”President Trump’s decision to fire FBI Director James Comey  —     who less than two months ago told the House Intelligence   Committee that the president and his administration were the   subject of criminal and counterintelligence investigations   regarding their close personal, political and financial ties to   Russia and Russia’s active interference in our 2016 presidential   election on Trump’s behalf  —   should send a chill down the spine   of every American, no matter who they voted for,” he said in a   statement. ”This is not what an innocent person would do; this is   an abuse of power, and shows a consciousness of guilt.” ’ ”   Like Swalwell, a number of prominent Democrats made   comparisons to Nixon and the Watergate scandal. Many   called for the appointment of a special prosecutor,   suggesting to the FBI’s investigation into the Trump   campaign was the reason for Comey’s ouster, not the     rationale outlined by the Trump administration. ” ’   ”No matter what the Trump propaganda machine puts out there, the   president just fired the man in charge of investigating his   campaign,” Jason Kander, the 2016 Democratic Senate nominee in   Missouri, .   Sen Dick Durbin of Illinois said ”any attempt to stop or   undermine this FBI investigation would raise grave constitutional   issues.” And Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said the   firing ”catastrophically compromised the FBI’s ongoing   investigation of his own White House’s ties to Russia.” ’ ’   ”Not since Watergate have our legal systems been so threatened,   and our faith in the independence and integrity of those systems   so shaken,” he said in a statement. ”The only way to restore   faith in a     FBI is to appoint an   independent special prosecutor.” ’ ’   Trump and Comey have had a complicated relationship. In January,   two days into his presidency, Trump gave Comey a hug during a   meeting with law enforcement and security officials at the White   House.  ’ ’   ”He’’s become more famous than me,” . ’ ”   During the campaign, Trump at times expressed praise for Comey   while at others expressing disdain for his handling of the email   investigation. Trump’s feelings on Comey swayed with the   director’s moves on the investigation. ” ’   ”Hillary and the Dems loved and praised FBI Director Comey just a   few days ago,” Trump tweeted after Comey sent his October letter   to Congressional leaders. ”Original evidence was overwhelming,   should not have delayed!” ’ ’   Just last week, Trump said Comey was great to Clinton. ’ ’   ”FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to   Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad   deeds!” he tweeted. ”The phony . .. . ..   story   was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing   the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign?” ’ ’President Donald Trump fired James Comey as. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’