’  ’ ’   A memo from the US deputy attorney general explained that FBI   Director James Comey was fired because the FBI’’s reputation and   credibility had ”suffered substantial damage” after Comey   ”usurp[ed] the Attorney General’’s authority” and announced that   an investigation into Hillary Clinton’’s emails should be closed   without prosecution. ’ ’   The White House    that President Donald Trump had fired James Comey on the basis of   recommendations of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and   Attorney General Jeff Sessions. ’ ’   In a memo to Sessions, Rosenstein laid out the reasoning for   firing Comey. ’ ’   Rosenstein said that over the past year, ”the FBI’’s   reputation and credibility have suffered substantial damage” that   has ”affected the entire Department of Justice.” ’ ’   ”I cannot defend the Director’’s handling of the conclusion of the   investigation of Secretary Clinton’’s emails, and I do not   understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment   that he was mistaken,” Rosenstein said. ”Almost everyone agrees   that the Director made serious mistakes; it is one of the few   issues that unites people of diverse perspectives.” ’ ’   He pointed to Comey’’s  of the FBI’’s view that ”no charges are   appropriate” in the Justice Department’’s investigation into     Democratic presidential nominee Hillary   Clinton’’s use of a private email server while she served as   secretary of state. ’ ’   The deputy attorney general said Comey was ”wrong to usurp the   attorney general’’s authority” by going public with the   FBI’’s recommendation. ’ ’   ”It is not the function of the director to make such an   announcement,” Rosenstein wrote. ”At most, the director should   have said the FBI had completed its investigation and presented   its findings to federal prosecutors. The director now defends his   decision by asserting that he believed Attorney General Loretta   Lynch had a conflict. But the FBI director is never empowered to   supplant federal prosecutors and assume command of the Justice   Department.” ’ ’   Comey  that Lynch’’s tarmac meeting with President   Bill Clinton in late June caused him to worry that   Department of Justice leadership ”could not credibly complete the   investigation and decline prosecution without grievous damage to   the American people’’s confidence in the justice system.” ’ ’ ’ ’ Allan Smith contributed to this report. ’ ’A memo from the US deputy attorney general. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’