’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s  on Tuesday sent shockwaves   through Washington and the American public. ” ”   Almost as soon as the news broke,  between Comey’s firing and the events   leading up Watergate. ” ’   ”President Trump’’s firing of Director Comey sets a deeply   alarming precedent as multiple investigations into possible Trump   campaign or administration collusion with Russia remain ongoing,   including an FBI investigation,” Sen. Edward Markey of   Massachusetts said in a statement. ’ ’   ”This episode is disturbingly reminiscent of the Saturday Night   Massacre during the Watergate scandal and the national turmoil   that it caused.” ’ ’   Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said in a statement that   ”not since Watergate have our legal systems been so threatened   and our faith in the independence and integrity of those systems   so shaken.” ’ ”   But experts say there are some ways in which Comey’s firing could   be bigger than Watergate, and they hinge on Trump’s reasoning in   removing Comey. ” ’   Glenn Carle, a former CIA   officer and     expert, said it would be ”catastrophic” if   Trump had fired Comey because he was angry about the . ’ ’   ”Watergate was huge, but it was based on a criminal charge,” he   told Business Insider. He said Trump’’s firing of Comey during the   investigation would be ”borderline betrayal” and a critical   threat to national security if it were based on the Russia probe. ’ ”   Richard Painter, who was the chief ethics lawyer for President   George W. Bush, also expressed suspicion about Comey’s firing and   said Trump’s move was an abuse of presidential power. ” ’   ”We cannot tolerate this  —   for the president to be firing people   who are investigating him and his campaign and its collusion with   the Russians,” Painter . ’ ’   ”It’’s a lot worse than Watergate,” he said. ”Watergate was a     burglary. It was purely domestic in nature. This   situation involves Russian espionage, and we’’ve got to find out   who is collaborating.” ’ ’   Painter later told CNN, ”We didn’’t have to worry about treason in   the Watergate situation.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The president, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Deputy Attorney   General Rod Rosenstein, and several administration officials have   said the decision had nothing to do with the Russia probe. ’ ”   They say Comey was fired because he mishandled the FBI’s   investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email   server while she was secretary of state, and that it had . ” ”   But pundits and critics, as well as some members of Trump’s   circle, have cast doubt on that line of reasoning and said they   were troubled by the timing of Comey’s firing. ” ”   Two advisers  that   Trump was furious about the investigation and frustrated he   couldn’t control the media narrative around it and that he asked   why it wouldn’t disappear. One adviser said the president would   occasionally scream at the TV during news clips about the probe. ” ’   Fox News host Charles Krauthammer said it was ”implausible” Trump   had fired Comey because of the Clinton email investigation. ’ ’   ”If that was so offensive to the Trump administration, what you   would have done during the transition is you would have spoken to   Comey and said, ’’We’’re going to let you go,’’” Krauthammer said. ’ ’   Based on the timing of Comey’’s firing, ”the obvious inference   seems to be that Trump is upset about the investigation,” Robert   Deitz, a former top lawyer at the CIA and National Security   Agency, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”If it turns out that the Russia thing is bigger than or as big   as people have speculated, then this is a threat to democracy,”   Deitz said. He added that if more evidence of Trump associates’’   ties to Russia emerged, Comey’’s firing would ”certainly be bigger   than Watergate.” ’ ”   But if Trump’s fury about the Russia probe were a motivation for   terminating Comey, he likely would be disappointed. ” ’  ’ ’   Regardless of whether Comey is leading the FBI, it will continue   its investigations, one FBI official  on Wednesday. ’ ”   And Comey’s firing could further energize the investigation, as   Archibald Cox’s did during the Watergate scandal. ” ’   ”There are so many people now working on this issue, and this   firing is going to do nothing but encourage that,” Deitz said. He   added that Comey’’s firing would ”barely be a blip on the radar”   of career professionals investigating the president’’s associates. ’ ”   Comey’s dismissal could also accelerate the steady drip of   sensitive information being leaked to the press, Deitz said  —   and   there already seems to be evidence of that. ” ’   Shortly after news broke that Comey had been fired,  that a   grand jury had issued subpoenas to associates of Michael Flynn,   the former national security adviser, who is involved in the     probe. On Wednesday, The New York Times reported   that days before he was fired, Comey  led by Sessions and Rosenstein, for more resources   for the investigation. ’ ’   ”People are going to be absolutely all over this Russia thing,   just because they think nobody would do this unless there’’s   something really bad underneath it all,” Deitz said. ’ ”President Donald Trump’s bombshell decision to. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’