’  ’ ’   The White House has been scrambling to explain why President   Donald Trump  on Tuesday, a shocking move that left the bureau   reeling and drew bipartisan criticism from members of Congress. ’ ”   The administration’s rationale for dismissing Comey, however, has   gradually shifted. But the final straw appears to have been   Trump’s    with Comey after his testimony last week before the Senate   Judiciary Committee. ” ’   ”After watching Director Comey’’s testimony last Wednesday, the   president was strongly inclined to remove him,” the White House   said as part of a ”timeline” of the president’’s     process. ’ ’  ’ ”   Two letters addressed to Trump from Sessions and his deputy,   Rosenstein, outlining Comey’s mishandling of the investigation   into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server were   initially presented as the impetus for Trump’s firing of Comey.   White House press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters on Tuesday   that the Department of Justice  —   specifically Rosenstein  —   had   determined Comey needed to go because of how he handled that   probe. ” ”   Trump as a candidate had expressed support for at least one event   that in Rosenstein’s letter was presented as evidence of   misconduct: Comey’s decision to revisit the investigation 11 days   before the election. ” ’   But White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders   said in a press briefing on Wednesday that the letters Trump   received on Tuesday outlining ”” Comey committed ”in circumventing the chain   of command of the Department of Justice” persuaded Trump to fire   the director. ’ ”   Over the next day, Rosenstein   —   after only two weeks on the job  —   because he was   made out to be the administration’s fall guy. The Justice   Department on Thursday denied that Rosenstein had made the   threat. ” ”   Meanwhile, multiple reports emerged that said Trump was incensed   at Comey for implying in an open Senate hearing last week that   Clinton may have won if he hadn’t reopened the probe on October   28. ” ’  ’ ’   ”It makes me mildly nauseous to think that we might have had some   impact on the election,” Comey told the Senate Judiciary   Committee as he was explaining his decision to notify Congress   that the FBI was reopening the Clinton investigation. ’ ’   That comment angered Trump, who ”complained, with expletives,”   about it, . ’ ’   Trump made his displeasure with Comey clear even before the   director testified, saying in two tweets the night before the   hearing that Comey ”was the best thing that ever happened to   Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad   deeds. The phony . ..   story was an excuse used by the   Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump   just ran a great campaign?” ’ ’   The next day, Comey confirmed in the open  —   and televised  —     hearing that the FBI was still investigating whether there was   ”any coordination” between the Trump campaign and Russian   officials. Comey had not allowed the White House to preview his   testimony, which Trump and his aides considered ”an act of   insubordination,” . The New York Times  saying Trump was broadly irked by his   inability to gain assurances of loyalty from Comey. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Amid the flood of reports about what prompted Trump to fire   Comey, the administration acknowledged Wednesday that Comey’s   testimony was part of Trump’s decision. ” ’   ”The president, over the last few months, lost confidence in   Director Comey,” the White House said in a statement to reporters   on Wednesday night. ’ ’   ”After watching Director Comey’’s testimony last Wednesday, the   president was strongly inclined to remove him. On Monday, the   president met with the attorney general and the deputy attorney   general, and they discussed reasons for removing the director.   The next day, Tuesday, May 9, the deputy attorney general sent   his written recommendation to the attorney general, and the   attorney general sent his written recommendation to the   president.” ’ ”   Rosenstein’s letter outlined his concerns about Comey, but it did   not explicitly recommend he be fired. ” ’The White House has been scrambling to explain. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’