’  ’ ’   Dutch innovator ’’s audacious  known as the   ”great Pacific garbage patch” is undergoing some major design   changes. But the    tells Business Insider that the   first cleanup array is set to launch sooner than expected. ’ ’   ”Instead of late 2020, the cleanup will now start in just 12   months from now, and parts of it are already in production,” Slat   says. ’ ”   Slat’s nonprofit,  plans to try to install systems to remove vast   quantities of plastic from the Pacific ocean. The systems are   designed to float on the surface of an area that collects   pollution from around the world, and skim plastic   off the top layer of water. ” ’   Slat’’s original design involved mooring a massive     trap to the seabed 4. 5 kilometers below  —     a controversial plan that gave rise to  Slat says the group   now plans to deploy smaller arrays with underwater ”anchors”   that drift about 600 meters beneath the surface. Theoretically,   the anchors will hold the plastic collecting systems in the   spots where they can collect garbage most efficiently.  ’ ’   The team showed off the anchors  on May 11. ’ ’   ”These systems will automatically drift or gravitate to where the   plastic is,” Slat says. ”Instead of us being able to clean up 42%   of the patch in 10 years, we can now clean up 50% of the patch in   five years.” ’ ’   Slat says models of the new system show improved efficiency,   but no tests have been run with an actual array in the sea to   verify those claims. Slat also says the design change helped   convince a    raising its total funding since 2013 to $31. 5 million. The   new donors include San   philanthropists Marc   and Lynne Benioff, an anonymous donor, and Peter Thiel, among   others. ’ ’   But will it work? ’ ’  ’ ”   The Ocean Cleanup hopes to address a problem that’s serious   and complex. Plastic garbage from all over the globe flows into   the world’s oceans, then over time gets carried by   currents to five regions of the ocean known as gyres  —     natural gathering points for marine debris. ” ’   These ”garbage patches” don’’t look like islands of plastic  —     many people who have sailed through them say you don’’t see much   trash while passing through. But the plastic is there, and   it’’s  and dangerous.   Animals like sea turtles, seals, and birds eat it, which poisons   them. And as it breaks down into little particles, the   microplastic debris ends up in fish that often enter our own food   supply. ’ ’   When Slat first suggested that a   floating     array could collect plastic floating near the surface and funnel   it to a collection point, the idea gained traction. He gave   a  about the plan, but a number of   marine scientists were  about the unproven plan to create the   ”.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Slat’s team has only tested the new system in labs and   simulations, so it’s still theoretical. But the   advantages offered by the smaller,    arrays may   help assuage some concerns. Each can function as an individual   test to see how well the systems are working; they’re probably   easier to fix or remove if something goes wrong; and it’s   simpler financially to scale up construction over   time, building and launching arrays once there’s enough   funding. ” ’   Slat also claims that these smaller systems will be more   efficient  —   it’’s ”better, faster, and cheaper,” he says. ’ ”   Still, the absence of   evidence that the   arrays will work is likely to raise questions   among  who have  about The Ocean Cleanup’s plans.   The forces of the ocean are strong, and no one knows how well   these systems will hold up when subjected to storms or   extreme currents. If they break, they could contribute to the   trash problem. ” ”   Scientists have also expressed concerns that   the systems  that   might then ingest the plastic. Plus, it’s hard to know how   much of the plastic that gets collected ; and  the trash is deeper and will be   harder to collect than The Ocean Cleanup team anticipates. ” ’   Furthermore, much ocean garbage sits too deep for the arrays   to collect, Nancy Wallace, director of the Marine   Debris Program at the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric   Administration, . But she says the project should be   praised for bringing attention to this issue. ’ ’   ”The more people are aware of it, the more they will be concerned   about it,” Wallace . ”My hope is that the next step is to say ’’what   can I do to stop it? ’’ and that’s where prevention comes in.” ’ ’  ’ ”   But there may be more efficient ways to accomplish The Ocean   Cleanup’s goals. One of the project’s most prominent   critics, oceanographer Kim Martini, has  that the   arrays should be placed off the shores where most plastic enters   the ocean in the first place. ” ’   Other groups simply attempt to collect plastic before   it goes out to sea. The  has collected more than 200 million pounds   of trash from beaches, and Baltimore has a  that has trapped almost 1. 5 million   pounds of trash in the Inner Harbor since May 2014. ’ ”   True, these approaches don’t capture the plastic that’s   already traveled out through ocean. If an array works as the   team at The Ocean Cleanup hopes, therefore, it would be a   fantastic, impressive achievement. The early results of Slat’s   audacious plan should become available next year  —   i ” ”Dutch innovator Boyan Slat’s audacious plan to. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’