Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) It’s go time, California. In this overwhelmingly Democratic state, Hillary Clinton is poised to dominate the presidential vote. But there will be plenty of drama when it comes to the rest of the state’s doorstop of an election ballot. Outcomes are expected to show the influence of rising power centers in California: Hispanics and young people. Early numbers suggest voters are energized. A record 19. 4 million Californians are registered, according to the secretary of state. By Monday, nearly five million votes were already cast. In Los Angeles County over the weekend, some people waited up to four hours in line to vote early, The Los Angeles Times reported. Mindy Romero, who runs the California Civic Engagement Project at U. C. Davis, said on Monday that even though we are not a swing state, many people are being propelled by anxiety over the nation’s direction. “People do think that in this election there is something at stake,” she said. “And, if nothing else, the fear factor among many voters about the other candidate is driving things. ” Some of the contests that we will be following closely as votes roll in: • Attorney General Kamala Harris is the favorite against Representative Loretta Sanchez in the race for United States Senate. Either would be the first woman of color to hold the office from California. • Representative Darrell Issa, a Republican who embraced Donald Trump, faces a threat to the seat he has held in Southern California since 2000 from the Democrat Doug Applegate, a retired Marine colonel. •   sentiment could tip votes against other Republican incumbents in Congress as well.  Jeff Denham and David Valadao, both in the Central Valley, and Steve Knight, in the Lancaster area, were all seen as vulnerable. The nation will be also watching trendsetting California on several crucial ballot propositions: • Will the state become the heaviest domino yet to fall in the nationwide push to legalize recreational marijuana? • Will voters abolish the death penalty? • Will a measure intended to lower prescription drug prices prevail despite more than $100 million spent to defeat it? • And how will Californians come down on a raft of taxation and   questions that could shore up schools and other public projects, but also saddle the state with more debt. Look for a special election night newsletter with results from California Today. And for live coverage follow The Times, which is offering open access on the web and on its news apps. Don’t know where to vote? Look it up. And if you need last minute guidance, see reporting in The Times on all 17 of the statewide initiatives: Proposition 51 (school bond) | Proposition 52 (hospital fees) | Proposition 53 (megaprojects) | Proposition 54 (legislative transparency) | Proposition 55 (income tax) | Proposition 56 (cigarette tax) | Proposition 57 (prison sentencing) | Proposition 58 (bilingual education)| Proposition 59 (Citizens United) | Proposition 60 (condoms in adult film) | Proposition 61 (drug pricing) | Propositions 62 and 66 (death penalty) | Proposition 63 (gun control) | Proposition 64 (marijuana) | Propositions 65 and 67 (plastic bag ban) • In Los Angeles, the multimillionaire Robert A. Durst pleaded not guilty to killing his friend Susan Berman 16 years ago. [The New York Times] • Twin tunnels under the Sepulveda Pass could tame Los Angeles traffic. But the plan comes with unknowns  —   and a $6 billion price tag. [Los Angeles Times] • SeaWorld is rebuilding its reputation with a new killer whale exhibit. [Opinion | San Diego  ] • John D. Roberts, who revolutionized the field of organic chemistry, died at his home in Pasadena. He was 98. [The New York Times] • Warner Bros. has been overshadowed by HBO. But the studio’s movie “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them” may change that. [The New York Times] • Philanthropy in Silicon Valley: East Coast donors make traditional gifts. The West Coast tech elite focuses on social benefits. [The New York Times] • After a farmworker shortage, a Salinas Valley agriculture company decided to build affordable housing for farmworkers. [KQED] • “Thanks for identifying yourself as an illegal   …     Now get out,” an undocumented student at U. C. Berkeley was told on Facebook. [Opinion | The New York Times] • “Water: California,” a photo exhibit by Mustafah Abdulaziz, captures the state’s drought. [The New York Times] • Yuba City is home to one of the largest populations of Sikhs outside India. Thousands gathered for a religious festival. [Sacramento Bee] Think you’re voting to make the world a better place? That may be so, but researchers have also found a less noble driver of voter participation. Shame, or specifically the fear of it. Studies have shown that up to half of nonvoters lie when asked if they cast a ballot. In a new academic paper, behavioral economists from U. C. Berkeley, the University of Chicago and Harvard sought to measure the amount of shame that nonvoters experience. To figure it out, they went to a Chicago suburb after a 2010 congressional election and surveyed both voters and nonvoters. Using financial incentives and election turnout data, they were able to measure how painful it was for people who did not vote to acknowledge it. “The results document substantial shame from admitting to not voting, though little evidence of pride from conversely claiming to vote,” according to the study. For campaigns, that suggests it may be fruitful to drop hints to potential supporters, for example, that Grandma may be inquiring later about their vote. Stefano DellaVigna, a professor of economics at U. C. Berkeley and one of the study’s authors, said the reasons people vote are myriad, not least among them a desire to be counted. But concerns over social standing play a crucial part. If deployed to your side’s advantage, Professor DellaVigna said, “that might flip it in close elections. ” California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.