’  ’ ”   Every year, ambitious graduates with a fresh new master’s degree   have to deal with the reality of having to prove themselves all   over again in an organization. ” ’   It can be easy to feel resentful and trudge through the work   until dues are paid, but this can also be a time to excel,   explained Nasdaq CEO Adena Friedman in her commencement address   Friday at her alma mater, the Vanderbilt Owen Graduate School of   Management. ’ ’   She told the graduates about to receive their MBAs that in a   culture of   innovation, they need to prioritize doing   things the right way. ”I admit to being a bit concerned that   we’’re moving into a culture that values ideas too much and   execution too little,” Friedman said. ’ ’   When she was 28, four years out of Vanderbilt’’s   her   boss at Nasdaq gave her her first product to oversee, and it was   a total dud. It was the Mutual Fund Quotation Service, which   Friedman described as ”an antiquated system with a neglected   client base that no one more senior than me at the company seemed   to think had much of a future.” ’ ’   Friedman portrayed the situation as a project handed to a young   manager without the intention of making much out of it  —   it was   worth trying to revive, but not worth the time of a seasoned   executive with abundant resources. ’ ’   But Friedman ”went all in,” she said. She began by speaking with   each of the product’’s clients to discover how they were using it   and what they wanted from it. ’ ’   Now she had goals for improving the product, but couldn’’t find   any Nasdaq engineer who wanted to work on a project they found   insignificant. Friedman said she was eventually able to convince   a veteran guy from the IT department to help her out  —   she   figured he joined ”just for the entertainment value of my certain   failure”  —   and that allowed her to recruit a few more. ’ ’   The small, uninspired team went to their first project meeting   and discovered that Friedman had crafted a   project   schedule, and she explained each step with clarity and optimism. ’ ’   Friedman said that when she finished her presentation, the   veteran IT guy she recruited said, ”Holy cow, I think she can   actually get this done.” This person ended up becoming the   project’’s biggest champion and, motivated by Friedman’’s   dedication, gave it his full effort. ’ ’   The project took off and the product is thriving today, according   to Friedman. ”The success got me noticed in the organization, and   set me on a path to run Nasdaq’’s data products division,” she   said. ’ ’   She told the Vanderbilt crowd that this project was the   culmination of five lessons she learned early in her career: ’ ’   As she ended her speech, Friedman made it clear that she could   have told plenty of stories where she gave her best effort and   failed. Those scenarios can be just as valuable as the wins as   you grow into your career, she explained. ’ ’   The point is to focus on those principles she mentioned,   regardless of what your boss (or life) throws at you, and, ”no   matter what happens, you’’re going to be OK.” ’ ’   You can watch the full commencement address below. ’ ’ ’ ’Every year, ambitious graduates with a fresh. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’