’  ’ ”   President Trump’s tax plan  yet, but Treasury Secretary   Steven Mnuchin gave us one big clue  —   a proposed 15% business tax   rate, a big drop from the current 35%. ” ”   But ask some Kansans and you’ll learn how that kind of tax cut   could have serious unintended consequences. ” ”   In 2013, as part of the state’s   tax cuts, Kansas   slashed its business tax rate down to 0%. It was supposed to spur   economic growth. ” ’   After all, if businesses have more money in hand, they can,   theoretically, hire more people and invest in making new   products. ’ ’   Instead,  from a number of institutions say it turned more   into a ”tax avoidance” program, rather than encouraging   investment. A lot of   workers like law partners,   accountants, and doctors stopped taking salaries and instead   started claiming the profits of the business. For them, state   income tax essentially went from a maximum of 4. 6% to nothing.   This has led to the ongoing budget crisis. ’ ’   “Kansas has been an unmitigated budgetary disaster,” says Dr Lori   McMillan, a   professor at Washburn University told   Business Insider. “It was a very messy, blunt club when a scalpel   was needed. ” ’ ’   The economic growth from the tax cuts never materialized. Kansas   was saddled with an almost instantaneous budget hole, leaving   schools and pensions drastically underfunded. Infrastructure   repairs were put on hold. And to deal with a  drop in revenue  —   almost twice what was   predicted  —   Kansas raised its sales tax, hurting all residents,   but especially lower income Kansans. ’ ’   Kansas has some peculiarities, but the lessons still apply   nationally. In the state, the 0% tax applies only to   ” ” businesses, which send their profits directly to   the companies’’ owners. Before this law, those owners would just   pay Kansas’’ individual tax rate. The 2012 law effectively created   a new category just for them, where they pay nothing. ’ ’  ’ ”   Nationally, 90% of US companies are   according to   the  so it’s possible Trump’s tax cut would have   similar effects. It could also encourage some     workers to become independent contractors rather than remain   companies’ employees. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Kansas Gov. Sam Brownback pushed hard for this tax break. He bet   it would help the state’s economy. But the      budget shortfall has had drastic ripple effects. ” ”   It has exacerbated a   crisis. The state’s supreme   court in March even called the low level of funding   unconstitutional. ” ”   Despite widespread criticism, including from within his own party   in the legislature, Brownback has mostly resisted reversing the   tax cuts. The state’s budget director, Shawn Sullivan, who’s   appointed by the governor, says that might be changing. ” ’   “The goal is to be ” Sullivan told Business Insider.   ”The governor believes the current plan is best, but as the   legislature deals with the current situation, he is willing to   compromise.” ’ ’   Sullivan also refutes the validity of some of the economic   studies of Kansas completed by the Tax Foundation and academics,   saying, ”They’’ve extrapolated conclusions not borne of the data.” ’ ’   But the state is still facing massive budget deficits  —   as much   as $1. 1 billion through the middle of 2019. Instead of changing   the tax cuts on business and personal income, the lawmakers have   raised sales taxes. ’ ’   “When you pick winners and losers in your tax policy, you only   shift the burden of funding the government to others who may be   less able to pay,” says McMillan. ’ ’   Kansas now has one of the highest sales tax rates in the nation   at 6. 5% the cigarette tax was recently raised by 79 cents to   $1. 29, and a new tax was put on vapor products as well, according   to the . ’ ’   Bernie Koch of the Kansas Economic Progress Council isn’t sure   how long that level of sales tax can last. ’ ’  ’ ’   “The sales tax wasn’t meant to handle that load,” says Koch.   “It’s become the largest slice of the pie for Kansas. More than   the income tax. I don’t think the legislators ever thought ‘can   the sales tax handle this? ’” ’ ’   Kansas lawmakers are now working to repeal the   tax   exemption as part of a larger tax overhaul. In February, a      bill was sent to Gov. Brownback’s   desk; he vetoed it. ’ ’   “I am vetoing it because the legislature failed to fulfill my   request that they find savings and efficiencies before asking the   people of Kansas for more taxes,” the governor said. “I am   vetoing it because Kansas families deserve to keep more of their     cash. ” ’ ”   Following the veto, the   agency Moody’s issued a   negative outlook for the state. Even though people are changing   the way they file and are going out of their way to get the tax   cut, they’re within the bounds of the law. ” ”   Trump’s team says its plan might work differently.  ” ’   Mnuchin says the administration ”will make sure that there are   rules in place so that wealthy people can’’t create     and use that as a mechanism to avoid paying the tax rate that   they should be on the personal side.”  ’ ”   But the big question is, how does he do that? What legal rules   can the administration come up with so that tax lawyers and   accountants can’t find legal loopholes.  ” ’   ”Kansas is a teaser for how hard it is to budget this kind of tax   cut,” McMillan said.  ’ ’   Details of the Trump plan are being negotiated with   Congress.  ’ ”   Meanwhile, some are wondering if Kansas’ schools will open in the   fall. After the supreme court’s  legislators must pass some form of tax reform to   properly fund the schools.  ” ’   ”I’’m optimistic something will get done,” Koch said. ”Mostly   because if the schools close, there will be riots in the   streets.” ’ ”President Trump’s tax plan doesn’t have a lot. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’