’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump, who has reportedly been isolated and   frustrated by the negative coverage engulfing his administration   in recent days, may be considering a major reorganization of his   White House staff,  from Mike Allen on Sunday. ’ ’   Trump is said to have been furious at his communications team  —     led by Press Secretary Sean Spicer and Communications Director   Michael Dubke  —   for what he has characterized as their   failure to defend his decision to fire former FBI director James   Comey, . ’ ’   However, Trump kept Spicer and the communications team in the   dark regarding his decision to fire Comey until the last possible   moment, according to The Times. ’ ”   Regardless, Trump seems to be considering a sweeping shakeup of   his West Wing staff in the wake of the media firestorm that   followed his abrupt decision to fire Comey  —   the man who was   overseeing an FBI investigation into the Trump campaign’s   possible collusion with Russia during the 2016 presidential   election. ” ’   After Comey was fired, the White House scrambled to get an   official statement out. Initially, they said that  and was based entirely   upon the recommendation of deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein   and attorney general Jeff Sessions. ’ ”   The next day, however, Trump said he had been considering firing   Comey for a while, and that Rosenstein’s memo had sealed the   deal. Later, Trump again shifted his rhetoric, saying that he had   already decided to fire Comey before he got Rosenstein’s memo. ” ”   The resulting media chaos reportedly threw the White House into   turmoil, as aides and surrogates worked to craft a message around   the president’s evolving statements to the media. ” ’  ’ ”   As his staff continues to manage fallout from Comey’s firing,   among the people Trump is most upset at are chief of staff Reince   Priebus, Dubke, and Spicer, according to the Times report, which   cited six West Wing officials. ” ’   Trump is specifically eyeing a crackdown on his communications   team over anger at the number of leaks that have been spilling   out of the White House. Axios added that chief strategist Steve   Bannon and White House counsel Don McGahn may be among those who   are replaced. ’ ’   Trump is ”frustrated, and angry at everyone,” one source told   Axios, and said that the president is also upset with Cabinet   officials, like commerce secretary Wilbur Ross, attorney general   Jeff Sessions, and health and human services secretary Tom Price. ’ ”   Trump’s confidants have reportedly been pointing out to him   that his approval ratings are not seeing any improvement  —   as of   Saturday, the president has a 56% disapproval rating and a   39% approval rating, . ” ’   Regarding potential shakeups of his staff, one source told Axios,   ”the advice he’’s getting is to go big  —   that he has nothing to   lose. The question now is how big and how bold. I’’m not sure he   knows the answer to that yet.” ’ ’President Donald Trump, who has reportedly been. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’