’  ’ ”   Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was asked on Sunday why he   didn’t bring up the issue of Kremlin interference in the 2016   election when he met with Russia’s foreign minister Sergey Lavrov   earlier in the week. ” ’   ”Can you get on a better footing with [Russia] if you don’’t   address this issue of the Russian interference?” NBC’’s Chuck Todd   asked Tillerson  ”I mean, your   counterpart, the Russian foreign minister, Mr. Lavrov, said that   you guys didn’’t even talk about this issue of Russian   interference in our election because, as he put it, President   Trump himself says it’’s fake news, so it’’s not an issue. Why   haven’’t you brought it up with them?” Todd asked. ’ ’   ”Well, Chuck, I think we have such a broad range of important   issues that have to be addressed in the   relationship,”   Tillerson replied. ”Obviously, the interference in the election   is one of those. I think it’’s been   it’’s pretty   well understood  —   the nature of that interference here and   elsewhere.” ’ ’   He added: ”You know, these are not new tactics on the part of the   Russian government, directed not only at us but at others. But   again, I think we have to look at this relationship in its   broadest contours, and there are many, many important areas which   require attention if we are to bring it back to a relationship   that we believe is necessary for the security of the US.” ’ ”   Todd pushed back on Tillerson’s assertion.  ” ’   ”Mr. Secretary, though, this is fundamental. They interfered with   our democracy. I just don’’t understand how this is not a top   issue for you to deal with, with them, in order to essentially   start with a clean slate,” Todd said. ”Can’’t start with a clean   slate until, maybe, they either own up to what they did, or we   punish them in a way that they’’re not going to do this   again.”  ’ ’  ’ ’   Tillerson replied: ”Well, Chuck, I think it’’s important to   understand we’’re not trying to start with a clean slate . .. We’’re   starting with the slate we have, and all the problems that are on   that slate. We don’’t dismiss any of them, we don’’t give anyone a   free pass on any of them. They’’re part of the entire nature of   the discussion we’’re having with the Russians. And yes, there are   a large number of issues that we have to get around to addressing   in order to put this relationship back together, if that is   indeed possible.” ’ ’   Todd later pressed Tillerson on whether he definitively believed   that Russia had interfered in the US election.  ’ ’   ”Is it clear in your mind that it is a fact the Russians   interfered in our election?” Todd asked, noting that US   intelligence reports concluded, and  that Russia had   played a hand in the 2016 election. ’ ’   ”I have seen the intelligence reports, Chuck,” Tillerson said.   ”And yes, I don’’t think there’’s any question that the Russians   were playing around in our electoral processes. Again, those   intelligence reports also have indicated that it’’s inconclusive   as to what, if any, effect it had.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Todd also mentioned the fact that the White House did not   disclose that Lavrov and Russia’s ambassador Sergey Kislyak  —   who   is widely believed to be a Russian spy  —   were allowed in the Oval   Office. ” ’   News of the meeting broke when    while American media were barred from entering the room. ’ ”   When Todd asked Tillerson why the White House didn’t disclose   that Kislyak was also in the meeting, Tillerson said he   didn’t know and that question should be posed to the White House. ” ”   Tillerson added that although Kislyak had been involved in his   meeting with Lavrov, he didn’t recall whether he had been   notified that Kislyak would also be joining Lavrov and Trump in   the Oval Office. ” ”   The topic of Russia has dogged Trump since his victory   and into the first few months of his presidency. There are   currently three investigations, conducted by the House, Senate,   and FBI, that are focusing on the nature of Russia’s interference   in the 2016 election. Trump’s associates, in particular, are   being investigated over their suspected collusion with   Russia to hand Trump the presidency. ” ”   The   controversy was thrust into the spotlight again   this past week, when Trump made the bombshell decision to fire   FBI director James Comey  —   the man overseeing the investigation   into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia. Comey’s firing   prompted speculation over whether Trump removed him because he   was angry about the Russia probe. ” ’  ’ ”   Initially, the White House said that the Russia investigation had   nothing to do with Trump’s decision and that he’d acted solely on   the recommendations of deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein and   attorney general Jeff Sessions. ” ”   Later, however, Trump said he had been mulling over   firing Comey for a while, and that Rosenstein’s memo sealed the   deal. The next day, Trump again shifted his stance, saying that   he had already decided to fire Comey by the time he got   Rosenstein’s memo. ” ’   Comey has made no public statements since his abrupt removal, but   Trump has lashed out at him amid the media firestorm following   his decision. He also suggested that he may have recordings   of his conversations with Comey. ’ ’   ”James Comey better hope that there are no ’’tapes’’ of our   conversations before he starts leaking to the press!”  on   Friday. ’ ’   A source close to Comey  that   Comey ”hopes there are tapes. That would be perfect.” ’ ’   Comey  to testify before the Senate Intelligence   Committee in a   session, and a close associate    that Comey was willing to testify  —   but only in public. ’ ’   James Clapper, the former director of national intelligence, said   in a Sunday morning interview that US intelligence agencies were   ”under assault,” including from the president himself. ’ ’   ”I think in many ways our institutions are under assault both   externally  —   and that’’s the big news here is the Russian   interference in our election system  —   and I think as well our   institutions are under assault internally,”  ”The   founding fathers, in their genius, created a system of three     branches of government and a   system of checks   and balances. I feel as though that is under assault and is   eroding.” ’ ’Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was asked on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’