’  ’ ’   The US Justice Department has appointed former FBI Director   Robert Mueller to oversee investigations into potential ties   between associates of President Donald Trump and Russian   operatives, the department announced in a statement on Wednesday. ’ ’   Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein made the appointment, amid   calls for a special counsel after multiple revelations in recent   days threatened to derail the investigation. ’ ’   ”My decision is not a finding that crimes have been committed or   that any prosecution is warranted,” Rosenstein said in the DOJ   statement. ”I have made no such determination. What I have   determined is that based upon the unique circumstances, the   public interest requires me to place this investigation under the   authority of a person who exercises a degree of independence from   the normal chain of command. ” ’ ”   Multiple government bodies have been conducting inquiries into   Russia’s meddling in the 2016 US presidential election and   potential instances of collusion between the Kremlin and Trump   associates. The FBI’s investigation is now completely in the   hands of Mueller, who led the bureau for 12 years under   Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama. ” ’  ’ ’   Mueller will oversee the FBI agents and prosecutors working on   the   investigation. ’ ’   The appointment received bipartisan support on Wednesday. ’ ’   ”Mueller is a good choice for this investigation,” said Scott   Olson, a recently retired FBI agent who spent more than three   decades at the bureau. ”Not only is he a seasoned prosecutor, he   has a good level of experience in national security   investigations and issues. I think we can expect him to focus on   developing a solid understanding of the facts  —   what actually   happened  —   and then follow with a thoughtful recommendation   regarding who, if anyone, should be held accountable.” ’ ’   “I cannot think about a better choice,” Kathryn Ruemmler, a   former prosecutor and White House counsel under Obama told The   New York Times. “He will just do a completely thorough   investigation without regard to public pressure or political   pressure. ” ’ ’   Trump said in a statement shortly after the announcement: ”As I   have stated many times, a thorough investigation will confirm   what we already know  —   there was no collusion between my campaign   and any foreign entity. I look forward to this matter concluding   quickly. In the meantime, I will never stop fighting for the   people and the issues that matter most to the future of our   country.” ’ ”   House Speaker Paul Ryan said he welcomes Mueller as special   counsel and said the House Intelligence Committee’s investigation   would also continue. ” ’   As special counsel, Mueller is given increased autonomy to run   the investigation, though he will ultimately report to Rosenstein   at the Justice Department, The Times . ’ ’  ’ ’   Though Rosenstein is    at the DOJ, he has the   authority to make the special counsel appointment because   Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from all     investigative matters, due to his Trump     meetings with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak,   which Sessions failed to disclose during confirmation hearings   for his role as attorney general. ’ ”   The appointment comes after a number of blips that appeared to   damage the integrity of the Russia investigation  —    last   week. At the time, Rosenstein had expressed some hesitation about   appointing a special counsel, but his action on Wednesday   suggests the fallout from Comey’s firing had some effect on the   decision. ” ”   Following Comey’s dismissal on May 9, multiple news outlets   reported that   —     which Comey declined  —   and revelations that Comey created memos   of his conversations with Trump. Among those memos was a note   that  into   his former national security adviser, Michael Flynn. ” ’   Flynn is among several   associates and former   associates of Trump who have been implicated in the Russia   investigation. ’ ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed reporting. ’ ’The US Justice Department has appointed former. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’