’  ’ ’   San Antonio Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich ripped Golden State   Warriors center Zaza Pachulia on Monday for a controversial foul   that injured Kawhi Leonard in Game 1 of the Western Conference   Finals. ’ ’   During the third quarter, Pachulia closed out on a Leonard shot   attempt and appeared to put his foot under Leonard after the   shot. ’ ”   Leonard, whose injured ankle kept him out of Game 6 and part of   Game 5 of the Spurs’   series against the Houston   Rockets, landed on Pachulia’s foot and had to leave the game. The   Warriors went on an   run, erasing most of a   Spurs   lead. The Warriors won the game   outscoring the Spurs by   25 points without Leonard for most of the second half. ” ’   While it was unclear whether Pachulia’’s foot placement was   intentional, Popovich said it was ”a totally unnatural  ”   and listed past incidents he considers dirty plays by Pachulia: ’ ”   Popovich then angrily broke down how Leonard’s injury could   affect the Spurs’ title chances: ” ”   At the time of Popovich’s media availability, Leonard was getting   an MRI. Popovich said the Spurs expected Leonard to miss Game 2. ” ”   As many people pointed out, Pachulia’s   foot trick has   been around the NBA for years. Former Spurs wing Bruce Bowen was   perhaps the player most known to slide his foot under jump   shooters, risking potential injury. The Spurs retired Bowen’s   number, leading some to say Popovich’s rant was hypocritical. ” ”   After Game 1, Leonard said he didn’t think Pachulia was trying to   intentionally hurt him. Pachulia also defended himself, saying   big men often get called for many unintentional fouls. ” ’   Popovich, however, brushed that aside. ’ ’   ”I don’’t give a damn about intent,” he said. ”You still go to   jail for manslaughter.” ’ ”   Here’s the play: ” ’ ’ ”   Popovich likely was trying to draw the league’s attention to   other fouls the Warriors may have committed during the game,   perhaps even trying to get it to punish Pachulia. But it’s   unlikely the NBA will retroactively punish Pachulia for the foul,   particularly if the intent was unclear. ” ’   But as  one person playing dirty does   not mean others should follow suit. For now, the Spurs trail     in the series, and if Leonard misses any time, the Spurs . ’ ”   Watch Popovich’s comments: ” ’ ’ ”Popovich just went off. .. felt Zaza’s close out on Kawhi was inappropriate   ” ’San Antonio Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’