’  ’ ’   Billionaire Steve Cohen has opened a Palo Alto office to   invest in   companies focused on big data and machine   learning, and he has hired two people who invested on behalf of   the CIA. ’ ’   The two men leading the effort are Daniel Gwak and Sri   Chandrasekar, who previously worked at    a venture   capital firm that is mostly funded by the Central Intelligence   Agency. ’ ”   The pair started their new roles on May 1, according to Matthew   Granade, Point72’s chief market intelligence officer. ” ”   The new Silicon Valley office is part of Point72 Ventures,   Cohen’s venture capital unit, which is legally separate from his   $11 billion family office, Point72 Asset Management. Both manage   Cohen’s billions. Cohen launched Point72 Ventures last year,   hiring Pete Casella of JPMorgan Chase Strategic Investments to   help lead the effort. ” ’   Point72 Ventures expects to eventually expand its new Palo   Alto office and add more staffers, Granade told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Machine learning and AI are playing an ever increasing role in   solving problems,” Granade said. ’ ’   At    the CIA venture capital firm, Gwak and   Chandrasekar ”had a great vantage point in how these   companies were getting started, what was working and not   working,” he added. ’ ’   Gwak and  ’ ’   At    Gwak focused on enterprise analytics and   infrastructure companies, and Chandrasekar led an artificial   intelligence lab, according to bios provided by Point72.  ’ ’   Their new group is   and could involve a range of   companies, such as those looking at natural language processing,   automating trucks or cars, or synthesizing news. ’ ’   Granade declined to put a figure at how much money the venture   arm plans to invest, but said he expected the group to invest in   10 to 20 companies a year. ’ ’   ”Steve [Cohen] has a fairly good sized balance sheet,”   Granade said. ”Because we’’re operating through Steve, we can   be very opportunistic when we’’re seeing things.” ’ ” that    has been   specializing in companies that mine data on Twitter and other   social networks. And the  that some of   ’s board   members have ties to some of the companies the fund has invested   in.  ” ’  ’ ’   The Securities and Exchange Commission in 2013   banned  from managing outside money after it   pleaded guilty to securities fraud. ’ ”   Cohen subsequently launched Point72 as a family office to run his   billions of wealth. A   organization can accept outside   investors’ money again starting next year. ” ’Billionaire Steve Cohen has opened a Palo. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’