’  ’ ”   House Oversight Committee chair Jason Chaffetz questioned the   motives behind the Justice Department’s appointment of a special   prosecutor to oversee the FBI’s   investigation. ” ’   ”I think they’’re feeling the political heat,” Chaffetz told Fox   News’’ Tucker Carlson on Wednesday evening. ”Maybe they’’re   watching a little too much television and read too many   newspapers and whatnot.” ’ ’   ”I have not seen any evidence of actual collusion,” Chaffetz   said. ”Where is the actual crime that they think they need a   special prosecutor to prosecute? I just haven’’t seen it.” ’ ”   Chaffetz also took note of the Justice Department’s quick action   Wednesday. ” ’   ”I’’m very surprised by it. No ” said Chaffetz. ”I at   least read online that the White House only got about     heads up.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The DOJ appointed former FBI director Robert Mueller to oversee   the FBI’s investigation into potential ties between the Trump   campaign and Russian officials during the 2016 US presidential   election. ” ’   The appointment, made by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein,   comes amid a bipartisan outcry for a special counsel after a   string of scandals rocked the White House in recent weeks. ’ ’   ”My decision is not a finding that crimes have been committed or   that any prosecution is warranted,” Rosenstein’’s statement read.   ”I have made no such determination. What I have determined is   that based upon the unique circumstances, the public interest   requires me to place this investigation under the authority of a   person who exercises a degree of independence from the normal   chain of command.” ’ ’   ”[The investigation] could go on for years,” said Chaffetz. ”And   there could be long periods of just silence. And what I worry is   that the Democrats are going to politically exploit this on a   daily drumbeat, making up theories, making up stories . .. when   you don’’t have the definitive word from somebody who’’s going to   be essentially silent.” ’ ’   ”Does that seep out? At what point does that let off,” Chaffetz   continued. ”I physically don’’t know exactly where those lanes   are.” ’ ’   Chaffetz also questioned the validity of memos Comey recorded   when he was FBI director, and which were reported to have noted   that Trump asked Comey to drop the bureau’’s inquiry of ousted   national security adviser Michael Flynn. ”I’’m not even sure that   these memos even exist,” Chaffetz said. ”I don’’t even know that   they’’re real.” ’ ’   ”You can’’t run an investigation on anonymous sources in The New   York Times. That’’s just not conclusive evidence.” ’ ’ ’ ’House Oversight Committee chair Jason Chaffetz. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’