’  ’ ”   Former national security adviser Mike Flynn reportedly told   Donald Trump’s transition team that he was under federal   investigation, weeks before Trump took office,  published Wednesday. ” ”   Two individuals cited in The Times’ report said Flynn had   explained to Trump’s team on January 4 that he was being   investigated for privately working as a paid lobbyist for Turkey   during the 2016 US presidential election. ” ”   Flynn made the disclosure to White House counsel Don McGahn   during a conversation, The Times said. Another conversation took   place two days later, between Flynn’s lawyer and lawyers from   Trump’s transition team. ” ’   Trump later appointed Flynn as national security adviser, giving   him access to a wide array of American intelligence from several   agencies, shortly after Trump took office. ’ ”   Flynn’s employment under a firm with ties to Turkey was   scrutinized by intelligence agencies in March, after    that he was paid more than $500, 000 for his work as a foreign   agent of Turkey. Flynn belatedly registered with the US Justice   Department as a foreign agent that same month. ” ”   Flynn has been vocal supporter of Turkey’s president, Recep   Tayyip Erdoğan, and  for the   removal and extradition of Fethullah Gulen  —   a US resident and a   Muslim cleric that has been accused by the Turkish government of   orchestrated a failed coup in 2016. ” ’  ’ ”   Additionally, a  alleges that Flynn had told outgoing national   security adviser Susan Rice to delay a military operation using   Syrian Kurdish forces to retake Raqqa, a major Syrian city and   one of the Islamic State’s remaining bastions. Kurdish forces   have faced strict opposition from the Turkish government, even   being labeled as a terrorist organization, due to their fears of   losing territory to the group. ” ’  ’ ’   Eventually fired on February 13 for making misleading statements   to Vice President Mike Pence and other officials about   discussions he carried out with Russian ambassador Sergey   Kislyak, Flynn has been at the center of a string of     controversies in recent months. ’ ”   On Tuesday, Flynn took the spotlight again, after it was reported   that Trump had told former FBI director James Comey to drop the   bureau’s investigation into the allegations against Flynn. ” ’   ”I hope you can let this go,” Trump was alleged to have said to   Comey, according to one of Comey’’s memos  ’ ’Former national security adviser Mike Flynn. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’