’  ’ ’   Russian operatives reportedly boasted during the 2016 election   that they could use their relationship with Michael Flynn to make   inroads with President Donald Trump and his associates. ’ ’   The news comes after several days of headlines in which Flynn,   who was forced to resign from the Trump administration in   February, was the center of the   controversy. CNN   first reported Russia’’s alleged boasting about Flynn on Friday   night, describing it as ”a   fire” in the eyes of law   enforcement ”from very early on.” ’ ”   The network cited unnamed sources who said that the Russians   saw Flynn as an ally. At least two other former Trump   associates, Paul Manafort and Carter Page, are under FBI   investigation for their ties to Russia. A senior White House   official is now caught up in the FBI’s Russia probe, too,   McClatchy reported on Friday.  ” ’   The Obama administration had been skeptical of Flynn, who is   under criminal investigation by the FBI for his foreign contacts   and payments, since last year. President Barack Obama warned   Trump against hiring him in November, but Trump hired him anyway    —   even after Flynn  ’ ’  ’ ’’ ”   Flynn’s previous appearances on, and payments from, Russian state   media  —   including an event in which he appeared sitting next to   Russian President Vladimir Putin  —   were also seen as red flags.   Flynn agreed to testify before the House and Senate intelligence   committees in late March in exchange for immunity from   prosecution, but neither committee has agreed so far.  ” ”   Flynn’s time at the White House lasted just 24 days. He was asked   to resign on February 13 over reports that he had discussed   sanctions with Russia’s ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak,   during the transition. But Trump continued to defend him, going   as far as suggesting to FBI Director James Comey the next day to   drop the investigation into Flynn’s foreign contacts, according   to a memo Comey wrote about the conversation. ” ”   Comey wrote memos documenting the conversation because he   felt Trump’s advances were inappropriate, according to   the New York Times. ” ’  ’ ”   The many controversies surrounding Flynn  about why Trump was so determined to bring him   into his Cabinet and overlook his considerable baggage, which   included including a   with the Defense Intelligence   Agency and his lobbying work for a Dutch firm linked to Turkey’s   government throughout the end of 2016.  ” ’   ”Trump’’s team knew about [Flynn’’s] ties to Russia and they knew   about his work with Turkey,” said Rep. Eric Swalwell, a Democrat   who sits on the House Intelligence Committee. ”What’’s most   concerning is that it looks like they just didn’’t care. So you   have to ask yourself  —   were Flynn’’s prior relationships an   asset?” ’ ’    ’ ’Russian operatives reportedly boasted during. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’