’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump called the appointment of a special   counsel to oversee the FBI’’s investigation into potential   collusion between his campaign and Russian officials in the 2016   presidential election ”a very, very negative thing” that ”hurts   our country terribly.” ’ ’   Trump made the comments during a lunch with major network news   anchors one day after Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein   appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller to be special   counsel. That lunch was set to focus on his upcoming foreign trip   to Europe and the Middle East. ’ ’   ”I believe it hurts our country terribly, because it shows we’’re   a divided,     country,” Trump . ”And we have very   important things to be doing right now, whether it’’s trade deals,   whether it’’s military, whether it’’s stopping nuclear  —   all of the   things that we discussed today. And I think this shows a very   divided country.” ’ ’   ”It also happens to be a pure excuse for the Democrats having   lost an election that they should have easily won because of the   Electoral College being slanted so much in their way,” he   continued. ”That’’s all this is. I think it shows division, and it   shows that we’’re not together as a country. And I think it’’s a   very, very negative thing. And hopefully, this can go quickly,   because we have to show unity if we’’re going to do great things   with respect to the rest of the world.” ’ ’   Earlier  Trump   tweeted that ”this is the single greatest witch hunt of a   politician in American history!”  said ”with all   of the illegal acts that took place in the [Hillary] Clinton   campaign & [former President Barack] Obama administration,   there was never a special counsel appointed!” ’ ’’ ’   Prior to Trump’’s Twitter outburst and his comments to news   anchors,  reported   that he actually handled the news ”better than anyone expected,”   according to someone present in the Oval Office when Trump was   first told of Rosenstein appointing Mueller. The person   said his reaction was ”extremely measured.” ’ ’   ”He didn’’t yell or scream,” .   ”He told the assembled crowd they had nothing to hide.” ’ ’   reported that Trump told aides present that he wanted   to ”fight back,”  who were in the Oval Office. ’ ”   Shortly after Mueller’s appointment was announced, the White   House sent out a statement attributed to Trump that was a bit   toned down from his Thursday tweets and remarks. ” ’   ”As I have stated many times, a thorough investigation will   confirm what we already know  —   there was no collusion between my   campaign and any foreign entity,” the statement read. ”I look   forward to this matter concluding quickly. In the meantime, I   will never stop fighting for the people and the issues that   matter most to the future of our country.” ’ ’President Donald Trump called the appointment. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’