’  ’ ”   A US Navy SEAL was killed and two other   troops   were wounded  a   mission about 40 miles west of the   country’s capital earlier this month. ” ’   The SEAL,    Senior Chief Special Warfare Operator Kyle   Milliken, was the first American to die in combat in Somalia   since 1993. ’ ’   The mission he was attached to came under fire during a mission   against extremist group  . ’ ”   Milliken’s death came just a few weeks after  were deployed to the country, and his presence in the   country was part of a   and counterterrorism   deployment the US has dispatched to Somalia in recent years. ” ”   Milliken’s death comes after several others that took place   during counterterrorism operations, including the  of a   US Army platoon leader in Mosul, the  of a   US Army Green Beret in Nangarhar, Afghanistan, and the  of   a Navy SEAL during an operation in Yemen. ” ’   Asked about such counterterrorism operations during a Friday   briefing at the Pentagon, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff   and Marine Gen. Joseph Dunford said the ”broad guidance” given to   US forces working with partners on the ground in Somalia and   elsewhere  —   ”that they stay at the last cover and conceal   position short of the objective, in that they don’’t actually   close with the enemy”  —   hadn’’t changed. ’ ’  ’ ”   When pressed by CNN’s Barbara Starr about Milliken’s position   with partner forces at the time of his death, Defense Secretary   James Mattis said that despite the guidance given to and   precautions taken by US forces, risks in such operations could   not always be negated. ” ’   ”When you’re on patrol, you can’t always be in a safe position,”   Mattis said. ’ ’   ”The lads know they’re not part of a   corporation.   They’re trained for this, and they go out and they do their job   the best they can,” he added. ”I’’m confident that our military   forces are carrying out the intent, which is they do not put   themselves forward to do the job that partnered forces actually   want to do but they need our support in doing.” ’ ’  ’ ’   US special operations forces have been tasked with a high   operational tempo in recent years, as the war on terror and   related operations, especially those against ISIS in the Middle   East, have dragged on. ’ ’   Special operations commanders have  placed on their forces by the increased operations,   but they have emphasized that they are capable of meeting   emerging threats around the world. ’ ’   Others, however, have sounded warnings about how such deployments   are eroding special forces units. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’A US Navy SEAL was killed and two other. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’