’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump told two Russian diplomats in an Oval   Office meeting last week that by firing ”nut job” FBI Director   James Comey, he had taken ”great pressure” off of himself,   . ’ ”   Comey, who was leading an FBI investigation into Trump’s campaign   team and whether it colluded with the Kremlin during the 2016   election, was fired earlier this month. The next day, Trump met   with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey   Kislyak. ” ”   Trump’s comments last week and in February  —   when he  the bureau’s investigation into Michael Flynn, the   former national security adviser  —   have led lawmakers and legal   experts to question whether Trump sought to obstruct justice, a   criminal and impeachable offense. ” ’   ”Telling the Russians  —   the adversary at issue the investigation   itself  —   that firing Comey would ease pressure is compelling   evidence of corrupt intent under normal circumstances,” said   Andrew Wright, an associate professor at Savannah Law School who   specializes in federal criminal law and national security. ”Many   a criminal defendant have gotten convicted on evidence of their   intent just like that.” ’ ’   Jeffrey Toobin, a CNN legal analyst, said Trump’’s reported   comments were ” of obstruction of justice.” ’ ’’ ”   Obstruction of justice is : It involves any conduct in which a person willfully   interferes with the administration of justice. The FBI’s   investigation has progressed in recent weeks, and  that Congress was told it now included whether any   Trump officials engaged in a  . ” ’   The White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, said in a statement   on Friday that ”by grandstanding and politicizing the   investigation into Russia’’s actions, James Comey created   unnecessary pressure on our ability to engage and negotiate with   Russia. The investigation would have always continued, and   obviously, the termination of Comey would not have ended it.” ’ ’   He added, ”Once again, the real story is that our national   security has been undermined by the leaking of private and highly   classified conversations.” ’ ”   But Trump’s conversations with Comey and the Russians were      that could open him up to charges of obstruction of justice,   experts say. That pattern begins with Trump’s  and assurance that he wasn’t   under FBI investigation and ends when he fired Comey and   criticized him in front of the Russians. ” ’   ”Historically,    articles of impeachment do   elaborate a pattern of conduct,” legal experts at Lawfare wrote   earlier this week. ’ ’   ”The first  against Richard Nixon, for instance, included   making false statements to investigators, withholding evidence,   counseling witnesses to lie or give misleading testimony, and   ’’interfering or endeavoring to interfere with the conduct of   investigations by the Department of Justice of the United States   and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. ’’” ’ ’   Moreover, Trump reportedly has kept in touch with at least one   former associate who is under active criminal investigation by   the FBI. ’ ’   ”I just got a message from the president to stay strong,” Flynn    at a restaurant in northern Virginia late   last month, according to Yahoo News. ’ ’President Donald Trump told two Russian. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’