’  ’ ”   Former FBI director James Comey believes that President Trump was   trying to influence him and the FBI’s investigation into the   Trump campaign’s ties to Russia,  on Saturday.  ” ”   Comey is set to testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee   after Memorial Day, and the main question around his   hearing will be whether Comey believes Trump was trying to   intervene in the FBI’s investigation. ” ”   CNN’s source added that it’s still unclear whether Trump’s   attempts to influence Comey amounted to obstruction of justice. ” ’  ’ ’   Trump fired Comey  —   who was spearheading the Russia probe at the   time  —   two weeks ago. Initially, the White House said that Trump   acted entirely based on the advice of deputy attorney general Rod   Rosenstein and attorney general Jeff Sessions. ’ ’’ ’   Later, however, Trump said that he had already made the decision   to fire Comey before getting Sessions’’ and Rosenstein’’s input. He   also said that ”the Russia thing” had been a factor in his   decision, later calling Comey a ”showboat,” a ”grandstander,” and   a ”real nut job.” ’ ’   After Comey was fired, it emerged that he had kept detailed   memos of encounters with the president that he deemed improper.   One of those memos reportedly details a February meeting in which   Trump asked Comey to drop the FBI’’s investigation into former   national security adviser Michael Flynn. Trump reportedly said,   according to the memo, that Flynn was ”a good guy” and ”I hope   you can let this go.”  ’ ”   The last two weeks have seen a torrent of news that reflects   negatively on the White House, including reports that Trump   divulged highly classified information to two top Russian   officials during a meeting in the Oval Office. In light of   these revelations and Comey’s firing, Rosenstein appointed former   FBI director Robert Mueller as special counsel to investigate   ties between Trump’s campaign and Russia.  ” ”   Mueller will have broad powers in his new role and the latitude   to investigate anything related to the Trump campaign’s ties to   Russia and potential collusion with Russia to interfere in the   2016 election.  ” ’  ’ ’Former FBI director James Comey believes that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’