’  ’ ’   US Air Force fighter jets escorted an American Airlines plane   into Honolulu, Hawaii, on Friday after a passenger disturbance on   the flight. ’ ’   The FBI did not immediately disclose the nature of the incident,   but local CBS and NBC affiliates  Friday that a passenger on American Airlines Flight   31 was detained after trying to breach the cockpit. ’ ’   Crew members on Flight 31 and an   police officer   restrained the man aboard the flight which originated from Los   Angeles International Airport (LAX) the reports said. Flight 31   landed safely in Honolulu at 11:35 a. m. local time. No injuries   were reported. ’ ’   Federal authorities were preparing a criminal complaint to charge   Turkish national Anil Uskanil, 25, with interference with a   flight crew, FBI    charge Paul Delacourt said at a   Honolulu news conference, Reuters said. ’ ’   Local news outlets said the man had ”breached” security at LAX   but was allowed to board the plane. It was not immediately clear   what the circumstances of that breach were, but the news outlets,   citing unnamed sources, said once Flight 31 departed, the man   allegedly ”tried to break through the cockpit door.” ’ ’’ ’   Delacourt, when asked by a reporter if Uskanil tried to break   into the cockpit, said the Turkish man was in the aisle of the   plane and it was ”unclear what his motivation was.” ’ ’   Witnesses on Flight 31    NBC News correspondent Gadi Schwartz that the passenger had a   shirt over his head and did not make it past the     section of the aircraft. ”Flight attendant blocked aisle, man   taken down,” Schwartz wrote. ’ ’   American Airlines said in an emailed statement to Business   Insider: ’ ’     ”This unfortunate incident highlights the tremendous     professionalism of American’s team members, and specifically,     in this situation, our flight attendants. Their decisive     actions ensured the safety of everyone onboard the flight. We     are proud of our crew and are grateful to them for their     actions.”   ’ ’US Air Force fighter jets escorted an American. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’