’  ’ ’   President Trump is  but that hasn’’t stopped his   problems from piling up at home. And despite administration   officials’’ public attempts at pivoting the focus to the   national security risks of leaking information to the public,   staffers are privately ”exasperated” by Trump, .  ’ ’   ”They view their boss as completely undisciplined and   ” .  ’ ’   On Friday, the New York Times reported that Trump   told Russian officials former FBI director  and that firing Comey had taken ”great pressure” off   of him. Trump had fired Comey one day before making the alleged   comments to Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov and Russian   ambassador Sergey Kislyak during an Oval Office meeting. ’ ”   The Times’ story was just the latest in a slew of bombshell   revelations that raised questions about whether the president was   actively trying to squash an FBI investigation into his   campaign’s ties to Russia. Following a tumultuous two weeks,   legal analysts and lawmakers said the controversy could be bigger   than Watergate and have even raised the possibility of   presidential impeachment on obstruction of justice charges.  ” ’   The ”entire landscape of Trump’’s behavior” is what would prompt   an obstruction of justice charge, said Jens David Ohlin, an   associate dean at Cornell Law School and an expert on criminal   law. That includes ”telling Comey to back off on the Flynn   investigation, firing him when he wouldn’t, and then admitting on   national television that he dismissed Comey because of the Russia   investigation.” ’ ’   Trump’’s statement about Comey to the Russians is significant   because it ”is indirect evidence of his corrupt intent when he   fired Comey,” Ohlin added. ”Any good lawyer would tell Trump that   he needs to stop talking about the Russia investigation. ” ’ ’  ’ ”   In the wake of Trump’s comments and explosive media   coverage over the last 2 weeks, White House lawyers have   reportedly begun researching presidential impeachment, .  ” ’   But despite escalating tension surrounding the Russia probe and   Trump’’s interference with the investigation, White House staffers   are more ”numb than panicked,” according to Axios.  ’ ’   ”Those who went through the campaign with Trump are numb to the   crises and thought so many times before that this [sic] would be   the one to break Trump,” Axios reported. And despite their   apparent frustration with their boss, White House officials admit   ”Trump has got some special resilience that they can’’t begin to   understand. A coat of protection that almost seems supernatural   to them.” ’ ’   Trump’’s most stalwart supporters, Axios added, are ”unfazed” by   the   revelations and fallout from Comey’’s firing.   ”They’’re just swinging for Trump and have no qualms working to   defend him.” ’ ”   The   controversy picked up new steam on Wednesday   when deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein appointed former FBI   director Robert Mueller to helm the FBI’s Russia probe.  ” ’   Rosenstein’’s decision drew bipartisan support, and intelligence   officials  meant Trump ”may have gone from the frying pan into   the fire.”  ’ ’   ”Mueller has a reputation for being a straight shooter and won’t   be swayed by pressure from the White House,” Ohlin said. And   although there’’s no timeline on how long the investigation will   take, ”it’s not a good development for the Trump White House.” ’ ’President Trump is abroad on his first foreign. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’