’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump gave a   address to Arab   and Muslim leaders in Saudi Arabia during his first trip abroad   on Sunday. One phrase candidate Trump repeated countlessly on the   campaign trail was missing: ”radical Islamic terrorism.” ’ ’   Trump stressed the need to build a coalition to address a ”crisis   of Islamic extremism,” but neglected to use the charged keystone   of his campaign trail rhetoric in his speech to 50 Middle Eastern   leaders. ’ ”   Before his victory and after taking office,  former President Barack Obama and     presidential candidate Hillary Clinton for not   using the phrase. As a candidate,  not to use the term to   refer to terrorist attacks committed in the name of groups like   the Islamic State or Al Qaeda showed he wasn’t   to   fight terrorism. ” ”   In the past, American presidents, diplomats, and foreign policy   experts have argued that it hurts the US’ goals abroad and   undermines Muslim allies. ” ’   On Sunday, Trump largely stuck to the script, closely following   the prepared remarks that the White House sent out before his   speech, refraining from riffing like he so often did at campaign   rallies. ’ ’’ ’   ”This is not a battle between different faiths, different sects,   or different civilizations,” Trump said at the King Abdulaziz   Conference Center in Riyadh. ”This is a battle between barbaric   criminals who seek to obliterate human life, and decent people of   all religions who seek to protect it. This is a battle between   good and evil.” ’ ’   Announcing a new center to combat the financing of terrorism,   Trump emphasized the need for nations to collaborate to   ”honestly” confront ”the crisis of Islamic extremism and the   Islamist terror groups it inspires.” He also used the phrases   ”the Islamists” and ”Islamic terror of all kinds.” ’ ’   The White House has characterized the trip as an effort to   strengthen ties between the US and Middle East, and ”reset”   relations with the region. ’ ’   National security adviser  not to say ”radical   Islamic terrorism,” arguing that militant groups like ISIS   endorse a twisted view of Islam and that the phrase ultimately   hinders US goals, . ’ ’   He also seemed to suggest that Trump would not be using the   phrase during his speech. ”The president will call it whatever he   wants to call it,” McMaster told George Stephanopoulos on ABC’’s   ”This Week” on Saturday. ’ ’   ”But I think it’’s important that, whatever we call it, we   recognize that [extremists] are not religious people,” he   continued. ”And, in fact, these enemies of all civilizations,   what they want to do is to cloak their criminal behavior under   this fall idea of some kind of religious war.” ’ ’President Donald Trump gave a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’