’  ’ ’   ERBIL, Iraq  —   Everyone in Mosul, Iraq’s     city, is aware of the warplanes that have killed the   commanders of the Islamic State and decimated its weapon   factories and training centers while flying tens of   thousands of feet over the city, largely impervious to the   threats beneath them. ’ ’   A far fewer number know about the undercover     army of informants operating in Islamic   territory, who   risk torture and death every day to relay intelligence to the   Iraqi and coalition forces that operate those planes. ’ ’   “There were people spying from Mosul both from the west and the   eastern sides,” said Emad   an advisor to Nineveh Gov.   Nawfal Hammadi. “We made airstrikes after confirming the data   through volunteers. ” ’ ’   “Usually, our guys in Mosul called after midnight for five   seconds, before taking out their SIM card,” Rashidi said. Islamic   State militants have banned phones that actively communicate with   the outside world via cellular networks. Anyone caught anyone   using a SIM card is usually executed. ’ ’   Rashidi said these civilians usually receive no compensation for   their covert work and supported the fight because “they love   their land. ” ’ ’   The informants typically provided their information to the   Kurdish or Iraqi forces, who would then pass it to the     State coalition. A former lieutenant in the Iraqi   Army and a captain in the Peshmerga focused on infantry   intelligence who goes by the pseudonym Sorxan Rekani said he   recruited and worked with seven informants and that Italian,   German, and U. S. officers, operating on their information, would   then use drones to conduct additional reconnaissance or strike   the targets directly. Coalition spokesman Col. John Dorrian   confirmed the international alliance receives its target lists   from civilian informants, among other sources. ’ ’   Foreign Policy spoke with Rekani and three civilian “agents” who   provided information to him. Their collective intelligence led to   the deaths of more than 100 Islamic State fighters, and the   destruction of multiple weapons factories and training centers,   Rekani and the informants said. ’ ’   “The best way to get new information on the ground is to have   someone near the target,” Rekani said. “Terror organizations are   very good at changing their location, but when you have good   attacks on important targets, they will lose control. ” ’ ’   The informants declined to be identified by name, fearing   reprisals against their families by Islamic State sleeper cells.   They provided only their agent numbers, by which they were known   to the coalition. They are all currently in Iraq outside of   Islamic   territory, where they live in homes that   Rekani helped them find. Their former handler also tried to get   them cash assistance but was unsuccessful; he said the coalition   told him if informants were rewarded with money, they would start   selling information to the highest bidder. ’ ’   Rekani met Agent 45, a Kurdish informant, in 2008 when they both   served in the Iraqi military. The agent reached out to Rekani in   August 2014, saying he wanted to provide information. In an   interview, Agent 45 said his motivation to help was simple:   “There was one reason  —   we don’t like Daesh,” using an Arabic   acronym for the Islamic State. ’ ’   As a generator repairman, he had the opportunity to travel   throughout the city, covertly learning about Islamic State   checkpoints and gatherings. He also noted movements of Islamic   State trucks and warned the coalition in advance of the movement   of large convoys, making them easy targets for airstrikes. ’ ’   Agent 45’s life as a spy was full of dread. While out and about,   he often thought that someone was following him, especially when   he was gathering information. At night, he would call Rekani   while lying flat on his back on the roof of his house. He kept   the calls very short and hid the phone behind a false wall in a   closet in his home. ’ ’   “My family still does not know what I was doing,” he said, even   after they escaped during the Iraqi military’s push into eastern   Mosul. “They did not need to know. It was better for them. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Rekani referred to Agent 40, who worked as a taxi driver during   the Islamic State occupation, as perhaps his “best source. ”   Beginning in 2015, he wrote detailed reports that helped the   coalition destroy 14 major targets, including a meeting of   Islamic State leaders, a militant court, and several car bomb   assembly plants. ’ ’   Rekani told Agent 40, an Arab from Mosul, to check out certain   locations in advance. Agent 40 found others on his own. “For   example, if I saw many nice cars in some position, I would park   nearby, walk around, and see,” he said. “Sometimes I’d pick up   some passengers who would tell me what was going on. ”   Occasionally he drove militants and overheard their   conversations. ’ ’   “I was afraid, of course, but I had to do something,” he said. “I   had to help my people. ” ’ ’   By his count, the information he provided led to the deaths of 87   Islamic State members, including   officials. To   confirm the strikes and sate his own curiosity, he took mobile   phone video of almost every one of the strikes while his son   drove the car. ’ ’   “I was very happy to see lots of Daesh killed,” he said. ’ ’   This practice eventually caught up with him. Islamic State   fighters conducted a surprise inspection of Agent 40’s house and   found his wife using a forbidden phone. They waited for him to   return and then promptly arrested him, beat him, and shoved him   in a cell with seven other men. After they went through the phone   and saw the videos he took, they sentenced him to execution. ’ ’   As he sat there waiting to die, the building quaked, and one of   the walls exploded into pieces from an airstrike on an adjacent   building. Through the smoke, Agent 40 saw four Islamic State   bodies sprawled on the ground. He and six fellow prisoners made   their escape through the hole caused by the airstrike  —   he   believes the eighth prisoner was killed. ’ ’   The informant fled Mosul to Qayyarah, and then to Shirqat, where   he was eventually reunited with his family. To this day, he   doesn’t know whether the airstrike was accidental or a deliberate   attempt to free him. Rekani said he does not know either. ’ ’   Agent 44, also a taxi driver, was able to avoid such close calls   in Mosul by hiding his SIM card inside the fruit he collected   from his orange tree. His job meant that he spent a great deal of   time around the mechanic shops of eastern Mosul. He seized the   opportunity, gathering information on the hidden munitions plants   in the area. ’ ’   “I would go up to the mechanics’ area and ask about strange   people working there and what my colleagues said. Then I would go   to the factory site and confirm with my eyes,” the informant   said. One of his neighbors worked inside one of the plants and   passed him the information. ’ ’   Agent 44 was most proud of discovering a swimming pool where   close to 50 Islamic State fighters trained during the evenings.   Thanks to his chats with a pool employee, he told the coalition   exactly when and where to strike the target in order to erase   dozens of fighters from the conflict. ’ ’   All three agents said they did their best to prevent civilian   casualties but could not claim with 100 percent certainty that   their work didn’t cause innocent deaths. Rekani and Rashidi said   drones would usually surveil targets provided by informants, to   confirm that they were indeed Islamic State positions. The jihadi   organization, however, has a   practice of using   human shields and recruiting workers from the local populace.   It’s impossible to know how many nonmilitants would have been   present at the time of a given airstrike. ’ ’   When asked if they would do it again, all three agents said   without hesitation that they would, despite the fact that they   never got any payment or official acknowledgment for their role.   Helping defeat the Islamic State was its own reward. ’ ’   Still, Agent 40 was happy that the most absurd parts of the   experience were over. He said he had found it ever more difficult   to keep a straight face while attending mosque on Fridays, which   the Islamic State mandated. When the militants called on God to   defeat their enemies, Agent 40 made a different prayer. ’ ’   “They told us to pray, ‘Please, God, destroy the Americans and   the Peshmerga,’” he said. “I prayed: ‘Please, my God, don’t   listen to them. ’” ’ ’ERBIL, Iraq  —   Everyone in Mosul. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’