’  ’ ’   Panasonic, like many companies today, is betting big on auto tech   becoming a massive cash cow in the next decade. ’ ’   New alliances are forming almost every day as companies without a   traditional foothold in the automotive space try to get a slice   of the pie. ’ ’   Google is  Fiat   Chrysler on   cars while making  systems for Volvo; new software startups like    are   shelling out their services to major companies like Daimler; and   BMW is partnering with  on data collection. ’ ’   Panasonic is just one of many players collaborating with the   auto industry to focus on vehicles of the future. ’ ’   ”Our business has evolved over a period of time, especially in   the recent past of going from purely a consumer business to a B2B   business,” Tom Gebhardt, chairman and CEO of Panasonic’’s   North American operations, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”There’’s a number of reasons for that: The commoditization of   consumer products [and] the unfavorability in some of the cost   models led us to look for better values   technologies,”   he continued. ’ ’  ’ ”   Prior to taking over Panasonic’s North American division in   April, Gebhardt led the company’s automotive division for five   years.  ” ”   Placing an executive with several years of automotive expertise   at the helm of North American operations says something about the   company’s pivot from consumer electronics to auto tech. ” ’   That larger cultural shift came from Panasonic President Kazuhiro   Tsuga when he took over in 2012. As  details in a   2016 profile, Tsuga was key to transitioning Panasonic from its   failing plasma TV business to other revenue streams, like     entertainment systems in planes and electric cars. ’ ”   Panasonic isn’t stretching too far from its roots when it comes   to this kind of vehicle tech. Gebhardt noted that Panasonic had a   presence in the car radio business starting in 2008, giving it a   natural introduction to multimedia displays with its electronics   background. ” ’   Gebhardt said Panasonic is channeling resources toward digital   cockpits and vehicle entertainment systems as     vehicles become more in reach. ’ ’   ”If the scenario says the car drives itself, it’s similar to   sitting in an airplane seat because you’re no longer actively   driving,” he said. ”We see that as an evolution of the space   that’s quite interesting going forward that has infinite   possibilities for us.” ’ ’  ’ ’   As an extension of that plan, Panasonic recently worked with Fiat   Chrysler on its    shown off at CES in January. The concept featured   electronics like an OLED touchscreen with facial and voice   recognition. ’ ’   Panasonic sees itself playing a role in fully autonomous cars as   well by developing mobile offices or televisions specifically for     cars, Gebhardt said. ’ ”   Perhaps more notable is Panasonic’s relationship with Telsa. ” ”   As one of the largest battery manufacturers in the world,   competing with the likes of LG Chem and Samsung SDI, Panasonic   had an easy entry into the electric vehicle space. The   company plans to invest $1. 6 billion in Tesla’s Gigafactory. ” ’   ”The future is definitely electric, no question in my mind, it’s   more of, ’’what is the future timeline? ’’ Is it 10 years, 15 years,   40 years?” Gebhardt said. ”We don’t see an alternative more   interesting that, it’s just a matter of what the adoption hits at   the scale that makes this a slam dunk.” ’ ’  ’ ’   But, there are hurdles to overcome in both these spaces. ’ ’   From the connected vehicle side, consumer adoption of   infotainment systems is still lagging. J. D. Power led a 2016   study that found that more than 50% of car owners  their     displays after 90 days of purchase, preferring the   ease of using their smartphones. ’ ’   But the tech is still in its   Gebhardt said,   adding adoption will improve with the technology. ’ ”   Google’s new Android display, for example, will integrate its   smart voice assistant to encourage usage while driving. ” ’   ”Any time you’re dealing with a first generation product, a user   is not going to be overly comfortable,” he said. ’ ’   As for electric cars, vehicle adoption in the US is still tepid,   and global sales hover at 1%. ’ ’   Gebhardt acknowledged adoption is slow in the US,   particularly due to low gas prices  —   a trend that is likely to   persist if Trump comes through on his promise to roll back fuel   emissions standards. He said, however, that this is likely a   ”  problem.” ’ ”   While the US market is slow to progress, there’s still hope when   it comes to China, which is making a concerted effort to   incentivize   vehicles. ” ’   China ”being the largest car market in the world has a big   influence on what will happen,” Gebhardt said. ”If they adopt in   a big way, that changes the balance of where electric is today   versus where it will be going.” ’ ’   Panasonic has made some heavy investments in nascent areas, but   expects to see a return on investment soon. Tsuga recently   said Panasonic is expecting an increase in net profit   in fiscal year 2017, its first gain in two years, because of   new bets on transit,    reported. ’ ’  ’ ’Panasonic, like many companies today, is. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’