’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump asked the director of national   intelligence and the director of the National Security Agency to   push back against the FBI’s Russia probe by publicly denying any   collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian officials during   the 2016 election,  on Monday.  ” ”   According to two current and former intelligence officials, Trump   asked DNI Dan Coats and NSA director Adm. Michael   Rogers separately to publicly deny collusion after former   FBI director James Comey revealed the existence of the FBI’s   Russia inquiry during a March 20 testimony before the House   Intelligence Committee. Both Coats and Rogers denied the request,   because they believed it was inappropriate, the officials said. ” ”   Senior White House officials also spoke to top intelligence   officials about the possibility of the White House directly   intervening in the FBI’s investigation, officials told the Post. ” ’   ”Can we ask him to shut down the investigation? Are you able to   assist in this matter?” a White House official asked, according   to one intelligence official.   ’ ’   The Trump administration has been engulfed in controversy over   the last two weeks, after he made the decision to fire Comey.   Since then, it emerged that Trump had fired Comey because of ”the   Russia thing,” as Trump put it, and that he had revealed     intelligence to Russian diplomats during an   Oval Office meeting. ’ ’  ’ ”   It was also reported that Trump asked Comey to drop the FBI’s   investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn   during a February meeting, according to a memo that Comey wrote   shortly after the meeting. The meeting, according to Comey’s   memo, took place one day after Flynn was forced to resign. ” ”   Last Wednesday, deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein appointed   former FBI director Robert Mueller to oversee the FBI’s     investigation. ” ”   On Friday,  that the FBI’s probe reaches a senior White House   adviser who is close to the president, according to people   familiar with the matter.  ” ”   Last week,  that the Trump transition team was aware that Flynn   was under investigation before Trump took office. Flynn   didn’t resign until over a month later, and 18 days after   former acting attorney general Sally Yates warned the White House   that Flynn could be vulnerable to Russian blackmail.  ” ’   On Monday,  that Flynn will invoke his Fifth Amendment rights   and decline a subpoena issued by the Senate Intelligence   Committee for documents related to his interactions with   Russian officials from June 2015 to January 2017. ’ ’   The explosive reports that have emerged over the last few weeks   have forced legal analysts and lawmakers to consider the   possibility of presidential impeachment on obstruction of justice   charges.  ’ ’   The ”entire landscape of Trump’’s behavior” is what would prompt   an obstruction of justice charge, said Jens David Ohlin, an   associate dean at Cornell Law School and an expert on criminal   law. That includes ”telling Comey to back off on the Flynn   investigation, firing him when he wouldn’t, and then admitting on   national television that he dismissed Comey because of the Russia   investigation.” ’ ’   If Trump knew for a fact that he was asking Coats and Rogers to   make false statements, ”then there’’s a very strong argument that   he was trying to use them as an instrument to obstruct an     investigation,” Ohlin said. ’ ’   ”That would be criminal, and a major data point for the ongoing   FBI and congressional investigations,” he added.  ’ ’   An obstruction of justice charge, however, also requires proof of   corrupt intent, which is hard to pin down, according to Robert   Deitz, a former top lawyer for the NSA and CIA.   ’ ”   Trump’s request to Coats and Rogers, senior intelligence   officials said, threatened the independence of US spy agencies   and could be seen as an attempt to question the FBI’s   credibility.  ” ’   ”The problem wasn’t so much asking them to issue statements, it   was asking them to issue false statements about an ongoing   investigation,” an intelligence official told the Post.  ’ ’   ”Things keep getting worse for the White House, though one bright   spot for them is that reports indicate that Trump is close to   selecting a personal attorney,” Ohlin said. ”Getting an attorney   is a smart move.” ’ ’President Donald Trump asked the director of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’