’  ’ ”   The Trump administration’s 2018 budget proposal released Tuesday   included massive cuts to Medicaid,   ” ’   The plan  over the next   10 years. ’ ’   That number does not include  in proposed cuts to the   program through the American Health Care Act,  ’ ”   The plan  in   Congress, as even members of President Donald Trump’s own party   expressed skepticism over its provisions. The drastic cuts   to Medicaid, among other programs, have drawn blowback from   lawmakers in districts whose constituents would stand to be   affected by the slashes. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I was the first & only potential GOP candidate to state   there will be no cuts to Social Security, Medicare &   Medicaid,” Trump . He  throughout the campaign. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Under the ACA, eligibility for Medicaid was expanded to   include any adult living under 138% of the federal poverty level    —   . It’s up to states to   decide whether they want to participate. States that expanded   Medicaid under the new ACA requirements received federal funds to   do so. ” ’ chosen to   participate so far, leading to more than 11 million new people   nationwide gaining coverage, a number that continues to grow. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Governors in charge of expansion states, 16 of them Republican,   have also been in favor of retaining the expansion. Many  to  solicited by   Republican congressional leaders. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   If the AHCA does become law and the Medicaid expansion is phased   out, then Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia, among other   states suffering the brunt of the opioid crisis,  government   officials and treatment experts told Business Insider in   February. ’ ’   Pennsylvania was  as of December that   could reach $1. 7 billion by July, according to the Pittsburgh    . Republican State Rep. Gene DiGirolamo of   Pennsylvania told Business Insider  that there were ”no   extra dollars” to insure residents or provide addiction treatment   to those who lose coverage because of an ACA repeal. The   situation is . ’ ’   ”I’’m really, really worried about what’’s happening in   Washington,” DiGirolamo said in February. ”And I say that as a   Republican.” ’ ”The Trump administration’s 2018 budget proposal. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’