’  ’ ’   The Congressional Budget Office on Wednesday  and one new detail showed the newest version   of the bill could lead to a disaster that Republicans feared   under Obamacare. ’ ’   In every previous CBO score for both Obamacare and the American   Health Care Act, the CBO had said the individual insurance market   would remain stable. ’ ’   That means the marketplaces where people who do not   receive coverage through their job or a government program   like Medicaid would continue to be able to purchase   insurance at an affordable price. ’ ”   But the final version of the GOP’s American Health Care Act, the   CBO said, would undermine that stability. ” ”   One of the additions to the AHCA since the CBO’s  came with the MacArthur amendment, which would   allow states to waive two of Obamacare’s biggest   protections:   community rating and essential health   benefits. ” ’’ ’   Essential health benefits mandate that insurers cover a baseline   of healthcare needs, like maternity care and     services. Community rating compels insurers to charge the same   amount to people of the same age in the same area. ’ ’   The CBO said states that get waivers for those provisions   could see a number of adverse effects. For instance, without   community rating, people with preexisting conditions could be   charged more for insurance, even to the point where it becomes   unaffordable to purchase insurance. ’ ’   These changes and their effects on premiums in the   individual market, according to the CBO, could cause insurers to   pull out of the market and prices to increase.  ’ ’   From the CBO report: ’ ”   Put another way, people could exit the market for a variety   of reasons  —   for example, if they’re sick and the new plans cost   too much, or if the plans cover so little without essential   health benefits that out of picket costs are high enough to   not make the insurance worth it. That could lead to a risk pool   of only the sickest people. This could then lead to market   instability. ” ’   The CBO did say this would only to parts of the country that   theoretically request waivers. But it also   projected ”  of the population resides in areas”   where the exchanges would ”become unstable beginning in 2020.” ’ ’     of the population is roughly 54 million Americans. ’ ’The Congressional Budget Office on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’