’  ’ ’   The Congressional Budget Office analysis of the American   Health Care Act, as amended and passed by the     House of Representatives earlier this   month, . ’ ”   The macro numbers are not that different from what they were in   March, when Republicans couldn’t muster the votes to pass the   bill. Now, the CBO says the bill would cut the deficit by   $119 billion over 10 years and cause 23 million fewer Americans   to have health insurance by 2026. In March, those figures   were $150 billion and 24 million. ” ’   And as in March, the big driver of both the deficit reduction and   the loss of insurance coverage is cuts to Medicaid, the main   federal program for insuring poor people. Cutting off access to   the Medicaid expansion would cause 14 million people to lose   insurance and save $800 billion over a decade, making it   possible to finance hundreds of billions of dollars of tax cuts   for rich people. ’ ”   That’s all about the same as last time. The big difference this   time is who would pay what: Sick people would pay a lot   more, if they could get affordable health insurance at all. ” ”   That’s the key takeaway quote from the CBO score.   It describes what would happen in those states that actually   decide to use the MacArthur amendment, the May   revision to the bill that would allow states to let   insurers charge customers based on their health status. ” ’’ ’   Remember, this is the big change from March: To win over   conservative members of the House Republican conference, they had   to change the bill to allow states to let insurers charge   more to sick people. ’ ’   House Republicans literally  after they passed   this bill, since they had promised their bill   would ”prohibit health insurers from denying coverage or   charging more money to patients based on     conditions,” before they changed their mind and passed a bill   that would do exactly that. ’ ’   Unlike under current law, the tax credits that people would get   to help them buy insurance wouldn’’t be linked to their income or   the premiums they face, meaning these ”extremely high” premiums   would become unaffordable for those people who need healthcare   the most. ’ ’   ”Over time, it would be come more difficult for less healthy   people (including people with preexisting medical conditions) in   those states to purchase insurance because their premiums would   continue to increase rapidly,” the CBO warned. ’ ’   Of course, premiums are just one component of healthcare costs   for consumers. Because the AHCA would permit states to opt out of   ”essential health benefits” rules governing what insurance plans   must cover, in some cases premiums would go down  —   because   insurance would exclude key benefits. ’ ”   For example, women of childbearing age might be able to   get affordable insurance  —   so long as they bought a plan   that didn’t cover pregnancy care. ” ’   ”Out of pocket spending on maternity care and mental health and   substance abuse services could increase by thousands of dollars   in a given year for the nongroup enrollees who would use those   services,” the CBO said, because states could permit insurers to   sell plans that exclude key areas of coverage like pregnancy and   substance abuse. They could even sell plans that don’’t cover   doctor’’s visits, if they wanted. ’ ’   Common complaints about insurance policies sold under the ACA   are that they cost too much and then require patients to pay   too much in   and deductibles. ’ ’   People are upset that healthcare costs them too much. Instead of   addressing their concerns, this law would heap more costs on   consumers, especially if they have significant healthcare needs,   in order to finance tax cuts for the rich. ’ ”   If Republicans really wanted to take care of the sick, they have   proposed a policy structure that . But it would cost hundreds of billions of dollars they   want to spend on tax cuts for rich people, not on healthcare for   people who can’t afford healthcare. ” ”   So they lie and say this plan won’t hurt people. But it will, if   it becomes law. ” ’The Congressional Budget Office. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’