’  ’ ”   If the New York Jets’ organized workouts on Tuesday are any   indication, it may be another long season. ” ’   After a miserable   outing in 2016, several comments from both   current and past players hint at a contentious locker room last   year and potentially contentious one this year. ’ ’   One of the biggest stories was the absence of safety Calvin   Pryor. While workouts were voluntary and Pryor reportedly   attended past team workouts, his absence on   Tuesday  because he is   playing for a contract. ’ ’   Earlier in May, the Jets opted not to pick up Pryor’’s     option, making him a free agent after this season. This came   after the Jets drafted two safeties, namely LSU’’s Jamal Adams   with the sixth overall pick. While head coach Todd Bowles was mum   on Pryor’’s absence,  Bowles once said of a player   missing OTAs, ” ’ ’   ’ ”   Shots about last year’s team also came from former quarterback   Ryan Fitzpatrick, now a backup with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. ” ’   Asked about leaving the Jets,  ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Not helping matters, Hughes posted a video of Hackenberg  —   who an   unnamed coach once said   —   overthrowing a   receiver during a drill (the receiver’s effort didn’t help   either). ” ’ ’ ’Christian Hackenberg misfires this one  ’ ’ saying certain   aspects of his game, like his footwork and deep throws, looked   good, but accuracy was still a big issue: ”’ ”   The Jets are clearly a team in transition, and few expect any of   their current quarterbacks to be their   solutions.   However, in the meantime, it could be a long year if perhaps   their best options at quarterback are a    journeyman   with a career 78. 2 passer rating, or a   quarterback   who’s thrown three touchdowns to seven interceptions in his six   career games. ” ”   Perhaps the best case for the Jets this season is that they’re a   surprisingly competitive,   team that earns a high draft   pick next May. Early evidence suggests, however, that there may   be plenty of storylines to follow this season. ” ”If the New York Jets’ organized workouts on. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’