’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   U. S. Senate Majority Leader     said on Wednesday he   does not yet know how Republicans will amass the votes needed to   pass legislation now being crafted to dismantle Obamacare, but   expressed some optimism on another top priority, overhauling the   tax code. ’ ’   In an exclusive interview with Reuters,    said healthcare and taxes still top the Republican legislative   agenda, and he added that he will not reach out to the minority   Democrats on either one because differences between the two   parties are too stark. ’ ’ also said he has not asked the White House   for input as the Senate devises its own healthcare legislation   after the   House of Representatives passed its   version on May 4, but may do so in the future. ’ ”   Excluding Democratic involvement will leave    a conservative    Kentuckian   with a reputation as a dealmaker, a narrow path to win passage of   these ambitious goals, which are also at the head of Republican   President Donald Trump’s policy agenda. A repeal of Obamacare was   one of Trump’s leading campaign promises last year. ” ’   Asked about    work among Senate Republicans on   hammering out the provisions of a healthcare bill,    said, ”I don’’t know how we get to 50   (votes) at the moment. But that’’s the goal. And exactly what the   composition of that (bill) is I’’m not going to speculate about   because it serves no purpose,”  said. ’ ’   Republicans hold a   Senate majority. In the event of a     tie, Republican Vice President Mike Pence would be called upon to   cast a   vote. ’ ’ opened the interview by saying, ”There’’s   not a whole lot of news to be made on healthcare.” He declined to   discuss what provisions he might want to see in the bill or   provide a timetable for producing even a draft to show to      Republican senators and gauge their support. ’ ’   On the other hand, he said, prospects for passage of major tax   legislation were ”pretty good.” While this too will be difficult,    said, it is ”not in my view quite as   challenging as healthcare.” ’ ’   Trump and his fellow Republicans in Congress want to cut tax   rates across the board, but a House proposal to use the tax code   to boost exports and discourage imports has split the business   community and some lawmakers. ’ ”   The House narrowly passed its legislation to overhaul the   healthcare system and dismantle major parts of the Obamacare law,   formally called the Affordable Care Act, that was Democratic   former President Barack Obama’s signature legislative   achievement, overcoming unified opposition from Democrats. ” ’   On Wednesday, the   Congressional Budget Office   estimated the   bill would result in 23 million people   losing health insurance coverage by 2026, a sobering figure for   Senate Republicans as they mull action. The CBO also said federal   budget deficits would fall by $119 billion over 10 years under   that bill. ’ ’   Asked if he was getting any guidance from the White House on   healthcare legislation, said, ”Honestly I   haven’’t asked for any. I told the president there would be a   point at which we might well want him and the vice president to   be helpful.” ’ ’ said Trump and Pence could play an   important role when it comes to ”whipping” up support for   whatever bill is produced. ’ ’   If the Senate passes a healthcare bill, lawmakers would have to   work out the differences in the House and Senate versions and   pass a compromise bill before it could go to Trump for his   signature. ’ ’  ’ ’   With Republicans holding a slim Senate majority,    likely needs the cooperation and support   of   conservative Republicans such as Senator Ted Cruz   who in the past have been difficult to corral. ’ ’   Cruz is a member of a working group within the Senate in charge   of crafting the Senate Obamacare repeal legislation. ’ ’   ”I’’m grateful that he wants to help us get an outcome here,”    said. ’ ’   Republicans face a tricky balancing act. Because they cannot   expect any Democratic support and have a   majority,   they must devise legislation that appeals not only to the most   conservative senators but also does not drive off many Republican   moderates. ’ ”   Since it became law in 2010, Republicans have railed against   Obamacare, arguing that it is too expensive and involves the   government too deeply in Americans’ healthcare decisions. ” ’   They have said they want to replace it with a program that   repeals most Obamacare taxes, reduces federal spending in the   Medicaid insurance program for the poor and leaves more decisions   up to the states. ’ ’ in the past has promised to undo Obamacare   ”root and branch.” Now that Republicans are in a position to do   so with control of both Congress and the White House, they have   struggled to come up with a consensus plan. ’ ”   The Republican leader compared the effort to solving a Rubik’s   Cube. ” ’   Many Senate Republicans have misgivings about the     legislation, which Democrats have said would deprive millions of   people of insurance, benefit the wealthy and roll back Obamacare   protections such as guaranteed coverage for people with     conditions. ’ ’ made clear that senators are writing their   own bill, saying, ”We’’re working on a separate approach.” ’ ’   In taking a   approach to healthcare and taxes,    said of Democrats, ”They’’re not interested   in doing what we’’re interested in doing.” ’ ’ expressed optimism two parties can band   together to pass legislation funding the federal government in   the fiscal year starting on Oct. 1. ’ ’   He also noted good prospects for bipartisanship on a bill to   expand sanctions against Iran, due for debate in the Senate   Foreign Relations Committee this week, and renewal of a Food and   Drug Administration   program that expires later this   year.  ’ ’   (Reporting by Susan Cornwell and Yasmeen Abutaleb; Writing by   Richard Cowan; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh, Will Dunham and Lisa   Shumaker) ’ ’WASHINGTON (Reuters)   U. S. Senate Majority. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’