’  ’ ”   The first thing you’d see if a nuclear bomb exploded nearby is a   flood of light so bright, you may think the sun blew up. ” ”   Wincing from temporary blindness, you’d scan the horizon and see   an orange fireball. The gurgling flames would rise and darken   into   column of black smoke, which would turn in on   itself. As a   mushroom took shape, the  of the blast would rip through the area    —   and possibly knock you off your feet. ” ”   Congratulations! In this hypothetical scenario, you’ve just   survived a nuclear blast with an energy output of about 10   kilotons (20 million pounds) of TNT. That’s roughly 66% of energy   released by either atom bomb  in 1945. ” ’   This scenario may sound   but  in the world, and     nukes (like the one we just described) are  in favor of larger weapons. In fact, a       nuclear detonation by a terrorist is the first   of  that the US government . ’ ’   No one could fault you for panicking after the sight and  of a nuclear blast. But there   is one thing you should never do, according to    a health physicist and radiation expert at Lawrence Livermore   National Laboratory. ’ ’   ”Don’’t get in your car,” he tells Business Insider  —   don’’t try to   drive, and don’’t assume that the glass and metal of a vehicle can   protect you. ’ ’  ’ ”   Avoiding driving after a nuclear blast is wise because streets   would probably be full of erratic drivers, accidents, and debris.   But Buddemeier says there’s another important reason to ditch the   car: a fearsome   of nuclear blasts called fallout. ” ”   Fallout is a complex mixture of fission products, or   radioisotopes, that are created by splitting atoms. Many of the   fission products decay rapidly and emit gamma radiation, an   invisible yet highly energetic form of light. Exposure to too   much of this radiation in a short time can damage the body’s   cells and its ability to fix itself  —   a condition called acute   radiation sickness. ” ’   ”It also affects the immune system and the your ability to fight   infections,” Buddemeier says. ’ ’   Only very dense and thick materials, like many feet of dirt or   inches of lead, can reliably stop the fallout. ’ ’   ”The fireball from a   explosion is so hot, it actually   shoots up into the atmosphere at over 100 miles per hour,”   Buddemeier says. ”These fission products mix in with the dirt and   debris that’’s drawn up into the atmosphere from the fireball.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trapped in sand, dirt, cement, metal, and anything else in the   immediate blast area, the   fission products can fly   more than five miles into the air. The larger pieces drop back   down, while lighter particles can be carried by the wind before   raining over distant areas. ’ ’   ”Close in to the [blast] site, they may be a bit larger than      but really what we’’re talking about are things   like   or   particles,” Buddemeier says. ”It’’s the   penetrating gamma radiation coming off of those particles that’’s   the hazard.” ’ ’   Which brings us back to why a car is a terrible place to take   shelter. ’ ’   ”Modern vehicles are made of glass and very light metals, and   they offer almost no protection,” he says. ”You’’re just going to   sit on a road some place [and be exposed].” ’ ”   Buddemeier says he’s asked people what their   response   to a nuclear blast might be. It wasn’t comforting. ” ’   ”There was actually a lot of folks who had this notion  —   and it   may be a Hollywood notion  —   of ’’oh, jump in the car and try to   skedaddle out of town if you see a mushroom cloud. ’’” he says. ’ ’   However, fallout is carried by   winds that are   ”often booking along at 100 miles per hour,” he says, and ”often   not going in the same direction as the   winds. So   your ability to know where the fallout’’s gonna go, and outrun it,   are  …     Well, it’’s very unlikely.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Your best shot at survival after a nuclear disaster is to get   into some sort of ”robust structure” as quickly as possible and   stay there, Buddemeier says. He’’s a fan of the mantra ”go in,   stay in, tune in”. ’ ’   ”Get inside . .. and get to the center of that building. If you   happen to have access to   areas, getting     is great,” he says. ”Stay in: 12 to 24 hours.” ’ ’   The reason to wait is that levels of gamma and other radiation   fall off exponentially after a nuclear blast as ”hot”   radioisotopes decay into more stable atoms and pose less of a   danger. This slowly shrinks the dangerous fallout zone  —   the area   where   winds have dropped fission products. (Instead   of staying put, however, a recent study also suggested that   moving to seek out a stronger shelter or basement  if the only one around is flimsy.) ’ ’  ’ ’   Finally, tune in. ’ ’   ”Try to use whatever communication tools you have,” he says. He   added that a   radio is a good object to keep at work   and home, since emergency providers, in addition to broadcasting   instructions, will be tracking the fallout cloud and trying to   broadcast where any safe corridors for escape are located. ’ ’   There is only one exception to the ”no cars” rule, says   Buddemeier: If you’’re in a parking garage with your car, the   concrete might act as a shield. In that case, you could stay   there and listen to a radio inside your car. ’ ’   If everyone followed these guidelines after nuclear blast, he   says, hundreds of thousands of lives could be saved. ’ ’Nuclear blasts create fallout, which can harm. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’