’  ’ ”   Democrats in Congress blasted the Republicans’ revised   American Health Care Act (AHCA) in light of a  released Wednesday that   projected the bill would reportedly save $119 billion   through 2026 at the expense of 23 million uninsured people. ” ’   Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said that ”unless you’’re a   healthy millionaire,” the AHCA would be a ”nightmare.” ’ ’   ”The report makes clear that Trumpcare would be a cancer on the   American health care system  —   causing costs to skyrocket, making   coverage unaffordable for those with preexisting conditions and   many seniors, and kicking millions off of their health   insurance,” Schumer said Wednesday. ’ ’   Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin also criticized the bill. ’ ’   ”No wonder the Republicans were afraid of the CBO analysis,”   Durbin said in a statement. ”Trumpcare 2. 0 will still force   millions of Americans to lose their health insurance, raise   premiums, and put critical health care services beyond the reach   of   families. All of this to give a GOP tax cut   to the wealthiest.” ’ ’’ ’   Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont kept it succinct,  ”What a   disgrace” shortly after the CBO score was released. ’ ’   Sanders continued railing on the AHCA during a press conference   with other Democratic lawmakers on Wednesday. ’ ’   ”It’’s not a healthcare bill,” he said. ”So call it whatever you   want, but please do not call this a healthcare bill.” ’ ’   The CBO also reported that the AHCA would slash $834 million   from Medicaid, the bulk of which would be diverted   to tax cuts. ’ ’   ”Premiums would vary significantly according to health status and   the types of benefits provided, and less healthy people would   face extremely high premiums,” the report stated. ’ ’   Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said the AHCA ”has no   pulse because it has no heart.” ’ ’   ”The CBO  —   [a] nonpartisan   score  —   shows what a horror   show this Republican plan is for people who need healthcare   most,” he said. ”What this scores shows is monstrous mounting   costs, skyrocketing financial cost, catastrophic human cost,   unconscionable moral cost  —   those clear facts are undeniable.” ’ ’   Sen. Chris Murphy, also of Connecticut, noted the potential harm   to those with preexisting conditions. ’ ’   ”If you are an individual with a preexisting condition in a   state that uses the waiver, you will not be able to buy   insurance,” Murphy said. ”If you are sick, if you have ever been   sick in this country, you are now at risk of losing your   healthcare. That’’s plainly what CBO says.” ’ ’Democrats in Congress blasted the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’