’  ’ ”   On Thursday, the   movement will face it’s latest test  —     this one in Big Sky Country. ” ”   Rob Quist, a locally famous bluegrass musician running on the   Democratic ticket, is facing off against a multimillionaire tech   company founder, Republican Greg Gianforte, in the race for   Montana’s sole House of Representatives seat, which was vacated   in March when President Donald Trump tapped Ryan Zinke to be   secretary of the interior. ” ’   Like two other special elections in conservative districts in   Kansas and Georgia, the Montana race has drawn outsize national   money and attention and is looking to be competitive. ’ ’   It would be easy to write off Montana as infertile ground for the   resistance  —   Trump swept the state by 20 points in November  —   but   it has a strong independent streak and is currently led by a   Democratic governor and senator. ’ ”   Both parties are looking at the Montana race as a harbinger of   what’s to come  —   particularly in predominantly white, rural   communities.  ” ’   ”Win or lose, if Quist can make this race close, it’’ll mean that   a lot of   Republicans will be highly vulnerable in next   year’’s midterms,” David Nir, political director of the liberal   website Daily Kos, told Business Insider. ’ ’   Like much of the country, Montana is suffering from unusually   deep political divides. Don Pogreba, a high school teacher and   liberal blogger from Helena, Montana, told Business Insider that   he’’s been surprised by the ”nastiness” characterizing state   politics today. ’ ’   ”I saw the other day some people were protesting at the capital   and they were holding up ’’traitor Tester’’ signs and there was the   speaker of the House in Montana, who’’s a Republican, standing   there with them,” Pogreba said, referring to Montana’’s Democratic   senator, Jon Tester. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think that you would have seen that 10 or 15 years ago,”   he added. ’ ’  ’ ’   But Pogreba said many Montanans harbor a ”healthy degree of   skepticism” of the new administration, which some saw as simply a   more attractive alternative to Democratic presidential nominee   Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   ”Montana is probably trending a little conservative from it’’s   purple status,” he said, ”but I think that the margin Trump won   by in November was to some extent driven by     sentiment more than huge enthusiasm for Trump.” ’ ’   Responding to this   sentiment, Quist has welcomed   Bernie Sanders, the senator from Vermont who ran against Clinton   for the Democratic presidential nomination. Sanders won the   primary in Montana and retains widespread support among   progressives, independents, and Republicans who lean libertarian.   Signaling his distance from the Democratic establishment, Quist   also  an offer from Democratic National Committee chair   Tom Perez to campaign with him. ’ ’   Last weekend, Sanders flew out to stump with Quist, drawing   energetic crowds across the state just days before the election. ’ ”   Joel Fassbinder, the president of Montana’s union of professional   firefighters, which endorsed Quist, said that many of his   members, who were evenly split between Clinton and Trump last   fall, appreciate Quist’s apparent independence. ” ’   ”We’’re not seeing him beholden to a party,” Fassbinder told   Business Insider. ”That really resonates with our membership,   whether they’’re Democrat or Republican. They just like somebody   who’’s gonna have spine and do the right thing.” ’ ’   Rachel   executive director of  told Business   Insider that many of Montana’’s young voters, over half of whom   identify as independents, largely embrace ”populist, progressive   values.” ’ ’   While Quist is framing himself as a party outsider, Gianforte has   allied himself closely with the Trump administration  —   he   campaigned across the state with Vice President Mike Pence,   Zinke, and Donald Trump Jr. who also joined him on a prairie dog   hunt. ’ ’   ”This election is about is Montana gonna send somebody who’’s   going to work with Donald Trump and be a strong voice for   Montana?” Gianforte told Business Insider. ”Or is Montana gonna   send someone who’’s gonna fall in lockstep behind Nancy Pelosi?” ’ ”   While Trump’s backing will likely strengthen Gianforte’s support   with the state’s Republican base, some argue the move has lost   him votes among Trump skeptics. ” ’   ”I don’’t think a lot of people like the idea of the     from back east running for our seat,” Pogreba   said. ”And then to have another   from back east   put on his brand new hunting clothes to go shoot prairie dogs  —   I   don’’t think it played very well.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Gianforte, who became a billionaire after selling his software   company  in 2011, has framed himself as a     engineer who will boost job growth in the state, while Quist has   sold himself as a folksy son of a rancher who will protect   average Montanans. ’ ”   But to critics, Gianforte, 56, who lost the state’s gubernatorial   race in 2016, is a      looking out for   fellow millionaires. ” ’   To Gianforte’’s camp, Quist is a   musician  —   a   ”  hippie”  —   who will conform to the Democratic party   line  —   ”Nancy Pelosi in a cowboy hat,” Gianforte calls him. ’ ’   ”In all honesty, I think he’’s more of a joke,” Jason Hodges, a   Montana State University student and leader of the state’’s   college Republicans, said of Quist. ’ ”   Quist has campaigned heavily on his pledge to protect the   Affordable Care Act, which is popular across the state,   particularly among rural and older communities, which would   likely be hurt by the GOP’s American Health Care Act. ” ’   Sanders doubled down on the issue while campaigning with Quist   last weekend. ’ ’   “Rob and I are going to do everything we can to bury that   horrific, disgusting piece of legislation that passed two weeks   ago,” Sanders said of the AHCA, according to  ’ ”   Gianforte has done his best to drive a wedge between himself and   Quist on what is perhaps the Democratic Party’s greatest weakness   in the state  —   gun rights. He’s attacked a statement Quist made   about establishing a gun registry for automatic weapons (which   Quist has walked back) criticizes the fact that he hasn’t bought   a hunting or fishing license in 16 years, and rarely misses an   opportunity to bring up Quist’s F rating from the National Rifle   Association. ” ”   Quist responded to the allegations with  in which   he shoots a TV (playing an )   with an old rifle on his family’s ranch. ” ’ ’ ’   Gianforte shot back with  in   which he targets a computer showing the national gun registry he   says Quist will advocate for. ’ ’ ’ ’   Illustrating Montana’’s deep attachment to the Second Amendment,   the Libertarian candidate, Mark Wicks, has  that the right to bear arms is ”more important than   the Constitution.” ’ ’   Fassbinder said Quist needs to prove he’’ll break from Democratic   Party orthodoxy on gun issues in order to find widespread support   among firefighters, who are targets of Republican   ”fearmongering.” ’ ’   ”Sometimes there are really tough conversations to be had in the   firehouse, just to assure them that nobody’’s coming after their   guns,” Fassbinder said, adding, ”Holy cow, they all thought   Barack Obama was gonna take their guns away and he was the   president who actually allowed them to be carried in national   parks.” ’ ’   Luckily for Quist, Democrats view a looser approach to gun   control as a small price to pay to broaden appeal in a staunchly     state like Montana. ’ ”   Judging by the amount of money national Republican groups have   sent to Montana, it would seem they’re somewhat worried. As of     the Republican National Committee had spent $4. 7 million   on the race  —   a remarkable amount for a House race in a state   where advertising is cheap  —   while national Democratic groups   have spent under $1 million. ” ”   The DNC’s relatively meager financial support has frustrated many   Democratic activists, which, in turn, has helped boost grassroots   donations to Quist’s campaign, which raised $2. 4 million between   the beginning of April and May 5  —   far outpacing Gianforte, who   raised $1. 6 million in the same period, $1 million of which was a   loan from the candidate. ” ”   Last week, Quist announced he had raised over $5 million   throughout the course of the campaign. The average donation sum   to Quist’s campaign is $25. ” ’   Voter turnout is a cause of concern, particularly for Democrats,   whose attempt to pass a   ballot bill, which would have   allowed counties to collect ballots without physical polling   stations, was crushed by Republicans in March. ’ ’   While it’’s unclear whether   balloting would have helped   Quist, the state Republican Party chairman  prior to the vote that the bill would have   advantaged Democrats who can ”organize large numbers of unpaid   college students and members of public employee unions to gather   ballots by going door to door.” ’ ”     added that the special election’s timing  —   on a   Thursday in the spring  —   is unusual, and that most college   students in Montana are already on summer break  —   both factors   that might depress voter turnout. ” ’   While a   poll conducted by Democrats showed   Gianforte with 44% of the vote and Quist with 38% more recent   polling has Quist catching up with his opponent. ’ ’   Sara Rinfret, a political science professor at the University of   Montana, says Montana voters are hard to predict. ’ ’   ”It could go any way, that’’s just how Montana is,” she said. ’ ’On Thursday, the   movement will face. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’