’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton gave the commencement address at her alma mater,   Wellesley College, on Friday afternoon, delivering her most   extended and blistering attack on President Donald Trump since   her loss in the 2016 election. ’ ’   At the crux of Clinton’’s speech was a call to arms to the   graduating class at the women’’s college, encouraging them to   become politically engaged and to ”advance the struggle for   equality, justice, and freedom.” ’ ’   But she peppered the speech with a series of strongly worded   criticisms of the Trump administration’’s conduct and policies,   attacking its use of the term ”alternative facts,” its boasting   about the size of the crowds at Trump’’s inauguration, its   proposed budget, and Trump’’s use of the phrase ”nasty woman” to   refer to her in a debate. ’ ’   Clinton told the students they were ”graduating at a time when   there is a   assault on truth and reason.” ’ ’   ”When people in power invent their own facts and attack those who   question them, it can mark the beginning of the end of a free   society,” Clinton said. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tClinton to graduates: “You are graduating at a time when there is a   assault on truth and reason. ” ’ ’   Clinton added that some ”are even denying things we see with our   own eyes, like the size of crowds and then defending themselves   by talking about ’’alternative facts. ’’” ’ ’   Trump and his surrogates faced criticism after Trump’’s   inauguration for pushing back on media coverage suggesting that   President Barack Obama had much larger crowds at his 2009   inauguration. Kellyanne Conway, a top Trump adviser, then said   the administration was putting out ”alternative facts” on Trump’’s   crowd size. ’ ’   Clinton also called Trump’’s proposed budget ”an attack of   unimaginable cruelty on the most vulnerable among us  —   the   youngest, the oldest, the poorest, and hardworking people who   need a little help to gain or hang on to a decent     life.” ’ ’   She said that when she graduated in 1969, she and her fellow   classmates were similarly ”furious” about a recent election  —     that of President Richard Nixon. She went on to add, to roaring   applause, that Nixon’’s presidency ”would eventually end in   disgrace with his impeachment for obstruction of justice.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tHillary Clinton brings up Richard Nixon’s impeachment and obstruction of justice during her commencement speech  ” ’   But, Clinton said, ”we got through that tumultuous time.” ’ ”   Clinton’s reference to Nixon and impeachment seemed deliberate   considering the recent controversy over Trump’s firing of the FBI   director, James Comey, who was overseeing the bureau’s   investigation into whether the Trump campaign colluded with   Russian officials to swing the 2016 election. Comey’s firing has   led to questions over whether Trump was trying to obstruct that   investigation. ” ”   The latter part of Clinton’s speech focused on encouraging young   women and girls to get engaged in politics and to make the   changes in society they want to see. ” ”   She pushed back against criticism of elites, telling the   graduates to not let people tell them their voices don’t matter. ” ’   ”In the years to come, there will be trolls galore, online and in   person, eager to tell you that you don’’t have anything worthwhile   to say or anything meaningful to contribute. They may even call   you a ’’nasty woman,’’” Clinton said. ”Some may take a slightly   more sophisticated approach and say your elite education means   you are out of touch with real people.” ’ ’   But she encouraged the graduates not to lose hope. ’ ’   ”It’’s often during the darkest times that you can do the most   good,” Clinton said, later adding: ”Don’’t be afraid of your   dreams, your ambitions, or even your anger  —   those are powerful   forces, but harness them to make a difference in the world.” ’ ’Hillary Clinton gave the commencement address. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’