’  ’ ’   An investigation into one of Iraq’’s ”effective fighting force” is   underway after a photojournalist captured footage of them   torturing and performing extrajudicial killings. ’ ”   The Iraqi government is said to be looking into the abuse   allegations against the Interior Ministry’s Emergency Response   Division, . ” ’   The allegations stem from video footage recorded by Ali Arkady,   an Iraqi photojournalist embedded with the ERD  —   a special     team that had been praised by US military commanders   as one of the principal liberators of Fallujah. ’ ’   Footage of the alleged torture depicts a man suspended from the   ceiling  —   hanging just from his hands that are tied behind his   back  —   with a case of water bottles placed on top of his   shoulders to weigh him down. Another image shows an individual   poking his fingers into the eye sockets of another man. ’ ’   One officer struck a man in the head 15 times and ordered him to   recite a pledge to Abu Bakr   ISIS’’ purported   leader. ”Say the pledge, say the pledge,” he said, . ”I will hit you in the nuts.” ’ ’   Arkady said that the man eventually recited the ISIS pledge.   Afterward, the officer asked Arkady to edit the footage to make   it seem like the man had recited the pledge without instruction. ’ ’   ”This is a powder keg for strategic failure,” retired Special   Forces officer Scott Mann told ABC News. ”This is the narrative   fuel that groups like ISIS look for.” ’ ’  ’ ’   After publishing the footage, Arkady and his immediate family   fled to Europe in fear of retaliation from the ERD. ”I don’’t   know,” Arkady said after being asked whether he thinks he’’ll be   returning to Iraq. ”Really, I don’’t know. I’’d like, because I   love Baghdad and Iraq.” ’ ”   The threat of retaliation for Arkady’s   appears to   be credible, as ABC News reports that his family members have   received evocative text messages from the group. ” ’   ”Sir, we have a matter that concerns us and I want to solve it   with you quietly,” one of ERD’’s officers texted to Arkady’’s   father. ”Tribal law holds you responsible as his father.” ’ ’   The Interior Ministry stated that it would ”investigate the   matter clearly and impartially,” and that it would ”take legal   action in accordance with the laws,” reported The Post. ’ ’   US officials claimed that they were unaware of the incidents;   however, in a statement to ABC News, they said the US ”has not   provided military aid, arms or assistance to the Emergency   Response Division.” ’ ’   The US is bound by the Leahy Act, a federal law that prevents the   US from issuing military aid if there is ”credible information   that such unit has committed a gross violation of human rights.” ’ ’ ’ ’An investigation into one of Iraq’’s ”effective. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’