’  ’ ’   Tim Armstrong is the CEO of AOL, and he will be the CEO of the   combined   company under Verizon once that merger is   completed. ’ ’   Before joining AOL, Armstrong was an executive at Google who   helped build its advertising business from $700, 000 a year to   billions every quarter. He was also an expert advertising   salesman and entrepreneur, and the first person to sell a $1   million   deal, back when all the money was   flowing to print and TV companies. ’ ”   Armstrong visited Business Insider and spoke with Business   Insider’s US editor in chief, Alyson Shontell, for  ” ’   In the interview, Armstrong discussed how he built a     career. During the   conversation, he talked about: ’ ” Here’s the full interview, which you can listen to   below. ” ’ ’ ’   Subscribe to ”Success! How I Did It” on  or . Check out previous episodes with: ’ ”   Or, if you’d rather read the Tim Armstrong interview, here’s a   transcript, which has been lightly edited for clarity and length. ” ’    ’ ”   Alyson Shontell: Tim Armstrong is the CEO of AOL, and he’ll be   the head of the combined   company when the merger   closes. Before AOL, Tim built Google’s ad products and is   basically responsible for the brainchild of AdSense. And he built   the ad team from scratch. We’re really happy to have you, Tim. ” ’Tim Armstrong: Alyson, good to see you. Thanks   for having me on a rainy New York day. ’ ’Shontell: I want to go all the way back, to the   beginning of your career. It sounds as if you were always   entrepreneurial. I remember the story about your making a   strawberry farm successful during college? ’ ’Armstrong: When I was growing up, I always had   the entrepreneurial bug. There were multiple things I did when I   was younger, in my   and   ages. But one of   them was with a friend from college. There was a strawberry farm   that the bank owned. I don’’t know if the farmer had lost it to   the bank, but there was a strawberry farm, and we went to the   bank and they weren’’t using the farm, so we said, ”Could we take   over the farm for the summer and do a    strawberries?   It’’d be a lot less work for us, and probably a lot more   profitable.” ’ ”   And so we did a   strawberry farm, from a farm we didn’t   own, and cut a deal with the bank to do it. We had hundreds of   customers drive up and go pick their own strawberries, and it   ended up being a very successful venture and a lot of fun. ” ’Shontell: So then you graduate and you have a   short stint in finance? ’ ’Armstrong: Right when I graduated from college,   I actually taught a program called the Explorer Program at   Wellesley College. That was for the summer. Then I went to an   investment bank in Boston, and I was there for about three or   four months, and I realized that banking was not something for   me. So I went to my boss and said, ”You know, I think you should   let me go.” ’ ’Shontell: You volunteered to be fired? ’ ’Armstrong: Yeah, I just said, ”I don’’t think   this is the career for me, and I should do something else.” And   they said, ”No, why don’’t you stay? It seems like you could do a   good job here over time.” And I said, ”I want to go do something   else.” So I left and ended up starting a newspaper in Boston, out   of that experience. And that’’s really what got me  —   if you look   back to the seminal moment for me  —   what got me sitting here   today  —   it was really that decision. ’ ”Shontell: It’s no wonder you’re the head of   essentially a media company now. So BIB, was the “Beginnings in   Boston” newspaper that you started. And the way you got into   that, I guess you had been   executives, just hoping   they would talk to you? And you discovered that nobody would talk   to you unless you were a reporter? ” ’Armstrong: I was calling people in Boston. I was   really trying to just figure out what I wanted to do, and learn   about different careers. I again had thought that banking would   be something I would be really interested in, but when I realized   it wasn’’t, I thought, ”I should go do research and find out,   really, what I want to do.” And so I would call different   executives in Boston, CEOs of companies, and see if they would   meet with me, and not many of them would. I called one of a very   large financial institution in Boston, and the woman was very   nice on the phone, the CEO’s assistant. She said, ”You know, the   only people who really   here, or who get through to the   CEO, are journalists.” ’ ’   Later that night, I was talking to my roommate and I said, ”You   know what we should do? We have all our friends in their 20s,   everyone’’s finding jobs or figuring out what they want to do  —     why don’’t we start a publication to get advice from all of these   people, and give it to them? Boston’’s filled with young people   graduating.” ’ ”   So we decided to launch the magazine. It was targeted at exactly   my demographic back then, and I didn’t know anything about   publishing newspapers or magazines, but we basically launched   from scratch. ” ’   We sold everything we owned  —   cars, bikes, surfboards, the whole   thing. We bought an Apple Quadra 650 computer. And we basically   learned how to publish from scratch, and print from scratch,   distribute from scratch. ’ ”   In that journey, I learned probably the most I’ve ever learned,   just about what a business is from start to finish. And it was a   wonderful experience. It was really hard. We did an OK job at it,   not great. And we ended up buying a second newspaper, which was a   better idea. That was in Cambridge and Harvard Square. So that   was the launch of my phone calls to newspaper ownership, in a   very short time period. ” ”Shontell: It sounds like you never had a problem     people, which is Sales 101. So it’s not really   surprising that you ended up having a career in that. But you   were telling me a funny story before this podcast, about how   actor Casey Affleck used to work with you? ” ’Armstrong: So we bought the second newspaper,   The Square Deal, and if you went to Harvard back in those days,   you used it. It had coupons in the back; it told you what was   happening around town, in Cambridge Square. And we hired people,   kids from Harvard, to hand them out to other Harvard students. ’ ’   I was at a dinner a couple of years ago, when Casey Affleck said   to me, ”Hey do you remember me? Do I look familiar?” ’ ’   And I said, ”Yeah, of course you’’re familiar  —   you strike me as   very familiar.” ’ ’   He said, ”You don’’t remember, but I used to work at The Square   Deal and hand out the newspapers for you.” Obviously he’’s done   really well, and he’’s not handing out newspapers anymore, for   sure. I think he’’s even won an Academy Award, so that was a fun   story, and a good memory back to the old days. ’ ’    ’ ’   Shontell: So you soon became interested in the internet. You   visited MIT and saw a presentation about it, and you switched   gears. What happened there? ’ ’Armstrong: Another friend of mine, Peter Dunn,   owned a store in Boston called Cool Beans, which was a Grateful   Dead store. And he was very networked in the Cambridge and MIT   communities. He said, ”Hey, there are some people coming. They   have this new thing called an ”internet browser.” We’’re going to   meet down at MIT, and you can see it.” ’ ’   I went down, and literally within one minute of them turning it   on and showing what the browser did, I looked at my friend and   said, ”I’’m selling my newspaper as soon as I got back to the   office. I’’m going to go do this thing. This is 100 times easier,   faster, and more scalable than what we’’re doing in the newspaper   business.” ’ ’   And so I literally went back, called my parents on the way home   from that meeting, and I said, ”I’’m selling the newspaper. I’’m   going to try to move to an internet environment.” ’ ’   We started actually trying to put our newspapers online. This is   1994, I think. And then, long story short, I moved pretty   quickly. We sold our share in the newspaper back to another   publisher in Boston, and then I went off to start doing internet   things, which was a lot of fun. ’ ’Shontell: So you rise as this great salesperson,   with the first internet magazine, I believe. And the company you   end up later working for gets acquired by Disney? ’ ’Armstrong: Yes. After the newspaper, the only   thing I found right away  —   because not many people were doing   internet things  —   was IDG, the big tech publisher, was launching   the first internet magazine, which was a magazine about the   coming internet. ’ ’   I went to work there. In those travels  —   it’’s an incredibly long   story  —   but I went to an event with the founders of NASCAR, the   France family. And the Frances got up and gave a presentation   about where they thought this internet thing was going. I talked   to the NASCAR family, and they basically said, ”Look, there’’s   this company. Paul Allen’’s starting a company on the West Coast   called ’’Star Wave. ’’” ’ ’Shontell: Microsoft cofounder Paul Allen, right? ’ ’Armstrong: Yes. And they were the first real   content company on the internet. So when I got back to Boston   from that trip, I had a voicemail on my phone from Star Wave. And   they said, ”Hey, we heard you’’re in Boston. We hear you’’re doing   internet things, and you’’re trying to do advertising and content   on the internet. We have a company in Seattle. Would you like to   come out and visit us?” So I flew out to Seattle. I did a day’’s   worth of interviews and got offered the job at the end of the   day. I went back, moved from Boston with a bag of clothes  —   I   didn’’t own anything else at the time  —  and moved to Seattle. And I   had an awesome experience out of Star Wave. ’ ’   We launched ESPN. com, NFL. com, ABCnews. com, and worked with a   whole crew of people from all over the US who had moved there to   really get into internet content. And that was an amazing   experience. Then Disney bought us. I ended up moving back to New   York, to work for Disney, helping them get their internet things   off the ground, including ESPN and ABC. ’ ”Shontell: From what I understand, you were   pretty young when you went out to Seattle. You were in your     maybe, and you were working across platforms, which was a   really early concept of    plus all these things.   And you’re also working with the   sales guys, who are   the old guys who’ve worked their way up to the top. How did they   let you in? Why were you such a good salesman? ” ”Armstrong: Well, one is, when I was at Star Wave   in Seattle originally, I had done, at the time, the largest deal   on the internet ever done. So I did a $1 million deal back in   probably 1996 or 1997. And this was when most of the deals were   $10, 000 deals. I got on Paul Allen’s radar screen. I ended up   flying down to a Portland Trailblazers game with Paul Allen and   some friends from Star Wave. And then when Disney bought the   company and I moved to New York, people knew about this deal. ” ”   The deal I had done was with Rick Scott, who’s now the governor   of Florida. He was the CEO of   and he did the first   really, truly large ad deal at Star Wave and for ESPN. When I got   to New York, I sort of had a reputation of somebody who was   energetic, creative, and doing deals. ” ”   I showed up in New York, and I was really one of only a couple   internet people there. It was a little bit more like we were      people who didn’t fit into the normal way that   everything was happening in New York and media. So they kind of   took us everywhere. It was sort of like a    show, and   we were the dog. ” ’   I learned a lot from working at ESPN, which was an amazing   company with amazing people. I got to spend a lot of time with   people who were super knowledgeable about advertising and super   knowledgeable about content. I became, like, their internet   buddy. ’ ’  ’ ”Shontell: That served you well, because then   Google came calling. Google at the time was this tiny startup. It   was barely generating any revenue. Omid Kordestani, who’s now the   executive chairman of Twitter, calls you up. ” ’Armstrong: Right. ’ ”Shontell: And he’s at Google at the time. What   does he say and what’s that meeting like? ” ’Armstrong: Omid had called, through another   woman I worked with at Star Wave. And he said, ”Can you meet me   in New York City?” I met him at the Carlisle Hotel in New York on   a rainy Friday. And we hit it off right away. If you know Omid,   he’’s one of the best humans on the planet, and one of the most   engaging. ’ ’   At that time, Google was into licensing software. That was the   main business model at that point. And they were thinking about   getting more into advertising, so Omid asked me a whole bunch of   questions about what I thought, and I ended up going out to meet   and have breakfast with Sergey Brin in Palo Alto. ’ ”   I had had another job offer at the time from a large gaming   company, an unbelievable job. Which would have, at my age, been   super enticing. But after meeting Omid and Larry Page and Sergey   Brin, and some other people from Google, you could tell there was   going to be magic there. And it wasn’t exactly clear what it was   going to be, but I decided to join Google, and that was a great   decision. A lot of fun, and just an unbelievable experience. And   again,   people. It was a highlight for me. ” ”Shontell: Do you remember what that first   meeting with Larry and Sergey was like? What is it like meeting   the Google founders back then, as they’re growing it? ” ’Armstrong: I don’’t think I’’ve ever told this   story. But when I had my first discussion with them, they   basically said at the beginning of the meeting, after a few   questions, ”We’’re not really sure what to ask you. Ask yourself   the questions. Like, what questions would you ask yourself, if   you were us?” ’ ’   So I said, ”Look, I’’m very direct person, very honest. Here’’s   what I would ask, the following questions.” And I thought that   was interesting. I realized later, after working with them, that   that was not an anomaly, that was one of their tactics. ’ ”   But they were driven. I think to this day, Larry and Sergey are   obviously very smart, and very creative. They’re very competitive   also, in a good way. I’d say they care a lot. At their size now   and what they’re doing, I’m sure there’s a lot of feedback on   them, how people feel about them. But they’re, at their heart,   very good people. Both of them. ” ’    ’ ”   Shontell: When you get to Google, it’s generating about $700, 000   a year in ad revenue. And now it’s generating about $25 billion a   quarter. So you got in and helped them figure out what ad   products were going to work. And one was AdSense, right? How did   you help develop that? It’s now a       business for them. ” ’Armstrong: First of all, Salar Kamangar used to   be the head of YouTube and was really the brainchild behind   AdWords, and a few other people we worked with. Really, it all   kind of came together in a very   way, of how AdWords   got off the ground, and the ad business. But there were a whole   bunch of us working on it, and it had a good outcome on the   AdWords side. ’ ’   And then one day a guy named John Firm, who worked in our     group, came and said, ”Hey, we have a whole bunch of   customers who don’’t have budgets spent on search. They basically   load all their budgets in. There’’s lot of room for other places   they could run it, but we can’’t spend all their money.” ’ ’   And by the way, one of our publishers, About. com, said, ”Is there   any way for you guys to help us figure out how to make more   money?” And so we literally took a PowerPoint page, mocked up a   content page, and put AdWord boxes on it that were laid into the   content. We took it into the Google meeting, to the     meeting, and said, ”Hey, why don’’t we syndicate   all of our ads onto content properties?” ’ ’   Which today doesn’’t sound like brain surgery, but it was a moment   in the company’’s history when there were a whole bunch of people   who didn’’t want to do it. They were like, ”We’’re a search   company. Let’’s stay focused on search. This doesn’’t make any   sense. Display ads don’’t really work.” ’ ”   There was a big argument, back and forth, but at the end of the   day we got a group of engineers. We hired Kurt Abrahamson, who   was the president of Jupiter, to come and run it. We spend about   a year in my group developing it and growing it, and then we   turned it over to Susan Wojcicki, who’s running YouTube now. She   took it over and ran it. ” ’   Then Applied Semantics was a company that was bought by the   product and engineering team, so that was another product that   had a lot of founders to it, I guess, and a lot of success   because a lot of energy got put into it. ’ ”   One untold story about Google I should have gone back to is, one   of the reasons Google is successful in ads is because the     business went away. Yahoo bought Inktomi, and so   one of Google’s major revenue lines kind of went away, because   search licensing went to a free model from a paid model. That   allowed a lot of the engineering talent at Google to go focus on   ads. I think without that type of transition, we never would have   had the horsepower in terms of the intellectual capital on   engineering a product. ” ”   Sometimes in business you get lucky, and what looked like a bad   situation with the licensing business turned out to be an   unbelievably big opportunity. And that’s really what led to   AdWords. And with the DoubleClick acquisition, there was lots of   stuff like that that came out of it. What looked like a tough   situation originally turned out to be a boon for the entire   company. ” ’Shontell: So this works. You become this god   within Google, managing this massive department. ’ ’Armstrong: I was not a god within Google. There   were a lot of gods within Google. So there was a massively   talented team there. Unbelievable talent, yeah. ’ ’    ’ ”   Shontell: Well, that may be true, but still. The head of Time   Warner gives you a call, Jeff Bewkes. He notices what you’ve   built and what you’ve done. This is 2009. What made you intrigued   to take a meeting with him, and to talk about the idea of joining   AOL? ” ’Armstrong: You know, a few things I would go   back to. The reason I ended up going to Google was that it looked   like there was a huge opportunity in the information business,   and putting information connected with where commerce happens,   was a big opportunity. Earlier in the 2000s I had cofounded and   funded a company with my college roommate, Luke Beatty, called   Associated Content, which was more of a content company that   eventually got sold to Yahoo. ’ ”   But my time at Google, I’d say after I was there for almost 10   years, I have a personal career philosophy, which is, I think you   should continue to do something as long as you’re learning   quantum number of things in general. And I think the quantum   learning is probably the most important attribute to people’s   careers, to continue to grow. ” ”   At Google I just wasn’t learning anymore, but my interest level   over time had started to get really focused in on the content   space, and where media was going, and working on Associated   Content a little bit. I was on the board for a while. It got me   interested in where content was going. ” ”   And then when Jeff Bewkes called, it seemed like a unique   opportunity. I could go into my investing philosophy, but I’m   also somebody who likes to invest. I think a lot of opportunities   are opportunities because everyone can’t see them. And if you can   read something in the newspaper, it’s probably not an opportunity   anymore. And AOL was the exact opposite. It was something that   everyone had given up on, but they had a lot of resources, a lot   of users, and they had a lot of talent. So it seemed like an   opportunity. ” ”   If I was going to do something disruptive, that’ll also be a big   runway to do something disruptive because people frankly were   counting it out. I think that you have a choice to go to a   startup to start something, or you have a choice to do something   at bigger scale. I wanted to do something at bigger scale. ” ”   And it was just an interesting asset. It was probably going to be   a windy path, because it was inside of Time Warner. If we wanted   to spin it out, we’d have to go through the whole process of   spinning it out, and then we’d have to make all these changes to   the company, and it was a challenging experience, and that’s what   I wanted at the time. ” ’    ’ ”   Shontell: So at the time when you’re having this conversation,   you’re thinking about taking the job. But there was a graveyard   of AOL CEOs. There were five, I think, within that decade. How   did you measure the risk, and how did you decide to jump? How did   you make sure you weren’t the sixth CEO in that graveyard? ” ”Armstrong: Yeah, you know, it’s interesting. I   didn’t want to take the job if I didn’t think I could do it. And   I definitely had a lot of reflection time on that, because a lot   of these companies that have these situations have a lot of CEOs,   and they’re all smart people. They are good at their careers. I   was carefully thinking about it, but on the other hand I thought:   What if this totally fails and it’s the world’s biggest failure?   Really  —   who cares? I’ll probably learn more doing it. ” ’   A lot of people said to me, ”Why would you ever leave Google? Why   would you leave Google and your reputation at Google to go do   something like AOL?” But I thought about it the opposite way,   which was, if you wanted to have the most intense learning   experience, and apply a lot of the skills I had learned in the 10   or 15 years prior, AOL seemed like a great opportunity to do   that. My personality is more entrepreneurial, and it just seemed   like an opportunity that, although it had tons of risk, it also   had tons of opportunity. And you’’ve got to be willing. ’ ’   My dad said to me the night before I started at AOL, ”This is a      moment. If you fail at this, you can’’t walk   backward. So you should figure out how to always look forward.” ’ ”   And I think that was a great piece of advice, because that’s   essentially what we had to do, over and over and over again. ” ”Shontell: How do you make a      decision? How do you know you’re making the right choice?   Especially as the leader of a huge company? ” ’Armstrong: One thing is, when I took the AOL   job, I traveled around and went on a little mini leadership   roadshow before I actually started. ’ ’   I got to announce that I was going to start, and then I had some   time before I started and I spent a lot of time with a lot of   different leaders, who I respected, who are big leaders across   corporate America and some entrepreneurs. ’ ’   Essentially, I think in a CEO job, you have to be OK with risk   and you have to be OK with failure. I have a saying which is,   ”You have to fail toward a goal.” ’ ”   As long as you’re failing, if you know what the goal is, it’s OK   to fail in that direction. And that’s the advice I got from   people. On that roadshow, I had a lot of people challenge me. The   best mentors I had are also the most challenging people. And on   that roadshow, they asked me a lot of the questions I ended up   facing further on. I wasn’t prepared for all of them but I kind   of knew what the role was, and what the job was going to be. And   fortunately, or unfortunately, for AOL, a lot of that I learned   on the job overall. So it was challenging. ” ”Shontell: And when you come into a new job like   that, do you need to bring your own team with you? Because that’s   something you did. You cleared out the executives, brought in   some people from Google. Was that essential? ” ’Armstrong: When I first started I brought a   couple people like Maureen Sullivan, who’’s the president who runs   Rent the Runway now. She was the first person who came over from   Google with me. And what I told the AOL team was, ”Look, this is   the team. Everyone’’s going to have their shot. We have to change   what we’’re doing. Some of the changes, if you want to roll with   them and stick with them, great. If this is not what you want to   do, raise your hand, because we’’re going to go in a different   direction.” And I think over time I did end up bringing a bunch   of people in from Google, and other people as well. ’ ”   I would say looking back on it, overall, you had a very   challenged company. Out of the gates, we were trying to spin a   company out of a public company and take it public alone, which   is a massive challenge. Forget about one that’s in a downturn,   overall. I think there was a whole group of us who were somewhat   experienced, but not fully experienced in doing all the things   that we were doing. So we were figuring it out on the fly. ” ”   I bet if you went back and talked to a lot of those people, it   was probably one of the best  —   and hardest  —   but best learning   experience. If I went back to it now, at my experience level, I   would probably take a step back and take a better account of my   own skills of what I was really good at, and what I was not good   at. And I probably would have augmented the team slightly. Not   that I wouldn’t have brought the people in from Google, but I   would have had a couple other people around me who had more   experience, and I think that was a lesson, and something I’m   frankly taking into the Yahoo deal we’re working on now. ” ’    ’ ”   Shontell: You also had a really tough challenge of, this was an   uninspired company. It had gone through a couple of rough years,   maybe people didn’t even remember what a good year felt like. And   you had to come in and get people to buy into your vision and get   people excited again. So how do you go in and breathe inspiration   into a company that feels deflated? ” ’Armstrong: We did a   process, and I   traveled around the whole globe. There were about 10, 000 AOL   employees at the time, I saw about 9, 000 of them in person, and I   had three processes I was running: feedback from the entire   company and team, feedback from the management team, and then a   list I was keeping of things that I thought we should be doing. ’ ’   After the 100 days, we held a meeting at the Time Warner Center   and I put up three whiteboards. On one white board I wrote back   the results from the entire global team of what they thought we   should invest in. I put up a white board of what the management   team thought, and I put up a whiteboard of what I thought. I   flipped them all around at the same time. Each one had five   things on them. All of the white boards were identical, except   for one area on the white board that I had flipped around on my   personal side. ’ ”   So the whole company was already in alignment and I think that   got people excited. They weren’t told what the strategy was. They   got input, and everyone was on the same path in believing in it. ” ’    ’ ’Shontell: Down the road, Lowell McAdam, the CEO   of Verizon, and you have a conversation. Verizon ends up buying   AOL for $4. 4 billion. How did that conversation start, and how do   you decide, as the head of a huge company, that this was the   right move? ’ ’Armstrong: There were two things. Lowell is an   incredible CEO at Verizon, and somebody who really helped grow it   from a wire line to wireless  —   and Verizon to become one of the   most successful companies on the planet in doing so. ’ ’   When I sat down with Lowell, it was   . It was at the   Allen and Co. conference at what they call the ”duck pond,” where   people kind of have meetings after the conference is over. And   essentially I had a blank sheet of paper and Lowell asked me a   number of questions. Things like, where the industry is going,   what the structure would be, and what I thought was happening. I   drew him a diagram of what I thought was happening. We talked for   an hour or two about it, and then I didn’’t see him for months   afterward, and then he called. ’ ’   We had talked about [how] maybe there are operational things to   do together between the companies, and then he called and came   back in the fall. I met with him, and we had more and more   conversations. So over the course of time, there was a very   natural progression of where things were going. On the AOL front,   what was happening was everything was going mobile and everything   was going  . I used to carry around a   chart   from our    meetings that I started every meeting   with, that had the strategic priorities for the company. ’ ’   Mobile, video, and data were the first three things on that   chart, and I knew we needed to solve that issue. And Verizon, at   the time, wanted to solve their challenge of, how do they grow   services? So what naturally grew out of that conversation was a   combination of what Verizon needed to solve and what we needed to   solve. ’ ”   It didn’t start out as an M&A deal. It started as a big   operational deal, then it went to a joint venture, then it went   to a full company sale. But that’s how it started. And at the   same time, there were other companies kicking the tires on AOL,   and we were meeting with people, but the reality was Verizon, if   you think the future is mobile, then it’s going to be about video   and data. ” ”   It’s hard to argue Verizon wasn’t a great outcome for us as a   business. I’ve been there for two years now; it’s been a great   experience. ” ’Shontell: One thing that’’s happening in the   broader media landscape in digital is this term ”duopoly.” A lot   of media executives keep talking about it  —   it’’s the idea that   Google and Facebook. the duo, are taking a ginormous share of all     dollars. There was recent a study from IAB that showed   89% of the digital money was going to those two, and 11% was   going to everybody else, like AOL or Business Insider. How do you   look at this landscape and what AOL’’s role can be? Where is   everything going, in your opinion? ’ ’Armstrong: I think you have got to add Amazon to   that list. ’ ’Shontell: A ”triopoly.” ’ ’    ’ ”   Armstrong: People are saying duopoly, but they are missing one of   the legs of the stool. Amazon’s a real competitor in the space.   I’m probably a contrarian thinker on this. I like the fact that   Google and Facebook are getting more successful, and getting   bigger at what they’re doing. Frankly for us, we have a different   strategy. So the stronger they get at what they’re doing, the   harder it will be for them to adjust out of that big scale to   some of the things that we’re thinking about doing. ” ”   We’re a big publisher; we’re one of the largest publishers on the   web with our content, and we’re one of the larger ad players. So   it’s challenging, but you have a choice. I’ll give you the   choice. ” ”   You have a choice of being in an industry that’s growing at 15,   20, 30% globally. The internet is going to double in the next   five years in terms of people who are connecting to it, through   mobile. Only 15% of commerce by 2020 is going to be on the   internet. There’s huge opportunity in front of us. ” ”   You have a choice as a leader and as a company. You can go   compete in linear spaces or offline spaces that are really   challenged, or you can go into a space that’s growing and you   compete against   Olympic athletes. It’s tough to say   Google and Facebook aren’t executing at the top of their game.   Same thing with Amazon. But that sets an awesome bar for us as a   company to compete at that level. And it challenges us creatively   to try to get in that game. ” ”   From where we sit right now, I’d choose the tailwind industry   that’s growing, and I would choose to have      competitors, because it’s only going to raise our game. ” ”   With the industry, I have a whole viewpoint on industry   consolidation, but where the world’s going, we’re heading to a   place where there’s going to be giant scale we’ve never seen   before globally. There’s going to be a set of companies that have   the abilities to do that. And those companies are going to   really, really have the chances to build companies the size that   the world hasn’t seen before. ” ”Shontell: A final question: You’ve had to make a   lot of hard decisions as a leader of many companies at this   point. But you’re also personable and a likable guy. How do you   strike that balance between gaining respect from your employees   and making the hard choices, and being liked and respected at a   manager? ” ”Armstrong: There’s advice I got when I was   growing up  —   and I give it to my own kids  —   which is: To thine   own self be true. What you see is what you get. If you interact   with me, this is who I am, love me or hate me. And I think being   authentic is important. ” ’   The second thing is, the mentor crew I have. I have a bunch of   advice I always give to younger people, but one of them is to   build your personal entourage or board of directors. ’ ’   I have five or eight people outside the company I rely on. I have   one person, David Bell, who used to be the CEO of IPG. He’’s in   our office almost every day. I meet with him every Friday. And   every Friday he starts by telling me everything I’’m doing wrong.   For me, it’’s the most helpful meeting of the week because it   always resets me back to, ”OK, what am I supposed to be doing as   a leader? What’’s my job? What are those things? If you’’re   yourself, and you’’re authentic, and you’’re honest and direct. ’ ”   The other thing I’ve learned from David and people like [former   Starbucks CEO] Howard Schultz and [American Express CEO] Ken   Chenault and other people like that who have mentored me over   time is, just be direct with people. ” ’   I did an   meeting with AOL and Yahoo yesterday. I got   asked if there are going to be impacts from doing the deal. I   said, ”Yes, there are. That’’s what happens when two companies   come together.” ’ ”   I’m not going to beat around the bush. We’re going to try to do   the least amount we possibly can, but the bottom line is, that’s   part of what’s happening with the deal and I want to be direct   about it. So that directness, I think, helps a lot, and being   honest with yourself. ” ’Tim Armstrong is the CEO of AOL, and he will be. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’