’  ’ ”   As North Korea    to possessing a nuclear weapon that could hit the US   mainland, President Donald Trump and his top military   advisers must weigh whether or not they’d launch a preemptive   strike on North Korea and risk potentially millions of lives   in the process. ” ’   But even though a US military strike on North Korea would be   ”tragic on an unbelievable scale,”  that doesn’’t mean it’’s off the   table.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”If the national interests are high enough, and I think this is   the mistake that [North Korean leader] Kim Jong Un needs really   to think about, if you start pressing on an issue that has   to do with the survival of the United States against a nuclear   attack, the tragic becomes conceivable to stop it,” said   Locklear. ”It could be tragic.” ’ ”   Adm. Timothy J. Keating, another former commander of Pacific   Command, echoed Locklear’s statement. ” ’   ”There are a wide range of options” that are ”readily   available to the president and the secretary of defense resident   in the planning warrens at Pacific command,” Keating   said at the event. ’ ’   The discussion between two former top military commanders shows   what a difficult situation the US is in with regard to North   Korea. Pyongyang may wield up to 15 or so nuclear weapons, and   they  against US forces, South Koreans, and Japanese. ’ ”   Though the US has in place the world’s most advanced missile   defenses, there are no guarantees when it comes to stopping   ballistic missiles. Even a single nuclear warhead touching down   near Seoul could kill millions of innocent South Koreans in   an instant. ” ’  ’ ”   Additionally, South Korea’s  would likely not approve of a military strike. ” ’   But the US has its own citizens to worry about. Experts contacted   by Business Insider have spoken with near unanimity saying North   Korea wants a   intercontinental ballistic   missile to hold the US at risk.  ’ ’   What exactly the US military planners discuss behind closed doors   rightly remains classified, but if they calculate that a   relatively small tragedy today could avert a massive tragedy   tomorrow, then the US may see war with North Korea at some point. ’ ’As North Korea draws ever closer to possessing. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’