’  ’ ’   German chancellor Angela Merkel distanced herself from the US and   the UK during a campaign event in Munich on Sunday. ’ ’   ”The times in which [Germany] could fully rely on others are   partly over. I have experienced this in the last few days,”   Merkel  during the   event. ”We Europeans really have to take our destiny into   our own hands.” ’ ’   Though she did not mention them by name, Merkel was most likely   referring to the fractured relationship Germany now shares with   the US, as well as with the UK  . ’ ’   Merkel’’s comments came on the heels of what she called a   ”difficult” and ”unsatisfactory” G7 summit. The summit   included leaders of the US, UK, Germany, Japan, France, Canada,   and Italy, and Merkel characterized the discussions as ”six   against one.” ’ ’   Trump backed a pledge to fight protectionism at the end of the G7   summit on Saturday, but refused to endorse the Paris climate   pact, saying he needed more time to decide. ’ ’   However,  that   Trump had already made his decision. Trump reportedly told   multiple people, including Environmental Protection Agency   administrator Scott Pruitt, that he would be pulling out of the   deal, according to three sources with knowledge of the   conversations.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Despite his pledge to fight protectionism, Trump has favored   a more protectionist stance on trade, while other G7 members   favor free trade. ’ ’   In April, Trump was said to be considering an executive order   which would pull the US out of NAFTA. After a phone call with   Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican president Peña   Nieto, Trump    and said that he would be open to renegotiating the terms of   NAFTA.  ’ ’   Trump also ran on a platform of cracking down on immigration   into the US, both through legal and illegal channels, and   including refugee admission. ’ ”   Merkel, in a decision that was slammed by nationalists like   Trump and France’s Marine Le Pen, allowed hundreds of thousands   of refugees to enter Germany. Trudeau has also signaled that he   will open Canada’s borders to those fleeing war and   terrorism in their own countries.  ” ’   At a summit on Thursday, Trump criticized key NATO allies and   said they were not spending enough on defense. He also   warned of more attacks similar to the Manchester bombing   unless the alliance did more to stop militants. ’ ’  ’ ”   Merkel’s differences with Trump stand in stark contrast to the   close relationship she shared with former president Barack   Obama. ” ’   Merkel has repeatedly characterized Obama as a friend and a   strong German ally, and Obama  ”one   of my favorite partners throughout my presidency” during a visit   to Germany’’s Brandenburg Gate on Thursday. Obama and Merkel met   on the same day Merkel was set to meet with Trump during the NATO   summit in Brussels. ’ ’   During her campaign event on Sunday, Merkel emphasized a   close   alliance. She wished Macron success in his   presidency and said, ”Where Germany can help, Germany will help,   because Germany can only do well if Europe is doing well.” ’ ’   Her comments mark a potentially radical shift in     relations, as well as the American relationship with Western   Europe as a whole. ’ ’   But EU Council President Donald Tusk said on Sunday he was more   optimistic now than after the US election last November after EU   leaders held talks with Trump in Brussels. ’ ’   ”What I am absolutely sure after this meeting is that despite   some extraordinary . .. expressions, behaviors, etc, etc,” Tusk   said, ”our partners in the G7 are much more responsible than the   first impression after the election in the United States.” ’ ’German chancellor Angela Merkel distanced. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’