’  ’ ”   CNN’s Dana Bash pushed Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel on Sunday to   answer whether he wanted Hillary Clinton to run for   president in 2020, a query he repeatedly attempted to dodge. ” ’   In an interview on ”State of the Union,” the CNN   host repeatedly pressed the former adviser to President Bill   Clinton whether another Clinton bid would benefit the Democratic   party, citing her recent forceful  of President Donald Trump’’s administration. ’ ’   ”If Hillary Clinton is up for another presidential run, would   that be a good thing for your party?” Bash asked. ’ ’   ”Well look, you’’re asking something that we’’re not even through   the   election,” Emanuel said. ”She hasn’’t even declared.” ’ ’   ”I know, but I asked the question,” Bash replied. ”Do you think   she should?” ’ ’   He added: ”I love you. It’’s not a good question.” ’ ’   Emanuel emphasized that there was plenty of time until the next   election in which it would become obvious whether she would be a   good candidate. ’ ’   ”I happen to love Hillary, and I think she’’s full of energy,”   Emanuel said. ”I happen to think there’’s a lot of time between   now and the presidential election. She has to decide whether   that’’s in her heart.” ’ ’   ”Hillary has a lot of offer. The core question is not whether I   think she would be a good candidate. It’’s whether she wants to   run. Because at the end of the day, the public is pretty   smart. And if it’’s only going through the motions, they’’ll pick   that up.” ’ ’   The longtime Democrat and chief of staff under President Barack   Obama has a long, somewhat mixed history with the Clintons. ’ ”   As first lady, Hillary Clinton sought to sideline Emanuel. In the   2016 Democratic primary, she garnered his support early on, but   distanced herself from him when Sen. Bernie Sanders  to make the Illinois primary a referendum on   Emanuel’s criminal justice record and handling of a controversial   shooting of a    by the police. ” ”   Though Clinton has  a third presidential bid, that hasn’t stopped    and some  from stoking the idea that   she may run again. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tRahm Emanuel: ”We have a lot of time between now and the presidential election of 2020. Hillary has a lot to offer”  ’ ”CNN’s Dana Bash pushed Chicago Mayor Rahm. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’