’  ’ ’   The Texas Legislature erupted in chaos on Monday, the last day of   the legislative session, amid large protests in the State Capitol   building, and threats between lawmakers, . ’ ’   Hundreds of protesters dressed in red   gathered in the   Texas House gallery carrying banners and signs and chanting in   opposition to Senate Bill 4, the   ”sanctuary cities” ban   signed into law earlier this month by Governor Greg Abbot.  ’ ’   State Rep. Matt Rinaldi from Irving, Texas said that he called   Immigration and Customs Enforcement on the protesters, some of   whom, he says, were carrying signs that read ”I am illegal and   here to stay.” ’ ’   The protests became so loud that the House had to take a break   from activities and the Department of Public Safety decided to   clear the protesters from the gallery. During the break, some   Democratic lawmakers looked up to the protesters and clapped,   Texas House Democrats told The Texas Tribune.  ’ ’ ’ ’Loud voices in the gallery. .Open mouths on the floor..   ’ ’    An altercation between Rinaldi and several House Democrats,   many of whom were Hispanic, took place shortly after. The   lawmakers told the Tribune that Rinaldi came up to them   repeatedly and said he had called ICE ”to have all these people   deported” and yelled ”F —  k them” and ”F —  k you.” ’ ’   Rinaldi said that he was angry because the lawmakers were   ”bragging” about the protesters breaking House rules,   which  ’ ’   “We jawed back and forth and one of them physically assaulted me   and another threatened my life, actually,” Rinaldi told the   Tribune. In a statement, Rinaldi claimed that state Rep. Poncho   Nevàrez of Eagle Pass threatened his life and  ”get [him] on the way to [his] car.” ’ ”   Here’s video of the altercation: ” ’ ’ ’ICYMI: Shoving on the floor of the Texas House today after Rep. Matt Rinaldi,   Branch, said he called ICE on protesters. (via KVUE) ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tA statement regarding today.  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’He   racially profiled every single person that was in the gallery   today. He created the scenario that so many of us fear.” ’ ’   Authorities soon broke up the protest in the gallery, with   protesters continuing outside the state capitol building. ’ ’The Texas Legislature erupted in chaos on. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’