’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   President Donald Trump has been handing out his   cellphone number to world leaders and urging them to call him   directly, an unusual invitation that breaks diplomatic protocol   and is raising concerns about the security and secrecy of the   U. S. commander in chief’s communications. ” ’   Trump has urged leaders of Canada and Mexico to reach him on his   cellphone, according to former and current U. S. officials with   direct knowledge of the practice. Of the two, only Canadian Prime   Minister Justin Trudeau has taken advantage of the offer so far,   the officials said. ’ ”   Trump also exchanged numbers with French President Emmanuel   Macron when the two spoke immediately following Macron’s victory   earlier this month, according to a French official, who would not   comment on whether Macron intended to use the line. ” ”   All the officials demanded anonymity because they were not   authorized to reveal the conversations. Neither the White House   nor Trudeau’s office responded to requests for comment. ” ’   The notion of world leaders calling each other up via cellphone   may seem unremarkable in the modern, mobile world. But in the   diplomatic arena, where    calls are highly   orchestrated affairs, it is another notable breach of protocol   for a president who has expressed distrust of official channels.   The formalities and discipline of diplomacy have been a rough fit   for Trump  —   who, before taking office, was long easily accessible   by cellphone and viewed himself as freewheeling, impulsive   dealmaker. ’ ’’ ’   Presidents generally place calls on one of several secure phone   lines, including those in the White House Situation Room, the   Oval Office or the presidential limousine. Even if Trump uses his     cellphone, his calls are vulnerable to   eavesdropping, particularly from foreign governments, national   security experts say. ’ ’   ”If you are speaking on an open line, then it’’s an open line,   meaning those who have the ability to monitor those conversations   are doing so,” said Derek Chollet, a former Pentagon adviser and   National Security Council official now at the German Marshall   Fund of the United States. ’ ’   A president ”doesn’’t carry with him a secure phone,” Chollet   said. ”If someone is trying to spy on you, then everything you’’re   saying, you have to presume that others are listening to it.” ’ ”   The caution is warranted even when dealing with allies. As German   Chancellor Angela Merkel’s learned in 2013, when a dump of   American secrets leaked by Edward Snowden revealed the U. S. was   monitoring her cellphone, good relations don’t prevent some   spycraft between friends. ” ’   ”If you are Macron or the leader of any country and you get the   cellphone number of the president of the United States, it’’s   reasonable to assume that they’’d hand it right over to their   intel service,” said Ashley Deeks, a law professor at the   University of Virginia who formerly served as the assistant legal   adviser for   affairs in the U. S. State   Department. ’ ”   The practice opens Trump up to charges of hypocrisy. Throughout   last year’s presidential campaign, he lambasted Democratic rival   Hillary Clinton for using a private email server while she was   secretary of state, insisting she should not be given access to   classified information because she would leave it vulnerable to   foreign foes. ” ”   Presidents’ phone calls with world leaders often involve   considerable advance planning. State Department and National   Security Council officials typically prepare scripted talking   points and background on the leader on the other end of the line.   Often an informal transcript of the call is made and circulated   among a select group  —   sometimes a small clutch of aides,   sometimes a broader group of foreign policy officials. Those   records are preserved and archived. ” ’   The White House did not respond to questions on whether the   president is keeping records of any   calls with world   leaders. ’ ”   Trump’s White House is already facing scrutiny for apparent   efforts to work outside usual diplomatic channels. ” ”   The administration has been fending off questions about a senior   aide’s attempt to set up a secret back channel of communication   with Moscow in the weeks before Trump was took office. White   House adviser Jared Kushner, Trump’s    met in December   with Russia’s ambassador to the U. S. and discussed whether a   secret line of communication could be used to facilitate   sensitive policy discussions about the conflict in Syria,   according to a person familiar with the talks. The person   demanded anonymity because the person was not authorized to   discuss the sensitive conversation by name. ” ’   The White House has said such back channel communications are   useful and discreet. ’ ’   Trump has struggled more than most recent presidents to keep his   conversations with world leaders private. His remarks to   Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, Mexican President   Enrique Pena Nieto and Russian diplomats have all leaked,   presumably after notes of the conversations were circulated by   national security officials. ’ ’   It was unclear whether an impromptu, informal call with a foreign   leader would be logged and archived. The Presidential Records Act   of 1981, passed in response to the Watergate scandal, requires   that the president and his staff preserve all records related to   the office. In 2014, the act was amended to include personal   emails. ’ ’   But the law contains ”blind spots”  —   namely,   for   direct cellphone communications, said Jonathan Turley, a   professor at George Washington University Law School, who   specializes in public interest and national security law. ’ ”   Under Barack Obama, the first   president, worries   about cyber intrusions  —   particularly by foreign governments  —     pulled the president’s devices deep into the security bubble.   Many of the functions on Obama’s BlackBerry were blocked, and a   very small handful of people had his phone number or email   address, according to former aides. ” ’   ”Government sometimes looks like a big bureaucracy that has   stupid rules, but a lot of these things are in place for very   good reasons and they’’ve been around for a while and determine   the most effective way to do business in the foreign policy   sphere,” said Deeks. ”Sometimes it takes presidents longer to   figure that out.” ’ ’WASHINGTON (AP)  —   President Donald Trump. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’