’  ’ ’   President Trump has made no secret of his disdain for the news   media, which he famously derided as the  ’ ”   But that hasn’t prevented the press from giving readers an inside   view of what’s happening within the Trump White House, with a   daily avalanche of scoops and breaking news about the   administration. ” ”   Dean Baquet, executive editor of The New York Times (one of the   news outlets that Trump singled out for his fury) says that’s no   accident. ” ’   Speaking at the Code conference in Los Angeles on Tuesday night,   Baquet said the Trump administration has activated a twin engine   of leaks: people in the established Washington and people inside   the White House itself. ’ ’   ”This administration is doing stuff that has upset the permanent   Washington,” he explained, referring to the people who work in   various government agencies. As those people get upset about what   the administration is doing, or not doing, they talk. ’ ’’ ”   But it’s not just that. ” ’   ”It’s a White House of disarray. There are two or three factions   fighting for an ear of a President who probably didn’t have fully   formed views before he took office,” he says. ’ ’   It’’s true that there’’s a Bannon ”faction” and a Jared Kushner   ”faction,” he said. ”We’re watching a Washington story unlike any   other. I think we’re seeing a drama, a fight in the White House   and a government investigation that’s unprecedented.” ’ ’   To cover this White House, the New York Times doubled the number   of people covering it to 6 people. ’ ”   They also have no qualms about covering President Trump’s Twitter   feed as news. ” ’   ”We have to cover it. He’s president of the US, even if it’’s late   night thoughts or early morning thoughts, they are his thoughts,”   he said. ’ ’   However, he added, they always fact check them as part of   covering those tweets. ”We truth squad all of them as soon as   they come up. We report it and tell the public the truth of every   tweet. We have to truth test them,” he said. ’ ’President Trump has made no secret of his. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’