’  ’ ”   The House Intelligence Committee issued seven subpoenas Wednesday   as part of its investigation into Russian interference in the   2016 election, including subpoenas to former National Security   Adviser Michael Flynn and President Donald Trump’s personal   lawyer, Michael Cohen. ” ’   ”As part of our ongoing investigation into Russian active   measures during the 2016 campaign, today we approved subpoenas   for several individuals for testimony, personal documents and   business records,” said Reps. Mike Conaway and Adam Schiff, the   top Republican and Democrat involved in the investigation. ’ ’   ”We hope and expect that anyone called to testify or provide   documents will comply with that request, so that we may gain all   the information within the scope of our investigation. We will   continue to pursue this investigation wherever the facts may   lead,” they said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Flynn was forced to resign when it was reported in February that   he had spoken to the Russian ambassador about US sanctions and   then misled Vice President Mike Pence about his contacts. Flynn   reportedly plans to invoke  in response to a separate subpoena issued by the   Senate Intelligence Committee. Cohen’s subpoena comes after he   declined a request to provide information and documents related   to his contacts with Russian officials. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The other three subpoenas relate to questions around why Obama   administration officials ”unmasked” and distributed the names of   Trump associates in classified intelligence reports. ’ ’   The Journal reported that those subpoenas were issued to the CIA,   FBI, and NSA and are seeking information related to unmasking   requests made by former National Security Adviser Susan Rice,   former CIA director John Brennan, and former UN ambassador   Samantha Power. ’ ’   Unmasking requests are not uncommon, said Charles Price, a former   FBI agent who worked at the bureau for nearly three decades.   ”They’’re really not that big a deal.” ’ ’   ”The identities of US persons may be released under two   circumstances: 1) the identity is needed to make sense of the   intercept; 2) if a crime is involved in the conversation,” Robert   Deitz, a former senior counselor to the CIA director and former   general counsel at the National Security Agency,  in an earlier interview. ’ ’  ’ ’   In April, it emerged that Rice  of Trump officials whose names were incidentally   collected during routine   operations. ’ ”   After news of Rice’s request broke, she denied accusations that   she had leaked the names of unmasked Trump officials to media   outlets. ” ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’The House Intelligence Committee issued seven. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’