’  ’ ’   When single mother Twanda Marshinda Brown fell behind paying a   $100 installment of a traffic violation, she had to spend 57 days   in a South Carolina jail. Because she could not come in for work   at a   facility, Brown also lost the job that   supported her seven kids. ’ ’   Along with four other people who spent time in jail for not being   able to pay fees for minor violations, Brown is a plaintiff in a     lawsuit against Lexington County, South Carolina. ’ ”   With the help of the American Civil Liberties Union’s South   Carolina branch, the five plaintiffs are challenging the county’s   practice of arresting and jailing people who do not have the   money to pay their fines. ” ’   “Arresting and jailing people who can’t pay makes people who are   living on the margins even more marginalized,” Nusrat Choudhury,   the attorney leading the case, told Business Insider. She added   that even though the practice occurs throughout the country,   close to 1, 000 people have been incarcerated in Lexington in the   past year. ’ ’   One time, Choudhury came across a case in which a person was   arrested for not being able to pay only a $232 bill. ’ ’’ ’   ”I got dressed and sent my    to take the trash out,”   Brown, who made five payments of a $2, 400 sentence and then   started missing them because her son needed surgery for his jaw,   said in  of the case. ”I didn’t want him to see me in   handcuffs and taken to jail.” ’ ”   Over her 57 days in jail, Brown turned 40 and missed her cousin’s   death, her son’s 17th birthday and the first birthday of her   granddaughter. But most of all, she worried that her      son would be taken away by Social Services while she behind bars. ” ’   ”It made me feel sick to think that I could lose him while I was   in jail because I could not afford to pay traffic fines,” Brown   said. ’ ”   When someone in Lexington County is unable to pay a city fine,   they have to make monthly payments or risk going to jail  —   in   Brown’s case, $100 a month. Even though such practices can   continue the cycle of poverty, many counties continue to rely on     arrests in order to generate revenue through court   fees, according to Choudhury. ” ’   “The revenue stream continues even though the percentage of   people living in poverty is increasing,” Choudhury said, adding   that people are strapped with court fees even after their fine is   waived on account of time served. In the lawsuit, the ACLU states   that Lexington County generated more than $1. 4 million from   traffic and criminal fines between 2015 and 2016. ’ ’   In 1983, the Supreme Court  that it was illegal for courts to send people to jail   because they are unable to pay their fees. That said, different   interpretations of what it means to ”willfully refuse” to pay a   fine have allowed individual courts to bypass the ruling for more   than 30 years. ’ ”   As South Carolina’s ACLU squares off to challenge the practice in   Lexington, courts in states such as     and  have already determined that the practice was   illegal. ” ’   “When they come out, they’re even more financially vulnerable   than they were before they went in,” said Choudhury. ’ ’When single mother Twanda Marshinda Brown fell. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’