”As Uber has faced a series of crises, it’s been steadily losing top executives. ” ’Since February, the   company has lost its president and its heads of communications, finance, product, and its   car division. In all, nine of its most senior executives have headed out the door  —   all for different reasons.’ ”As Uber  here’s who has left the company and who (if anyone) has stepped in to fill their roles:” ’Departure: March 19’ ’Replacement: None. Uber is searching for a COO instead.’ ”When the company announced Jones’ hire in August 2016, Kalanick lauded him for his experience as a Target’s chief marketing officer and was excited about what he would bring to the   giant. ” ’’ ’ ’ ’Departure: ’ ’Replacement: ’ ”Whetstone joined Uber in 2015 from Google. As soon as she started, she revamped Uber’s communications strategy and attempted to rein in Uber’s   cities, which had caused more than a few PR problems.” ’But Whetstone  in April amid a torrent of negative headlines for the company. ”’ ’Departure: July (announced on )’ ’Replacement: Uber is  with public company experience. Its temporary finance chief is P’ ”Gupta had run Uber’s finances since the departure of its last CFO in 2015, but the company ” ’Departure: ’ ’Replacement: Eric Meyhofer’ ’Uber fired Levandowski, the former head of its    program, over his refusal to cooperate in its legal battle with Waymo. ’ ’’ ’Departure: ’ ’Replacement: None ’ ”Google’s former search chief came back out of retirement in January 2017 to join Uber as its new senior vice president of engineering. In the role, Singhal was in charge of overseeing engineering on Uber’s marketplace and maps teams  —   two key departments that touch the core of Uber’s business  —   and advising Uber’s CEO, Travis Kalanick. However, Uber  a month after he joined the company after published reports disclosed that ” ’Departure: ’ ’Replacement: Daniel Graf, VP of Product’ ’Baker  under mysterious circumstances in March after three years at the company. He had joined Uber from Facebook where he was leading international growth. At Uber, Baker oversaw the engineers, product managers, and marketing teams that were trying to attract both new riders and drivers to the platform. ’ ’Departure: ’ ’Replacement: Manik Gupta’ ’McClendon joined Uber in 2015 from Google, where he was known as the ”maps guy,” because he had been an early leader in the creation of Google Maps and Google Earth. After initially overseeing Uber’’s Advanced Technologies Center, McClendon returned to his specialty, becoming the company’’s VP of Maps and Business Platform.’ ’He left the company to return to his hometown of Lawrence, Kansas to explore politics. ’ ’Departure: ’ ”Replacement: Zoubin Ghahramani, Uber’s Chief Scientist” ’’ ’Departure: April 17’ ’Replacement: None’ ’Marakby joined Uber in April 2016 and helped launch its   car effort. Although his departure a year later came amid the lawsuit with Waymo over autonomous car technology, Uber says it was unrelated to the legal dispute.’ ” He’s now back at Ford .” ”Josh Mohrer left Uber in May after five years at the   company. He built Uber’s operations in New York City  —   often in a  way  —   but was critical to expanding the company’s empire.” ’Raffi Krikorian  in February to move with his family back to California. He joined the company in March 2015 and led its team of more than 50   car engineers in Pittsburgh as the senior director of engineering for its Advanced Technologies Group. ’ ’Brian Tolkin  after building ’ ”Charlie Miller  to work on the Chinese company’s autonomous vehicles. After making a name for himself by hacking a Jeep Cherokee and stopping it remotely, the security engineer was a marquee hire for Uber when he joined the company in 2015.” ”As Uber has faced a series of crises, it’s been. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’