’  ’ ’   Elon Musk is being a hypocrite. ’ ”   On Thursday, after President Donald Trump said he would withdraw   the US from the Paris Agreement on climate change, Tesla’s CEO    the two White House advisory   councils he sits on. ” ’   ”Climate change is real,” Musk said. ”Leaving Paris is not good   for America or the world.” ’ ’   But Trump had promised before he was elected to   —   and Musk knew that when he   joined the councils. ’ ”   Musk might have hoped he could change Trump’s view  —   and that he   and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson could sway Trump to . ” ”   Musk’s agenda was transparent: Tesla’s electric vehicles don’t   produce carbon, and anything that encourages people to turn to   renewable energy would benefit the company, which is also making   roof shingles that harness solar energy and battery packs that   store it all. ” ’   And as my colleague  Musk most likely felt that his   role as a creator of manufacturing jobs in the US would have   given him some sway over Trump. ’ ’   It turns out that at least on the issue of the Paris Agreement,   Trump was being serious about his intentions. And a carbon tax   certainly looks unlikely. ’ ”   The thing is that Trump doesn’t forgive  —   he holds grudges. That   could spell bad news for Musk and Tesla. ” ’   Tesla receives a boatload of government money, which could   include subsidies, grants, and tax credits to customers who buy   its electric cars. According to a Los Angeles Times story from   May 2015, Musk’’s companies  —   Tesla, SolarCity, and SpaceX  —      in ”government support,” and   while a good portion of that was from states, there’’s no doubt   the company benefits from federal handouts, too. ’ ’   ”Since 2006, SolarCity has installed systems for 217, 595   customers, according to a corporate filing,” the Times report   said. ”If each paid the current average price for a residential   system  —   about $23, 000, according to the Union of Concerned   Scientists  —   the cost to the government would total about $1. 5   billion, which would include the Treasury grants paid to   SolarCity.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Musk has downplayed this issue before. Seeking Alpha highlighted   Musk’s comments during the company’s most recent quarterly   conference call  and credits helped the competition more   than they helped Tesla: ” ”   But Tesla  in its most recent   quarter, and while that was an improvement from the nearly $1   billion cash burn in the previous quarter, it was still the     total in the company’s history. The loss of tax   breaks and subsidies for   companies get could   cause this hole to get deeper  —   fast. ” ’   ”He definitely goes where there is government money,” Dan Dolev,   an analyst at Jefferies Equity Research, wrote in a research note   quoted by The Times. ”That’’s a great strategy, but the government   will cut you off one day.” ’ ”   I emailed Tesla about all this, and it sent me Musk’s statement   from February about why he joined Trump’s economic advisory   council: ” ”   So sure, Musk feels like it is not worth his time to even do that   anymore. But that choice could be Tesla’s loss. ” ’Elon Musk is being a hypocrite. On Thursday. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’