’’ ’A number of states have proposed bills that take on the rising cost of drug pricing. And, unlike in the past, many are on track to becoming law.’ ’The legislation at the state level, along with  and  government actions, are latest attempts to change the way we spend money on prescription drugs.’ ”It’s gotten to the point where Wall Street is starting to take notice.” ’”These laws are now at the ’’annoyance’’ level, rather than material commercial impact but presumably once a coalition gels at state level and reaps political rewards, more is possible,” Bernstein analyst Ronny Gal wrote.’ ’Here are the states that have either passed bills, or are in the process of passing legislation that could increase transparency around drug prices. ’ ’In May, Maryland passed a drug pricing law that aims to curb generic drug price hikes by allowing Medicaid to alert the attorney general if drugmakers raise the price of a drug by 50% or more in a year, which could result in a fine. ’ ”Maryland Governor Larry Hogan didn’t veto the bill,  either.” ’A  wants to pester drug companies for more information regarding drug price hikes, specifically when Medicaid spending rises. According to Gal’’s note, it ”smartly just ’’hassles’’ drug companies for raising prices. ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”A ballot measure in Ohio, titled the Ohio Drug Price Relief Act, aims to cap the amount the state’s agencies pay for prescription drugs at the rate that the Department of Veteran Affairs pays.” ”It’s similar to California Prop 61, the. Currently, the VA gets a discount of about 24% off traditional drug prices, and the agency can negotiate further discounts on top of that.” ”The ballot measure will be part of Ohio’s November election.” ”California is taking a few different approaches to take on high drug prices. One, which limits drug companies’ ability to  passed the state senate in May. It’s now before the Assembly.” ”There are    that have all passed on to the second house, including SB 17 which is . The bill would require companies to disclose more information that the executives argue could undercut competition, including a   notice of increases to a drug’s price (similar to Nevada’s bill).” ’In 2016, Vermont passed a bill that required drugmakers to provide justification for drug price hikes. In a report, state officials also had to report 15 drugs that had price increases of 15% in the past year, or 50% over the last five years.’ ”In response to the increases, the state can . Beyond that, the state doesn’t have the power to cap or reduce the drugs’ prices.” ’ ’ ’A number of states have proposed bills that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’