’  ’ ’   Endless lines, crowded airports, disappearing amenities, and   shrinking legroom have become the norm for most flyers around the   country. ’ ’   In other words, flying in America is terrible. ’ ’   This has long been the pervasive narrative surrounding the US   airline industry. ’ ’   And a recent series of embarrassing   incidents   have managed to turn this   disdain into unadulterated   anger towards the airlines. ’ ’   However, the question must be asked. Is it really that bad? ’ ’   And if it is, how did we get there and how do we make things   better? ’ ’   First off, life for those flying at the front of the cabin,   especially those on international and   routes,   are actually better than ever. New premium cabin products such as   United Polaris, Delta One, and JetBlue Mint are nothing short of    . ’ ’  ’ ’   New luxury airport lounges are simply palatial. On the aircraft,   seats convert into   beds. Thousands of movies, TVs shows,   and songs are available through massive private entertainment   screens. Lavish   meals come from menus created   by gourmet chefs paired with wines personally selected by   master sommeliers.  ’ ”   Unfortunately, this not the experience for the vast majority of   us. That’s because we fly in economy. ” ’   These days the coach experience is best described as ”unbundled”.   Want to check your bags? There’’s a fee for that. Want to pick   your seat? There’’s a fee for that. Want more legroom? There’’s a   fee for that as well. And once you are on board and want a hot   meal? There’’s a flight attendant with a mobile device waiting to   swipe your credit card.  ’ ”   While there are a significant number of passengers who prefer   this a la carte flying experience, many don’t. But the reality is   that the unbundling of the economy class products reflects an   unpleasant, but shockingly reasonable truth in the airline   industry. ” ”   Economy class passengers simply don’t bring in enough dough to   warrant a more plush experience. ” ”   According to Airways senior business analyst, Vinay Bhaskara,   value conscious economy travelers may be the airline industry’s   largest customer base but individually are not all that   profitable. ” ’   In fact, American and United Airlines have both said in the past   that roughly  who travel on   a repeated basis. These passengers tend to travel in business   class and pay full price. ’ ’   As a result, it makes perfect business sense for airlines to   funnel their cash towards the more profitable travelers. ’ ’  ’ ’   Historically, there is actually little to no incentive for   airlines to offer a more roomy and plush experience in   economy. ’ ’   ”The reality is that people have proven to the US airline   industry time and time again that, at volume, they prefer the   lower advertised price regardless of how many   they have   to pay for,” Bhaskara said in an interview with Business Insider. ’ ’   For instance, before American Airlines unbundled its economy   product, it struggled to compete against Spirit Airlines for   value travelers. ’ ’   ”The   carrier always won because people either don’’t care   or aren’’t sophisticated enough to differentiate between a bundled   and unbundled fare,” Bhaskara added. ’ ”   In fact, time and time again, airlines’ attempts offer a more   comfortable and friendly product have failed to pay off. Bhaskara   cites American’s decision in 2000 to add   inches of legroom to   all of its economy class seats and Virgin America’s struggle for   profitability while offering   service as examples. ” ’   The understand why the US airline industry is the way it is now,   you have look back to October 24, 1978. On that date, President   Jimmy Carter signed the Airline Deregulation Act  —   stripping   power from the government agency that strictly controlled the   industry. ’ ’   ”Deregulation is completely responsible for the state of the US   airlines industry,” Atmosphere Research Group travel analyst   Henry Harteveldt told Business Insider.  ’ ’   Prior to deregulation, the US government was the kingmaker in the   airline industry  —   dictating which routes an airline could fly,   which airports an airline could dominate, and how much they could   charge. ’ ’  ’ ’   In addition, the US government put airlines in a position to   succeed by limiting direct route competition and ensuring prices   remain high, Harteveldt said.  ’ ’   Without the need to compete on price, the airlines competed on   experience and service. Both Harteveldt and Bhaskara admit flying   during the   days was much more posh and   exclusive. ’ ”   However, post deregulation, many of America’s airlines struggled   to survive  —   failing to balance their old habits with the reality   of modern competition. Of the major US airlines in operation   prior to deregulation, only Southwest and Alaska Airlines fly on   today without having declared bankruptcy. ” ”   In the years, since the last financial crisis, US airlines seem   to have to have figured out the path to financial stability. And   that’s where the unbundling of products, push towards higher unit   revenue, and leaner operations come into play. ” ”   With that said, deregulation isn’t without its merits. According   Harteveldt, had the airline industry not been deregulated, the   flying experience today would probably be much better in terms of   legroom in economy and banquet dinners in first class. However,   that experience would be significantly more expensive, he   cautioned. ” ’   According to Bhaskara, airfares today are roughly 40% cheaper   than it was in the 1970s  —   effectively democratizing air travel.   In addition, deregulation also reduced the barriers to   competition, airlines expanded their operations  —   offering more   flights to more destinations. ’ ’   Whether you think things are good or bad, there should be   agreement that the flying experience can be better. For one   thing, the metrics by which airlines grade itself and its   executives should change. ’ ’   ”In the airline industry executives care about how low their   costs are, how high their yields are, how many aircraft they   have, and how many cities they serve,” Harteveldt said. ”There’’s   a divorce between the customer and the airline because there are   no   metrics by which airline executives are graded   whether it’’s by their board or by Wall Street.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Instead of trying to be the biggest, Harteveldt believes airlines   should say, ”we don’’t care what size we are an airline as along   as we are generating the most profit per passengers or have the   most customer loyalty or highest marks for customer   satisfaction.” ’ ’   It would certainly be an outside of the box move for airlines to   move beyond their traditional metrics for success. However,   Harteveldt and Bhaskara point to Southwest, JetBlue, and Delta as   airlines that have moved towards distinguishing itself from   rivals by offering superior service and performance. ’ ”   At the end of the day, our experience on board America’s airlines   is as much dictated by their business strategy as it is our   consumer choice. Ultimately, the control is in the hand of the   flying public. If there’s one thing the airline industry has   learned over the years, it’s that there is no instrument of   change more powerful than a consumer’s pocketbook.  ” ’Endless lines, crowded airports, disappearing. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’