’  ’ ”     cars might make your future commute a lot more   pleasant, but they won’t eliminate traffic. ” ’   Execs like Google cofounder    have touted traffic reduction as one of the many   benefits of having   cars on the road. The idea   is that autonomous cars will eliminate accidents caused by human   error, a major contributor to traffic. ’ ”   But experts say the vehicles’ impact on traffic will either be   minimal or negative. ” ”   Lew Fulton, a   at UC Davis’ Institute of   Transportation Studies (ITP) told Business Insider that   autonomous vehicles won’t fix congestion woes unless a pricing   system is put in place that discourages   vehicles. ” ’   ”We are especially concerned about   vehicles that   can happen with automated vehicles,” Fulton said.   ”That scenario is especially plausible with private ownership of   those vehicles and no limits to what we can do with them.” ’ ’   For example,  are   interested in programming autonomous cars to run errands or   pick up packages, but these efforts could increase traffic by   multiplying the number of   cars, or ”zombie cars,”   on the road, Fulton said. ’ ’   Massachusetts lawmakers have already  to prevent zombie cars. The bill calls   for a   fee of at least $0. 025. ’ ’   Congestion could also worsen as companies like Lucid Motors   explore designing   vehicles around comfort,   like installing reclining seats. ’ ’   Consumers may opt to live farther outside of cities if they   can commute in vehicles that allow them to sleep and relax. But   that sprawl increases the number of people traveling in and   out of cities during rush hour, Fulton said. ’ ’  ’ ’     cars can still contribute to congestion even if   they operate as part of a   network, like Uber. ’ ’   Without the cost of a driver, Fulton said he worries     Ubers or Lyfts will become so cheap there will be no financial   incentive to opt for   services like UberPOOL. ’ ’   ”I think it’’s going to take some kind of pricing system that   discourages   vehicles and also makes penalties for     vehicles,” he said. ’ ”   Fulton isn’t alone in this line of thinking. ” ’   Matthew Turner, an economist at Brown University, has studied   road congestion and   a 2011 paper titled ”The   Fundamental Law of Road Congestion.” Turner found that vehicle   pricing structures have had the biggest effect on reducing travel   time, more so than increasing public transit access. ’ ’   ”Maybe autonomous cars will be different from other capacity   expansions, but of the things we have observed so far, the only   thing that really drives down travel times is pricing,” Turner   told the . ’ ’   Some cities have already mobilized to discourage people from   taking cars alone. States like  have installed   toll lanes that     must pay a fee to use. That fee increases   during rush hour. ’ ’   ”We have to figure out systems that promote pairing,” Fulton   said. ”It really is a silver bullet if we can do it.” ’ ’  cars might make your future. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’