’  ’ ”   Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt was   grilled repeatedly on Sunday by television anchors hoping to get   more clarity on President Donald Trump’s decision to leave the   Paris Climate Accords this week. ” ’   Political talk show hosts confronted Pruitt about his assertion   that the deal, which 156 nations signed in order to curb   emissions that fuel climate change, would be damaging to the   American economy. ’ ’   Fox News Sunday host Chris Wallace aggressively pushed back   against the Trump administration’’s assertion that China and India   were not seriously committed to reducing emissions, saying ”the   reality is different from what the president said.” ’ ’   ”Mr. Pruitt, aren’’t you focusing on the wrong thing?” Wallace   asked, pointing out that the solar industry employed twice as   many people as the coal industry, one of the beneficiaries of   Trump’’s decision. ’ ’   ”Aren’’t you and the president protecting the horse and buggy   business just as cars go online?” ’ ’   Pruitt dismissed the question, saying the US needs coal and solid   hydrocarbons to address high demand for electricity as well as   ”attacks on our grid, attacks on our infrastructure.” ’ ’   ”If we have peak demand needs you want a diversity of fuels that   generate electricity,” Pruitt said. ’ ’   Wallace also noted that despite Trump’’s promise that his decision   would benefit the residents of ”Pittsburgh, not Paris,” the   Pennsylvania city’’s mayor committed to staying in the climate   agreement. ’ ’   ”The mayor of Pittsburgh said ’’We’’re not a steel town anymore,   we’’re a green town,’’” Wallace said. ”And in fact he rejected what   the president said.” ’ ’   ”This president has said we need an all of the above approach,”   Pruitt said. ”We should not penalize sectors of our economy,   Chris. Government regulations shouldn’’t be used to pick winners   and losers.” ’ ’   The hosts also pushed Pruitt to support his claim that the Paris   agreement would not ultimately reduce the effects of climate   change. ’ ’   Multiple anchors, including Wallace and ABC’’s George   Stephanopoulos, pointed out that the Trump team  data from a Massachusetts Institute of   Technology study. Pruitt said the scientists have ”short   memories,” and attempted to discredit the MIT author’’s comments. ’ ’   ”It’’s very fishy to me that MIT updated their results after we   started citing it,” Pruitt told Wallace. ’ ’   Pruitt refused to answer again whether Trump still believed that   climate change is a hoax. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Meet The Press” host Chuck Todd pressed Pruitt on whether    that carbon dioxide is not the primary   driver of climate change, a belief directly   with the   overwhelming scientific consensus. ’ ’   ”You don’’t believe that CO2 is the primary cause?” Todd asked. ’ ’   ”No, I didn’’t say that. I said it’’s a cause,” Pruitt replied. ’ ’   ”Primary?” Todd asked. ’ ’   ”It’’s a cause of many,” Pruitt said. ”It’’s a cause like methane,   and water vapor, and the rest.” ’ ’   Wallace and Stephanopoulos each pressed the administrator four   times on their respective shows about whether Trump believed in   climate change. ’ ’   ”Doesn’’t it matter whether or not the president believes there is     climate change, whether he believes it’’s a hoax?”   Stephanopoulos said. ”That is the predicate for the entire   decision.” ’ ’   ”The focus is on the efficacy, the merits of the deal, and the   demerits of the deal,” Pruitt said, dodging the question by   pointing out that the US has reduced carbon emissions   substantially in the past two decades. ’ ’   ”I don’’t want to beat a dead horse here, but you’’re not going to   tell me whether or not the president believes climate change is a   hoax?” Wallace asked on his show. ’ ’   ”The President has indicated that climate changes,” Pruitt said.   ”It’’s always changing. I’’ve indicated the same.” ’ ’   One of the primary advocates for leaving the agreement, Pruitt   has been its primary defender, fielding similar questions at a   White House press briefing on Thursday. The Washington Post    that he has become one of the most influential policy   advisers in the Trump administration, rolling back a number of   rules regarding emissions, water pollution, and pesticides. ’ ”   Green activists have pushed back against Pruitt’s claim that many   top environmental groups do not support the Paris climate   agreement. ” ’   “This Administration’s increasingly defensive attempts to spin   their disastrous decision to leave the Paris Agreement knows no   bounds, no shame, and no respect for reality,” Sierra Club   Executive Director Michael Brune said in a statement Sunday.   ”Contrary to Pruitt’’s distortions, the Sierra Club said then and   we believe now that the Paris Climate Agreement marks a historic   turning point for humanity, and no amount of lies spewed by   Donald Trump and Scott Pruitt can ever change that.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tOn  EPA chief Scott Pruitt still won’t say whether President Trump believes climate change is a hoax.   ” ’ ’t’t’tEPA Admin Scott Pruitt: Exiting the climate deal was not a political decision   ’ ’Environmental Protection Agency Administrator. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’