’  ’ ”     WASHINGTON (Reuters)   David Rank, the chargé d’affaires of the     US Embassy in Beijing, has left the State Department over the     Trump administration’s decision to quit the 2015 Paris     agreement to fight climate change, a senior US official said on     Monday.   ” ”     A State Department spokeswoman confirmed Rank’s departure, but     said she was unable to verify Twitter posts that said he     resigned as he felt unable to deliver a formal notification to     China of the US decision last week to quit the agreement.   ” ’     ”He has retired from the foreign service,” said Anna       a spokeswoman for the department’’s East Asia     Bureau. ”Mr Rank has made a personal decision. We appreciate     his years of dedicated service to the State Department.”   ’ ”     Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, President Donald Trump’s pick as     the next US ambassador to Beijing, is expected to take up the     post later this month.   ” ”     A tweet from China expert John Pomfret quoted unnamed sources     as saying that Rank had resigned as he could not support     Trump’s decision last week to withdraw from the Paris     agreement.   ” ’     Another tweet from Pomfret said Rank called a town hall meeting     to announce his decision to embassy staff and explained that he     could not deliver a diplomatic note informing the Chinese     government of the US decision.   ’ ’     A senior US official confirmed the account given in the tweets     but added that after Rank announced his intention to retire on     Monday in Beijing, he was told by the State Department to leave     his post immediately. The official spoke on condition of     anonymity.   ’ ’     On June 1, the US State Department accepted the resignation of     its top personnel officer, who had been among its few remaining     senior Obama administration political appointees, another US     official said.   ’ ’     Arnold Chacon had served as the director general of the foreign     service and director of human resources.   ’ ’  ’ ’     The official said Chacon had tendered his resignation when     Trump was inaugurated on Jan. 20, along with all presidential     appointees, who serve at the pleasure of the president and     secretary of state.   ’ ”     The acceptance of Chacon’s resignation was first reported by     the DiploPundit website.   ” ’     It was not immediately clear whether he would be offered     another post at the department.   ’ ”     Other than Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, his deputy John     Sullivan and Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs Tom     Shannon, the   US diplomat, most of the State     Department’s senior posts are currently vacant or filled by     acting officials.   ” ’     Chacon and Rank, a career foreign service officer who took over     the post of deputy chief of mission in Beijing in January 2016,     could not immediately be reached for comment.   ’ ”     Jonathan Fritz, the embassy’s economics councillor, would serve     as chargé in his place,   said.   ” ’     Rank had been with the department for 27 years and served as     the political councillor at the US Embassy in Afghanistan from     2011 to 2012.   ’ ”     Trump’s announcement on Thursday that he would withdraw the     United States from the Paris climate accord, saying the     agreement would undermine the US economy and cost jobs, drew     anger and condemnation from world leaders and heads of     industry.   ” ’     (Reporting by David Brunnstrom and John Walcott, additional     reporting by Jonathan Landay and Arshad Mohammed, editing by G     Crosse and Cynthia Osterman)   ’ ’WASHINGTON (Reuters)   David Rank, the. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’