’  ’ ’   President Donald Trump’’s recent tweets about the London terror   attacks and his administration’’s controversial ”travel ban” have   increased the already prevalent perception that he is going rogue   and undermining his team along the way. ’ ’   Trump started off Monday morning by blasting the Department of   Justice for watering down his temporary ban on travel from some   majority Muslim countries. ’ ’   ”The Justice Dept. should have stayed with the original Travel   Ban, not the watered down, politically correct version they   submitted to S. C.,” he    referring to the Supreme Court. ’ ”   After several more tweets on the travel ban, he pivoted to   criticizing London’s mayor over his handling of the terror   attacks there this past weekend. ” ’   ”Pathetic excuse by London Mayor Sadiq Khan who had to think fast   on his ’’no reason to be alarmed’’ statement,” Trump .   (News outlets  that Trump seems to have misconstrued Khan’’s   statement, which urged Londoners not to be alarmed by the   increased police presence around the city in response to the   attacks. Seven people were killed and 48 others were injured   after three men rammed a van into pedestrians and subsequently   went on a stabbing spree. The terrorist group ISIS took credit   for the attacks.) ’ ’   Trump’’s Monday morning tweets created new controversy, undermined   his Department of Justice, and took attention away from his   administration’’s planned ”,” which was supposed to showcase an important part of   the president’’s agenda in the hopes that it would distract from   ousted FBI Director James Comey’’s blockbuster testimony on   Thursday. ’ ’   Instead of focusing on Trump’’s infrastructure plans, the White   House was forced to address his latest series of tweets on   Monday. In an interview with NBC’’s ”Today,”  who has  use of Twitter previously, said the news media   has an ”obsession with covering everything he says on Twitter and   very little what he does as president.” ’ ”   But Trump’s inflammatory tweets often draw backlash, sometimes   from the subjects they target, which leads to more headlines and   questions from reporters. ” ”   Trump’s initial criticism of Khan came Sunday. ” ’   ”At least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and Mayor of   London says there is ’’no reason to be alarmed! ’’” . ’ ’   The tweet was a sharp turn from Trump’’s earlier tweet, in which   he promised the US would do ”whatever”    saying ”we will be there.” ’ ’   Khan’’s staff called the tweet ”” and   said the mayor did not have time to respond, which then triggered   Trump’’s   tweet. ’ ”   Meanwhile, the US embassy in London felt it necessary to   contradict Trump and praise Khan’s leadership. ” ’   ”I commend the strong leadership of the @MayorofLondon as he   leads the city forward after this heinous attack,” Lewis Lukens,   an appointee of President Barack Obama’’s who is serving as the   interim leader of the embassy, . ’ ’   Trump also might have created headaches for his own   administration with his travel ban tweets. ’ ’   The ban is currently being blocked by federal courts. In   upholding a nationwide block on the order, the 4th US Circuit   Court of Appeals  ”drips with religious intolerance, animus, and   discrimination.” ’ ”   But Trump seemed to suggest that the current travel ban doesn’t   go far enough. The initial travel ban introduced by the Trump   administration, which did not make clear that existing visa   holders could enter the country and also included Iraq on the   list of banned countries, was withdrawn after it too was blocked   by the courts. ” ’   The Department of Justice appealed last week to the Supreme Court   to review the legality of the current order. ’ ’     ”The Justice Dept. should ask for an expedited hearing of the     watered down Travel Ban before the Supreme Court   & seek     much tougher version!” Trump  Monday.   ’ ’  ’ ’     The tweets could cause problems in court, as the DOJ has tried     to distance itself from the original order in defending the new     one. Trump has already seen his past statements, and those of     his surrogates, used against him in court, particularly his     calling for a Muslim ban in December of 2015.   ’ ”     The DOJ lawyers defending the order have repeatedly called for     Trump’s statements not to be considered when ruling on the     legality of the order, instead asking the judges to focus on     the text of the document. But that strategy has not proven     effective yet, as judges have taken Trump’s statements into     consideration.   ” ’     ”In any event we are EXTREME VETTING people coming into the     U. S. in order to help keep our country safe,” . ”The     courts are slow and political!”    ’ ”     George Conway, Kellyanne’s husband who recently withdrew from     consideration for a top job at the DOJ, tweeted Monday that the     president’s tweets hurt his cause.   ” ’     ”These tweets may make some ppl feel better, but they certainly     won’’t help [the Office of the Solicitor General] get 5 votes in     SCOTUS, which is what actually matters,” . ”Sad.”   ’ ”     These aren’t the only recent instances of Trump falling out of     sync with his administration.   ” ’     Monday that Trump’’s national security team was ”blindsided” by     Trump not explicitly endorsing Article 5 of NATO during a     speech to NATO leaders last month in Europe.   ’ ’     An endorsement of Article 5  —   which states that an attack     against one NATO nation is considered an attack against all of     NATO  —   was included in the original text Trump was set to     deliver, according to Politico. But Trump did not discuss it in     his big speech, instead opting to focus on lecturing     representatives from NATO countries on how they needed to     increase defense spending.   ’ ’     Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, national security adviser H. R.     McMaster, and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson reportedly     worked for weeks with Trump to nail down the NATO speech,     with each pushing for an endorsement of Article 5 to be     included after noticing it had been removed in later drafts.   ’ ’     ”There was a fully coordinated other speech everybody else had     worked on”  —   and it wasn’’t the one Trump gave, a White House     official told Politico.   ’ ”     Trump’s continued undermining of his staff has led to     rumors of a bigger White House shakeup to come.   ” ’     Following the president’’s ouster of Comey last month,  is coming and that Trump is     not pleased with his communications staff and its messaging,     which he regularly contradicts. Trump even went as far to tweet     last month that his surrogates can’’t speak for him ”with     perfect accuracy”  his administration’’s messaging on the     rationale for Comey’’s firing.   ’ ’     ”As a very active President with lots of things happening, it     is not possible for my surrogates to stand at podium with     perfect accuracy!” Trump tweeted, adding in a subsequent tweet:     ”Maybe the best thing to do would be to cancel all future     ’’press briefings’’ and hand out written responses for the sake     of accuracy? ??”   ’ ’     But so far, the only person who has left a top White House job     in the weeks since those reports was communications director     Mike Dubke.   ’ ”     Trump’s tendency to go rogue, which has become amplified in     recent weeks, might make such a staff shakeup impossible.   ” ’ noted     Monday that Reince Priebus, Trump’’s chief of staff who is     routinely mentioned as being on the chopping block, remains in     place because of ”his greatest job security”  —   the fact that     ”there are few takers for what might be an unworkable gig.”   ’ ”     With Trump’s   often splitting from that of his     team, Politico wrote that Priebus is left with little power.   ” ’     ”He stays in the office until late at night and often toils     away on the weekend with little control of what ultimately     happens,” the publication wrote.   ’ ”President Donald Trump’s recent tweets about. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’