’  ’ ’   Sen. Mark Warner  on   Tuesday that the extent of Russia’’s cyberattacks around the US   election was ”much broader than has been reported so far.” ’ ”   The comments from Warner, the ranking Democrat on the Senate   Intelligence Committee, came one day after    reported on a   National Security Agency document that   said hackers associated with Russia’s military intelligence   agency targeted a company with information on US voting software   days before the election. ” ’   The agency used the data to launch ”  ”   cyberattacks on local government officials, according to the NSA   document. ’ ”   Warner told USA Today that he was pushing intelligence agencies   to declassify the names of the states affected by those   cyberattacks so they could prepare for midterm elections in 2018.   The Senate Intelligence Committee is investigating Russia’s   election interference and whether any member of President Donald   Trump’s campaign team colluded with Moscow to undermine Hillary   Clinton. ” ’   ”I really want to press the case,” Warner said. ”This is not an   attempt to embarrass any state. This is a case to make sure that   the American public writ large realizes that if we don’’t get   ahead of this, this same kind of intervention could take place in   2018 and definitely will take place in 2020.” ’ ’’ ’   The  in August that up to 20%   of US voters would use a digital system without a paper trail to   cast votes on November 8, and 42 states would use voting machines   that were at least a decade old and had outdated hardware and   software. ’ ’   The NSA document offers the clearest indication yet that Russian   hackers sought to penetrate US voting systems tied to voter   registration in the days and weeks leading up to the election.   And it’’s most likely ”just the tip of the iceberg,” said Jeff   Bardin, the chief intelligence officer at the cybersecurity firm   Treadstone 71. ’ ’   ”This was the Russians’’ way of seeing what they could get access   to,” Bardin said in an interview. ”They realized they could get   access to the voting registration systems, which can have an   impact on state elections and primaries. And this was only one   NSA report about one [hacked] system. ’ ’   ”If the Russians were going after this system, how many others   could they have gone after?” Bardin added. ’ ’   The NSA document  —   which the Justice Department says was stolen   and leaked to The Intercept by a    government   contractor from Georgia  —   concluded that ”Russian intelligence   obtained and maintained access to elements of multiple US state   or local electoral boards” in the days leading up to the   election. ’ ”   The NSA did not draw any conclusions about whether the effort had   an effect on the election’s outcome. The agency declined to   comment when reached by Business Insider on Monday. ” ’   But according to the NSA report, evidence that the hackers were   also stealing the login credentials of people with administrative   access to the   systems raises concerns that the   Russians were able to do ”anything they wanted”  —   including,   Bardin said, breaching voting machines. ’ ’   ”It is possible,” Bardin said. ”The   systems   they hacked would just have to have some tie back into the actual   voting machine.” ’ ’Sen. Mark Warner told USA Today on Tuesday that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’