’  ’ ”   Russian hackers are believed to have breached Qatar’s state news   agency in order to plant a fabricated news story that may have   influenced the diplomatic crisis in the Middle East, . ” ”   US authorities said Russia’s goal may have been to sow discord   between the US and its allies in the region. ” ”   Intelligence from US agencies signaled that Russian hackers were   involved in the first cyberattack two weeks ago. Since then, a   team of FBI investigators have been sent to Qatar’s capital city   of Doha to assist the Qataris in the investigation, according to   Qatari and US officials. ” ’   Although US officials pointed to Russia as the source of the   hacking, it has yet to be determined whether the latest incident   was traced back to criminal organizations in Russia or Russian   military intelligence units, such as the GRU. However, as one   unnamed official in CNN’’s report said, based on previous   intelligence on Russia’’s   activities, ”not much   happens in that country without the blessing of the government,”   the official said. ’ ”   On May 23, the Qatar News Agency published a story that they   alleged was falsely attributed to the country’s emir, Sheikh   Tamim bin Hamad  . The story quoted him questioning the   fate of Donald Trump’s presidency and the US’ hostility toward   Iran, Qatar’s ally and adversary to other nations in the Gulf,   such as Saudi Arabia. ” ’’ ’   The  quoted the emir as saying ”There is no   wisdom in harboring hostility towards Iran.” Qatar said that   report and the quote attributed to the emir were false. ’ ’   Since the publication, Qatar has called the report a ”shameful   cybercrime.” The rift between Qatar and nations like Bahrain,   Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates also reached a   diplomatic low this week, after they announced they would   withdraw their diplomatic staff from Qatar and suspend flights in   the region. ’ ’   ”Whatever has been thrown as an accusation is all based on   misinformation and we think that the entire crisis being based on   misinformation,” Qatari Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed Bin   Abdulrahman   told CNN. ”Because it was started based on   fabricated news, being wedged and being inserted in our national   news agency which was hacked and proved by the FBI.” ’ ”   As a key staging ground for US forces, Qatar contains several   military bases for the US, including US Central Command’s   headquarters in the Middle East. ” ’   ”I think this is very dangerous,” said Rep. Ted Yoho of Florida   on CNN. ”This is something the world community needs to be on   notice. When another country can cause this kind of a havoc and   break diplomatic ties . .. this is something we all need to come   to the table and negotiate these things.” ’ ’Russian hackers are believed to have breached. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’