’  ’ ’   Attorney General Jeff Sessions recently suggested he could   resign amid a souring relationship between himself and   President Donald Trump, sources . ’ ’   The news outlet reported that the ”friction” between the   president and his attorney general stems from Sessions’’ March   decision to recuse himself from the investigation into Russian   election meddling and all   inquiries. ’ ’   Multiple sources told ABC that the recusal is ”one of the top   disappointments” of Trump’’s presidency. ABC’’s sources said Trump   ”has remained fixated on it,” and two sources said Trump has   ”lashed out repeatedly” at Sessions privately, pointing at his   decision to recuse himself as the reason for the escalation in   the Russia investigation. Former FBI Director Robert Mueller, who   last month was appointed special counsel by Deputy Attorney   General Rod Rosenstein, now oversees the investigation. ’ ’   The tense relationship between the two men ”runs both ways,” ABC   wrote, adding that Sessions’’ sentiment prompted his resignation   offer. Sessions was the first senator to publicly endorse Trump   and has been one of his most loyal backers. Trump rewarded   Sessions after his election with one of the most coveted jobs in   any administration, the opportunity to lead the Justice   Department. ’ ’   Sarah Isgur Flores, a Justice Department spokesperson, declined   to comment on the ABC story when emailed by Business   Insider. ’ ’’ ’   Earlier Tuesday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said he   could not answer when asked if Trump still has confidence in   Sessions. ’ ’   ”I have not had that discussion with him,” Spicer said. He later   added, after being pressed again on the matter: ”I said I have   not had a discussion with him on the question. I don’t, If I   haven’’t had a discussion about a subject, I tend not to speak   about it.” ’ ’   The reportedly deteriorating relationship between Trump and   Sessions  which   said Monday that Trump was placing blame on Sessions for   ”various problems” that faced his administration. ’ ’   On Monday morning, Trump took aim at the Justice Department on   Twitter for its defense of his controversial travel ban on six   Muslim countries, which is currently blocked by the courts. Trump   seemed to blame the DOJ for the ”politically correct” revised   version of the order, which Trump himself signed, posting that   the Justice Department ”should have stayed with the original   Travel Ban, not the watered down, politically correct version   they submitted” to the Supreme Court. ’ ’   The Times reported that Trump ”has intermittently fumed for   months over” Sessions’’ recusal from all Russia matters, citing   individuals close to the president. That recusal is connected ”in   some way” to ”much of the past two months of discomfort and     pain for Trump,” the Times wrote. ’ ’Attorney General Jeff Sessions recently. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’