’  ’ ”   James Comey, the former FBI director, said he told President   Donald Trump on three occasions that he wasn’t the subject of a   counterintelligence investigation, but Trump was upset that Comey   would not say so publicly, according to Comey’s prepared written   testimony, released ahead of his blockbuster hearing on Thursday. ” ’   In the  published by the Senate Intelligence Committee on   Wednesday, Comey also said the main reason he did not publicly   announce that Trump was not part of the bureau’’s Russia probe was   that ”it would create a duty to correct, should that change.” ’ ”   Comey wrote in his testimony that he first assured Trump that he   was not personally under FBI investigation during his first   meeting with the   during which he and other   intelligence officials briefed him on the intelligence   community’s conclusions about Russia’s interference in the 2016   election. ” ’   ”Prior to the January 6 meeting, I discussed with the FBI’’s   leadership team whether I should be prepared to assure     Trump that we were not investigating him   personally,” Comey said. ”That was true; we did not have an open     case on him. We agreed I should do so if   circumstances warranted. During our    meeting at Trump   Tower, based on   Trump’’s reaction to the briefing   and without him directly asking the question, I offered that   assurance.” ’ ’   Comey’’s next assurance came during a dinner with Trump on January   27. Trump mentioned what Comey referred to as the ”salacious   material” he had briefed Trump about on January 6, most likely   meaning the dossier of information, collected by a former British   spy, that claimed the Russians had compromising information about   Trump. ’ ’   Trump, ”as he had done previously, expressed his disgust for the   allegations and strongly denied them,” Comey wrote in the   testimony. ”He said he was considering ordering me to investigate   the alleged incident to prove it didn’’t happen. I replied that he   should give that careful thought because it might create a   narrative that we were investigating him personally, which we   weren’’t, and because it was very difficult to prove a negative. ’ ’   ”He said he would think about it and asked me to think about it,”   Comey continued. ”As was my practice for conversations with   President Trump, I wrote a detailed memo about the dinner   immediately afterwards and shared it with the senior leadership   team of the FBI.” ’ ”   The final assurance came in March, after Comey’s hearing before   the House Intelligence Committee, when he publicly announced the   FBI was investigating whether the Trump campaign colluded with   Russians during the election. That investigation began in late   July. ” ’   ”I explained that we had briefed the leadership of Congress on   exactly which individuals we were investigating and that we had   told those congressional leaders that we were not personally   investigating President Trump,” Comey said in the testimony. ”I   reminded him I had previously told him that.” ’ ’   Trump seemed agitated that Comey did not publicly confirm he was   not under investigation, according to the testimony. ’ ’   ”He repeatedly told me, ’’We need to get that fact out,’’” Comey   said. ”I did not tell the president that the FBI and the   Department of Justice had been reluctant to make public   statements that we did not have an open case on President Trump   for a number of reasons, most importantly because it would create   a duty to correct, should that change.” ’ ”   But Trump also seemed to welcome the FBI’s investigation into his   associates, while denying personal responsibility. ” ’   ”The president went on to say that if there were some ’’satellite’’   associates of his who did something wrong, it would be good to   find that out, but that he hadn’’t done anything wrong and hoped I   would find a way to get it out that we weren’’t investigating   him,” Comey wrote. ’ ’   Comey said in his testimony that Trump later said the     ”cloud” hanging over his administration ”was   interfering with his ability to make deals for the country.” ’ ”   After firing Comey in early May, Trump told NBC News’ Lester Holt   that Comey had  that he was not under   investigation. ” ’ ’ ’James Comey, the former FBI director, said he. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’