’  ’ ”   While there was plenty of news to chew on from former FBI   Director James Comey’s  on   Thursday, it’s clear the investigation into Russia’s influence on   the 2016 election, and whether there was collusion with President   Donald Trump’s campaign, is far from over. ” ’   That means nothing good for Wall Street. ’ ”   Isaac Boltansky of the   firm Compass Point told   Business Insider that Comey’s testimony proved nothing would be   resolved anytime soon, delaying hope for Wall     reforms like bank deregulation or . ” ’   ”The hearing was in line with expectations, and the market   appears to have shrugged it off for the time being,” Boltansky   said in an email after the testimony. ”From a markets   perspective, my concern remains that this issue is beginning to   dominate the congressional bandwidth, which is a headwind for   advancing the GOP’’s   agenda.” ’ ’   Chris Krueger of Cowen Washington Research Group agreed with the   assessment that while the hearing did not reveal a lot of new   information or change the investigation in any large way, it put   the legislative agenda on hold. ’ ’’ ’   ”Slows everything down,” Krueger told Business Insider. ”The only   thing moving on the Hill with any velocity, momentum, or   bipartisanship is investigations.” ’ ’   Krueger also said that while tax reform, Wall Street’’s favorite   policy proposal on Trump’’s agenda, was on a ”separate track” from   the investigation, Comey’’s testimony and similar events ”delays   that engine.” ’ ’   Investors have been anxiously awaiting an overhaul of the tax   code because tax cuts would drive down costs for corporations and   most likely lead to higher profits, and thus higher stock prices. ’ ’   ”Can still get done, but Congress must clear healthcare and the   [fiscal 2018] budget sequentially and avoid a shutdown and a   default due to the debt ceiling   …     just to get to tax on the   table,” Krueger said in an email. ’ ’While there was plenty of news to chew on from. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’