’  ’ ”   Colombia’s peace process with the   rebel group   Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, is stumbling   forward. ” ’   FARC rebels recently announced they had  of   their weapons, but the deadline for those turnovers, originally   the end of May, has been    because of construction delays and other issues hindering the   demobilization process. ’ ’   As the FARC leaves the battlefield, a number of problems have   cropped up. ’ ’   Production of coca, the main ingredient in cocaine, is up   considerably . Violence in  of   the country has continued or increased as well, as criminal   groups and dissident rebel factions    of territory vacated by the FARC. ’ ”   The Colombian government has tried to crack down on the groups   driving the killing, but they’ve put police and the military   under fire in a style reminiscent of Pablo Escobar, adding to the   body count. ” ’   Chief among those groups is Los Urabeños, also known as the Gulf   clan, the most powerful of  and likely the only one   . ’ ”   Colombia has  to scour northwest Colombia, often in Black Hawk   helicopters. The government says it’s closing in on the group’s      leader, Dario Antonio Usuga, aka Otoniel, who   reportedly has to change locations .   (Otoniel, however, has eluded capture for years.) ” ’  ’ ’   ”We have him within striking distance,” Jose Angel Mendoza, head   of the   police division,  earlier   this month. ”He has had to run for it at the last second, more   than once.” ’ ”   Colombian officials have dropped leaflets offering a reward for   information about Otoniel from helicopters over northwestern   Antioquia, the gang’s home turf whose capital, Medellin, was   . ” ’   The US State Department has offered a    based on a 2009 indictment in a New York court, calling Los   Urabeños  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   But Los Urabeños is fighting back. ’ ”   Taking a page from Escobar’s playbook, the gang  —   responsible for      production in Colombia, which produced 646 metric tons of the   drug in 2015  —   is targeting the police, cutting down officers in   the streets in a campaign reminiscent of Escobar’s vicious fight   against the state in the early 1990s. ” ’   Targeted killings of police date back to March, and have been    in part   to the National Liberation Army, another   rebel group   present in the country. ’ ’   Los Urabeños appears to be responsible for many of the more   recent police killings. During May, Los Urabeños gave out   leaflets  and   officials believe the   group is offering  for   each death. Police  the   killings are in retaliation for   action against   the group. ’ ’   Eleven police    throughout May, most of them on patrol. The killings have taken   place around the country but mainly in the north around Antioquia   and along the Panamanian border. ’ ’   The killing spree has been compared to the ”,” a   campaign devised by Escobar to put pressure on the government in   the early 1990s. Even the governor of Antioquia,  ’ ’  ’ ’ By   the end of 1992, Escobar upped the ante by offering  for   Medellin cops. ’ ”   Not content with shootings, Escobar ; a massive one exploded outside a stadium in the city   on December 2, killing 10 police and three civilians. At the end   of the month, authorities found another massive car bomb outside   the national police’s provincial headquarters. ” ’   By the time Escobar himself was gunned down in December 1993,   hundreds of Colombian police had been slain. ’ ’   ”In Colombia, every time a criminal group turns to killing   police, they do it as a desperate measure,” Vice President Oscar   Naranjo, who battled the nation’’s drug cartels as national police   chief,  in May. ’ ’  ’ ’   State pressure on Los Urabeños has intensified as well. In late   May, the national police reported  of the gang who were involved in police killings. ’ ’   Around the same time, Colombian authorities reported capturing a   gang leader known as ”El Boyaco,” who is  the campaign against police. ’ ”   While Escobar was not a rebel or an insurgent, his campaign did   have the political objective of getting the government to relent   in its efforts to capture or kill his cartel’s members and to   secure an agreement not to extradite them to the US. The FARC,   both insurgents and traffickers, had designs on remaking   Colombia’s political system. ” ’  ’ ”   Los Urabeños don’t appear to have aspirations for their deadly   campaign beyond getting the police off their backs. ” ’   ”Unlike what we have seen in the past, these groups don’’t have   defined political objectives,” Jorge Restrepo, director of the   Conflict Analysis Resource Center in Bogota, . ’ ”   Despite police success in capturing or killing its leaders,   however, the gang appears to be    in Colombia’s prime trafficking territory, and continued seizures   of large quantities of cocaine  —   like 6 metric tons of it seized   in April in what was then Colombia’s   —   indicate the gang still has the ability to move vast   amounts of the drugs. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”Colombia’s peace process with the  . ..” ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’