’  ’ ”   Chinese President Xi Jinping has assured US President Donald   Trump that China has limited influence over North Korea, but   that’s only half true. ” ”   It’s true that diplomatic relations between the two are weak. Xi   has never visited Kim Jong Un in Pyongyang, and Kim has never   been to Beijing.   officials with ties to China in   North Korea have been executed at Kim’s order, sometimes with   packs of dogs, sometimes with   guns. ” ’   But Gordon Chang, the author of ”The Coming Collapse of China,”    that 90% of North Korea’’s trade is   done with China, accounting for 90% of its oil and, in some   years, 100% of its aviation fuel. ’ ’   After a provocative North Korean missile launch in 2003, China   cut off its supply of oil to North Korea for three days. In no   time, the Kim regime caved to international demands and sat down   for the   talks on nuclear disarmament. ’ ’   ”China can disarm North Korea in the blink of an eye,” Chang   wrote. ’ ”   And it could do so by crippling North Korea’s economy  —   but at a   huge cost to North Koreans. ” ”   Sanctions on North Korea do not affect regular trade. Although   the UN takes very seriously the prospect of an aggressive,     North Korea, economic warfare in the form of     sanctions would harm or kill civilians  —   China also   supplies at least a third of North Korea’s food, according to   Chang. ” ”   Additionally, China pressing North Korea to the point of regime   collapse would contradict its interests, as Beijing doesn’t want   to face a strong, democratic, unified Korea on its border that   could play host to US military installations. ” ’  ’ ”   But North Korea, with its incessant nuclear provocations and   nearly weekly missile tests, functions as a giant bull’  for   the US, though any military confrontation would run a high risk   of going nuclear and killing hundreds of thousands, if not more. ” ’   ”China will either decide to help us with North Korea or they   won’’t,” Trump said in an April interview with the .   ”If they do, that will be very good for China, and if they don’’t,   it won’’t be good for anyone.” ’ ”   So as North Korea progresses toward a nuclear missile that can   strike the US, China must decide how hard it’s willing to press   the rogue Kim regime while considering its increasingly strained   relationship with the US over supporting it. ” ’Chinese President Xi Jinping has assured US. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’