’  ’ ”   In the aftermath of former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony   before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday, critics of   President Donald Trump have argued that his interactions with   Comey constitute obstruction of justice. ” ’   Specifically, critics have pointed to several statements Comey   has said Trump made, including a request to end his investigation   into Michael Flynn, the former national security advisor. ’ ’   ”I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting   Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go,” Trump   said during a    meeting in the Oval Office in February,   according to Comey’’s . ’ ”   Comey added on Thursday that he understood Trump’s comments to be   an order. ” ’   ”I mean, this is a president of the United States with me alone   saying, ’’I hope this. ’’ I took it as, this is what he wants me to   do. I didn’’t obey that, but that’’s the way I took it,” Comey   said. ’ ’’ ”   The notion that Trump’s comments to Comey constitute obstruction   of justice has been vehemently rejected by Trump’s supporters.   Republican Senator Jim Risch of Idaho argued during Comey’s   testimony that there is no legal basis to charge Trump for the   comments Comey accused him of making. ” ’   ”You may have taken it as a direction, but that’’s not what he   said,” Risch responded. ”He said, ’’I hope’’   …     You don’’t know of   anyone ever being charged for hoping something  —   is that a fair   statement?” To which Comey replied he didn’’t. ’ ’   But  shared on Twitter   an instance of a statement beginning with ”I hope” being used by   the Eight Circuit Court of Appeals in 2008 to form part of the   basis for a sentence enhancement for obstructing justice. ’ ’   ”I hope and pray to God you did not say anything about a weapon   when you were in Iowa. Because it will make it worse on me and   you even if they promised not to prosecute you,” a defendant   wrote to his girlfriend, who was a potential witness. ’ ”   The defendant in the case, Collin McDonald, had pleaded guilty to   one count of bank robbery  —   during which he carried a concealed   knife, according to his girlfriend’s testimony  —   and was   sentenced by a lower court to 175 months in prison, to be served   consecutively to previous sentences he had been given by   different courts. ” ’   The case reached the Eighth Circuit when McDonald challenged the   consecutive sentences, arguing that the lower court should not   have imposed a sentence enhancement due to his attempts to   obstruct justice, in addition to several other charges. ’ ’   McDonald argued that the obstruction of justice enhancement   should not be imposed because his girlfriend’’s testimony was not   credible. The Eighth Circuit held that the girlfriend’’s testimony   had been ”totally believable,” and therefore the sentence   enhancement warranted. ’ ” is not an exact comparison to the   situation with Trump and Comey  —   the Eighth Circuit’s decision   concerned sentencing minutiae for a convicted bank robber rather   than an indictment against the president. Yet the case   nevertheless sheds some light on how courts view statements that   are perceived to be threatening. ” ’   The Times was also able to identify   cases where a case for obstruction of justice was made,   at least in part, by defendants’’ ”I hope” statements. ’ ’   ”We have examples all the time in criminal law of people saying   things only slightly subtly, where everyone understands what is   meant  —   ’’Nice pair of legs you got there; shame if something   happened to them,’’” Samuel Buell, a Duke University law professor   and former federal prosecutor, . ’ ’In the aftermath of former FBI Director James. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’