” By sometime later this summer, Congress will have to       raise the nation’s debt ceiling. ” ’   The deadline that led to the night President Barack Obama once    of his presidency is once again   on the horizon in Washington. ’ ”   Raising the debt ceiling: At its core, a seemingly simple   function of Congress. But the battle over raising the   cap on how much debt the federal government can   incur emphasizes divides not only in Congress but also   within President Donald Trump’s administration. ” ”   Failing to reach a deal to raise the nation’s borrowing limit,   however, could be disastrous for the global economy and possibly   undermine large swaths of the international financial   system.  ” ’   ”I want to emphasize that the sooner they do it, the less   uncertainty there is in the market,” Treasury Secretary Steven   Mnuchin said of Congress on Friday. ’ ’   The timeframe for dealing with the debt ceiling has crept up amid   recent developments. ’ ’   ”I respectfully urge Congress to protect the full faith and   credit of the United States by acting to increase the statutory   debt limit as soon as possible,” Mnuchin    when a temporary suspension of the limit expired in March. ’ ’   Since then, the Treasury has used ”extraordinary measures”   to extend the timeframe on the debt ceiling by suspending   some investments in federal retirement funds and slowing the pace   of debt issuance. Originally, the Treasury and Office of   Management and Budget indicated the ceiling would be hit sometime   in the fall, though the exact timing is only a best estimate. ’ ’   Mnuchin said recently, however, that the pace of tax receipts the   department generated was slower than expected over the past few   months. ’ ’,”   Mnuchin told the House Ways and Mean Committee in a hearing   on May 24. ’ ’   On Friday, however, Mnuchin did seem a bit less alarmed, saying   the Treasury has ”backup plans” if the limit is not raised by   August. He did not specify those plans. ’ ’   ” ’ ’   Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and   Budget, also said  that the slower pace of tax   collections would mean the debt ceiling could be breached   sooner than previous projections. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”      tax receipts seem to be in part a problem of   Trump’s own making. Trump’s promise to cut taxes and recent   rollout of a   tax outline seems to be  of the lower rates. ” ” said tax receipts between October and April were 3%   below the office’s projections from January. The CBO said   that could be in part due to Trump’s tax promise. ” ’   ”The reason that payments for 2016 activity were smaller than   anticipated may be that income growth was weaker than expected in   calendar year 2016, or that taxpayers shifted more income than   projected from 2016 to later years, expecting legislation to   reduce tax rates to be enacted this year,” the CBO report said. ’ ’ has also reported that wealthier Americans   have been deferring tax payments on   income in order to   take advantage of the lower rates that Trump says are on the way. ’ ’ an analyst at   the Congressional Research Service, the idea of an official debt   limit stretches back to The Second Liberty Bond Act of 1917.   There has been an aggregate limit on the level of federal debt   since the 1939. ’ ’   Prior to this Congress, had to approve debt offerings by the   Treasury on an individual basis. The debt ceiling, on the other   hand, allowed Congress to exert some influence over spending   and debt issuance while making it easier for the Treasury to   effectively finance operations. That was especially   important for bond issuances to finance American involvement in   World War I. ’ ”   Since the debt ceiling’s inception, it was repeatedly raised with   little fuss  —   until the 21st century. ” ’     fights, especially amid massive deficit   increases following the 2008 financial crisis, have   become more difficult and politically contentious. ’ ’   Perhaps the most famous came in 2011, when it appeared   that Republican leadership in the House did not have enough votes   from its conference to pass the debt ceiling bill just hours   before it was set to be breached. Obama, in an interview in   January, called the moment the most   of his   presidency and said he had prepared a speech in case the US went   into partial default on its debt. ’ ”   Obama’s fear was warranted, given the massive impact failing to   raise the debt ceiling would have on not only the finances of the   federal government, but also the global economy. ” ’   In the most basic sense, if the debt limit is not raised the   government  and many elements of   the federal government . ’ ”   During previous debt ceiling fights, the major     agencies all said a default would lead to a serious   downgrade of the US’s credit rating. In 2011, the   simple fact that the US got so close a breach   led Standard & Poor’s to downgrade the country’s     rating  —    of the nation. ” ’   Further lowering the credit rating would increase borrowing   costs for the government, make issuing new debt more costly, and   cause serious disruptions in global credit markets. ’ ”   Outside of the effect on the US government’s   financial situation, the loss of faith that the America   would always pay its bills would ripple out into the global   economy. ” ’   For instance, even the prospect of a default in 2011 caused a   steep decline in US stock markets. A report on the macroeconomic   effect of the 2011 ceiling fight from  said that the ”S&P 500 index of   equity prices fell about 17% in the period surrounding the 2011   debt limit debate.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Amadou Sy, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, pointed   out just how important the US maintaining good standing is for   global investors in a post before the 2013 debt ceiling increase. ’ ’   ” ’ ”   Since the US dollar is the considered the world’s reserve   currency and US government bonds are key assets in much of   the world’s investment portfolios, undermining the world’s trust   in these financial products could be devastating.  ” ’ on the economic impact of such a default   concluded that the failure to raise the debt ceiling would be   catastrophic. ’ ’   From the report: ’ ’   Given the necessity of raising the ceiling, the argument over the   limit often becomes a battleground for various ideological   arguments and politically motivated riders. This time, it has   split not only Congress, but the Trump administration as well. ’ ’   Mnuchin, for one, has said he favors a ”clean” raise  —     legislation solely to raise the ceiling. ’ ’   On the other hand, Mulvaney has advocated for legislation   that includes some spending cuts designed to rein in some of the   debt increases in the future. Such a move would likely be a   poison pill for Democratic support and make it difficult to pass,   given the thin Republican majority in the Senate. ’ ’   Trump, for his part, has appeared to take Mnuchin’’s side, telling   congressional Republican leaders that Mnuchin is ”that guy”    ’ ”   Mulvaney’s position, however, is supported by his former   colleagues in the hardline conservative House Freedom Caucus    —   and by some in the House GOP leadership. ” ’   The Freedom Caucus, which continually pushes for debt reduction   and curtailed spending, even went as far as taking   an official position in May that it would not support   any debt ceiling bill without concessions on spending cuts.  ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan has also said the party   should target spending reductions to go along with a limit   raise, but did not guarantee they would have the votes to do so. ’ ’   ”Yes, that can be achieved,” Ryan told reporters at a press   conference Thursday. ”The question is can we assemble the vote   coalition to do that. So, we’’re not taking any options off the   table, we’’re talking with our members about what is the best way   to proceed, and how can we meet these fiscal deadlines we have.” ’ ’   Hardline deficit hawks in the Senate, like Sen. Rand Paul, also   have  as a part of debt   ceiling legislation. ’ ’  ’ ’   Democrats have long pushed for a clean raise, and so far that is   their official position. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’By sometime later this summer, Congress will. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’