’’ ’Amazon may be revving up its rivalry with Microsoft in the cloud. ’ ”The   giant appears to have big plans for business productivity apps, a market that’s currently dominated by Microsoft. The previously unannounced and still largely guarded plans seem to have come to light in a lawsuit Amazon  against a former employee.” ’Amazon sued Farrell violated his   clause by taking a job at a hot startup called Smartsheet. Amazon alleged that in his former position, where he oversaw AWS’’ business productivity apps, Farrell had access to the cloud service’’s ”’ ’’ ’’ ’competitors of its product are really Microsoft Excel (for those who like to use spreadsheets for everything) Microsoft Project, Microsoft Planner, and other online collaboration task management tools like Trello, Asana, and Jira.’ ”While AWS offers some business productivity tools, including file sharing, email and calendars, and some communication and collaboration apps, it doesn’t have anything like Smartsheet.” ’Amazon is essentially arguing that because it offers a few business productivity apps of its own, all such apps are competitors to AWS, Business Insider.’ ’The lawsuit is an ”enormous overreach”by Amazon, Mader said. ’ ’But the lawsuit may indicate something else  —   that is working on a direct competitor to Smartsheet.’ ’In its initial complaint and in ’ ’’ ’’ ”So it would seems from those documents that Amazon has big plans for AWS and likely has more business productivity apps in the works. If that’s the case, those    revealed plans may encroach not only on Smartsheet’s domain, but on those of Microsoft and other companies.” ”This wouldn’t be the first time Amazon has gone down the path of launching services that compete with those of its customers. It already competes with Logicworks,” ’”Don’’t partner with Amazon if you think there’’s no chance they are going to get to your business,” Ziegler said. ”The fact is, Amazon is going to compete with you. I don’’t care what business you are in. ”’ ”To be sure, Amazon doesn’t spell out its plans in its lawsuit against Farrell. And that suit could be more about how the company views   clauses than about a new product in development. ” ’The companya reputation for being   with requiring and enforcing such agreements. It even used to ask seasonal and hourly workers to sign them, though it ’ ’’ ’’ ’Amazon may be revving up its rivalry with. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’