’  ’ ’   Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn had a colorful way to   describe the secretive process of crafting a healthcare bill   during an interview on Monday. ’ ’   ”It’’s like having a baby. It’’s not here yet, but it’’s coming,”    ’ ’   That due date comes soon. The GOP is closing in on a deal   for a bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, the law   colloquially known as Obamacare, outside of the public eye. ’ ’   But before the bill debuts, a few key points of disagreements   among Republicans need to be ironed out. ’ ”   In an attempt to avoid the heavy backlash and ensure   disagreements in the conference don’t spill out into plain  —   as   was the case in the House GOP’s fight over the American   Health Care Act  —   the Republican Senate majority is  ” ’’ ’   Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and other leaders have   reportedly been crafting the bill with a small group of GOP   senators. But many members, even Republicans, have no idea   what the text of the bill contains. ’ ’   According to  and Laura Litvan, Republican Sens. Ron   Johnson, Bob Corker, Bill Cassidy, Lindsey Graham and Jeff Flake   . ’ ’   ” ’ ’   This secretive process has infuriated Democrats, who are accusing   Republicans of hiding behind closed doors because the House   version of healthcare legislation became so unpopular with the   American public. ’ ’   ”T   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Reports have suggested a few major problems preventing   Republicans from coming together behind one bill and advancing it   to the floor for a vote. ’ ’   While the bill is likely to look similar to the House AHCA on   many major aspects, several key issues will decide whether Senate   Republican leaders can get the bill passed. ’ ”   Among those problems include how long to continue funding for   Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion. The program allowed states to   increase the threshold for Medicaid enrollees to 138% of the   federal poverty limit. Many states controlled by Republicans took   the extra funding from the federal government, so the House   bill’s repeal of the funding in 2020 has gotten pushback from   senators in those states. ” ’   Conservatives like Sens. Ted Cruz and Rand Paul have also come   out against a slower   of this funding, making a   compromise more difficult. ’ ”   Other problems include funding for tax credits to allow people to   gain access to insurance coverage and maintaining Obamacare’s   essential health benefits, which mandate a minimum of health   procedures that insurance plans must cover. ” ’   With only a   majority, Republicans have little wiggle room   to have members turn against the bill. ’ ’Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn had a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’