’  ’ ”   Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian   election interference expanded to include whether President   Donald Trump attempted to obstruct justice just days after he   fired former FBI Director James Comey,  Wednesday. ” ”   As part of the probe, Mueller is interviewing senior   intelligence officials and looking for proof of any financial   crimes possibly committed by Trump’s associates, The Post   reported, citing US officials. ” ’   A spokesman for Trump’’s lawyer said in a statement that ”the FBI   leak regarding the President is outrageous, inexcusable, and   illegal,” but did not dispute the accuracy of the report. ’ ’     ’ ’   The scope of the probe had been previously limited to   possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign. Former   FBI Director James Comey  in a Senate testimony last week that he had told   Trump three times between January and March that he was not   personally under investigation. Trump said he felt ”vindicated”   by Comey’’s testimony. ’ ’   But that changed just days after Trump fired Comey,   according to the Post. Comey had been leading   the ’ ’ Days later, he told NBC’’s Lester Holt that ”the   Russia thing” had been on his mind when he dismissed the   former FBI director. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Mueller could interview Coats, Rogers, and ormer NSA deputy   Richard Ledgett, who retired in April, as early as next week.     ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Jeffrey Toobin, a CNN legal analyst, said last month that   Trump’’s request for Pence and Sessions to scram ”suggests   consciousness of guilt.” Claire Finkelstein, a professor at   the University of Pennsylvania Law School, told Business Insider      that  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   But Trump’s conversation with Comey was part of a broader pattern   that could more easily open him up to charges of obstruction of   justice, experts say, beginning with his  and assurance that he wasn’t   under FBI investigation and ending when he fired him.  ” ’   Trump has reportedly considered firing Mueller, who he   thinks is too close to Comey and is engaged in a ”witch hunt”   against him. But he has been advised it by his aides in recent   days. ’ ”Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’