’  ’ ’ •Kalanick now needs to put his life ahead of his   work. ’ ’ •We shouldn’’t expect ”Travis 2. 0” to be that much   different from ”Travis 1. 0” ’ ’ •The Uber crisis provides a moment to consider the moral   fiber of the    era. ’ ”   Following the release of a withering report on Uber’s workplace   culture by  ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   For Kalanick, Uber is a   game: I win, you lose, game   over. Actually, it’s harsher than that. In Kalanick’s world, the   losers don’t get to play the game anymore. ” ”   The result has been a near monopoly, but a costly one: Uber is   losing vast amounts of money to retain its position and the   dominant player in  . But Lyft, stubbornly, isn’t   going away and can’t seem to be spent out of existence.  ” ”   Columbia Business School professor Evan Rawley  that this means the best Uber can hope for is   to become the leader of an oligopoly  —   a troubling proposition,   given Uber’s lofty valuation, the need for investors to get a   payout at some point, and the ongoing cost of being the biggest. ” ’  ’ ”   Dealing with this challenge is going to require far more   technocratic leadership that what Kalanick can provide, and   that’s why the Uber board has been looking for a Chief Operating   Officer to transition the company from being a scrappy street   fighter to a mature corporation whose practices won’t freak out   conservative institutional investors. ” ”   As a practical matter, getting rid of Kalanick is difficult due   to Uber’s compliant board and his equity power over the company  —     like most founders in Silicon Valley, he’s rigged his shares so   that his vote counts for far more than everybody else’s.  ” ”   But Kalanick could, and I stress this, be a   person of more complicated character than Uber’s early narrative   would indicate. He’s clearly smart, and he’s clearly not devoid   of conscience, as his resignation from President Trump’s advisory   council amid protests over the administration’s failed travel ban   indicated. We shouldn’t be so cynical to assume that a hard and   damaged man can’t reinvent himself. There are second acts in   American life. ” ’   Which isn’’t to say that we should accept this whole ”Travis 2. 0”   thing, oozing as it does with Silicon Valley privilege, at face   value. Travis 2. 0 could have a higher and better future, but   maybe it isn’’t with Uber 2. 0. The worst case scenario is   obviously that Travis 2. 0 returns to Uber with revenge on his   agenda.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Early on, I liked Uber and was an avid customer. But Kalanick’’s      approach to business always rankled me, and the   swiftness by which ”Uber” became a favored verb, a signal of   one’’s hipness to the disruption, was disturbing. This was, after   all, a company that seemed to enjoy skirting laws and making   life hard for its drivers. ’ ’   Living in the New York area, I went back to yellow cabs. Part of   this was practical  —   raising my hand to get a ride is easier than   fumbling with a phone. But part of it was also the result of how   Kalanickism had suffused Uber. I figured I had to take a stand,   and so I switched over to Lyft in case I needed a backup for     taxis. ’ ”   None of this had anything to do with the evidently toxic   workplace culture that Uber engendered, but I’m not surprised   that the company’s crisis has revealed a morass of sexism, bad   behavior, and exploitative business practices in need   of immediate remedy. The bottom line is that I just had a   bad feeling about Uber than I couldn’t shake. ” ”   What Kalanick’s leave proves is that even with Silicon Valley   startups, there’s a moral element to how we   interact with  —   and, as journalists, cover  —       enterprises. They don’t get a pass because a large part of their   mandate is to obliterate and dynamically replace the old ways of   doing things. In fact, they need to rise to a higher level of   ethical scrutiny due to the heavy amount of destruction that’s   baked into their DNA. ” ”   It’s difficult to not be dazzled by the billions. But you still   have to look at yourself in the mirror every morning. ” ’•Kalanick now needs to put his life ahead of. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’