’’ ’A top Apple executive said on Tuesday that parts of a recent story in The Verge about the invention of the iPhone were ”not true. ”’ ”On Tuesday,  published an excerpt  a book about the invention of the iPhone over a decade ago and the device’s worldwide impact. ” ”Parts of the excerpt painted Phil Schiller, Apple’s top marketer and one of the most important executives at Apple, in an unflattering light. ” ’The excerpt says that Schiller fought for a   physical keyboard on the first iPhone until late Apple CEO Steve Jobs had to tell him to get with ”the program or get the    out. ”’ ”What’s notable about the anecdotes about Schiller were that they stemmed from    quotes from top former Apple employees,  who was in charge of the iPod division. ” ’: ’ ’It continues: ’ ’The passage culminates in Schiller shouting ”we’’re making the wrong decision” and being removed from a meeting and reprimanded by late CEO Steve Jobs, according to Fadell’’s recollection in the excerpt.’ ’Schiller denied the physical keyboard anecdote in a tweet: ’ ” ’t’t’tNot true. Don’t believe everything you read. ..’t’t” ’Fadell said he’’s asked Merchant to ”correct the record:” ’ ’ ’t’t’tI respect  as a colleague & friend. The story about him is not true. Have asked writer to correct the record.  ’ ”Fadell’s tweet makes it unclear whether he actually said the quotes attributed to him or whether he was misquoted. Fadell’s objection comes from the fact that he had quote approval, and he never approved the quotes about Schiller, a person close to Fadell told Business Insider.” ’In an interview with Business Insider, Merchant said he stands by the story and said that his conversation with Fadell was recorded.’ ’”’ ’’ ’”It’’s not an attack on Phil Schiller, I’’m just reporting on what people have said,” he said. ’ ’Apple declined to comment. ’ ’One former Apple employee who reported to Schiller criticized the excerpt. ”I can tell you there’’s stuff that’’s just not true,” Michael Gartenberg  on Tuesday. Gartenberg used to . ’ ’”Anyone who says Phil isn’’t technologically sophisticated is an idiot,” he told Business Insider on Twitter. ”Former employees always have selective memories. Myself included. ”’ ’Apple blogger and podcaster John Gruber, who  in San Jose earlier this month and who is widely read by Apple employees, has     questioning the book. ’ ”The quick reaction from Apple defenders to Merchant’s unauthorized Apple history is reminiscent of what happened to other recent books in which the subject is Apple. ” ’ was criticized by executives including CEO Tim Cook and head of design Jony Ive.  in Yukari Iwatani Kane’’s book ”Haunted Empire,” with Cook calling the entire work ”.” ’ ’ comes out next Tuesday. ’ ’A top Apple executive said on Tuesday that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’