’  ’ ’   A group of House Democrats have launched a task force to address   President Donald Trump’’s policies that they say ”compromise our   national security.” ’ ’   Chaired by Reps. Seth Moulton of Massachusetts, Stephanie Murphy   of Florida, and Jimmy Panetta of California, the Democratic   Caucus National Security Task Force aims to address the ”most   pressing security challenges,” and ”hold the Trump administration   accountable,” according to a statement. ’ ’   ”The Trump administration has taken  —   or pledged to take  —     certain foreign policy actions that are likely to compromise our   national security, weaken our alliances, and undermine our   values,” read a statement from the three representatives. ”Our   constituents seek a steady hand at the helm of our ship of   state.” ’ ’   ”Democrats need a strong, smart, and strategic approach to   national security,” said Moulton. ”This task force will hold the   administration accountable in a thoughtful and impactful way,   while working to find the best solutions to the national security   issues facing our country.” ’ ”   The formation of the task force comes months after a US cruise   missile strike at a Syrian airfield  —   a response to corroborated   reports of a deadly chemical attack on Syria’s civilian   population. Although Congress broadly supported Trump’s decision   after the fact, he has been criticized for the lack of a thorough     plan, which may have    due to ongoing volatility in the region. ” ’’ ’   The lack of a concrete plan is further evidenced by the US being   continually roped into the Syrian conflict through a proxy war  —     the  involving a US   fighter jet shooting down a   ”  regime” drone after it had attacked   forces   in southern Syria. ’ ’   ”The United States faces a wide range of threats, whether from   terrorist groups like ISIS or nations like North Korea,” said   Murphy. ”It has never been more important to develop and   implement national security policies that are smart, strategic,   and strong.” ’ ’A group of House Democrats have launched a task. ..’ ’Your Editor (online now)’ ’’ ’’ ’’