’    ’ ’   As  rival Lyft   is surging. ’ ’   After a trying few months, it’s been a particularly brutal week   for the   app. Tuesday saw the release of the results   of an intensive, monthslong investigation into its culture,   followed by  and   . And on Thursday, a   woman  for defamation, intrusion of privacy, and   public disclosure of private facts. ’ ’   Meanwhile, Lyft has embarked on an aggressive campaign to   position itself as a socially conscious alternative in a crowded   field, and is  as well as community engagement   efforts. It has not only committed to  but has   also been pushing its ”Round Up & Donate” program to get   riders to donate to favorite causes. ’ ’   ”We are continuing to operate as we have from day one, focused on   our mission of improving lives through the world’’s best   transportation,” said Alexandra LaManna, a spokesperson for Lyft.   ”Now that Lyft has reached its current scale and can compete   aggressively on price point and pickup times, it comes down to   brand    what that brand stands for    and the experience.” ’ ’   Lyft seems to have some momentum: it  back in April, and recently   teamed up with . It has also been   winning consumer accolades, say branding and crisis   reputation management experts. ’ ’   ”Uber projects an image that is careless,   sexist   and profiteering, aloof and uncaring, while Lyft appears be   benevolent and puts its values front and center,” Susan Cantor,   CEO at branding firm Red Peak, told Business Insider ”A focus on   causes and social good always plays well with Gen Y and Gen Z,   who see altruism as a must. So Lyft is   and   clearly capitalizing on Uber’’s missteps.” ’ ’   Andrew Gilman, CEO at crisis communications firm CommCore   Consulting Group, agreed, saying that Uber’s aggressive,     culture may have propelled it forward initially, but is the very   thing that is bringing it down now. ’ ’   ”When that culture turns into a stampede and almost every   corporate action violates people’s personal beliefs, the tide   will turn and people will vote with their fingers and pick other   apps,” he said. ”That is what is happening now.” ’ ’   Data shows that Uber has taken a serious hit, while Lyft has been   steadily gaining steam. Lyft has been closing the gap with Uber   in terms of app downloads, according to app analytics firm App   Annie,  on Tuesday.  ’ ”   Lyft has also overtaken Uber in terms of user engagement,   according to app analytics firm Apptopia. The percentage of   Uber’s total monthly active users that use the app everyday has   been dropping considerably, from 20% in February to 18% in March,   to 17% in April, and down to 16% in May. On the other hand,   Lyft’s usage has been consistent at 18% over the same time   period. ” ’  ’ ’     ’ ’  ’ ’   Further, American consumer favorability of Uber has also hit a   record low, according to Morning Consult Brand Intelligence, a   brand survey firm, . The firm found that just   40% of the respondents had a favorable impression of Uber as of   this week, the lowest that number has been since the survey began   in 2016. ’ ’   Lyft users took 70. 4 million rides in the first quarter of 2017   compared to 29 million rides in 2016,   which represents a    growth of   approximately 140 percent, according to the company.   This also equals an increase of 36%      with users taking 52. 6 million rides in the fourth quarter of   2016. Its drivers seem to be happier compared to Uber drivers as   well, with 76% of Lyft drivers saying that they were satisfied   with their experience driving for Lyft, versus 49% of Uber   drivers, according to Campbells,  ’ ’   Not only has Lyft been able to ”lift” its brand by capitalizing   on Uber’s mistakes, it has done so without directly attacking   Uber. This would help it go a long way, said Ben Ricciardi CEO of   branding agency Times10.  ’ ’   ”It’s genius how Lyft has been able to do it without directly   calling Uber out,” he said. ”Rather, they have chosen to do the   opposite of what Uber is doing, further connecting with their   patrons and positioning themselves as ’’the good guys. ’’” ’ ’   To be sure, Lyft is undoubtedly the underdog, and it is still a   long way from overtaking Uber. Uber’s   revenue   was $3. 4 billion, up 18% from 2016’s  . Lyft, on the   other hand told prospective investors in March that it expected   $800 million in   gross bookings,  Further, Uber trumps Lyft   in the number of downloads too, according to Apptopia, with   16 million downloads in May 2017 as opposed to 1. 3 million of   Lyft. ’ ’   Ultimately, Lyft will need to keep  as well as attracting more drivers   to keep the momentum going, said experts. ’ ’   ”Lyft’s next step should be expanding its corporate and     efforts and empowering its     workforce” said Chris Allieri, the founder and principal of the     firm Mulberry & Astor. ”Together with   recently   Lyft customers, Lyft’s drivers can be the front      for Lyft’s brand expansion.” ’ ”Uber’s brand has been hit, while Lyft is. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’