’  ’ ”   President Donald Trump’s newly filed financial disclosure report,   his first in 2017, was  by the   Office of Government Ethics (OGE) on Friday, offering insight   into his financial empire that has been scrutinized by   governmental ethics experts since the onset of his presidency. ” ”   The disclosure  covers   Trump’s finances from January 2016 until April 15, 2017. ” ’   One listing on the report, Trump’’s    golf club estate in   Palm Beach, Florida, stands out, due in part for its $37. 2   million in ”  revenue,” about $7. 5 million more than   in 2016. ’ ’   The estate made $29. 8 million in 2015, and $15. 6 million in 2014. ’ ’   Trump has spent 25 days at    since he took office,   prompting sharp criticism about the visits and questions about   whether Trump was   financially from them. ’ ’   Trump has also been accused of using    for official   government business by hosting world leaders there, including   Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who stayed at the resort in   February. ’ ”   Shortly before Trump’s inauguration,    also doubled its   annual membership fee to $200, 000. ” ’   In his five months as president, Trump was  to have   made seven weekend trips to    and two to his golf club   in Bedminster, New Jersey  —   a club that generated $19. 7 in   revenue, according to the financial disclosure. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump has asserted that the trips to his own properties save   the government money: ”Rather than causing a big disruption in   N. Y. C. I will be working out of my home in Bedminster, N. J. this   weekend. Also saves country money! ,” Trump  in May. ’ ’   In the past, presidents would normally travel to Camp David  —   the   presidential resort located in Maryland  —   just 62 miles from   Washington D. C. ’ ”   Although the report may offer some insight into Trump’s assets,   governmental ethics lawyers accusing Trump of violating the US   Constitution’s emoluments clause  —   as it pertains to payments   from foreign governments  —   remain unimpressed with the substance   of the disclosure. ” ’   ”It does nothing to clarify the critical conflicts questions,   relating to domestic policy and national and international   security that are left open by his failure to issue his tax   return,” former White House ethics lawyer Norman Eisen said in   . ’ ’ ’ ”President Donald Trump’s newly filed financial. ..” ’’ ’’ ’’