’  ’ ’   Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson is making a video game about   space exploration. ’ ”   Or trying to, anyway  —   the  went live on June 13 and runs   through July 29. At the time of writing, they’ve raised $43, 240   of the $314, 159 goal (). ” ’   The game, called ”Space Odyssey,” would ”allow players to   travel through the cosmos to scientifically accurate planets,   moons and exoplanets based in real science,” according to a press   release emailed to Business Insider. Tyson’’s basic   concept seems to be a captivating interactive experience   that still follows scientific principles. ’ ’   ”I have no patience for people who say, ’’I don’’t want the laws of   physics to constrain me,’’” Tyson  at the video game E3   convention in Los Angeles this week. ’ ’   On the Kickstarter page, the team behind the game promises a long   list of potential activities: ”Develop planets, colonize worlds,   nurture species, mine elements, build robots, and discover unique     as you coordinate with others in an intense game of     strategy.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Players would supposedly begin by exploring Proxima B, the   closest known exoplanet to our own solar system, just over 4   light years away (there are  there). After   exploring the surface of that planet and learning how the     physics systems work (with Tyson as your guide)   players would be ready to start the main event. Beginning   at a space station, they’d create and terraform a home   planet and system, taking into account real aspects of biology   and chemistry. That system can include be colonies and outposts  —     and you can play solo or with friends. ” ’   Players would also need to protect their systems from   threats, including environmental disaster, space objects, climate   change, disease, and the changes brought about by evolution and   whatever else may happen to a planet. ’ ”   Luckily, a digital assistant with Tyson’s soothing voice would   guide you through all of this. ” ’   Players would also be able to design a spacecraft to explore   galaxies created by friends or ”prominent scientists and   fictional   like Tyson, Bill Nye, George R. R.   Martin, Neil Gaiman, and Peter Beagle,” according to the   Kickstarter. ’ ’  ’ ’   Plus, there would be bonus virtual reality   (VR) missions, playable on an Oculus Rift or Samsung Gear,   according to a fact sheet for the game. ’ ’   The company behind the game is called Space Media Ventures. The   team includes producers who have worked in games, movies, and VR;   the comics creator behind ”Wolverine”; and artists who have   worked on games like ”God of War 3.” ’ ”   Tyson’s role seems to be largely inspiration and helping ensure   that the game stays true to real science. ” ’   Mark Murphy, partner and creative director at Space Media   Ventures,  that Tyson ”helped create challenges in   the game, and has challenged our creative team to entertain and   inspire. He has also brought forward some incredible   collaborators to our efforts, an incredible team of scientists,   astronauts and explorers.” ’ ’   ”Space Odyssey” seems to involve building activity similar to   ”Minecraft,” space colonization akin to that in    ”Civilization: Beyond Earth,” elements of exploration like ”No   Man’’s Sky,” and echoes of    simulator, ”Kerbal Space   Program.” Plus a whole lot of real (and really cool) science. ’ ’   That’’s ambitious, especially since the anticipated launch date of   ”Space Odyssey” is January 2019. ’ ’  ’ ’   With all that to design, the Kickstarter funding   seems unlikely to be sufficient for the project. But a   secondary purpose of the Kickstarter may be to   encourage community members to interact with and and   influence the game. ’ ’   ”[W]e do have other funding sources for the game; those sources   are not contingent on the crowdfund. For us this is a committed   community build, we want the people who will be playing our game   to have the opportunity to engage while the build is underway,”   Murphy told Business Insider. ”We are committed to providing   an enhanced physics experience which we call experiential physics   that will elevate game play regarding modding, mapping and   building and expressed action. I think it’’s fair to say our   budget exceeds our community raise goal.” ’ ”   It’s hard to say whether everything will really come   together by January 2019, but whenever the game gets released,   we’re excited to play  —   and learn while doing so. ” ’Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson is making a. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’