’  ’ ’   Before he became famous for his 2007 bestseller ”,” Tim Ferriss was an entrepreneur struggling   to make sense of what he wanted from life. ’ ’   There was a moment in 2004 when he reached a turning point, he   said in  in Vancouver. ’ ’   That year, a friend died of pancreatic cancer and the girlfriend   Ferriss planned on marrying broke up with him. He spent virtually   all of his time working on his nutritional supplement business,   using stimulants to stay awake and downers to go to sleep. ”It   was a disaster,” he said. ”I felt completely trapped.” ’ ’   He came across a quote from the ancient Roman Stoic philosopher   Seneca that deeply resonated with him: ”We suffer more in   imagination than in reality.” This led him to reading Seneca’’s   ”,”   and it was there that he came across the philosopher’’s exercise   ”premeditatio malorum,” the ”  of evils.” ’ ’   Ferriss made some minor adjustments to the exercise, and gave it   the more accessible name of ”” in contrast to    . He credits it with putting himself on a path to   success, and he said he’’s repeated it at least once per quarter   since. ’ ’’ ’   He explained the current iteration of his method to the TED   audience, and it involves just three pieces of paper and a pen. ’ ’   • Pinpoint ”What if. ..” decision that has been weighing   on you, filling you with anxiety. When Ferriss first tried the   exercise, the question was, ”What if I take my first vacation in   four years of my business and spend a month in London,   crashing at my friend’’s place?” ’ ’   • Take your first sheet of paper and divide it into three   columns, titled ”Define,” ”Prevent,” and ”Repair.” ’ ”   • In the Define column, write   things that you think could   go wrong if you answer your question in the affirmative. For   Ferriss, one of his fears was that   exposure to London’s   weather would trigger his depressive tendencies and make him   miserable. ” ’   • In the Prevent column, answer: ”What could I do to prevent each   of these bullets from happening, or, at the very least, decrease   the likelihood even a little bit?” For the example above, Ferriss   wrote that he could bring a portable light therapy machine that   worked for him and use it for 15 minutes every morning. ’ ’   • In the Repair column, answer for each point: ”If the     scenarios happen, what could I do to repair the damage even   a little bit, or who could I ask for help?” Using the   weather example, Ferriss wrote that he could always spend money   on another flight and a hotel and end his vacation somewhere   sunny in Europe, like Spain. ’ ’   On the second piece of paper, answer the question, ”What might be   the benefits of an attempt or a partial success?” in regards to   making a decision in the affirmative. ’ ’   Ferriss used a baseball metaphor to put this step into   perspective: Think of possible outcomes of a base hit, rather   than a home run. ’ ’   Spend   minutes jotting down ideas. ’ ’   Use your third sheet of paper to answer the question: ”If I avoid   this action or decision and actions and decisions like it, what   will my life life look like in say, six months, 12 months, three   years?” ’ ’   Think of all the   effects of inaction on areas like   emotional, physical, and financial  . ’ ’   Spend as much time as necessary to put your thoughts on paper,   since Ferriss considers this to be the most important step   of the exercise. ’ ’   He said that by the time he finished the exercise for the first   time, he realized that he had no choice but to extricate himself   from his business, and he ultimately went on a       trip around the world that inspired him to write ”The     Workweek.” ’ ’   Ferriss noted that sometimes our fears turn out to be     rather than the product of our imagination, ”But you   shouldn’’t conclude that without first putting them under a   microscope.” ’ ’   You can watch . ’ ’Before he became famous for his 2007. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’