’  ’ ’   An independent, bipartisan federal commission tasked with   advising President Donald Trump and Congress on     issues approved a   investigation that will examine how   the Trump administration’’s ”current budgets and staffing levels   allow civil rights offices to perform,”  reported   Friday. ’ ’   The United States Commission on Civil Rights unanimously approved   an investigation, citing concerns about the impacts that budget   cuts and staffing shortages could have on agencies designed to   uphold   protections ’ ’   The investigation was prompted after funding and personnel cuts   were announced, some as high as 23% in departments that oversee     issues. ’ ’   ”These proposed cuts would result in a dangerous reduction of   civil rights enforcement across the country, leaving communities   of color, LGBT people, older people, people with disabilities,   and other marginalized groups exposed to greater risk of   discrimination,” the statement said. ’ ’   ”For 60 years, Congress has charged the Commission to monitor   Federal civil rights enforcement and recommend necessary change,”   said commission chair Catherine Lhamon. ”We take this charge   seriously, and we look forward to reporting our findings to   Congress, the President, and the American people.” ’ ’’ ’   The United States Commission on Civil Rights listed seven   entities for their concern, including the Department of   Education, Department of Justice, Department of Housing and Urban   Development, and the Environmental Protection Agency. ’ ’   ”Actions by the [Department of Justice] indicate it is minimizing   its civil rights efforts,” the statement said. ”For example, a   majority of the Commission criticized DOJ’s decision to site   Immigrations and Customs Enforcement officers in courthouses as a   dangerous impediment to access to justice for all Americans.” ’ ’   Ultimately, the power to enforce any changes made after the   investigation will be in the hands of Congress, according to NBC.   The commission is scheduled to report their findings at the end   of 2019. ’ ’An independent, bipartisan federal commission. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’