’  ’ ”   President Emmanuel Macron won a commanding majority in France’s   parliamentary election on Sunday, sweeping aside traditional   parties and securing a powerful mandate for   reforms. ” ”   The result, based on official figures and pollster projections,   redraws France’s political landscape, humiliating the Socialist   and conservative parties that alternated in power for decades   until Macron’s election in May. ” ”   Three pollsters projected that Macron’s Republic on the Move and   its Modem allies would win 355 to 365 seats in the   lower   house, fewer than previously forecast. ” ’   They predicted the conservative Republicans and their allies   would form the largest opposition bloc with 125 to 131 seats,   while the Socialist Party, in power for the past five years, and   its partners would secure 41 to 49 seats, their lowest ever in   the postwar Fifth Republic. ’ ’   Official figures with 90 seats still left to be decided showed   LREM had already won its majority. ’ ’   ”This is an opportunity for France. One year ago no one would   have imagined such a political renewal,” Prime Minister Edouard   Philippe said in a statement. ’ ’   Voter turnout was projected to be a record low at about 42%. The   high abstention rate underlines that Macron will have to tread   carefully with reforms in a country with muscular trade unions   and a history of street protests that have forced many a past   government to dilute new legislation. ’ ’   Government spokesman Christophe Castaner said it signalled voters   ”had not wanted to hand Macron a blank cheque.” ’ ”   Nevertheless, the scale of victory gives the president, a     Union centrist, a strong platform from which to make   good on campaign promises to revive France’s fortunes by cleaning   up politics and relaxing regulations that investors say shackle   the euro zone’s   economy. ” ”   Victory for Macron, France’s youngest leader since Napoleon,   marks the routing of the old political class. ” ’   Having never held elected office, he seized on the growing   resentment toward a political elite perceived as out of touch,   and on public frustration at its failure to create jobs and spur   stronger growth, to win the presidency. ’ ’   His   party then filled the political space created by the   disarray within the Socialist Party and the Republicans, with   Sunday night capping a sequence of events that a year ago looked   improbable. ’ ’   ”Tonight, the collapse of the Socialist Party is beyond doubt.   The president of the Republic has all the powers,”     Cambadelis said after announcing he would step   down as Socialist Party chief. ’ ’  ’ ”   He said the party would have to rebuild itself from the top down.   Cambadelis was knocked out of the running for parliament in last   week’s first round of voting. ” ’     leader Marine Le Pen won a seat in the National   Assembly for the first time. Her National Front party clinched at   least eight seats in total, a result she celebrated but which may   disappoint supporters who a month ago dreamed of entering the   Elysee. ’ ’   ”We are the only force of resistance to the dilution of France,   its social model and identity,” Le Pen said in a televised   address in her northern fiefdom of  . ’ ’   ”We shall fight with all our strength the harmful projects of the   government, which is only in place to implement the road map sent   by Brussels.” ’ ”   Francois Baroin, who led the Republicans’ campaign, said the   conservatives would emphasize their differences with Macron,   especially on taxes. ” ”   The scale of LREM’s projected win means Macron will enjoy an   absolute majority even without the support of alliance partner   Francois Bayrou and Modem, lending him a freer hand for reforms   and room for a government reshuffle should he choose to carry one   out. Modem currently has two ministers in the Cabinet. ” ’  ’ ”   Macron’s rivals went into the second round trying only to limit   the scale of the newcomer’s win. They urged voters not to allow   too much power to be concentrated in the hands of one party and   warned Macron’s MPs would be mere   who would     legislation. ” ’   It appeared the message had some impact. Opinion polls before the   vote had projected Macron could win as many as 470 seats. ’ ’     leader   Melenchon, who won his Marseille seat,   promised ”social resistance” to Macron’’s reform agenda and said   the high abstention rate meant the president lacked the   legitimacy to destroy the labour code. ’ ”   Melenchon’s resurgent France Unbowed and the Communist Party were   on course to win 26 to 30 seats. In a combative speech, which   contrasted sharply with the defeated tone of the Socialist Party,   Melenchon reached out to disappointed  . ” ’   ”It is France Unbowed which will call the country, when the   moment comes, to social resistance,” Melenchon said. ”I hereby   inform the new powers that not a foot of ground will be given up   in the labour law struggle.” ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Paris newsroom; Writing by Richard   Lough; Editing by Susan Fenton and Peter Cooney) ’ ’President Emmanuel Macron won a commanding. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’