’  ’ ’   Last year, the Russian government approved the renewals of   six trademarks for President Donald Trump that were about to   expire,  on Sunday. ’ ’   Four of those renewals were officially registered by Russia on   Election Day.  ’ ”   The Times found that the Kremlin approved applications for the   trademarks’ renewal beginning in April 2016 and ending in   December of that year, according to records maintained by   Rospatent, Russia’s government agency which oversees   intellectual property. ” ’   The trademarks were originally obtained between 1996 and 2007,   but they had gone unused. Each of the trademarks was granted a     extension in 2016, the investigation found.  ’ ’   Trump has repeatedly said that he has no remaining business   deals in or involving Russia.  ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The Times noted that nothing in the records maintained by   Rospatent indicates Trump was shown particular favor   when trademarks bearing his name were approved for renewal.   However, intellectual property law experts said that   renewals are not guaranteed and can be difficult to obtain   when trademarks have gone unused for a long period of time,   like Trump’s were.  ” ”   While it was renewing Trump’s trademarks in 2016, the Russian   government was also engaged in an active hacking campaign to   undermine the election. The US intelligence community concluded   with high confidence that Russian operatives specifically   targeted the Democratic National Committee and the Hillary   Clinton campaign in an effort to subvert Clinton’s candidacy   and propel   Trump to victory. Intelligence agencies   also confirmed that Russian hackers designed an elaborate   online fake news and disinformation campaign focused on   disseminating false information about Clinton in order to swing   votes toward Trump. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   In addition to investigating Russia’s role in meddling in the   2016 election, Congress and the FBI are also looking into any   potential collusion between Trump associates and the Kremlin to   hand Trump the presidency.  ” ”   The Russia probes picked up steam after Trump abruptly fired   former FBI director James Comey  —   who was spearheading the FBI’s   investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia  —   in early   May. A slew of media reports published after the fact raised   questions about Trump’s motivations in firing Comey, and legal   experts touched on the possibility that Trump may have  if he removed Comey specifically   because of the Russia investigation.  ” ’   Last week,  that FBI special counsel   Robert Mueller is investigating Trump for . In an apparent response to the report, Trump    on Friday,   ” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Then why did he say he was [under investigation]?” Todd asked.   ”I mean, was this just  ? Are we not to take him at his   word?” ’ ’   Sekulow insisted that Todd was ”reading more to the tweet than   what’’s there.” ’ ’A New York Times investigation found that. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’