’  ’ ”   LONDON  —   Brexit negotiations will begin on Monday   morning despite a widening Cabinet rift over Britain’s   negotiating aims and growing doubts about the future of prime   minister Theresa May. ” ’   Brexit Minister David Davis will this morning meet with chief EU   negotiator Michel Barnier in Brussels for the first day of   what he described as ”historic” talks that will set Britain on   the road to leaving the EU. ’ ’   ”Today marks the start of negotiations that will shape the future   of the European Union and the United Kingdom, and the lives of   our citizens,” he is expected to say. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”While there is a long road ahead, our destination is clear  —   a   deep and special partnership between the UK and the EU. A deal   like no other in history.” ’ ”   The early stages of the talks are expected to focus   on Britain’s ’divorce’ from the EU, the future of   EU citizens living in the UK, and the Northern Ireland border.   Talks on Britain’s future relationship with the bloc are to   be held back until later in the year. ” ’   The negotiations begin despite May yet failing to have agreed a   deal with the DUP to support her government’’s Queen’’s Speech next   week. It also comes as May faces open criticism from senior   Cabinet members about her failed election campaign and growing   pressure to drop her plans for a ”Hard Brexit,” which would see   Britain leave the EU Single Market and Customs Union. ’ ’   Both Davis and May remain committed to plans to crash out of the   EU if no deal is secured in two years, saying that ”no deal is   better than a bad deal.” ’ ’   May’’s foreign secretary Boris Johnson has insisted   previously that such an outcome would be ”perfectly ok.” ’ ’   However,  to the government   pleading with it to soften its approach and ”put the economy   first” in talks. ’ ’   The letter from the British Chambers of Commerce, Confederation   of British Industry, EEF, Federation of Small Businesses, and   Institute of Directors, calls on the government to accept   continued membership of the Single Market and Customs union until   any new trade deal is signed and implemented  —   a process that   trade  experts suggest could take up to a decade. ’ ’   A poll on Sunday also found . Survation found   that a majority of voters back staying in the Customs Union and   holding a second referendum on the final deal May secures   with the EU. ’ ’   May  faces ”civil war” inside her Cabinet, over whether   she should continue with her hardline position on Brexit. Senior   members are believed to want May to ditch her     negotiating stance. However, other senior figures have threatened   to force a vote of no confidence in her leadership if the   plans are watered down. ’ ’   May’’s chancellor Philip Hammond became the first    distanced himself from May’’s hardline position yesterday,   saying that crashing out of the EU without a deal would be ”very,   very bad” for Britain. ’ ”   In a scathing attack on May’s failed election   campaign, Hammond also told the Andrew Marr Show that he had   been prevented from selling the government’s record on the   economy. ” ’   ”It was a mistake for the campaign not to focus more on an area   where we have a great story to tell  —   our record on the economy,”   he said. “I think it was a mistake that we didn’t spend more time   and resources taking apart Jeremy Corbyn’s economic proposals and   his spending plans, which are frankly incredible and would do   enormous damage to this country, to our jobs, to our economy. I   think that was a mistake.” ’ ’   May has been told she has just over a week to recover her   position, or face a leadership challenge, according to a report   in the Sunday Times.  ’ ”   It comes as a new poll puts Labour three points ahead of the   Conservatives. According to the Survation poll, Labour has   44% of the public’s support, ahead of the Conservatives on 41%. ” ’ Survation Poll ’ ’   *Changes with 2017 general election.  ’ ’Brexit negotiations begin on Monday morning. ..’ ’’ ’’ ’’