’Ahead of the formal easing of international sanctions on Tehran set for the beginning of 2016, tensions have mounted.’ ”On Thursday, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani ordered his defense minister to expand’s missile program, inresponse to a US threat to impose  over a   testcarried out in October.” ’’ ’”As the US government is clearly still pursuing its hostile policies and illegal meddling . .. the armed forces need to quickly and significantly increase their missile capability,” Rouhani wrote in a letter to Defense Minister Hossein Dehghan, published on the state news agency IRNA.’ ’’ ’”As we have declared to the American government . ..’’s missile program has no connection to the (nuclear) agreement,” state television quoted Foreign Ministry spokesman Hossein Jaber Ansari as saying.’ ”The US began preparing the sanctions, which target nearly a dozen companies and individuals in, Hong Kong, and the United Arab Emirates for their suspected role in developing ’s missile program ” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’However, ’ ’’ ’Since the October 10 incident, Iran was criticized for conducting a   training exercise near a US aircraft carrier in the Gulf.’ ’’ ’”The naval forces of the Guards have not had any exercises in the Strait of Hormuz during the past week and the period claimed by the Americans for them to have launched missiles and rockets,” the Revolutionary Guard website quoted Ramezan Sharif, the Guard’’s spokesman, as saying.’ ’”The publication of such false news under the present circumstances is akin to psychological warfare,” Sharif said.’ ’ citing unnamed US military officials, said the Guard was conducting a   exercise and the US aircraft carrier Harry S. Truman came within about 1, 500 yards of a rocket as it entered the Gulf with other warships.’ ’Several Revolutionary Guard vessels fired the rockets ”in close proximity” of the warships and nearby merchant traffic ”after providing only 23 minutes of advance notification,” said Cmdr. Kyle Raines, spokesman for the US Central Command.’ ’”uncharacteristic of most interactions” between the US and Iranian navies, CNN .’ ’’ ’ian and US forces have clashed in the Gulf in the past, especially during   war in the 1980s after the 1979 Islamic revolution.’ ’ ’