A phone call to the office of Jeremy Travis, new in Washington: “The attorney general wants to talk with you. ” The attorney general of the United States at that moment, in 1994, would have been Janet Reno, and not long before, Mr. Travis had gone to work for her as director of the National Institute of Justice, an agency that conducts research for the Justice Department. Ms. Reno told him that she was sitting with one of her deputies, Mr. Travis recalled on Thursday, and they had just read a news article about the DNA exoneration of a man who had been on death row. “She said, ‘I have two questions,’” Mr. Travis said. “‘How many more are there like this? What can we learn from it? ’” It may not be immediately apparent how daring that inquiry was 22 years ago. DNA testing was then in its early days as a tool in criminal justice, and few people anticipated that prisoners would clamor to have old biological evidence retested in hopes of clearing their names. Moreover, hardly anyone was willing to say aloud that innocent people really were locked up. Politicians could not spend money fast enough on prisons. After a long climb in crime rates, the country was ratcheting up sentences. Bill Clinton had suspended his presidential campaign in 1992 so that he could be in Arkansas, where he was then the Democratic governor, for the execution of a murderer who had shot himself in the head and was so   that he asked prison guards to save the pecan pie from his last meal for him as he was being led to his lethal injection. Ms. Reno had read, though, about the exoneration of 16 people, including a former marine, Kirk Bloodsworth, who had been sent to death row in Maryland for the killing of a child on the strength of testimony by five eyewitnesses. At such a    moment, the notion that fallibility was poured into the foundation of the criminal justice system was startling and disruptive. Ms. Reno, who died this week at 78, was unafraid of looking directly at it. The first woman to hold the position of attorney general, she served eight years. “This is an illustrative story of how she fought for truth, and how she worked,” said Mr. Travis, who is now the president of John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York. Without Google or the rich resources of the modern web, the researchers working for Mr. Travis scoured reports from around the country. The Innocence Project in New York, the leading organization using DNA to overturn convictions, had some information, but it too was still in an embryonic phase. Still, the researchers found 28 cases of innocent people who had been wrongly convicted, and prepared a report, “Convicted by Juries, Exonerated by Science. ” DNA testing is practical only in a small fraction of cases, but the flaws it discloses in conventional investigative techniques  —   first documented in that report  —   are profound. The most important question is not how those innocent people got out of jail, but how they got into it. Eyewitness errors were a leading source of wrongful convictions, as were false confessions and junk forensic science. The report included commentaries by prosecutors, a police superintendent, and Peter J. Neufeld and Barry C. Scheck, the   of the Innocence Project, who wrote, “There is a strong scientific basis for believing these matters represent just the tip of a very deep and disturbing iceberg of cases. ” (Mr. Neufeld, Mr. Scheck and I later wrote a book on the subject.) At Ms. Reno’s request, the justice institute brought in panels of psychologists who had studied the working of human memory. “She stayed the whole day,” Mr. Travis said. The work led to new ways of asking witnesses to look at suspects and of recording complete interrogations, as well as greater rigor in laboratory practices and the preservation of evidence. Ms. Reno met many detectives in her home as a child  —   her father had been a police reporter in Florida  —   and for her, it was important that the public realized they were hardworking,   great people, said James Doyle, a lawyer and author who interviewed her for “True Witness,” a book about eyewitness procedures. That first report she commissioned on DNA exonerations looked fearlessly at the errors not just of police officers, but of a whole constellation of players in justice. “Ernest Hemingway once famously wrote that ‘all modern American literature comes from one book by Mark Twain, called ‘Huckleberry Finn,’” Mr. Doyle wrote on the Crime Report website. “It is not too much to say that all modern criminal justice reform can be traced to that pamphlet. ”