’’ ’Salesforce was one of the five tech companies that ”won” 2015, argues ’ ’It had skyrocketing revenue, and is on track to hit $10 billion in some not to distant future, CEO Marc Benioff keeps say.’ ’It started construction on a massive new skyscraper in San Francisco, opened new data centers around the world, is a worldwide icon of corporate giving and became a . And it became a force in the Silicon Valley ecosystem, being the top investor in   startups.’ ”But back in 2000, it was a    startup, spun out of a meeting that took place a few years earlier between Oracle CEO Larry Ellison, who was Marc Benioff’s boss at the time, and another key Oracle player, Evan Goldberg. Goldberg thought of the idea of software as a service,  and left to build a cloud financial app, NetSuite.” ”Benioff decided to do the same for sales tracking tools, known as customer relationship management (CRM). Like Goldberg, Benioff got Ellison’s blessing and some seed money. Ellison invested about $2 million of his own money to help found Salesforce. (In comparison, Ellison, through his venture companies, invested about $125 million into NetSuite and still owns 41% of the company, . )” ”Ellison also joined Salesforce’s board at the time. But things got rocky between Ellison and Benioff pretty fast.  Benioff describes how he wound up kicking Ellison off his board.” ”First step: in 2000, Oracle launched a direct competitor to Salesforce. You probably never heard of it. It was named  OracleSalesOnline. com, and to compete with Salesforce, Oracle let people use it for free. (Today, Oracle has a couple of cloud competitors to Salesforce’s    CRM app,  and )” ’So Ellison was competing with Benioff from the very start. The  Benioff about that. ’ ’Still, Benioff has always had respectful things to say about Ellison as a person. In that same interview in 2000, he likened Ellison to the Dalai Lama:’ ’However, Benioff doesn’’t shy away from slamming Ellison’’s company, Oracle, and saying its products and ”’ ’Meanwhile, Ellison continually says these days competitors. ’ ’So for the record, Oracle has viewed Salesforce as a competitor almost from the   just a short time after Ellison cut the check to help fund it.’