’Subscription models are incredibly popular.’ ’Look no further than Netflix, Amazon Prime, Dollar Shave Club, and Carnivore Club. It seems easy  —   sign up and you have a product each month, for a fixed price.’ ’But at the same time, many   retailers have come under fire for not having clear disclosures about their billing practices.’ ”And some companies, despite being seemingly transparent about the fact that they’re   make it exceedingly difficult for customers to cancel their memberships.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’In late October, however,  reported that the company would be audited. Bloomberg also reported that ; it was going to consider offering members the ability to unsubscribe online. Not being able to cancel memberships online was a huge issue with the company that  outlined in an initial report regarding the scandal.’ ”Still, some experts think that JustFab uses this model to optimize success, even if it’s misleading.” ’”I’ ’’ ’Hot lingerie startup Adore Me has also received heat for its billing policies; it currently has an F rating with the .’ ’The company claims it makes it clear to consumers that they’’re signing up for a ”VIP Membership. ”’ ’Adore Me lets customers skip a billing cycle, but they have to make sure they select to ”shop” or ”skip” by the fifth of month. Should members fail to do either, their credit cards get charged, and in turn, they get store credit to use at any time.’ ”Adore Me recently added a policy wherein members can get an automatic refund for the most recent month’s charges, without having to deal with customer service.” ’Upon cancellation  —  which is, according to reviews on the Better Business Bureau, an arduous process  —   members lose their credits. (’ ”Adore Me’s CEO, Morgan   maintains that the retailer is completely transparent and discloses everything, through consistent emails, SMS messages, push notifications, and a pamphlet that members receive with their first package.” ”It seems that Adore Me  —   and other criticized subscription companies  —   aren’t out to dupe consumers. But the hoops through which shoppers have to jump to get out prove that there are some improvements that can undoubtedly be made.” ’’ ”That’s not to say that subscriptions are entirely faulty.” ’ At the end of 2013,  suggested that   model was a hot ecommerce trend for the following year.’ ’And there has been  of  for consumers to choose from  —   from grooming boxes to boxes with artisanal beer to boxes for dogs to boxes of makeup samples.’ ’’ ’And Gregory Lowe II, CEO of Fitbox  —   an    athleisure subscription box that aims to challenge Fabletics  —   says that there’’s another perk: getting to know customers. ”We ’ ”Still, Adore Me’s CEO Morgan   chalks up the complaints  —   which he told Business Insider pale in comparison to positive reviews  —   to the fact that some people don’t know how subscription services operate.” ’’