’After a  on Sunday afternoon out of Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, SpaceX attempted to land the first stage of its     Falcon 9 rocket for a second time in a row, but the attempt was unsuccessful.’ ’”Unfortunately we are not standing upright on a drone ship,” ’ ’ for the first footage of the aftermath.’ ’While the landing attempt was not successful, SpaceX achieved its primary goal, which was to deploy its cargo into orbit  —   the   weather satellite, designed to measure ocean height across the globe and track sea level rise.’ ’The problem with the landing was a technical issue concerning one of the landing legs: ’ ’’ ” ’t’t’tAfter further data review, stage landed softly but leg 3 didn’t lockout. Was within 1. 3 meters of droneship center’t’t” ’’ ’After successfully boosting the second stage and its cargo off the planet, the first stage booster turned itself around for   performing a series of engine burns to slow down. Upon descent grid fins and GPS tracking helped guide the rocket to a drone ship floating 186 miles south of the launch site in the middle of the Pacific.’ ”It sounds like everything was working well  —   the engine burns, the descent, and the navigation  —   up until the rocket landed on the platform. One of the legs didn’t lock into place. Without all four legs working, the    rocket wasn’t stable, and after touch down, it tipped over.” ”One of the earlier suspicions was that the rocket was coming in too fast (see SpaceX founder Elon Musk’s tweet below from right after touch down was expected) but upon further investigations it looks like touch down was good. If the leg had locked as it was supposed to, the landing might have been a success.” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tFirst stage on target at droneship but looks like hard landing; broke landing leg. Primary mission remains nominal →  ’ ”To be fair, Sunday’s landing attempt is  than last month’s because it happened on a floating target: One of SpaceX’s   autonomous drone ships.” ’’ ” ’t’t’tDefinitely harder to land on a ship. Similar to an aircraft carrier vs land: much smaller target area, that’s also translating & rotating. ’t’t” ’Last year, SpaceX attempted this same landing twice, and did not succeed in retrieving the rocket. Both times the first stage exploded after reaching the platform, shown below:’ ”Musk said that landing rockets on drone ships is critical for   missions, which refer to mainly commercial satellite missions, wherein the Falcon 9 has to transport its payload higher above Earth’s surface than it would on a cargo transport mission to the International Space Station, for example.” ’Commercial satellite missions make up a  of SpaceX launches, therefore, we can likely expect to see more rocket landing attempts like this in the future.’