’’ ”Most people believe that Apple’s recent move to downgrade its mobile advertising product, iAd, is a sign that iAd failed to gain traction with advertisers and that Apple has officially stopped trying to compete as a mobile ad business.” ’Apple is getting rid of the iAd sales force and will let the feature exist only as an automated   product.’ ’Over the weekend, Daniel Eran Dilger wrote a long, interesting column on AppleInsider that contained  (the search ad business that is the core of Alphabet, the newly named Google parent company).’ ’Dilger believes that the end of iAd as an Apple priority shows that ”Apple is ready to stop playing in ads where Google has a home field advantage, and instead begin to leverage its entrenched position in hardware in order to starve Google’’s core business into irrelevance by targeting the valuable foundation of Internet ads. ”’ ”Apple and Google are in different businesses, of course. Apple makes devices, while Google makes software. It’s not obvious why Apple would care about the fortunes of Google. And Dilger is one of the most   bloggers in the field.” ”But Dilger cited an old note from analysts at Goldman Sachs, published last year. Business Insider obtained a copy of the note, dated April 6. It contains this description of how much revenue Goldman believes Apple supplies to Google. About 75% of all Google’s mobile revenue comes from people using Apple devices, according to Goldman analyst Heather Bellini and her team:” ”Google’s   2014 revenue was $66 billion (£46. 1 billion). So about 13. 5% of Google’s revenue comes from Apple, on those numbers. Google is on course to book north of $70 billion in revenue for 2015. Google’s business is becoming more   as time goes by.” ’Apple has made a couple of other moves that suggest it is downgrading the kind of advertising that Google is dependent on:’ ’Dilger’’s theory is that as Apple owns the richest, most lucrative users, the company now wants to give them as much   privacy as possible. ”Poor neighborhoods are emblazoned with billboards and ads. Rich neighborhoods are not,” he writes. ”Advertising is increasingly restricted in neighborhoods as land values climb. There’’s a general revolt against invasive advertising the higher you climb in sophistication and wealth. ”’ ’In this scenario, it is as if Apple is trying to teach the marketplace that ads are for the poor losers on Android, and people (with money) who want a superior,   experience should come to Apple.’ ”In this context, it is interesting that Apple probably provides 13. 5% of Google’s entire revenue. And that Apple can cut much of that off if it tweaks iOS to block more ads or removes Google as the default from its software. While a loss of $9 billion (£6. 3 billion) in revenue would not kill Google  —   Android still owns about 80% of the world market for phones and the search ads they serve  —   it would severely cripple  where iOS also dominates, with 77% of customers, according to Custora:” ’’ ’So while the theory that Apple wants to ”starve” Google into irrelevance is   it is noteworthy that Apple can hurt Google severely, if it wants to.’