’’ ’  mogul Donald Trump just embraced his threat to boycott the Fox News primary debate on Thursday.’ ’At a   press conference, the Republican presidential   stressed that he ”probably” would be skipping the   event.’ ’”I’’m going to be making a decision with Fox, but I probably won’’t bother doing the debate,” Trump said in Marshalltown, Iowa.’ ’His campaign later released a statement firmly declaring that Trump ”will not be participating in the Fox News debate.” He will instead host an event on behalf of veterans that night, his press release said.’ ’”I’’m not a fan of Megyn Kelly. I think she’’s a   reporter. I think she, frankly, is not good at what she does. And I think they could do a lot better than Megyn Kelly,” Trump said at the press conference, later criticizing her as a ”total lightweight. ”’ ”Earlier in the day, Trump  asking his followers if he should do the debate. He attached an Instagram video in which he said Kelly couldn’t be a fair moderator.” ”Fox News CEO Roger Ailes issued a statement defending Kelly, who he said would definitely be moderating his network’s   debate. And a Fox representative also fired off a sarcastic response that wondered how a potential President Trump would expect world leaders to treat him fairly:” ’’ ’Trump criticized Fox’’s ”wise guy” statement at his press conference.’ ’He said:’ ’”Let’’s see how they do with the ratings,” Trump said of the debate without his presence. ”Let’’s see how many people watch,” he added.’ ’Fox News issued a lengthy statement saying that the network ”can’’t give in to terrorizations toward any of our employees,” and that ”Trump is still welcome at Thursday night’’s debate,” where he would be treated fairly:’ ”Trump has been launching raging attacks against Kelly since August, when she was one of three moderators at the first   event. Kelly infuriated Trump at the time by asking  about disparaging comments he’s made about women’s looks.” ”Fox News  that the three moderators of that debate  —   Kelly and Fox anchors Bret Baier and Chris Wallace  —   would be returning to moderate the network’s January debate. Kelly has declined to directly respond to Trump.” ’In his statement released Tuesday night, Trump said that instead of being at the debate, he would ”host an event in Iowa to raise money for the Veterans and Wounded Warriors, who have been treated so horribly by our     politicians. ”’