’’ ’Racial stereotypes may be playing a role in the US opioid overdose epidemic, according to a leading expert on opioid addiction.’ ’The rate of white Americans dying annually from drug overdoses has roughly doubled from 2002 to 2014, while the rate of black Americans and Hispanics who die from drug overdoses has remained almost unchanged over that same time frame, according to recently released data .’ ’Dr. Andrew Kolodny, the chief medical officer for The Phoenix House and a leading expert on opioid addiction, told Business Insider these trends might have a direct connection to some doctors allowintereotypes to influence the way they prescribe opioid pain killers.’ ’”What’’s happening is we’’re overexposing whites to prescription opioids,” he said. ”Doctors prescribe narcotics more cautiously to black patients. It appeared the doctor may be more worried about addiction or diversion of the pills onto the black market if the patient was black and if the patient is white, they’’re overprescribing.” ’ ”While it’s impossible to know doctors’ reasons for prescribing certain medications  —   and individual doctors of course vary significantly in their background and world view  —   studies have shown that some doctors are less likely to prescribe opioid painkillers to black patients, while other research has suggested that black patients may be less likely to report serious pain.” ’A  in The American Journal of Public Health found that opioid painkillers were far less likely to be prescribed to black patients than to whites for migraines or back pain. And a  from the journal Pediatrics found that black patients were much less likely than white patients to be prescribed those painkillers for abdominal pain.’ ’ from the journal Clinical Orthopedics and Related Research noted that some black patients may underreport the severity of their pain. Still, the study acknowledged that physicians were a major contributor to the racial disparities in the way pain is treated, ”reflect[ing] ’ ”Whatever the causes of the disparity, it’s clear far more white people are dying from opioid overdoses today.” ’’ ’Broken down by certain age groups, the data is even more staggering.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”In 2014, white Americans between the age of   were dying by overdose at a rate that’s roughly three times what it was in 2002, while the death rate for black Americans and Hispanics went relatively unchanged over that   period.” ’White Americans between 15 and 24 years old were roughly six times more likely to die from a drug overdose in 2014 than black Americans and about four times as likely to die than Hispanics. ’ ’For white Americans between the age of 35 and 44 as well as between 45 and 54, a large uptick in the death rate from drug overdoses was also experienced between 2002 and 2014. Meanwhile, the rate of drug overdose deaths for black Americans and Hispanics remained unchanged. ’ ’More than 47, 000 people died of drug overdoses in 2014, .’