’’ ’The   market needs to see a   solid rebound soon, or things are going to get a lot worse.’ ’One measure of just how extreme panic among   investors has gotten is the ’ ’The spread on   bonds outside the energy sector has widened 115 basis points since December, and now stands at 667 basis points, according to Deutsche Bank strategists Oleg Melentyev and Daniel Sorid.’ ’Yields across the entire   market stand at 770 basis points, they said.’ ’Meanwhile, the spreads on   bonds outside the energy sector have moved 21 basis points in the same time.’ ’It’’s also a more volatile period for the market than during the ”Taper Tantrum” in   ’ ’Now there are reasons to believe that the market has be oversold. My colleague Julia La Roche reported earlier on  saying that there is value to be had.’ ’That could lead to a   bounce, according to analysts. But that rebound needs to have legs, or the market is going to fall harder and faster than it has up until now.’ ’”HY market needs this bounce to take place soon and to be real, with legs to support it, or else its prospects begin to dim fast from here,” the analysts said.’ ’Here is Deutsche Bank:’ ’The strategists base this argument on history. There have only been five instances where the spreads in the   market have reached levels of 650 to 700 basis points, and in three of those it moved wider to 900 to 1, 000 basis points within a couple of months.’ ’Now on the two occasions where it rebounded quickly and convincingly  —   September 1998 and October 2011  —   the market was being driven by ”an overhang of systemic risk,” as Deutsche Bank puts it.’ ”In 2011, for example, the eurozone crisis and the potential for a US government shutdown were weighing on investors’ minds. In 1998, it was Russia’s default, the Asian currency crisis, and the failure of   Capital Management.” ’’ ’”Compare these descriptions to present day’’s environment: we believe that it lacks a singular systemic issue that distorts the market’’s ability to price benchmark risk premiums,” People would say China or oil here, but remember  —   those are symptoms of normal cyclical slowdown patterns, and not sources of systemic concerns. ”’ ’What that means is that there is a good chance the   market could follow the three occasions where the market moved even wider.’ ’They wrote:’