WASHINGTON  —   President Obama said on Monday that he had urged   Donald J. Trump to reach out to minority groups, women and others who were alienated by his campaign, during the president’s first news conference since Mr. Trump won the election in a stunning upset that has imperiled Mr. Obama’s legacy. “There are certain things that make for good sound bites but don’t always translate into good policy, and that’s something that I think that he and his team will wrestle with,” Mr. Obama said in the White House briefing room. “I did say to him, as I’ve said publicly, that because of the nature of the campaigns and the bitterness and the ferocity of the campaigns, that it’s really important to send some signals of unity, and to reach out to minority groups, or women, or others that were concerned about the tenor of the campaign, and I think that’s something that he will want to do. ” Mr. Obama also said he thought that Mr. Trump was entering office with fewer set policy ideas than other  . “I don’t think he is ideological,” Mr. Obama said. “I think ultimately he is pragmatic. ” Mr. Obama, who during the campaign called Mr. Trump temperamentally unfit and dangerously unqualified to be president, has since said his priority is to lead an orderly transition of power to help Mr. Trump succeed for the good of the country. He sidestepped a question about Mr. Trump’s actions since his victory, including his selection on Sunday of Stephen K. Bannon, a media mogul whose website, Breitbart. com, has promoted white nationalist, racist and   views, as his chief White House strategist and senior counselor. “Without copping out, I think it’s fair to say that it would not be appropriate for me to comment” on Mr. Trump’s personnel decisions, Mr. Obama said. The president remarked last week that Mr. Trump’s comments and behavior had been more statesmanlike since the election, saying that he had been “encouraged” by the change in tone. Since then, the   has used Twitter to complain about postelection protests against him and object to the way The New York Times has covered him. Mr. Trump’s elevation of Mr. Bannon, who was a top adviser to the campaign, has drawn scathing criticism from Democrats and some Republicans who warn that the   is placing a divisive figure with fringe views deep inside the West Wing. White House officials say Mr. Obama has not changed his view of Mr. Trump since the campaign this fall, when he condemned Mr. Trump as a bigot who had cozied up to white supremacists and could not be trusted with the nuclear codes. But Mr. Obama has told the American public that he believes the will of the voters should be respected. During a      meeting on Thursday in the Oval Office, the president tutored Mr. Trump, who has no government policy or elective experience, on a wide range of domestic and foreign policy matters he will have to deal with on his first day in office. Mr. Obama held the news conference just before departing for a weeklong trip to Greece, Germany and Peru  —   his final scheduled trip abroad as president  —   where he expected to face questions from anxious American allies. For months, Mr. Obama assured the allies that Mr. Trump would not win the White House. Now, he said on Monday, he will tell European allies that they should not fear for the future of NATO under a Trump presidency. In the Oval Office conversation on Thursday, Mr. Obama said, Mr. Trump “expressed a great interest in maintaining our core strategic relationships, and so one of the messages I will be able to deliver is his commitment to NATO and the   alliance. ”