’’ ”On Tuesday’s earnings call, Apple CEO Tim Cook spent an unusual amount of time  for the company’s middling performance.” ’He blamed economic downturns in important geographic areas:’ ’He blamed weakening currencies in a lot of countries, which make Apple products more expensive there:’ ’He even alluded to falling oil prices in the answer to a question about whether Apple would keep investing in China and other markets at the same pace (emphasis added):’ ’(. )’ ”But there’s a more obvious problem, too: Apple hasn’t had a new hit product since the iPad in 2010.” ”And that product, which was supposed to be the third leg of the stool for Apple’s   growth  —   alongside the Mac and the iPhone  —   has been shrinking like crazy. Unit sales have dropped every single quarter for the last two years. Apple released the iPad Pro in November, but it  at all.” ’’ ”The decline of the iPad could’ve been overlooked as long as the iPhone juggernaut kept churning.” ’But Apple may finally be topping out there, too:’ ’’ ’On the call, Cook acknowledged what many analysts had already predicted  —   that iPhone sales ”will decline” in the March quarter.’ ’Maybe the iPhone 7 will be  and rescue Apple again, like the iPhone 6 did the last time Apple was in this kind of doldrums.’ ”But I’m skeptical. The iPhone 6 met   customer demand for a phone with a larger screen. Apple looked at Samsung’s success selling phones with larger screens, wisely cast aside Steve Jobs’ former ruling that the iPhone’s   screen was perfect, and boom  —   sales took off.” ”Where’s the unmet demand this time? What are people buying from competitors that Apple doesn’t offer?” ’This is the maturity of the smartphone market. When everybody who can afford a smartphone has one, nobody  —   not even Apple  —   will be able to speed up the natural replacement cycle of every two or three years.’ ’By the way, Mac sales also went negative for the first time since  :’ ’’ ”The Apple Watch is not the hit Apple needed. Apple didn’t release sales figures for it, except to say that December was its best quarter ever, but the anecdotal evidence is pretty overwhelming. I live and work in the geekiest, most   city in the US, but I never see anybody wearing an Apple Watch.” ”It may take off eventually as a link between a   —   the iPod was a   at first, too  —   but it’s going to take awhile. Until Apple releases sales figures, we won’t know.” ’Same thing with Apple TV: nice product, slowly growing sales every quarter, but not particularly material to earnings. It’’s lumped with the Watch and Beats headphones in the ”Other” category, which delivered $4. 3 billion in revenue out of Apple’’s $75. 9 billion in total.’ ”So what’s the next big thing? Cook hinted that cloud services might be the area of investment for Apple: ” ” which could offer smaller bundles of TV channels that people really want for a cheaper price than cable TV. But Apple needs to finish signing the necessary content deals, or maybe . The future of TV may be coming, and Apple may deliver it, but it’s not here yet.” ”Plus, Apple’s record with services is bad. Apple Maps still isn’t as good as Google Maps. Siri works right about half the time. Also, iCloud is confoundingly frustrating  —   I just had a problem updating my iPhone software because my iCloud storage was full to capacity and they wanted me to buy more. I wasn’t even aware I’d turned it on. And Apple Music is a .” ”So I’m not convinced that Apple has the chops to deliver a   online service  —   it never has. Great hardware, occasionally brilliant software, an unparalleled retail experience. But online services? Not so much.” ’’ ”Don’t get me wrong: Apple is not in trouble. It just  of any company in history. It has more than $200 billion in cash and investments sitting on its balance sheet. More than  right now, and Apple can theoretically sell services and downloads to all of them. It will continue to iterate on its existing hit products, particularly the iPhone, to keep people upgrading every two or three releases.” ”But for a company to keep growing at the rate Apple grew during the last decade, it can’t just keep reworking the same old classics. It has to deliver new hits, too.”