’’ ’Google parent company Alphabet has .’ ”The company beat on the top and bottom lines, sending the stock up more than 8%   though it’s now hovering at around 5% up.” ’Here are the most important numbers:’ ’This was the first quarter in which Alphabet broke up its quarterly results into two categories: ”Google” and ”Other Bets. ”’ ’The company ended up proving to : That it’’s showing ”discipline” with its moonshots while its core business continues to grow nicely. ’ ’Other Bets revenue, which includes projects like   cars and   balloons, was $448 million with operating losses of $3. 56 billion.’ ’For perspective, Alphabet says that revenue was $327 million with operating losses of $1. 9 billion in 2014.’ ”Analysts had been expecting losses between $1. 5 billion and $5 billion for Other Bets, so this falls within that range. On the earnings call, CFO Ruth Porat highlighted Alphabet’s connected home business, Nest,   internet business, Fiber, and its   business, Verily, as the main drivers of revenue in Other Bets. Fiber, she said, was the costliest project.” ’Other important numbers:’ ’YouTube falls within websites revenue, and in the earnings call CFO Ruth Porat attributed YouTube, mobile search, and programmatic as being the big drivers of its revenue growth, with mobile the biggest driver overall.’ ”Here’s a look at Google’s revenue vs. the Other Bets revenue:” ’’ ”Here’s a look at the company’s operating expenses:” ’’ ”Alphabet’s headcount rose to 61, 814, up from 53, 600 in Q4 2014  —   and 59, 976 last quarter  —   primarily because of the addition of engineers and project managers. Total capital expenditures for the quarter were $2. 1 billion, down from $3. 55 billion   . The majority of that capex goes to Google, Porat said on the call.” ’Operating cash flow was $6. 4 billion with free cash flow of $4. 3 billion.’ ’Here are some other highlights from the call:’ ”Porat said that Google’s   operating expenses were $6. 6 billion, up 14%    primarily driven by R&D expense, particularly from Other Bets.” ’When talking about Google revenue, she said that YouTube advertising was growing at a ”very significant rate” and that mobile search around the holiday season drove revenue momentum.’ ’In terms of ”Other Bets,” she said that a lot of Google’’s investment went to funding Fiber, its   internet efforts. For revenue, she said that Other Bets was primarily driven by Nest, Fiber, and Verily.’ ’”My main point here is that we remain on a journey and it is still early days,” she says. ”We are working diligently to build additional businesses that create   revenues, profits, and value. ”’ ”She also said, however, that some of Alphabet’s biggest moonshots are actually within Google itself, highlighting efforts like machine learning, its cloud business, virtual reality, and emerging markets.” ”For investors, that means that they shouldn’t expect Alphabet to stop investing money in Google.” ’Google CEO Sundar Pichai says that this quarter Gmail joined the list of Google products with over 1 billion users. Others with over a billion users are Search, Android, Maps, Chrome, YouTube, and Google Play.’ ”Pichai also highlighted two of Google’s main goals: to bring its technical strengths to all of its products and to make sure it’s solving big problems.” ’He also gave an update on YouTube, saying that people watch ”hundreds of millions of hours” on it every day. Facebook just announced in its earnings that people watch 100 million hours every day.’ ’Of Google Play, he said that spend per buyer grew by more than 30% globally compared to 2014, and that there’’s ”great buzz” at Google around the cloud business. Google Cloud Platform is already used by more than 4 million applications.’ ’”We’’re becoming very competitive,” he said, continuing, ”I expect to get significant traction in 2016. ”’ ’When asked about YouTube and its effect on    Porat said that TruView ads on YouTube would continue to affect the CPC. But it’’s also ”still early innings” for YouTube and that the company is continuing to try to get larger offline budgets onto YouTube  —   aka, stealing TV ad dollars.’ ’She also said that, generally, CPC is decreasing simply because the number of clicks is increasing so much.’ ’”The CPC trend represents the fact that the denominator is growing faster than the numerator,” she said.’