Columbia University’s wrestling team, which bills itself as the nation’s oldest intercollegiate program, has had its season suspended by the university while officials investigate text messages sent by team members that included the frequent use of racist, misogynistic and homophobic terms. On Monday, Columbia released a statement saying that the university’s athletic department “has decided that Columbia wrestlers will not compete until we have a full understanding of the facts on which to base the official response to this disturbing matter. ” A university official confirmed late Monday that the team was still practicing, which raised the possibility that the season would continue once the investigation was completed. Columbia withdrew from a meet on Sunday at Binghamton after the university announced it would have “zero tolerance in its athletics programs for the group messaging and texts sent by several members of the men’s varsity wrestling team,” messages that the university described as “appalling. ” The team’s next meet is scheduled for this Sunday at the New York State championships at Cornell, but Monday’s announcement made it unclear if the team would make the trip. Screengrabs of the texts were first published Thursday by Bwog, an independent,   Columbia news website. The lewd texts were sent over the last three years by wrestling team members through the messaging app GroupMe, Bwog reported. The revelations at Columbia came one week after the Harvard men’s soccer team’s season was canceled after The Harvard Crimson, the university’s student newspaper, reported that players on that team had a history of creating sexually explicit “scouting reports” about members of Harvard’s women’s soccer team. At Columbia, which in recent years has been at the center of a nationwide discussion on how colleges handle sexually aggressive behavior, some students wanted the university to take a similar stance if the accusations against the wrestling team were substantiated. “Seeing that dialogue happening behind closed doors with our classmates and our peers was very, very shocking,” Claire Fry, a Columbia sophomore, said Sunday, adding that she hoped canceling Sunday’s   meet was “a first step and not the end of the discussion. ” On Friday and Saturday, students protested outside the fraternity house of Kappa Delta Rho, which counts wrestlers among its membership. A Change. org petition calling for the expulsion of wrestlers had 875 supporters Monday evening. Other students were planning to spread fliers throughout campus Monday to “protest the culture that permeates Columbia’s men’s athletics teams,” according to the description of a Facebook group. Almost 500 students were listed as interested in or planning to attend the event. Rachel Deal, a junior and Bwog’s editor in chief, said that some athletes in Kappa Delta Rho who were not wrestlers were “really upset with the comments” and “personally hurt” by the language used. “That made me pretty hopeful that it isn’t as much of a culture on other teams,” Deal said. James Fast, a sophomore who is Bwog’s publisher, said he was encouraged by the university’s quick response and its investigation, including its decision Thursday to cancel the wrestling team’s participation in its first match. Deal and Fast said they received the text messages from an anonymous source early last week. They said that Bwog had additional screengrabs that were not published because they contained targeted insults against specific students. “They were sent to us by an anonymous tipster who felt this conversation had no longer become entertainment,” Fast said. The university’s statement last week called the language used in the texts “appalling” and said they were “at odds with the core values of the university, violate team guidelines and have no place in our community. ” Columbia’s wrestling coach, Zach Tanelli, and Peter Pilling, the university’s athletic director, have not been made available for interviews. Columbia and Harvard are not the only universities dealing with the exchange of controversial messages in what members thought were private group chats. Last week, black students at the University of Pennsylvania were unknowingly added to a GroupMe chat where racial slurs and lynching images proliferated. It led to an F. B. I. investigation, and a student at the University of Oklahoma was suspended for being involved in the chat.