”Despite the Bank of Japan (BOJ)  and hints from the European Central Bank (ECB) that it may cut interest rates even deeper into negative territory as soon as next month, it’s done very little to weaken the yen and euro against the US dollar in recent weeks.” ’Indeed, the US dollar index, a broad measure on US dollar strength that has the euro and yen as its largest weightings, closed at a   low overnight, extending its decline from Dec 2 last year to 4. 5%.’ ’While diminished expectations for further US rate hikes this year contributed to the strength in the yen and euro, lowering   differentials between the US and other nations, there is another factor, significantly more influential than rate differentials, that contributed to the move: the huge current account surpluses run by both Japan and Eurozone.’ ”That’s the view of Richard Grace, the CBA’s chief currency and   strategist, who suggests that factor alone largely explains why negative   policies from the BOJ and ECB, among others, failed to weaken their currencies.” ’”The Eurozone, Switzerland, Japan and Sweden all have negative policy interest rates,” said Grace in a research note released overnight. ”Yet all these countries’’ exchange rates are stronger than at the time of the most recent   deepest cut into negative policy interest rates.’ ’”The main reason why this is occurring is because current account balances are a stronger   driver of exchange rates than are interest rate differentials. ”’ ’The chart below, supplied by the CBA, reveals the   cuts into negative   territory implemented by central banks.’ ’Grace notes that a current account surplus simply means that the savings of a nation are larger than its investment, eliminating the need to attract capital from offshore markets. This, generally, means that interest rates are generally lower than those in other nations.’ ’As a consequence, Grace suggests that the main goal of negative   policy from central banks is to encourage greater investment and inflation using domestic savings, not to place downward pressure on their currencies.’ ’”When GDP growth and inflation are low in the local economy, official central bank interest rates may be lowered into negative territory in an effort to stimulate investment and local inflation,” says Grace.’ ’He continued:’ ’That view certainly fits with the price action seen recent months. In unison with fund repatriation to these markets, given recent   volatility and diminished US   expectations, it does a long way to explaining why the euro and yen have been strengthening lately.’ ’Despite the Bank of Japan (BOJ) adopting a. ..’