’’ ’The first primaries in the nation have wrapped up.’ ”Democratic presidential candidate and Sen. Bernie Sanders ( ) and Republican business mogul Donald Trump have been declared the respective winners of the each party’s New Hampshire primary  —   the first of the 2016 election season.” ’With more than 75% of precincts reporting, Sanders is ahead of f by a 60%   39% margin in the Democratic primary, per the Associated Press.’ ’On the Republican side, Trump has roughly 34% of the vote while the   finisher, Ohio Gov. John Kasich (R) had more than 16%. The Republicans are bunched up between third and fifth, with Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) and Sen. Marco Rubio ( ) running in that order, all with roughly 11% of the vote with more than 75% of precincts reporting, according to the AP.’ ’11:16 p. m. ET  —   Here are the Republican and Democratic standings with more than 75% of precincts reporting, per the AP:’ ’Republican:’ ’Democratic:’ ’10:58 p. m. ET  —   Cruz touted his strong showing in New Hampshire. ’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tThe real winner is the grassroots who propelled us to a victory in Iowa and a far stronger outcome in New Hampshire than anyone predicted. ’t’t’ ’10:52 p. m. ET  —   Bush told supporters that New Hampshire has ”reset” the race.’ ’“Last Monday night when the Iowa caucuses were complete, they said the race was now a   race between two present senators and a reality TV star,” Bush . “And while the reality TV star is still doing well, it looks like you all have reset things. ”’ ’ ’ ”He’s in a dead heat with Cruz for third place, per the AP.” ’’ ” 10:46 p. m. ET  —   Trump spoke to CNN’s Jake Tapper in a phone interview.” ’”I was so happy,” he said.’ ’Tapper added that it will likely be the biggest win in a New Hampshire Republican Primary since 2000, when John McCain beat George W. Bush.’ ’”I didn’’t know that, that’’s a great feeling to know it’’s been that big of a victory,” he said. ”It’’s just an honor to have won.” ’ ”10:43 p. m. ET  —   Here are Trump’s first tweets following his victory:” ’   ’t’t’tThank you, New Hampshire! Departing with my amazing family now!     —   Donald J. Trump  (@realDonaldTrump)    ’ ’ ’t’t’tThank you, New Hampshire! Departing with my amazing family now!    ’ ’ ’t’t’tThank you to the people of  New Hampshire, I love you! Now, off to South Carolina. ’t’t’ ’10:42 p. m. ET  —   ’ ’10:31 p. m. ET  —   New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) is headed home to New Jersey. He sounds as if he is considering dropping out of the race following New Hampshire, where he is currently a distant sixth among the candidates.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tChristie: ”We’re gonna go home to New Jersey tomorrow and we’re going to take a deep breath. ”’t’t’ ’10:27 p. m. ET  —   Cruz leads Bush by less than 600 votes for third place with 59% of precincts reporting, the AP reports. ’ ’10:10 p. m. ET  —   Kasich spoke to supporters at his New Hampshire headquarters after his second place finish in the state.’ ’”There’’s magic in the air with this campaign,” he said. ”Because, we don’’t see it as just another campaign we see this as an opportunity for all of us, I mean all of us, to be a part of something that is bigger than our own lives. ”’ ’”Something big happened tonight, and let me tell you what it is, we have had tens of tens of millions spent against us with negative advertising,” he continued. ”We have. That’’s the old politics. We never went negative, because we have more good to sell then to spend our time being critical of somebody else. Maybe, just maybe, we’’re turning the page on a dark part of American politics, because tonight the light overcame the darkness of negative campaigning. ”’ ’’ ’9:56 p. m. ET  —   Donald Trump gave his victory speech at his New Hampshire headquarters.’ ’”We’’re going to make America great again,” he started.’ ’He then gave   to his parents, siblings, wife Melania, and children.’ ’The crowd then began chanting ”USA! USA! USA! USA! ”’ ’He started his speech off humbly, congratulating the other Republican candidates, adding that ”we have some real talent in the Republican party. ”’ ’Then, he thanked his voters.’ ’”You started it, remember,” he said.’ ’The crowd began chanting back ”Trump! Trump! Trump! Trump! ”’ ’He then congratulated Sanders on his win, although he added that Sanders ”wants to give away our country. ”’ ’”We’’re going to beat all of these countries that are taking so much of our money away from us,” he said, later adding ”I am going to be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. ”’ ’”We are going to start winning again,” he said of the country. ”And we’’re going to win so much, you’’re going to be so happy. We’’re going to make America so great again. Maybe greater than ever before. ”’ ’He finished his speech by guaranteeing that ”We’’re going to win in South Carolina.”  ’ ’’ ”9:46 p. m. ET  —   It’s a dead heat for third place in the Republican primary. The AP, with 43% of precincts reporting, has Cruz, Bush, and Rubio in that order separated by less than 1, 500 votes. ” ’9:43 p. m. ET  —   The AP called second place in the Republican race for Kasich.’ ’9:25 p. m ET  —   Sanders took the stage to address his supporters after his victory at his New Hampshire campaign headquarters. ’ ’He first congratulated Clinton for running a good campaign and thanked her for her call.’ ’”Let me take this opportunity to thank the many many thousands of volunteers here in The Granite State who worked so tirelessly,” he said. ”Our volunteers worked night and day, made phone calls, and knocked on a heck of a lot of doors, and we won because of your energy, thank you all so much. ”’ ’”Nine months ago, we began our campaign here in New Hampshire,” he continued. ”We had no campaign organization, we had no money, and we were taking on the most powerful political organization in the United States of America. And tonight, with what appears to be a   voter turnout, because of a huge voter turnout and I say yuuuuge, we won. Because we harnessed the energy and the excitement that the Democratic party will need to succeed in November.’ ’”What happened here in New Hampshire in terms of an enthusiastic electorate who came out in large numbers, that is what will happen all over this country,” he added. ”And let us never forget, Democrats and progressives win when voter turnout is high, Republicans win when people are demoralized and voter turnout is low. ”’ ’’ ’9:13 p. m. ET  —   Clinton addressed supporters from her New Hampshire headquarters.’ ’”I don’’t know what we’’d have done if we actually won,” she quipped. ”This is a pretty exciting event. ”’ ’”I want to begin by congratulating Senator Sanders on his victory tonight and I want to thank each and every one of you,” she continued. ”I still love New Hampshire and I always will. And here’’s what we’’re going to do. Now we take this campaign to the entire country. We’’re going to fight for every vote in every state. We’’re going to fight for real solutions that make a real difference. ”’ ’”We’’re going to win this nomination and we’’re going to win this election together!” she concluded.’ ’’ ”9:09 p. m. ET  —   Here’s Clinton’s congratulatory tweet to Sanders:” ’   ’t’t’tTo  congratulations. To New Hampshire, thank you. And to our volunteers: I’m so grateful for what you built. Now, onward.  ’t’t —   Hillary Clinton  (@HillaryClinton)    ’ ’ ’t’t’tTo  congratulations. To New Hampshire, thank you. And to our volunteers: I’m so grateful for what you built. Now, onward.  ’t’t’ ’9:08 p. m. ET  —   Fox News is calling second place in the Republican race for Kasich.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tJohn Kasich wins second among Republicans in   projects. ’t’t’ ’9:05 p. m. ET  —   The AP shows that Bush has now overtaken Cruz for third place with 26% of precincts reporting. His lead over Cruz is razor thin.’ ’8:54 p. m. ET  —   Both Politico and the AP are reporting that Cruz has overtaken Bush for third place, with 22% of precincts counted.’ ”8:44 p. m. ET  —   Clinton’s communications director tweeted that Clinton called Sanders to congratulate him on the win and is now headed to address her supporters.” ’’ ’  called to congratulate  and now en route to address her supporters. ’t’t’ ’8:36 p. m. ET  —   Sanders  Jewish candidate to win a presidential primary or caucus with his win in New Hampshire on Tuesday.’ ’8:32 p. m. ET  —   With 14% of precincts reporting in the Democratic race, Sanders, who has already been declared the victor, has widened his lead over Clinton. He is now up by 16 points, a 57% to 41% margin.’ ’’ ’8:29 p. m. ET  —   Politico is now reporting the results of nearly 14% of precincts, and Kasich, Bush, Cruz, and Rubio are currently running in that order behind Trump. Of note, Rubio, at 9. 7% now falls below the threshold of picking up any delegates in the state.’ ”8:12 p. m. ET  —   The night is far from over. There is still a huge battle playing out for second place in the Republican primary, and it’s still close. Kasich holds a five point lead over Bush with 8. 6% reporting, per Decision Desk HQ. Cruz and Rubio follow in fourth and fifth place.” ’’ ’8:05 p. m. ET  —   Clinton conceded the race to Sanders.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tNew memo from  campaign manager Robby Mook: ”Why March Matters So Much.”  ’ ’8:00 p. m. ET  —   BREAKING: Trump and Sanders win the primary, per multiple outlets including CNN and the AP.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tCNN projects  and  have won the     ’ ’7:58 p. m. ET  —    with roughly 4% of precincts reporting on both sides, is showing a 53. 3%   44. 6% lead for Sanders, and a 33. 1%   16. 8% lead for Trump over Kasich.’ ’Polls are set to close at 8 p. m.’ ”7:56 p. m. ET  —   Here’s what CNN is currently listing, with 3% of Republican precincts and 5% of Democratic precincts reporting.” ’’ ’7:53 p. m. ET  —   Decision Desk HQ is now reporting 8. 3% of Republican primary precincts, and Trump is maintaining a   lead.’ ’Of note, Rubio has fallen to fourth among Kasich, Bush, and Cruz, the four who are jockeying for second place behind Trump.’ ’’ ”7:50 p. m. ET  —   Sanders is still leading Clinton by a wide margin early on the Democratic side, with Decision Desk HQ reporting a 57. 7%   41. 8% advantage for the Vermont senator with 3% of precincts reporting. The Associated Press’s rolling results currently show that Sanders leads Clinton 54% to 44% with 3% of precincts reporting.” ’7:49 p. m. ET  —   With 2. 6% of precincts reporting on the Republican side, Trump leads Kasich by roughly 13% per Decision Desk HQ.’ ’’ ’7:37 p. m. ET  —   A note for readers, exit polling information are not necessarily reliable, and voters are still lined up and have yet to vote at some polling precincts in New Hampshire.’ ”Indeed, in last week’s Iowa caucuses, the state’s entrance polls  a Trump win.” ’7:35 p. m. ET  —   With 1. 7% of precincts reporting on the Democratic side, Sanders is carrying a big lead over Clinton, per Decision Desk HQ.’ ’’ ”7:32 p. m. ET  —   Decision Desk HQ  that, with 1. 7% of precincts reporting, Trump already has a big lead in the state. He’s carrying more than 40% of the early vote.” ’’ ’7:11 p. m. ET  —   CNN is reporting long lines at the polls and major traffic delays as New Hampshire voters attempt to cast last minute votes. Most of the polls closed at 7 p. m. ET, but some remain open until 8 p. m.’ ’’ ’7:01 p. m. ET  —   An exit poll showed that 66% of GOP primary voters in New Hampshire support a temporary ban on Muslims entering the US.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tNH EXIT POLL: 66% of GOP primary voters support banning Muslims from entering the U. S.   ’ ’The first primaries in the nation have wrapped. ..’