”The 2016 edition of  the Institute for International and Strategic Studies’ (IISS) definitive annual report on the state of the world’s various armed forces, has some encouraging and    news about   spending.” ’On the one hand, growth in military spending is slowing down in the volatile Middle East and is even contracting in Latin America thanks to plunging oil prices.’ ”But at the same time, two countries that often take an adversarial stance toward the US and its allies were responsible for over   of last year’s increases: Russia and China.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Asia in general is  investing in   weapons systems and advanced hardware at a time when much of the rest of the world is cutting back.’ ”According to Rajendran, Asian militaries now spend a total of $100 billion more on defense than NATO’s European member states, even after the outbreak of the Ukraine crisis and increasing Russian assertiveness along Moscow’s borders with Europe.” ’It makes sense that Russia and China are increasing their defense spending. Russia is in the midst of a substantial modernization drive, producing new tanks and   aircraft.’ ”If anything, Russia can’t spend as much as it would like to on defense. It will  thanks to cost overruns. And Moscow has .” ’’ ’Moscow has used its military for blunt power projection repeatedly since the Ukraine crisis began, deploying  at Cold War rates,  and sending its warplanes on provocative flight paths in  and .’ ”Meanwhile, China has spent the past decade working on   systems ranging from  to  to . It’s  and following a policy in the   South China and East China seas that brings it into inevitable tension with its neighbors  —   and the US.” ’’ ’Russia and China have clear and often assertive military and regional policies that have kept their defense budgets rising in a time when military spending is decreasing in other key regions.’ ’The two countries are positioning themselves for future conflicts, and their spending growth is outpacing just about every other country.’ ’The 2016 edition of The Military Balance, the. ..’