’’ ’Slack is a   startup that makes a popular   app.’ ”In less than two years, it’s been able to get 2 million daily active users and is now worth $2. 8 billion.” ”When you grow that fast, you’re going to see competition, and Slack has been no exception. From the big guys like Facebook and LinkedIn to the smaller Atlassian, rising competition has come at Slack from everywhere.” ”But Slack’s CEO Stewart Butterfield seems unfazed by all the potential threats he’s seeing. He’s confident that Slack has one big advantage over any of the popular messaging apps: its laser focus on work communication.” ’only’ ’Butterfield said because of this focus, Slack is able to block out all the unnecessary noise and distractions, like s’ ’”You look at email, LinkedIn or Facebook messaging, that’s a problem,” Butterfield added.’ ”To be clear, the messaging apps by Facebook and LinkedIn aren’t necessarily in the same   space as Slack is  —   yet.” ’Rather, Facebook plans to turn its messaging app into a communication channel between businesses and consumers, where delivery updates or receipts are shared. But at the same time, Facebook recently launched Facebook at Work, a business version of its service, showing broader ambitions to get into the   space.’ ”LinkedIn’s messaging may not be the most popular choice for internal work communication either, but it did revamp its layout recently to make it more intuitive, in hopes of broadening its market.” ’Slack has a plan to further differentiate its service from others. It wants to turn its app into a broader platform, where not just communication takes place, but also   activities like expense reports or   meetings could be taken care of.’ ”It’s why it recently launched an App Directory where users can download   apps, and  focused on startups that make   apps. And Butterfield believes that will be the difference between Slack and the rest of the messaging apps that are both in the consumer and business markets.” ’’ ’Slack is a   startup that makes a popular. ..’