’’ ’’ ”They  that this wasn’t a   as 1) production from Russia, Qatar, and Venezuela wasn’t expected to rise much anyway, and 2) Iran and Iraq weren’t involved.” ”However, RBC Capital Markets’ Helima Croft and her team think that Iran and Iraq’s absence actually says a lot.” ’”Saudi Arabia has . .. strategically placed the ball back in the court of their regional archrival, Iran, and by extension, Iraq,” Croft argued in a recent note to clients.’ ’”It almost appears that Saudi Arabia has taken a page from the Frank Underwood (House of Cards) playbook when it comes to managing the cartel relations,” she suggested.’ ’(Frank Underwood is the Machiavellian protagonist of  hit show ””. )’ ’Since the nuclear sanctions have been lifted, Iran is now the one major oil producer gearing up to hike exports this year in the hopes of reaching   levels.’ ’As for Iraq, the country was one of the  to OPEC supply growth in 2015.’ ”Notably, in the days leading up to the December OPEC meeting, while de facto leader Saudi Arabia adopted a more conciliatory posture . At the time, Iranian energy minister, Bijan Namdar Zangeneh, ruled out Iran accepting any output restrictions until the country’s exports returned to   levels.” ’Since then, Iran has sent mixed signals, including  of flooding the zone with its oil in  . But ”even when the Iranians have been more conciliatory, they still have blamed the Saudis and their GCC allies for being the architects of the price decline by continuing to flood the market,” observed Croft.’ ”But now, following Tuesday’s announcement, Croft argues:” ”For what it’s worth, Iranian oil minister Bijan Zanganeh  that his country won’t agree to freezing its output at January levels.” ’JUST IN: Iran has no immediate plans to cap oil output, may reduce production once it has returned to   level   DJ’ ’’ ”Still, that’s not the only thing that’s significant about the decision to freeze production.” ’”Today’s announcement by select OPEC players and Russia of an agreement to freeze output levels marks the first, albeit mostly symbolic, collective action by sovereign producers in the face of low oil prices,” writes Croft.’ ’Moreover, ”it is an acknowledgment among the oil heavyweights that all is not well, [and] it signals a true potential willingness to be more proactive later in the year,” she added.’ ’In short, this latest decision to freeze production is more than meets the eye.’ ’Saudi Arabia, Russia, Qatar, and. ..’