’Amazon is determined to take over the apparel industry.’ ’The brand is scooping up talented people in the fashion world for roles on its merchandising teams. And now there is widespread speculation the brand will start its own clothing label.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Macy’s  in the beginning of this year. Nordstrom just reported disappointing earnings. And once beloved mall stores like Abercrombie & Fitch and Aeropostale are struggling to stay relevant.” ’Analysts at RBC Capital Markets believe that these struggles are part of a larger trend in retail, as more customers shop online instead of in stores. Shoppers are also increasingly unwilling to shell out for expensive apparel, deciding instead to spend their money on electronics and restaurants.’ ”Beyond overall challenges in the industry, it’s unclear what consumer segment Amazon will sell to.” ’’ ’Amazon initially wanted to be known as a luxury retailer, but has since transitioned to the mass market.’ ’ last year’ ’”There has been lot of speculation on us entering the luxury market and that is just not something that we’re focused on right now,” Perry said. ”What we are focused on is developing an experience for our large customer base. That customer seems to have a great appetite for many things. ”’ ”Instead, the company has secured partnership brands   brands such as Lacoste and Theory, according to Business of Fashion. The fashion site also noted Amazon is focusing on enhancing the user experience, as Amazon’s   is not tailored to suit selling   products.” ’For years, the brand has worked arduously to gain a credible reputation within the fashion industry.’ ”In 2012, the massive ecommerce company  for photography in the trendy neighborhood of Williamsburg in Brooklyn, hoping to woo luxury fashion companies and their loyal followers. With Cathy Beaudoin as president of Amazon’s fashion division at the helm, this has been an apparent part of its mission.” ’Luxury brands, however, .’ ’”Amazon will never sell Louis Vuitton, because we are the only ones that sell it,” Louis Vuitton Chief Executive Yves Carcelle told in 2012. ”This is a model of direct control that we pioneered, and I think long term it is the direction that most luxury ecommerce will take. ”’ ”Despite Amazon’s efforts, becoming a force in the apparel world will be a huge challenge.” ’Amazon is determined to take over the apparel. ..’