’’ ’’ ’The SEC on Wednesday charged a former Deutsche Bank research analyst with .’ ’’ ’According to the SEC, Grom in March 2012 issued a ”Buy” rating on the stock of the discount retailer Big Lots, even though he thought it should be downgraded.’ ’Grom had been bullish at one point, but after hosting a roadshow with Big Lots management and Deutsche Bank clients, he turned negative. He called a Deutsche Bank trader responsible for trading Big Lots stock, and the trader promptly sold a bunch of stock. He called several clients, whom he told to sell stock.’ ’The next day, however, he published a report giving the stock a ”Buy” rating, though his note was titled, ”Not All Is Good In Buckeye Land. ”’ ’The key passage from the SEC filing is here:’ ”Then, less than a month later, he said on a morning conference call with research and sales staff members that he didn’t downgrade the firm to maintain his relationship.” ’That breached Regulation AC of the Exchange Act, or the analyst certification requirement, according to the SEC. Deutsche Bank terminated Grom in February 2013 for ”conduct not consistent with firm standards. ”’ ’The SEC filing provides some insight into how certain aspects of Wall Street research works. It also provides a bit of exposure to how stock trading can be a stacked field against average investors.’ ’First, analyst compensation was partially based on the level of contact the analyst had with management. That would seem to incentivize positive research. One would assume company management has a tendency to like analysts who write nice things about it. If an analyst is paid based in part on a relationship, that could lead analysts to write nice research to get paid.’ ’Here is the passage from the SEC filing :’ ’You can see this in evidence later in the SEC filing. Grom appears reluctant to downgrade Big Lots, lest it upset the CEO. From the filing:’ ”Second, there is trading. In case you need a reminder that day trading is a game you can’t win because you’re competing against pros with all sorts of edges, there’s this nugget from the filing :” ”In short, a hedge fund basically decided to buy because it knew that the next day the analyst covering the stock would be telling other clients to buy. This doesn’t necessarily mean much for analysts overall, but it illustrates the edge fund managers can gain from going to events closed to the public.” ”Third, when Grom figured out that the outlook wasn’t as rosy for Big Lots as he first thought, he started talking to the firm’s best clients, telling them to sell shares.” ’Four funds, described as hedge funds A, B, C, and D, all sold after these conversations. Grom felt as if they owed him something for telling them to sell.’ ’Fourth, there is this mystery: A Deutsche Bank proprietary trading account sold shares after talking to Grom the morning after the roadshow meeting. Here is more from the filing (emphasis ours):’ ’A Deutsche Bank representative declined to comment.’ ’A new filing from the Securities and Exchange. ..’