’’ ’Cities have long sought to bolster their innovative and entrepreneurial capacities.’ ’In an effort to spur startup activity, many U. S. urban areas have developed tech centers and innovation districts, lured venture capital funds, and launched incubator programs and facilities.’ ’The latest trend in the tech startup economy is the creation of   “accelerators,” which act like a Shark Tank school for startups, providing access to mentors and peers along with space and venture funding.’ ’Perhaps the   accelerator is  —  established by Paul Graham in 2005 and based in the Silicon Valley —  which has launched some 940 companies including Airbnb, Dropbox, and Reddit. Yet another popular example is  —  founded in 2006 in Boulder, Colorado —  which now sponsors 21 accelerators across the world.’ ’’ ’A  by Ian Hathaway from the Brookings Institution Metropolitan Policy Program takes a close look at the spread of startup accelerators across U. S. cities and metros. Hathaway distinguishes accelerators from incubators and   programs, defining them as “” “” “fixed term,” meaning they end with a graduation day when the startups go out on their own (see the chart above). Based on this definition, the study identifies 172 accelerators across the U. S. using data from the   venture capital databases   and .’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’ompanies that had recently completed or were accelerator programs  $5. 1 million  $7. 1 million. Companies that went on to raise even more venture capital, however, had a median valuation of $15. 6 million and an average valuation of $90 million. In 2015 alone, these figures were valued at $30 million and $196 million, respectively.’ ’But, like venture capital and startup activity more broadly, startup accelerators vary widely across the country. As the map below shows, the majority of startup accelerators are located in the San Francisco Bay Area and along the   corridor.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Close behind is St. Louis with four startup accelerators. Another 11 metros have 3 accelerators each, and include established tech hubs like Austin, Boulder, and   Hill in the North Carolina Research Triangle as well as Nashville, Pittsburgh, Kansas City, and Cincinnati. Yet another six metros —  including Houston, Phoenix, Memphis, and Louisville —  have two accelerators each.’ ’Ultimately, the report suggests that accelerators are helping to expand startup activity beyond the nation’s leading tech hubs, noting that these programs “have been shown to attract more investors and focus energy on the nascent startup communities that have been spreading throughout the United States. ” The report also includes useful advice from Brad Feld, the   of the Techstars accelerator program and a leading venture capitalist, who highlights the importance of making accelerators part of a larger startup ecosystem and using them to catalyze a broader culture of innovation and entrepreneurship.’ ’’ ’But while   accelerators like Techstars and Y Combinator have proven quite effective at identifying and developing successful startups, their success may not be widely replicable. For one, the nation’s leading tech hubs have far and away the majority of accelerators. The Bay Area is the leading center of high tech startups and venture capital investment in the nation, and Boulder  on a per capita basis back in 2013. While accelerators have spurred lots of startups in these places, they are themselves a product of their   entrepreneurial ecosystems.’ ’This raises the question of whether governments can or should be involved in forming or subsidizing accelerators. The wide body of evidence suggests that the answer is no. Study after study has found that publicly supported venture capital funds and   incubators are ineffective at spurring actual startups or generating durable startup ecosystems. While privately financed accelerators can help to   entrepreneurial activity, it makes little sense to use scarce government funds to support private startup activity, which, in the very best case, makes entrepreneurs extremely wealthy.’ ’Cities have long sought to bolster their. ..’