’The main suspect in a series of fatal shootings in Michigan on Saturday was an Uber driver who may have been opening fire randomly as he picked up fares, .’ ’Detectives believe that    Jason Dalton shot eight people  —   six of them fatally  —   in various locations around Kalamazoo.’ ”Uber confirmed to Business Insider that Dalton was a driver who had passed his background check.  go back seven years and run a potential driver’s name and address in a series of national, state, and local databases, including the National Sex Offender Registry and the National Criminal Search.” ’Local law enforcement confirm with WoodTV that Dalton has . ’ ”A Facebook post by a Kalamazoo resident written on Saturday and  says that her fiancé’s Uber driver, named Jason, was driving very erratically: sideswiping another car, swerving in and out of oncoming traffic, speeding, and refusing to pull over.” ’”The Uber driver named JASON drives a silver Chevy Equinox is NOT a safe ride,” Mackenzie Waite wrote on Facebook.’ ”Another man, who asked to only be identified by his first name, Derek,  that he and his family took an Uber ride with Dalton only about 20 minutes before he was arrested early Sunday morning. The   group, visiting Kalamazoo from Indiana, decided to take an Uber back to their hotel after a night out because they’d heard the news about the shootings. ” ’’ ’’ ’Uber is helping police with the investigation. ’ ’”We are horrified and heartbroken at the senseless violence in Kalamazoo, Michigan,” Uber’’s chief security officer, Joe Sullivan, said in a statement. ”Our hearts and prayers are with the families of the victims of this devastating crime and those recovering from injuries. We are reaching out to the police to help with their investigation in any way that we can. ”’ ’Earlier this year, Uber  and said it would stop using descriptions like ” ” to describe its background checks. Uber’’s background checks don’’t involve fingerprinting, which San Francisco and Los Angeles highlighted when filing a joint civil suit stating  about its checks.  ’ ”This tweet shows what appears to be the suspect’s Uber profile (note: the ride completed in the screenshot didn’t take place on the day of the shooting):” ’’ ’  the shooter was my uber driver  ’ ’Dalton is currently in police custody and no motive has yet been determined for this crime.’ ’The main suspect in a series of fatal shootings. ..’