’The    chaotic civil war in Yemen has reached a decisive moment. The   coalition and Yemeni government forces are now about 30 miles from the capital, Sana’a. The city was captured in September 2014 by a coalition of Shiite Houthi rebels and elite military units loyal to the country’s former dictator, Ali Abdullah Saleh. The  is expected to be as long and bloody as the   ongoing battle to control the country’s third largest city in the southwest, Taiz.’ ’But the   intervention in Yemen has resulted in a slippery slope that is now threatening the entire world. More than  so far; half of them are civilians. About 2. 5 million people have been displaced from their homes due to the fighting. Many millions more are in urgent need of food, water and medical supplies.’ ’Yet, the most alarming consequence of the Yemeni war is the rise of   in the country and the emergence of ISIS, the splinter group responsible for directing the Paris attacks last November and inspiring the San Bernardino shooting the following month.  ’s branch in Yemen, which is called   in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) is the most dangerous part of the global terror organization. Its record in attacking the West includes the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris in January 2015, the Fort Hood shooting in November 2009, and the killing of the American photojournalist Luke Somers in December 2014.’ ’’ ’Last Saturday,   militants stormed the town of Ahwar that connects two of the terror group’s controlled territories on the Arabian Sea. After killing a local leader of the town, they  on the government buildings.   hasn’t been this strong since a decade ago, when it controlled much of the Sunni parts of Iraq before the U. S. surge of forces in 2007.’ ’Three Yemeni provincial capitals are now run by  . The port of   on the Arabian Sea, the country’s fifth largest city and the capital of Yemen’s largest province in size, was captured by the terror group in April 2015 after a   battle. The militants released 300 inmates from the city’s prison, including top  ’s commanders. They also captured several army camps with dozens of tanks, a military airfield, a presidential palace, an oil facility and the branch of Yemen’s central bank that held millions of U. S. dollars. ’ ’The port of Zinjibar, also on the Arabian Sea, fell to   last December, five months after the Yemeni government forces  from the Houthi rebels. A month later, the extremists fully controlled a third provincial capital, the southern town of  . Soon afterward, four more neighboring towns fell to   without much of a fight.    ’ ’’ ’The rise of   in Yemen is a direct result of the civil war. The terror group has used the preoccupation of the U. S, the West and the region’s government with ISIS to resurge in Yemen. The U. S. has been involved in a war of drones against   for 15 years, killing many senior leaders of the group. However, this approach has no affect on the ground, as   continues to expand and replace its fallen commanders.’ ’Another factor contributing to the growth of  ’s operations in Yemen is the   policy that the Saudi led coalition is taking toward the group. While the Saudis target   occasionally, the group’s reign hasn’t really been challenged by any reliable force on the ground. On the contrary, the   Yemeni government forces fought sometimes alongside   against the Houthi rebels as it was revealed in the case of .’ ’As the battle of Sana’a approaches and the country continues to unravel,   will capitalize on the fierce fighting that is expected to last for months to further expand its footprint across the   country. With that, a safe haven will emerge for the world’s most dangerous terror group.’ ’  will use its expanded base to further destabilize the region of the Horn of Africa, where its ally, the Somali terror group   is operating. That could lead to the resumption of piracy in the Arabian Sea. More broadly, plots to attack the U. S. and the West will multiply.’ ’The    chaotic civil war in Yemen. ..’