’’ ”Apple lobbed a constitutional bomb at the government on Thursday when it  to reverse a court order asking the company to give the FBI access to a gunman’s phone.” ’’ ’’ ” filed Thursday afternoon, echoes that sentiment. In it, attorneys from  argue that the company’s forced compliance with the FBI would violate the First and Fifth amendments of the US Constitution.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’”Generally, the First Amendment says the government can’’t force you to say something, especially if you disagree with it,” Crocker said. ”Well, by being forced to write code, the government is asking just that. ”’ ’”  law,” as Apple’’s attorneys note in the motion, has established code as free speech within the context of the First Amendment.’ ’”The general idea is that the First Amendment protects all kinds of expression, whether that’’s speech, musical scores, or mathematical equations,” Crocker said.’ ’And Apple disagrees with software the government wants.’ ’”When Apple designed iOS 8, it wrote code that announced the value it placed on data security and the privacy of citizens by omitting a back door that bad actors might exploit,” the motion reads.’ ’The court order also requires that Apple cryptographically ”sign” any software it creates.’ ’By signing the software, ”Apple is forced to verify that the software comes from Apple, it forces Apple to convey that message, which undermines the one it’’s been sending to consumers,” Esha Bhandari, staff attorney on the American Civil Liberties Union’’s Project on Speech, Privacy, and Technology, told Business Insider.’ ’The ACLU plans to file an amicus brief, focusing on Fifth Amendment arguments, in support of Apple, according to Bhandari.’ ’The Fifth Amendment guarantees the right to ”. ”’ ”Apple’s attorneys argue:” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’produced nothing more than the speculation that this iPhone might contain potentially relevant information. ”’ ’FBI Director James Comey expressed uncertainty about the contents of the phone .’ ’”Maybe the phone holds the clue to finding more terrorists. Maybe it doesn’’t,”  ”’ ’Apple lobbed a constitutional bomb at the. ..’