’’ ’New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie ( ) rocked the Republican presidential primary on Friday with an endorsement of Donald Trump, calling the real estate mogul the candidate best ”prepared to provide America with the strong leadership. ”’ ’In a joint press conference in Fort Worth it was all   and bonhomie between the two formal rivals.’ ’But way back  —   er, two weeks ago  —   when Christie was still a candidate in the presidential race, he was targeting The Donald just like the other GOP  .’ ”Perhaps stung by Christie’s barbs, Trump even noted earlier this month that Christie  but things had changed. Until today.” ”Here are some of Christie’s most pointed attacks on Trump from the primary campaign:” ’In January,  for boycotting the Fox News presidential debate, saying that Trump was acting like a ”  .” He said Trump’’s reaction to Fox News’’ coverage of him said a lot about the kind of president he would be.’ ’”What’’s that tell you about what we can expect if things go sideways when you go into the Oval Office? What are you going to do? Just go upstairs to the residence and say I’m not playing?” he asked. ”You know, Vladimir Putin isn’’t being nice to me, I’’m not going to return his phone call? The press isn’’t being nice to me, I’’m not going to hold any more press conferences? ”’ ’Christie also  that Trump’’s decision to skip the debate showed that the real estate mogul is ” . ”’ ’”I think it just makes people call into question his judgment,” Christie said. ”America wants a fighter who’’s not going to walk away from a fight, but will walk into one. ”’ ’Christie  to ban Muslims was ”the kind of thing that people say when they have no experience and don’’t know what they’’re talking about. ”’ ’”We do not need to endorse that type of activity, nor should we,” he said. ”You do not need to be banning Muslims from the country. That’’s, in my view, that’’s a ridiculous position and one that won’’t even be productive. ”’ ’During a January event in New Hampshire,  Trump one of the ”carnival barkers of today. ”’ ’”Showtime is over. We are not electing an   . Showmanship is fun, but it is not the kind of leadership that will truly change America,” Christie said of Trump.’ ”Christie dismissed Trump’s insistence that the Mexican government would pay for a wall along the United States’ southern border.” ’”This makes no sense. I’’ve met [Mexican] President Nieto a number of times. I don’’t think if we present him with a bill he’’s going to pay for it,” . ”This is not negotiation of a real estate deal, OK? This is international diplomacy, and it’’s different. ”’ ’Christie  on the campaign trail, telling a crowd that, ”Everyone in Washington is a loser. ”’ ’Christie then said that ”anybody can burn a building down, but not everybody can rebuild it. ”’ ’The New Jersey governor criticized Trump for failing to correct an audience member who said that President Obama is a Muslim and that Muslims are a ”problem in this country. ”’ ’”I wouldn’’t have permitted that,” . ”If someone brought that up at a town hall of mine, I would have said ’’Before we answer, let’’s clear some things up for the rest of the audience,’’ and I think you have an obligation as a leader to do that. ”’ ’During a January town hall in New Hampshire, Christie pointed out that he has more experience than Trump.’ ’”I tell everybody who goes to a Donald Trump event, if you get to ask a question, just ask him ’’how? ’’” . ”I don’t care which of the things he talks about just ask him, ’’How? How? ’’”’ ’”I can answer ’’how? ’’ because I’’ve done it,” he continued, adding, ”that’’s the difference between a governor and Donald Trump. That’’s the different between a governor and (senator) Marco Rubio. That’’s the different between a governor and (senator) Ted Cruz. ”’ ’In October, the  that Trump’’s thoughts on U. S. policy regarding Syria were ”painfully naive. ”’ ’In December, Christie slammed Trump for mocking a reporter suffering from a disability.’ ’”He shouldn’’t be making fun of people with disabilities,” . ”It’’s just not worthy of someone running for the president of the United States. ”’ ’”He’’s got to answer for himself,” he continued. ”Part of the folly of all this is that we’’re answering for him. He’’s said what’’s he’’s said, and now the people who vote will have to judge him. In the context of Donald, outrageous is a high bar. ”’ ’When Trump claimed that Muslims cheered on Sept. 11, 2001, when the Twin Towers fell, Christie  on the statement and said ”that didn’’t happen. ”’ ”In July, Christie said he didn’t want to talk about Trump, though the governor went on to address some of Trump’s statements later in the election cycle.” ’”I don’’t comment on his comments. It’’s just not worth the time,” ’ ’New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie ( ) rocked. ..’