’’ ’American  set a new world hour record in  on Saturday.’ ’She rode a distance of  at the  in Colorado Springs, Colorado.’ ”She beat the previous record of 46. 882 kilometers (29. 13 miles) set January 22 by Australian Bridie O’Donnell in Adelaide, Australia.” ’Stevens, a California native, previously worked in investment banking and finance. She now rides for the Dutch .’ ’”It couldn’’t have been a more perfect day,” Stevens said after her ride. ”Awesome. ”’ ”Stevens’ first coach, Matthew Koschara, told Business Insider in 2014 he was not surprised by her success.” ’He said she is a .’ ’”She has the right appetite, physiologically and psychologically,”  said. ”She’’s old school, she’’s hard core  —   she’’s a fighter. ”’ ’He pointed to Stevens’’ remarkable    ratio, and although he would not reveal stats from the time he coached Stevens, he said her   and   power numbers, measured in watts, were ”huge. ”’ ”At    and 120 pounds, she’s compact and very powerful.” ’She was beaming after setting the new world record:’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tWell, that makes it official!    ’ ’”I would like to congratulate ’’Evie’’ on her achievement,” . ”Bridie O’’Donnell’’s record stood for five weeks and we have already seen two attempts this year despite only being in February.’ ’Stevens was all smiles when she entered the velodrome.’ ’She looked at ease, and confident.’ ’’ ’Her coach, Neal Henderson, is an expert when it comes to the hour record.’ ’He and Stevens started training seriously in November.’ ’’ ’Her trained a former world   holder,  of Australia.’ ’Before the event started, she bowed her head for the national anthem.’ ’’ ’Here was Stevens awaiting the start:’ ’’ ’This is Stevens on the very first lap. After getting up to speed, she got set into her aero tuck.’ ’It would be a very long and painful hour of effort.’ ’’ ’This was the bike  —   made by     —   that Stevens set the record on:’ ’’ ’The velodrome is normally open air, but it was covered temporarily for this event.’ ”Built in 1983, it features a 333.  (1, 093. ) banked track for cycling on a cement surface. It’s at about  and is  .” ’All of which made for just about ideal conditions for Stevens.’ ’’ ’This GIF below shows GoPro footage previously taken on the track.’ ’Stevens is said to have used the footage as part of her training to help her visualize her successful effort.’ ’’ ’It all paid off  —   she smashed the previous record by over one kilometer:’ ’’ ’Her coach was thrilled:’ ’’ ’She broke the record handily, having ridden at nearly 30 mph for one hour.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tEvie Stevens: at one point halfway through I almost puked so I backed off a bit.   ’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tOfficially 47. 980 km for     ’ ’After graduating from Dartmouth in 2005, Stevens worked as an analyst for Lehman Brothers before taking a job as an associate at investment fund Gleacher Mezzanine (known today as Arrowhead).’ ”Four hours’ sleep a night.   workweeks. Diet Cokes around the clock. This was Stevens’ life on Wall Street.” ’Years on, and far from Wall Street, Stevens now ranks among .’ ’Stevens said she approaches cycling as she did investment banking: with tenacity. After turning pro, she dedicated herself completely  —   she was ” ”  —   just as when she’’d started her business career.’ ’”With investment banking and finance, it’’s not a world you gradually go into it,” she said. ”It’’s not like I started and they told me, ’’Take your time, get comfortable, leave at 5 p. m.’’ You’’re on deals, you’’re operating on a high level quickly.’ ’”If you want to get to that high level, you have to go after it,” she said. ”Investment banking is like pro cycling: It’’s not a career you have for 30 years. You realize, ’’I’’m going for it. ’’ For my career in cycling, every day it’’s like, ’’What do I need to do better? What do I need to train? ’’ You can’t become complacent. ”’ ”At 32, she’s in the prime of her career.” ’Even before setting the hour record on Saturday, she had major victories crowding her  or race résumé.’ ’’ ”It all started in late 2007. While on vacation in San Francisco, Stevens’ sister talked her into doing a local cyclocross race, which at first seemed like a crazy idea.” ”She’d played tennis in college, went to the gym, and did some running. But rarely did she ride a bike, let alone race one.” ’And yet there, in Golden Gate Park, at age 25, she raced for the first time, on a borrowed bike.’ ’She crashed and got banged up, but she finished and was immediately hooked  —   ”in love” even.’ ’”I was like, ’’This is awesome  —   this is for me,’’” she told Business Insider in 2014 about that first race.’ ’’ ’She is targeting the Olympics in Rio this summer.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’t”You don’’t know your limit until you hit it. I think I found it today.” —    ’ ’”I’’ve had some big wins, but I’m not at the top level yet. So it’’s like, ’’What do I need to do to become top level? ’’ I think it’’s the same in finance. For those moving up that ladder, they’’re constantly looking and thinking, ’’How do you do it differently? How do you do it better? ’’ It’’s a constantly moving process. ”’ ”You can watch highlights of Stevens’   ride .” ’American Evelyn Stevens set a new world hour. ..’