’A US Secret Service agent appeared to slam a Time magazine photographer to the ground after he stepped past a security barricade at a Monday rally hosted by the Donald Trump campaign.’ ’Time magazine  to the incident Monday that the photographer was ”thrown to the ground in a chokehold. ”’ ’In a   video posted to Instagram by an attendee, the photographer was seen talking to the agent before the latter appeared to force him to the ground. The photographer can be seen tussling with the agent in this video posted to Twitter:’ ’Secret Service agent choke slams reporter ’ ’He appeared to curse at the apparent Secret Service agent before he was taken down:’ ’Here’’s moments prior. The reporter says ”f*ck you”  —   that’’s when it got physical ’ ’He told another reporter at the rally about what happened:’ ’Time photog Chris Morris tells me how he was grabbed and taken down at Trump rally ’ ’The photographer said that he ”stepped 18 inches out of the [press] pen” when the agent grabbed him by the neck and started ”choking” him before slamming him to the ground.’ ”Here’s a short shot of the moment from the deleted Instagram video:” ’Gif of the moment in question in case Instagram gets pulled. Brutal. ’ ”The altercation came as protesters affiliated with the Black Lives Matter movement were being escorted out of the Radford, Virginia, rally. Trump’s rally was interrupted several times by protesters.” ’The Trump campaign identified the man as a Secret Service agent in a statement distributed to reporters.’ ’”There was an incident involving a USSS agent at today’’s Radford University Trump rally,” the campaign  in the statement. ”We are not aware of all the details surrounding the incident and all future inquiries should be directed to local law enforcement. ”’ ’The Time response said the magazine had contacted the Secret Service to express its concern about the incident.’ ’’ ’A Secret Service spokesman told Business Insider that the agency was aware of the incident and was investigating:’ ’This post has been updated with comment from the Secret Service and Time magazine.’ ’A US Secret Service agent appeared to slam a. ..’