’’ ’IBM handed out another batch of pink slips to workers on Wednesday, in a round of layoffs that some employees described as ”massive. ”’ ”The exact size of the layoffs could not be determined, but the job cuts are part of ongoing changes to the tech company’s workforce.” ”IBM won’t comment on or disclose how many people it cuts except to confirm that it is continuously shedding some workers while hiring others, and to report the financial impact, both in costs and savings.” ’Last year, IBM hired and fired in almost equal numbers. It added 70, 000 people, CEO Ginni Rometty said (including  who had launched a social media campaign. ”)’ ’But, according to research done by Business Insider, it chopped slightly more  through a combination of attrition, layoffs, retirement, people leaving for other jobs and business units it divested.’ ”IBM ended 2015 with a worldwide headcount of 377, 757, it reported. So that’s a workforce churn of 18%.” ”But the big difference with this layoff is that IBM has severely cut severance pay to one month total, no matter how many years of service the employee worked, several workers have confirmed to a Facebook page called  The page is maintained by Lee Conrad, the man who ran a former IBM employee watchdog organization called Alliance at IBM. He retired the Alliance organization last year, but through Facebook he’s still posting information from workers about layoffs and other working conditions at IBM.” ’Employees learned of the severance cut in January, 2016, when IBM sent out an employee document called  ”About Your Benefits   Separation” which Conrad shared with Business Insider. ’ ’In the document IBM explained that its ”Individual Separation Allowance Plan (ISAP) . .. is to provide transitional assistance to regular employees . .. when their employment with IBM has been terminated.” That includes if they are fired for performance issues or when their ”position” is ”eliminated” (aka a layoff).’ ’The document   told them that ”The separation allowance payment available under the Individual Separation Allowance Plan, regardless of the circumstance under which ISAP is offered, is one month of pay. ”’ ’In previous layoffs, IBM employees could expect a severance package that paid them based on how many years they worked. According to Conrad, that pay used to be up to 23 weeks. ’ ”Here’s a part of one post from an IBM worker who reported being  This person worked for IBM’s  division, a consulting unit with revenues that have been shrinking for years and which was down nearly 10% in fiscal 2015, ” ’GTS has been heavy hit with these ongoing layoffs, as IBM looks to shed expenses from its shrinking businesses.’ ’An IBM official confirms that it is continuing to cut jobs in some departments while offering bountiful   listings on others.’ ’A spokesperson sent us this statement:’ ’IBM handed out another batch of pink slips to. ..’