’The Bank of Japan is one of the newest central banks to adopt a negative interest rate policy (NIRP) and we’re already starting to see some of the  investors were worried about. Typically, the point of monetary easing is to expand the economy, but analysts are seeing the opposite happen in Japan following the adoption of the NIRP.’ ’Analysts from Credit Suisse and CLSA both issued reports this week highlighting the problems that are already coming out of the Bank of Japan’s new negative interest rate policy.’ ’’ ’Credit Suisse analysts Hiromichi Shirakawa and Takashi Shiono said they’re skeptical of the move and believe that the central bank’s NIRP is contracting rather than expanding the Asian nation’s economy. One of the big reasons they’re skeptical is because bank stocks in Japan have effectively collapsed since the Bank of Japan announced the negative interest rate policy.’ ’They draw a clear line in the sand between negative interest rates and quantitative easing (QE) with the former only now becoming a frightening trend and the latter having already been tested in some countries, including the U. S. QE targets expanding the outstanding monetary basis, but even it isn’t without problems, they say.’ ’The Credit Suisse team adds that the big variable here is the yield curve’s shape. They said the profitability of private banks usually deteriorates (as we have seen now with NIRPs in Japan and Europe) if the curve flattens. Further, banks’ capacity for “financial intermediation” erodes, which eventually results in weaker loan growth. As a result, they said any monetary easing action that flattens the yield curve is actually “contractionary” rather than “expansionary,” and they believe the Bank of Japan’s  will be contractionary.’ ’One is: “  operations reach an impasse, monetary base targeting is abandoned. ” The Credit Suisse team suggests that the market could refuse to sell Japanese government bonds in “necessary quantities” under the Bank of Japan’s asset purchase program. Under this program, the BoJ must expand the nation’s monetary base while also imposing negative interest rates on bank balances. The reason this could happen is because private banks might refuse to participate in the program “in the hope of alleviating downward pressure on market rates,” thus forcing the central bank to abandon the policy.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’And the third is: “  banks reduces [sic] lending. ” This could happen because private banks might worry that their capital positions will deteriorate, so they could cut lending, particularly if there is political pressure to participate in the Bank of Japan’s government bond buying program.’ ’CLSA analyst Nicholas Smith suggests some strategies for investors who want to invest in Japan but are unsure how to play the Bank of Japan’s NIRP. One option he said is to buy the yen, which he said is “overrated as a profit driver,” a view many investors currently have. The price to earnings ratio is currently moving in line with the currency, which he says offers “an attractive entry point” as it sits at 12. 1 times consensus   earnings.’ ’He also sees the NIRP as a positive for construction, real estate investment trusts, and real estate but because it pressures banks to lend. However, he also thinks Japanese bank stocks have overreacted to this risk.’ ’The Bank of Japan is one of the newest central. ..’