”South Korean exports are often referred to as the world’s economic  or leading indicator, because of their exposure to the US (12. 3%) China (25. 4%) and Japan (5. 6%)  —   the world’s three largest economies.” ”  percent of South Korea’s exports go to those countries if you consider Hong Kong (4. 8%) to be part of China, according to the .” ’Recently, Wall Street has been rather .’ ’The concern has come as South Korean exports have fallen by   percentage points in each of the past three months.’ ”In fact, South Korea hasn’t recorded    export growth since December 2014.” ’’ ’HSBC is beginning to see some ”green shoots” emerge, however, as Chinese tourism picks up and the Korean culture wave, or Hallyu, continues to ”sweep the region. ”’ ’The firm says Chinese consumers are becoming increasingly interested in ”Korean food, cosmetics, fashion, music, and, more importantly, TV dramas. ”’ ”In early December, South Korea’s won was trading at about 9. 50 per Japanese yen. Then further deterioration in South Korean exports and the possibility that the Bank of Japan would introduce negative interest rates caused the won to weaken to worse than 10. 37 per yen.” ”Following some initial won strength after the Bank of Japan announced negative interest rates, the won’s weakness continued, touching 11. 00 per yen.” ’’ ”The recent won weakness versus the yen has helped alleviate some of the pressure on South Korea’s exporters.” ’Korea and Japan compete heavily for exports as both look to offload their automobiles, electronics, and steel onto the rest of the world.’ ’HSBC believes this development is most likely good news, as a weak won is usually positive for South Korean equities.’ ’’ ”HSBC economist Frederic Neumann believes that South Korea’s macro fundamentals are sound and that the country’s finances are in a lot better shape than those of most of the region.” ’”Talk of financial stress is overdone,” Neumann wrote.’ ’And that could be good news for the global economy.’ ’South Korean exports are often referred to as. ..’