”On Sunday night, we’ll get an update on one of the most important data points in global finance right now: China’s    balance.” ”As China’s volatility has become a driver of global markets, the country’s   reserves have become a topic of fierce debate. They’re either the country’s savior or a distraction lulling the world into a false sense of security.” ”On the savior side, some say China’s reserves are the glue that’s holding the country together.” ’Knowing that the country has $3 trillion in cash to deal with dramatically slowing growth, a falling currency, and necessary economic reforms helps people sleep better at night.’ ’On the other hand, some, like hedge fund billionaire Kyle Bass, say even $3 trillion is not enough to save the country in the event of a banking crisis that is almost certainly on its way. And disaster aside, star China analyst Charlene Chu says the country would need  into the economy to get it growing again.’ ”Regardless, the picture for February isn’t that great. And it’s not just a question of having a big cushion of cash in the bank. In January, Chu wrote that if levels hit a certain point, the government’s going to have to take action [emphasis ours]:” ’’ ”In a recent note, Barclays analysts wrote that we’re likely to see Chinese   reserves decline by about $70 billion in February [emphasis ours]:” ”China’s economy is transitioning from one based on investment to one based on consumption. As that happens, massive industries that used to drive growth  —   like industrial commodities  —   will become less important. Ideally, new ones  —   like the service industry  —   will pick up the slack.” ”But in the meantime, there’s pain. The old industries must be restructured, and workers will lose their jobs. In fact, we know that 1. 8 million people will be fired from China’s copper and steel industries. That’s going to cost the country $15 billion.” ”That’s only going to get worse too. Officials told Reuters that we may see 5 million to 6 million Chinese people lose their jobs over the next two to three years. ” ’In the face of all this, people are taking money out of the country at rates Goldman Sachs said ”” The result is a decline in the Chinese yuan. That would’’ve been welcomed in an   China, but officials now need a currency strong enough to give its people purchasing power on a global scale. That means,  the forex reserves are also doing the work of propping up the yuan.’ ”It matters outside of China too. In January, we learned that the yuan’s convulsions could send stock markets around the world into a tizzy. ” ”In short, it’s not China that needs these reserves. It’s the entire world.” ’’ ”On Sunday night, we’ll get an update on one of. ..”