’’ ’Saudi Arabia needs more cash.’ ”According to The Wall Street Journal, the world’s  is  from international banks. As The Journal reported, the country ran a record $100 billion deficit in 2015, largely because of the sharp decline in oil prices.” ’Over the past few months, Saudi Arabia has adjusted to low oil prices by following a strategy that seems primarily aimed at avoiding production cuts.’ ”Riyadh has   for social programs, and  the country’s   state oil concern. The moves are meant to cushion the   effects of lagging oil revenue without requiring any deeper cuts.” ”At the same time, this new fiscal strategy, along with Saudi Arabia’s  allows the country to continue pumping at . This approach preserves Saudi Arabia’s leadership position in determining global production and price and cuts into the oil revenue of Iran, Riyadh’s top regional foe  —   all without seeming to pose any kind of   threat to the country’s bottom line.” ”The trouble is that oil is so cheap. And Saudi Arabia’s various regional policies are so expensive that the country apparently needs an additional line of funding on top of its various tax increases and  . Saudi Arabia is looking to borrow substantial amounts of money  according to The Journal, because it’s following a set of policies that require a measure of fiscal stability.” ”Right now, Saudi Arabia is leading a multinational Arab coalition that’s attempting to restore Yemen’s internationally recognized government, which   Houthi rebels overthrew in early 2015. The military effort has stalled and is .” ”Saudi Arabia was the  and had the world’s  in 2015. In February, Saudi Arabia held what was reported to be . ISIS has  over the past year, while Riyadh is also engaged in a   military and diplomatic   with Iran that’s forced it to essentially  of some of its allies.” ’Saudi Arabia is beginning to see the geopolitical limitations of its oil strategy.’ ”The country can afford to produce at a level that’s guaranteed to keep prices low. But the cost of covering the country’s budgetary needs becomes steeper the longer oil remains in a price trough. And the costs become steeper the longer Saudi Arabia maintains such a confrontational regional stance  —   a strategy that might actually explain oil’s low price in the first place.” ’Saudi Arabia needs more cash. According to The. ..’