’’ ”The clock is ticking for Donald Trump’s primary rivals’ attempt to  as the Republican Party held its 12th debate on Thursday in Miami.” ’Trump, the GOP presidential frontrunner, said that he’’s going for the ”” by winning Florida and Ohio, the two biggest    states in terms of delegates. Both states vote next week.’ ’Florida, the home state of Sen. Marco Rubio, is the largest    state of the season. It awards 99 delegates to its victor. Rubio trails Trump there by roughly 15 points, according to .’ ’The prospects seem a bit better for Ohio Gov. John Kasich in his home state. A recent Fox News poll had Kasich leading Trump by five points, and he trails Trump in the  by just 2. 5%. The Buckeye State, with 66 delegates, is the      primary for the GOP.’ ’In  Rubio and Kasich are far behind Trump and the fourth candidate, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, who has won several primary contests against Trump. But Trump nevertheless holds a nearly   lead over Cruz.’ ”Thursday’s CNN debate was likely the candidates’ final opportunity to make an impression on many voters in the key states voting next Tuesday. The debate was moderated by CNN’s Jake Tapper. It began at 9 p. m. and was being held at the University of Miami in Miami, Florida.” ’10:59 p. m. EST: ”What an incredible nation we have that the son of a bartender, and the son of a mailman, and the son of a dishwasher, and a successful businessman can all stand on this stage competing, and asking for your support,” Cruz said in his closing statement.’ ’9:17 p. m. EST: Trump admitted what many confirmed hours before  —   retired neurosurgeon and former 2016 GOP presidential candidate Ben Carson will be endorsing him tomorrow.’ ’9:15 p. m. EST: The candidates have spoken for the first fifteen minutes about their positions on both trade and immigration  —   and they have yet to attack each other. ’ ’9:12 p. m. EST: Kasich said he would possibly be ”running for president of Croatia” at the moment if his family wasn’’t able to immigrate to the United States.’ ”The clock is ticking for Donald Trump’s primary. ..”