’’ ’When  earlier this week, it felt like the social network was hoping for a ”third time’’s the charm” effect in its ongoing efforts to rival Snapchat.’ ’Since 2012, Facebook has tried to play   with features from wildly popular messaging app, and this new acquisition highlights ’ ’Since Snapchat first started hooking millennials in late 2011, Facebook has repeatedly, and unsuccessfully, tried to mimic some of its most alluring features.’ ’ an app that let users send   photos and videos. The company  a year and a half later. So Facebook tried again with  in 2014, which was reportedly built . The app  and in December, it  too.’ ”And Facebook didn’t just try to build Snapchat clones. It  but CEO Evan Spiegel turned Zuck down both times.” ”Facebook says that it plans to keep Masquerade as a   app while also . How exactly it will do that remains to seen, but the Masquerade features will likely start showing up in Facebook’s video products, an area where it’s putting a lot of focus.” ”Snapchat now has  with far fewer monthly active users and a more   viewing experience. (On Snapchat, users have to    video content while Facebook’s videos autoplay. )” ’ are up five times from this time last year.’ ’Facebook video, too, has  Even more recently, Facebook has started putting huge focus on its  that offers much more of the immediacy and ephemerality of the Snapchat experience.’ ’Nick Cicero, the CEO of  which specializes in Snapchat analytics, says that Facebook reached out in January for information about Snapchat influencers and viewership. The two companies did not enter into a business agreement.’ ’ also approached celebrities and other top creators, offering to pay them to use its Live product, .’ ’Although Snapchat is still in the early stages of monetizing its ”Discover” and ”Live” stories, they are  because they are   and   with a 100%  audience. More than normal Facebook videos, Live streams have that same sense of immediacy and engagement.’ ’As both companies seek to develop the right monetization model for their   offerings, Snapchat . Sriram Krishnan, who founded the  that’ ’’ ’’ ’When Facebook acquired   app. ..’