’’ ’The   economy is starting to show its cracks, and companies are falling apart in an environment where funding is suddenly hard to find and    margin businesses are facing tighter scrutiny.’ ’On Tuesday, Bay Area   business SpoonRocket  after it was unable to raise money after more than a week of rumors that the company was looking for a   buyer. TechCrunch  the shutdown.’ ”Rival Sprig took a hard look at the company, but decided to pass on buying it, according to multiple sources familiar with the situation. The intellectual property and other company assets didn’t justify an acquisition, one person involved said. SpoonRocket didn’t employ its delivery drivers, who worked as independent contractors, so they could not be acquired as part of a deal.” ”Sprig did formalize a partnership and money changed hands amid the shutdown, but that was more of a marketing play to attract SpoonRocket’s customers, the person added. A memo to SpoonRocket drivers also pointed them to join Sprig, although Sprig’s structure of employing drivers means that they will have to interview.” ’A Sprig spokeswoman would not comment or acknowledge any acquisition talks, but did confirm the partnership between the two. SpoonRocket did not return multiple requests for comment in the last week.’ ”Sprig’s spokeswoman said:” ’New customers coming from SpoonRocket also get a discount as part of the transition.’ ”SpoonRocket’s shutdown comes at a time when the     economy is starting to see pivots.” ’Valet company Zirx moved entirely away from parking consumer cars at a push of a button. Its rival, Luxe, is also experimenting with its business and starting to give the option to schedule car returns instead of doing strictly   and making it as easy as hailing an Uber, according to a report in .’ ’In the food space, which has been overrun with companies for years, more startups are turning away or shutting down. Uber rival Ola closed its   arm. Startup Good Eggs closed in several cities. Meanwhile, Uber is entering into the competition, adding another   player in an already way too crowded space.’ ”SpoonRocket founder Steven Hsiao wrote in the company’s goodbye note that the competition among startups combined with a bad funding environment led to the sudden shutdown.” ’”We explored all strategic options till the very last minute but unfortunately, they all fell through,” he wrote.’ ’The   economy is starting to show its. ..’