’’ ”Oracle has been under attack for the last couple of days, and Oracle cofounder Larry Ellison told Wall Street analysts that he’s neither surprised nor particularly worried.” ’Still, maybe he should be.’ ”Microsoft made a direct play for Oracle’s customers by ” ”When you dig into the offer, it requires customers to sign up for Microsoft’s cloud database as well as for its version of an extended warranty, known as Software Assurance.” ”Also this week, Amazon announced that its   service  This is the  Database Migration Service (DMS) the company  that it promises will easily move Oracle’s customers to its database in the AWS cloud.” ’In fact, Microsoft’’s offer seems to be aimed at customers contemplating moving to Amazon, since its database has historically been less expensive than Oracle, and Microsoft’’s offer also includes a ”migration tool. ”’ ’Meanwhile, Oracle . While its   business is growing nicely, revenues for its   software, including the database that Microsoft and Amazon are attacking, were down 11% in constant currency, and that’’s ”3% below Street expectations,” says analyst Joel Fishbein from BTIG.’ ’When asked about about Microsoft and Amazon, Ellison answered with a shrug:’ ’Ellison said that it’’s not just a matter of moving from one database to another: ”If you want to move to an Amazon database, and they have a couple, you have to rewrite your app, that’’s a huge barrier. ”’ ’And he’’s historically been right. That kind of ”stickiness” with its database is what caused Oracle to grow into the market leader.’ ’But the new ”migration tools” Microsoft and Amazon offer as part of their offers could make that whole process easier.’ ’Microsoft Cloud and Enterprise Corporate VP Takeshi  that its offer has generated a lot of excitement among Oracle customers: ”The  I’’ve seen in their customers has been very high. ”’ ’Meanwhile, at the very moment Ellison was downplaying Amazon, the company had issued a press release announcing that, during the beta phase alone,  have already taken Amazon up on the offer and jumped ship from Oracle to AWS.’ ’Oracle has been under attack for the last. ..’