’’ ’A jury has ruled against a    graduate of the  who claimed that the school defrauded her when she attended nearly a decade ago, .’ ”A San Diego, California, jury ruled   in favor of the school, handing a victory to TJSL  —   since civil cases in that state don’t require a unanimous jury vote.” ’During the trial, a lawyer for the TJSL graduate, Anna Alaburda, argued that the school promoted a misleading employment rate for its graduates. That lawyer claimed TJSL neglected to disclose that many graduates it touted as ”employed” were actually working in hair salons or bookstores, or even selling tractors, as the .’ ’The school defended itself by arguing that Alaburda had at one point turned down work and by contending that many of its graduates have successful careers in law.’ ’The   Alaburda case is noteworthy.’ ’It was the first case to go to trial that accused a law school of using    figures and salaries to defraud applicants.’ ’Graduates of law schools filed  proposed   lawsuits in 2011 and 2012 alone, according to The Wall Street Journal. These suits claimed that the schools defrauded graduates into thinking employment prospects were rosier than they really were.’ ’When contacted for comment on Thursday,  a lawyer for Alaburda, did not mention whether his client would appeal the jury verdict.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”As Business Insider has previously reported, TJSL  for aspiring lawyers who can’t get into more competitive schools.” ”But for her part, Alaburda claimed that her law school did not give her the tools she needed to succeed in the legal profession, on which she set her sights after graduating from New York University with a bachelor’s degree in 2002.” ’She decided on the San   TJSL after reading about its postgraduation statistics in its marketing brochures and in US News & World Report in 2003, .’ ’US News & World Report said that ”80. 1 percent of students [at TJSL] were employed nine months after graduation,” according to the suit.’ ’For comparison, Yale Law School, rated the No. 1 law school in the nation by US News, has a  according to 2016 statistics.’ ’Alaburda excelled at TJSL, graduating in the top tier of her class, according to a story about her case . She also passed the bar exam on her first attempt. She graduated from the school in 2008.’ ’But despite her academic successes, she said, Alaburda has been unable to find   employment as a lawyer.’ ’She has sent her résumé to more than 150 law firms and received only one job offer, which ”was less favorable than   related jobs that were available to her,” the suit says.’ ’In addition, Alaburda said, she graduated with $150, 000 in   debt  —   a figure that has since ballooned to $170, 000 when accounting for interest.’ ’A jury has ruled against a    graduate. ..’