’’ ’A Frenchman in the ”advanced stages” of a new plot to attack the country was arrested Thursday northwest of Paris, and security forces locked down the area during a major search, France’’s interior minister said.’ ’Bernard Cazeneuve said ”there were no links at this stage” between the plot and the attacks against Brussels this week or Paris in November.’ ’Cazeneuve said bomb squads were on site. The raid took place in Argenteuil, on the northern outskirts of the French capital. He noted that the person arrested was implicated at a ”high level” in the plot, but he offered no details.’ ’’ ’ that the man detained was convicted in absentia in Belgium last July along with the suspected ringleader of the  Abdelhamid Abaaoud.’ ’AFP sources say the man, identified only as  was found guilty of being part of a jihadist network planning to go to Syria.’ ’The French news network iTele  that the man was in possession of guns and explosives.’ ’Video from the raid shows members of a French   squad proceeding through Argenteuil.’ ’’ ” ’t’t’t[VIDEO] Perquisition et opération de déminage dans cet immeuble d’Argenteuil  ” ’The suspect had been under police surveillance for several months, The Guardian reported.’ ’Witnesses told iTele that the immediate area had been locked down, and residents were unable to return home.’ ’France has been on high alert since the November 13 attacks in Paris that killed 130 people and injured hundreds. Cazeneuve said there had been 75 arrests since the beginning of the year, and 28 suspects had been jailed.’ ’A    resident of the neighborhood described seeing heavily masked and armed officers surround the entrance to an apartment building before entering and emerging with the suspect, his head covered in a scarf.’ ’’ ’”Police told us to get out of the way, it’’s dangerous,” the resident said, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the tense situation in the neighborhood.’ ’”We are all shocked,” he said. ”We’’re asking us how this could have happened. ”’ ’A Frenchman in the ”advanced stages” of a new. ..’