’’ ”The Jalisco Nueva Generación cartel  —   one of Mexico’s strongest and   criminal organizations  —   is moving into Baja California, just across the border from the US,  from the Mexican attorney general’s office.” ’It seems increasingly likely that the CJNG, as the cartel is known, is challenging the powerful Sinaloa cartel for control of   territory there.’ ”The  from Gualberto Ramírez Gutiérrez, the head of the kidnapping unit within the Mexican attorney general’s office, came after the apprehension of Marco Tulio Carrillo Grande, a former Tijuana policeman who was believed to be working as the head of the Sinaloa cartel’s hit men in Baja California.” ’Carrillo Grande is  deadly attacks on both the Jalisco cartel and the Arellano Felix organization, two organizations with which the Sinaloa cartel is vying for control of the Tijuana plaza, or trafficking territory.’ ’Carrillo Grande ”is identified as responsible for coordinating the aggressions of the criminal organization to which he belonged against a rival group with which [Carrillo Grande’’s organization] is disputing the Baja California zone, which has provoked the current spiral of violence in that region,” ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Tijuana’s homicide rate  from 28 per 100, 000 residents in 2012 to 39 per 100, 000 in 2015, which made it the  in the world that year, according to a Mexican think tank.’ ’  homicides were more than  last year. Moreover, Dibble  71 homicides in January were the most the city has seen in the first month of the year since 2010.’ ’State officials were  that the rise in killings (which has occurred alongside a drop in other common crimes) is the result of organized criminal activity  —   and of CJNG’s ambitions.’ ’Violence has gone ”up because a third group” that had not previously been in the city ”is in the process of becoming established,” the state’s deputy attorney general for organized crime, José María Gonzalez,  Dibble.’ ’The Sinaloa cartel  —   thought to be   —   and the Arellano Felix organization have competed for control over the Tijuana plaza for most of the last 20 years, with the Sinaloa cartel dominant for much of that time.’ ’’ ”The arrival of the CJNG  —   one of North America’s   —   on the scene in the northwest Mexican city has the potential to increase the bloodshed, as the recent months have shown.” ”A relative newcomer on Mexico’s narco scene,  around 2010, reportedly from the remnants of a trafficking organization headed by Ignacio Coronel, an ally of Guzmán’s Sinaloa cartel (and reportedly ) in Jalisco state in southwest Mexico.” ’Since then, the CJNG has established itself as one of the most fearsome cartels in Mexico, seizing control of much of southwest Jalisco state, corrupting many police forces, and .’ ’’ ’There have been rumors that . After Guzmán’s escape from prison in July, it was reported that .’ ’While it has been hard to parse exactly what kind of relationship exists between the CJNG and Sinaloa cartels, rumors of CJNG expansion in to Sinaloa territory may be the latest development in a trend toward open conflict.’ ’“It was usually thought they were collaborators, that Jalisco was a junior partner with Sinaloa,”said Alejandro Hope, the security and justice editor for El Daily Post, during  in Washington, DC, in late January.’ ’”But more increasingly there’’s the sense that they’’re rivals, and that   …     they’’re fighting, at least in some areas. ”’ ’The Jalisco Nueva Generación cartel. ..’