’The US Justice Department said on Monday that it had managed to access encrypted information stored on the iPhone belonging to one of the San Bernardino shooters, ending a contentious standoff between the government and Apple. ’ ’’ ”According to the DOJ, the reason it withdrew is because it was successfully able to access the data on the iPhone without Apple’s help.” ’Magistrate Judge Sheri Pym vacated the original order.’ ’Apple had vigorously fought the government’’s order to help it access the data by developing special software, arguing that it would effectively create a ”backdoor” that compromised the security of its products. But the fact that the FBI was apparently able to get the encrypted data without Apple’’s help raised new questions about the strength of the security of Apple’’s devices. ’ ’Last week, the DOJ  because the FBI said it had found a ” ” that may have been able to get into shooter Syed Farook’’s iPhone, meaning that Apple’’s help would not be needed. Monday’’s developments indicate that the FBI was successful.’ ’The :’ ’’ ”It is still unclear what the government did to access the data on Farook’s phone. Speculation about the third party has centered on an experimental technique called  and an Israeli company,  that specializes in   tools.” ’Apple lawyers said last week that they did not know the technique the FBI was using and said that they would seek to force the FBI to reveal it.’ ”An FBI spokesman declined to reveal what data was found on Farook’s iPhone or how law enforcement gained access in a phone call with reporters.” ”Monday’s developments mark the end to a saga that began when a court order directing Apple to help the FBI bypass a   security measure on Farook’s iPhone was unsealed. Apple appealed not only in court documents, but in  posted on Apple’s site, turning the legal battle into a public dispute.” ’Since then, the two sides have exchanged a volley of barbed legal filings, often loaded with hyperbolic language. The DOJ called Apple’’s stance ”corrosive.” Cook said the FBI wanted Apple to create ”the software equivalent of cancer” during a TV interview.’ ’The FBI was seeking to force Apple to write software that would allow investigators to try as many passcodes needed to unlock the device without tripping a security measure on the phone that would automatically erase any information on the device.’ ”Here’s the status report the FBI filed that says that it had successfully accessed the data on Farook’s iPhone and requesting that the original court order be vacated:” ’An Apple spokesman issued this statement: ’ ’The US Justice Department said on Monday that. ..’