’’ ’Medical researchers have finally gone and run the study on   startup  that observers have been waiting for.’ ’A team from the  took a group of volunteers to have their blood tested at Theranos. To evaluate the results, they ran the same tests at Quest and LabCorp, the two companies that have long dominated   testing.’ ’The team behind the study says that they found issues with certain Theranos tests, but that in other cases Theranos test results were roughly equivalent to the results from the other two major labs.’ ”Once the subject of adoring media coverage, Elizabeth Holmes’ company has come under fire as serious doubts have surfaced about  along with .” ’Many commenters have asked ”Why not just walk in, get a blood test, and compare the results?” But comparing the accuracy of new tests to existing lab services is more complicated than that. You need to run hundreds or thousands of tests before you can really assess how accurate a diagnostic test is.’ ”So when this group of medical researchers who specialize in understanding big data wanted to know how good Theranos’ tests were and realized that there was no data, they decided to run a study on Theranos themselves.” ’”It got odd, to the point that it’’s like, ’’Well, that’’s really weird,’’” says Eric Schadt, the founding director of the Icahn Institute at Mount Sinai. So he says that he and coauthor Joel Dudley decided: ”Let’’s do the test. ”’ ’They published their results on March 28 .’ ’Schadt says that certain Theranos tests regularly returned results that were far enough off that they could result in unnecessary clinical decisions, affecting patient care and medical research.’ ’But he says that for many of the things they tested, Theranos results were ”much more in line with the others than they are out of line. ”’ ’Even more interestingly, he says that ”there was as much variability between LabCorp and Quest as there was between Theranos and LabCorp or Theranos and Quest. ”’ ’In other words, Theranos has problems, but no blood test is perfect and the labs that people have long used frequently return results with some degree of variation.’ ”Theranos disputes the study’s findings.” ’Daniel Young, a Theranos vice president and lab director of the company’’s Scottsdale facility, tells Tech Insider that it’’s still compiling a list of issues that it has with the study. But he says that ”we believe that some basic factors in the way the samples were collected could account for some of the differences that we’’re seeing. ”’ ’Schadt, Dudley, a group from Mount Sinai, and one Arizona researcher recruited 60 healthy adult volunteers. They selected 22 common lab tests that they knew Theranos would administer with just a finger prick, in theory taking advantage of the microfluidic technology that first made the company famous for running tests on just a single drop of blood.’ ’’ ”They didn’t talk to Theranos about what they planned to do before the study. Schadt says they decided against it at the time because they didn’t want to give the impression that the company was influencing the results.” ’They ran the study between July 27 and July 31 of 2015, when Theranos  for tests other than its one   test for herpes.’ ”The team split the 60 volunteers, 33 women and 27 men who ranged in age from 19 to 71, into groups of about five. On testing days, volunteers didn’t eat and avoided exercise, so as not to influence results. Coordinators took them to a   Walgreens with a Theranos testing center inside. They took several samples of each individual’s blood outside and took the individuals inside to get the full suite of 22 tests. Then they went to another Walgreens Theranos location and repeated the process.” ’At one point, Schadt says that their New York team got a call from their Arizona coordinator, saying that a Theranos executive had shown up to ask why they were running so many tests.’ ’But at the time, since they wanted to finish testing before tipping the company off, they said that they were part of a wellness institute that was focused on using testing to better understand health. Schadt says they even checked results that came in after the interruption to see if testing had become more precise in some way, but there were no observable changes.’ ’The team drew enough blood from volunteers to have reference labs Quest and LabCorp run three tests for each individual Theranos test. The study included a total of 2, 640 Theranos results and 7, 920 results each for Quest and LabCorp  —   enough, Schadt says, to compare the results to each other.’ ’For most blood tests, results vary day to day, so there’’s a range where results are considered ”normal.” The study found that Theranos was 1. 6 times as more likely to find results outside those ranges than either LabCorp or Quest, reporting results either above or below a normal range 12. 2% of the time, compared to 8. 3% of the time for LabCorp and 7. 5% of the time for Quest.’ ’’ ”It is worth pointing out that  found that not all drops of blood extracted using just a finger prick are exactly the same. Some give different results for blood tests than others, which could explain some of Theranos’ variation but also raises new questions about how feasible   blood tests are.” ”Theranos was more likely to reject blood samples, something that in   circumstances could mean a person has to return to the pharmacy to get tested again. Theranos reported no data for 2. 2% of samples, compared to 0. 2% for LabCorp and 0% for Quest. Technicians  when drawing a drop of blood with a finger prick and there wouldn’t be enough backup material to rerun a test, though we don’t know if that is the responsible factor here.” ’Young says that methodological issues could explain why Theranos found more ”abnormal” results and why they rejected more blood samples. He says that each lab may calculate what’’s normal in their own way, and so  —   depending on the test  —   a number that looks ”out of range” to one lab might be normal to another.’ ’”Each laboratory essentially establishes or verifies their own reference range,” since depending on what specifically is being tested and the way it’’s being analyzed, a different result may be expected, according to Young.’ ”Strange as that may sound, that’s not unusual, according to independent experts.” ’’ ’”That is true for many [tests],” says Dr. David Koch, former president and current board member of the American Association for Clinical Chemistry and a professor at Emory University. ”But it’’s not necessarily true for the lipid tests that this study points out as one of the main issues for Theranos. ”’ ’The company performed most differently from the other services with   tests that measure cholesterol. In this study, Theranos consistently reported results about 10% lower than the other two reference labs, something the authors say would exceed federal regulators’’ ”allowable error” margin. This could mean that someone who should be on medication for high cholesterol could get a result that tells them they are OK, which has clinical implications.’ ”Koch says the study does an important thing in pointing out that there’s a certain amount of variation that’s to be expected in many tests. But lipid tests, for cholesterol, are some of the few tests that are measured on a standard that’s generally internationally agreed upon, according to Koch.” ’Young says that the ways the researchers interpreted the results could have made cholesterol results appear more abnormal than they are and that since their test is a unique one, it is going to return slightly different results.’ ”The Theranos team also argues that doing   tests after drawing blood from someone’s arm could have made it more likely that samples would be rejected.” ’”I don’’t buy that,” says Koch.’ ’Others agree. ”I can’’t see how that would make a difference,” says Alan Wu, chief of the clinical chemistry and toxicology laboratories at San Francisco General Hospital. Still, Theranos says its internal data shows lower rejection rates.’ ’A few differences aside,   results between the companies were fairly comparable. For 15 of the 22 tests, there was significant variation in the results between LabCorp, Quest, and Theranos. LabCorp consistently returned lower values for    count, while Theranos consistently reported higher counts of certain white blood cells. For the most part, these variations fit into the normal, allowable range.’ ”And as Young points out, this study just compares what Theranos found to what Quest and LabCorp found. We don’t actually know what result was the most accurate.” ’Schadt says that, problems aside, the results show that Theranos is at least ”on the right path,” and that perhaps if the company had been more open with its data in the first place it may have been able to fix some of its issues already.’ ’’ ”We still don’t have a complete, easy answer to the original question: Do Theranos’ tests work?” ”Since the Mount Sinai team didn’t coordinate with Theranos, they didn’t know for sure that all the Theranos tests were actually run on proprietary Theranos technology, which raised some questions about the best way to interpret results.” ’Theranos representatives have confirmed to Tech Insider that these tests were all run on Theranos technology.’ ”Schadt says they had reached out to Theranos since the study to confirm details of the study, but says that the company was not responsive. In a letter that Theranos sent to the Journal of Clinical Investigation that Tech Insider has reviewed, Theranos disputes that and says that it’s confirmed that no Theranos executive received an email from Schadt.” ”Tech Insider has seen screenshots of LinkedIn messages that Schadt sent to Theranos COO and President Sunny Balwani and to Patrick O’Neill, chief creative officer of Theranos, though we haven’t been able to confirm whether or not those messages arrived in the email inboxes of those executives.” ’’ ”Still, even if these results tell us that some of Theranos’ tests work  —   or don’t  —   that’s perhaps even a bigger reason to study the rest of its tests.” ”The Mount Sinai team ran 22 different tests, but Theranos offers more than 100. They didn’t run the tests for vitamin D, prostate cancer, and thyroid hormones that were  in The Wall Street Journal report that cited former Theranos employees, and so it’s possible that the company still has problems with those tests  —   and potentially with many others. Or they could be within a normal range.” ”Outside experts say they think these results don’t look great for Theranos.” ”Wu says that it’s perfectly possible that some Theranos tests work much better than others, but if that’s the case, then a doctor who needs to get a number of tests done won’t want to send a patient to a Theranos center just for certain tests.” ’ a professor of laboratory medicine and pathobiology at the University of Toronto who  points out that the study is just a snapshot of Theranos performance at one point in time, and that you’’d want to see how effective its tests are over months or years if you could. But for now, he says, ”this paper outlines that low volume blood collection via finger prick (Theranos nanotainer) is not as good as standard venipuncture” . .. for now, at least.’ ’”This article at least is pointing out that there are some systematic biases and this is rather striking,” says Koch.’ ’Still, Schadt says that ”at the end of the day, you just want to know: How much confidence can I have in that result?” He doesn’’t think the results necessarily look bad for Theranos.’ ’He’’s not negative on what Theranos is trying to do and says that allowing people to get more health data and trying new ways of doing things is a good thing. But he wonders why it’’s taken so long to figure out whether or not they work: ”The biggest surprise to me is, why did nobody else do this? ”’ ’Asked about their biggest error, Schadt says it’’s ”the thought that you don’’t have to engage the medical community . .. to help calibrate and validate. ”’ ”Elizabeth Holmes has said Theranos considers the US Food and Drug Administration the ultimate arbiter of accuracy, but Schadt says that that isn’t enough.” ’He says:’ ’Medical researchers have finally gone and run. ..’