Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: •   Donald J. Trump is continuing to build his cabinet. Members of his transition effort’s economic and domestic policy teams are expected to begin meeting with agency officials today. He has hinted strongly that James N. Mattis, a retired general who helped lead the 2003 invasion of Iraq, will be defense secretary. Here are the latest transition details. _____ • Mr. Trump’s meetings with business leaders since his election, including three Indian real estate executives last week, have raised questions over his conflicts of interests. The Indian business partners are building Trump Towers Pune, a luxury apartment complex south of Mumbai. _____ • Mr. Trump  used Twitter to rail at his satirists and critics in the entertainment industry. But Vice   Mike Pence said he was not offended when the cast of the Broadway smash “Hamilton” appealed to him from the stage to uphold the rights of a “diverse America. ” Above, Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence attended church on Sunday. Our theater critic argues that airing dissent is part of the purpose of art. _____ • World leaders are discussing trade and the incoming administration of Mr. Trump at the annual   Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Lima, Peru. The death of the   Trade Partnership is a triumph for China, which is embracing the possibility of an   trade deal that could include Russia. On the meeting’s sidelines, President Obama spoke with Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, about Syria, where the last few hospitals in the   area of Aleppo have been forced to stop providing care.. _____ • South Korea’s political crisis escalated sharply after prosecutors named  President Park   a “criminal suspect,” saying she acted as an accomplice to her longtime adviser in extorting tens of millions of dollars. Ms. Park is rejecting rivals’ calls to step down or be impeached, while supporters, including a former prime minister, are denouncing the case as a “witch hunt. ” _____ • Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, widely seen as one of the last pillars of Western liberalism, will run for a fourth term. Ms. Merkel, 62, faces strong challenges on the right and left, under the stresses of war in Syria, the arrival of large numbers of migrants and the euro crisis. _____ • The execution of an impoverished farmer, above, for the murder of a village chief has infuriated many ordinary Chinese. The perception that it as yet another harsh punishment meted out to the poorest and weakest members of society is undermining President Xi Jinping’s efforts to restore confidence in the courts. • India’s economy is in chaos, as citizens scramble to spend, save or launder their “black money,” stashes of cash that are mostly in the large denominations Prime Minister Narendra Modi banned. • John Paulson, a hedge fund billionaire who has advised Mr. Trump, has taken an investment stake in Didi Chuxing, the Chinese   company that has backing from Alibaba Group and Apple. • The durian season is here, a month early. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • More than 100 people died in the derailment of India’s   Express train, one of the country’s worst train accidents in years. [The New York Times] • A leader of Malaysia’s reform movement, Maria Chin Abdullah, has become the first person to be detained under the country’s controversial new security law, under which she can be held for up to 28 days without trial. [Straits Times]  • Tens of thousands of people joined weekend protests organized by Ms. Abdullah’s group, Bersih, to demand the resignation of Prime Minister Najib Razak. [The New York Times] • President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines continued his harsh criticism of Western powers in his first meeting with his acknowledged hero, Vladimir V. Putin. [Al Jazeera English] • An annual conference in Washington gathered many white nationalists of the     movement. They celebrated Mr. Trump’s election as elevating their fight to preserve white culture. [The New York Times] • In China, a retired music professor is being groomed to be the country’s Trump impersonator. [The New York Times] • The gangs that make El Salvador the murder capital of the world are not sophisticated global cartels but mafias of the poor. [The New York Times] • The political climate in Taiwan has never been more favorable for efforts to legalize   marriage. [The New York Times] • Tokyo’s famous Tsukiji Fish Market is still in operation despite being, in the words of the former official who planned to move it, “too old, too small, too dirty and too dangerous. ” [South China Morning Post] • Our Daily 360: Goat yoga is a thing. More than 600 people signed up to a waiting list before the first classes in near Portland, Ore. even started. • A stunning finish to the Macau Grand Prix: A Belgian driver, Laurens Vanthoor, emerged unscathed from a fiery, soaring wreck to find he had won the race upside down. • The Times asked 15 American families to show us the Thanksgiving holiday dishes that speak most eloquently about their heritage and traditions. Among them: Filipino bibingka, Dudhi kofta curry and Cantonese turkey. Let’s start the week traveling the world using sports team nicknames as our passport. The N. F. L. ’s Detroit Lions will continue their long tradition of playing on Thanksgiving. Regal cats aren’t native to the Motor City, but the name was meant to inspire the team to be “the monarch of the league. ” Dreams that the Midwest might one day be tropical may have inspired the team’s use of the Honolulu Blue shade for its jerseys. A more fitting nod to weather can be found at the University of Hawaii, where the teams are sometimes called the Rainbow Warriors. The colorful phenomenon supposedly appeared after a big football victory in 1923. Battle imagery is also a popular and the names aren’t always menacing. The   Fighters honor the meatpacking company that owns the Japanese baseball club. In West Africa, Elephants (Ivory Coast) Sparrowhawks (Togo) and Squirrels (Benin) are some of the   nicknames that have been used to represent national soccer teams. Back in Asia, Bhutan’s underdog squad has a fearsome moniker: the Dragon Boys. The mythical beast also appears on the national jersey for Wales. As for whales, they’re rarely used in sports. But 100 years ago a baseball team called itself the Whales. Their home, like lions in Detroit, was also unlikely: Chicago. Sean Alfano contributed reporting.  _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.