’Oil began its calamitous slide in   and there’s been a lot of speculation since then about when —  and how quickly —  it will recover. By analyzing past oil cycles and their drivers, we can understand what the signs of a sustainable rally might be.’ ’Learning Lessons from Oil’s Past’ ’Since 1985, there have been six oil crashes where the spot price has fallen by more than 20% measured from peak to trough. But not all oil   are the same: the underlying drivers and macro environment, the path of recovery, oil’s correlation with risk assets, and optimal portfolio exposures can vary.’ ’But we can draw some conclusions from analyzing oil’s history.   generally last longer if they are dominated by supply shocks rather than demand shocks. Oil has also had a low correlation to risk assets in these     and they’re a net positive for subsequent global GDP growth.’ ’Regardless of the specific drivers of troughs and their later recoveries in oil markets, the turning points in these cycles generally have had three signs in common:’ ’1. Investor sentiment and positioning turns positive. When a recovery is at hand, investors’ attitudes and actions usually reflect it. The volatility of   contracts declines, speculators’ positioning begins to favor long exposures, and oil’s spot price gains momentum.’ ’2. The   curve flattens. When “prompt” —  or the closest expiring —    prices are lower than prices further out, that tends to indicate   oversupply concerns   a buildup of oil inventory (assuming there’s an   curve, or “contango,” with the prices of   futures higher than those of   futures; the opposite of this is known as “backwardation”). As investors become more confident that fundamentals are improving (e. g. they expect inventory buildup to slow) the curve tends to flatten.’ ’3. Inventory buildups   inventory drawdown starts. When actual oil inventory declines, or even when it builds up less slowly, that can indicate that   growth is slowing or that demand is improving. This can suggest a turning point in the oil cycle.’ ’Oil’s Current Episode: Largely Supply Driven’ ’Supply factors were the main drivers of the current oil   (2014 —  2016) as OPEC shifted its policy in response to growing US   supply in an environment of fairly robust demand. The   was intensified by a strong US dollar and a    impact from potential geopolitical risks.’ ’Oil’s correlation to risk assets has been low this time around, which is consistent with past supply cycles. But this cycle appears to differ in one respect: stress on commodity producers has surfaced quickly, but the benefit to other parts of the global economy has been more subtle and hasn’t materialized completely yet because of a backdrop of anemic pricing power.’ ’Nevertheless, we believe that the trough and recovery signals above would be effective at indicating a turn in the oil cycle. At this point, investor sentiment and positioning has turned positive, and the   yield curve has flattened since February (Display 1).’ ’’ ’Display 2’ ’’ ’Where Do Investors Go from Here?’ ’We think we’ve seen the bottom in oil prices for this cycle. But prices are moving materially right now based on very little fundamental data, which is slowing the recovery process.’ ’From an investment perspective, we think a modest overweight to energy through a combination of assets such as consumer price index swaps,   equities, commodity futures and commodity currencies could be an effective strategy for investors. But it takes research and careful analysis to identify the specific investments that will provide the best balance of risk and return potential.’ ’The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AB   teams.’ ’Oil began its calamitous slide in   and. ..’