’’ ’Back home, his dad, BYU professor Dr. Scott Smith, had been diagnosed with cancer. The prognosis wasn’’t good. His younger brother, Ryan, had moved home to be with his dad. They were working in the basement ”twiddling around on a survey product,” and they asked Smith to help them sell it.’ ’He looked at the product, declared it ”worthless” and built them a new version, which would ultimately become the product used by millions of people and lead the company to big profits and a big valuation.’ ’He also convinced Ryan to change the name of the company to Qualtrics, from a variety of product names it was using. ”Ryan and I got in a fistfight at a restaurant over that,” he laughed.’ ’The brothers and cofounders are opposites in every way; they disagree often, but they rarely come to blows.’ ’They usually fight, dig in, and then compromise, he said. ”Normally, in every argument we’re both right. ”’ ’Meanwhile, his dad made a miraculous recovery thanks to the doctors at the Huntsman Cancer Center. (Qualtrics just donated a $1 million to Huntsman and launched the  campaign. )’ ”With the product built and his dad on the mend, Smith hired the company’s first engineer and told his brother he was leaving again.” ”He didn’t want to work on Qualtrics. ” ’He wanted to travel. He bought a ticket to New Zealand intending to hitchhike through Asia.’ ’Right before he left, Kim Scott called. She was working for Google and was offering him a job that would change his life, and Qualtrics, forever.’ ’The truth was the whole China thing had also worn him out. But when he got to the startup, he said, ”I was bored. A   operation, it took me about 20 minutes a day to manage. ”’ ’But the company ”was a sales machine” and growing. Soon he was back to hiring and scaling.’ ’VCs had also found Qualtrics and were calling. Ryan was ”rude” to them, Smith said, and Ryan confirmed. He saw investors like predatory lenders. ”Why would I want to take on a mortgage?” Ryan Smith remembers telling them. Ryan also  offer.’ ’But eventually Ryan decided that he wanted a board of people who had grown huge tech companies. That meant VCs, and they would want a stake in the company.’ ’Smith hated the idea. ”I thought it was silly to sell any part of the company because it was doing so well, profitably, growing 100% year on year,” he recalled.’ ’So the brothers fought. They dug in. They compromised. ”The detente was if he could raise $100 million, for a small percentage of the company, then we would fund raise,” Smith said.’ ’Ryan got the terms that Smith demanded.’ ’And, looking back, Smith said, ”Ryan was incredibly right.” The cash and the board pushed Qualtrics to grow in new ways. Without it they would have gotten ”fat and lazy,” satisfied with the old product and the profits it generated, Smith admitted.’ ’As for the investors, ”They’ve all done phenomenally well. A dream investment,” he says.’ ’While Qualtrics, a private company, doesn’’t release revenue, and is officially valued at a billion as of its last raise  —   $  —   at one point, Smith told attendees at its annual customer conference last month that it was a ”multibillion” company. It claims over 8, 000 customers. In any case, it’’s still highly profitable.’ ’Jared Smith is one of the most famous names in. ..’