Not all rookie quarterbacks are the same. Here’s what else we learned in Week 11 in the N. F. L.: ■ Dak Prescott is not a product of weak competition. Facing the No. 1 defense in the N. F. L. Prescott, the Dallas Cowboys’ rookie quarterback, had a few poor throws early in the game but recovered to have his second consecutive   effort and added three more touchdown passes. Most impressively, he did it with his offensive line allowing a great deal of pressure and without his customary amount of help from Ezekiel Elliott who had a hard time finding running lanes other than in a big third quarter. ■ Playing quarterback as a rookie is not as easy as Prescott makes it look. Carson Wentz of the Eagles looked lost against Seattle’s defense, Cody Kessler of the Browns once again had to leave because of a concussion, and Jared Goff of the Rams, the player drafted ahead of all of them, finally got his first start and managed just 131 passing yards in a losing effort. ■   are hard now. The play may have been too easy prior to last season, but the rule change that pushed it back to being the equivalent of a   field goal continues to confound  . On Sunday, kickers combined to set an N. F. L. record with 12 misses, breaking the previous mark of 10 that was most recently accomplished in 1985. Mike Nugent of the Bengals and Robbie Gould of the Giants each missed two and even Stephen Gostkowski of the Patriots, who went 52 for 52 in the first year of the change, missed one, giving him three misses for the season. ■ Seattle might be getting scary. The Seahawks’ defense has been stellar all season, but Russell Wilson showed glimpses of his old self, throwing balls downfield, giving himself extra time on passes with his mobility, and even catching a   touchdown pass from Doug Baldwin. If Thomas Rawls and C. J. Prosise can become a    duo at running back, the Patriots and Cowboys might have some real competition to be the best team in the N. F. L. ■ The Browns might also have some competition to be the worst team in the N. F. L. Cleveland is   but the San Francisco 49ers, despite holding the Patriots to just 13 points through three quarters, ended up allowing 30 in the loss. It was the seventh time this season that the 49ers allowed 30 or more points, and it was the team’s ninth consecutive loss after a    shutout victory over Los Angeles in Week 1. Sadly the 30 points improved San Francisco’s season average which was 31. 4 coming into the game. The rest of the N. F. L. could be in a lot of trouble if Russell Wilson is back to being himself. With his mobility seemingly having returned after injuries had forced him into being a pocket passer for much of the season, Wilson led the way and his team’s defense followed suit as the Seattle Seahawks beat the Philadelphia Eagles,  . Wilson completed 18 of 31 passes for 272 yards, but it was his lone touchdown pass, a   to Jimmy Graham, that was a blast from the past. Facing a great deal of pressure, Wilson broke to his left and outran the defensive line. He looked like he would keep the ball for a run, but without stopping or setting himself to throw, and with linebacker Jordan Hicks in his face, he launched the ball to his right, and Graham caught it for the score. If that was not enough to convince people that Wilson had his legs back, he also engaged in some trickery in the second half, flipping the ball back to Doug Baldwin and then sprinting for the end zone. Baldwin was undeterred by pressure and lofted the ball into the end zone, finding Wilson for a   touchdown pass. Seattle had mixed results in its endless search for a reliable running back. The rookie C. J. Prosise broke free for a   touchdown run in the first quarter, but Prosise, a converted wide receiver making his second career start, was limited to 76 yards on four carries before being forced out of the game by a shoulder injury. There was some room for optimism, however, in the play of Thomas Rawls. The   running back had not played since Week 2 because of injuries, but he carried 14 times for 57 yards. Considering their remarkably different running styles, Prosise and Rawls could seemingly be a strong combination if they are both healthy going forward. The game was far more lopsided than it appeared, with all but seven of Philadelphia’s points coming after the game was essentially decided. Seattle’s defense helped drop the Eagles back to . 500 with a great deal of help from Philadelphia’s rookie quarterback, Carson Wentz. Wentz, who had been praised for much of the year for not showing his inexperience, fell into too many traps, including a play late in the first half when he failed to account for the veteran safety Kam Chancellor as he threw across the field. Chancellor intercepted the pass and ended what looked like a promising drive. Wentz was also intercepted by Richard Sherman in the second half and finished the day with    passing for 218 yards and 2 touchdowns. If there was anything qualifying as bad news for Seattle, it was Earl Thomas and DeShawn Shead leaving the game because of injuries. Thomas, a veteran free safety and       has never missed a game in his   career and his status had not been announced. It seems odd for 1977 to come up so often during Dallas Cowboys games, but with Dak Prescott leading the team to its ninth consecutive win, breaking the franchise record set in 1977, and Ezekiel Elliott passing Tony Dorsett for the franchise record for rushing yards by a rookie, also set that season, the parallels between the seasons are natural. It is a little history lesson for a quarterback born in 1993 and a running back born in 1995. But as for the present day, Sunday’s   victory over the Baltimore Ravens proved the Cowboys can succeed against a top defense even when things are not going their way early in the game. It was Dallas’s first ever win over the Ravens. Prescott, who this week was named the team’s starting quarterback rather than being designated an injury   initially looked lost. The Ravens’   defense was able to get intense pressure from its   forcing punts on Dallas’s first four possessions. The rookie Prescott completed just four of his first 10 passes and was not getting much help from Elliott, who was struggling to find holes against the league’s best rush defense. That all turned around with just under nine minutes left in the second quarter. Down   and facing a    Prescott came alive, tearing down the field for a   run. Over the next five plays, he drove his team 60 yards, tossing an   throw to Cole Beasley for a   touchdown. From that point, a familiar formula of gutsy passes by Prescott and tough runs by Elliott kicked in and Baltimore was powerless to stop it. Prescott ended up completing 27 of 36 passes for 301 yard and 3 touchdowns, topping 300 yards for the second consecutive week. Elliott chipped in with 127 yards from scrimmage and has 1, 102 rushing yards, which tops Dorsett’s 1, 007 in 1977. He is on pace for 1, 763 yards, which would put him just short of Eric Dickerson’s rookie record of 1, 808. Through 10 games, Dickerson had 1, 223. The Ravens, meanwhile, were unable to enjoy Steve Smith becoming the 14th player to top 1, 000 career receptions as the team saw its   winning streak end, and its vaunted defense allowed an uncharacteristic 417 yards. Dallas will try to make it 10 wins in a row when it hosts the Washington Redskins on Thanksgiving. But with 1977 coming up so often, Cowboys fans may already be thinking of how that season ended: A win over the Denver Broncos in Super Bowl XII. Redskins Extend Packers’  : Kirk Cousins threw for 375 yards and three touchdowns to lead Washington to a   victory over Green Bay, which has lost four consecutive games and five of six, allowing 30 or more points in all of those defeats. The Redskins (  ) have won six of their past eight games going into a showdown with the Cowboys, and chants of “We Want Dallas!” filled FedEx Field in the final minutes.  —   Associated Press Giants Improve to  : The Giants played so lifelessly in the first half, the home crowd responded with sustained booing. But they rebounded for a   victory over the Bears to achieve their best record after 10 games since 2008, when they were  . Played in blustery conditions, the game featured three missed extra points, which had not happened in a N. F. L. game since 1993. Read our report here. It was seemingly a mismatch for the ages, with the   New England Patriots traveling to San Francisco to face one of the worst teams in N. F. L. history in terms of points allowed. But somehow the Patriots went into the fourth quarter clinging to a   lead over the 49ers. Things then normalized, with Tom Brady finding Danny Amendola for a   touchdown pass on the first play of the fourth quarter  —   one of his four touchdown passes in the game  —   as the Patriots rolled to a   victory. It was an easy win for New England, but perhaps a satisfying one for Brady, playing in San Francisco for the first time after having grown up a 49ers fan. The weather certainly was not helping New England’s offense in the first three quarters, with rain falling steadily, but the 49ers’ defense, which had previously allowed an N. F. L.  31. 4 points a game, seemed undaunted until it simply had nothing left to give in the final quarter. Brady completed 24 of 40 passes for 280 yards, and LeGarrette Blount contributed 124 rushing yards. Colin Kaepernick threw two touchdowns for San Francisco, but that was not enough to keep the game competitive. The loss and the rain somewhat marred the team’s legendary former owner, Eddie DeBartolo Jr. receiving his Hall of Fame ring at halftime. The stands were largely empty as fans sought out dry concourses rather than seeing the ceremony for the man who owned the team during its run of five Super Bowl wins. The Cleveland Browns ran the team’s losing streak to 11 games by falling to the Pittsburgh Steelers,  . Along the way, the team also lost its starting quarterback, yet again, as Cody Kessler had to leave the game with a concussion and was replaced by Josh McCown. Who was at quarterback for Cleveland hardly seemed to matter as the Pittsburgh defense collected eight sacks, including two and a half by Stephon Tuitt, as the Steelers seemed to have players in the Browns’ backfield on every play. Pittsburgh did not get a lot of production out of Ben Roethlisberger, who threw for just 167 yards, but Le’Veon Bell gave the Steelers all of the offense they needed as he carried the ball 28 times for 146 yards and caught 8 passes for 55 more yards. The Browns will try to end their losing streak next week when they host the Giants. Colts Get Big Division Win: Indianapolis beat the Tennessee Titans,   but saw Adam Vinatieri’s N. F. L. record streak of consecutive field goals made end at 44. The Colts were able to improve to . 500, leapfrogging the Titans into second place in the A. F. C. South, thanks largely to Andrew Luck’s 262 passing yards and 2 touchdowns. That was enough to overcome another great statistical performance by Marcus Mariota of the Titans (25 of 38 passing, 290 yards and 2 touchdowns). But one of the more impressive streaks in league history came to an end in the second quarter when Vinatieri missed a   attempt  . His last miss had come in Week 2 of the 2015 season. Bills end   Slide: Buffalo preserved its hopes of making the playoffs by beating the Cincinnati Bengals,  . The Bengals dropped to    and lost A. J. Green to a hamstring injury. The Bengals had led,   at halftime but managed just five first downs in the second half as Buffalo’s defense held strong and its offense did enough to get a pair of field goals. The win came in spite of a key injury. LeSean McCoy, who ran for a touchdown in the first half, sustained a thumb injury late in the second quarter and did not return.