’’ ”Apple, the world’s most valuable company, isn’t shy about revealing how many of its computers, tablets, phones, and smartwatches are in use:  according to CEO Tim Cook. ” ”But that number isn’t a good reflection of how many users Apple has, because many iPhone users also own a Mac or iPad, for example. ” ’Analysts from Credit Suisse have crunched the numbers and collected some survey data, and have figured out a good starting point for the number of global Apple users.’ ’Apple has 588 million users worldwide, Credit Suisse estimated in a note published on Monday. If there are exactly 1 billion active Apple devices in use, these findings mean the average Apple user owns 1. 7 devices. ’ ’This figure is important as Apple is trying to change its story: The vast majority of its revenue comes from selling premium hardware. But Apple wants to become ”a services company,” like Google or Microsoft, because services provide a lot of the value in using a particular device  —   the best phone in the world with a   mapping service, for instance, isn’’t as useful as a cheaper phone that knows exactly where you are. ’ ’(Those companies also trade at a than Apple does. The PE ratio is the market price of the stock divided by the last four quarters of income. The higher the PE ratio, the more expensive the stock. )’ ”To understand a services business, analysts need to know how many users it has. Credit Suisse looked into products like iTunes, App Store, Apple Music, iCloud, and Apple Pay, and concluded that Apple’s services growth and potential means that the company warrants a higher valuation than it’s currently getting. ” ’In fact, the note estimates that Apple services revenue could more than double by 2020 to $53 billion. Apple bragged that it managed to book $21 billion in services revenue last year, while alluding that that figure by itself was larger than some of its competitors. ( $17. 9 billion in revenue for 2015, for example. )’ ”But it’s not just the size of Apple’s installed base that makes its services an attractive investment. Apple users are significantly richer than   users. According to Credit Suisse:” ’’ ’’ ’So the challenge for Apple is to increase the amount of services revenue it can generate from one of its customers  —   getting him or her to sign up for iCloud storage and Apple Music, for example, which come with monthly fees  —   while still providing good value for its premium computers and phones, which have Apple services baked into the price. ’ ”One problem is that Apple’s services can be unreliable, and have attracted snickers from those who think the company lags behind Google, Microsoft, and Amazon at providing basic software services like data storage.” ’But Apple’’s clearly investing in this field. For example, it’’s planning to open up several data centers and it’’s been hiring distributed computing experts. It reportedly has a effort called ”” to do more of its online computing  . Online services are a critical challenge for the world’’s most valuable company if it wants to become even more valuable. ’ ’Credit Suisse adjusted its target price for Apple to $150 from $140 per share. ’ ”Apple, the world’s most valuable company, isn’t. ..”