’’ ” the city’s Department of Education (DOE) ” ”The proposed   was the first to address   violence in the state’s history, according to a press release from Families for Excellent Schools, another plaintiff in the suit.” ”The complaint alleges that New York City’s public schools, the largest school district in the nation, fail to adequately protect students from violence, and that black and Hispanic students as well as LGBT students are far more likely to be victims of   violence than their peers.” ’The suit also claims that city’’s Education Department perpetuates a system ”characterized by chronic and deliberate indifference to the pervasive violence, intimidation and harassment experienced by their students. ”’ ’Moreover, the suit claims, there is a ”’’blame the victim’’ mentality, which often results in de facto punishment of, or retaliation against, the victims. ”’ ”A representative for the DOE’s  who is also a named defendant in the suit, provided this comment from her:” ’The 11 students, whose ages range from 7 to 14, have their identities protected in the suit, though the complaint included examples of the types of violence they claim to be the victims of.’ ”John Doe No. 2 (JD2) is an    who claims that he was bullied, harassed, and physically harmed by classmates. His parent claims that teachers and administrators knew of the bullying but didn’t do anything to stop it.” ’The bullying caused him to have nightmares and anxiety, and ”his desperation reached its peak on or about December 16, 2015, when he stabbed himself in the ear,” according to the suit.’ ”JD2’s parent also discovered bruising on his leg that the family claims was a result of physical violence from his bully. JD2 was taken to an emergency room in the city to receive medical treatment, but the school did not take any investigative actions, according to the complaint.” ’John Doe No. 3 (JD3) is student who claims that he was thrown down the stairs by his teacher. The teacher initially said that he did not have any physical contact with JD3, and that he was fabricating the incident, according to the suit.’ ’But at a later meeting, the teacher said, ”I had him by the shirt and he tripped down the stairs,” according to the complaint. ’ ’JD3 saw a psychiatrist relating to the alleged abuse and then diagnosed him with   stress disorder, which he still suffers from today, the suit claims.’ ’In a statement, Mayor Bill de Blasio said:’ ’The plaintiffs, who are not seeking monetary damages, are seeking a court injunction that requires the DOE to enforce procedures to keep students safe and investigate acts of violence in schools.’ ’Eleven New York City   students and. ..’