’The hotly debated 1994 crime reforms that former President Bill Clinton signed during his presidency have been both criticized and defended for all the wrong reasons, one   expert says.’ ’The policies neither caused mass incarceration  —   which began far earlier, in the 1970s  —   nor did they have any meaningful impact on   reduction, according to Fordham University professor John Pfaff.’ ’“There’s not any real evidence that prison populations got any bigger because of these laws,” he told Business Insider.’ ’“We were well, well into mass incarceration by that point. ”’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’t4B. To the defenders: no change in federal law affects street crime that much, and the grants all underperformed. ’t’t’ ’The 1994 crime bill is back under public scrutiny after a heated exchange between  at a Philadelphia rally for Hillary Clinton drew media attention and intense backlash on Thursday. Clinton spent more than 10 minutes defending both his policy and his wife’s 1996 use of the term “superpredators” to describe young people accused of committing crime.’ ’“I don’t know how you would characterize gang leaders who got    kids hopped up on crack and sent them out on the street to murder other   children,” he said. “You are defending the people who killed the lives you say matter. Tell the truth. ”’ ’The comments enraged the protestors. One demonstrator held up a sign that read, “Clinton crime bill destroyed our communities. ”’ ’In reality, Pfaff said, Clinton’s reforms targeted federal crimes rather than state ones, which are not prosecuted at nearly as high a rate. Pfaff said the media and the public too often focus on federal legislation, when states and counties hold the real power in prosecuting criminals, running prisons, and lowering   rates.’ ’“There’s very little the feds can do to the states. They can’t tell states what to do. They can’t change state law,” he said.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tDefinitely. The states hold 87% of nation’s prisoners, the feds 13%. State sentencing always matters so much more.  ’ ’While Clinton’s reforms did offer “  ” incentives that offered billions of dollars to states to adopt harsh parole provisions for violent offenders, only  was a key factor in their decision to enact tougher sentencing laws, according to a report from the US General Accounting Office.’ ’The billions of dollars that were allocated for the grants went largely unclaimed, Pfaff said.’ ’On the other side of the debate, those who defend the 1994 bill for its   effect are equally mistaken, Pfaff added. While the bill authorized funding to hire up to a million police officers, it’s unclear how many were hired. Meanwhile, he said, crime rates had already begun to drop by the time the reforms took effect.’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’t3A. Reduced crime? No. Just no. No. No. To start, crime drop stated in 1991, not 1994. No change in trend in 1994.  ’ ’Clinton has since said he regretted his conduct during the encounter with Black Lives Matter protesters, and  for his remarks.’ ’“I know those young people yesterday were just trying to get good television,” he said Friday. “But that doesn’t mean that I was most effective in answering it. ”’ ’The hotly debated 1994 crime reforms that. ..’