’’ ’On November 12, 2014, a man arrived in Canarsie, Brooklyn, expecting to meet a young woman for a date he had arranged online.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Lane said that officers back then would scour their suspects’ Myspace pages and Photobucket accounts, searching for incriminating images that could then be used in a conspiracy indictment to corroborate other evidence of gang ties or organized crime, such as phone calls to and from the Rikers Island prison.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ”Despite prosecutors’ effectiveness in laying charges using social media, the practice is not without its detractors” ”Ronald Goldstock,  earlier this year that prosecutors’ use of social media in conspiracy charges could  down the line, should trials occur.” ’”When you get eighteen or twenty people, it’’s hard to determine the individual culpability of each person. They’’re all writing texts, emails, posting on Facebook,” Goldstock said. ”For a jury to determine who actually did what and how that fits in becomes really difficult. Most people plea out because if you get convicted, it could be 25 years. ”’ ”Lane says that it’s too early at this point to gauge how strongly Facebook posts factor into convictions or sentences, and few legal precedents for   evidence exist.” ”Although similar indictments in states such as  and  have used   evidence to build a case for conspiracy charges, it’s difficult to determine how common the practice is throughout the US. It is clear, however, that prosecutors in New York have increasingly relied on it.” ’I feel like we’’re going to start seeing a lot more   evidence, just because so much of life is entered there. ”’ ”While a presumption of innocence accompanies all charges, Lane said that the indictments alone can be extremely damaging to the accused long before a verdict is reached. Ironically, the damage lies in the indictments’ digital accessibility.” ’”These indictments are really major because they are public. The DA releases a press release at the time, they have people’’s names and birthdates, they become part of the criminal record, they become ” he said. ”There’’s nothing other than the charges at this point, yet it creates this kind of digital record and that can be pretty damaging. ”’