’’ ’It is understandable that Americans focus their attention on the Middle East.’ ’The media supplies a daily stream of news about America’s continued war with the Islamic State, or ISIS.’ ’And the recent attacks in Europe and San Bernardino, have made terrorism a major issue in this year’s election, whether initiated by Jihadists recruited from at home or abroad.’ ’ at the end of last year suggested that a majority of Americans think that President Obama is not taking the threat from ISIS seriously enough.’ ’They believe that an overwhelming use of force would end the threat. Indeed,  suggested that a plurality of those questioned believe the U. S. is losing the war on terrorism.’ ’But is this where Americans should be focusing their attention if they are looking for   threats? As someone who studies security issues, I believe that a recent cluster of events  —   North Korea’s missile and nuclear  China’s uncharacteristic reaction and the comments of G7 officials  —   provides us with some clues.’ ’The fact is that ISIS does not pose what has fashionably been termed an “existential” threat to the United States.’ ’The word existential is increasingly used by politicians and analysts with little regard for its meaning beyond a   threat. But Ted Bromund, a foreign policy analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation, offers this more comprehensive ’ ’An existential threat is one that would deprive the United States of its sovereignty under the Constitution, would threaten the territorial integrity of the United States or the safety within U. S. borders of large numbers of Americans, or would pose a manifest challenge to U. S. core interests abroad in a way that would compel an undesired and unwelcome change in our freely chosen ways of life at home.’ ’Clearly, Jihadism as an ideology can’t do that to Americans. And despite the recent  there is little chance that groups like ISIS can detonate a nuclear weapon in the U. S.’ ’Even the admittedly terrifying release of a dirty bomb wouldn’t kill casualties on a massive scale. As the U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission succinctly  it,’ ’A dirty bomb is not a “Weapon of Mass Destruction” but a “Weapon of Mass Disruption” where contamination and anxiety are the terrorists’ major objectives.’ ’The American public, particularly Republican voters, may continue to focus attention on  but they should be focusing their attention on developments in North Korea. Arguably, the events unfolding there far more threatening.’ ’The U. S. has a long and violent history of struggle with North Korea, dating back to the bloody war that took place in the early 1950s and cost  American lives.’ ’’ ’The truce between the two Koreas was never concluded by a peace agreement. In defense of South Korea, the U. S. has been in a perpetual state of limbo ever since, caught between war and peace.’ ’Most Americans either don’t understand this or don’t care very much, with only 16 percent of Americans polled naming North Korea as America’s “” in a recent survey. But the North Koreans certainly do.’ ’The Demilitarized Zone  —   a  that separates North and South Korea  —   is protected by 37, 000 troops to its south and is home . Indeed, the fact that the U. S. lays mines there is the  often given for its failure to sign the 1998 Global Landmine Treaty.’ ’North Korea is an impoverished country that has been propped up by China, its only major ally, since the end of World War II.’ ’The Chinese don’t want a reunited, more powerful Korea on their doorstep, let alone one allied to the United States. China is North Korea’s  and the Chinese have repeatedly provided diplomatic support to stave off the imposition of U. N. sanctions.’ ’Comprehensive figures on aid or trade with North Korea are hard to find. But the U. N. routinely  to stave off the occasional famine.’ ’North Korea has been brutally ruled by    Kim   for five years. He succeeded his father, Kim   who led the country for 17 years.’ ’To Americans, North Korea seems like a caricature of an evil dictatorship drawn in a Hollywood movie (as indeed it was, controversially, in the 2014 movie “).’ ’It is one they only occasionally hear about, usually when an American foolhardy enough to visit there is detained on charges that baffle most Americans. The North Koreans then extort some prize in exchange for the prisoner’s release. This usually involves the visit of a   dignitary to plea for clemency, ’ ’Just this January, Otto Frederick Warmbier, a visiting American student, was detained in January on the grounds that he had committed a “hostile act” by allegedly removing a political banner from a hotel and  to 15 years of hard labor in March.’ ’To many Americans, then, North Korea seems an appalling place. But they regard it as distant, backward and relatively harmless.’ ’They are wrong.’ ’North Korea’s leadership has seen  —   and still does see  —   the United States as its mortal enemy. And, unlike ISIS, it is developing into a viable one.’ ’In 1993, a conflict over North Korea’s proposed testing of nuclear weapons generated a  that almost resulted in a war. A deal was eventually struck with the U. N. But this just delayed the inevitable.’ ’Unlike the Iranians, North Korea moved ahead and began testing nuclear weapons  in defiance of a U. N. agreement. Since then, they have reputedly carried out  the most recent being in January this year.’ ’Skeptics have consistently suggested that there is a difference between causing a nuclear explosion and being able to miniaturize the technology to put it is a missile head able to reach the American mainland. But in the last few months, the North Koreans have launched ’ ’And on April 9 they claimed to have successfully tested an engine designed for an intercontinental ballistic missile. This engine, they claim, would  the ability of North Korea to launch a nuclear strike on the U. S. mainland. To emphasize the point, they also recently released  depicting a nuclear strike on Washington.’ ’Now that does sound like an existential threat.’ ’It is anyone’s guess . South Korean officials  that it is a possibility. And it is just as unclear if they have developed a missile that can reach the U. S. mainland.’ ’The fact is, however, that the North Koreans’ bellicose behavior is making even their traditional Chinese allies nervous. China has now  against its traditional ally. And  —   in a first  —   the two are engaged in an uncharacteristic public  with Beijing staunchly opposing its ally’s pursuit of nuclear weapons.’ ’This behavior is scaring North Korea’s other neighbors as well.’ ’The concluding statement at the G7 foreign ministers’ meeting in Japan this week  North Korea’s nuclear and missile testing.’ ’Of course Kim   may just be adopting an aggressive posture in order to ward off an American preemptive assault. But, if that is the case, he is taking a very big risk.’