”Victoria’s Secret has a stronghold on the lingerie market.” ’Its store sales this year amassed over $6. 1 billion.’ ”But one expert is saying that Victoria’s Secret’s explosive success might start tumbling because of the   demographic of millennials and their changing attitudes.” ’Retail analyst Nikki Baird of research firm RSR recently wrote on  that she thinks that ”Victoria’’s Secret may be next” when it comes to brands that millennials will ultimately dethrone.’ ’She wrote that she ”’ ’’ ’’ ’In fact, even Abercrombie & Fitch has been working voraciously to ; it appears to be a part of its  efforts. Logos are still present,  but they are less abundant than they were previously. ’ ”To Victoria’s Secret’s benefit, the company’s core products are worn underneath clothing, which could potentially save it from this possible burden. However, Baird points to its younger sister brand, PINK, which sells lots of clothing emblazoned with the PINK logo. ” ’’ ’”The product images on their website tend to reinforce a very specific body image that is not representative of the ’’’’ woman’s form, and frankly, are only marginally inclusionary from a diversity perspective too,” Baird writes.’ ”This has arguably been one of the biggest problems plaguing Victoria’s Secret. Body positivity is on the rise, and it has even . Victoria’s Secret’s entire brand positioning is based on ideals, rather than accepting the status quo  —   which is incongruent with what young consumers want.” ’The brand has faced backlash for its idealism. Its ”Perfect Body” campaign received  that the retailer ultimately had to .’ ’Separately, brands that eschew norms have thrived. For instance, Lane Bryant has become practically synonymous with its ” which sent a clear message to Victoria’’s Secret’’s   models  —   or perhaps more importantly, to those who will never be said   models: that they’’re beautiful, too.’ ”Another brand that has been leading the charge is Aerie, which has seen skyrocketing sales with its. Its spokesmodel, has proven that beauty doesn’t need to look a certain way. The rapid ascent of  has proven that even some of the most surprising publications  —     publications like Sports Illustrated’s swimsuit edition and   —   do not define beauty with one size.” ”But Victoria’s Secret’s Angels have been an central part of the company’s marketing strategies. The company has honed a methodology that makes its models some of the most successful in the world.” ’Richard Habberley of DNA Model Management . ’ ’Could all of those efforts be unseated thanks to. ..millennials?’ ’’ ’Millennials love brands that boast their . This is one reason Toms has become so popular. Even Abercrombie & Fitch has launched an   campaign,  too.’ ”But, as Baird writes, Victoria’s Secret doesn’t really have a soapbox, save for any philanthropic efforts from its parent company, L Brand. More so, she points to several causes the brand could easily stand for, including breast cancer and safety on college campuses for women  —   making it all the more jarring that the company chooses not to have a clear set of established values and causes for which it stands.” ”Victoria’s Secret has long been revered for withstanding the current retail climate, one in which most   .” ’It would arguably take a lot to disband such a powerhouse, but millennials are who, as Baird chronicles, have helped unseat former mall kingpins  —   like Abercrombie & Fitch, because its values no longer aligned with young consumers. The only thing potentially more threatening to a traditional retailer might be the elusive, but famously picky, .’ ”Victoria’s Secret has a stronghold on the. ..”