’’ ”Ted Cruz on Wednesday said that he was not discouraged by his massive loss in Tuesday’s New York primary.” ’The Texas senator said in a press conference that it came as no surprise the Manhattan billionaire won his home state.’ ’”I recognize that last night was a good night for Donald,” Cruz told reporters. ”It also surprised nobody. Donald won his home state. Everyone knew Donald was going to win his home state. ”’ ’”We are on a path to” winning the GOP nomination, Cruz continued, despite his   finish in the Empire State.’ ’”Donald is on a path to losing the nomination. All of his bluster, all of his bravado, is designed to hide that simple fact,” Cruz offered.’ ”He said that his recent string of victories in contests in Utah, Wyoming, and Wisconsin, in addition to his sweeps of delegate slates in Colorado and North Dakota, prove that the slipup in New York isn’t a reflection on the senator’s momentum. He predicted that the GOP race would go to a contested convention in July.” ’”No one is able to reach 1, 237,” he said, referring to the number of delegates a Republican candidate needs to win the nomination. ”I’’m not going to reach 1, 237 and Donald’’s not going to reach 1, 237. ”’ ”Trump highlighted Cruz’s mathematical elimination from the 1, 237 level on Wednesday.” ’’ ’But Cruz suggested that both candidates will be arriving at the Cleveland convention this July with ”a ton of delegates.” And he insisted that he would have a huge advantage in swaying delegates to join his camp on the convention floor.’ ”Cruz also said that he has no plans to drop out of the race, unless he sees no path to victory. He also conceded that Trump will probably win additional states during Tuesday’s Northeastern and   contests. That day features matchups in Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, and Rhode Island  —   .” ’”But then the race goes out back West,” he said. ”That’’s a real problem for Donald. ”’ ’He added that Trump has a ”real problem winning west of the Mississippi River” and that Western state contests create an ”ominous   for the Trump campaign. ”’ ’’ ’Asked about the looming specter of Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who finished second in New York and is likely to finish second in many states that vote next Tuesday, Cruz said that Kasich has ”no path” and might be ”auditioning to be Trump’’s vice president. ”’ ”Kasich’s account tweeted earlier on Wednesday that, with Cruz now also being eliminated mathematically from hitting the 1, 237 number before the July convention, he would make a better nominee than Cruz:” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tNow that Cruz is now mathematically eliminated, the only diff between him and Kasich is Kasich can defeat Clinton. ’ ’Cruz chastised Trump for complaining about the   process, adding that, although more Republicans voted in Wisconsin, the total delegates secured by Cruz were dwarfed by Trump’’s haul in New York. He also added that New York votes ”counted so much more” than Republican votes in another state he won: Texas.’ ’Believing that another debate  —   the first that would be held since    —   would do him justice, Cruz also called out Trump for supposedly refusing to debate.’ ’”Why is it that Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders respect the voters more than Donald Trump?” he said. ”They held a debate. ”’ ’He added: ”She’’s more willing to appear in a debate than Donald Trump. ”’ ’Ted Cruz on Wednesday said that he was not. ..’