’’ ”The fallout from Chipotle’s food crisis is almost over, according to one analyst.” ”JPMorgan analyst John Ivankoe  will turn positive in the fourth quarter of this year, and that the company’s earnings per share in 2017 will be very close to its 2014 profits.” ’”In all, our call is based on Chipotle being a highly meaningful brand, that with time and expense can regain customer trust,” Ivankoe said.’ ’This statement echoes one made back in December by BTIG analyst Peter Saleh, who ” we do not believe there will be any   impact to the brand or its customer appeal and expect Chipotle’’s growth trajectory to remain intact. ”’ ’But it might be too soon to celebrate a Chipotle comeback.’ ”The burrito chain’s sales have plunged following an E. coli scare that affected restaurants in 14 states. The outbreak was declared over in February, but   sales  —   or sales at stores open at least a year  —   continue to fall.” ”  sales dropped 26. 1% in February, following a 36. 4% decline in the prior month. The company’s stock price has lost more than 32% of its value in the last six months.” ’Chipotle is giving away  to lure customers back to its restaurants in the wake of the E. coli outbreaks, and the chain says the offers .’ ’But the strategy is ”nowhere near a holistic solution to Chipotle’s issues,” according to Neil Saunders, CEO of   firm Conlumino. The offers might draw some loyal customers back to the chain but probably won’’t succeed in luring any new customers, he said.’ ”The offers also don’t fix three potentially ongoing problems that have nothing to do with E. coli: menu fatigue, supply chain shortages, and challenges attracting and retaining employees.” ” Customers have been growing tired of Chipotle’s menu, ” ’”We believe [Chipotle’’s] success made them a bit complacent (although not with its desire to expand its store base or improve   operations) as the company’s lack of interest in innovation over the last decade has resulted in what we consider to be menu fatigue,” analysts Karen Short and Brett Levy wrote in a recent note.’ ’’ ’Chipotle has also struggled with supply chain shortages, because of its strict standards for how animals should be raised and fed.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’The company may also face some labor challenges in the months and years ahead, along with the rest of the restaurant industry.’ ’’ ’Chipotle held a  last fall to bring in new workers.’ ’’ ”The fallout from Chipotle’s food crisis is. ..”