”The  team writes about stuff we think you’ll like. Business Insider has affiliate partnerships, so we may get a share of the revenue from your purchase.” ’As part of an ongoing series, each week Insider Picks features a product or store that’s poised for big things. The subject of this week’’s ”We’’re Obsessed” segment is an online mattress company called .’ ’With more and more mattress companies starting up and taking the    approach, the less customers are going to traditional store showrooms to buy their beds. This approach has proved itself a good shift for customers, who were often getting the short end of the stick from commissioned showroom salespeople.’ ’’ ’Rest assured, though, there are some great options to consider. .’ ’’ ’Like its competitors, there’s no awkward showroom scene and you get to try your mattress in your own home for 100 nights risk free. ”The direct to consumer space is totally different [than the traditional retail market],” Diamonstein told Business Insider. ”We’’re able to offer a   selling environment with total transparency. There are no middlemen and no heavy demands placed on us. Each Leesa mattress is ordered by the customer, and then produced and shipped within   days.” ’ ’’ ’Leesa’’s mattress is also genuinely solid. ”Leesa developed a    mattress that was intended to improve on the market leader,” Wolfe told us. ”For all its undoubted benefits in terms of pressure relief, there were three major drawbacks to the market leader. It slept hot (heat) you would sink into it and not be able to move around (bounce) and it was incredibly expensive. ”’ ’ mattress fixes all these problems with a solid base layer of foam and two layers of specialty foam on top of that, which provide the benefits of memory foam in the middle layer and cooling and bounce on the top layer. ”’ ”The company claims its mattress can comfortably accommodate all body shapes and types of sleepers, and that, because of its original design, you don’t have to choose between a firm or a plush mattress.  ” ”The reviews site  has this to say about the differences among sleep styles, if you’re unsure where you fall on the mattress spectrum:” ’’ ’’ ”Leesa’s mattresses are available in the following sizes, and for the following prices: twin ($525) twin XL ($625) full ($790) queen ($890) king ($990) California king ($990). ” ’ ’ ’The Insider Picks team writes about stuff we. ..’