”China’s property market is staging a major turnaround as property prices in   cities have heated up quickly over the past few months.” ’For the first quarter, residential prices in Shenzhen are up nearly 80%    while those in Shanghai were up by roughly 65% according to figures cited by Capital Economics analysts.’ ’And the surge in residential property sales throughout 2016 has been driven by the loosening of some purchase restrictions at local levels and rate cuts, which have reduced mortgage costs by a significant amount.’ ”In the short run, this is good for growth. Already China’s GDP breakdown showed an uptick in    services in the first quarter, as the ” ”But not everyone’s jazzed about what’s going on.” ’”Some are concerned that the rapid   in sales signals a return of speculative behaviour perhaps linked to the inflation of a property bubble,” wrote Capital Economics’’ Mark Williams and Julian   in a recent note to clients.’ ’They continued: ”In particular, there are concerns that these rapid price gains are the result of a relaxation in lending standards that has echoes, some suggest, of the   to the subprime mortgage crisis in the US. ”’ ’Notably, the Capital Economics duo suggests that there is some truth to these worries.’ ’As they explained in their research note (emphasis added):’ ’Moreover, interestingly, a  from early March noted how ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”That being said, this doesn’t mean that China’s on the precipice of total collapse, the Capital Economics team argued.” ”For starters, prices have risen only in China’s   cities  —   and in a couple of   cities  —   not in all of China.” ’Second, although the   requirements have been eased, mortgages are still pretty hard to get, they write.’ ”Also, somewhat interestingly, Williams and   note that even though there are differences in price spikes across the cities, there’s not a whole lot of difference when it comes to demand. As such, they write that the price differences seem to reflect differences in supply.” ’’ ”China’s property market is staging a major. ..”