’’ ’In September 2015, writer and statistician Nate Silver  about the possibility of Donald Trump winning the Republican presidential nomination.’ ’Two months later, he wrote that the media should  and that Trump’’s odds were ”higher than 0 but (considerably) less than 20 percent. ”’ ’Six months after that, after  of the race but before  done so, Silver wrote: ”Donald Trump is going to win the Republican nomination. ”’ ’”Other than being early skeptics of Jeb Bush, we basically got the Republican race wrong,” Silver wrote.’ ’It’’s easy to cringe at how, in August, for instance, Silver outlined the  that he foresaw for Trump in the coming months  —   and how, in December, he updated the post to note that ”the most difficult hurdles between Donald Trump and the Republican presidential nomination are still to come. ”’ ’So how did the site that prides itself on a   approach end up    Trump bear with its tail between its legs? Silver has some ideas.’ ”For one, some of Silver’s  was, by its own admission, in line with the theories of  a theory that posits candidates must be electable and believers in the party’s positions. ” ’So when, on Wednesday, Silver admitted that ”in Trump, the Republican Party may have a candidate who fails on both counts,” he unsurprisingly also argued for the ”failings of the Republican Party as an institution. ”’ ’Silver wrote:’ ”But Republican institutional failure alone is only one of  of Silver’s analysis, which simultaneously addressed Trump’s success and Silver’s (predictive) failure.” ’The other two components are the incredible volume of media coverage of Trump and the tribal nature of Republican primary voters. On the latter, Silver said that Trump’’s appeal to ”cultural grievance” worked.’ ’”It’’s a point in favor of those who see politics as being governed by cultural identity,” he wrote, ”as opposed to carefully calibrating one’’s position on a   spectrum. ”’ ”Statistical analysis is always still analysis and, as such, requires some assumptions. And though he didn’t address it specifically in his post on Wednesday, Silver said  that a statistical approach to   prediction is a hard problem because there’s only so much data.” ’Perhaps Silver’’s most prescient prediction came in November: ”Unprecedented events can occur with some regularity. ”’ ’In September 2015, writer and statistician Nate. ..’