’’ ”Failure is considered a badge of honor in Silicon Valley. If you aren’t failing, you aren’t trying. And if you aren’t failing big time, you aren’t aiming high enough.” ’But even by the standards of Silicon Valley, what Tesla CEO Elon Musk is approaching would be failure on a whole new scale. ’ ’Tesla reported   earnings last week, and while they were better than Wall Street expected, the earthshaking news that emerged was that .’ ”Tesla, which delivered about 50, 000 vehicles last year, is aiming to deliver 500, 000 in 2018. The production target isn’t new, but the timeline is. Tesla had previously said it would build half a million cars a year by 2020. ” ’Prompting this change was the 400, 000   that Tesla has taken for the Model 3   vehicle, set to be priced at $35, 000 and due to arrive in 2017. At $1, 000 a pop, these   represent a nice   loan for Tesla, but also a daunting challenge for a company that barely managed to deliver 50, 000 vehicles in 2015.’ ’No one thinks Tesla can pull this off. It would be the fastest   in production in a century, since Henry Ford used mass production to roll a huge number of Model Ts off his assembly lines.’ ”Bear in mind that going from a 50, 000 production pace to 500, 000 wouldn’t be that difficult for an established automaker  —   a Ford or Toyota or GM or Honda, with numerous factories spread around the globe and decades of manufacturing experience. A traditional player could be hitting Tesla’s marks in six months, if necessary.” ’But for much of its history, Tesla was building one car, the Model S sedan, in one factory located in Northern California. (It now has some additional manufacturing capacity in Europe.) Last year, it graduated to building two cars. And that second car, the Model X SUV, has been beset with   problems and has already endured a voluntary recall.’ ’’ ’Tesla is an impressive company and Musk is a visionary, but the automaker’’s inability to get better at building its cars is alarming. Musk knows this and repeatedly stressed to analysts last week that, as awesome as Tesla is at design and technology, it must become a premier manufacturer of ”large, complex objects. ”’ ’But Musk is also showing a touch of arrogance by continuing to push Tesla toward a vertically integrated production Model, avoiding the ”lean” or ”just in time” processes that the rest of the auto industry adopted in the 1980s and ’’90s  —   and which Tesla’’s factory, formerly a joint venture between Toyota and GM, was created to explore. This gives Tesla more control. But it also exposes the company to the critical issue that continues to bedevil it: complexity.’ ’Musk has also begun to fall into a rather didactic pattern of reminding analysts how difficult it is to put cars together. ’ ’”[T]’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Failure is considered a badge of honor in. ..’