’’ ’Mexico’’s prison system has been called a ”,” and drug lord Joaqun ”El Chapo” Guzmán just got sent to the worst lockup in the country.’ ’Guzmán was  to Cefereso No. 9, just outside Ciudad Juarez, which is across the border from El Paso, Texas.’ ”A 2015 report by Mexico’s National Human Rights Commission found that Cefereso No. 9  the lowest score of the country’s 21 federal prisons and below the 7. 32 score of the   Altiplano prison, where Guzmán was being held before.” ’The prison  —   about  from downtown Ciudad Juarez  —   had a low score for handling prisoners with special requirements.’ ’It also got middling marks for prisoner safety and   and for rehabilitation,  to the Associated Press. Despite those issues and overcrowding, the prison  from 2014.’ ’One area in which the prison performs well is in ”conditions of governability,” which perhaps led to Mexican officials’’  that Cefereso No. 9 would hold the kingpin.’ ’The Mexican government said Guzmán was removed from the   Altiplano prison, from which  in July before being  in January, to do renovations meant to  though it may have been in response to a more immediate risk.’ ’’ ’”Moving him from one prison to another is one way of delaying any potentially successful escape plans, or they might have had some information that an escape plan had been hatched,” Alejandro Hope, the security and justice editor at El Daily Post,  The Guardian.’ ”Hope  that Guzmán’s continued presence at Altiplano makes it more likely the conditions that allowed his escape in the past will return.” ”And Guzmán’s very presence in Chihuahua seems to be a matter of concern.” ’His Sinaloa cartel  a violent struggle over the trafficking corridor running through Ciudad Juarez, and while violence in the city has  it is likely that the cartel still has a significant presence there.’ ’’ ’”It just doesn’’t make any sense,” Mike Vigil, the former chief of international operations for the US Drug Enforcement Administration,  the AP on Sunday. ”He has that part of his empire, he has the infrastructure there and he has people who would assist him in terms of engineering him another escape. ”’ ’Hope echoed that point,  the AP, ”The surrounding environment is risky because ’’El Chapo’’ certainly has a lot of people in Ciudad Juarez, so it seems like a relatively odd choice   …     Probably the other alternatives were not any better, whatever their objective was. ”’ ’There have also been conflicting messages about whether the transfer was a prelude to .’ ’”Due to the proximity (to the US) it makes it easier to extradite him,” a Mexican   official  CNN about the transfer to Ciudad Juarez.’ ’Other authorities  Reuters that the move ”was not a preamble to extradition. ”’ ’Hope  that moving Guzmán to Cefereso No. 9 to ease extradition would be strange, as it would be just as easy to fly him from Mexico City, located about 60 miles east of Altiplano prison, as it would be to fly from Juarez.’ ”No details about an escape attempt have emerged, and the efforts of Guzmán’s legal team (which has called the transfer ) and  suggest that extradition will take more than just a few months.” ’It’’s not yet clear what’’s going on, but with Guzmán  —   nicknamed ”” for his subterranean proclivities  —   it’’s usually more than meets the eye.’ ”Mexico’s prison system has been called a. ..”