’’ ’’ ’The   startup revealed on Tuesday that it will demo its propulsion technology on its first test track in North Las Vegas on Wednesday morning.’ ’The Hyperloop is a futuristic transport system that carries passengers in capsules at speeds reaching more than 500 mph. Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk first proposed the idea in 2013 and made his research public so others could pursue developing the concept. Hyperloop Technologies is one of the startups doing just that.’ ”While the company will not be showing off a   system with shooting passenger pods, it will be demoing the underlying technology of its system. The company’s current track is used for conducting propulsion   tests, which basically consist of sending its linear motors down a   track at speeds of 330 mph.” ’’ ’The company is also changing its name to ”Hyperloop One” and said in a press statement that the new name better represents its ”singular leadership and incredible progress” in developing the world’’s first   Hyperloop system.’ ”But it’s worth noting that the name change will also help diffuse any confusion between it and Hyperloop Transportation Technologies, which is another   startup developing Hyperloop technology.” ’’ ’The company also announced that it closed an $80 million Series B financing round with old and new investors participating. Some of its notable new investors include Khosla Ventures, the French National Rail Co. and GE Ventures.’ ”Hyperloop One isn’t just securing more funding to help it grow, though. It’s also securing key partnerships with leading infrastructure companies.” ”One of the startup’s most notable new partnerships includes the global design and construction firm AECOM.  to build a   Hyperloop test track that will be used for Elon Musk’s Hyperloop pod competition, which will take place later this year.” ’Other companies Hyperloop One is partnering with include the design and engineering firm Arup and the engineering and consulting firm Systra.’ ’Rob Lloyd, CEO of Hyperloop One, said in the press statement:’ ’Hyperloop Technologies is about to take. ..’