’LONDON  —   Donald Trump has said he is unlikely to have a good relationship with David Cameron because the British prime minister cast the US presidential candidate as ”divisive, stupid, and wrong” for proposing a temporary ban on Muslims entering the US.’ ”After Trump’s call for an entry ban on Muslims, Cameron criticized Trump in the British Parliament and suggested that Trump, who is now the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, would unite Britain against him if he visited.” ’”It looks like we’’re not going to have a very good relationship, who knows,” Trump told Britain’’s ITV television station in an interview that aired Monday when asked how ties would be if he won power in the November 8 presidential election.’ ’”I hope to have a good relationship with him, but it sounds like he’’s not willing to address the problem either,” Trump said, though earlier in the interview he said he didn’’t care about the Cameron comments.’ ’The US is Britain’’s closest ally, and political leaders from both nations often speak of how the countries’’ enjoy a special relationship. Cameron earlier this month refused to retract his ”divisive, stupid, and wrong” comment but said Trump deserved respect for making it through the grueling Republican primary process.’ ’”We have a tremendous problem with radical Islamic terror,” Trump told ITV when asked about the proposed ban on Muslims. ”The world is blowing up, and it’’s not people from Sweden that’’s doing the damage, OK. So we have a real problem. ”’ ”Trump, who had initially wished newly elected Mayor Sadiq Khan of London well, said he was offended by Khan’s criticism that he was ignorant about Islam.” ’”He doesn’’t know me, never met me, doesn’’t know what I am all about,” Trump said. ”I think they are very rude statements. Frankly, tell him I will remember those statements. They are very nasty statements. It is ignorant for him to say that. ”’ ”After Khan’s election, Trump had told The New York Times that he could make an exception for Khan, who is a Muslim, to visit the US.” ’When asked about Britain’’s membership of the European Union, Trump said: ”I’’ve dealt with the European Union, it’’s very, very bureaucratic, it’’s very, very difficult. In terms of Britain I would say, ’’What do you need it for? ’’ But again, let people make up their own mind. ”’ ’LONDON  —   Donald Trump has said he is. ..’