’’ ’Signs point to the beginning of a rout in emerging markets that could threaten the stability that the global economy has been enjoying since March.’ ’’ ’Now, remember February?’ ’That was when markets went nuts and analysts were calling for the end of days. New York City woke up each morning to bad news about the Chinese yuan sliding, sending markets in Shanghai and Hong Kong into a tailspin. The turmoil would spread across Asia, then to Europe  —   London and Frankfurt, Germany  —   and then finally to tired traders on Wall Street, surprised to live in a world in which the Chinese currency mattered so much.’ ’Thanks in part to   commodity prices and a strong dollar, no economies were hit harder during this period than emerging markets, which saw punishing outflows.’ ’Slowly, though, money started crawling back in as the dollar weakened. Also, the yuan and commodities prices stabilized, and the Chinese government engaged in stimulus at the end of the month.’ ’The problem now is that most of those trends are reversing.’ ”Here’s Morgan Stanley again:” ’’ ’’ ”After engaging in stimulus to stave off the worst, the Chinese government has started to back off. Another group of analysts over at Morgan Stanley is looking at the country’s property market, which saw a  thanks to government stimulus.” ’’ ”But then industrial output and lending slowed in April. The county’s purchasing managers index also gave us a clue that this rally was not going to last.” ’”’ ’’ ’Meanwhile, the  on fears that the US Federal Reserve will hike interest rates on June 15.’ ”We’re not saying things will get that bad, but we are saying things are about to get a little crazy in emerging markets, and now we know that could have reverberations all over the world.” ’’ ”We do have two factors keeping markets stable for now, though. For one, the  to be holding steady at a price that is painful for producers  —     —   but at least isn’t making the market puke.” ’The other thing the world has going for it is the stability of the Chinese yuan, which we now have reason to believe will be backstopped by the government.’ ”Here’s how we know: Back in November, China was admitted into a special club of global reserve currencies, the Special Drawing Rights basket. To get into the club, China had to allow its currency to move with market forces.” ”But according to  that hasn’t been the case. Leaked minutes from meetings with Chinese economic authorities show that President Xi Jinping is more interested in keeping the economy stable than in modernizing and reforming it so that it is moved by global markets and not the Chinese state.” ’So perhaps the government will see fit to continue to fix the yuan. But then maybe not.’ ”We should also note that one more danger has entered this fray: Brazil, the world’s   economy. Until now stocks have been stable, . Markets liked the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff, and ” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Signs point to the beginning of a rout in. ..’