’Here is what you need to know.’ ”. West Texas Intermediate crude oil touched a high of $49. 45 a barrel in early action. Wednesday’s print is the highest since the middle of October, and it comes after the   release of American Petroleum Institute data that showed a drawdown of supply by 5 million barrels, double market expectations. WTI crude oil is now up 1. 1% at $49. 16 a barrel.” ”. The People’s Bank of China set the midpoint of its yuan fix at 6. 5468 per dollar, down 0. 34% from Tuesday. The weakening of the yuan comes as the PBOC looks to soften the blow of a potential Fed   hike, which could come as early as the June 15 meeting. According to the Financial Times, the fix was the lowest by the PBOC in five years.” ”. The deal paves the way for Greece to receive While it’s unclear how exactly a deal will look, it could reduce the International Monetary Fund’s exposure to the country by buying back up to ” ”. Germany’s Ifo Business Climate rose to 107. 7 in May, up from 106. 7 in April. The reading was the highest since December and ahead of the slight uptick that economists were anticipating. According to ” ’. The company earned $0. 18 a share on revenue of $12. 7 billion. HP Enterprises plans to’ ”. The world’s largest brewer is being investigated on suspicion of providing incentives encouraging distributors to sell more of its beer than competing craft beers, Reuters’ Diane Bartz reports. According to the report, authorities are looking into a new incentives program that was announced at the end of 2015 that refunded 75% of the money a distributor spent on AB InBev advertising if 98% of a distributors’ sales were AB InBev products. US authorities continue to review the announced merger between AB InBev and SAB Miller.” ’. The company says it would eliminate nearly 2, 000 jobs as it looks to streamline its smartphone hardware business. About 1, 350 of the job cuts will occur in Finland as Microsoft shutters its’ ”Stock markets around the globe are bid. Spain’s IBEX (+1. 9%) leads in Europe after Hong Kong’s Hang Seng (+2. 7%) paced the advance in Asia. S&P 500 futures are up 7. 25 points at 2, 082. 25.” ’Earnings reports trickle out. Bank of Montreal and Tiffany & Co. highlight the names releasing their quarterly results ahead of the opening bell. Costco and   are among the companies reporting after markets close.’ ’US economic data is light. The FHFA Housing Price Index will be released at 9 a. m. ET before Markit Services PMI crosses the wires at 9:45 a. m. ET. The US   yield is unchanged near 1. 87%.’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to 10 Things Before the Opening Bell and never miss an update!’ ’Here is what you need to know. Oil is at a. ..’