”  Pakistan  —   The Afghan Taliban named one of leader Mullah Akhtar Mansour’s deputies to succeed him on Wednesday after confirming that Mansour died in a US drone strike over the weekend.” ”Mansour will be replaced by Haibatullah Akhunzada, who was named in a United Nations report last year as the Taliban’s former chief justice, said Zabihullah Mujahid, the Taliban’s main spokesman, in the statement.” ’Sirajuddin Haqqani, the head of a feared network blamed for many   bombs attacks in Kabul, Afghanistan, in recent years, and Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, son of Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar, will serve as deputies.’ ”The announcement, following a meeting of the Taliban’s main shura, or leadership council, ended days of confusion during which the Taliban declined to confirm that Mansour died in a drone strike in Pakistan on Saturday.” ’”All the shura members have pledged allegiance to Sheikh Haibatullah in a safe place in Afghanistan,” the statement said. ”All people are required to obey the new  ” or commander of the faithful.’ ’Akhunzada, believed to be about 60 years old and a member of the powerful Noorzai tribe, is from Kandahar, in the south of Afghanistan and the heartland of the Taliban.’ ”He was a close aide to Omar, Taliban sources said, and is understood to share Omar’s aversion for publicity, including the leaking of any photographs of him.” ’Some members of the Taliban believe that Mansour may have been traced and later killed because a photograph of him was shared after his appointment as leader in 2015.’ ’’ ’Senior members of the insurgent group had been keenly aware of the need to appoint a candidate who could bring disparate factions together and repair the splits that emerged last year when Mansour was appointed.’ ’But there was no immediate indication of whether the appointment would lead to a shift in the stance of the Taliban, which under Mansour ruled out participating in peace talks with the government in Kabul.’ ’The US, Pakistan, and China have also been trying to get the militants to the negotiating table to end a conflict that has killed thousands of civilians and security personnel and left Afghanistan seriously unstable.’ ’News of the appointment came as a suicide attack on a bus carrying workers from an appeals court killed 10 people and wounded four west of Kabul, the Afghan capital. There was no immediate claim of responsibility.’ ’The Taliban have made big gains since NATO forces ended their main combat operations in Afghanistan in 2014, and they now control more of the country than at any time since they were ousted by   forces in 2001.’ ”Mansour, a former deputy to Omar who was named as leader after the Taliban announced that Omar had died more than two years earlier, faced widespread suspicions that he had deceived the movement by covering up his predecessor’s death.” ’(Additional reporting by Sayed Hassib; writing by James Mackenzie; Editing by Mike   and Clarence Fernandez)’ ’  Pakistan  —   The Afghan. ..’