’’ ”Marco Rubio’s Twitter account is trending up.” ’In the wake of his futile effort in the Republican presidential primary, the Florida senator has in recent weeks taken to the   outlet with new vigor.’ ’It started May 16, when Rubio sent out a somewhat   post  —   when you consider his use of the medium during the campaign.’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tAnother genius line claims that Im ”a bit at sea in terms of his next step politically”. Ummmm Not really.  ’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tI have only said like 10000 times I will be a private citizen in January. ’t’t’ ’’ ” ’t’t’tAs for future in politics, well it’s nearly impossible for someone not in office to ever become a successful candidate for President. Right? ’t’t” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tA source ”close to Rubio” says he was tired after long day & has decided to sleep for a few hours before tomorrow’’s ZIKA debate in Senate. ’t’t’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tA ”longtime friend” says Rubio is ”betwixt and between when it comes to whether to chest or legs tomorrow at gym. ”’t’t’ ’’ ” ’t’t’tAccording to source who knows his cousins, wife’s dentist, Rubio could do cardio instead. ’t’t” ’’ ” ’t’t’tOk that’s enough for one night. Twitter isn’t something you should just rush back into. You have to slowly increase the dosage. .... ..’t’t” ’As Rubio ”slowly” increased ”the dosage,” his sense of humor has become more prevalent.’ ’A longtime   reporter, Politico’’s Marc Caputo, said he ”’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’”#GOP mulling overhaul of primaries?”  in one tweet, referring to a New York Times story that detailed how Republican leaders were looking at altering the nominating process. ”How about making Minnesota, Puerto Rico, and D. C. the first three primaries? ”’ ’Naturally, those were  he won in his 2016 bid: the Minnesota caucuses, the Puerto Rico primary, and the Washington, DC, convention.’ ’Soon after, Rubio tweeted a  with the headline ”Rubio   himself on robotic moment.” The story centered on his infamous moment  during which he repeated the same line a number of times during a    with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie.’ ’”Rubio 2ndguesses on robotic moment. Rubio 2nd guesses on robotic 2ndguesses on robotic moment,” .’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tIf you can live with a Clinton presidency for 4 years thats your right. I cant and will do what I can to prevent it. ’t’t’ ”Marco Rubio’s Twitter account is trending up. ..”