’Libya has been the big supply ”” this year.’ ’Over a million barrels a day have been shut in amid political and security challenges over the past 12 months, keeping production stagnated at about 400, 000 barrels a day.’ ’But after the establishment of the   unity government in late December, some investors started gearing up for the return of a substantial number of Libyan barrels to the market.’ ”Analysts and geopolitical watchers believe it’s highly unlikely that Libya will see a serious spike in production, however, given that the country’s thorny security situation has been further complicated by a lack of a strong government” ’”Libya’’s political, security and financial challenges continue to worsen, with no clear path to recovery,’ ’”Even with the recent positive meeting between the two rival [ in Vienna earlier this month, and the international community’’s efforts to help establish the new Government of National Accord, we see a number of risks that would likely prevent or derail any significant production recovery,” the team argued.’ ’’ ’’ ’Things have been chaotic in Libya since Muammar Gaddafi was overthrown in 2011, as two rival governments and numerous armed groups have been competing for power.’ ’Delegates from the various Libyan factions  this past December to form a national unity government headed by Prime Minister Fayez Sarraj  —   but the other two administrations in the country were ”. ”’ ’Sarraj and some of his deputies  in Tripoli, Libya, in March. But, eastern militia leaders are still  on supporting the government.’ ’’ ’”The group’’s operational base is in Sirte,” the RBC team continued, ”which is in the immediate vicinity of the most critical eastern oil facilities, and it has already  the energy infrastructure and killed oil workers. ”’ ’’ ”Croft argued in particular that there’s a key difference between ISIS’ strategy in Libya .” ’As she told Business Insider in an interview last Tuesday:’ ”In short, don’t count on Libya’s oil coming back on the market anytime soon.” ’Libya has been the big supply ”wild card” this. ..’