”Photos appearing to show the leader of Iran’s powerful Quds Force, Qasem Soleimani, liaising with Iraqi authorities near Baghdad have prompted speculation  —   and concern  —   over the role Iran and its proxies intend to play in driving ISIS out of Mosul and Fallujah.” ’’ ’ ’t’t’tصور حديثة للجنرال  برفقة  مع عناصر  وضباط الشرطة الاتحادية على مشارف   ’ ”Soleimani’s presence in Iraq amid two major   offensives  —   in Fallujah, 30 miles west of Baghdad, and in Mosul, further north  —   has unnerved those familiar with Iran’s campaign to cultivate influence in the region through Shiite proxy militias, whose presence in   areas could provoke sectarian violence.” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’”What worries me most is the fact that Washington hasn’’t learned the lessons of the   era in Iraq,” ’ ’The surge coincided with a new counterinsurgency strategy implemented by Gen.’ ’’ ’”You cannot defeat a radical Sunni extremist group like ISIS with radical Shiite extremists,” said Khedery, . ”It will only push more Sunnis into ISIS’’s hands. Y’ ’US officials seem to be aware of the problem  —   one official told ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’hat bothers me enormously is how shortsighted US policy continues to be with regard to Iraq,” Khedery said. ”The Obama administration is willing to provide Soleimani [and his proxies] with virtually unending support for the sake of the   campaign. ”’ ’”We will thus win the battle, but we will certainly lose the war,” Khedery added. ”The US is unwittingly priming the Middle East for endless sectarian war, and that will certainly haunt the world for decades to come. ”’ ”Still, many experts agree that, currently, the main forces attacking ISIS in Fallujah are not the PMUs but Iraq’s multiethnic counterterrorism units, which are being assisted by local tribal communities.” ’The offensive is a ”prototype” for the kind of cooperation between local and government forces against ISIS that helped drive ISIS out of Ramadi last year, according to ’ ’”What is happening now in Falluja is paving the way for what will happen in Mosul on a much larger scale,” Rushdi ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”ew believe that that will be enough to halt ISIS’s momentum in the country, which continues to be driven in large part by Baghdad’s political instability, financial struggles, and the perception that Abadi  —   is beholden to Iran.” ’’ ’’ ”Photos appearing to show the leader of Iran’s. ..”