’’ ’Salesforce just announced a $2. 8 billion deal to buy Demandware, an   software maker.’ ”The purchase is a big deal for Salesforce: It’s the biggest acquisition the company has ever done in its   history. It also opens up Salesforce to the massive   market, the one missing piece in its suite of cloud service that ranges from sales and marketing to   software.” ’But the acquisition also highlights a bigger trend that could shake up the software industry: increased   that could spark an M&A frenzy among big players like Microsoft and Oracle.’ ’”The acquisition speaks more to the fact that the M&A environment is as robust in software as we’’ve seen at any point in the past three to four years,” Stifel’’s research analyst, Tom Roderick, told Business Insider. ”I think the derivative impact of this acquisition will be a very interesting question: Who does Oracle buy next? What about Microsoft? ”’ ’The buying activity for software companies has certainly picked up this year after seeing a relative slowdown over the past few years. In April, Oracle scooped up two   makers, Textura and Opower, for $663 million and $532 million, respectively, while   firms bought smaller players, like Marketo and SciQuest, this month.’ ”In fact, Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff said that this year has been  he’s ever seen in an interview with CNBC’s Jim Cramer on Wednesday.” ”All in all, there’s been 22 software acquisitions in the first five months of this year, outpacing the total number of software deals in each of the past four years, according to UBS.” ’’ ”UBS’s research analyst, Brent Thill, tells us that the   activity will only increase, especially in the   space, as more big companies find their growth potential attractive. On top of that, a lot of the   makers, broadly known as the     (SaaS) market, saw  over the past six months, despite showing robust   growth.” ’Thill wrote in a note on Wednesday:’ ”And don’t expect the consolidation to happen only among public companies. As Jason Green of Emergence Capital told us previously, even   startups could find themselves in such a situation as the   market slows down.” ’’ ’Salesforce just announced a $2. 8...’