’The retail industry is struggling.’ ’Last month, many companies, from  to  to  reported dismal earnings.’ ”One reason is that they’ve trained consumers to shop on sale.” ”Macy’s has blamed many reasons for its nosediving sales, from . Both may be true, but a walk around the store’s flagship in Herald Square in New York City proved that the company may be trapped in a vicious cycle.” ”The store was a mess, which detracts from any level of luxury the company may have had. It’s difficult for consumers to want to throw down lots of cash for a Gucci bag when the experience unsettling.” ’’ ’’ ’Perhaps most notable is its huge ”Last Act” clearance section, which renders the store an   bargain bin.’ ’J. Crew is yet another store fighting to retain its prestige amongst consumers. It has also been struggling to figure out how to get consumers to pay a premium.’ ” and have hurt J. Crew more than anything, though it has been working on both. Fortunately, the excess inventory that it’s trying to clear is making room for something promising: the forthcoming line from former Madewell designer Somsack Sikhounmuong which will launch this fall. It was  at New York Fashion Week in February.” ”But will shoppers pay full price since they’ve come to knowr?” ’Banana Republic knows this all too well.’ ’Gap Inc. CEO Art Peck has explained just how hard it is to wean people off of promotions.’ ’”Same is really true on Banana, where we have backed off” on promotions, Peck said, adding: ”And I will be the first to say that when you start tightening up in promotion, you are playing a game of chicken with your customers . .. And so we’’ve been playing that now for really the last quarter. And we’’ve seen more effects on this quite honestly. ”’ ”In other words: it’s hard to get them to do something other than shop on sale.” ’ ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’There was arguably a time when there was a reason to shop at a premiere, traditional retailer versus a fast fashion store. It may have cost more, but the experience and quality gave people a reason to shop there. With companies competing to bottom out the next with sales  —   and clearance prices rivaling those of dirt cheap fast fashion retailers, which can much more quickly than traditional retailers can  —   consumers need more reasons than ever to purchase clothes at a premium price.’ ’The retail industry is struggling. Last month. ..’