’  ’ ’   ( )   Ousted Lending Club CEO and cofounder Renaud   Laplanche has been speaking to private equity firms and banks   about financing a potential buyout of the online lender,   according to people familiar with the matter. ’ ’   The French entrepreneur, one of the   names in the   fledgling industry,  ’ ”   The scandal sent shock waves through a sector already dealing   with investor nervousness about rising loan losses and cratered   Lending Club’s stock, which has lost nearly 40% of its value in   under a month. ” ’   In the weeks following his May 9 departure, Laplanche approached   firms about financing a bid to take the company private, the   people said. ’ ’   The talks were preliminary and may not lead to a deal, said the   sources, who asked not to be named because the matter is private. ’ ’’ ’   Laplanche declined to comment on his future plans. A   representative for Lending Club declined to comment. ’ ”   Once the industry’s biggest champion, Laplanche has put the   sector firmly in the regulatory spotlight. The Department of   Justice is probing the circumstances leading up to his departure   and the New York Department of Financial Services is separately   investigating the company’s business practices. ” ’   Such regulatory heat could make it difficult for Laplanche to   secure funding, one of the sources said. ’ ”   It is already creating worries for buyers of the company’s loans,   some of whom have already paused their purchases   a key source   of funding for the company   because of concerns about the risks   associated with them. ” ’   Lending Club said in a filing last month that  ’ ’   On Tuesday, the company abruptly canceled its annual meeting and   rescheduled it for June 28, saying it was not yet ready to   provide stockholders with a complete report on the state of the   company. Lending Club also said it was cutting back its loans to   riskier borrowers and raising interest rates to boost the   attractiveness of its loans to investors. The company, which went   public in late 2014 with a market value of $9 billion, is now   worth $1. 68 billion. ’ ’   The company is working with investment bank Jefferies LLC to help   find investors for loan funding, as it seeks to replenish   investments, Reuters reported in May. ’ ”   Aside from the irregularities around the loans, Lending Club said   that Laplanche had not disclosed his stake in a fund in which the   company later made its own investment. He had also taken an   emergency loan from one of the company’s directors to help avoid   a margin call that would have forced him to sell part of his   stake in the company. ” ’   (Additional reporting by Mike Erman and Greg Roumeliotis in New   York; Editing by Carmel Crimmins and Matthew Lewis) ’ ’  ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Fintech Briefing and never miss an update!’ ’( )   Ousted Lending Club CEO and. ..’