”You’ve probably wondered how   often you need to wash your hair. ” ’   The question is a vexing one. And there are lots of different   answers people swear by. ’ ’   For example, Kim Kardashian says she  ’ ’   Outside the shower, our scalps gradually get shinier, darker, and   more oily. ’ ’   So why does it happen, and how often should you wash to keep the   grease at bay and your hair as healthy as possible? ’ ’   Your hair gets greasy for the same reason your face gets oily:   glands in the skin produce an oily substance called sebum. Sebum   is what moistens hair and keeps it from drying out. ’ ”   The glands that produce sebum (called sebaceous glands) are   located next to hair roots in the layer of skin called the   dermis. Channels from the sebaceous glands lead to the hair   follicle   that’s how sebum gets out of the skin and onto your   scalp. Take a look: ” ’  ’ ’   The key thing about sebum is this: Each of us produces a   different amount. ’ ’   Everything from genetics and hormones affects how much sebum we   produce at a given time, Kaiser Permanente dermatologist Paradi   Mirmirani told us in an email. The hormones responsible for extra   sebum production spike during puberty, which is what causes so   many of us to have extra greasy hair and acne during those lovely   years. ’ ’   While the answer is different for everyone, there is one truth   Mirmani says you can abide by: ’ ’ No one should need to wash his or her hair every   day. ’ ”   Washing too often, in fact, can do more harm than good,   dermatologist and director of Boston Medical Center’s hair clinic    told us. ” ’   ”It’’s paradoxical, but people who wash their hair a lot to get   rid of oil are drying out their scalp and producing more oil,”   Goldberg said. ’ ’   Here are the things to keep in mind when trying to determine the   right amount of washing for you. Here are the three main   important factors: ’ ’ 1. Skin type ’ ’   If your skin and hair are anywhere from normal (not super oily   and not super dry) to dry, you probably only need to wash it once   or twice a week, . If you have a greasy   scalp, you probably need to wash your hair more often. ’ ’ 2. Hair texture ’ ”   Texture matters because it affects how quickly sebum works its   way from your roots through the length of your hair. Coarse or   curly hair slows down sebum’s spread, so if you have hair like   this you may only need to shampoo once a week,  On the other hand, people with fine,   straight hair will likely need to shampoo twice a week or more. ” ’   Personally, I go about two days without washing my curly hair. In   between shampoos, I rinse my hair, massage my scalp, and apply   conditioner to the ends of my hair. ’ ’ 3. Styling ’ ’   Another thing to consider is the paces you put your hair through   styling and treating it. If your hair is processed or damaged by   styling, you should wash it less frequently, says Mirmirani. ’ ”   This may seem tough to do at first if you’re used to an everyday   scrub, but after about two weeks on the new schedule, you’ll find   yourself with hair that looks healthy and isn’t too greasy, and   subsequently with a lot more free time. ” ’   For women, showering and styling your hair can take about an   hour. ’ ”So you’re looking at  (seven   hair washes and styles per week down to three). ” ”You’ve probably wondered how often you need to. ..”