’  ’ ”   We’ve all done it. ” ”   We’ve taken a quick selfie and posted it on Facebook or   Instagram. We’ve checked in online to a retail store, maybe to   access some sort of discount. We’ve tweeted about our experience   at an amusement park, a restaurant, or a movie theater. ” ’   Well, it turns out that that all adds up to more than just   millennial chatter. ’ ’   Foursquare, the   app that has its users ”check in” to   tell their friends what they are up to, has accurately predicted   footfall, and therefore sales, at  and . ’ ’  ’ ’   The service offered by Foursquare and Twitter is evidence of the   growing use of ”alternative data” on Wall Street. ’ ’. The data sets   range from weather reports to web traffic to satellite imagery. ’ ’   And this data is beginning to change the face of investing. ’ ”   Alternative data is increasingly being used by traditional     quantitative hedge, pension, and mutual funds to   track industries ranging from construction and retail to tech and   real estate, according to a panel on CB Insight’s Future of   Fintech conference, which took place on Wednesday at the   Metropolitan Pavilion. ” ’   These alternative data sets are also    where economic data has known to be inflated. ’ ’  ’ ”   Twelve million people have opted in to share geolocation data and   show every stop they make on Foursquare, the company’s CEO, Jeff   Glueck, said on CB Insight’s panel. This information reveals   consumer spending habits in real time. ” ’   Glueck believes that top hedge funds will be paying a premium for   unique   capabilities. ’ ’   ”We want to be the Nielsen of the real world,” he said. ’ ’   But there are challenges, of course. ’ ’   Learning where the data is predictive is still a work a progress,   for example. ’ ’   ”We are still learning what the predictive power of alternative   data is,” said  ’ ’   ”It’’s a first mover advantage in this industry,” she said. ’ ’   And then there is the significant issue of privacy. The room was   buzzing with the potential until moderator Robin Wigglesworth of   the Financial Times brought up this issue at the CB Insights   event. ’ ”   In the era of big data, where individuals’ every move can be   tracked, how can we ensure that that privacy is protected? ” ’   Matthew Granade, chief market intelligence officer of Point72   Asset Management, said that funds were interested only in large   data sets. ’ ’   Glueck chimed in, saying: ”We’’re interested in understanding   broad aggregate demographics that reveal trends.” ’ ’  ’ ”   For example,   analysis shows that more millennial   women are shopping for shoes at DSW instead of Macy’s. That’s   interesting, but where Matt went for coffee one day isn’t. ” ’   In other words, the value is in the aggregate data rather than   the individual data. ’ ’   When asked by the audience what alternative data sets they   predict for the future,  said that she would   like to see data that is able to extract sentiment and the tone   of consumers. ’ ’   Granade said that he is interested in seeing data sets that are   more applicable to a B2B world rather than just consumers. He   would like to see data with industrial implications, for example,   that predict how trucks move across the country. ’ ”   What’s clear is that in a  the demand for alternative   data is going to only go up. ” ’  ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Fintech Briefing and never miss an update!’ ”We’ve all done it. We’ve taken a quick selfie. ..”