’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton leads Donald Trump by 11 points in the U. S.   presidential race, showing little change after she became the   presumptive Democratic presidential nominee this week, according   to a   poll released on Friday. ’ ’   The online poll, conducted from Monday to Friday, shows 46   percent of likely voters support Clinton while 34. 8 percent back   Trump. Another 19. 2 percent support neither candidate. Their   parties hold conventions in July ahead of a Nov. 8 election. ’ ”   Clinton’s lead was nearly the same a week ago, before she had   amassed enough convention delegates to win the nomination and   before Trump drew criticism from leaders of both parties for   questioning the impartiality of a   judge. ” ’   Trump, 69, enjoyed a bigger boost after becoming the presumptive   Republican nominee in May. Having trailed Clinton, 68, for most   of the year, Trump briefly erased a   gap and pulled   about even with the former secretary of state. ’ ’   Clinton this week defeated party rival Bernie Sanders, 74, in   four of six nominating contests, most notably California and New   Jersey, and won the endorsements of President Barack Obama, Vice   President Joe Biden, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts   and other party leaders. ’ ’’ ”   Trump this week sparred with party leaders and struggled with   questions about his   Trump University. A lawsuit   accuses Trump and the   school of defrauding thousands   of people, including many who paid as much as $35, 000 to learn   Trump’s real estate strategies. ” ”   A wealthy businessman who asserts the lawsuit is politically   motivated, Trump said presiding U. S. District Judge Gonzalo   Curiel was biased against him because of Trump’s plans to build a   wall on the border with Mexico. Trump later added that Muslim   judges could be biased against him also because of his pledge to   temporarily ban Muslims from entering the country. ” ”   Trump’s comments drew sharp criticism from Republican leaders,   including House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader   Mitch McConnell. Trump later said he would no longer talk about   the judge. ” ”   Friday’s results had 1, 276 respondents and a credibility   interval, a measure of accuracy, of 3. 2 percentage points. ” ’   See the whole   poll . ’ ’ Reporting by Chris Kahn. Editing by Howard Goller. ’ ’Hillary Clinton leads Donald Trump by 11 points. ..’