’  ’ ’   It was a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad week for Donald   Trump   one that allowed the ”Never Trump” movement to emerge   from the ashes with some   newfound energy. ’ ”   The presumptive Republican nominee prompted  when he publicly argued that a US federal judge’s   Mexican heritage made him unfit to oversee fraud cases involving   Trump University. ” ’   The comments were  by House Speaker Paul Ryan and condemned   from all sides of the party. Senate Majority Leader Mitch   McConnell  the New York businessman ”use a   script more often” and pleaded with him to ”change direction.” ’ ’   And as the week went on, the Never Trump movement   the segment   within the party that coalesced midway through the primary to   prevent his nomination, but to no avail   grew louder and louder. ’ ”   On Tuesday, Steve Lonegan, former New Jersey chairman for Ted   Cruz’s 2016 White House bid, said delegates attending the   Republican National Convention in Cleveland  and stop   Donald Trump from securing the nomination. ” ’   One day later, conservative   host Hugh Hewitt echoed   Lonegan,  to examine what it would take to change the   rules so that it could dump Trump at the convention. He likened   the billionaire to ”  cancer” destroying the health of   the Republican Party. ’ ’   Tim Miller, the communications director of an   PAC and   former adviser to Jeb Bush’’s presidential campaign,  that the GOP should ”amend the   rules to allow each delegate to make an objection of conscience   to Trump on the 1st ballot.” ’ ’   And in Politico’’s Playbook newsletter, Mike Allen said the   scenario was ”highly unlikely to happen,” but said it was ”no   longer unthinkable that establishment Republicans” may ”seriously   ponder a movement to deny him the nomination.” ’ ’  ’ ”   In conversations with Business Insider, some of the movement’s   top leaders said Trump’s comments had ignited new      efforts to stop the   mogul from   becoming the party’s  . ” ’   ”I have had a number of donors and elected officials call me in   the past 48 hours who were very adamant just two weeks ago that I   should get on board with Trump. Now they are all looking for   options realizing they really can’’t control Trump,” said Erick   Erickson, the former    of RedState and founder of   the conservative website The Resurgent. ’ ’   ”There are three different groups all exploring options on   delegates,” he added. ”They are in separate orbits and have not   combined, but are now starting to talk to each other and make   connections. One of those groups consists of Rules Committee   members.” ’ ’   Republican strategist Rick Wilson, another ”Never Trumper,” told   Business Insider it was hard for him to imagine a scenario in   which the billionaire isn’’t challenged. ’ ’   ”Barring some miraculous change in Trump’’s character and   discipline, it’’s practically inevitable,” he said. ”The party is   terrified, from dogcatchers to US senators, and the sense it   needs to happen grows by the day.” ’ ’   ”I know a few folks who were trying to set up the floor fight   before he got to 1, 237, and they’’ve gotten very active again,”   Wilson added, referring to the number of delegates needed to   clinch the nomination on the first ballot. ’ ’   Wilson noted that 2012 nominee Mitt Romney, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz,   and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker had all been floated as possible   candidates the party could nominate. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s supporters, however, laughed off the talk. ” ’   Asked for comment on the movement’’s latest efforts, conservative   provocateur Ann Coulter joked that the Never Trump crowd ”will   figure out what’’s happening about 10 minutes into President   Trump’’s inaugural address.” ’ ’   ”That would be hilarious!” she wrote in a   email when   asked if she thought GOP insiders might actually try to strip the   nomination from Trump. ’ ”   Even some prominent conservative figures averse to Trump’s   nomination cast doubt on the new plans. ” ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   Virginia Republican National Committeeman Morton Blackwell, a   former Cruz supporter who sits on the RNC Standing Committee on   Rules and now supports the presumptive nominee, also dismissed   the idea of stopping Trump through a rules switch as a   ”nonstarter” proposition. ’ ’   ”This stuff, obviously is titillating   …     but it’’s not a serious   thing,” he told Business Insider in a phone interview. ”If the   rules were changed in order to facilitate the nomination of   somebody other than Trump, it would be only after a ferocious   battle at the Rules Committee in Cleveland, followed by a   ferocious battle on the floor of the convention.” ’ ’   He continued, explaining: ’ ’   Blackwell said that he had faith ”there are enough people of good   sense within the Republican apparatus” to ensure ”it will not   happen.” ’ ’   ”It’’s a fantasy,” he insisted. The veteran RNC committeeman,   however, left the tiniest sliver of possibility open that the   unexpected could happen. ’ ’   ”Well, it’’s hard to say never,” he said. ’ ’   ”I’’ll put it this way,” he added. ”Rounded off to the nearest   whole digit, it’’s a zero chance. Maybe 0. 00001%. It’’s not going   to happen.” ’ ’It was a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad. ..’