’  ’ ’   America’’s fascination with O. J. Simpson came long before the   Bronco chase, and that’’s one of the the major things director   Ezra Edelman wants you to take from part one of his ESPN ”30 for   30” documentary, ”O. J.: Made in America,” which aired on ABC   Saturday night. ’ ’   The documentary begins by showing Simpson at the cusp of stardom,   coming to USC in 1967 from the   housing of the   Potrero Hill neighborhood in San Francisco. ’ ”   Edelman shows a shy Simpson dealing with his newfound attention   at the plush campus of USC with his wife Marguerite by his side.   But when he gets on the field we see a different side of Simpson:   a powerful and determined running back who is also agile enough   to turn the secondary’s legs into spaghetti when he gets into the   open field. ” ’   Simpson’’s first taste of legendary status was his dramatic run   against city rival UCLA in ’’67. His   run in the fourth   quarter to give USC the win became known as ”The Run.” ’ ’  ’ ’   He was untouchable and that reputation only grew when he won the   Heisman Trophy the next year and went to play for the Buffalo   Bills in the NFL, where his rushing for a record 2, 000 yards in   the 1973 season cemented his Hall of Fame career. ’ ’   The success on the field moved to    endorsements,   something that a black athlete never got from white Madison   Avenue before. ’ ’   That’’s where Edelman perfectly places the other big takeaway from   part one of ”Made in America.” Something that would always be a   haze surrounding Simpson: race. ’ ’   Black leaders approached Simpson in the late 1960s to be a figure   for the civil rights cause   much like Muhammad Ali refusing to   fight in Vietnam or Tommie Smith and John Carlos raising their   fists at the 1968 Olympics. ’ ’   He declined, pointing out: ”I’’m not black, I’’m O. J.” ’ ’   With the Watts riots in 1965 and the assassination of Dr. Martin   Luther King, Jr. still fresh on the minds of   by   the early 1970s, Simpson was far removed from the frontlines of   what black people dealt with on a daily basis. ’ ”   But that didn’t mean he was without his own demons. One of the   most revealing moments of part one is when a childhood friend of   Simpson’s describes seeing Simpson’s father, divorced from his   mother, in his apartment with another man, both wearing only bath   robes. Simpson has rarely ever spoken about his father in   interviews, and friends of O. J. say in the movie they never   talked to Simpson about his father being gay. But Edleman plants   a   issue that we will see more developed later in   forthcoming parts of the documentary. ” ’  ’ ”   By the late 1970s, Simpson really did seem to transcend racial   perception in his role as a pitchman for Hertz. Edelman doesn’t   just give us a look at how the popular campaign was created but   drives home the point that at this point in his life, Simpson was   one of the most recognizable faces in the country. ” ”   With that kind of fame comes a lot of power and temptation.   Simpson, now living in Hollywood and estranged from Marguerite,   becomes obsessed with an    named Nicole Brown, and   there begins the next chapter in Simpson’s life and inevitably   his  . ” ’   In part one of ”O. J.: Made in America,” Edelman uses incredible   detail   archival footage, interviews   to show us Simpson   becoming the person he wanted to be since growing up in the   projects. But what he also hints at is that the downfall of   Simpson was not a moment of rage or someone snapping. ’ ”   Simpson’s disregard for others has been around since the   beginning. Whether it’s stealing his best friend’s girlfriend in   high school or on his first date with Nicole Brown, ripping her   jeans when she declines his advances. ” ”   But when you’ve spent your life being told you’re great, and   you’re now one of the most famous people in the world, what you   want becomes yours. ” ’ Part two of ”O. J.: Made in America” airs on ESPN on June   14. ’ ’America’s fascination with O. J. Simpson. ..’