’  ’ ’   The mass shooting that erupted at a gay nightclub in Orlando and   left 50 people dead is renewing arguments about who should be   able to own   weapons in the US. ’ ’   The suspected gunman,    Omar Mateen, had an     assault rifle and a handgun  early Sunday morning. ’ ’   FBI officials say despite Mateen  since 2013, he was able to   legally purchase the guns used in the massacre. ’ ”   When asked why Mateen was still able to obtain his weapons   despite his past   with federal authorities, retired Army   intelligence officer and Stetson University law professor,   Charles Rose III said it came down to the FBI’s lack of concrete   action against Mateen. ” ’   ”If the FBI had identified the shooter as someone with possible   terrorist links, the ability to purchase a firearm might have   been taken from him,” Rose said in a conversation with Business   Insider. ’ ’   He said, if nothing else, the shooter ”might have at least been   higher on a watch list.” ’ ’   Rose notes that ” ” occurs when authorities have   ”actionable intelligence, but not enough to detain [a person]   based upon probable cause.” ’ ’   He said the root of the problem is in the way the US handles   domestic terrorism as ”a criminal, rather than a military   activity.” In doing so, Rose added, the suspect retains their   Constitutional rights. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Someone can assert their association with ISIS under the freedom   of speech umbrella and say they’’re going to do something, but   until they do it, they have all protections afforded to them   under the law,” he said. ’ ’   Rose suggested that if one’’s association with a terrorist   organization resulted in them being classified as an ”enemy   combatant, or a partisan under the Geneva Convention,” suspects   would be stripped of their Constitutional protections. He says   the reason why that is not the case is ”strictly political.” ’ ’     advocates have pushed for stronger restrictions on   certain types of buyers in recent years, but conclusive   legislation on the matter has been fleeting. ’ ’   In January, President Barack Obama  designed to narrow the   ”  loophole,” by requiring firearms dealers to issue   tougher background checks on prospective buyers. ’ ”   Obama’s actions also expanded the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,   Firearms, and Explosives, aimed to improve     treatment, and sponsored new research into   technology. ” ’The mass shooting that erupted at a gay. ..’