’  ’ ”   Barack Obama is prepared to campaign for his party’s likely   nominee more than any sitting president in recent history     starting next week in Green Bay, Wisconsin. ” ’   That could be a big problem for the GOP. And a huge boon for   Hillary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee whom . ’ ’   ”I’’m fired up,” Obama said in a video endorsing Clinton. ’ ”   And ready to go. Last month, an   Street Journal poll   found that President Barack Obama’s approval rating had jumped to   51%   its highest point since his second inauguration.  ” ’   NBC’’s team of political analysts called it the ”most important   number” out of the new poll. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Early this year, Obama’s approval rating hit 50% in the weekly   average from Gallup’s daily survey. Almost three months later,   his number in Gallup’s poll stands at 54% his highest level   since January 2013. For Obama, whose approval ratings have been   stuck in the   to  % range for much of his second term,   it was a notable bump. ” ’   ”While it’’s hard to pinpoint precisely why Obama’’s approval   rating has risen among Democrats recently, there are a number of   plausible explanations,” wrote Andrew Dugan, a Gallup analyst,   and Frank Newport, the organization’’s    in a post   earlier this year. ’ ’   One of the explanations, the pair concurred, was that ”the   unusual status of the Republican primary race   exemplified in   particular by frontrunner Donald Trump’’s campaign style and   rhetoric   may serve to make Obama look statesmanlike in   comparison.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump has come into Obama’s crosshairs recently. And with good   reason: More so than at any other presidential   in recent   history, so many elements of the current administration’s legacy   are at stake. ” ’   The presumptive Republican nominee has pledged to undo signature   achievements on healthcare (the Affordable Care) the environment   (historic new regulations aimed at curbing climate change) and   foreign policy (the Iran nuclear deal). ’ ”   Ben LaBolt, a former spokesman for Obama’s presidential   campaigns, told Business Insider that those themes will become   evident as the president launches into what will be his final   campaign: preventing a Trump presidency. And LaBolt suggested   Obama is the perfect messenger. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Obama’s approval ratings at this point are far better than his   predecessor, President George W. Bush, off whose unpopularity   Obama thrived during his 2008 run. His level is most directly   comparable to former President Ronald Reagan, who in March 1988   held a 51% approval rating, according to Gallup.  ” ”   That same year, voters selected George H. W. Bush   Reagan’s vice   president   to succeed him.  ” ’   ”Yes,” said Ari Fleischer, President George W. Bush’’s press   secretary, when asked earlier this year if Obama’’s apparent   rising popularity poses a problem for the Republican Party. ’ ’   ”Certainly, going into an election spring and summer, it’’s better   to have an incumbent president increasingly popular rather than   less popular if you’’re the incumbent party,” he told Business   Insider. ’ ’   The numbers present a striking contrast to some data points   associated with the current Republican presidential frontrunner. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s favorability numbers are without precedent for a modern     candidate, according to the   Street   Journal poll. Overall,    according to the survey. And his   rating was   negative 29   only slightly better than two months before, when   he garnered the worst   rating in the history of   the   poll for a major presidential candidate.  ” ’   ”I’’ve been doing this [since] 1964, which is the Goldwater   years,”     Peter Hart  of the relative unpopularity of many   of the candidates earlier in the year. ”To me, this is the low   point. I’’ve seen the disgust and the polarization. Never, never   seen anything like this. They’’re not going up; they’’re going   down.” ’ ”   However, Obama’s approval rating at this point is actually lower   than that of President Bill Clinton in March 2000. But, as Gallup   has noted, the 2016 election is somewhat different than the one   that featured George W. Bush running against Al Gore, Clinton’s   vice president. ” ”   Hillary Clinton is attaching herself to much of Obama’s legacy.   And Obama remains favorable to wide swaths of constituencies whom   Clinton needs to turn out to vote in November. The president held   high approval ratings among   (90%) Democrats   (82%) Latinos (73%) and voters aged 18 to 34 (64%). ” ”   And despite the strong primary challenge from Sen. Bernie   Sanders, in many ways, Clinton has run an     campaign, and she has much of the party’s establishment rallying   behind her candidacy. That wasn’t the case for Gore in 2000. ” ”   As Gallup’s Dugan and Newport wrote earlier this year: ” ’   They concluded: ”Prior to that, George H. W. Bush in 1988   presented himself as a natural heir to the Reagan legacy and was   able to win his own term.” ’ ’Barack Obama is prepared to campaign for his. ..’