’  ’ ”   Senate Democrats pledged on Monday to reintroduce a bill banning   people on the terror watch list from buying weapons in the   aftermath of Sunday morning’s massacre at an LGBTQ nightclub in   Orlando, Florida. ” ’   The massacre left at least 49 people dead and dozens more   wounded. It was the deadliest mass shooting in US history. ’ ’   The suspected gunman, Omar Mateen, 29, was born in the US to   Afghan parents, and, according to his father, was recently   disturbed by seeing two men kissing in Miami. ’ ’   The shooting is being investigated as an act of terrorism, as   Mateen allegedly pledged allegiance to ISIS and other terrorist   organizations . The FBI confirmed that it had conducted   two   investigations into Mateen in recent years. ’ ”   During a Monday conference call, Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York   said that, if the bill was passed when first brought before the   Senate in December, then the terrorist attack would’ve been   avoided. ” ’   In December, just one day following the San Bernardino,   California, attacks, Senate Republicans rejected the bill   stopping suspected terrorists from buying weapons.  ’ ’   The bill failed on a     vote. North Dakota Sen.   Heidi Headlamp was the lone Democrat to vote against the bill   while Illinois Sen. Mark Kirk was the lone Republican to vote in   favor of it. Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, a Democrat, did not vote. ’ ’   California Sen. Dianne Feinstein sponsored the legislation, and   argued, as she did again during the Monday conference call, that   former President George W. Bush initially proposed the   legislation in 2007. ’ ’   ”Now that we have lone wolves inspired by ISIL, even more [see]   the reason to do this than ever before,” Schumer said. ”It made   sense 10 years ago, it makes even more sense today.” ’ ’   The Democratic senator said that the bill might be tucked into a   recent appropriations bill brought before the Senate by Senate   Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Senate Minority Leader Harry   Reid also insisted on Monday that his party will be bringing the   bill before Congress ”as soon as possible.” ’ ’   ”We’’re just asking for people to come into this country and go   out and buy a gun,” Feinstein said during the call with   reporters, later adding, ”Even if you’’re a suspected terrorist,   you can go out and buy a gun. And that’’s just not right. So I   hope there will be a change.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Both presumptive presidential nominees, Donald Trump and Hillary   Clinton, voiced their opinions on this issue during dueling   Monday speeches. Trump promised to do nothing in regards to   promoting   legislation, while Clinton expressed   solidarity with the Democratic senators. ’ ’   Clinton said: ’ ’   Schumer insisted on Monday that the bill will do better this time   around. ’ ’   He said: ’ ’   He added that the bill will include provisions for a ”quick and   speedy appeals process” for those placed on the terror watch   list. ’ ’   ”Believe me,” he said. ”President Bush wouldn’’t have put together   a bill that took away people’’s legitimate rights.” ’ ’   But, he said, rights don’’t ”trump everything.” ’ ’   ”We can have both,” he continued. ”We can have people’’s rights   protected and we can have safety. And that’’s what this   legislation does. As I said, George Bush, who was hardly the   strongest advocate of gun control in America, drafted it.” ’ ’   Also on the conference call, Connecticut Sen. Richard Blumenthal   said that ”all rights have to be balanced.” ’ ’   ”No right is absolute,” he said, adding that the bill ”would   provide a due process to remove people from the list . .. that is   an absolute requirement.” ’ ’   ”Many of our Republican colleagues who are hardline on individual   rights on this amendment seem to blow those rights away on other   amendments,” Schumer said. ”Hardly consistent.” ’ ’   ”In terms of terrorism, this is the most effective piece of   legislation we can pass,” he continued. ’ ’Senate Democrats pledged on Monday to. ..’