’  ’ ’   Bozoma Saint John stole the show. ’ ”   The Apple Music executive doesn’t have nearly the same name   recognition as the senior executives, from Eddy Cue to Craig   Federighi, who shuffled on to the stage at the annual developer   conference on Monday. ” ”   But Saint John quickly turned heads during her appearance at the   event, and not just because she got Apple’s audience to  ” ’BuzzFeed  ”the coolest person to ever go onstage at an   Apple event.” ’ ”   To her friends, though, it’s not a surprise that the Apple exec   would captivate the crowds. ” ’pple,” said Anjula     a partner at Trinity Ventures and friend of Saint   John’’s, in an interview with Business Insider. ”This was her   moment to shine.” ’ ’  ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tGlory and honor and praise to the Most High.  I’m ready.      ” ”   Her path to get to the Apple stage wasn’t easy. Born to Ghanaian   parents, Saint John moved with her family to Colorado Springs,   Colorado, when she was 14. Her father’s journey from joining the   Ghanaian army as a clarinet player to graduating from college in   the US continues to be her biggest inspiration to this day, she   says. ” ’   ”People who would have seen him on paper would have said he would   never achieve,” Saint John said in a  this past May. ’ ”   Saint John also went to Wesleyan University and spent a few years   after graduation at the ad agency Spike DDB. Then, Saint John’s   career took her to Pepsi for nearly a decade, with a quick stint   at fashion brand Ashley Stewart. ” ’  ’ ’   Pepsi, though, was where Saint John made a name for herself in   music circles. She ran its music and entertainment marketing   group, a division that she practically invented herself, after   she suggested that Pepsi start sponsoring music festivals and   award shows. ’ ’   It was in that role at Pepsi that Saint John met     who also manages ”Quantico” TV star Priyanka Chopra. ’ ’   ”d in all seriousness I   was blown away with her in our very first meeting,”     said. ”She inspires me every day with her fearless nature.” ’ ’   Her passion for music led her to move across the country from New   York to Los Angeles to oversee marketing for Beats Music. Jimmy   Iovine picked her personally from Pepsi,   said. ’ ’   ”And if there is one person who knows talent, it’’s him. She   champions global talent and has a unique perspective,”     said. ”She’’s willing to take risks and share her   opinions no matter how controversial they may be at the time.” ’ ’ ’ ”   Now that it’s an   company, Saint John splits her time   between Cupertino and Los Angeles, flying back and forth multiple   times a week. Apple Music launched in June 2015, but Saint John’s   time onstage was to highlight how the company has now rebuilt it   from the ground up. That includes extra effects like lyrics,   which she wanted to get the crowd to sing along to. She closed it   out by playing Ghanaian music, in a nod to her family background. ” ”   Her passion, though, was what captured the crowd and the   attendees at WWDC. As for whether she could be the next Apple   CEO,   doesn’t doubt that Saint John could be anything   she wants to be. ” ’   ”She is a strong female leader who is no doubt going to go on to   amazing things across tech. She is one of the few people that   truly understand tech and pop culture and that will take her a   long way,”   said. ’ ’Bozoma Saint John stole the show. The Apple. ..’