’  ’ ’   LOS ANGELES (AP)   An Indiana man was charged Tuesday with three   felony weapons violations after authorities say they found three   assault rifles and explosive chemicals in his car before a major   Los Angeles gay pride parade. ’ ’   James Wesley Howell, 20, made his first appearance in Los Angeles   County Superior Court, where a lawyer entered not guilty pleas on   his behalf to charges of possessing an assault weapon, possessing   a destructive device on a public street, and importing or   manufacturing a large magazine. ’ ’   He also was charged with a misdemeanor count of possessing a   loaded firearm in a vehicle. ’ ’   A judge set bail at $2 million, saying Howell poses ”a   significant public safety danger.” ’ ’   A federal investigation of Howell was ongoing, said Laura   Eimiller, an FBI spokeswoman in Los Angeles. ’ ’   Howell was arrested Sunday in Santa Monica, when police say the   weapons and explosives were found in a car he apparently drove   from Indiana. Howell told police he was headed to a gay pride   event in West Hollywood that attracts hundreds of thousands of   people. ’ ”   It’s unclear whether Howell intended any violence at the LA Pride   event, but the timing of the arrest   hours after the massacre at   a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida   put police and event   organizers on heightened alert. ” ’   Not too much can be inferred at this point simply because Howell   only faces state charges, said Rebecca Lonergan, a former federal   prosecutor who teaches national security law at the University of   Southern California. ’ ’   If no charges had been filed by Tuesday, authorities would have   had to release Howell. The state charges allow him to be held   while federal investigators continue their probe, Lonergan said. ’ ’   ”In the atmosphere we have where there is such great concern   about active shooters, about terrorism, about hate crimes, both   the state and federal investigators are going to want to   thoroughly look at this guy,” she said. ’ ”   Federal agents searched Howell’s Jeffersonville, Indiana, home on   Monday but declined to release any details. ” ”   On Tuesday, the sheriff’s office in Clark County, Indiana, said   Howell also is the subject of a sexual assault investigation. The   incident occurred on May 31, about two weeks before Howell’s   arrest in California. ” ’   Bobby Boyd, a Kentucky attorney who represented Howell in a local   case, did not return a message seeking comment. ’ ”   In October, Howell was accused twice within four days of pulling   a gun and making threats. The first incident involved Howell’s     and the second a neighbor. ” ’  ’ ’   Both men told The Associated Press that Howell was  . ’ ’   ”He’’s got a lot of anger problems,” said Richard Hambrick,   Howell’’s  . ’ ’   Grace Logsdon, Howell’’s former roommate, said Howell owned five   guns and had a bad temper. During one trip to a gun range, she   said Howell told her: ”’’I wish I could kill a lot of people. ’’” ’ ’   Howell was convicted in April of misdemeanor intimidation   stemming from the incident involving his neighbor and was   sentenced to a year of probation. Under terms of his probation,   Howell was not allowed to have weapons or leave Indiana. ’ ”   Charlestown police Detective Capt. Chuck Ledbetter said the   handgun Howell used in the intimidation case was the only one the   department seized from him. A rifle that   Hambrick   said Howell pointed at him wasn’t seized because no arrest was   made at the time, Ledbetter said. ” ’   If convicted of all the charges, prosecutors say Howell could   face up to nine years and eight months in prison. ’ ’ Associated Press writers Christopher Weber contributed to   this report from Los Angeles, Claire Galofaro contributed from   Jeffersonville, Indiana, and Dylan Lovan contributed from   Charlestown, Indiana. Davies contributed from Indianapolis. ’ ’LOS ANGELES (AP)  —   An Indiana man was charged Tuesday with three felony weapons violations after authorities say they found three assault rifles and explosive chemicals in his car before a major Los Angeles gay pride parade.’