’  ’ ’   Bob Corker is discouraged by Donald Trump . ’ ”   The Tennessee senator, chair of the Senate Foreign Relations   Committee, and   rumored running mate for Trump, said on   Tuesday that he was let down by Trump’s immediate reaction to the   Orlando terrorist attack   the deadliest mass shooting in US   history. ” ’   ”It wasn’’t the kind of response that I would expect when 50   people have perished,” Corker said, . ”You know, I think I’’ve offered   words of public encouragement in important times and continue to   be discouraged by the results.” ’ ’   ”I continue to be discouraged by the direction of the campaign   and the comments that are made,” he continued. ”And I did not   think yesterday’’s speech was the type of speech that one would   give who wants to lead this country through difficult times.” ’ ”   Corker joins what is becoming a growing list of leading   Republicans who are not pleased with Trump’s visceral response to   the Orlando tragedy. ” ’   In the aftermath of the deadly attack, Trump renewed his calls   for the barring of Muslim immigrants and even went as far as to   suggest ’ ’   A number of Republicans in Congress have either publicly   distanced themselves from such comments, particularly the   rhetoric on immigration, or gone a step further and rebuked them. ’ ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan said on Tuesday at the House GOP   leadership briefing that Trump’’s Muslim proposal was not   ”reflective of our principles, not just as a party, but as a   country.” ’ ’   ”And I think the smarter way to go in all respects is to have a   security test, not a religious test,” he said. ’ ’   ”You don’’t ban somebody on race [or] religion,” House Majority   Leader Kevin McCarthy echoed at the same event. ”I don’’t see that   coming to the floor.” ’ ’  ’ ’   South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham dismissed the plan on Tuesday   as well. ’ ’   The South Carolina Republican, who at one time was competing   against Trump in the presidential race, also called his   suggestion about Obama’’s allegiances ”beyond out of line.” ’ ’   ”I’’ve never doubted that he loves his country,” Graham . ”I think he has a worldview that I don’’t agree   with, in terms of how to deal with radical Islam. I don’’t think   he’’s sympathetic to their causes, I think he’’s just made poor   policy choices.” ’ ’   Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake, who’’s been increasingly critical of   Trump, said that he hopes Trump will change some policy   positions, but is ”not optimistic,” . ’ ’  ’ ’   And, late on Tuesday afternoon, Tennessee Sen. Lamar Alexander   provided perhaps the strongest Republican detachment from Trump. ’ ’   ”We don’’t have a nominee,” Alexander  ’ ’   After being told that Trump is the party’’s presumptive   presidential nominee, the Republican shot back: ”That’’s what you   say.” ’ ”   Meanwhile, other GOP senators, such as   and    seemingly tired of having to   address the presumptive nominee’s constant controversies   simply   avoided discussing Trump’s response to the Orlando terrorist   attack. ” ’   Democrats have attempted to seize the moment, with Obama   delivering . ’ ’   ”Where does this stop?” the president rhetorically asked. ’ ’   Obama added: ”Are we going to start treating all Muslim Americans   differently? Are we going to start subjecting them to special   surveillance?” ’ ’   Trump responded to the criticism from the president, contending   that while Obama says he ”claims to know our enemy,” he   ”continues to prioritize our enemy over our allies, and for that   matter, the American people. ’ ’   ”[W]hen I am president, it will always be America first.” ’ ’Bob Corker is discouraged by Donald Trump yet. ..’