’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton took a commanding lead over Donald Trump in a new   national poll on Tuesday. ’ ”   A new Bloomberg Politics poll, conducted by notable pollster Ann   Selzer, showed Clinton with a   lead over her Republican   rival, garnering 49% support to Trump’s 37% support. ” ’   The poll surveyed 1, 000 voters over three days beginning on June   10, and contained a margin of error of 3. 6%. ’ ”   Though Clinton’s lead comes just weeks after polls showed that   the two presumptive nominees are running virtually tied in   hypothetical   matchups, it didn’t come as a   complete shock to some observers. ” ”   After contentious primaries, candidates  in their support in polls after   securing their party’s nomination. Trump experienced a boost in   his support among Republicans after his Republican rivals dropped   out following the Indiana primary. ” ’’ ’   Trump fared well in at least one area: national security. ’ ’   ’ ’   Some political observers speculated that the shooting could   benefit Trump, who has experienced a surge in polls after   suggesting that the US should bar all Muslims from entering the   US in the wake of a terrorist attack in San Bernardino,   California. ’ ’   Indeed,  released on Tuesday found Clinton with an   11.  lead over Trump, down slightly from the   lead   she had in several previous days leading up to the attack. ’ ”   Still, the results of Tuesday’s poll show that the attack in   Orlando was not nearly enough to put a dent in the former   secretary of state’s lead. Trump’s insinuation that President   Barack Obama sympathized with the Orlando attacker was met with   61% disapproval, while 64% of survey respondents expected him to   say more inflammatory statements that would upset Republicans. ” ’   ”Clinton has a number of advantages in this poll, in addition to   her lead,” Selzer said, according to Bloomberg. ”Her supporters   are more enthusiastic than Trump’’s and more voters overall see   her becoming a more appealing candidate than say that for Trump.” ’ ’   The Bloomberg poll was the second survey on Tuesday to show   Clinton with a commanding lead. ’ ”   An   weekly tracking poll released on Tuesday   morning  Clinton with a   lead over Trump, a     bump over NBC’s tracking poll two weeks ago. ” ’Hillary Clinton took a commanding lead over. ..’