’  ’ ’   Over the past several weeks, letters in defense of Brock Turner,   the      swimmer  an unconscious woman in   2015, have emerged. ’ ’   They are, as expected, staunchly in support of Turner. All 39   letters paint a similar picture of the person Turner was in high   school and college before he was convicted of three counts of   felony sexual assault. ’ ’   Close friends, family members, former coaches, and teammates   supplied the letters to Judge Aaron Persky, who presided over the   case. Most of them describe Turner as a humble, driven, and shy   individual, and they aimed to persuade the court to give him a   light sentence. ’ ’   ”The Brock I knew as a senior in high school was shy,   contemplative, and endearing,” Amy Ostdiek, Turner’’s high school   English teacher, wrote. ”That young man should be allowed to find   himself, to try to understand himself and others, to make the   world a better place.” ’ ”   Kelly Owens, Turner’s high school guidance counselor, also wrote   an impassioned letter to the court. ” ’   ”Brock was not only a favorite among his peers, his teachers   genuinely respected and appreciated his contributions to their   classes,” she wrote, before begging Persky to consider Turner’’s   future. ’ ”   Owens’ letter continued: ” ’   Defendants and their friends and family often write letters to   the court in the hopes of obtaining a lesser sentence. Even    and close friend came to Turner’’s   defense in a letter stating that he ”never once pressured” her   into ”any situation.” ’ ’   Those pleas   in addition to    may have resonated with Persky. ’ ’  ’ ”   Many, including the Santa Clara district attorney,  and doesn’t match the severity of Turner’s crime. ” ”   While it’s impossible to know if the letters affected Persky,   they offer a glimpse into how persuasively friends and family   argued that Turner shouldn’t receive a harsh sentence. ” ”   Turner’s family members provided what they intended to be some of   the most humanizing accounts of their son, grandson, and brother. ” ’   His maternal grandparents, who are 82 and 78, began their letter   by saying they’’re ”very aware of the inevitability of time”   before they explain Turner’’s relationship with their son, who had   an intellectual disability. ’ ’   ”We know [Turner] as a kind and caring individual, including   being attentive at an early age to the needs of his uncle, who   was profoundly mentally challenged, multiply physically   handicapped and ” read the letter from Carolyn and   Richard Bradfield. ’ ’   His mother, too, sent a letter to the court. ’ ’   ”He was a shy and awkward    far away from home trying   to fit in with the swimmers he idolized,” Turner’’s mother,   Carleen Turner, wrote. ’ ’   She also aimed to dissolve the notion their family came from a   privileged background by calling them ”working  ” and   mentioning that her two other children have $60, 000 and $30, 000   in debt. ’ ”   Carleen explained how registering as a sex offender will affect   the rest of her son’s life: ” ’  ’ ”   Despite facing a maximum of 14 years in prison and prosecutors   asking for 10 years, Persky sentenced Turner to six months in a   county jail and three years’ probation. ” ’   ”A prison sentence would have a severe impact on him. I think he   will not be a danger to others,” . ’ ’  ’ ’   Turner, however, will likely only serve . He must also register as a sex offender for the   rest of his life. ’ ”   Detractors have accused Persky   also a star athlete during his   time at Stanford   of bias in sentencing Turner. Although the   defense letters plead for leniency,  a professor of law emeritus at UCLA, doesn’t   believe they necessarily led Persky to issue a light sentence. ” ’   ”Most   letters come from family members and   family friends of the defendant who have an obvious bias that   judges usually discount at sentencing,” Arenella told Business   Insider via email. ’ ”   That doesn’t mean Persky wasn’t otherwise biased, though. ” ’   ”This sentencing judge erred in my opinion because of an   unconscious class bias and a failure to give adequate weight to   the severity of the crime and the defendant’’s great culpability   in committing it in this manner,” Arenella said. ’ ”   Since Turner’s sentencing, more than  calling for the   permanent removal of Persky, who was recently excused from   another sexual assault case. ” ’Over the past several weeks, letters in defense. ..’