’  ’ ”   A House candidate backed by Sen.  lost a congressional primary Tuesday night in Nevada,   dealing the first blow to Sanders’ plans for a     revolution. ” ”   Lucy Flores   whom Sanders  in Nevada’s crowded 4th District   primary and helped raise hundreds of thousands of dollars   came   in second by a . ” ’   She lost to Ruben Kihuen, who was backed by Senate Minority   Leader Harry Reid, an establishment figure in the Democratic   Party. ’ ’   A second Democrat, Jesse Sbaih, who endorsed Sanders’’ primary bid   and ran as a   ”Berniecrat,” lost by an even wider    in Nevada’’s neighboring 3rd   District.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tNot only did  lose the D. C. primary, but with  and  losses, it seems he also lost the Nevada primary. ’t’t’ ’   The losses highlight the challenges Sanders will face to keep his   ”political revolution” alive after the bright lights of the   presidential primary shut off.  ’ ”   As Clinton’s lead in the primary over Sanders grew this spring,   the Vermont senator began  progressive Democrats who shared his   policy agenda in an attempt to alter the   of Congress.   It’s a game plan the senator could continue, as he’s unlikely to   be the Democratic nominee after Clinton clinched the nomination   last week. ” ’   But simply put, motivating supporters to head to the polls for     races   from congressional seats to positions in   state legislatures   is much more challenging than     presidential contests. ’ ”   And it’s a bad sign for his upcoming proxy battle against Rep.   Debbie Wasserman Schultz in Florida. ” ”   Sanders  Wasserman Schultz’s primary opponent,   Tim Canova,  the upstart challenger raise more than   $1 million as he attempts to unseat the chair of the Democratic   National Committee in an August primary. ” ’   Yet Canova will face off with Wasserman Schultz in a House   district located in a county that with nearly 70% of the vote.    ’ ”   That spells trouble for Canova’s chances at unseating Wasserman   Schultz. ” ’A House candidate backed by Sen. Bernie. ..’