’  ’ ’   More than 60 years after the US dropped dozens of nuclear bombs   on the Marshall Islands, residents of the tiny nation still may   not be able to return. ’ ’   Radiation levels in some areas of the country are almost double   what is deemed safe for human habitation, according to  in the journal Proceedings of the   National Academy of Sciences. ’ ’   Between 1946 and 1958, the US tested 67 nuclear weapons on the   Marshall Islands, a chain of atolls in the Pacific Ocean with a   population of just 52, 000. ’ ’   The most famous test, the ”Bravo shot,” was dropped on Bikini   Atoll in 1954 and was  than the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. ’ ’   Residents of the atoll were displaced, and today it remains   uninhabited. ’ ’   The researchers discovered that radioactive materials on Bikini   Atoll are producing 184 millirems of radiation a year   almost   double the safety standard of 100 set by the US and the Marshall   Islands. Some parts of the region hit a whopping 639 millirems   per year. ’ ”   Scientists had once predicted Bikini Atoll’s radiation levels to   be as low as 16 millirems a year, suggesting that the radiation   has persisted far longer than previously imagined, . ” ’   There is a silver lining for the Marshallese: The other five   islands analyzed in the study fell safely below the       threshold. ’ ’  ’ ’   The research could help clear the way for many displaced   Marshallese to return home. Currently, almost  lives in the main urban area of   Majuro, and as rising shorelines threaten to  the country is becoming increasingly   overcrowded. ’ ’   American nuclear testing remains an unmistakable piece of the   national psyche, and officials continue to fight for global   nuclear disarmament. In March, the nation  in a largely symbolic   attempt to pressure them to dismantle their nuclear arsenals. ’ ’   Meanwhile, refugees and their descendants are finding homes in   the US, particularly in the thriving Marshallese communities in   Honolulu and . ’ ”   More testing needs to be done on the islands’ food and water   sources to determine whether they are safe for habitation, the   scientists wrote. ” ’More than 60 years after the US dropped dozens. ..’