’  ’ ’   Four   bills are set to receive a vote on the Senate   floor on Monday, as the demand for   legislation   reaches a fever pitch in the aftermath of the Orlando, Florida,   terrorist attack   the deadliest mass shooting in US history. ’ ’   Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced the votes late   on Thursday afternoon. Two of the bills were sponsored by   Republicans, while two were backed by Democrats. All will need 60   votes in order to pass, and each is being proposed as an   amendment to the commerce, justice, and science appropriations   bill before the Senate. ’ ’   The announcement came  a   Connecticut Democrat, on Wednesday. Along with fellow Senate   Democrats, Murphy is backing a bill to enhance universal   background checks, which would close the       loophole, and a bill to ban suspected terrorists on terror watch   lists from buying weapons. ’ ’   That second Democratic bill, sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein   of California, failed on a   vote in December, just one   day after the San Bernardino, California, attacks. It was voted   down by a   margin, and just one Republican   Sen. Mark Kirk   of Illinois   voted in favor of the bill. ’ ’ Sen. Chuck Schumer of New   York said that if the bill were passed when first brought before   the Senate in December, then the Orlando terrorist attack would   have been avoided. ’ ’   ”We’’re just asking for people to come into this country and go   out and buy a gun,” Feinstein said during that call with   reporters, later adding, ”Even if you’’re a suspected terrorist,   you can go out and buy a gun. And that’’s just not right. So I   hope there will be a change.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Opponents to the Feinstein bill say that, since you can be placed   on a terror watch list without being found guilty of a crime,   then it could cause US citizens on the list to be erroneously   stripped of their Second Amendment right without due process. ’ ’   ”Is going after the Second Amendment how you stop terrorism? No,”   House Speaker Paul Ryan said during his Thursday press briefing.   ”That’’s not how you stop terrorism.” ’ ’ of Connecticut  among others, have insisted   that due process elements will be ”baked into it.” ’ ”   The lead Republican proposal was reintroduced by Sen. John Cornyn   of Texas on Thursday. It’s a slightly altered version of the   SHIELD Act, which was shot down late last year. ” ’   If passed, the attorney general can delay a weapons purchase by   any person who is either a known or suspected terrorist, or has   been subjected to a   investigation within the   past five years for three days. Law enforcement would need to get   a court order within that   window in order to stop the   sale, should probable cause be shown before a judge. The bill   also allows for the attorney general to take the buyer into   custody if a judge determines probable cause. ’ ’   Cornyn said in the release: ’ ’  ’ ’   McConnell came out in favor of the legislation, calling it a   ”serious solution” in a release. The National Rifle Association     soon after presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump tweeted on   Wednesday about meeting with the organization to discuss   potential     gun control with the   organization   announced its support of the legislation. ’ ’   The second Republican proposal came from Pennsylvania Sen. Pat   Toomey. He crafted legislation that would direct the attorney   general to create a new list of suspected terrorists who could be   barred from buying weapons. ’ ’   ”We don’’t want terrorists to be able to walk into a gun store and   buy a gun, and we don’’t want innocent,   citizens to be   denied Second Amendment rights because he’’s wrongly on the list   with a bunch of terrorists,” Toomey said during a Wednesday   speech on the Senate floor. ’ ”   The Pennsylvania senator’s bill is not up before the Senate on   Monday. ” ’   Democrats roundly rejected both pieces of legislation. ’ ’  ’ ’   Booker said during a CNN interview: ’ ’   He added that the legislation is a front to ensure that ”no   legislation passes.” ’ ’   Schumer called the proposals ”wolves in sheep’’s clothing” during   a Thursday press conference, adding that under Cornyn’’s proposal   ”every terrorist will get a gun.” ’ ’   ”If the FBI had that evidence, they would’’ve arrested them in the   first place,” he said. ”It’’s a fake. It’’s a way to say they’’re   doing something when they’’re doing nothing.” ’ ’   A ”whole court case in three days?” he continued. ”Who would   think that would make any sense!” ’ ’   He said that Toomey’’s proposal ”was even worse” because it would   force the government to rebuild a new terror watch list. ’ ’   ”We’’ll be here for decades!” he said. ’ ’   Another   proposal set to go before the Senate on   Monday is backed by Iowa Sen. Chuck Grassley. It would ensure   that the FBI is alerted of terrorism suspects who purchase a   weapon without barring them from doing so. Anyone being   investigated or who had been investigated for     activities within five years would be entered into the National   Instant Criminal Background Check System and the FBI would be   notified if one was buying a weapon. ’ ’   The recent push for added gun control came after 49 people were   shot dead at an LGBTQ nightclub in Orlando by a gunman who   pledged allegiance to ISIS. ’ ’Four   bills are set to receive a. ..’