’  ’ ’   The day Snapchat brought in the bed was a weird day in the   office. Next came the hangers in the closet with clothes on them   and the pictures of random people on the walls. ’ ’   Before long, it looked like Snapchat had set up an apartment   inside the office, a former employee told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”It was like an IKEA set up, but nobody really slept there,” the     said. ’ ”   Adding a bed wasn’t just a new office perk. ” ”   For the last 18 months, Snapchat has been inspected by the city   of Los Angeles for its use of the Thornton Lofts apartment   spaces, which the company uses as offices. The beds were hauled   in ahead of an inspection by city officials, the former employee   claims, to give the impression that someone was living there when   really it was just more office space for Snapchat’s growing staff   to sprawl into. ” ’   A Snapchat representative said that the company was in compliance   with regulations, but declined to comment further on the matter   or provide information about who lives in the units. ’ ’   Yet some of the neighbors were suspicious. ’ ”   According to case records obtained by Business Insider through a     request, Snapchat’s office at 619 S. Ocean Front   Walk came under inspection by the LA Department of Building and   Safety starting in March 2015 after somebody complained that it   was being converted into another use. ” ’   The first complaint said that residents ”believe that a   commercial   use is being housed in the entire   building, when part of it is supposed to be residential condo   units.” ’ ’   The second complaint was more direct and included the other   office space it had been renting. ’ ’   ”The 10 residential units in the combined projects at 619 and 701   Ocean Front Walk are being used by Snapchat Inc. primarily for   office and not residential uses,” alleged the complaint. ’ ’   Parking spaces that were supposed to be available to the   community were also removed, according to the complaint. ’ ”   The friction with the neighbors and the unusual office   arrangement provide a revealing window into the rapid growth at   Snapchat, which has become one of the most popular apps among   teens, even as its operations have remained closely guarded by   the company’s penchant for secrecy and its Los Angeles home base,   hundreds of miles away from most of its internet rivals. ” ’   When an inspector toured the property in May, escorted by a   lawyer, he noted a kitchen, a shower, and a ”bedroom with a bed   and closet with clothing.” Alongside it were ”several docking   stations for computers used for commercial services.” Another     form notes that one condo included at least eight   desks set up. ’ ’   The condo units  as ” ” spaces, which means that Snapchat   would be allowed to use the apartments for work. But the units   must also have a resident, and it’’s unclear who is ”living” in   the Snapchat office. ’ ’  ’ ’   The furniture was added to make it look like someone was living   there in compliance, according to the   but no one   ever did. ’ ’   Instead, the perk of working in one of these      apartments meant that Snapchat employees would hit the beach and   then shower off in the bathroom. For people working late or on   odd shifts, there was a bed to nap on. The employees worked   around the fake photos on the walls and ignored the hangers in   the closets. ’ ’   On June 15, the inspector closed the case for the LA Department   of Building and Safety and referred it to the Los Angeles housing   department. ’ ’   Based in Venice, the $18 billion company has struggled to build   its   empire to match the pace of its growth. Snapchat   built its campus by expanding into small office buildings   throughout the eclectic neighborhood, instead of planting its   roots in a corporate office park, as its rivals up in Silicon   Valley have. ’ ’   That sprawl, though, has presented its challenges, as shown by   the inspections spurred by worried neighbors. ’ ”   Its expansion hasn’t slowed, though, and the company  to expand out of Venice by taking   up space at the Santa Monica airport. ” ’The day Snapchat brought in the bed was a weird. ..’