’  ’ ’   The Golden State Warriors were in total command after winning   Game 4 of the NBA Finals and taking a   series lead. ’ ’   And then it all fell apart. ’ ’   Their Game 4 was overshadowed by a  in the fourth   quarter, in which James walked over Green after knocking him   down. ’ ’   Green swung up at James, making contact near his groin before the   two went face to face and exchanged words. ’ ”   The NBA reviewed the play after the game and deemed it a Flagrant   1 foul on Green. It was Green’s fourth flagrant foul of the   postseason, resulting in an . ” ’   A golden opportunity for the Warriors to wrap up the championship   at home with a full roster suddenly became dimmer. Without Green,   the Warriors would be lacking their most versatile defender and   an important playmaker in their   offense. ’ ’   Facing elimination, the Cavs answered the call behind . The   Warriors, dearly missing Green, instead breathed life into a team   that looked dead 48 hours before. ’ ’   In the   to Game 6 in Cleveland, Green returned to the team   and told reporters a frank message. ’ ’   ”I have a strong belief that if I play in Game 5, we win,”   . ”But I didn’’t because I put myself in a situation   where I wasn’’t able to play.” ’ ”   It’s been discussed at length whether Green’s shot at James was   deserving of a suspension, but the larger point is that . Green knew his flagrant foul   count, and he had been warned by the NBA to keep it clean after   he escaped suspension for kicking Thunder center Steven Adams in   the groin. ” ’   Green admitted that he put himself in a bad situation by   involving the NBA when he should have controlled himself. Green   is not wrong to suggest that if he played Game 5, the Warriors   could be current    champions at this moment. ’ ”   Instead, the Warriors’ task of closing out the Cavs grew harder   as they went back to Cleveland in Game 6. Much like in Game 3,   the Cavs stormed out of the gate, effectively ending the game   when it started. The Warriors clawed their way back to make it   competitive, but each time they did, an increasingly confident   LeBron held them off. ” ’   The Finals series is now tied   going back to Oakland for a   decisive Game 7, and the two teams appear to be trending in   different directions. ’ ’  ’ ”   On one end there’s James and the Cavs, who have their swagger   back. There’s LeBron James swatting Curry’s layup attempt into   the stands and talking trash after. There’s Tyronn Lue laughing   at Curry after he got ejected for throwing his mouth guard into   the stands when he fouled out. ” ”   On the other, the Warriors look lost. Curry has posted gaudy, but   hollow stats. His deep threes and drives to the rim aren’t   igniting the Warriors as they did through 82 games this season.   Klay Thompson has strung together scoring explosions, but they   haven’t been enough to propel the Warriors. Green was quiet in   his Game 6 return, and Harrison Barnes and Shaun Livingston, role   players who proved so crucial in Games 1 and 2, are nowhere to be   found. ” ’   This was the Warriors worst nightmare, and it’’s come to fruition.   The sports world often likes to invoke the cliché of not playing   with your food. Failing to put away a series at the first   opportunity comes with many repercussions. Curry and Thompson   continue to log more miles on their tired legs. Andrew Bogut is   out for the series after injuring his knee in Game 5. Andre   Iguodala hurt his back in Game 6, limiting his effectiveness as   the Warriors’’ ”LeBron stopper”. Each game brings with it an   unknown risk, and the Warriors have invited that risk by not   putting away the Cavs when they had their best shot. ’ ”   Golden State is as resilient a team as the NBA has seen. This   postseason, they’ve twice survived injuries to Stephen Curry.   They were on the brink of elimination against a dominant Thunder   team before rattling off three straight wins to advance to the   Finals. Even in Games 4 and 5 of the Finals, they were within   striking distance of the Cavs late in the game before Cleveland   used big runs to put them away. There are certainly reasons for   the Warriors to be optimistic, not the least of which is playing   Game 7 on their home court. Additionally, they haven’t lost three   straight games since Steve Kerr was hired in 2014. ” ”   But there’s no doubting the Cavs’ confidence. They’ve twice   staved off elimination behind Herculean play from James and his   supporting cast. James and the Cavs have woken up, and a   potential dynasty could rest on the outcome of Green’s fateful   reaction to LeBron James stepping over him. ” ’The Golden State Warriors were in total command. ..’