’  ’ ’   Soda consumption is falling in the US, with the accepted reason   being that Americans are turning away from sugary beverages. ’ ”   But what if the reason isn’t nutrition   it’s because a new   competitor is stealing away business? ” ’   ”Starbucks has taken the [carbonated soda] occasion,” said RBC   analyst Nik Modi in June at Beverage Digest’’s Future Smarts   conference, noting that many of the coffee chain’’s beverages are   more caloric and   than top soda brands.   ’ ’   ”Twenty years ago, people used to wake up with a Diet Coke or a   Diet Pepsi,” said Modi. ”At around 2 o’’clock, they’’d have another   and take a break. Walk in front of a Starbucks at 8 a. m. and 2   p. m. and tell me how long the lines are.” ’ ”   In 1995, Starbucks served its first Frappuccino   a     beverage that often has more calories than a can of Coke and that   has become a huge part of the coffee chain’s business. At the   time, the chain had 677 locations.   years later, the   chain has more than 22, 000 locations around the world. ” ’   With the rise of Starbucks, the coffee industry in general has   seen tremendous growth. In the last four years, coffee has gone   from a $7 billion annual industry (for the 52 weeks ending June   2, 2012) to a $9 billion business (for the 52 weeks ending May   28, 2016) according to Nielsen data. ’ ’  ’ ’   Meanwhile, soda sales in the US per capita have dropped . ’ ’   How has Starbucks succeeded while the biggest brands at     and Pepsi have fallen? ’ ’   According to Modi, the coffee chain has provided customers with   something that soda giants forgot   purpose. ’ ’   ”The beverage industry is not about health and wellness   it’’s   about functionality and purpose,” he said. ”Twenty years ago, the   function and purpose for Coke and Pepsi were much more wide than   they are today.” ’ ”   Modi says that consumers still love caffeine, bubbles, and sugar.   They just aren’t going to Coke and Pepsi to fulfill those needs   any more. ” ’  ’ ’   The most successful brands in the beverage industry in recent   years have been able to pinpoint a purpose, and provide a   solution, often related to health. ’ ”   In the past 15 years,     sales grew 76%   by volume. Sports drinks grew 20% while bottled,      tea grew a whopping 91%. In the last four years, standouts in the   soda industry have been Sprite, Wild Cherry Pepsi, Fanta, and   Mello Yello   brands that aren’t necessarily healthy, but that   avoid the negative PR associated with Pepsi and Coke.   ” ”   The success of these beverages, as well as Starbucks’ drinks,   such as the S’mores Frappuccino and the Pumpkin Spice Latte,   prove, in Modi’s opinion, that the issue isn’t sugar   it’s   marketing. ” ’  ’ ’   Modi says that recent soda advertising, prior to the current   Taste the Feeling campaign, cut consumers and their reasons for   drinking soda out of the equation, failing the consumer. ’ ’   Complicating matters is the consolidated effort of health and   nutrition groups in the fight against the soda industry. ’ ’   ”Soda follows tobacco’’s playbook to the letter,” Marion Nestle, a   professor of nutrition, food studies, and public health at New   York University, . ’ ’   Taxes and other government regulation, efforts to prevent   marketing to children, and education campaigns  to a much greater degree than   Starbucks, energy drinks, or even other types of soda. ’ ’   This negative PR, combined with what Modi considers     marketing, has helped drive consumers to different beverages to   fulfill their morning caffeination and   break needs. ’ ’  ’ ”   Starbucks is a company that is acutely aware of consumer   perceptions, carefully balancing its menu with both  and  to appease all customers. This,   combined with the company’s famously progressive attitude, has   helped the chain avoid much of the backlash associated with other   companies selling sweet drinks. ” ’   PepsiCo and   seem to be taking notes from the chain when   it comes to diversification of beverages. ’ ’   Coke announced in April that sales of noncarbonated ”still”   beverages, including water and Minute Maid, . Its   volume increased in the   double digits in the first quarter of 2016, as did other   healthier,    options, like sports drinks (7%) and   tea (2%). ’ ’   PepsiCo CEO Indra Nooyi said in April that less than 25% of the   . Instead, the company is   focusing on healthy snacks and noncarbonated beverages   a   process the company calls ” .” ’ ”   Starbucks has exploded in the last 20 years   and is showing no   sign of slowing. If PepsiCo and   want to compete,   they’re going to have to invest in beverages of their own that   fulfill customers’ needs, like bottled water, energy drinks, and   tea. ” ’Soda consumption is falling in the US, with the. ..’