’  ’ ’   As the CEO of Yum Brands from 1999 to 2015, David Novak turned a   PepsiCo spinoff into a global leader in the   industry   through the brands KFC, Taco Bell, and Pizza Hut. ’ ’   When he retired from his position as chairman of Yum in May, he   left behind a legacy of 41, 000 restaurants across 125 countries   and a market capitalization of about . ’ ’   Novak recently visited Business Insider in New York, where we   discussed his new book, ”” and the greatest lessons from his career. ’ ”   He explained that when he became COO of PepsiCo in 1994, he was   coming from a marketing background that may have been   distinguished, but he also needed to learn the company’s   operations from the ground up. ” ’   In one of his other books, the 2007 business memoir ”,” Novak wrote that this period   of adjustment taught him two fundamental lessons of adapting to a   new job that are just as relevant if you’’re a summer intern or a   CEO. ’ ”   When you take on a new role, whether within your organization or   at a new company, it can be tempting to want to immediately make   a splash with an ambitious project. Novak’s advice: Relax. Master   the basics of the job before you stretch yourself beyond your   limits. ” ’   ”I have been fortunate to the extent that I have always gone into   a new job in something of a turnaround situation,” he wrote,   explaining that his instinct was to immediately embark on an   exciting new campaign, but soon realized that he needed a grasp   on the fundamentals, ”like how to get the trucks out of the   warehouse and how to make sure there’’s enough product on the   trucks when they leave.” ’ ’   ”New marketing initiatives are sexy, but if you don’’t have the   nuts and bolts of an operation in place and the machinery humming   along, then you’’re not going to drive more sales and make any   money,” he wrote. ’ ’   Novak said that while transitioning from a strictly marketing   role to an operations role was difficult, he found all the   answers he needed within the company. ”Every company is filled   with experts,” he wrote   it’’s just a matter of acting without   hesitation when you need to know something that you can’’t figure   out on your own. ’ ’ ’ ”   For example, in his role as COO he learned about the company’s   history from a   veteran, the customers’ wants and needs   from the   team, and how to solve problems with   delivery trucks from the drivers themselves. ” ’   ”I always tell people that the best thing about being new is that   you have carte blanche to ask a ton of questions,” he wrote. ”(My   favorite is ’’What would you do if you had my job? ’’) The trick is   to be secure enough to keep asking questions after you’’ve been on   the job for a while, when some people might be thinking that you   should already know the answers.” ’ ’   And this applies to leaders, as well, he explained   perhaps even   more so. It’’s why his latest book, ”O Great One!” is solely   focused on the power of recognition. ’ ’   ”Asking questions is actually a great way to let people know that   they’’re needed and that you value what they have to say,” he   wrote in ”The Education of an Accidental CEO.” ’ ’   ”And I’’ve learned time and again: the most powerful way to   motivate someone is to listen to them.” ’ ’As the CEO of Yum Brands from 1999 to 2015. ..’