’  ’ ’   George Soros is clear: A vote to leave the EU would trigger a   collapse in the British pound worse than Black Wednesday. ’ ’   Writing in  the legendary macro trader said that   Britain currently risks subjecting itself to one of the worst     currency collapses in its history if it votes to leave   the European Union. ’ ’   ”It is reasonable to assume, given the expectations implied by   the market pricing at present, that after a Brexit vote the pound   would fall by at least 15% and possibly more than 20%,” Soros   writes. ’ ’   He continued (emphasis added): ’ ’’ ”   The 1992 incident Soros references, known in     history as  is the collapse in the value of the pound after   the British government pulled the currency from the European   Exchange Rate Mechanism   sort of the euro before the euro     because of the inability of the government to defend the pound’s   value against the Deutsche mark. ” ’   Soros was among the many traders who had placed massive bets that   the British pound would drop in value, as he believed that the   government would eventually be forced to pull out of the ERM. ’ ’   In other words: Soros knows this history. ’ ”   Soros’ three main points in Monday’s piece are that: ” ’   On Thursday, Britons will head to the polls to vote in the   referendum. Recent polling has shown the remain camp taking a   lead against the leave camp, with the  showing remain holding a     advantage over leave. ’ ’   Following polling out over the weekend showing the spread between   remain and leave narrowing, the pound rallied more than 2%   against the dollar on Monday, one of its biggest   gains   since the financial crisis. ’ ”   And so markets are beginning to see polls and feel better about   the prospects that we’ll wake up on Friday and things will be as   they were in the European Union. ” ”   But Soros’ warning is one that many in financial markets are   likely to take very seriously. ” ’      ’ ’George Soros is clear: A vote to leave the EU. ..’