’   The planes of the future may not rely on fossil fuels.  ’ ’  ’ ”   NASA  on Friday that it’s   developing a futuristic,   airplane for its     Series, called the  . ” ’   The   plane will have 14 electric motors and   feature a   plane wing, NASA said in a press   statement. The wing will be long and skinny with 12 motors   located on the leading edge (six on each wing) and one large   motor located on each wing tip.  ’ ’   The plane, which is also nicknamed ”Maxwell” after the 19th   century Scottish physicist James Clerk Maxwell who did work on   electromagnetism, is part of NASA’’s    New Aviation   Horizon initiative. The initiative aims to push the boundaries of   aviation by creating experimental aircraft that showcase advanced   technologies. ’ ’   NASA said in a press statement that it plans to introduce as many   as five additional   all of which will be larger     planes.  ’ ’  ’ ’   The goal of Maxwell and the larger   is to figure out ways   to reduce fuel use and noise so that these new technologies can   be introduced into the marketplace.  ’ ’   According to a     published Friday, the   could be ready to fly as soon as next   year. And  a   commercial passenger plane with a fully electric propulsion   system could be ready as soon as 2035.  ’ ’   Considering electric cars are just gaining momentum, that   timeline might sound a little far fetched. But the reality is   there are lots of companies working on the technology. ’ ’  ’ ’   The aircraft manufacturer Airbus and Siemens are collectively   dedicating 200 engineers to developing electric and hybrid   propulsion technologies, according to the . And Boeing   has also invested in developing similar technologies, according   to the article. ’ ”   What’s more, Tesla CEO  in October that   he has a design for an electric jet ready to go. ” ’   Andre Borschberg, one of the Swiss pilots currently traveling   around the world in a    told Tech Insider that   passenger jets could be here   in 25 years.  ’ ”   But given that Borschberg and his   Bertrand Piccard, are   already   of the way done with their around the world   voyage, perhaps we’ll see passenger jets powered by alternative   energy even sooner than that.   ” ’The planes of the future may not rely on fossil. ..’