’  ’ ’   The words ”slavery” and ”oil” when used together, are usually   reserved for use in the context of palm oil, but the offshore oil   and gas industry isn’’t immune to     evidenced   by the detention of a   offshore oil supply vessel in   Scotland, which was found to have a group of unpaid workers on   its crew. ’ ’   The Malaviya Seven offshore supply vessel (OSV) was detained in   Aberdeen, Scotland, earlier this week, with trade union   representatives calling it a ”blatant example of modern day   slavery”. ’ ’   Owned by   GOL Offshore, the vessel was chartered by   BP from 1 June to 15 June. Among its crew were 15 Indian workers   who had been unpaid for months. ’ ’   According to the General Secretary of the National Union of Rail,   Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) the incident ”exposes the   shameful practices in the exploitation of our natural resources”. ’ ’   These ”ships of shame” as  dubbed them, ”are a   blatant abuse of migrant workers [  …    ]” adding that such activities   also act as ”a catalyst for the dumping of UK seafarers, many   thousands of whom are now drawing benefits from the state”. ’ ’   The slave ship incident has now prompted another investigation   into a second vessel owned by the same company, the Malaviya   Twenty, which is at the British port of Great Yarmouth.   Meanwhile, the Malaviya Seven will remain locked down at the   Albert Quay  ’ ”   If you think slavery doesn’t exist   again.  (ILO) almost 21 million people are victims of   forced labor today. Of those, nearly 19 million are exploited by   private individuals or enterprises, compared to slightly over 2   million who are exploited by the state or rebel groups. ” ”   Overall, says the ILO, forced labor in the private economy   generates $150 billion in illegal profits every year. And while   domestic work, agriculture, construction, manufacturing and   entertainment are the key sectors of concern here, the oil   industry plays a role as   it’s a lot easier to get away   with it at sea. ” ’   Determining responsibility is tough, though. The  for instance, had been   chartered by a number of oil and gas companies, including     came out right away to confirm its June charter of the     well as Premier Oil, which declined to comment to   British reporters, and Dana Petroleum, which confirmed that it   had chartered the ship ”on the spot market” earlier this year. ’ ’  ’ ’   The oil price crisis has had a hand in what could become a   worsening situation, as supply boats find themselves in a   position in which they can only afford   …     well, slaves. ’ ’   The North   the Malaviya Seven was   a prime   example of how bad things have gotten. Charter rates for North   Sea supply boats had reached such a low by the fourth quarter of   last year that most vessels were said to be operating at a loss,   forced to lay off crew and conserve   best. ’ ”   It’s either sink, swim or do something illegal at this point, and   although some may disagree, sinking should not be an excuse for   slavery. Debt and default must simply be accepted. ” ’   As of the fourth quarter of last year, the number of British   seafarers on North Sea vessels had sunk so low as to be   negligible,  which quoted a   North Sea trade unionist as saying that those seafarers were   being replaced by Third World Laborers. ’ ’   The vessels, according to the trade union, can no longer pay     wages and instead opt for cheap labor, most commonly   from India, Indonesia and the Philippines. But paying these new   workers is also proving challenging, and the situation is now   metamorphosing into one resembling slavery. ’ ’   The alternative is tying up tonnage rather than operating at a   loss. ’ ’ a foreign crew of a Korean bulk   carrier in Mackay, Australia, was found to have been forced to   work without pay and denied access to food, among other basic   rights. One crew member suffered from malnutrition, while four   others left the ship, saying they feared for their lives.   According to International Transport Federation (ITF) assistant   national coordinator Matt Purcell, the   Cambodia and     been ”locked in hatches” and ”survived on what I can   only describe as a starvation diet”. ’ ’   ”The sea is a largely unregulated environment whereby greedy ship   owners and operators are allowed to get away with egregious   breaches of human rights [  …    ] ITF President Paddy Crumlin  ’ ’   The sea has always been   lurks in the deep waters   is both amazing and fearsome, but today what is floating on its   surface is increasingly sinister. Greed and a global oil price   crisis are combining to create a new wave of slavery for which   the chain of responsibility is long and complicated. A handful of   new vessel detentions could bring it out into the open to the   point at which the big companies who charter these vessels might   have to do a bit more due diligence. ’ ’The words “slavery” and. ..’