’  ’ ’   More than 50 State Department diplomats  recently that blasted US policy on   Syria, but a former ambassador to the country cautioned Monday   that there are no easy options left to end the civil war that has   dragged on for five years. ’ ’   The memo,  last week, called for   increased use of ”military force” to enforce a ceasefire between   the Syrian regime and the opposition, in the hopes that it would   lead to a political solution. ’ ’   But ramping up US military action in Syria could come with its   own set of problems. ’ ’   ”I just wouldn’’t go first to the US military,” Robert Ford, a   senior fellow at the Middle East Institute who was the US   ambassador to Syria from 2011 to 2014, told Business Insider.   ”I’’d like to see if we can’’t get the Syrians themselves to put   the pressure on the Assad government.” ’ ’   The Syrian civil war started in 2011 as an uprising against   President Bashar  . Since then, extremist groups like ISIS   and Al Qaeda affiliate Jabhat   have taken control of   large swaths of the country. ’ ’   The US has been aiding rebels who are fighting ISIS and Al Qaeda,   but so far the Obama administration has been more reluctant to   militarily challenge Assad directly. ’ ’   The dissent memo stated that ”initiating targeted military   strikes in response to egregious regime violations” of the   ceasefire ”would raise the cost for the regime and bolster the   prospects for a real ceasefire.” ’ ’   But it could also escalate tensions between the US and Russia,   which is intervening in the Syrian civil war to support the Assad   regime. ’ ’   ”If we start undertaking US military actions against the Syrian   government, the Russians will   and it spirals   up,” Ford said. ”That sometimes can be hard to control. So   military action is not my first choice.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The memo addresses this somewhat. ’ ’   ”We are not advocating for a slippery slope that ends in a   military confrontation with Russia,” the memo stated. ”Rather, we   are calling for the credible threat of targeted US military   responses to regime violations to preserve the [ceasefire] and   the political track, which we worked so hard to build.” ’ ’   President Barack Obama famously backed away from his ”red line”   in Syria in 2012 when he declined to strike the Assad regime   despite evidence that the regime had used chemical weapons   against civilians. Obama had previously said Assad using chemical   weapons would provoke a response from the US military, but he   ultimately allowed the regime to cut a deal brokered by Russia to   avoid US airstrikes. ’ ”   But Assad’s atrocities against civilians continued. ” ”   Assad’s brutality has led some to question whether he’d be   willing to negotiate with the opposition he’s spent years trying   to crush. ” ”   Ford still thinks it’s a preferable alternative to more military   intervention. ” ’   ”Some very good analysts   …     have told me that I’’m nuts thinking   Bashar   will ever negotiate,” Ford said. ”And they may be   right. It is a tough, tough, regime.” ’ ’   He also warned that getting too deeply involved in Syria   militarily could lead to another Iraq. ’ ’   ”I spent so long in Iraq trying to get the US military out of   Iraq and to turn the problems in Iraqi over to Iraqis,” Ford   said. ”I don’’t want to see the US military substituting for   actions that should be undertaken by Syrians.” ’ ’   Ultimately, the US is short on good options. ’ ’   ”There is no quick fix,” Ford said. ”There is no surefire   solution. Everything we think about doing going forward has   potential downsides. And we just have to live with that. There’’s   no     way forward in Syria.” ’ ’More than 50 State Department diplomats signed. ..’