’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The court heard the challenge to Obama’s signature     actions back in   . ” ’   A   vote leaves in place the decision of the lower court in the   case, United States v. Texas. That decision blocked the   implementation of the actions.  ’ ”   The ruling is a huge blow for the Obama administration, and it   raises the stakes for November’s election, as it hands off the   issue to the next president. Presumptive Republican presidential   nominee Donald Trump has vowed to revoke Obama’s actions, while   presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton has said she would   expand upon those actions. ” ’   ”For ’ ’’ ”   The ninth seat on the court is vacant after the death of Justice   Antonin Scalia. Obama has nominated Judge Merrick Garland to fill   Scalia’s seat, but Republicans have refused to hold hearings on   his nomination and said the next president should fill the   vacancy. A ninth justice could swing the balance if the issue is   revisited. ” ’   House Speaker Paul Ryan  after the decision was announced. The   Wisconsin Republican said the decision ”vindicated” Article 1 of   the Constitution. ’ ’   ”The Supreme Court’’s ruling makes the president’’s executive   action on immigration null and void,” he said in the statement.   ”The Constitution is clear: The president is not permitted to   write laws   only Congress is. This is another major victory in   our fight to restore the separation of powers.” ’ ’   Clinton, calling the result ”unacceptable,” said the ruling shows   ”us all just how high the stakes are in this election.” ’ ’   ”This decision reminds us how much damage Senate Republicans are   doing by refusing to consider President Obama’’s nominee to fill   the vacancy on the Supreme Court,” she said. ”Our families and   our country need and deserve a full bench, and Senate Republicans   need to stop playing political games with our democracy and give   Judge Merrick Garland a fair hearing and vote.” ’ ’   The former secretary of state said the ruling is a ”stark   reminder of the harm Donald Trump would do to our families, our   communities, and our country.” ’ ’   ”Trump has pledged to repeal President Obama’’s executive actions   on his first day in office,” she said. ”He has called Mexican   immigrants ’’rapists’’ and ’’murderers. ’’ He has called for creating   a deportation force” to tear 11 million people away from their   families and their homes.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Soon after, lawyers representing Texas and 25 other     states filed a suit in federal court in   Brownsville, Texas. Those states claimed that the costs of   issuing state identification cards to the immigrants would be a   heavy burden. A US district judge sided with the states, saying   they had the standing to sue the federal government. That   decision was upheld in the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth   Circuit last year. ’ ’   During the challenge, conservative Justice Anthony Kennedy and   Chief Justice John Roberts, one of whose votes the Obama   administration would have needed to prevail in the case, ”sharply   questioned” the administration’’s attorney, . ’ ’   ”Kennedy said Congress, not the president, had the authority to   decide which groups of immigrants could stay lawfully in the   United States,” the paper reported. ’ ’  ’ ”   Kennedy, a typical swing vote on the high court, seemed to side   with the states’ argument, . ” ’   ”It seems to me that’’s a legislative, not an executive task,” he   said. ”It’’s as if the president is setting the policy and the   Congress is executing it . .. That seems upside down.” ’ ’   In April, the court appeared ”deadlocked” in the case. ’ ’The Supreme Court was evenly divided in a case. ..’