’  ’ ’   Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy has emerged as the unlikely   hero of affirmative action,  to   uphold the use of race in college admissions decisions. ’ ’   This is a first for Kennedy, who before this most recent case,    had never voted to uphold an     program. ’ ”   The dispute centers on Abigail Fisher, a white woman now in her     who sued the University of Texas at Austin in 2008 after   she was denied admission to the state’s flagship public   university. ” ’   She  because of her race and   that UT Austin accepted nonwhite students with worse grades and   fewer extracurricular activities. ’ ’   ”Privileging one characteristic above all others does not lead to   a diverse student body,”  expressing support of holistic   admissions decisions. ”Indeed, to compel universities to admit   students based on class rank alone is in deep tension with the   goal of educational diversity as this Court’’s cases have defined   it.” ’ ’’ ”   The Supreme Court first heard Fisher’s case in 2013 before ruling   to send it down to a lower court to be reevaluated. It’s likely   that  on   Kennedy’s skepticism to strike down affirmative action for good   when they voted to rehear Fisher’s case last year. ” ’   Legal journalist Joan Biskupic’’s 2014 book on Justice Sonia   Sotomayor   ”Breaking In: The Rise of Sonia Sotomayor and the   Politics of Justice”   revealed that the 2013 decision was   actually a compromise and that the court was ready to rule   against the University of Texas. In a  Supreme Court   reporter Linda Greenhouse highlighted Biskupic’’s book in terms of   what it might mean if justices again took up Fisher v. University   of Texas. ’ ’   ”In the University of Texas case, it initially looked like a     lineup,” . ”The five conservatives, including Justice   Kennedy, wanted to rule against the Texas policy and limit the   ability of other universities to use the kinds of admissions   programs [upheld in earlier cases]. The three liberals were ready   to dissent.” ’ ’   Noting that the Supreme Court needs four votes to decide to hear   a case, Greenhouse wrote, the conservative justices most likely   ”persuaded themselves that Justice Kennedy will hold firm rather   than seek another   compromise   and that the   ensuing heat would be an institutional price worth paying.” ’ ’   It seems they were wrong. ’ ’Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy has. ..’