’  ’ ”   If drug addiction is a disease like cancer or Alzheimer’s, how do   you explain the seemingly amoral behavior   the lying, cheating,   and hiding   that has come to be linked with so many addicts? ” ’   The answer has less to do with morality and much more to do with   physical changes in the brains of those who become addicted, as    director Dr. Nora Volkow perfectly explains in a recent    on addiction. ’ ’   It makes a lot of sense   especially when explained with   chocolate. ’ ”   Volkow is a chocolate lover, you see. She has a special weakness   for dark varieties. Most of the time, she can control her   cravings. But occasionally   usually when she’s frustrated or   tired or bored   she gives in. Then she’ll overdo it, eating too   much of the stuff. ” ’   Sound familiar? ’ ”   If so, that’s because it’s a fairly common type of experience.   Most of us can abstain some of the time and give in occasionally,   but more often than not, most of us easily follow the rule of   moderation. But in people who are vulnerable to addiction (via a   mesh of factors including genetics, environment, behavior, and   exposure) this is  Volkow explains. And   it’s at this point where the   notion that addiction is   merely a problem of a lack of   begins to crumble. ” ’   ”When you transition from that stage where most of the time you   are able to   the desires and control and manage your   behavior even though you want to do it, you say it’’s not a good   idea   when you lose that capacity consistently, that’’s when you   start to get into the transition of addiction,” she says. ’ ’  ’ ”   But, as she continues to explain, the problem is . It’s also influenced by physical   changes that happen in the brain   changes that produce  between the brains of people who are addicted and   those who are not. ” ’   One of those differences, Volkow says, is a dysfunction in areas   of the frontal cortex, a part of the brain that plays a key role   in helping us analyze situations and make decisions. ”But if   these areas of the brain are not functioning properly, which is   what repeated drug use [can do] to your brain, it [can erode] the   capacity of frontal cortical areas.” ’ ’   When that happens, your ability to say no to that chocolate bar   gets diminished, or in Volkow’’s words, ”your ability to make   optimal decisions gets dysfunctional.” ’ ”   Volkow’s ideas are bolstered by decades of    including a  that she coauthored for the journal Nature.   The authors of a  built upon similar research, concluding that addiction   is a learned behavior linked with fundamental changes to the   brains of addicts. ” ”   For this reason, it’s not as simple as just choosing to use drugs     or, in Volkow’s example, overdo it on the chocolate. And the   more we know about the neurological basis of addiction, the   better we will be able to treat it. ” ’If drug addiction is a disease like cancer or. ..’