’  ’ ”   The  Caesar Goodson in   Freddie Gray’s death on Thursday has spurred new doubts that the   remaining four officers facing trial in the case will be   convicted. ” ”   Some, including the president of  are now urging Baltimore state’s   attorney Marilyn Mosby to drop the charges against the officers   whose trials are still scheduled throughout the summer and fall,   the Baltimore Sun reported. ” ”   Since Goodson faced the most serious accusations of all six   officers originally charged, experts say Thursday’s acquittal   means it’s unlikely that any of the other officers involved in   the case will be found guilty of their lesser charges. ” ’   Goodson, who was charged with       murder, had driven the police van in which Gray is believed to   have suffered a spinal injury that resulted in his death. ’ ’   ”This was the only case she possibly could have won,” Peter   Moskos, an associate professor at John Jay College of Criminal   Justice and former Baltimore police officer, told Business   Insider. ’ ’   ”[Goodson] was the most culpable because Freddie Gray was his   prisoner. The other cases are weaker, and the prosecution’’s never   shown that a crime has happened.” ’ ’   After an   bench trial that concluded Monday, Judge Barry   Williams cleared Goodson of all charges, including manslaughter,     assault, reckless endangerment, and misconduct in   office. ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s now fully within Mosby’s purview to drop or proceed with the   charges against the remaining officers, according to former   Maryland prosecutor Rene Sandler. ” ’   Mosby has an ”absolute obligation” to carefully review each case   to decide whether they should proceed, Sandler told Business   Insider. ’ ’   ”My view of this case from the beginning was that the prosecutor   rushed to judgment, that the prosecutor overcharged, and that the   prosecutor didn’’t take the time to fully and completely   investigate this case before charging,” she said. ’ ’   ”Had the prosecutor slowed it down and done her due diligence in   this case, that could have made a huge difference in terms of the   outcome of this case.” ’ ’The acquittal of Baltimore police officer. ..’