’  ’ ’   The US Supreme Court  at the University of   Texas Austin (UT) on Thursday, further validating the use of race   in admissions policies around the country. ’ ’   That decision ”makes it less likely that [other] affirmative   action policies will be struck down by the courts,” ’’s policy,   ’ ’   ”T  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’”The court has reaffirmed the at said diversity is a   compelling governmental interest, and seemingly lowered the bar   for universities seeking to justify   affirmative   action,” Winkler explained. ’ ’   With  in 2003, the Supreme Court previously affirmed use   of race in admissions, as long as it was used to achieve   diversity and was only a partial determinant in the admissions   process. That practice has become known as ”holistic” review. ’ ”   In addition to Grutter, the court’s recent ruling in regard to   Texas has made it easier for schools to argue their admission’s   policies are constitutional, according to Winkler. ” ’   The Fisher case considered if UT effectively demonstrated that it   needed to use its ”holistic” review process to achieve acceptable   levels of diversity, as required under a legal standard known as   ”strict scrutiny.” The ruling by the majority, that it had in   fact shown enough evidence, lowers the bar for colleges in the   future arguing the same. ’ ’  ’ ”   Abigail Fisher, a white woman denied admission to Texas’ flagship   public university in 2008, claimed her race played a factor in   her rejection. ” ’   She argued that the university denied her admission in favor of     black and Hispanic students, and that her   constitutional right to equal protection was violated. ’ ”   The court ruled   in the university’s favor. ” ”   While both the majority opinion and dissent in the Fisher case go   to great lengths to specify the ruling pertains to just UT’s   admission’s policy, Winkler said the ruling provides cover to   lower courts to come to similar rulings. ” ’   ”Although the court in this case we are only talking about this   one policy, it still sends a huge signal to other courts and   other judges that these plans are not problematic from the   Supreme Court’’s point of view; that they can withstand scrutiny,”   he explained. ’ ’The US Supreme Court ruled in favor of. ..’