’  ’ ’   In a surprising   decision Thursday, the  in   admissions at the University of Texas at Austin (UT). ’ ’   Issuing an onservative Justice   Anthony Kennedy  of the liberal   policy. ’ ’     Justice Samuel Alito, however, railed   against UT in a dissent more than twice as long as the majority   opinion. ’ ’   In his mind, the university failed, for multiple reasons, to   effectively demonstrate that its admission policy needs a racial   element and that the one it adopted does, in fact, foster   diversity. Even more, by employing affirmative action without   these measures, UT engages in racial discrimination, especially   against   according to Alito.  ’ ’   Prior to 2003, UT employed the Top 10% Plan, an admissions policy   that automatically grants acceptance to students within the top   10% of their graduating class into any public university in the   state. That year, the Supreme Court issued a major ruling  in    which affirmed the partial use of race in college   admissions, often referred to as ”holistic” review. ’ ’   UT, along with other universities around the country, quickly   adopted similar plans. Today, UT still adheres to the Top 10%   plan but fills the remainder of slots   around 25%   using   numerous academic and personal factors, including race.   ’ ’   That brings us to the current case. In 2008,  a white student not   ranked within the top 10% of her class. She sued the university,   claiming it accepted other, less qualified black and Hispanic   students instead, thus discriminating against her and violating   her right to equal protection under the law. ’ ’  ’ ’   In its 2013,   decision to remand Fisher’’s case back to a lower   court, the Supreme Court further defined how UT could meet   ”strict scrutiny,” a legal standard to determine   constitutionality. In this case, it mandated UT must have a   ”narrowly tailored” admissions policy that serves a compelling   interest. ’ ’   ”Something strange has happened since our prior decision in this   case,” Alito began his lengthy opinion. ’ ’   ”What the majority has now done   awarding a victory to UT in an   opinion that fails to address the most important issues in the   case   is simply wrong,” he later added.  ’ ’   In his   dissent, Alito argued that UT doesn’’t demonstrate   the needs for its   admissions policy, nor that its use   ameliorates a lack of racial diversity. Thus, the school can’’t   satisfy ”strict scrutiny” or ”narrowly tailor” its policy, as   required.  ’ ’   First, UT hasn’’t demonstrated it couldn’’t achieve sufficient   racial diversity by relying solely on the Top 10% Plan, according   to Alito. UT has argued that the   portion of its   admissions policy allows acceptance of ”the   or   Hispanic child of successful professionals in Dallas”   wealthy,     minorities, in other words   as the university   has argued. ’ ”   Focusing solely on the top 10% of students instead grants   admission to the   minority students at majorly   black and Hispanic schools, who wouldn’t have achieved the same   grades if forced to compete against white and     students and wouldn’t add as much to the school. ” ’   That reasoning ”turns affirmative action on its head,” Alito   argued. ”  programs were created to help   disadvantaged students.”  ’ ’   In addition to failing to demonstrate the need for its current   admissions strategy, UT never addressed whether its policies   actually foster racial diversity, Alito argued. Instead, UT   claimed it needs to achieve a ”critical mass” of black and   Hispanic students, but the school didn’’t define that in ”anything   other than the vaguest terms,” Alito wrote. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Instead, UT prefers a deliberately malleable ’’we’’ll know it when   we see it’’ notion of critical mass,” he continued, invoking the   1964 Supreme Court’’s infamous  of pornography.  ’ ’   In fact, UT claims it doesn’’t keep records about how or how many   students are affected by the consideration of race in the   school’’s admissions, although Alito argued the school had ”every   reason” to do so. ’ ’   The conservative justice went on to cite a slew of previous legal   opinions   including one from Kennedy, the author of the majority   opinion   that argue equal protection must be   lest   the application of   policies affirm dangerous   stereotypes about the very minorities the clause intends to   protect. ’ ’   In Alito’’s mind, that’’s precisely why the ”strict scrutiny”   standard matters.  ’ ’   On top of failing to meet strict scrutiny, Alito argued, the   university discriminates against  . UT repeatedly   expressed the desire to attract and enroll more black and   Hispanic students but ignored  . Although based on   the state’’s population,   ”overrepresented” the   student body, one study cited by UT found that more classrooms   lacked   than Hispanic students. ’ ’   The university also ”lumped” together Vietnamese, Cambodian,   Hmong, and Indian students, among others, to make up the   ” ” label, according to Alito.  ’ ”   While Alito’s analysis of UT’s policies directly contrasts that   of the majority, he also took aim at the other justices for   insinuating the case has gone on too long for Fisher to see any   reasonable reparations.  ” ’   ”The majority cannot side with UT simply because it is tired of   this case,” Alito concluded.  ’ ’In a surprising   decision Thursday, the. ..’