’  ’ ”   Political observers aren’t dancing around it   Brexit, many of   them say, is a huge win for Donald Trump. ” ’   From veteran Republican pollster Frank Luntz and conservative   provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos to Council on Foreign Relations   President Richard Haas and former British Prime Minister Tony   Blair, the acknowledgement is there: The forces behind Brexit are   the forces behind Trump. ’ ’   And Brexit just won at the polls. ’ ’”But this is even more significant,   because Britain has never been the source of populist uprisings   like this. If Britain can vote itself out of Europe, America can   vote itself in for Trump. ”’ ’   Blair said the movement that pushed through the British   referendum to leave the EU was ”a strange coming together of   populism from the left and right.” ’ ’   Exactly what Trump needs to win in the fall. ’ ’   The presumptive Republican nominee himself wasted no time   spinning the shock results at the polls into a big win for his   candidacy. ’ ’   ”People want to take their country back,” Trump said during a   Friday press conference at what turned out to be an extremely     trip to his Scottish golf course. ”They want to have   independence in a sense. And you see it with Europe, all over   Europe. You’’re going to have more than just . .. what happened   last night.” ’ ’   Later Friday on Twitter, he echoed sentiment about how Brexit was   caused by forces similar to the ones that are bolstering his   candidacy in the states.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Haas called the unprecedented decision a ”warning” to presumptive   Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton  adding that   Brexit shows ”the potential breadth and depth of disaffection   against Washington.”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   During a Friday conference call of their own, Clinton’s team kept   hammering home a counterpoint to the perceived momentum Brexit   has for Trump   the US and UK are different. ” ’  ’ ’   ”Hillary Clinton is focused on not what’’s happening in the United   Kingdom, but rather, what is happening in the United States, what   are the uniquely American challenges we are facing and what are   the uniquely American solutions that we can bring to address   those problems and help working families get ahead.” ’ ’   Sullivan would later say it’’s important to acknowledge that the   election this fall ”is about what’’s happening in America and not   what’’s happening in Yorkshire” and that Americans ”are    ” and ”have common sense.” ’ ”   Clinton’s communications director, Jennifer Palmieri, outlined a   number of ways the two countries are different as well. ” ’   When told about the argument that the Brexit vote isn’’t   indicative of any tide turning in Trump’’s favor, conservative   provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos called it a ”dumb” and ”totally   bogus and pretty panicky line to take after the fact.” He would   add that the two countries are very much alike. ’ ’   The Breitbart editor, who voted Leave, called the Brexit vote   ”fabulous for Trump” and the ”biggest single sign Trump will win   in the fall.” ’ ’   ”The media is completely and totally on one side of the   argument,” he said. ”Americans have been emboldened by the Brexit   vote to think they might actually get what they vote for. And it   doesn’’t matter if there . .. it doesn’’t matter if these   unaccountable remote losers . .. are calling them names and that   they’’re crazy for doing this. They’’re going to do it anyway, and   they might just get the president they want. I think it’’s going   to embolden people to take more risks at the ballot box, and   that’’s good.” ’ ”   The potential economic collapse won’t matter to any of these   voters, he said. ” ’   Already, the pound has collapsed and  in the aftermath of the Brexit vote. ’ ’   ”Everyone was told this [collapse] was going to happen, and it   did happen, and the people who voted for leave were still   celebrating anyway when the pound was plummeting because they   don’’t care,”  said. ”They’’re not   interested in the global economy. They want to protect their   civilization.” ’ ’   ”Don’’t underestimate the frustration of voters upon immigration   and trade, Mr. Trump’’s two big issues,” he continued. ”Brexit   just won on the two things Trump complains about all the time.   What do you think this is going to do to his campaign? Of course   it’’s going to be great.” ’ ’  ’ ”   But like Clinton’s team, not everyone is taking Brexit as a major   moment in Trump’s candidacy   or a sign of the impending Trump   presidency ” ’   Ian Bremmer, president of the Eurasia Group, echoed that   sentiment, telling Business Insider that although both the Brexit   vote and the US presidential election are all about domestic   factors   those who fear a Trump presidency need not have any   additional anxiety because of the British decision. ’ ”   The move to leave the EU, he added, will lead to a weakening of   Europe and likely the disintegration of the supranational   governing body. But it won’t happen fast enough for any major   impact on the November vote. ” ”   And, he said, it won’t have any pull on the voters Trump still   needs to swing in his direction. ” ’   ”This is really not something that will move likely voters that   are swing between Trump and Hillary [Clinton],” he said. ’ ’   Elaine Kamarck, a Harvard professor and former adviser to Vice   President Al Gore, told Business Insider that although Americans   are ”right to worry” about how the Brexit vote will bolster   Trump’’s candidacy and that   sentiment will be   ”driving” both votes, there’’s a major difference between both   electorates. ’ ’   ”Our immigrants get integrated pretty quickly and vote,” she   said, later adding, ”We have a lot of recent immigrants in   American who can vote and are mobilized to vote. Look at his   number with Hispanics.” ’ ’   She expressed surprise, though, at how great the rallying cry is   behind   sentiment in the US. ’ ’   ”Clearly a piece of the American electorate is very worried about   this,” she said. ”But let’’s face it, Europe is in a totally   different situation than us because of the situation in the   Middle East. There’’s a fear of being overrun.”  ’ ”Political observers aren’t dancing around. ..”