’  ’ ’   The US has been leaning heavily on militias in its fight against   ISIS in Iraq and Syria, and while these forces have proved very   effective on the ground, some have been accused of committing   atrocities akin to their enemies. ’ ’   A  details allegations of torture   and abuse at the hands of Shia militias in Iraq, which have been   instrumental in aiding Iraqi Security Forces in seizing territory   back from ISIS (also known as the Islamic State, ISIL, or Daesh). ’ ’   The organization has ”received credible allegations of summary   executions, beatings of unarmed men, enforced disappearances, and   mutilation of corpses by government forces” that have been   fighting on the outskirts of Fallujah to retake the city from   ISIS, according to the report. ’ ’   Here are some of the allegations from the report: ’ ’   The abuse allegations, which have become widespread in Iraq, are   deepening the very sectarian tensions that facilitated the rise   of ISIS in the first place. ISIS is a Sunni terror group that   markets itself as a protector of Sunni civilians who have become   targets of Shia militias, which have the support of the     Iraqi government. ’ ’   Iran, a Shia theocracy and ally of Iraq, also backs these   militias as it attempts to extend its influence in the Middle   East. ’ ’   As the Human Rights Watch report makes clear, civilians often end   up caught in the middle of this sectarian power struggle. ’ ”   The Iraqi government, wanting to keep Iran happy, hasn’t done   much to rein in these militias. As a result, they often go   unchecked, using their power to suppress Sunnis. ” ’   ”It’’s a concerted effort [on behalf of the Shia militias] to   punish the Sunni population for, in their minds, accepting ISIS   or allowing ISIS,” Michael Pregent, an adjunct fellow at the   Hudson Institute and former US Army intelligence officer in Iraq,   told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”But in reality [Sunnis] had nowhere to go. They couldn’’t call   the police. They couldn’’t call the army.” ’ ’  ’ ”   And it doesn’t help that Fallujah has historically been a   stronghold for extremists in Iraq. ” ’   Phillip Smyth, a researcher at the University of Maryland who is   a leading expert on Shia militias, told Business Insider that   people in Fallujah ”gave Americans problems” during the Iraq War,   and ”gave the Iraqi government problems,” so the militias’’   solution to routing the extremists ”is to just smash” everything. ’ ’   The Human Rights Watch report notes a video posted online that   shows a Shia commander telling a room full of fighters that   ”Fallujah had been a bastion of terrorism since 2004 and that no   civilians or true Muslims were left inside the city.” ’ ”   Treating all civilians in Fallujah as ISIS sympathizers plays   right into ISIS’ hand. If civilians are targeted by the militias   that are supposedly liberating them from terrorist control, they   become even more likely to turn against the Iraqi government. ” ’   ”If the US continues to support Iraqi units that integrate Shia   militias into their operations, they’’re simply resetting the   conditions that led to ISIS to begin with,” Pregent said. ”You’’re   further entrenching Sunni distrust of their government   …     and the   United States.” ’ ’   These Shia militias are no friend to the US, either. ’ ’   ”These are not allies,” Pregent said. ”Everybody keeps thinking   that these militias are working on a friendly basis with the US.   They still hate us as much as they hate ISIS.” ’ ”   Still, there aren’t many good alternatives, and it might be too   late for the Iraqi government to rein in the militias without   facing blowback from Iran. ” ’   ”There’’s very, very little that can really be done in order to   turn this ship and make this all go away,” Smyth said. ”The genie   has now been let out of the bottle, so how do you react to that?” ’ ’  ’ ’   Militias are now deeply entrenched in Iraq. ’ ’   ”These groups are extremely powerful,” Smyth said. ”They have   sometimes tens of thousands of members, they’’re actively deployed   in multiple battlefronts. And beyond that they have very strong   backers, particularly Iran.” ’ ”   On top of that, the Iraqi Army  as a fighting force that they can’t   effectively take on ISIS without the help of these militias. ” ’   ”When you really look at it from a government point of view, they   are not on the strong end of this,” Smyth said. ”They also have   to deal with these forces because they’’re the ones taking the   battle to the Islamic State.” ’ ”   Despite the evidence of Shia militia abuses, they’re unlikely to   face much punishment. There’s too much support for the militias   in the   Iraqi government   these organizations have   fully integrated themselves not just on the battlefield, but in   Iraqi politics as well. ” ’   ”I don’’t think anything is going to come of it because if [Iraqi   Prime Minister Haider]   opposes the militias, he’’s likely   to be deposed.   …     He has to accept their role in these   operations,” Pregent said. ’ ’   ”He could come back and say ’’a couple of guys were punished,’’ but   we don’’t ever really see these groups punished.” ’ ”   And it’s not just the militias   Shiites from these organizations   have also permeated the Iraqi Security Forces and federal police,   Smyth said. ” ’   ”You’’re not going to get much done,” Smyth said. ”They are   integrated into the system.” ’ ’The US has been leaning heavily on militias in. ..’