’  ’ ”   SEATTLE (Reuters)   The financial and political fallout from   Britain’s vote to leave the European Union has added to a string   of setbacks for President Barack Obama as he works to burnish his   legacy before his presidency ends in January 2017. ” ”   The Brexit decision came after a deadlock in the U. S. Supreme   Court on Thursday effectively ended Obama’s push to overhaul   immigration rules, and the week after the worst mass shooting in   modern U. S. history. ” ”   For Obama, the reversals heighten pressure on him and fellow   Democrats to work harder for the Nov. 8 elections   particularly   for the party’s presumptive presidential nominee, Hillary   Clinton, who represents his best shot at making sure more of his   policies are not rolled back. ” ’   Speaking at two fundraising events in Seattle on Friday night, at   the end of an arduous day that saw global markets plunge after   the Brexit vote, Obama acknowledged the shifting political winds   four months from the vote. ’ ’   ”If you didn’’t think the stakes were high before, you should   think the stakes are pretty high right now,” Obama said at an   intimate fundraising dinner at the home of tech executive Steve   Singh. Guests, arranged in two long tables, paid $10, 000 to   $66, 800 per couple. ’ ’   Obama has argued technology and globalization can increase   opportunities for all, but conceded that recent events show many   people are frightened by global competition and feel left behind. ’ ’   Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee and   political novice, has tapped into those concerns about the   economy, trade and immigration   fears that also figured into the   UK campaign to leave the EU. ’ ’   ”Unfortunately, when people are anxious and scared, there are   going to be politicians out there who try to prey on that   frustration to get themselves headlines and to get themselves   votes,” Obama told about 3, 000 people who paid $250 and up to   attend a   event on Friday for Washington State’’s   Democratic Governor Jay Inslee. ’ ’   Clinton regained a   lead over Trump this week,   according to a   poll released on Friday that showed   46. 6 percent of likely American voters supported Clinton while   33. 3 percent backed Trump. ’ ’  ’ ’   In April, Obama had taken the unusual step of traveling to London   to help the ”Remain” camp of the referendum for his friend and   ally, Prime Minister David Cameron, who will now leave office   before Obama does. ’ ’   The financial uncertainty from Brexit threatens to weigh on the   strong U. S. economy and undo some of the recovery seen since   Obama took office in early 2009 at the height of the financial   crisis. ’ ”   Earlier this week, Obama’s plan to remove the specter of   deportation for millions of undocumented immigrants was quashed   when the Supreme Court deadlocked over lifting a hold on the   action. ” ”   And two weeks ago, the nation’s worst mass shooting in modern   history, at a gay nightclub in Orlando, raised questions about   how Obama is dealing with   extremism   and served as a   reminder of his failure to convince the U. S. Congress to tighten   gun laws. ” ’   The setbacks show the limits of action that any president can   take unilaterally, said Justin Vaughn, a political scientist at   Boise State University. ’ ’   ”I don’’t think Obama’’s legacy has taken a hit so much as it came   back to earth,” Vaughn said. ’ ”   Still, the impression that his administration is unable to   control its own political destiny could weigh on how history   views Obama’s time at the White House, said Brandon Rottinghaus,   a political scientist at University of Houston. ” ’   ”Presidents are often judged by what happens in the ninth inning,   so President Obama’’s last few months in office are important to   cementing and enhancing his legacy,” Rottinghaus said. ’ ’ ’ ’SEATTLE (Reuters)   The financial and political. ..’