’  ’ ’   I said goodnight to a gloomy party of   Londoners a   few minutes after midnight. The paper ballots were still being   counted by hand. Only the British overseas territory of Gibraltar   had reported final results. ’ ”   Yet the assumption of a Remain victory filled the     depressed my hosts. One important journalist had received a   detailed briefing earlier that evening of the results of the   government’s exit polling: 57 percent for Remain. ” ’   The polling industry will be one victim of the Brexit vote. A few   days before the vote, I met with a pollster who had departed from   the cheap and dirty methods of his peers to perform a much more   costly survey for a major financial firm. His results showed a   comfortable margin for Remain. Ten days later, anyone who heeded   his expensive advice suffered the biggest percentage losses since   the 2008 financial crisis. ’ ’   But there will be other casualties too, of course. Prime Minister   David Cameron has resigned. It seems improbable that Jeremy   Corbyn, the hapless old radical who bumbled into the leadership   of the Labour Party, can long outlast him. In the opening hour of   trading on Friday morning, 120 billion pounds of stock market   value . ’ ”   EU nationals working in the United Kingdom must wonder how long   they can stay, and so must British retirees now enjoying the sun   of Spain, Italy, and southern France. Will London’s overheated   property market come off the boil? What’s the future of the vast   industry that finances and insures the commerce of the European   continent? ” ’   For Americans, there are other questions. The U. S. government has   long favored    both because the U. K.  single   market speeds U. S. business on the continent, and because U. S.   policymakers have long worried about the statism and     likely to prevail in an EU from which Britain is   absent. ’ ’   ”I think Europe is strengthened by Britain’’s participation. I   think our overall Western world economic strength is likewise   improved and strengthened by Britain’’s participation.” So    President Gerald Ford on the eve of the 1975   British referendum on entry into the EU, and his words could have   been repeated by any or all of his successors. ’ ”   But here’s a domestic question for American leaders and thinkers. ” ’  ’ ”   The force that turned Britain away from the European Union was   the greatest mass migration since perhaps the     invasion. 630, 000 foreign nationals  in the single year 2015.   Britain’s population has grown from 57 million in 1990 to 65   million in 2015, despite a native birth rate that’s now . On Britain’s present course,   the population would top 70 million within another decade,    of   that growth  . ” ’   British population growth is not generally perceived to benefit     people. Migration stresses schools, hospitals, and   above all, housing. The median house price in London  12 times the median local   salary. Rich migrants outbid British buyers for the best   properties; poor migrants are willing to crowd more densely into   a dwelling than   people are accustomed to tolerating. ’ ”   This migration has been driven both by British membership in the   European Union and by Britain’s own policy: The flow of   immigration to the U. K. is almost exactly evenly divided between   EU and   immigration. ” ’   And more is to come, from both sources: Much of the huge surge of   Middle Eastern and North African migrants to continental Europe   since 2013 seems certain to arrive in Britain; as Prime Minister   David Cameron  Britain has created more jobs   since 2010 than all the rest of the EU combined. ’ ’   The June 23 vote represents a huge popular rebellion against a   future in which British people feel increasingly crowded     even crowded out   own country: More than   200, 000   people  every year for brighter futures   abroad, in Australia above all, the United States in second   place. ’ ’   Now the American question: ’ ”   By uncanny coincidence, EU referendum day in the U. K. coincided   with the U. S. Supreme Court decision that halts President Obama’s   program of executive amnesty for young illegal immigrants and   their parents, an estimated 5 million people. ” ’   American   their U. K. and EU     taken for granted that an open global economy implies (and even   requires) the mass migration of people. Yet this same mass   migration is generating populist, nativist reactions that   threaten that same open economy: The   vote in the U. K.   the Donald Trump campaign for president in the United States. ’ ”   Is it possible that leaders and elites had it all wrong? If   they’re to save the open global economy, maybe they need to   protect their populations better against globalization’s most   unwelcome   which mass migration is the very least   welcome of them all? ” ’  ’ ’   If any one person drove the United Kingdom out of the European   Union, it was Angela Merkel, and her impulsive solo decision in   the summer of 2015 to throw open   then all     1. 1 million Middle Eastern and North African migrants, with   uncountable millions more to come. ’ ”   Merkel’s catastrophically negative example is one that perhaps   should be avoided by U. S. politicians who seek to avert     populism in the United States. Instead, the   politician who most directly opposes Donald     Democratic nominee Hillary   doubling down on Merkelism. ” ’   Hillary Clinton’’s  to the Supreme Court decision on   executive amnesty looks at the issue exclusively and entirely   from the point of view of the migrants themselves: ”Today’’s   heartbreaking #SCOTUS immigration ruling could tear apart 5   million families facing deportation. We must do better.” ’ ’   That U. S. citizens might have different   that it is   the interests of citizens that deserve the highest attention of   officials elected by those   unsaid and apparently   unconsidered. But somebody is considering it. And those   somebodies, in their many millions, are being heard from this   year: loud, clear, and angry. ’ ’I said goodnight to a gloomy party of. ..’