’  ’ ”   Not too long ago, a trip to the gym might have inspired dread.   You’d have to slog through miles on the treadmill or the   elliptical, alone. It was daunting. ” ’   Sure, there was the option to take a group exercise class, but   unless you were step aerobics acolyte, you probably steered clear   of that room. ’ ”   Now, group exercise is all the rage; it’s redefined fitness as we   know it. ” ’   Zumba CEO Alberto Perlman chalks it all up to the rise of the   instructor. Consumers are increasingly willing to pay for an   expert to show them how to exercise. ’ ’   ”You’’re seeing all these trends from boutiques to Zumba to   CrossFit, and everything, because the fitness industry realized   that it was about the instructor and it was the consumers who   told the fitness industry that.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Think about it: If you’re a spinning fan, you know which   classes you like to go to   maybe that teacher has the best   playlist or says the right platitudes. There’s probably an   instructor who just yells at you and makes you hate working out.   Unsurprisingly,   gyms   like Equinox   tend to get     instructors who make the workout about the people in   the class, as opposed to people who are just looking to get paid   to get a workout in. ” ’   Popular   studio Flywheel always places an emphasis   on hiring top instructors. ’ ’   Creative Director Danielle   told Business Insider last   fall that instructors should be knowledgeable about music so they   can curate great playlists. She said the company looks for people   who are motivational, enthusiastic, confident, and most   importantly, come equipped with ”athletic prowess.” ’ ’    ’ ’   And SoulCycle has made its entire business model around the   excitement of a good instructor . .. though it might be to a   fault. ’ ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ”   While that could make for an entertaining class, experts say it   doesn’t lead to a safe class. ” ’   ”These instructors know little, if anything, about physiology,   biomechanics, or real cycling technique. This is also a sad   exposé of this   not just at this studio,” master   Spinning instructor Jennifer Sage wrote for the  referring to   SoulCycle, but also shedding light on other instructors in the   cycling industry. ”Far too few instructors in the United States   have sufficient experience and education in exercise science and   anatomy. A   indoor cycling certification is usually not   enough to provide a new instructor the materials needed to put   together and teach safe and effective classes.” ’ ’  ’ ’   But Perlman believes that all of the trends in fitness are linked   to the focus on   instructors, which makes sense      Even more so, fitness experiences have lent   themselves to acting as communities, as ”Sweaty Equity” author   and Bloomberg New York Bureau Chief Jason Kelly explained to   Business Insider earlier this month. ’ ’  ’ ’   And most communities need a leader to guide people through their   journeys   hence, the instructor. ’ ’Not too long ago, a trip to the gym might have. ..’