’  ’ ’ Two factors have helped mitigate the price changes caused     by decreased agricultural production in California:     substitution between goods and global markets. ’ ”     Despite the arrival of increased rain and snow from El Niño     this winter, California enters the  of its . The drought has been especially acute in the state’s     Central Valley, which ranges from .   ” ”     With its fertile soil, moderate climate, and unparalleled     irrigation system, the Central Valley is one of the most     productive agricultural regions on the planet, producing nearly     all of America’s almonds, olives, walnuts, and pistachios; the     vast majority of its grapes, strawberries, avocados, carrots,     tomatoes, and lettuce; and  of milk and cattle. As a     result of the drought, California’s 39 million residents are     competing for fewer available water resources. Water prices     have spiked, .   ” ’     The drought and the subsequent increased cost of water have led     to declines in agricultural production across the state.      production of oranges are down 9 percent,     avocados down 13 percent, garlic down 6 percent, romaine     lettuce 15 percent, and olives 29 percent in   most     recent year on   with the previous       average. The drought  in 2014 alone due to the combination of revenue     losses from lower production and additional pumping costs.   ’ ”     The decline in California agricultural supply has resulted in     higher prices for some fresh fruits and vegetables on     supermarket shelves, but so far, the drought hasn’t led to a     significant increase in food shortages or insecurity here or     abroad. In fact, world food prices are currently at a  according to     the U. N.’s Food and Agricultural Organization. Two factors have     helped mitigate the price changes caused by decreased     agricultural production in California: substitution between     goods and global markets.   ” ”     First, unlike staple crops like wheat and rice, consumers can     easily swap many of the products grown largely in California,     like almonds and strawberries, for other nuts, fruits, and     vegetables grown in areas not being hit by drought.     Substitution isn’t just happening at the consumer level either.     Producers in California are substituting away from traditional     staples like oranges and avocados and towards fruits like     grapes, pomegranates, and dragonfruit that use less water and     are more economically productive. This is      according to Daniel Sumner at the University of       who notes that over the last two centuries,     California has shifted away from wheat and cotton production to     its current mix of crops.   ” ”     Second, though California may be the biggest American producer     of many crops, it is far from the only source of avocados,     olives, or grapes internationally.  though     California produces 86 percent of   avocados, 82     percent of the avocados consumed in the U. S. are imported from     other countries like Mexico. Indeed, the U. S.’s imported share     of fruits and vegetables such as olives, peaches, beans, and     lettuce .     Though production costs may be increasing for California     farmers, they haven’t changed elsewhere around the world. As     the price of produce goes up due to the decreased supply of     California goods, competing farmers from Latin America to     Southeast Asia may now find it worthwhile to increase their     production, even if their marginal costs are slightly higher,     which helps limit the potential for shortages and price     increases.   ” ’  ’ ’     The reactions of California farmers, foreign producers, and     domestic consumers to the drought highlight a few key lessons     for food security moving forward. First, substitution and     diversification are critical. Both producers and consumers have     been able to shift to other agricultural products that cost     less, use less water, and are more economically efficient than     those hit hardest by the drought. Just like a stock portfolio,     a more diversified agricultural portfolio and diet help limit     vulnerability to major price fluctuations by any individual     good in the basket.   ’ ”     While these two principles of substitution and diversification     may work well for the nuts, fruits, and vegetables of     California’s Central Valley, it also highlights the risk of     supply disruptions to crops with few options for substitution,     such as the three   of rice, wheat, and maize, which     are . Wheat alone accounts for more calories     and protein than any other crop on the planet, and as a result     the demand for wheat is highly inelastic, making slight changes     in the supply and price of wheat felt strongly throughout the     world.   ” ”     Relatedly, the global food supply chain can handle disruptions     in one major breadbasket like California’s Central Valley, but     food insecurity becomes a real challenge when drought, floods,     or extreme weather events affect multiple major food producers     at once. A major  run     last fall by the Center for American Progress and the World     Wildlife Fund highlighted how climate change is increasing the     likelihood of simultaneous disruptions to major food producers.     Part of the reason why wheat prices  was because three major wheat       Kazakhstan, and   all hit with extreme weather that     reduced production at the same time.   ” ’     Most Americans live in a state of blissful ignorance about the     food that appears on our grocery store shelves. At best, we     might think about which fruits and vegetables are in season,     but rarely do we consider the global supply chain required to     bring the food to market, the equilibrium of supply and demand     that influence the prices we pay, or the delicate balance of     heat, soil nutrients, and water required to grow each       how those pieces of the puzzle might be changing forever.   ’ ”     We take our food security for granted until it’s not so secure     anymore. The California drought didn’t cause any food riots,     but it provides a window into the future of many other     breadbaskets around the world. The best practices in     conservation, substitution, and diversification we’re learning     from California are the things we’ll increasingly need at a     global scale to keep affordable food on the table.   ” ’Two factors have helped mitigate the price. ..’