’  ’ ’   Britain is getting exactly what it voted for when it pipped for   an exit from the European Union. ’ ’   It is hurtling toward a recession and a fractured political   landscape that now seems irreparable. ’ ’   This is not fearmongering. The warnings were laid out repeatedly   across a seemingly endless raft of reports from the Treasury,   bank analysts, and independent research firms and think tanks. ’ ’   These predictions were dubbed ”Project Fear” by the Leave camp,   which suggested that such doomladen forecasts were designed to   scare voters into submission to vote for the status quo. ’ ’   But it is all coming true. Maybe people were ”fed up of hearing   from experts,” as one Leave campaigner suggested. But wilful   ignorance does not negate the fact that all the warning signs   were there in big, blaring neon lights. ’ ’   All those forecasts are happening, and the worst is yet to come. ’ ”   British Chancellor George Osborne    after being notably absent since Britain’s vote Thursday to leave   the EU. He sought to try to reassure the markets after stocks,   the pound, and various other asset classes crashed in the   immediate aftermath of the referendum result: ” ’  ’ ”   A week before the referendum took place, he said explicitly that   Britain’s Treasury would have to  ” ’   And despite members of the Leave campaign filing his comments   under Project Fear and members of the public saying that it was   ”typical” Conservative Party policy to hurt the more vulnerable   parts of society, independent research houses backed up the   plausibility of his claims. ’ ’ most likely to   increase borrowing by . ’ ”   If the economy tanks, tax rises and   cuts become   the natural course of action as the country’s fiscal position   worsens. ” ’   The fact he said he did not ”resile”  which means to abandon a   position   several times in his speech and in questions that   followed it indicates that these warnings may come true. ’ ’   Also echoing predictions is the way markets are reacting. ’ ’   Over the past few days, bank analysts and research firms have   published countless notes on what to expect next. All the   forecasts are dire and   with what they said before the   referendum. ’ ’   Markets are in near free fall. ’ ”   Take a look at  since just before the   referendum’s results were final: ” ’  ’ ’   Stocks of banks such as  are being annihilated.   A ’ ’   Pretty much every analyst who released a report over the past   year about a Brexit also predicted the massive slump in the   pound.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   On top of that, experts and ratings agencies warned repeatedly   about how Britain’s economy was going to be so badly hit that it   would threaten    growth and .   ” ’   The      all warned us about this. So really, those who   voted for a Brexit knew exactly what we were . ’ ’   Predictions of political chaos sounded like hyperbole before the   referendum, but the aftermath of a Brexit vote has proved them   correct. ’ ”   Britain’s political landscape is an utter farce right now. ” ” on Friday morning after the referendum results   were announced. While Cameron will remain prime minister until   October,    the formal notification of Britain’s intent to   exit the EU that will trigger a   negotiation period     until a new leader has been chosen. ” ’   On top of that, the Tory party has been split in half, and those   on the side of the Leave campaign have been criticised for   reneging on key campaign pledges, . ’ ”   On Sunday, Boris Johnson, the Brexit campaigner who is now a   favourite to become the country’s next prime minister, .   Instead he made a dubious claim that Britain would still enjoy   trade conditions of the EU’s single market. ” ”   At the same time, Britain’s main opposition party, . There have been more than 30   resignations in the Labour Party, from backbenchers to the front   bench shadow cabinet. ” ’   Jeremy Corbyn,  was in   charge of getting Labour members to vote for Remain. But in the   end, a bulk of Labour voters pipped for a Brexit: ’ ’  ’ ’   Because 51. 9% voted to leave the EU versus 48. 1% who voted for   Britain to stay within the EU, some argue that the surprising   number of Labour voters opting for a Brexit tipped the Leave   campaign over the edge. There were 17, 410, 742 votes for Leave and   16, 141, 241 votes for Remain. ’ ’   Elsewhere, predictions of an uprising of   political   parties across Europe are gathering strength. ’ ’  ’ ’   In a note by Morgan Stanley a few days before the referendum,   analysts predicted that a . ’ ’   Barclays also demonstrated in a note earlier this year . ’ ’   Now we are seeing this prediction turning into reality. ’ ’   Marine Le Pen, the leader of France’’s   National Front   party, called the Brexit a ”victory” while the party’’s vice   president, Florian Philippot, . ’ ” which takes over the European Union’s rotating     presidency in July, launched a petition to get its own   referendum on EU membership. ” ’     and   parties in the Netherlands,   Denmark, and Sweden are also calling for the same thing. ’ ’   So, this is what you voted for Britain. It was not speculation,   nor fearmongering. We were all given this   analysis   months, even a year, ahead of the vote, and now it is all coming   true. ’