’  ’ ’   Airbnb chose to fight. ’ ’   In June, San Francisco  asking the startup   to comply with tougher rental legislation or face daily fines. At   the time, the company refused to say how it would proceed or   whether it would comply. ’ ”   Twenty days later, we now know what Airbnb’s path forward will   be. ” ’   On Monday, the startup announced in a blog post that it has   decided to sue its hometown over the latest regulations, arguing   that the city broke federal law and went against its First   Amendment rights of freedom of speech. ’ ’   ” ’ ”   The feud began in early June after San Francisco’s Board of   Supervisors voted   to pass tougher legislation that would   make   rental companies responsible for enforcing some   of the city’s rental laws. The ordinance was officially passed on   June 14, and the mayor enacted it on June 24. ” ”   As it stands, Airbnb hosts in San Francisco are required to be   registered with the city. The new legislation requires that   Airbnb list on its website only properties that are in compliance   and have a registration number. Supervisor David Campos, who   put forth the legislation, likened it to a   company   requiring a driver’s license to operate. ” ’   If Airbnb failed to do so, then the city would fine the   startup and other   companies like it up to   $1, 000 daily for every day that they maintain unregistered or   improperly registered properties on their site. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tProving that it believes it’s above the law  sues SF to block new law from going into effect.  wants to play by its own rules. ’t’t” ’   Airbnb has decided to sue, arguing that the rules do nothing   to fix an onerous   registration process that   requires listing owners to appear at a city building in person.   Airbnb also argues that it puts San Francisco residents at risk   for eviction. ’ ’   In a copy of the complaint, viewed by Business Insider, the   startup alleges that the city violates several federal laws   and the First Amendment by restricting its free speech.   Specifically, Airbnb argues that it goes against the   Communications Decency Act of 1996 and the Stored   Communications Act. ’ ’   The lawsuit doesn’’t come without warning, though. Before the   vote, law firm Davis Wright Tremaine sent a letter commissioned   by technology coalition CALinnovates to the San Francisco city   attorney, arguing that the amendment would threaten ”vital   protections” of online content and ”would be vulnerable to a   legal challenge.” ’