’  ’ ”   Thursday’s vote favoring a British exit from the European Union,   or Brexit, has been described as  signaling  across the European continent. ” ’   Oddly enough, the UK actually pulled  by removing itself from the European   Exchange Rate Mechanism. The two events have drawn comparisons   from investors  (who helped bring about the 1992 move)   and market analysts. ’ ’   While the precipitous drop in the pound is no doubt an apt   comparison, there is just one problem with the       ideas: stocks. ’ ”   Here’s a breakdown from Capital Economics on the dichotomy   (emphasis added): ” ’’ ’   There are a lot of similarities here, with a crashing pound and   an increased separation between the UK and the rest of Europe.   The comparison, however, ignores what makes the exit this time   radically different, Capital Economics said, and explains the   stock drop. ’ ’   In 1992, Capital Economics said, the ERM was leaving the pound   uncompetitive and ”strangling” the UK’’s economy. Thus, the exit   may have left the pound weaker for a time but was seen as an   overall positive for the growth of the economy. ’ ”   This time, however, it’s different. Here’s Capital Economics   again (emphasis again added): ” ’   Many investors are worried that, rather than be seen as a   liberation from Europe, the Brexit will be a drag on the UK   economy. Those worries, specifically focused on uncertainty   around trade deals and the ability of the UK to access the EU   market, were followed by a negative reaction in the stock   market. ’ ’   There is hope, however, that this could be a   worry   similar to that of 1992. ’ ’   ”Admittedly, the outlook for the earnings of UK companies ought   to improve eventually as a result of the favorable impact of   sterling’’s depreciation on activity,” Capital Economics’’ note   said. ’ ’   ”As it happens, our view is the UK economy will cope reasonably   well in the long run outside the EU. But it may take time before   the UK stock market feels the benefit.” ’ ”   Right now it appears that the 1992 playbook isn’t going to work,   but  to export its goods easier   and could have other positive economic effects. So it may not be   time to throw out the playbook yet. ”