’  ’ ’   People instantly went nuts when photos of    Oscar   winner J. K. Simmons looking extremely ripped at the gym   surfaced online. ’ ’ including, of course,   lots of memes. ’ ’   Many assumed that the actor was getting in shape for his role as   Commissioner Gordon in the DC Comics ”Justice League” movie   that’’s shooting. ’ ”   But while talking to Business Insider recently, Simmons said that   that wasn’t the case. ” ’   The actor says that his physique is strictly motivated by staying   healthy. ’ ’   ”This is all coincidental,” Simmons, who’’s doing press for the     release of ”Kung Fu Panda 3,” in which he voices the   villain, Kai, told Business Insider. ”After the second and final   time that I got hugely fat in my life and when I lost that weight   six or seven years ago, I pretty much decided that I was going to   stay in decent shape for the rest of my life.” ’ ’   The photos were actually taken at the end of April. He has since   shaved the beard, which was for his role in the movie his wife   wrote and directed, ”I’’m Not Here,” before ”Justice League.” ’ ”   Simmons said that his Jim Gordon will look very much like the   other versions of the character we’ve seen. ” ’   ”I’’m not going to mess with something that iconic,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Simmons said that he first noticed how out of shape he was in   1997, when he was playing the   character Vern in the   landmark HBO series ”Oz.” ’ ’   He said: ’ ’   Then around 2009, Simmons got up to 250 pounds and vowed to get   in better shape. He teamed with trainer Dana Perry, who got him   down to the sleek look he showcased in his     performance in the 2014 film ”Whiplash.” ’ ’   ”I’’ve gone back and forth with   the kind of   conditioning I’’m doing,” Simmons said. ”Sometimes trying to shed   weight and getting leaner and sometimes trying to pack on a   little more muscle.” ’ ’  ’ ’   And Simmons isn’’t looking to show off his body in movies. While   shooting ”Terminator Genisys,” in which he wears a suit in every   scene he’’s in, he was working with trainer Aaron Williamson, who   was also training the movie’’s leads, Emilia Clarke and Jai   Courtney. ’ ’   ”I just had free time to go to the gym, so I started training   with him,” Simmons said, adding that he still trains with   Williamson and Perry in LA. ’ ’   Simmons chuckles about the attention the pictures got. ’ ’   ”Those were shot at the end of April. I’’m huge now!” Simmons   joked. ’