’  ’ ’   Scotland is very unlikely to get another independence referendum,   says  Peter Catterall of   Westminster University. ’ ’   This is because it would be hugely ”messy” on a political level   and because the Scottish economy simply cannot handle a secession   right now,  ’ ’   In 2014, 55% of Scots voted to stay in the UK while 45% pipped   for independence. ’ ’   However, Scottish National Party leader Nicola Sturgeon has been   gunning for another independence referendum,   since Scotland overwhelmingly voted to remain in the EU   referendum (62%) while Britain as a whole voted for a   Brexit.  ’ ’   Catterall did say, however, that Scottish National Party leader   Nicola Sturgeon was extremely ”canny” and that she was the only   politician who had risen to level the events demanded in the wake   of the Brexit chaos  —   which saw Prime Minister David Cameron   resign on Friday and both of the UK’’s main political parties   scramble to secure their positions. ’ ’   Here are the main problems with a Scottish independence   referendum: ’ ’   First things first: Scotland may have its own parliament, but to   hold a national referendum it still needs permission from   Westminster in London.  undoubtedly a   healthy margin which surprised expectations. ’ ’   But following a decisive Scottish vote to remain in the EU, the     anger in Scotland could be enough to make Westminster   politicians think twice about allowing another independent   Scotland vote. And there is no constitutional obligation for the   UK government to allow it to happen, Dr. Catterall says: ’ ’   Dr. Catterall adds that while Sturgeon is being smart about how   she plays   politics, the EU may also have problems   with an independent Scotland joining: ’ ’   Another consideration is that Scotland might not even be able to   afford to be independent right now  —   and Nicola Sturgeon almost   certainly knows it. As Dr. Catterall says: ’ ”   Scotland’s claim to North Sea oil was major factor in the     campaigners’ manifesto, but  as has  which had to be   rescued by the British government after the 2008 financial crash    —   further complicating any talk of Scottish secession. ” ”   Scotland’s economy has grown far more slowly than the rest of the   UK as a whole since the last recession, the Guardian notes,    . This is not the picture   of a country ready to go it alone, even with the EU membership it   already enjoys. ” ’   Even if Scotland could get an independence referendum, the manner   of that independence is going to be really hard to agree on —   much   like the headache Westminster is having at the moment trying to   figure out the Brexit. As Dr. Catterall makes clear, the EU   already has a few examples of members with     arrangements, and finding one that suits   the majority will be tough: ’ ’   Two major things Scotland will have to decide before another   independence referendum is whether to join the Euro currency  —     maybe not a bad idea   —   and   the little matter of joining the Schengen agreement, . ’ ’   Whatever Scotland decides, the signs currently suggest it wants   to keep its EU option open. Alyn Smith begged the European   Parliament this morning to ”not let Scotland down,” making it   clear that whether it gets its unlikely independence referendum   or not, it still sides with Europe: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t”Do not let Scotland down”   standing ovation for  at European parliament    ’