’  ’ ’   JPMorgan is taking a new approach to working with tech startups. ’ ’   The firm is expected to launch a residency program for   financial technology, or fintech, companies on Thursday in   an effort to tackle strategic and   challenges. ’ ”   The   startups will be tasked with finding innovative   solutions to specific challenges  —   which will be listed on   JPMorgan’s website  —   using technologies like distributed ledger,   big data, or machine learning. ” ’   The program is the latest step by a Wall Street bank to improve   its technology. Many firms are ’ ’   Some, like Barclays and Deutsche Bank, have launched startup   accelerators. Others are making strategic investments in the tech   companies. ’ ’’ ”   But JPMorgan’s residence program is a little different: The   corporate and investment bank will house the fintech   companies for six months in its offices around the   world, and they will work alongside the bank’s own   businesses. ” ’   JPMorgan has been proactive about incorporating fintech   into its operations. It  earlier this year with the   blockchain startup Digital Asset Holdings. Blythe Masters, its   CEO, is a former JPMorgan executive.  ’ ’   The firm is also developing new technologies   and employs   about 40, 000 technologists across the firm, with a $9 billion   technology budget. ’ ’   ”Fintech and new capabilities, they are crucial for everything   that we do,” Daniel Pinto, the head of the corporate investment   bank, said at JPMorgan’’s Investor Day in February. ’ ’   He announced at the time that the firm would be creating the   residency program and said that, despite JPMorgan building most   of the technology it uses, the firm was not afraid to partner   with startups to codevelop certain applications. ’ ’   The ”business of technology,” Pinto said, is no longer a     concern, but rather ”totally integrated” into the   firm’’s businesses. ’ ’  ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Fintech Briefing and never miss an update!’