’  ’ ’   President Barack Obama unloaded on Donald Trump in a lengthy rant   during  implying that Trump   is not really a ”populist” and is instead exploiting people for   his own gain. ’ ’   Without mentioning the presumptive Republican presidential   nominee by name, Obama accused Trump of using the populist label   to mask his appeals to what Obama described as nativist and   xenophobic sentiments within the US electorate. ’ ’   Alluding to Trump, Obama criticized the candidate who ”has never   shown any regard for workers, has never fought on behalf of     issues or making sure that poor kids are getting a   decent shot at life, have healthcare.” ’ ’   Obama also accused Trump of working against ”economic opportunity   for workers and ordinary people.” ’ ’   ”They don’’t suddenly become a populist because they say something   controversial in order to win votes,” Obama said. ”That’’s not the   measure of populism. That’’s nativism. Or xenophobia. Or worse. Or   it’’s just cynicism.” ’ ’’ ’   Obama praised Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who challenged   Hillary Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination, for   dedicating his career to fighting for people. Obama said Sanders   was an example of someone who ”genuinely deserves” to be called a   populist. ’ ’   ”There are people like Bernie Sanders who I think genuinely   deserve the title,” Obama said. ”Because he has been in the   vineyards fighting on behalf of these issues.” ’ ’   Obama also cautioned voters against gravitating to an   opportunistic candidate. ’ ’   ”I would just advise everybody to be careful about suddenly   attributing to whoever pops up at a time of economic anxiety the   label that they’’re a populist,” Obama said. ”Where have they   been? Have they been on the front lines working on behalf of   working people?” ’ ’   He concluded: ”I’’m not prepared to concede the notion that some   of the rhetoric that’’s been popping up is populist.” ’ ”   Obama is in Ottawa, Ontario, this week for the North American   Leaders’ Summit. ”