’  ’ ’   The Austrian Constitutional Court has declared the presidential   election in Austria invalid because of numerous irregularities,   and the whole election will now have to take place a second time. ’ ’   The court found there had been irregularities in 94 out of 117   voting districts, the . ’ ’   The election, which took place in May, was narrowly lost  —   by   less than a percentage point  —   by   Freedom Party   candidate Norbert Hofer. ’ ’   The Freedom Party had challenged the election results, saying   postal votes had been mishandled. ’ ’   The term in office of the outgoing president, Heinz Fischer   (independent) will end July 8. His duties as head of state will   provisionally be fulfilled by Parliament President Doris Bures   (Social Democrats) and her two deputies, Karlheinz Kopf and   Hofer. ’ ’’ ’   Back in May, the Interior Ministry had given Alexander van der   Bellen (The Greens) 50. 3% of the vote, compared with 49. 7% for   Hofer, who had run on an   platform. ’ ”   If elected, Hofer would be the first   head of state of a   European Union country, though Austria’s presidency is a   ceremonial role. Nonetheless, Hofer had already said before the   election that if he won, he would try to extend his limited   powers. ” ’   The new election is expected to be held in September or October,   . ’ ’   During the investigation, 90 witnesses were called to clarify the   allegations. Numerous election officials acknowledged in   interviews that they had broken some laws when counting   approximately 740, 000 valid absentee ballots. ’ ’   According to the Interior Ministry, many constituencies had   started counting the absentee ballots on election night, when   they were only legally allowed to do so the next day. ’ ’   The court said in its ruling that it was using its strict   standard on the application of election rules, as it said that   might have influenced the results but added that there was no   proof that the count had been manipulated, . ’