WASHINGTON  —   In the aftermath of Democrats’ demoralizing election defeat, Representative Nancy Pelosi’s bid to return as minority leader has been transformed into a larger debate about what has gone wrong with a party that eight years ago controlled Congress and the White House. Ms. Pelosi, a    San Francisco progressive, is expected to easily win   when her colleagues vote on Wednesday. But she has become a   for complaints that Democrats have failed to offer a compelling,   economic message to the   voters in the Midwest and South who helped them capture the House 10 years ago and made Ms. Pelosi the first woman speaker. Representative Tim Ryan, who represents a   district in northeastern Ohio, has mounted an unexpected challenge to Ms. Pelosi and given voice to the message that House Democrats must broaden their appeal beyond the three liberal states  —   California, Massachusetts and New York  —   that now account for a third of their members. Mr. Ryan argues that his party can only rebuild if it   itself as the party of the working class. “We’ve lost that brand, and that’s the brand that gets you elected,” said Mr. Ryan, who is also thought by colleagues to be considering running for governor of Ohio in 2018. In an interview, Ms. Pelosi brushed off his challenge. “I haven’t noticed it,” she said when asked if Mr. Ryan had won appreciable support. She added that she had spent last weekend reaching out to the party’s losing candidates rather than rounding up support from her colleagues. Ms. Pelosi has her share of detractors. She retains a tight grip on important decisions such as who controls the party’s campaign arm, and, more to the point, she and the two other   House Democrats are septuagenarians who have stood in the way of younger, ambitious lawmakers for over a decade now. But the criticism of her tenure is as much a vehicle for airing broader complaints about the condition of a party that just lost the presidency, failed to regain the Senate and picked up only six House seats as it is an attempt to oust her from her post. “This is not just on Nancy Pelosi,” said Representative Debbie Dingell of Michigan, who is supporting her. “Our entire party has to figure out how we appeal to everybody, how we reconnect with the working class. ” Donald J. Trump’s surprising win, powered by his strength across much of the industrial Midwest, and the weak showing of congressional Democrats led many in the party to conclude that its deficiencies cannot simply be chalked up to the traditional disadvantage it faces in   elections, when turnout drops, a common excuse after losses in 2010 and 2014. Representative Marcia L. Fudge, an Ohio Democrat backing Mr. Ryan, said Mr. Trump had effectively taken a page from the Democratic playbook, zeroing in on jobs while Democrats highlighted social issues. “He took our talking points and used them, and we didn’t,” Ms. Fudge said. “It’s not that we abandoned our economic issues. It’s that we stopped talking about them. ” What so troubles Democrats, though, is that their difficulties may not be remedied by simply sharpening their message. The Republican dominance of redistricting in many states after the 2010 census, the clustering of progressives in urban areas, and increased correlation between the presidential and congressional vote have created structural challenges for Democrats in much of the country and threaten to keep them out of power in the House until well into the next decade. “We’ve got to be able to win in more places,” said Mark Mellman, a longtime Democratic pollster. “Otherwise it is going to be very hard to win a majority of House seats in the districts as currently configured. ” When Democrats recaptured the House in 2006, they did so thanks in part to the success of candidates in regions of the country  —   western North Carolina, for example  —   where they can scarcely compete now because of their liberal identity, redistricting and the country’s growing polarization. Ever since 2010, when they lost the majority, House Democrats have been routed across much of rural America. “There are just not enough urban and suburban seats to form a majority,” said former Representative Rick Boucher, a Democrat who held on to his seat in southwestern Virginia for 28 years until he was defeated in 2010. The brighter news for Democrats is that, while they have been hurt by the party’s decline in less populated areas, they have seen their prospects brighten in   regions of the country. But this has not translated into significant House gains because many of those state capitals are controlled by Republicans. “In the places that are getting better for Democrats, you have   redistricting,” said Todd Schulte, a former House Democratic official who now runs a group dedicated to an immigration overhaul, citing Arizona, Georgia, North Carolina and Texas. In the short term, Democrats are counting on help in 2018 from an old political standby: a midterm backlash against the party that controls the White House. They are especially optimistic that their fortunes could change if Republicans try to cut or privatize Medicare and Social Security. “Bring it on,” Ms. Pelosi said, recalling how Democrats rallied in opposition to President George W. Bush’s attempt to overhaul Social Security after his 2004 victory. “This is an opportunity for us. We know how to do it. We have done it before. ” The question is whether Ms. Pelosi, whom Republicans have demonized in the past, would be an impediment to a revival. “I think we need a new face,” said Representative Ed Perlmutter of Colorado. “There needs to be new energy injected. ” Other Democrats privately agree, but believe that Mr. Ryan is not the answer. Yet some of those who had been expected to compete to succeed her have left the House, notably Rahm Emanuel, now the mayor of Chicago, and Chris Van Hollen, who was just elected to the Senate from Maryland. Ms. Pelosi has worked to respond to the criticism, meeting privately with Democrats and proposing minor changes to the leadership structure. But the caucus has not fully recovered, and an increasingly new cadre of House Democrats are growing anxious. “If you were a big company and you were posting loss after loss after loss, the head of that company is not going to stay around too long,” said Representative Kathleen Rice of New York, who was just   to a second term and supports Mr. Ryan.