’  ’ ’   The  was one of   the  of World War I. ’ ’   The   attritional offensive saw more than a million   casualties: on the first day of fighting alone the British Army   suffered their largest loss to life of the war. ’ ’   The battle was also the first to be fought largely by civilian   volunteers rather than professional soldiers. ’ ’   These patriotic men became known as the  a term coined by Lord   Derby, many of whom saw their first major action on the first day   of the Somme offensive. ’ ’   Consequently the units sustained major losses  —   some 19, 000 men   died . ’ ’   The events of the Somme had such an impact on those who survived   that Britain saw a rising tide of psychiatric casualties and   doctors began to consider psychological disorders as a branch of   mainstream medicine for the first time. ’ ’   During World War I, the overall level of psychiatric causalities   mirrored that of physical casualties. The designated “signature   injury” of the Great War was deemed to be “shell shock”   by . This blanket   term was used to describe various manifestations that were   affecting men at war, for example, fits, tremors and nightmares. ’ ’   Shell shock has a variety of causes and affected a range of those   who witnessed the horrors of war: from determined regular   soldiers who served on the frontline for extended periods of   time, to individuals who just weren’t properly prepared for   battle, having received minimal training before being thrown into   the middle of it. ’ ’   Although not a medical term, shell shock should only be used when   referring to World War I and the common man’s experience of it. ’ ’ ’ ’   Today many of the symptoms associated with shell shock would be   considered  however during     many soldiers were discharged from service because   doctors just weren’t sure how to treat them. ’ ’   Such high discharge rates resulted in  —   particularly after the   Somme  —   a crisis of manpower: the British Army was in desperate   need to find a way to conserve their fighting strength. ’ ’   The solution came in the form of   —   later given the   acronym “PIE”. First  it was a method of   treating reactions to combat stress with the aim of preventing     psychiatric illness. ’ ’   Casualty clearing stations were set up within close “proximity”   (  miles) of the front line allowing “immediacy” of treatment   with the “expectancy” of a recovery. ’ ’   At the time it was claimed the PIE method saw 70% of soldiers   return to the . However, research has   since demonstrated that such outcome statistics were   both . Though the   principles of forward psychiatry are still in place in current   conflicts its heyday has now passed. ’ ’   Though the casualty rates of more recent conflicts are relatively   low compared to World War I, there seems to be an overlap between   the symptoms associated with shell shock and  the   claimed  of the Iraq and   Afghanistan conflicts. ’ ’   The similarities centre around exposure to blast force on the   battlefield: 100 years ago soldiers were exposed to exploding   artillery shells but more recent campaigns have seen soldiers   exposed to improvised explosive devices (IEDs). ’ ’   Asked to describe what it is like to endure such an explosion,   Gary Joynson, who served in the British Army on operations in   Iraq and Afghanistan said: “The shock waves pass through you so   fast, and your whole body is left feeling like you have just   belly flopped into a one inch paddling pool. ” ’ ’ ’ ’   Blast waves from IEDs expose the body to huge amounts of kinetic   energy, propagating as a shock wave passing through the skull and   essentially bruising the brain.  suggested that there may   be a unique pattern of physical damage to the human brain after   blast exposure. ’ ’   This distinctive scarring occurs in areas of the brain where   tissues of different densities intersect. Researchers identified   brain regions (for example, the amygdala, anterior cingulate   cortex and orbitofrontal cortex) whose function had been altered   due to blast exposure. ’ ’   The brain regions identified to be affected by blast scarring are   the same regions whose function, if disrupted, will result in the   unexplained symptoms soldiers experienced during World War I as   well as some of those currently ascribed . ’ ’   Considering this, we may now need to contemplate the possibility   that not all PTSD symptoms are purely psychological  —   some may be   the result of physical damage to the brain. ’ ’   These initial findings require further investigation, however,   and should be interpreted with caution  —   though they do provide   some insight into the possible underlying cause of the   inexplicable manifestations presented by soldiers 100 years ago. ’ ’   It is also still unclear at what level of blast pressure damage   to the brain occurs. Though new technology developed   to  experienced by soldiers   could have the answer. ’ ’   A “black box” will undoubtedly inform current and further   research in this field, and could guide efforts to reduce blast   pressure exposure, as well as inform treatment interventions for   those who continue to suffer from the invisible wounds sustained   during conflict. ’ ’   War is as it has always been, a dirty business. Living in austere   conditions for extended periods of time is not uncommon and   certainly not for the risk adverse. ’ ’   There is a stark difference between the   training   the “Pals” Battalions received, compared with our highly trained   military force today, but preparing individuals for the   emotionally challenging brutality of war is still difficult to   achieve. ’ ’   However, 100 years after the Battle of the Somme, we may of   finally solved the mystery behind some of the life altering   psychological conditions experienced by those who fought for   their country. ’