’  ’ ’   Tesla is one of those companies that people love to love. ’ ”   The   maker’s story is one of innovation and genius,   with a dose of erudite bravado coming from its intrepid CEO, Elon   Musk. ” ”   Musk has championed Tesla’s technologies, including the     feature called Autopilot. It’s essentially Tesla’s   public   experiment, and a glimpse into a future   of   cars. ” ”   Much has been said about Autopilot’s virtues  —   its ability to   keep the car in one lane, avoid collisions, and use cameras and   radar to detect its surroundings  —   but the technology is not   perfect. Japanese automakers, by comparison, are  of getting   such features into drivers’ hands before they are 100% ready. ” ”   Criticism of Tesla’s moves resurfaced this week when it was   revealed that a Model S driver . ” ”   Since the news broke, Tesla’s stock appeared poised to take a   hit. Shares fell in   trading on Thursday, the same day   the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration announced its   investigation of the incident. ” ’   But, New York University Stern marketing professor Scott Galloway   tells Business Insider that Tesla and its technologies have built   up enough goodwill in the market to withstand the setback.   ”  technology has a lot of momentum,” Galloway said,   ”short of a number of crashes like this, I think it’s going to be   a blip on the radar.” ’ ’   Tesla shares jumped to $216. 50 on Friday, closing the week higher   than it started. ’ ’  ’ ’   In this case, according to Galloway, Tesla did three things   right: ’ ’   ”Who did this terribly? It was General Motors,” Galloway said,   referring to the company’’s handling of a  that led to the deaths of more than   100 people. GM was hit with  as a result. ’ ’   In a broader sense, Galloway said Tesla benefits from the halo   effect that comes with being a tech innovator. ’ ’   ”They’’re seen as changing the world, so people are looking for   excuses to love it, and excuses not to be disappointed by it.” ’ ”   As far as the   technology behind all of this goes,   lawmakers don’t appear to be shying away either. ” ’   US Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx  earlier this year he planned to introduce   guidelines this summer to clear the way for wider deployment of   autonomous driving systems. ’ ’   “This technology is coming,” Foxx said. ”Ready or not, it’s   coming.” ’