’  ’ ’   American retail is struggling. ’ ’   One major problem is that shoppers do not want to come into   stores. After all, they have the ease of online shopping. ’ ’   This is not a secret. ’ ’   In fact,   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ to   the point that  retailers need to give   consumers more reasons than ever to shop in stores. ’ ’   Yet oddly enough, as fewer and fewer people come into stores,   retailers appear to become more lax about how their stores   look (or the excess inventory just keeps piling up). ’ ’  ’ ’   It ends up becoming a vicious cycle, turning off more and more   shoppers. ’ ’   ”To my mind, there are three issues: ease, inspiration, and   image,” Neil Saunders, CEO of consulting firm Conlumino wrote in   an email to Business Insider.  ’ ”   Further, clutter makes it difficult to shop, makes for an   uninspiring experience, and it seriously cuts into the company’s   brand image, something that many brands  —   from  to   —   have been fighting to keep alive,   particularly as  erodes their respective   reputations as premiere retailers. ” ’   ” ’ ”   This gives consumers more and more reasons to shop online  —   it’s   much easier, after all. ” ”   That’s not to say retailers aren’t trying to bring people into   stores. It’s just that lots of the strategies that companies are   employing aren’t helping;  and  have all reported negative comparable sales   in their most recent quarters. ” ”   Macy’s actually  to lure consumers into stores.  ” ”   However, it’s only led to lots of disarray  —   at least, in its   flagship in New York City. Look no further than the photo below   as evidence. ” ’  ’ ”   And Gap, for instance, proudly boasts promotions outside. It’s a   way to get people into physical stores (especially if they   weren’t going to buy the apparel at full price, anyway). ” ’  ’ ”   Yet these come at the expense, once again, of disrupting the   brand’s reputation and . ” ’   Macy’’s, however, seems to get that it needs to latch on to   ”experiences” to get people  —   especially young consumers, who   value ) over   ”things”  —   into stores. In Ohio, it’’s  that will include     experiences like personal shoppers and a spa.  ’ ”   But it raises a question: If people already don’t want to go   inside of a Macy’s, is that enough to bring them in? ”