’  ’ ’   Kansas has had trouble paying for much of anything since 2012,   when conservative legislators decided to implement a bevy of     economic policies —  and lead their state into a fiscal   crisis. ’ ’   In order to keep funding its government despite dramatically   decreased tax revenue, the Legislature has flipped all its piggy   banks. One of them is the Kansas Department of Transportation —  or   what sarcastic Kansans now call “the Bank of KDOT,” for the   stupendous quantity of money that has been diverted from its   coffers to the Kansas general fund and state agencies. ’ ’   Kneecapping the agency that builds roads isn’t just a great   metaphor for Gov. Sam Brownback’s tenure. Like  this damage will be most keenly felt years from now,   when deferred maintenance and high debt loads take their toll. An     of the Kansas Turnpike Authority  in December that the   practice had created a “  disaster for our state   highways. ” ’ ’   Here’s how my colleague Jordan Weissmann  Brownback’s     experiment in April:* ’ ’   On Wednesday, Brownback announced that Mike King, the secretary   of KDOT, would be resigning this month. King, who was appointed   in 2012, has presided over a rather unusual period in Topeka   finance. ’ ’   Since 2011,  the state has diverted more than $1 billion   in “extraordinary” transfers from KDOT. If you include “routine”   transfers, from 2011 through the 2017 budget year the total   diversion from the Bank of KDOT will amount to more than $2   billion. ’ ’   That’s more than KDOT’s . It’s as   if the state, which has the  in the nation, had taken away a full year of road   funding. ’ ’  ’ ’   The result was that KDOT decided to issue a   $400   million highway construction bond issue in December, more than   $100 million more than the agency had anticipated. That was only   legal because the Legislature agreed to temporarily  the agency’s debt   service limit. ’ ’   Even Kansas Republicans think it’s a bad idea. “That’s like a   credit card on a credit card,” Republican state Rep. Russ   Jennings told the Wichita Eagle in February. ’ ’   King’s predecessor, Deb Miller,  the Topeka     this week that King “started as KDOT   secretary at a time when the agency had a   and   solidly financed statewide highway program. He exits an agency   deeper in debt and with a weakened revenue stream more subject to   political whim. ” ’ ’   Brownback’s legacy will be grander, but we could call this the   Mike King doctrine: plugging holes in the budget; leaving holes   in the road. ’ ’ *Correction, July 1, 2016: This post     originally misspelled Jordan Weissmann’s last name. ’