’  ’ ’   In recent months, newspapers around the country have published   stories that sound like they could have been written 100 years   ago. Indiana’s syphilis cases skyrocketed by . Texas’ Lubbock county   was under a “” Various counties face  of the medication used to treat   syphilitic pregnant women. ’ ’   But the headlines are very much modern —  and urgent. Syphilis is   back,   experts say. ’ ’   For many years, syphilis was considered a practically ancient   ailment —  a “” that, like tuberculosis or polio,   Americans just don’t get anymore. There were just  of primary and secondary syphilis in 2000, and the   CDC  the disease’s total elimination   was within reach. ’ ’    ’ ’   This year, the U. S. Preventive Services Task Force  screening   people for   syphilis every three months. The disease is curable with   antibiotics, but it’s a bit of a secret agent, transmissible   through almost every sexual means and erupting as a tiny lesion   about a month after exposure. At various stages of the infection,   it might cause no symptoms or a  of them. If gone undiagnosed, it   can cause everything from disfigurement to seizures. ’ ’   As a result, “many people don’t know what syphilis is or how it’s   transmitted,” said Darryl Richards, the STD coordinator in   Decatur, Georgia, which has one of the  in the country. “Most people associate   sexually transmitted infections with a discharge or a burning   sensation. However, syphilis does not cause these symptoms. ” ’ ’   Among gay men, the syphilis infection rate has increased to   levels not seen since the start of the AIDS epidemic of the   1980s. Some   experts we interviewed think the   syphilis resurgence might be driven, in part, by the rise of     apps such as Grindr. And with the AIDS crisis now a   distant memory, gay men might not be as careful with condoms as   they once were. Indeed, those factors help explain why syphilis   rates have also spiked in parts of  and. ’ ’  ’ ’   But others say a big reason is federal and state governments’   failure to adequately fund local   budgets. ’ ’   “This is a sentinel event —  it is a failure of the healthcare   system,” Gail Bolan, the CDC’s director of STD prevention, said   at a recent Congressional briefing. ’ ’   Many cities and counties have dedicated,   STD clinics   that are staffed by government health workers who specialize in   sexually transmitted infections. They typically allow people to   walk in without an appointment and offer many services for free.   Each year, these clinics identify a fifth of all syphilis cases   in women and a quarter of those in men, but they’ve been gutted   by state, local, and federal budget cuts. The CDC, which helps   fund local STD prevention efforts, has lost  in its budget since   2005. ’ ’   In 2012, more than half of all STD programs in the country   . Many of them reduced their hours and screening   capacity as a result. Since 2008, local health departments shed   . Syphilis rates have risen more   rapidly in states that have underfunded syphilis prevention   efforts, according to the CDC. After  in the past four years   in New York, for example, 50, 000 fewer people have visited the   clinics for testing. ’ ”   “Our public health infrastructure is at the point of breaking,”   said Bill Smith, the executive director of the National Coalition   of STD Directors. “Our mantra has been to ‘do more with less,’   but now we’re doing less with less. The public’s health is in   danger. ” ” ’   Congress is now debating the funding level for STD prevention   grants in the fiscal year beginning October 1, and the prospects   for an increase are not good, Smith said. Syphilis, gonorrhea,   and chlamydia are all covered in one block of money sent to   states and cities through the CDC, and that line item has   remained flat, at around $157 million, for the last several   years. In a letter to members of the Senate, Smith wrote that   funding for STD prevention had dropped by $21 million since 2003,   which he said represented a 40 percent loss in purchasing power   for prevention programs. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Senate has proposed a $5 million cut in funding for STD   prevention as part of the appropriations bill covering the CDC,   while the National Coalition of STD Directors is seeking an $8. 1   million increase. The funding probably won’t change at all until   the spring of 2017, though, since Congress will likely pass only   stopgap bills that maintain current levels of spending until the   next president takes office. “The word we got back was that it’s   a tough budget year and cuts need to be made,” Smith said. ’ ’   That’s the same line he’s heard on Capitol Hill for the last     of austerity budgets in Congress. In the first years   of the Republican majority, lawmakers cited the     Affordable Care Act as an excuse not to increase sexual health   budgets. If more people are gaining insurance and access to care,   the reasoning went, why does Congress need to appropriate more   money for STD prevention? According to advocates and     workers, the answer is that people still turn to   publicly funded STD clinics for testing, rather than to family   doctors, either because they are uninsured (as  STD clinic patients are) or out of   embarrassment. ’ ’   “It’s not the flu. It’s not ‘my wrist hurts,’” Smith explained.   “That’s not something people are entirely comfortable sharing   with their primary care provider. ” And because syphilis was so   rare for so long, Smith says many general practitioners miss   clear signs of the disease that STD clinics are trained to   notice. ’ ’   Smith believes local health departments are     financially because “sex is one of those third rails,” and STDs   don’t have the newsy visibility of, say, Ebola or Zika. Few   lawmakers —  Democrats or Republicans —  step up to be champions of STD   prevention. While advocates no longer hear the moralizing from   conservative lawmakers they might have encountered a generation   ago, politicians are still leery of being the public face of   syphilis, gonorrhea, or chlamydia. ’ ’   Instead, the public face of syphilis, which in later stages can   cause from oozing wounds to  might eventually belong to unsuspecting,     people. ’