’  ’ ’   Where we choose to live is arguably the most important decision   we’ll ever make. ’ ’   But current research is conflicted as to what makes us happier:   urban or suburban life. A recent set of studies from the   sociologist Adam   sheds additional light on the   relationship between where we live and how happy or unhappy we   are. ’ ’   The    by Joan Maya Mazelis   and published in Urban Studies, uses data from the U. S.   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s 2005 Behavioral Risk   Factor Surveillance System to measure happiness across more than   230 counties in the U. S. The study uses statistical analysis to   identify the cause of unhappiness in urban, suburban, and rural   counties, while controlling for the less desirable aspects of   city life such as poverty, crime, and unemployment, and the   characteristics of cities themselves (their size, density, and   heterogeneity). ’ ’   At one end of the scale, the study finds that the three   unhappiest counties are all urban. Coming in at number one is St.   Louis, with a density of 5, 700 people per square mile —  about 19   times the density of the happiest county and five times the   density of two of the three happiest counties. The Bronx and   Brooklyn (Kings County) New York, take the next two spots, each   with a density of over 30, 000 people per square mile. ’ ’  ’ ’   At the other end, the three happiest counties (which scored above   a 3. 5 on the happiness scale) are mostly rural or a mix of   suburban and rural, according to the study. ’ ’   These counties include Douglas County, Colorado, outside Denver,   which has a density of 300 people per square mile; Shelby County,   Tennessee, outside Memphis, which has a density of 1, 200 people   per square mile; and Johnson County, Kansas, outside Kansas City,   which has a density of 1, 110 people per square mile. Note that   each of these places is located near a large city, which may   allow residents to benefit occasionally from urban resources and   amenities while still living in a much   area.   ’ ’  ’ ’   Indeed, the study finds that denser counties tend to have less   happy residents, even when controlling for factors like greater   crime and poverty. While these variables do weaken the   relationship between density and unhappiness, the effect remains   negative and significant. ’ ’   This leads the authors to conclude that size and density —  what   they call “the defining features of cities” —  are associated with   greater unhappiness. Even if cities were to reduce their levels   of crime, poverty, or unemployment, urban residents would still   be less happy than those living elsewhere. In this way, the study   notes, “cities act like a magnifying glass, bringing out the best   and the worst in us. ” ’ ’   In his  published in the journal   Cities,   explores this subject further by   determining the tipping point at which a city’s size becomes too   big and its residents become unhappy. In this case, the study   defines happiness in terms of “subjective wellbeing,” a common   definition of happiness, which includes both life satisfaction   and one’s mood. ’ ’   Using data from the   U. S. General Social Survey, the   study again finds that larger cities are far less happy than   smaller ones. As the figure below shows, happiness gradually   increases as population size declines. The one notable exception   is a sharp decline in happiness in communities of around   000 people. ’ ’  ’ ’     ’ ’   The study finds that unhappiness intensifies once a city’s   population reaches hundreds of thousands of people. For the most   part, the 60 cities in the U. S. with populations larger than   300, 000 are the least happy cities in the country. This leads the   study to conclude that “a person does not have to give up city   living to be happy, she just needs to avoid the biggest cities. ” ’ ’   Of course, there are certain aspects of city life —  crowds,   traffic, noise, stress, and higher costs of living —  that are   likely to make people less happy. Not to mention, urbanites are a     group: Cities may very well attract the kinds of   people who are less likely to be happy in the first place.   Although  that cities, and especially   dense urban neighborhoods, attract people who are creative,   innovative, and open to new ideas, they are also more   introverted, introspective, and perhaps overly critical. ’ ’   Big, dense urban areas are also home to greater concentrations of   neurotic people than suburbs or rural areas. Suburbs and rural   areas, by contrast, tend to attract more agreeable and   conscientious types who tend to be happier with their lives. ’ ’   At the end the day, the positive characteristics of cities —  their     life, diversity, greater opportunities, and heightened   exchange of skills and knowledge —  come at a price. It’s up to   individuals to decide which ones are worth the price of   happiness. ’