’  ’ ’   Istanbul International Airport was once a gloriously modern,   efficient airport for a country with big ambitions. ’ ’   Over the last decade, it reached well beyond its capacity and   became a frustrating slog for anyone accustomed to the       aspect of international travel. ’ ’   After the Justice and Development Party, or AKP, came to power in   late 2002 with an expansive foreign policy that included a   leading role for Turkey in the Muslim world, the country’s   national air carrier, Turkish Airlines, began to spread its   wings. ’ ’   The airline added service throughout the Middle East, North   Africa, and East Africa. Prior to the emergence of the AKP, it   was easy to get a good connection to Cairo via Istanbul, but by   the   passengers could also fly Turkish from New York   City to Erbil, Iraq; Algiers, Algeria; Sanaa, Yemen; and   Mogadishu, Somalia. ’ ’   As difficult as it had become to negotiate the crowds, Atatürk   International Airport is actually one of those places where   people momentarily abandoned their mutual suspicions and identity   politics in the service of the high principles of consumerism. ’ ’   Middle Easterners, Africans, Europeans, Asians, and a smattering   of Americans politely maneuver around one another as they shop   for Johnny Walker Black, Toblerone chocolate, Mavi Jeans, Dolce   and Gabbana sunglasses, and Turkish delight while they wait. ’ ’   This scene is consistent with the AKP’s worldview and its image   of itself. It’s also what makes Turkey so vulnerable to the   attacks that took place Tuesday at that very airport,  and injuring   hundreds. ’ ’   Since Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s AKP emerged from a split within   Turkey’s Islamist movement in 2001, the party has portrayed   itself as open to the world,   Europe ready, and   a leader in the Arab and Muslim worlds. The AKP made a connection   between the Ottoman era, Turkey’s present, and its future. ’ ’  ’ ’   It was from Istanbul, the Ottoman capital, that Turks dominated   the Middle East, North Africa, and the Balkans for the better   part of 600 years. Almost a century later, a newly confident   Turkish leadership, riding high on economic and political success   at home, sought to position itself as a moral force, economic   driver, and political power in the Muslim —  but particularly   Arab —  world. ’ ’   But the bubble has burst, leaving behind a trail of blood   stretching from Turkey’s predominantly Kurdish southeastern   cities to the international arrivals area at Atatürk   International Airport on the European side of Istanbul. Terrorist   attacks have killed 250 in the last year, laying bare Turkey’s   current reality: a   war made far worse by the   fragmentation of two of its neighbors. ’ ’   Terrorism and political violence are hardly unknown in Turkey. In   the old days, security would march passengers out on the tarmac   at Turkish airports, where they would have to identify their   luggage before it was loaded into the hold. This wasn’t     security theater, though. ’ ’   Since the   the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, has   waged a war against the Turkish state that has killed 40, 000,   most of them Kurds residing in the southeast but also members of   the security forces. The PKK has lashed out in urban areas in the   western part of the country and even reached into Europe to go   after Turkish interests. ’ ’   Before the war with the PKK, almost 5, 000 Turks lost their lives   in the late 1970s from communal bloodletting between rightist and   leftist groups. Yet for all that Turks have been forced to endure   in the last four decades, there seems to be something   unprecedented about the current violence. Yesterday’s attack was   the 11th in the last 12 months. ’ ’  ’ ’   In the past, when a bomb went off near an Istanbul police   station, it was fairly clear before the investigation even began   that it was likely the work of the PKK. Now, while the PKK is   still the largest threat (for a few reasons) Turkish authorities   must identify the perpetrators from several potential suspects   who have attacked political rallies, tourist sites, and now   Turkey’s major international airport. ’ ’   How does a government protect people from groups with disparate   motives when everywhere is a potential target? The Turks will   ramp up arrests of suspected ISIS supporters, intensify their   attacks on the PKK and a group called the Kurdish Freedom   Falcons, or TAK, and reinforce its passive defenses. In other   words, they will do what they have already been doing even though   it has had little effect. Expect more bloodshed in Turkey. ’ ’   The Turkish capital, Ankara, sits at the geographic center of a   variety of pressing global political, diplomatic, and security   issues. The same location that makes Turkey such a valuable   partner for the United States and the West also makes the country   vulnerable. The destabilization of Iraq and especially the   fragmentation of Syria have accentuated Turkey’s preexisting   security challenges and created new ones. ’ ’   The Turks, once the most likely neighbor to invade Iraq to   prevent that country’s Kurds from declaring an independent state,   have now forged an alliance of sorts with the Kurdistan Regional   Government. Still, Iraq’s instability has had a profound effect   on Turkey’s security. There is, of course, the broad and growing   problem of ISIS. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the American invasion of Iraq in 2003 breathed new life into   a PKK that had been pounded throughout the late 1990s and   thoroughly demoralized after its leader, Abdullah Öcalan, was   apprehended in 1999 and confined to a Turkish island prison in   the Sea of Marmara. In 2004, the PKK called off a unilateral   ceasefire and, from its bases in Iraq’s Qandil Mountains, began   attacking Turkish security forces while there were still tens of   thousands of American soldiers in Iraq. ’ ’   The PKK presence in Qandil was not something new, but the group   clearly took advantage of Iraq’s new reality to resume its   violent campaign against the Turkish state. The Turks and the PKK   began tentative peace negotiations in 2015, but nationalist   politics on both sides conspired to undermine them. ’ ’   It remains entirely unclear who fired the first shot in this   renewed war, but once again, Turkey’s air force is bombing PKK   positions in Iraq and Syria (and Turkey). Both the PKK and the   TAK have responded in kind by killing Turks in the streets. ’ ’   It is the civil war in Syria, however, that has contributed to   the deterioration of Turkish security. And it is here where the   Turks themselves have much to answer for. After developing close   ties with Syrian President Bashar   during the     then —  Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan (who now serves as   president) became one of the Syrian leader’s primary foes. Yet   the Turks were unwilling to make good on their conviction that   Assad must go, opting instead to try to cajole the Obama   administration into regime change. ’ ’   When the White House was not forthcoming, the Turks turned a   blind eye to people arriving at Atatürk International Airport on   their way to wage jihad against Assad in Syria. The malign   neglect soon became coordination with various extremist groups,   though Ankara insists that the Islamic State remained beyond the   pale for them. The Turkish opposition claims otherwise, based on   reports from the newspaper Cumhuriyet, whose editor was   jailed in retaliation for reporting on the alleged relationship   between Turkish intelligence and ISIS. ’ ’   Moreover, at the same time that foreign fighters began pouring   into Turkey, the PKK helped its Syrian counterpart, the   Democratic Union Party, set up an armed force called the People’s   Protection Units, or YPG, to protect Syria’s small Kurdish   population from Assad. It turns out that the YPG is a pretty good   fighting force and, with the help of American air power, has been   able to push ISIS out of most of a strip of territory running   along the   border. ’ ’   That is good for the United States and the   coalition   but bad for the Turks. That territory is now the de facto   autonomous region of Rojava, or Western Kurdistan. From the   Turkish perspective, Rojava is a terrorist state in the making on   the Turkish border that is inextricably linked to the PKK. ’ ’  ’ ’   It is a problem that the Turks could have prevented, however. The   YPG has enjoyed its battlefield success because when Washington   went searching for allies after ISIS overran Mosul in June 2014,   the Kurds raised their hands while the Turks prevaricated. ’ ’   Ankara did not want ISIS to retaliate in its streets and thought   Washington’s   strategy could not possibly succeed as   long as it did not include ending the Assad regime, and the Turks   were more worried about Kurdish nationalism than ISIS nihilism. ’ ’   When Turkey finally agreed to join the   coalition after   a year of negotiations and allow the use of Turkish bases, which   are closer to Raqqa and Mosul than airstrips in the Persian Gulf,   the Turks themselves remained ambivalent, focusing their   firepower on fighting the PKK. A year later, Syria has laid waste   to Ankara’s approach to the conflict there. With Washington’s   help, Syria’s Kurds control territory, Assad remains in power,   and Turkey itself is in ISIS’s crosshairs. ’ ’   It is hard to know where it all ends for the Turks. The fight   against Kurdish nationalism has widened and is connected to and   complicated by the American fight against the Islamic State.   Suddenly Turkey, which was touted as recently as 2011 as a   “model” for the Arab world, is manifestly unstable and a portion   of its territory is at risk. ’ ’   In the imagination of the ruling AKP, Atatürk International   Airport was the place where the world would first experience its   allegedly liberalizing and   view of the world and   the Turkish place in it. That was true for a while, but now it is   a place where the volatile mix of Turkey’s political traumas and   extremist ideologies blew up. ’