’  ’ ’   A   solution to the   conflict is   slipping away, the U. N. special coordinator for Middle East peace   warned on Sunday, after both sides shrugged off criticism by   international mediators. ’ ’   A report released on Friday by the   Quartet   United   States, European Union, United Nations and Russia   called on   Israel to stop its policy of building settlements on occupied   land and restricting Palestinian development. ’ ’   Israeli policy ”is steadily eroding the viability of the     solution,” it said. It also urged the Palestinian   Authority, which exercises limited   in the West Bank,   take steps to end incitement to violence against Israelis,   condemn ”all acts of terrorism” and do more to combat them. ’ ’   ”The Quartet report sounds an alarm bell that we are on a   dangerous slope towards a   reality that is incompatible   with the national aspirations of both peoples,” wrote Nickolay   Mladenov, U. N. special coordinator for the Middle East peace   process, in a commentary emailed to journalists on Sunday. ’ ’   He also addressed Palestinian and Israeli criticism of the   Quartet report. ”Who will make the argument that more cannot be   done to end incitement?” he asked. ”Can anyone question that   illegal settlements . .. are not undermining the prospect for a     solution?” ’ ’   Israel welcomed parts of the Quartet report but signaled no   change in settlement building, saying the document ”perpetuates   the myth that Israeli construction in the West Bank is an   obstacle to peace”. ’ ’   Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said Palestinian refusal to   recognize Israel as a Jewish state is at the heart of the   impasse. ’ ’  ’ ’   A spokesman for Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas expressed   disappointment that the Quartet did not call for full Israeli   withdrawal to lines that existed before the Israel captured the   West Bank and East Jerusalem in a 1967 war. ’ ’   The Palestinians want an independent state in those areas and in   the Gaza Strip, a coastal enclave controlled since 2007 by the   Islamist Hamas group. Peace talks collapsed in April 2014 and     violence has surged in recent months. ’ ”   Mladenov appealed to Israeli and Palestinian leaders to implement   the report’s recommendations, offering the help of the   international community to do so. ” ’   ”I urge leaders on both sides not to miss this opportunity,” he   wrote. ’