’  ’ ’   The past week has seen a horrendous upswing in ISIS terrorist   attacks around the globe. And, horrifyingly, these attacks could   signal the beginning of a more pronounced worldwide ISIS campaign   that represents a marked shift in tactics. ’ ’ to Clint Watts, a former FBI special agent on the   Joint Terrorism Task Force and a Robert A. Fox Fellow at the   Foreign Policy Research Institute’’s Program on the Middle East,   this surge in global attacks from ISIS could become the new   normal as the terror group loses ground in the Middle East and   its vast array of foreign fighters now find themselves   ”homeless.” ’ ’   ”For those homeless foreign fighters, the choice is simple: They   can either die in place fighting for a crumbling caliphate or   they can go out as martyrs striking their homelands or regional   or international targets,” Watts . ’ ’   He added: ”The Islamic State owns the largest number of homeless   foreign fighters in history. As the group loses turf, they’’ll   likely become part of the largest human missile arsenal in   history and be directed against any and all soft targets they can   reach. This campaign is likely not the end of the Islamic State’’s   suicide campaign, but only the beginning.” ’ ’   Between June 27 and July 4, ISIS carried out seven successful   attacks and one additional attempted attack in eight countries.   The attacks stretched from  in the West; to  and  to ; and a  in Malaysia. ’ ”   This series of attacks, according to Watts’ analysis for FPRI,   illustrates both the terror group’s continued reversal of fortune   on the ground in the Middle East, as it steadily loses territory,   as well as the group’s startling ability to strike worldwide at   soft targets. ” ”   Incidentally, this global reach is enabled and caused by ISIS’   military losses. The group’s vast contingent of foreign fighters   is now left without a   and are slowly returning   to their home countries. ” ’  ’ ”   On June 26, Iraq announced that it had  the entire city of Fallujah from ISIS. Fallujah was   the first Iraqi city to fall to ISIS and was seen as a deep   bastion of support for the group. The loss of the city comes amid   a string of defeats for the terror group throughout the country  —     and as Iraqi forces are  for an assault on Mosul, Iraq’s   city   and the crown jewel of ISIS’ territory in the country. ” ”   In Syria, ISIS’ fortunes are also fading.   forces have   been reclaiming land from ISIS along the group’s last shared   border with Turkey, which would further isolate the group   internationally. ” ’   But as the group’’s losses pile up and its ”caliphate” continues   to shrink, ISIS is likely to continue instigating and attempting   to carry out global terror attacks in order to maintain the   group’’s relevance. ’