’  ’ ’   Years from now, Game 6 of the 2016 Western Conference Finals   between the Golden State Warriors and Oklahoma City Thunder may   not be remembered as a pivotal turning point in NBA history, but   its effect could be felt for years. ’ ’   After  that game is looking more and more like a crucial   moment in laying out the current NBA landscape. ’ ”   Game 6 was supposed to be the Warriors’ funeral and the Thunder’s   arrival. The Warriors were trailing the Thunder   in the series   and facing elimination for the second straight game. Despite    while facing elimination   at home, Game 6 was taking place in front of a raucous Oklahoma   City crowd, where the Warriors had just been pummeled in Games 3   and 4. ” ”   And for much of the game, it looked like the   Warriors   wouldn’t even make it back to the Finals. While it was a close   game, the Thunder held a slight edge, continuing to stifle the   Warriors in the paint while outworking them on offense. ” ”   With five minutes to go, after Kevin Durant knocked down a   jumper, the Thunder led  . That’s when Klay Thompson  —   who   had been having a monstrous game,   keeping the   Warriors in it with a bevy of difficult, contested      —   nailed a deep   to quell the Thunder. It marked a   strange atmospheric shift in the game. ” ’ ’ ’   Those final five minutes saw the entire series reverse course.   The Thunder became stagnant and tentative, while the Warriors,   playing for their lives, became the aggressors. Andre Iguodala,   acting as a   defensive Swiss army knife, got key stops on   Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook. One strip of Westbrook led to   what became the dagger three from Thompson. ’ ’ ’ ’   Another stop by the Warriors led to a Stephen Curry layup to put   the Warriors up five and seal the win. ’ ’   In those final five minutes, the Thunder went    from the   field with six turnovers. Though it simply evened up the series,   they breathed life into the Warriors, much in the same way the   . ’ ’  ’ ”   The Warriors won Game 7 in Oakland, returning to the Finals while   breaking Oklahoma City’s collective heart. Three times the   Thunder had the chance to put away the Warriors and couldn’t. ” ”   Following Durant’s decision to join the Warriors,  that the final five minutes of Game 6   were so crazy that Warriors general manager Bob Myers immediately   rewatched them just to try to process what happened. ” ’   ”I never do that,” Myers told Lowe. ”I just wanted to see what   happened. I didn’’t understand it. I still don’’t.” ’ ’   Lowe wrote: ’ ”   There’s no guarantee that a trip to the Finals would have changed   Kevin Durant’s decision, but it’s fair to argue that it may have   affected it. It would be difficult to leave a team who just   returned to the Finals for the first time since 2011. It would be   even tougher to do so if the Thunder had won the Finals. ” ’   Had the Thunder won the championship, the ripple effect across   the league would be huge. A few things that would have possibly   changed: ’ ”   This doesn’t include the multitude of events that have yet to   unfold in the wake of Durant’s decision. For instance, how teams   will go about building their rosters to overcome this monster in   the bay. The   construction is alive and well, and, on   paper, the NBA looks more   than ever. ” ”   None of these are guarantees  —   perhaps the Cavaliers would have   beaten the Thunder in seven games. Perhaps they would have swept   them. Perhaps Durant would have left Oklahoma City even after   winning the championship. It’s all unknown. ” ”   But collapsing to the Warriors only reinforced the fact that it   will never be easy for Durant in Oklahoma City. Failing to close   them out three times in a row made room for doubt to creep in.   That Game 6 was the Thunder’s best chance to get over the hump   and return to the Finals, and they couldn’t do it. ” ”   That group of Warriors players that tore apart the Thunder as   we’ve known them are now Durant’s teammates. Together, they’ve   formed a   unlike anything the NBA has ever seen. ”