’  ’ ”   Al Qaeda has thrived in Syria thanks to the continued political   survival of Syrian President Bashar Assad and Washington’s   failure to adequately support the revolution’s more moderate   opposition groups, Syria expert Charles Lister . ” ’   ”The principal benefactor of Assad’’s survival is not Assad, nor   Russia, Iran, Hezbollah or even ISIS  —   it is Al Qaeda,” Lister, a   senior fellow at the Middle East Institute and author of   ”,” wrote in The Daily Beast. ’ ’   ”Having spent the past five years embedding itself within broader   revolutionary forces and strategically choosing to limit and very   slowly reveal its extremist face, Al Qaeda’’s Syrian affiliate   Jabhat   is reaping the rewards of our failures to solve   the Syrian crisis,” Lister added. His research on Syria’’s   antigovernment insurgency has involved direct engagement with the   leadership of more than 100 opposition groups from across the   country. ’ ”   A proposal for  against Nusra in Syria  —   which would involve enhanced   sharing of information about the group’s positions  —   was   confirmed Wednesday in a phone call between Russian President   Vladimir Putin and US President Barack Obama. ” ’   But the new initiative is more likely to enhance than hinder   Nusra’’s momentum in Syria, where the group has ”accepted more   than 3, 000 Syrians” in the country’’s Idlib and Aleppo provinces   in the past five months. ’ ’  ’ ”   Experts say any perceived coordination between the US and Russia   is likely to increase the opposition’s disenchantment with the   West. ” ’   Rebels have expressed concern that weakening Nusra would   strengthen Assad. And in its campaign to eliminate Syria’’s   ”terrorists,” Russia has primarily bombed moderate opposition   factions and civilian targets, including hospitals, schools, and   bakeries. ’ ’   ”The continuing mingling in places of the   moderate   opposition” with Nusra is ”complicating antiterrorist action,”   Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov . ’ ”   Acquiescing to a central Russian request, the US reportedly has   begun urging rebel groups to leave areas where Nusra is present   so Russian warplanes can target Nusra without hitting the   mainstream opposition. To that end, the US has demonstrated that   it is more willing to work on the Kremlin’s terms than on those   of the rebels. ” ”   Ultimately, many experts say, the opposition groups Russia has   relentlessly targeted since late September 2015 are the only   actors on the ground capable of challenging the influence Nusra   is trying to cultivate among Syria’s Sunni Arab population.   Accommodating Moscow’s demands in the war, then,  that is more likely to serve   Nusra’s interests than those of the US. ” ”   Nusra’s rise has boxed Washington into a  : To coordinate   with Russia against Nusra would be to legitimize Assad’s rule,   fuel Al Qaeda’s narrative, and ensure the continuation of the   war. To spare Nusra and increase support for the opposition, on   the other hand, would infuriate the regime and its allies and   lead them to double down on the battlefield. ” ’   Emile Hokayem, a Middle East expert at the International   Institute for Strategic Studies, said on Twitter that Obama’’s   proposal to coordinate with the Russians was likely to have   ”adverse consequences galore.” ’ ’   ”Obama resisted entanglement in Syria only to embrace   entanglement   Russia there, probably making everything worse.   Do Kerry and the geniuses at the White House realize that   coordinated bombing of Nusra under current circumstances will   actually benefit Nusra?” he wrote, referring to Secretary of   State John Kerry. ’ ’  ’ ”   Some members of the Syrian opposition, however, believe Obama has   prioritized US national security  —   which he believes requires   weakening Nusra in the short term  —   over the   effect   it may have on Syria’s revolution. ” ’   ”The US has info that Nusra is trying to do something against US   national interests   …     somewhere in the world, and they are taking   it very seriously,” a Syrian opposition member  on Tuesday. ”And accordingly, they offered to   Russia to work with them on that issue, to weaken and defeat   Nusra, with the condition that Russia and the regime should   respect the cessation and allow food and material to come into   Syria.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Experts have scoffed at the administration’s hope that it can get   concessions for Syrian rebels and civilians, such as more   pressure on the regime to stop bombing civilian targets and to   ground its air force, by agreeing to share intelligence with   Moscow. ” ”   That is especially difficult, they say, given the US’s lack of   leverage in Syria and its demonstrated unwillingness to hold   Russia or the regime accountable for their repeated attacks on   civilian targets and rebel groups backed by the West. ” ’   ”Russia has positioned itself militarily to guarantee that any   unilateral US military action against the regime seriously risks   at least a great power shooting match over Syria, if not an   apocalyptic nuclear war,” journalist Sam Heller  late last month. ’ ’   Heller added: ”America is currently unwilling to test Russia and   directly press the regime militarily, leaving it to Russia to   ensure its allies’’ compliance with the cessation of hostilities   and deliver their   for a political settlement.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Analysts are divided over how wedded Moscow really is to an Assad   regime in Syria. Some say the Russians don’t care as much as the   Iranians about keeping Assad in power as long as the war is   settled on the Kremlin’s terms. Others, however, contend that the   idea that Russia would work with the Syrian government to keep   state institutions intact while transitioning Assad out betrays a   fundamental misunderstanding of how Syria works. ” ’   ”There is no regime without Assad, so if the Obama administration   ever believed the Russians and the Iranians when they said they   would try to transition Assad out, they were living in a   fantasy,” Middle East expert Tony Badran, a research fellow at   the Foundation for Defense of Democracies,  in October. ”If you take Assad out, the   whole system collapses.” ’ ’   For the US to propose a working relationship with Russia, then,   is ultimately bound to entrench Assad, whose continued survival   gives Nusra a revolutionary purpose with which rebels and   civilians can identify. ’ ’   ”By proclaiming itself specifically as a revolutionary movement   fundamentally opposed to the Assad regime, Al Qaeda has sealed   its future in part to that of Bashar ” Lister wrote in a   briefing for the Middle East Institute in March, just after Assad   and his allies recaptured the ancient city of Palmyra from the   Islamic State. ”Should one remain, the other will invariably   survive also.” ’