’  ’ ’   US Attorney General Loretta Lynch on Wednesday said no charges   would be brought against Hillary Clinton for her use of a private   email server as secretary of state, according to Reuters. ’ ”   Lynch’s decision came  FBI Director James Comey said his agency would   not recommend charges against Clinton, the presumptive Democratic   nominee for president. ” ’   The attorney general indicated last week that she would accept   the FBI’s recommendation, after an impromptu  between her and former President Bill Clinton   drew outrage and accusations of a conflict of interest. ’ ’     ”Late this afternoon, I met with FBI Director James Comey and     career prosecutors and agents who conducted the investigation     of Secretary Hillary Clinton’’s use of a personal email system     during her time as secretary of state. I received and accepted     their unanimous recommendation that the thorough, yearlong     investigation be closed and that no charges be brought against     any individuals within the scope of the investigation.”   ’ ”   Clinton campaign press secretary Brian Fallon was quick to claim   victory  after Lynch’s announcement. ” ’   ”With the AG accepting Director Comey’’s recommendation, this case   is resolved, no matter Republicans’’ attempts to continue playing   politics,” Fallon posted. ’ ’   In his surprise press conference on Tuesday, Comey gave a   scathing critique of Clinton’’s email practices, saying her   ”extremely careless” behavior could have allowed ”hostile actors”   to gain access to classified information. Nevertheless, he said   her behavior did not meet the threshold used to prosecute past   violators who acted similarly. ’ ’   ”Our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a   case,” Comey said. ’ ’  ’ ”   Speaking to concerns that Clinton’s private servers could have   been hacked at some point, the director noted that investigators   found no evidence of a breach. ” ”   Comey said investigators did find various classified emails on   Clinton’s email system, contradicting Clinton’s earlier   assertions that she traded no such information at the time of her   service. ” ’   Comey will  on Thursday, and Lynch is set to   testify before the House later this month. ’ ’   Clinton first acknowledged in March 2015 that she used private   email servers to conduct government business while she was   secretary of state under President Barack Obama from 2009 to   2013. The federal investigation into the matter began in August. ’ ’ Maxwell Tani contributed to this report. ’