’  ’ ’   Fox News CEO Roger Ailes denied accusations of sexual harassment   and slammed the host who  in a statement released Wednesday   evening. ’ ’   Former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson filed the lawsuit against   Ailes following a decision not to renew her contract. ’ ’   In a  Carlson’’s attorneys said the former host of   ”The Real Story With Gretchen Carlson” was fired by the network   after she ”rebuffed Mr. Ailes sexual advances” and challenged   what she perceived as unequal treatment of women in the   workplace. ’ ’   Ailes called these allegations ”false.” ’ ’   ”This is a retaliatory suit for the network’s decision not to   renew her contract, which was due to the fact that her   disappointingly low ratings were dragging down the afternoon   lineup,” Ailes said in a statement provided to Business   Insider. ”When Fox News did not commence any negotiations to   renew her contract, Ms. Carlson became aware that her career with   the network was likely over and conveniently began to pursue a   lawsuit.” ’ ’’ ’   Carlson  that she was no longer with Fox   News. In a press release about her lawsuit, Carlson’’s   representatives said Ailes told her last year: ”I think you and I   should have had a sexual relationship a long time ago and then   you’’d be good and better and I’’d be good and better.” ’ ’   The release also alleged that Ailes called Carlson a ”man hater.” ’ ’   Ailes also noted that Carlson praised and thanked him in her   . ’ ’   ”Ironically, FOX News provided her with more   opportunities   over her 11 year tenure than any other employer in the industry,   for which she thanked me in her recent book,” Ailes said in the   statement. ”This defamatory lawsuit is not only offensive, it is   wholly without merit and will be defended vigorously.” ’ ’   21st Century Fox also pushed back on the Carlson lawsuit in   a statement Wednesday evening, defending both Ailes and ”Fox   & Friends”   Steve Doocy, who was also referenced in   lawsuit documents. Before she got her own show, Carlson was also   a   on ”Fox & Friends.” ’ ’   ”The Company has seen the allegations against Mr. Ailes and Mr.   Doocy,” the Fox statement said. ”We take these matters seriously.   While we have full confidence in Mr. Ailes and Mr. Doocy, who   have served the company brilliantly for over two decades, we have   commenced an internal review of the matter.” ’ ’   It is standard operating procedure for Fox to conduct an internal   review on any sexual harassment claim. ’ ’ Maxwell Tani contributed to this report. ’