’  ’ ’   With an estimated net worth of  Bill   Gates, the richest person on Earth, would need to add another   $925 billion to his fortune before becoming the first   trillionaire in history. ’ ”   As implausible as it may sound, one Silicon Valley entrepreneur   believes such an achievement isn’t just doable, but over the next   several decades, inevitable  —   and it won’t necessarily   be Gates who gets there. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I think it’’s going to take someone less like Gates and more like   Rockefeller,” he tells Tech Insider. ’ ’  ’ ”   John D. Rockefeller, who was lucky enough to fall into the     oil industry, largely preferred to sit on   his wealth rather than pay it forward. At his richest, the   tycoon  in today’s money. ” ’   The first billionaire could be a total unknown, Lord says,   or it could be someone like Elon Musk ”who hits four or five home   runs rather than one.” ’ ’   ”Someone is going to create something that no one has conceived   of before,” he says. And chances are, that something will produce   unprecedented levels of wealth for one person at the tippy top. ’ ’   Altman, for his part, believes technological innovation will   increase exponentially to the point where the people behind those   innovations will make hundreds of billions of dollars a year. ’ ’  ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ”   According to Credit Suisse’s  global wealth has more than   doubled since 2000, reaching an   high of $241   trillion. The analysis found there could be more than a   billion millionaires globally, or roughly 20% of the adult   population, within just two generations. ” ’   ”If this scenario unfolds,” the authors write, ”then billionaires   will be commonplace, and there is likely to be a few   trillionaires too  —   eleven according to our best estimate.” ’ ”   That’s right: There could be as many as 11 trillionaires walking   the planet within the next 50 years. ” ’   ”I think we just have to accept that there are going to be people   who have wildly more money than others,” Altman says. ”The   tradeoff of that is that I think we should guarantee a pretty   good standard of living for everybody, but this socialism ideal   that everyone should be totally equal  —   I don’’t think that’’s   going to work.” ’ ’   If the world is overflowing with money, most people will receive   a small portion of that wealth, ideally enough to create a   stable life should they choose to work or not, Altman   believes. And at the other end will be the   trillionaires.  ’