’  ’ ’   Philando Castile,  was   shot and killed by a police officer during a traffic   stop late Wednesday night.  ’ ’   In the only video evidence of the incident, a live Facebook   recording taken by Castile’’s girlfriend, Diamond ”Lavish”   Reynolds, she said the two were pulled over for a broken   taillight and that Castile told the officer he had a gun and was   reaching for his license and registration, as the officer   instructed. ’ ”   Still, the officer opened fire, ultimately leading to Castile’s   death later that night at a hospital. Police and state officials   haven’t yet confirmed what caused the traffic stop or whether   Castile was licensed to carry a weapon. ” ”   Castile’s family and others who mourned his death  that someone can do   what police apparently tell them  —   yet still face fatal   consequences at the hands of an officer. The video, however,   shows a bleeding and slumped over Castile in the driver’s seat   and unfortunately, not the exchange that led up to the   incident.  ” ’   Police will almost always want to separate the person from their   weapon, according to Chuck Drago,  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”T ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I’’ve always told my son: The key thing in order to try to   survive being stopped by the police is to comply. Whatever they   ask you to do  —   do it,” she said. ”Don’’t say nothing.   Just do whatever they want you to do. So what’’s the difference in   complying and you get killed anyway?” ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’he officer   can be heard shouting expletives and screaming of Castile, ”I   told him not to reach for it!” ’ ’   Reynolds responds: ”You told him to get his ID, sir  —   his   driver’’s license.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Officers are also judged in these cases on an objective standard,   laid out by another Supreme Court case,  according to Stoughton. ’ ’   ”We don’’t just ask what the officer perceived, but if what the   officer perceived was reasonable,” he said.  ’ ”   In his view, officers often times truly perceive a threat  —   but   that threat just isn’t reasonable, which can lead to   incidents like the one involving Castile.  ” ’   Many critics of police brutality and unreasonable use of force,   including those within the Black Lives Matter movement, argue   that police are more likely to perceive black men as threats   because of ingrained racism within forces and a . For example, prominent   activist  recently wrote that unarmed black men and boys are 700%   more likely to be shot and killed by police than their white   counterparts. ’