’  ’ ’   Police found   materials, ballistic vests, rifles,   ammunition, and a personal journal of combat tactics at the home   of the gunman who shot and killed five police officers during a   rally in downtown Dallas on Thursday night. ’ ’   The shooter,  died after an hourslong standoff   with police. Johnson has no criminal history and was not on any   FBI watch lists,  the Dallas Police Department   released Friday. ’ ’   ”Information provided through the course of the investigation,   indicates that the suspect was an Army veteran and others have   identified him as a loner,” the statement said. ’ ”   The statement also detailed the weapons found in Johnson’s home. ” ’   ”During the search of the suspect’’s home, detectives found bomb   making materials, ballistic vests, rifles, ammunition, and a   personal journal of combat tactics,” the statement said.   ”Detectives are in the process of analyzing the information   contained in the journal.” ’ ’   The Army  that Johnson served as an   enlisted soldier and served a tour of duty in Afghanistan. It   said Johnson was trained in the Army reserves as a     specialist. It was unclear what type of   firearms training he had. ’ ’   Police killed Johnson using a   bomb after   negotiations broke down during a standoff in a Dallas parking   garage. ’ ’   Johnson reportedly told police that he was ”upset about Black   Lives Matter” and that he ”wanted to kill white people.” ’ ’ ’ ”   Johnson’s Facebook page, which has since been taken down, seems   to corroborate what Dallas Police Chief David Brown described   about his anger toward white people. ” ’   The page featured images of Black Power, and the red, black and   green flag sometimes known as the Black Liberation flag,   according to Reuters. He appeared in his profile photo with a   raised fist in a Black Power salute, and posted an angry rant   against white people on July 2. ’ ’   ”Why do so many whites (not all) enjoy killing and participating   in the death of innocent beings,” Johnson wrote in the post in a   Facebook group called Black Panther Party Mississippi. ”Then they   all stand around and smile while their picture is taken with a   hung, burned and brutalized black person. They even go to our   homeland and shoot our endangered wildlife for sport.” ’ ”   The statement released by Dallas police also noted that Johnson’s   Facebook account reportedly referenced a member of the     group Public Enemy. ” ’ Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report. ’