’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON  —   Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg says she doesn’’t want to   think about the possibility of Donald Trump winning the White   House, and she predicts the next president  —   ”whoever she will   be”  —   will have a few appointments to make to the Supreme Court. ’ ’   In an interview Thursday in her court office, the      justice and leader of the court’’s liberal wing said she presumed   that Democrat Hillary Clinton would be the next president. Asked   what if Republican Donald Trump won instead, she said, ”I don’’t   want to think about that possibility, but if it should be, then   everything is up for grabs.” ’ ’   That includes the future of the high court itself, on which she   is the oldest justice. Two justices, Anthony Kennedy and Stephen   Breyer, are in their late 70s. ’ ’   ”It’’s likely that the next president, whoever she will be, will   have a few appointments to make,” Ginsburg said, smiling. ’ ”   She didn’t sound as though she is preparing to step down soon and   shows no signs of slowing down. Ginsburg said she has been   catching up on sleep since the court finished its work last week   before a busy summer of travel that will take her to Europe and,   as is her custom, to see as much opera as she can fit in. ” ’   In the   interview, Ginsburg reviewed the     term during which she lost her best friend on the court and,   partly as a result, was on the winning side of most of the     cases. Justice Antonin Scalia died in February,   depriving his conservative allies of a reliable vote and leaving   eight justices to decide nearly five dozen cases. ’ ”   President Barack Obama has nominated Judge Merrick Garland for   the ninth seat, but Senate Republicans have refused to hold a   hearing or vote on Garland’s nomination, arguing that the next   president should have the right to name Scalia’s replacement.   Even if the Senate were to confirm Garland after the election,   the court probably would hear three months of cases without him,   Ginsburg said. ” ”   And if there’s no action in a postelection,   session of   Congress, the vacancy could last the entire term, she said. ” ’  ’ ’   She said court majorities this term moved to shut down tactics   used by opponents of abortion and of affirmative action in higher   education in two major cases. ’ ”   Ginsburg said she didn’t expect to see any more such cases after   the court upheld the use of race in college admissions in Texas   and struck down Texas   regulations that the state   said were needed to protect patients. ” ’   ”It seemed to me it was a sham to pretend this was about a   woman’’s health,” rather than about making it harder to get an   abortion, Ginsburg said. ’ ’   She disputed reports that the court is taking on only relatively   unimportant cases while waiting for a ninth justice. ’ ’   ”It isn’’t so,” she said. ”We haven’’t selected them with a view to   dodging challenging cases. We take them as they come to us.” ’ ”   But she did suggest that the court probably would not take up a   major challenge to the death penalty anytime soon. She joined   Breyer’s opinion a year ago that called for considering outlawing   capital punishment. ” ’   ”There are only two votes so far to have asked for it, so I don’’t   think it’’s likely, if there is such a challenge, that it would   get four votes to grant cert,” she said, using court shorthand.   It takes four justices to vote to hear a case, or grant   certiorari. ’ ”   Looking back over the term’s cases, Ginsburg said Scalia’s death   essentially broke a tie in the affirmative action case, which   ended with a   decision in favor of Texas’ admissions plan.   Justice Elena Kagan did not take part because she earlier worked   on the case when she served in the Justice Department. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   She said she missed the colorful, outspoken Scalia, whom she   described as charming. ”The public got the wrong impression of   him,” she said. Among the many pictures and mementos in her   office is one of the two of them atop an elephant in India many   years ago. ’ ’   Without him, she said, the court is ”a paler place.” But she   thinks she and her colleagues did well to divide   in only four   cases, including one that effectively killed Obama’’s plan to help   millions of immigrants who are living in the country illegally. ’ ”   Another consequence of Scalia’s death was an increase in the   number of dissenting opinions written by Justice Clarence Thomas,   she said. Thomas wrote 18 dissents. Justice Sonia Sotomayor was   next, with eight. ” ’   ”Thomas always wrote a lot of dissents, but I think he was kind   of making up for Scalia not being here. He wrote so many,” she   said. ’