’  ’ ’   The week began with images of a black man sprawled  a victim of a   shooting critics say was another example of a quick     from police. ’ ’   In Minnesota the next night, the world watched a surreal live   Facebook recording of a  by a police officer during a traffic stop. ’ ’   The week ended with images of the deadliest single incident aimed   at police since the September 11, 2001, terror attacks on US   soil. A gunman killed at least five officers and wounded seven   others amid what had, to that point, been a peaceful protest of   the two previous incidents. ’ ”   Together, the three incidents further divided a nation   increasingly torn over racial issues amid national attention   on police shootings and the most divisive presidential campaign   in recent memory, featuring Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton as   their parties’ presumptive presidential nominees. ” ’   ”CIVIL WAR,”  of the New York Post.   The Drudge Report was quickly rebuked for a banner that said:   ”Black lives kill.” ’ ’   The week of bloodshed fueled both the broad fracture in the   country as well as calls for constructive solutions to change.   What route to take has now become a matter of national   urgency. ’ ’   The incidents stirred sentiments of past summers of historic   violence in America  —   1965 in Los Angeles, 1967 in Detroit and   Newark, and 1968, in which Martin Luther King, Jr. and Robert   Kennedy were assassinated, followed by brutal clashes at the   Democratic National Convention in Chicago.  ’ ’   Today, a  exposed   the burgeoning racial divides on issues like policing,   inequality, and racism. Black Americans are more likely than   white Americans to say black people are treated less fairly in a   variety of situations, from the workplace to restaurants.   Moreover, blacks (61%) are far more likely than whites (45%) to   say race relations are generally bad. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump, in an unusually measured statement, said   ”our  ’ ’   ” ’ ’   As these statements were made, police were still gathering facts   about each of the three incidents. In Dallas, David Brown,   the police chief, said a suspected gunman who was killed in a   standoff with police told them during unsuccessful negotiations   that he wanted to ”kill white people, especially white officers.” ’ ’   Police in  ’ ’  ’ ’   Brown spoke for his city, but also much of the nation, in a press   conference Friday. ’ ’   ” ’ ”   President Barack Obama, traveling in Poland for a NATO summit,   was twice in less than 12 hours forced to speak on the   horrific domestic incidents, as he carefully moved to navigate a   litany of different viewpoints about the country’s racial divide. ” ’   Late Thursday, he discussed the racial disparities in the US   justice system after the deaths of  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   He spoke to an American public whose political divisiveness has   gone hand in hand with the increased racial tensions. ’ ”   Those divisions have grown over the past decade, and they have   been exacerbated in a presidential campaign that has seen a major   party’s presumptive nominee make inflammatory statements about   Mexicans, Muslims, and other racial groups. Trump’s rallies   have seen . Critics have argued his words have spurred more   violence. ” ’   In general, according to the  people from each   political party view the other party with more antipathy now than   at any point in recent memory.  ’ ”   In just more than a week, Republicans will gather in Cleveland   for the Republican National Convention, to be followed by the   Democratic version the next week. Cleveland’s police, already   expecting a tense event full of protests, have already  in the wake of the Dallas   shooting to beef up security. ” ”   In the aftermath of the week’s violence, Attorney General Loretta   Lynch spoke to the mood of the nation. She urged its citizens to   take the better path. ” ’  ’ ’  ’