’  ’ ’   The world watched two black men in two different US cities   die at the hands of police this week. ’ ’   In the first incident, an  two Louisiana police   officers find a gun in the pocket of    Alton Sterling,   then while he was pinned to the ground, and shoot him in the   chest. ’ ’ shot by the owner of the store   where the incident occurred, later emerged. ’ ”   The next night, Philando Castile’s girlfriend  of the aftermath of   a traffic stop that ended with a Minnesota police   officer firing multiple shots into Castile’s arm. ” ”   While police and state officials haven’t confirmed many details,   Castile reportedly informed the officer of his concealed weapon   (for which he had a permit) and simply reached for   identification, as instructed. The  died later that night at   a local hospital. ” ’   Both incidents have fanned the flames of a national   debate about the use of force and apparent racial bias in   policing, and they have prompted renewed calls for better   policies. In an interview with CNN Friday afternoon, presumptive   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton hinted at her   plan for greater standardization in policing. ’ ’   ”As president, I would implement the very comprehensive set of   proposals that I’’ve been making for more than a year, including   we must do more to have national guidelines about the use of   force by police, especially deadly force,” she said. ”We need to   do more to look into implicit bias. And we need to do more to   respect and protect our police.” ’ ’   A general lack of effective training and uniformity within that   training, however, acts as a significant block to a more   peaceful future, many experts said. ’ ’   In fact, it’’s the ”biggest issue” facing police departments   today, Chuck Drago,  ’ ’  ’ ’   No national standards exist for the use of force, or   other policing tactics, for that matter. Pulling from various   Supreme Court cases, an officer is legally justified   using lethal force if the officer reasonably and   objectively fears the person will cause death or serious   injury to the officer, other officers, or the   public. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   These lower levels of force can include weapons less lethal than   guns, like Tasers and other kinds of stun guns, Drago said.   Effective communication can also negate the need for weapons.   Many police, however, may not feel as comfortable with these   methods and instead turn to their holsters, Drago   added ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Since the department instituted a shift to       complaints dropped 64% from 2009 to 2014,    to BuzzFeed     reporter,  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’There does seem   to be a bond between the police and the community.” ’ ’   With the lack of national policing standards, some organizations   attempt to at least monitor and unify how various state and   local departments create their individual policies.  ’ ’ (CALEA) for   example, bills itself as the ”  solution.” Through   joint efforts between elected officials, state Supreme Court   justices, police chiefs, academics, and others, CALEA reviews and   discusses police affairs in the US and creates standards   with which jurisdictions must comply to receive   accreditation with the organization. ’ ’   ”We tell the agencies what needs to be done. How they do that is   dictated by the community, the demographics, lots of   things,”  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ officer may use deadly   force only when the officer reasonably believes that the   action is in defense of human life, including the officer’’s   own life, or in defense of any person in imminent danger of   serious physical injury.” ’ ”   It’s similar to what Supreme Court cases have dictated,   although CALEA does establish more specific standards, such as   generally prohibiting warning shots and ensuring appropriate   medical aid.  ” ’   ”I think it would be great if CALEA would get some better defined   standards in some areas,” Stoughton said. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ”   In the US, accreditation doesn’t necessarily mean that   organizations won’t face problems or controversy, however. The   Dallas Police Department, for example, does not currently receive   accreditation through CALEA. And the Baton Rouge Police   Department, which was involved in Alton Sterling’s death,   does.  ” ”   Neither department responded to Business Insider’s requests for   comment. ” ’   Even better training, however, may not be able to address one of   the main complaints against police today: implicit, racially   tinged bias.  ’ ”   Police can use lethal force when they reasonably and objectively   fear for their or other’s safety.  ” ’   After the deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile,  Thursday night filled with disturbing   statistics about being black in America. ’ ’  ’ ’   Among those he offered: Last year,   were   shot by police at more than twice the rate of whites. ’ ”   Policies can’t control what happens in the heads and hearts   of police. But even some case law introduces the issue of   race, perhaps unintentionally disguised as poverty, into   discussions of crime and policing. ” ’   For example, a Supreme Court case from 2000, Illinois v.   Wardlow,   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’