’  ’ ’   A    yielded some unexpected results about racial bias in police   shootings. ’ ’   While black people are more likely than white people to be   touched, handcuffed, thrown against a wall, pushed to the ground,   and have weapons pointed at them by the police, the study found   no evidence of racial bias in situations where police fire their   guns at civilians. ’ ’   ”It is the most surprising result of my career,” Roland G. Freyer   Jr. the Harvard economist who authored the study, . ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSurprising new evidence shows racial bias in police use of    not in shootings.   ’ ’   Freyer and a group of students spent over 3, 000 hours sifting   through police data from 10 major police departments in three   states: Texas, Florida, and California. ’ ’   They examined 1, 332 shootings between 2000 and 2015. In those   shootings, the study found that police officers were more likely   to fire their weapons without having been attacked when the   suspects were white. Black and white civilians involved in police   shootings were also equally likely to have been carrying a gun. ’ ’   To answer the more basic question of whether shootings were more   likely to occur in the first place if the suspect were black,   Freyer and his team turned to Houston. The study examined police   reports of not only shootings, but also arrests in which lethal   force would have been justified, coded with characteristics like   attempting to murder an officer, evading or resisting arrest, or   using a Taser. ’ ”   In these charged encounters, police were 20% less likely to shoot   if the suspect was black. Even more surprisingly, the recent rise   in videos of these kinds of altercations didn’t alter the   pattern. ” ’   These findings starkly contrast much of the conventional wisdom   about racial bias in police shootings. ’ ’   The recent deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile at the   hands of police officers have renewed calls to address racial   discrimination in policing  —   and leaders from across the   political spectrum are acknowledge the existence and dangers of   bias. ’ ’   ”Would this have happened if . .. the driver and passenger were   white?” Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton asked at a  following the death of Philando Castile. ”I   don’’t think it would’’ve. So I’’m forced to confront, and I think   all of us in Minnesota are forced to confront that this kind of   racism exists.” ’ ’  ’ ’   President Barack Obama in a speech  including   the fact that last year,   were shot at by police   at twice the rate of whites. ’ ’   ”We have seen too many tragedies like this,” he said. ”These are   not isolated incidents.” ’ ’   In addition to the political rhetoric, previous analyses have   corroborated the theory that police are more likely to use force,   including lethal force, if the suspect is black. ’ ’   An  last year found that   over a period of about seven months, unarmed black men were seven   times more likely to be killed by police than unarmed white men.   And according to the  black people account for 24% of   deaths in police shootings, despite being only 13% of the   population. ’ ”   Freyer’s research seems to dispute these findings. But that   doesn’t necessarily mean public condemnation of racial bias in   policing is wrong  —   the study still found a much higher rate of   overall police force with black suspects than with white   suspects. ” ”   In fact, the reported lack of racial bias in police shootings   only accounts for a small slice of interactions with the police   in which race usually does play a role. For example, black people   are  to be stopped by the   police in the first place  —   a variable Freyer’s study did not   consider, as Vox pointed out. ” ”   The study also only looked at certain cities  —   the cities with   police departments that were willing to share their records. It’s   possible that cities with more damning data were not represented   in the research. The records are also tied to the accuracy of the   police reports, which video evidence has directly contrasted in   the past, according to . ” ’   The study itself acknowledges that black people face   discrimination in police interactions on the whole. In New York   City police stops, for example, they were 17% more likely to   encounter use of any type of police force. ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tUse of lethal force by police shows no racial bias, to researchers’ surprise.   ” ”   Freyer has spent his career studying racial disparities in a   number of areas. He was inspired to study police bias after the   deaths of Michael Brown and Freddie Gray. Even in the midst of   his findings, he acknowledged black men’s experience with the   police. ” ’   ”Who the hell wants to have a police officer put their hand on   them or yell and scream at them? It’’s an awful experience,” he   told The Times. ”I’’ve had it multiple, multiple times. Every   black man I know has had this experience.” ’