’  ’ ’   Donald Trump has made up his deficit against Hillary Clinton in a   series of new polls of battleground states, swinging to leads in   Florida and Pennsylvania and a tie in Ohio. ’ ’   The new set of  released   Wednesday, found the presumptive Republican presidential nominee   in a dead heat with Clinton in the three states, a slight change   from similar Quinnipiac University polls conducted last month. ’ ”   Clinton’s biggest drop was in Florida, where last month she led   Trump by 8 points. In Wednesday’s poll of the state, Trump   garnered 42% support to Clinton’s 39%  —   within the poll’s   3.  margin of error. ” ”   Wednesday’s poll of Pennsylvania voters found Trump with 43%   support to Clinton’s 41%  —   a slight change from last month’s   poll, which found the former secretary of state leading Trump by   1 point. The candidates remained tied in Ohio for the second   month in a row. ” ’   A slew of   Street   College   surveys released later Wednesday painted a slightly   different picture in Pennsylvania, where a poll showed Trump   trailing Clinton by 9 points. But the two were tied in Ohio, and   Clinton led Trump by just 3 points in Iowa, according to the   polls. ’ ’’ ’   ”Donald Trump enters the Republican convention on a small roll in   the three most important swing states in the country,” Quinnipiac   University polling director Peter A. Brown  ”He has wiped out Hillary   Clinton’’s lead in Florida, is on the upside of   to call   races in Florida and Pennsylvania, and is locked in a dead heat   in Ohio.” ’ ”   Though the Quinnipiac polls was conducted partially before   FBI Director James Comey’s  Brown pointed out that   survey respondents had begun to see Trump as more honest and   trustworthy. ” ’   ”While there is no definite link between Clinton’’s drop in   Florida and the US Justice Department decision not to prosecute   her for her handling of emails, she has lost ground to Trump on   questions which measure moral standards and honesty,” Brown said. ’ ”   Not all the news in Wednesday’s polls was bad for Clinton. The   polls showed that voters found her to be more intelligent and   prepared to be president by wide margins. ” ’   Some analysts caution against reading too far into early     polls, pointing out that the lack of many state polls   several months out from the election can provide the illusion of   a volatile race. ’ ’   ”Generally, it would be ideal to watch battlegrounds such as    ”   However, state polls are sparse. This year’’s states are   mostly correlated with 2012, so there’’s no realignment. This   means that watching national numbers is probably a reasonable   substitute.” ’