’  ’ ’   ROME  —   Convicted Cosa Nostra ”boss of bosses” Bernardo   Provenzano, who reputedly led the Mafia’’s powerful Corleone clan,   died Wednesday, a decade after his capture in Sicily following   decades of hiding in the countryside, a lawyer said. ’ ”   In recent years, Provenzano, 83, had been held under strict   security measures at a Milan hospital. The lawyer Rosalba Di   Gregorio had cited Provenzano’s increasing physical frailty and   mental infirmity in several failed attempts to persuade     prosecutors to ease the prison conditions intended to   prevent mobsters from wielding power from behind bars. ” ’   The reputed ”capo dei capi,” or top boss, was arrested in 2006   after 43 years as a fugitive. He had been convicted in absentia   of more than a dozen murders as well as of being part of the   Mafia’’s leadership who ordered the 1992 bombings that, in   separate attacks, killed Sicily’’s top two     investigators, Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino. He was also   convicted of being a mastermind behind Mafia bombings in 1993 in   Rome, Milan, and Florence, including one attack near the Uffizi   art gallery. ’ ”   Provenzano was also convicted of being among those giving the   order for the 1982 murder in Palermo of Carabinieri Gen. Carlo   Alberto Dalla Chiesa, who had been dispatched to the Sicilian   capital by the Italian government to lead the state’s uphill war   against the Mafia. ” ’   While young, Provenzano received the nickname ”The Tractor” for   determination displayed in a mob career that began as a hitman.   He was believed to have taken over the leadership of the Sicilian   crime syndicate after the 1993 arrest of a fellow longtime   fugitive boss, Salvatore ”Toto” Riina. ’ ’   While in charge, investigators say, Provenzano helped the Mafia   dig its tentacles deeper into the lucrative world of public works   contracts in Sicily, turning the mob into more of a     industry of illegal activity, lessening its dependence on   traditional   like drug trafficking and extortion. ’ ’  ’ ’   He essentially thumbed his nose at authorities, who were trying   to hunt down a man whose last photo was a   young   man, in a jacket and tie, hair brushed back from a broad   forehead, taken decades earlier. ’ ’   The man who had for years been Italy’’s No. 1 fugitive was   betrayed not by an informer or a rival mobster but by clean   laundry. The police had tracked a package of clothes to a   farmhouse on the outskirts of Corleone, the hilltop town that had   inspired the fictional crime family name in ”The Godfather.” ’ ”   The police had noticed the package leave his wife’s house in   Corleone then be delivered to a series of addresses until it   finally was driven to the farmhouse. When someone put a hand   through the door to take in the laundry, the police swept in,   nabbing Provenzano, who had been living in the farmhouse with a   shepherd who doubled as his housekeeper. ” ”   In his decades on the run, Provenzano had counted on Sicilians’     mistrust of the state to help him, as he slept in   islanders’ homes. His children were born in local hospitals. He   even sent the national public healthcare system a bill for   prostate treatment he had abroad under a false name. ” ’   Investigators said Provenzano gave his henchmen orders with   written notes  —   not trusting phone conversations for fear of   being monitored by the police. The notes, found at the farmhouse   along with a typewriter Provenzano was believed to have used to   write them, later became the basis of a book by Sicilian     author Andrea Camilleri. ’ ’   ___ ’ ”   Frances D’Emilio is on twitter at www. twitter.  ”