’  ’ ’   China says a declaration it made a decade ago should have   prevented the Permanent Court of Arbitration from ruling on the   South China Sea disputes, and also justified Beijing’s decision   not to take part in the Hague  proceedings. ’ ’   Even though the decision to  ignore the tribunal’s ruling has   raised questions about Beijing’s respect for international law,    China insisted the international tribunal had no jurisdiction to    decide the case. ’ ’   Beijing’s main argument, presented in a series of official   statements between 2014 and the  release of a white paper   yesterday, is that the South China Sea  disputes are inseparable   from sovereignty issues. ’ ’   As such, the issues were  beyond the scope of the United Nations   Convention of the Law of the Sea  (Unclos) which the tribunal   referred to in its ruling delivered on Tuesday. ’ ’   The official documents from Beijing stated that the tribunal,   formed under the convention, had no jurisdiction to decide issues   of sovereignty. ’ ’   In a lengthy article released by Xinhua after the ruling, China   said it released a written declaration in 2006 that said disputes   concerning maritime delimitation and other issues should not be   settled through compulsory procedures without its agreement. ’ ’   But the tribunal still accepted the case and declared its own   jurisdiction over the issue. ’ ’   Despite saying in the ruling it did not decide on sovereignty and   maritime delimitation, the tribunal did determine whether the   land features in the disputed waters were islands or not, and   commented on some of China’s law enforcement activities in the   waters. ’ ’  ’ ’   Legal experts said such decisions touched on sovereignty issues. ’ ’   “It is the terrestrial territorial situation that must be taken   as a starting point for the determination of the maritime rights   of a coastal state,” Chris Whomersley, a former deputy legal   adviser to the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, said in a   recent article. ’ ’   It seemed unprecedented for an international tribunal to consider   the status of a feature when the territorial sovereignty over   that feature was disputed, he added. ’ ’   In its ruling, the tribunal  declared that Mischief Reef was a     elevation not capable of appropriation by occupation. ’ ’   John Mo, chair professor of law at the University of Macau, said   the question about appropriation clearly concerned whether     elevations were subject to claims of territorial   sovereignty. ’ ’   “Whatever the tribunal decides, it is logically contradicted,” he   said. ’ ’   The other argument cited by Beijing is a document signed with the   10 Asean nations in 2002, which stipulates that territorial   disputes should be resolved through bilateral negotiations. ’ ’   The Philippines claimed it had used up all other negotiation   means by presenting to the tribunal exchanges with China since   1995. Manila said the Asean document was not a legally binding   agreement, but only an “aspirational political document”. ’ ’   China disputed that the previous consultations were never about   the disputes of the arbitration. Beijing also accused the    Benigno Aquino administration of not responding to its constant   requests for talks. ’