’  ’ ’   Turkey’’s president Recep Erdogan called Friday night’’s  by a faction within the Turkish   military ”an act of treason,” and vowed that the     would ”pay a heavy price” for their actions. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ” a   senior fellow at the Washington Institute, echoed Bremmer’s   prediction. ” ’  ’ ’     ’ ’ Over the past year,   however, Erdogan has attempted to significantly expand his   presidential powers in the wake of roughly 14 terrorist attacks   on Turkish soil. ’ ’   ”Never before in this system has one person amassed so much power   in his hands as Erdogan has,” Soner Cagaptay, director of   the Turkish Research Program at the Washington Institute for Near   East Policy, told  in May. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Davutoglu’’s ”ambivalence” about a proposed change to Turkey’’s   constitution that would ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’     ”Turkey’s government and military have appeared       allies in recent years. In 2014, a Turkish court released     scores of senior military officials jailed in the Ergenekon     coup plot trial, a case which formerly helped Erdogan’s ruling     Justice and Development Party (AKP) reign in the power of the     military. And earlier this year, Turkey’s Supreme Court of     Appeals overturned all convictions in the Ergenekon case,     ruling that the alleged shadowy network never existed at all.”   ’ ’   Blaser noted that Ankara has given the military virtually   ”free reign” to battle insurgents linked to the Kurdistan   Workers’’ Party (PKK) in the southeast when a peace treaty broke   down in   granting them ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Erdogan has shown he is ”willing to spurn even his closest of AKP   allies” in the name of amending the constitution and   strengthening his executive authority,  ’ ’  ’ ’   Even so, Erdogan was democratically elected, and mass protests   against the military coup on the streets of Istanbul and Ankara   late Friday night and early Saturday morning showed that Turkish   citizens still prefer his government to a military takeover. ’ ’   ’ ’   Even if they viewed Erdogan as a lesser evil than the military,   however, Turkish citizens are evidently aware of how   their country got to this point.  ’ ”   “Turkey has been polarized and brought to the brink of war by one   man, Erdogan,” Halil Aktas, a protester who had taken to   Istanbul’s Taksim Square, . “This will not continue a single day   more. ” ”