’  ’ ”   There’s been some good news out of Libya recently. ” ”   In the beginning of July, Libya’s two rival oil   companies  —   the National Oil Corp. based in the western   city in Tripoli, and its eastern counterpart, which sits in   Tobruk  —   .  ” ”   It’s a complicated deal because of Libya’s complicated   government.  at the time that the   company will be moved to Benghazi in the east, something   that the eastern side wanted, and will now report to the   unity government in Tripoli and the parliament based in the East. ” ”   Then a few days later, the leader of Libya’s  Ibrahim Jathran,  plans to resume exports from ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Theoretically speaking, this is all a positive sign for a   country that’s seen over a million barrels a day of oil shut in   amid  challenges over the last year, keeping   production stagnating around 330, 000 to 400, 000 barrels a   day.    As a reference point here, although Libya has the  its   production was the  among OPEC members. ” ’   However, both geopolitical watchers and market analysts have   adopted a cautious posture in response to all the news, citing   ongoing political and security issues, past events, and possible   infrastructure damage. ’ ’   ”While [the Jathran news] has led to speculation that the   country’s output could quickly increase, historical evidence   leads us to be more cautious,” wrote RBC Capital Markets’’ Helima   Croft in a note to clients on Thursday. ’ ’   ”Jathran’s pledge of loyalty to the GNA government has led to   speculation that the country’’s output could quickly double from   around 350  . It should be noted that Jathran has made similar   promises in the past, only to change his mind,” she explained. ’ ’   Moreover, she argued that even if Jathran doesn’’t reverse   course, her team is ”c ’ ’  ’ ’   Notably, there were also several reports about  a  ago. ’ ’   And this past week,  ’ ’,” argued a BMI Research team in a note   on Thursday.  ’ ’   ” .” ’ ”   Plus, both Croft and the BMI team noted that ISIS   remains a risk, despite the group’s . ” ’  ’ ’     As an endnote, one interesting thing about the recent     developments in Libya is that markets more or less yawned     off the news.    ’ ’     ”” a ’ ’   ’ ’  ’