’  ’ ”      —   At the height of the attempt to overthrow   Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the rebel pilots of two     fighter jets had Erdogan’s plane in their sights. And yet he   was able to fly on. ” ”   The Turkish leader was returning to Istanbul from a holiday near   the coastal resort of Marmaris after a faction in the military   launched the coup attempt on Friday night, sealing off a bridge   across the Bosphorus, trying to capture Istanbul’s main airport   and sending tanks to parliament in Ankara. ” ’   ”At least two   harassed Erdogan’’s plane while it was in the   air and en route to Istanbul. They locked their radars on his   plane and on two other   protecting him,” a former military   officer with knowledge of the events told Reuters. ’ ’   ”Why they didn’’t fire is a mystery,” he said. ’ ’   A successful overthrow of Erdogan, who has ruled the country of   about 80 million people since 2003, could have sent Turkey   spiraling into conflict and marked another seismic shift in the   Middle East, five years after the Arab uprisings erupted and   plunged its southern neighbor Syria into civil war. ’ ”   A senior Turkish official confirmed to Reuters that Erdogan’s   business jet had been harassed while flying from the airport that   serves Marmaris by two   commandeered by the coup plotters   but that he had managed to reach Istanbul safely. ” ’   A second senior official also said the presidential jet had been   ”in trouble in the air” but gave no details. ’ ’   Erdogan said as the coup unfolded that the plotters had tried to   attack him in the resort town of Marmaris and had bombed places   he had been at shortly after he left. He ”evaded death by   minutes,” the second official said. ’ ’   About 25 soldiers in helicopters descended on a hotel in Marmaris   on ropes, shooting, just after Erdogan had left in an apparent   attempt to seize him, broadcaster CNN Turk said. ’ ’   Prime Minister Binali Yildirim had also been directly targeted in   Istanbul during the coup bid and had narrowly escaped, the   official said, without giving details. ’ ”     websites showed a Gulfstream IV aircraft, a type   of business jet owned by the Turkish government, take off from   Dalaman airport, which is about an hour and a quarter’s drive   from Marmaris, at about 10:40 p. m. GMT on Friday. ” ’   It later circled in what appeared to be a holding pattern just   south of Istanbul, around the time when a Reuters witness in the   airport was still hearing bursts of gunfire, before finally   coming in to land. ’ ’  ’ ’   Gunfire and explosions rocked both Istanbul and Ankara through   Friday night, as the armed faction that tried to seize power   strafed the headquarters of Turkish intelligence and Parliament   in the capital. At one point it ordered state television to read   out a statement declaring a nationwide curfew. ’ ’   But the attempt crumbled as forces loyal to Erdogan pushed the   rebels back and as the Turkish leader, at one point appearing on   the broadcaster CNN Turk in a video call from a mobile phone,   urged people to take to the streets to support him. ’ ’   More than 290 people were killed in the violence, 104 of them   coup supporters, the rest largely civilians and police officers. ’ ’   The aerial aspect of the plot appears to have centered on the   Akinci air base about 30 miles northwest of Ankara, with at least   15 pilots involved under the orders of a rebel commander,   according to the former military officer. ’ ’   The head of the armed forces, Hulusi Akar, was held hostage at   the base during the coup attempt but was eventually rescued. Jets   from Akinci piloted by the rebels roared low over Istanbul and   Ankara repeatedly during the chaos of Friday night, shattering   windows and terrifying civilians with sonic booms. ’ ’   Fighter jets taking off from another air base at Eskisehir, west   of Ankara, were scrambled to bomb Akinci and try to stop the   rebels. The rogue aircraft were able to keep flying through the   night, however, by refueling midair after a tanker plane was   commandeered, the first senior official said. ’ ’   The tanker aircraft was taken from the Incirlik air base in   southern Turkey, which is used by the   coalition to bomb   Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. The commander of Incirlik was   detained on Sunday for complicity, the official said. ’ ’   Three senior officials in Ankara said Akin Ozturk, head of the   air force until 2015 and a member of High Military Council, or   YAS, the top body overseeing the armed forces, was one of the   masterminds of the plot. He was among thousands of soldiers   detained, pictured on Sunday in handcuffs wearing a striped polo   shirt at Ankara police headquarters. ’ ”   Ozturk was due to be retired this August at a meeting of the YAS,   which convenes twice a year. According to his biography, still on   the military’s website, he was born in 1952. ” ’   The second mastermind was thought to be Muharrem Kose, a former   legal adviser to the chief of military staff, the same three   Ankara officials said. They described Kose as a follower of   Fethullah Gulen, a   cleric whose network Erdogan has   blamed for carrying out the coup attempt. ’ ’   Kose was removed from his post in March for misconduct but had   not been discharged from the armed forces, one of the officials   said. His whereabouts are unknown. ’ ’   ”There were serious preparations ongoing for a very long time.   The two people in question seem to have been the brains behind   the coup attempt,” the official said, declining to be identified   because the investigation is still continuing. ’ ’   Erdogan and the government have long accused Gulen’’s followers of   trying to create a ”parallel structure” within the courts,   police, armed forces and media with the aim of seizing power, a   charge the cleric has repeatedly denied. ’ ’  ’ ’   Erdogan, his roots in Islamist politics, has always had a   difficult relationship with the military, which long saw itself   as the guardian of secularism in Turkey, carrying out three coups   and forcing a fourth,   government from power in the   second half of the 20th century. ’ ’   Coup plot trials saw hundreds of officers jailed while Erdogan   was prime minister, as the government used the courts to clip the   wings of the armed forces. The allegations were later discredited   and convictions overturned, but the actions damaged morale and   fueled resentment. ’ ’   Yet the coup plotters appear to have overestimated the support   they would find within the military ranks. ’ ’   ”It was outside the chain of command, which was the biggest   handicap for the coup plotters,” said Sinan Ulgen, a visiting   scholar at Carnegie Europe and a former Turkish diplomat. ’ ’   ”They had an insufficient portfolio of resources. They were   grossly underequipped to achieve their strategic objectives . ..   There was definitely quite a degree of incompetence compared to   how coups were done here in the past.” ’ ’   At one point they tried to silence CNN Turk, forcing the   evacuation of the studio. When it came back on air, anchorwoman   Nevsin Mengu described the soldiers as young and with ”only fear   in their eyes and no sign of devotion or determination.” ’ ’   The former military officer said the coup plotters appeared to   have launched their attempt prematurely because they realized   they were under surveillance, something corroborated by other   officials in Ankara. ’ ’   ”They weren’’t fully prepared,” the   said. ”The plans   were leaked, they found out they were being monitored, and it all   apparently forced them to move faster than planned.” ’ ”   They also underestimated Erdogan’s ability to rally the crowds,   his appeal for supporters to take to the streets bringing people   out in Istanbul, Ankara, and elsewhere even as tanks took to the   streets and jets screamed overhead. ” ’   Sertac Koc, press adviser to the mayor of Kazan district where   the Akinci base is located, said local residents started noticing   the high number of jets taking off as events unfolded. ’ ’   ”When they saw jets hitting Parliament in Ankara and people in   Istanbul, they got organized among themselves and marched to the   base to try and stop them,” he told Reuters by phone. ’ ’   ”They tried to block traffic to the base by parking their   vehicles, burning hay to block the jets’’ vision, and in the end   they attempted to cut the power to the base,” he said. ’ ”   Seven people were killed when the rebel soldiers opened fire, Koc   said, among the dozens of civilians killed across the country in   one of Turkey’s worst nights of bloodshed. ” ’   (Additional reporting by Tom Miles in Geneva, Paul Taylor in   Brussels; Writing by Nick Tattersall; editing by David Stamp) ’