’  ’ ”   There’s a category of women that often fly under the radar in the   modeling and clothing industries. ” ”   In a recent story,  points out that these women are not   truly plus size, but they’re not thin (or a sample size) either.   Oddly, Racked notes, there’s plenty of women who actually look   like   women  —   they’re not curvy supermodels and   they’re not waifs. ” ”   They’re often told they have to pick a side, or lose weight to   have a career. ” ” was told if she wanted to   be a model she’d have to lose weight  —   though she ultimately   decided to accept her body type and be a plus size model. ” ’ told   Business Insider how she was dropped from an agency for being   ”too big”  —   but since embracing her curves, she’’s become a poster   woman for body positivity. ’ ”   For whatever reason, though, the media doesn’t seem to want to   see depictions of reality.  They only want to see what they   believe are the two types of female bodies that exist  —   when,   obviously, there are many. ” ’   To illustrate this, Racked points to a humorous anecdote   from Mindy Kaling’’s book, ”Is Everybody Hanging out With   Me:” ’ ’   And when a curvy model who’’s on the smaller side of the spectrum   is touted as a ”plus” size model, there’’s often lots of backlash    —   in part, because it’’s not an accurate representation of what   ”plus size” really is, and also, because it suggests that there’’s   a need to lump women into a category, that simply having a body   isn’’t enough. ’ ’   Racked, for instance, points to how when Robyn Lawley appeared in   Sports Illustrated, consumers were  ’ ’   And when Calvin Klein featured model Maya Dalbesio in a   campaign in 2014, . Though the company said   she was a size 10,  noted she was a closer to   an 8. Either way, people weren’’t happy to see that she was being   grouped in the ”plus” category. If the  then   that would make her below average. ’ ”   Popular Gen Z model (and Kylie Jenner’s best friend) Jordyn Woods   has said that people above size eight can get lumped into the   plus size category, simply because there’s a need to justify why   someone who isn’t  . ” ’   ” ’ ’  ’ ”   All of this translates to the industry: there’s a clear   segmentation between ’plus’ and ’straight size,’ It creates   a mentality that there are two camps of women, rather than a   seamless blur between how human bodies can differentiate from one   another. ” ”   In turn, this can turn off plus size, women too  —   a foolish thing   to do, considering that according to industry research   firm NPD Group (via ) it’s a $20. 4 billion category. ” ’   Some retailers are trying to fight this by either remove. In   October, online retailer ModCloth tried to ameliorate that   problem by .  ’ ’   And experts believe that it would behoove retailers to include   more sizes  —   including plus sizes  —   in their imagery, too,   because it could pay off. ..literally (which should be   particularly enticing considering how many people ).  ’