’  ’ ’   In the   Mexican state of Chihuahua, home of border   city Ciudad Juarez, a once powerful kingpin has reportedly   reappeared. ’ ’   According to Mexican military and government sources, the recent   appearance of large drug shipments and a spike in violence in the   area are the result of the reemergence of one of the most   powerful figures on Mexico’’s narco landscape: Rafael Caro   Quintero, the ”” and one of the US Drug   Enforcement Administration’’s most wanted men. ’ ”   There are conflicting reports about Caro Quintero’s movements,   but rumors of his return add a new wrinkle to an already complex   criminal landscape.  ” ’   Caro Quintero was part of a trio of   kingpins who   dominated Mexican drug trafficking in the 1980s through the   Guadalajara cartel, which eventually spawned the Sinaloa cartel   and Juarez cartel, among others. ’ ’   Their decision to kidnap, torture, and kill undercover DEA agent   Enrique ”Kiki” Camarena in 1985, however, brought the full force   of the US government down on them, spurring a manhunt that even   their network of corruption and influence could not halt. ’ ’   He was soon captured and sentenced to 40 years in prison, to be   served in Mexico. But he was freed in 2013, after just 28 years.   ”The argument was that according to their laws, he, Caro   Quintero, should’’ve been tried in state court, because for the   most part homicides fall under state jurisdiction,” Mike Vigil, a   former DEA chief of international operations who worked in   Mexico, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”And they released him at like 3 o’’clock in the morning, and   after he fled into the darkness, then the supreme court came back   and overrode . .. the court of appeals, and said, ’’No, it was   proper,’’ because Kiki Camarena was a bona fide federal agent,”   meaning it was legitimate to try Caro Quintero in federal court,   Vigil added. ’ ’  ’ ’   Caro Quintero has remained at large for nearly three years,   until events in recent weeks led Mexican authorities to report   that he was back, possibly joining with new allies to attack   erstwhile compatriots. ’ ’   ”We have information that he intends to come here,” Jorge   González, Chihuahua state attorney general,  last week.  ’ ’   Caro Quintero ”has wishes to occupy the spaces of the Sinaloa   cartel and dispute [those spaces] with them,” González . ”This is the theory that is had today   with intelligence data and that is what we are working on.” ’ ” to González, citing information   from military sources, and to Mexican news magazine  Caro Quintero has joined with   elements of the Beltran Leyva Organization, a former Sinaloa   cartel ally that broke with Guzmán in 2008, and with members of   the Jalisco New Generation cartel, which is generally considered   to be the Sinaloa cartel’s only rival in terms of power. ” ”   It was with these new allies that Caro Quintero reportedly    the recent  in   Sinaloa state’s Badiraguato municipality (where Caro Quintero is   also from) and with whom he intends to challenge the Sinaloa   cartel’s control in Chihuahua and the Golden Triangle, a     production area that also includes parts of Sinaloa and   Durango states. ” ’  ’ ’   A narcomanta  —   a banner used by cartels to make an   announcement  —   that  allegedly   signed by Caro Quintero, also announced his intention to begin a   ”cleansing” of the city and threatened González, telling him had   a week to resign. ’ ’   Jockeying between rival criminal groups seems to be confirmed by   rising violence in the city  —   16 homicides in the  of July, after a May that   saw  the killings recorded in   the same month last year.  ’ ’   ”He doesn’’t have the power to take over any of, like, the Sinaloa   cartel. He just doesn’’t have the muscles,” Vigil told Business   Insider. But, Vigil added, ”Rafael Caro Quintero is used to   enormous power. I think he’’s trying to carve out even a small   niche, take over possibly a state, where he can get back into the   business and maybe build up from there.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Other reports, however, indicate that Caro Quintero remains in   league with Guzmán and that the two are being challenged by   rivals. ’ ” to Mexico’s Center for   Investigation and National Security (CISEN) Caro Quintero    in the drug trade   during his time in prison, with Guzmán (who was himself   imprisoned from 1993 to 2001) acting as an intermediary for   the jailed kingpin. ” ”   Caro Quintero’s wife, who he met in prison, was recently  in his     activities by the US Treasury department. ” ”   According to CISEN sources cited by Reporte Indigo, Caro Quintero   reportedly  a leadership role in the Sinaloa   cartel after Guzmán’s recapture in January. ” ’   His current presence in Chihuahua is not to challenge the Sinaloa   cartel, but to  the position that cartel has   established in the state, particularly in the heavily trafficked   border city of Ciudad Juarez, where the Sinaloa cartel fought and   won a bloody turf war with the Juarez cartel between 2008 and   about 2012. ’ ’   The conflict in Chihuahua ”is a frontal fight that Rafael Caro   Quintero has begun to realize, through the cells of the Sinaloa   cartel, to halt the aspiration for control held by Isidro Meza   Flores,” said  cited by Reporte Indigo. ’ ’   Meza Flores, aka ”Chapito,” is a   trafficker who   remained with the BLO when it split from Guzmán’’s cartel in   2008 and . Caro Quintero’’s own childhood home, not far   from La Tuna, was  in that attack. ’ ’  ’ ’   Assuming that Caro Quintero is gunning for Guzmán, however, there   are some doubts about the extent of his ambitions. ’ ’   ”Why would [Caro Quintero] want to put a target on his back   and increase the probability of being recaptured and extradited   to the United States?” Mexican security analyst Alejandro Hope    in Mexican newspaper El   Universal.  ’ ’   ”It’’s one thing to get over on the authorities and something very   different to get over on the authorities and the Sinaloa cartel,”    who noted that the military   sources cited by González and others, and where those   sources got their information, remained unclear. ’ ’  ’ ”   And, despite González’s reference to information from     sources, other military units   have disputed the Chihuahua attorney general’s report.  ” ’   The National Defense Secretariat  on Monday that it could not corroborate   reports that Caro Quintero was operating in Ciudad Juarez or that   he was in Chihuahua working to take over trafficking routes to   the US.  ’ ’   ”We are unaware” of a new group operating in the area, regional   commander  ’ ’  ’ ”   While his current activities and ultimate ambitions are unclear,   Caro Quintero’s reappearance adds more complexity to a Mexican   narco landscape riven by shifting alliances and hostilities. ” ”   Challenges to the Sinaloa cartel’s power in  in Mexico have  more  and a fight between erstwhile   partners  —   Caro Quintero and Sinaloa vs. BLO and CJNG or Sinaloa   vs. Caro Quintero, BLO, and CJNG  —   will likely only   increase the violence. ” ’   ”I don’’t think that Rafael Caro Quintero, being in the business   for as long as he was and wielding as much power as he has, is   intimidated by the Sinaloa cartel, or by any cartel, for that   matter,” Vigil said. ’ ’  ’ ’   And even if Caro Quintero had faded into obscurity after his   early release, his freedom would still be an unwelcome   development for US authorities.  ’ ’   ”I find it very disconcerting that he was released, particularly   knowing that the United States would love to get him here and try   him for drug trafficking and obviously the killing of Kiki   Camarena,” Vigil, who worked in Mexico during his time with the   DEA, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”Because it was very, very, very egregious to DEA and to all law   enforcement that the killer of a DEA agent would be released.” ’