’  ’ ’   Six law enforcement officers were shot in Baton Rouge Sunday   morning, and at least three are dead in what police called a   ”senseless” incident and President Barack Obama dubbed a   ”cowardly and reprehensible assault.” ’ ’   A Louisiana state police official said the gunman   responsible died at the scene. ’ ’   ”This is not an   scenario,” he said during an   afternoon press conference. ’ ’   Initially, police suggested two other suspects could be at large.   Later Sunday, a police spokesperson said two ”persons of   interest” were detained, according to the . They have since been released. ’ ”   Three of the officers shot were members of the Baton Rouge   Police Department, and three were East Baton Rouge Parish   sheriff’s deputies. Two of those killed were from the Baton Rouge   PD, while one was an East Baton Rouge sheriff’s deputy. ” ’ the policemen killed were identified   as: ’ ’   Of the East Baton Rouge sheriff’’s deputies, one is critical   condition, ”fighting for his life,” Sheriff Sid J. Gautreaux   said. Another suffered    injuries. ’ ’   The final Baton Rouge police officer involved in the incident   suffered    injuries, as well. ’ ’ as Gavin Eugene Long,   a black male from Kansas City, Missouri. He appears to have   attacked police on his 29th birthday. Long was an   who   served seven months in Iraq and was a data specialist, according   to CNN. He was divorced in 2011. ’ ’  ’ ’   The shooting  —   what   of East Baton Rouge Parish   Kip Holden called an ”ambush”  attack  —   occurred early   Sunday morning, less than one mile from police headquarters. ’ ’   Initially, police received a call of ”a guy, carrying a rifle”   walking near Airline Highway, according to a Louisiana state   police official. Law enforcement believes the suspect called 911   himself to lure police to the area, according to NBC’’s Pete   Williams. ’ ’   When officers responded, the gunfire began, as can be heard in   the amateur video below. After the incident, police said they   were using a robot to check for explosives in the area. ’ ’  ’ ”   During a press conference in Baton Rouge,     officials stressed they wouldn’t be answering questions because   of the ongoing nature of the investigation. In addition to local   and state law enforcement, the ATF, FBI, and the United States’   Marshals Service are currently assisting the investigation, US   Attorney General Loretta Lynch said. ” ’   ”To me this is not so much about gun control, as it is about   what’’s in men’’s hearts,” Gautreaux said. ”And until we come   together as a nation, as a people, to heal as a people, if we   don’’t do that, and this madness continues, we will surely   perish.” ’ ’   A few days earlier, police arrested people in connection with a   burglary believed to be part of a larger ”” to attack officers in Baton Rouge. ’ ’   ”This is an unspeakable and unjustified attack on all of us at a   time when we need unity and healing. Rest assured, every resource   available to the State of Louisiana will be used to ensure the   perpetrators are swiftly brought to justice,” Louisiana Gov. John   Bel Edwards said in a statement. ’ ’  ’ ’   Obama, who was briefed on the situation as it   unfolded,    what he called a ”cowardly and reprehensible assault” in a   statement. ’ ’   ”We may not yet know the motives for this attack, but I want to   be clear: There is no justification for violence against law   enforcement. None. These attacks are the work of cowards who   speak for no one,” the statement read. ’ ”   The officers’ deaths come less than two weeks after    during protests following the   fatal shooting of    a    black man, outside a convenience   store in Baton Rouge. ” ’   The killing was captured on cellphone video and circulated widely   on the internet and relations between police and the community   have remained tense. ’ ’   Demonstrators protesting police violence in Baton Rouge were   arrested in large numbers last week following the death of   Sterling. Local police were criticized for what has been   described as  to otherwise peaceful demonstrations   in the area. ’