’  ’ ’   CLEVELAND  —   House Speaker Paul Ryan said Monday morning at a   breakfast for the Pennsylvania delegation here that Republicans   could not win the general election simply by bashing President   Barack Obama. They must provide an alternative plan, he said,   touting his policy proposals. ’ ”   But that message wasn’t exactly heeded at the first night of   Donald Trump’s Republican National Convention. ” ’   Well over three hours’’ worth of speakers  —   headlining an event   focused on ”making America safe again”  —   hammered Obama and   presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton on all aspects of   national security, sweeping the base that helped nominate the   Manhattan billionaire into a fervor. ’ ”   Only Trump’s wife, Melania, seemed to offer language more   enticing to independents still on the fence over who to vote for   this fall. But  of her address from Michelle   Obama’s speech at the 2008 Democratic National Convention. ” ’ most of the   speeches seemed better placed at the CPAC conservative conference   than at the Republican National Convention, where the GOP is   looking to attract votes from outside the base in hopes of   propelling it over the top in November. ’ ’   First up was Benghazi. A large block of time was given to   veterans from the 2012 attack  —   Mark Geist and John Teigen  —     going through what transpired while  the mother of Sean Smith, who was one of the   four Americans killed in the attack, called for Clinton to ”be in   stripes.” ’ ’   ”Yeah, that’’s right: Hillary for prison,” she said after seeing a   ”Hillary for Prison” sign in the front of the crowd. ”She   deserves to be in stripes.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Darryl Glenn, the Republican candidate for Senate in Colorado,   dropped a similar reference, noting that Clinton ”loves her   pantsuits,” adding: “We should send her an email and tell her   that she deserves a bright orange jumpsuit. ” ’ ”   Retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, who served in the Obama   administration, echoed similar sentiment later, aimed at   Clinton’s use of a private email server during her tenure as   secretary of state. ” ’   ”Lock her up  —   that’’s right,” he said as the crowd chanted, ”Lock   her up! Lock her up!” ’ ’   ”From this day forward, we must stand, tougher and stronger   together, with an unrelenting goal to not draw red lines and then   retreat   …     and to never be satisfied with reckless rhetoric from   an Obama clone like Hillary Clinton,” Flynn said. ’ ’   ”Tonight, Americans stand as one   …     with strength and confidence   to overcome the last eight years of the   failures   such as, bumbling indecisiveness, willful ignorance, and total   incompetence that has challenged the very heart and soul of every   American and   brought continued mayhem, murder,   and destruction into our neighborhoods and onto the world’’s   streets,” he continued. ’ ’   Much of the night was spent declaring that America is unsafe.   Immigration, race relations, and the fight against ISIS all had a   chance in the limelight. ’ ’   On immigration, Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, the chair of the   House Committee on Homeland Security, asked the whether it had   had ”enough” of Obama’’s ”reckless” policies. ’ ’   ”And now Hillary Clinton is promising more of the same  —   open   borders, executive amnesty, and the surge of Syrian refugees,” he   said. ”This is a dangerous, liberal agenda, and it’’s time for a   change. It’’s time to take back our country and make America safe   again!” ’ ’   He said that after eight years of the Obama administration, the   ”city on a hill,” the description of the US popularized by   President Ronald Reagan, had become ”a city under siege.” ’ ’   ”Today our allies no longer trust us, our adversaries no longer   fear us, and our enemies are plotting against us,” the chairman   said in an impassioned attempt to hit people’’s fears. ”This did   not happen by accident  —   it happened by design.” ’ ”   Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke took the stage to provide   the Trump campaign’s stance on police relations with minority   communities, in light of the recent killings of eight police   officers in Dallas and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, which followed     shootings of Alton Sterling in Louisiana and   Philando Castile in Minnesota. ” ’   ”Donald Trump understands that what can make our nation safe   again is a recommitment to a system of justice in which no   government official, not even those who have fought their way to   the marble and granite halls of Washington; no private citizen,   not even Hillary Clinton; and no group of people, despite the   fervor with which they press forward their grievances, can claim   privilege above the law,” Clarke said. ”The tradition of the   primacy of the rule of law in America is strong. It is in those   simple facts and in our acts that we will move forward and toward   making America safe again.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The loudest applause lines came  speech on terrorism and policing. ’ ’   Giuliani, the former New York mayor who recently referred to   Black Lives Matter as a racist organization, touched on similar   themes as Clarke. ’ ’   ”We know the risk you’’re taking out there tonight protecting us  —     black, white, Latino,” he said of the American police. ”Of every   race, every color, every creed, every sexual orientation. When   they come to save your life, they don’’t ask if you’’re black or   white. They just come to save you!” ’ ’ a 2008 Republican presidential hopeful,   also sharply criticized Obama’’s refusal to use the phrase   ”radical Islamic terrorism,” a term the Obama administration   fears could create the illusion of a religious war between the   West and Islam. ’ ’   ”For the purposes of the media, I did not say all of Islam,”   Giuliani said. ”I did not say most of Islam. I said Islamic   extremist terrorism. You know who you are! And we’’re coming to   get you!” ’ ”   Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, Trump’s first supporter in the   Senate, wrapped up his speech with a succinct explanation of   Trump’s core proposals. ” ’   ”Donald Trump will kill Obamatrade,” he said. ”Donald Trump will   build the wall. Donald Trump will make America great again!” ’