’  ’ ”   Wells Fargo, the world’s biggest bank by capitalisation, has   given a huge vote of confidence in London’s future as a financial   hub even after the expected British exit from the European Union,   signing on for a new £300 million ($396 million) headquarters in   the UK capital. ” ’ that the US lender is buying an     building being developed near London Bridge called 33   Central. ’ ’   Wells Fargo will move into its new London offices in 2018. The   move will bring its 850 London workers, now spread across four   buildings, into one location. Wells Fargo has 269, 000 employees   globally and a market cap of $242. 4 billion (£183. 3 billion).   Most of its business is done in the US, but its London offices   help American clients looking to do business here. ’ ”   The   sale is one of the biggest property deals since   the UK’s shock June 23 vote to leave the EU. Since then there   have been concerns about both Britain’s property market and   London’s status as a financial hub. ” ’   On the property front, multiple commercial property investment   funds, which own at least £15 billion worth of UK buildings, were    after being overwhelmed by   people trying to pull money out of UK property. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the collapse in the pound to a    against the dollar   is making British assets more attractive to some buyers. The US   property fund Madison International Realty says it is . ’ ’   As for finance, multiple banks have warned that they may have to   relocate thousands of jobs away from Britain if the UK fails to   negotiate passporting rights that allow them to operate across   the EU from London.   and  despite  and a   joint letter from the government and investment banks pledging   the help London ”.” ’ ’   Marian Herman, the CFO of HB Reavis Group, the developer that   sold the building to Wells Fargo, said in an emailed statement:   ”Many have doubted what will happen to the real estate market   after the Brexit vote. We see the successful signing of this deal   as strong endorsement of the quality of our real estate   solutions, as well as the resilience of the HB Reavis business   even under seemingly challenging market conditions.” ’