’  ’ ’   Tesla published    to its ”master plan” on Wednesday. ’ ’   As noted earlier, the plan encompasses  which involves Tesla and SolarCity. ’ ’   In creating its new solar solution, Musk calls for a   ”    product” that allows users to generate   their own power. The service would be managed by a mobile app,   the plan says. Musk adds that folding SolarCity’’s operations into   Tesla’’s was necessary to make that happen. ’ ”   As part of the plan to grow Tesla’s vehicle lineup, you can   expect a new   truck and what appears to be an     solution for public transportation. ” ’   ”Both are in the early stages of development at Tesla and should   be ready for unveiling next year,” Musk writes. ’ ’   As noted at about the same time that the Model 3 was introduced,   a smaller SUV is also on the way, which will share the same   platform as the Model 3. ’ ’  ’ ’   Tesla is digging its heels in on autonomous driving, aiming for   its technology to be as much as 10 times as safe as human   driving. This is a bold move for the company after having been   embroiled in controversy over the first fatality in one of its   cars using its Autopilot feature earlier this year. ’ ’   The new plan calls for vehicles that are ”fully   with     capability.” Musk adds numerous caveats here,   including clarification on the meaning of ”beta,” the stage of   Autopilot’’s development. ’ ”   Here’s Musk: ” ’   When you’’re not using your   car, you could add it to   the ”Tesla shared fleet,” Musk says. That way, you could use it   to generate income while you’’re at work or on vacation. ’ ’   He continues: ’ ”   As Jillian D’Onfro, Business Insider’s senior tech reporter,   writes, this part of the plan may be  for Uber. ” ’  ’ ’   The new plan is a revision of the original, first published by   Tesla in 2006. At the time, before the Model S and the Model X   were roaming the streets on Autopilot, Tesla set out to build a     car and a couple of affordable cars and generate clean,     electric power. ’ ’   Edmunds. com director of industry analysis Jessica Caldwell tells   Business Insider: ”If part one of Elon Musk’’s master plan was   like putting a man on the moon, part two is a lot more like   colonizing the galaxy.” ’ ’   Tesla has enjoyed several victories in recent years. The Model S   has racked up multiple awards and was the   large   luxury sedan in 2015. The   Model 3 sedan debuted in   March, raking in more than 325, 000 orders in a matter of days. ’ ”   The company’s   success hasn’t been without drama,   though. ” ’   During the first half of this year, Musk had been fighting   battles on multiple fronts  —    fallout from the first   fatality involving a   Model S  pointed questions about the  and suggestions that   Tesla withheld key information from investors  —   to which  ’ ’   But, with much of the original ”top secret” plan already in play,   Musk clearly sees this as an opportunity to recalibrate. ’