’  ’ ’   Tesla CEO  for his   company Wednesday night in a blog post titled ”Master plan, Part   Deux.” ’ ’   In the newly revealed road map, the Silicon Valley tycoon   announced plans to introduce a new compact SUV and a new pickup   truck. ’ ’   In the process, the company is marching   into the most   competitive segment  —   compact SUVs  —   and the most territorial   segment  —   pickup trucks  —   in the US auto market. ’ ”   But Musk’s decision to do so makes sense. In the blog post, the   Tesla CEO cited his desire for the company’s products to reach a   greater swath of the automotive market than luxury sedans and   premium SUVs. ” ’   With the addition of these two models, Tesla would indeed achieve   that goal. ’ ’   Compact SUVs make up the largest segment in the US auto market,   with more than 2. 9 million vehicles of the type sold in 2015.   Compact SUV sales that year were 20% higher than in 2014, and   that growth has continued into 2016. The strength of the segment,   however, also begets the   competition that exists   within it. ’ ’   Models such as the Toyota RAV4, the Honda   the Ford Escape,   and the Nissan Rogue dominate the market by offering great   utility and   reliability at a reasonable price. ’ ”   It’s also a segment seldom frequented by   makers. The   only such compact SUV in recent memory to reach the mass market   was the Toyota RAV4 EV, which was discontinued in 2014. The RAV4   EV, though, was actually powered by Tesla’s battery and electric   drive systems. So, in that respect, Tesla has been here before. ” ’  ’ ”   Tesla’s new compact SUV will, in all likelihood, be built on the   same platform as the $35, 000 Model 3 sedan. Since Musk confirmed   in his new master plan that a car cheaper than the Model 3 would   be unlikely, the new compact SUV will be priced higher than most   other   offerings. ” ”   But none of the   SUVs have Tesla’s brand caché.   Considering the type of demand Tesla has seen for the Model 3,   Tesla is unlikely to have a problem finding buyers for its   compact SUV. ” ’   The pickup truck is one of the great symbols of Americana. As a   result, it is big business in the US. Americans bought more than   2. 5 million pickup trucks last year, which translates to more   than 16% of all passenger vehicles sold. For that reason,   American truck buyers are fiercely territorial, with the market   neatly carved up by Ford, GM, and Ram. For the past couple of   decades, Nissan and Toyota have tried desperately to gain   traction in this segment, but they have not made much headway. ’ ’   Ford sold more than 780, 000   trucks in the US in 2015,   commanding roughly 36% of the   pickup segment. Toyota,   the   brand not from Detroit, sold just 119, 000     Tundra trucks, which translates to about 5% of the   segment. ’ ’   Ford and Chevrolet tried out   versions of their   Ranger and   compact trucks in the late 1990s without much   success, and the   segment has been a very quiet   neighborhood in the 15 years s. ’ ’  ’ ”   It will be interesting to see Tesla’s approach to the pickup   truck. Though the company’s   electric drivetrain is   perfect for towing, it remains to be seen whether Tesla will   actually build a bona fide truck. The company could opt for a       in the realm of a Honda Ridgeline or a     combo such as the cult classic Chevrolet El Camino. ” ’   In statement to Business Insider,  ’ ’  ’