It took nearly three weeks, 12 closely fought games and a day of   tiebreakers to decide the World Chess Championship, but at the end of play on Wednesday, victory went to Magnus Carlsen, the Norwegian grandmaster, leaving Sergey Karjakin to return home to Russia in noble defeat. “Karjakin only wanted to prove he was Carlsen’s equal,” said Denes Boros, a Hungarian grandmaster and chess commentator who was at the event. “Carlsen came to prove he was greater. ” In the end, he was. Wednesday was Mr. Carlsen’s 26th birthday, which he said earlier in the week had been good luck in the past. Mr. Karjakin is also 26, making them the youngest pair ever to face off in the world championship. Spectators at the Fulton Market Building in Lower Manhattan, many of them students of past championships, declared the match outstanding, with each player pressing minute advantages or finding inventive defenses against whatever attack the other threw at him. “It’s one of the   matches on both sides,” said Lev Alburt, a grandmaster who has followed championship matches since 1954. “Even the fact of many draws, almost all have been achieved in very sharp play. Both players are trying to squeeze something almost from nothing. Where other players would play safe, both keep playing for a win, creating problems for their opponent at a risk to themselves. ” “It’s one of the most exciting championship matches in history,” he said. “If you’re a beginner, you can learn a lot, and if you’re a grandmaster, you can learn a lot. ” Everything got fast and fun on Wednesday, as the solemn, deliberative pace of the first 12 games gave way to rapid action in which mistakes were inevitable. The tiebreakers consisted of four games of   chess, with each man given 25 minutes to complete his moves, plus an additional 10 seconds for every move made. After Peter Thiel, the billionaire entrepreneur and former chess prodigy, made the ceremonial first move, Mr. Karjakin, playing white, began the day like most others, with the Ruy Lopez opening. Both players started aggressively, with Mr. Carlsen advancing his pawns on the queen side. He stood up from the board twice in the opening minutes. Mr. Karjakin pushed back, but after an exchange of major pieces, the game headed to a draw  —   a slight advantage for Mr. Carlsen, who now had white for two of the remaining three games. In the next game, with the rain outside wrapping the venue in a gauzy gray, Mr. Carlsen put enormous time pressure on Mr. Karjakin, at one point forcing the Russian’s clock down to near zero. But a combination of creative defense and missed opportunities let Mr. Karjakin escape with a stalemate, eliciting applause from the crowd. “Magnus blew it,” said Maurice Ashley, a grandmaster watching in a V. I. P. area. Then in Game 3, first blood. With Mr. Karjakin again playing white, Mr. Carlsen applied unrelenting pressure on both sides of the board, forcing Mr. Karjakin again to use his clock. This time the challenger did not have a response for Mr. Carlsen’s attack, and they entered the last game with Mr. Karjakin needing a win just to stay alive and force the match into the blitz round. Mr. Carlsen, playing white in Game 4, never gave Mr. Karjakin a chance, opening a slight advantage and pressing it until the challenger had to fight not to lose. This time, Mr. Karjakin’s remarkable ability to eke out draws was of no use. Mr. Carlsen, needing only a draw to win the match, pressed on and won. For Mr. Carlsen, who has been called “the Mozart of chess,” the last two games were a   recovery from his mistake in Game 2, which allowed his opponent to escape. After defending brilliantly throughout the match, Mr. Karjakin never managed a serious attack in the tiebreakers. With just three wins in 16 games, Mr. Carlsen retained his title and his reputation as a player with no weaknesses. This was the first world championship match in New York since 1995, and organizers hoped to emulate the luxury boxes at baseball or basketball games, with a V. I. P. lounge where drinks were free and tickets cost up to $1, 200 a day. Regular day passes cost $75 most days. It was a test for chess as an American spectator sport, and the results were mixed. Even in the venue, most spectators followed the game on video monitors or computer simulations of the board, rather than observing the players through the   mirrors. Many played their own games as the action was going on. Yet the energy of the crowd at moments was unmistakable, if never exactly at the level of Alabama versus Clemson. The organizers said 10 million people worldwide followed the match online  —   some paying $15 and up for   video, but most watching computer renderings of the board and pieces for free. The winner takes home 60 percent of a prize purse of about $1. 1 million, lower than at some previous championships. Bruce Pandolfini, a writer and teacher, said that history was being made, in part because of the players’ youth and Mr. Carlsen’s celebrity, and also because the match was accessible to anyone with a smartphone. Both players are young enough to build a rivalry for years to come, though three Americans  —   Fabiano Caruana, Wesley So and Hikaru Nakamura  —   were all rated higher than Mr. Karjakin going into the match and are eager for a shot at the title in 2018. If one of them gets that far, he will be the first American to compete for the championship since Bobby Fischer won it in 1972. After the game, Mr. Karjakin suggested that he might have   at the expense of his creativity. “Maybe it would be better to have a fresh head and not repeat so much,” he said. Mr. Carlsen said it was the most difficult of his championship matches, adding, “I’m very happy that at the end of the match I managed to find joy in playing. ” He added, “That’s the most important thing. ”