’  ’ ”   Bill Clinton created a very personal portrait of his wife,   Hillary, who earlier was officially chosen to be the Democratic   presidential nominee, when he spoke at the party’s convention   Tuesday night. ” ’   He talked of meeting Hillary and courting her when they were both   in law school at Yale University. ’ ’   ”The first time I saw her, we were, appropriately enough, in a   class on political and civil rights,” he told an audience at the   Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. ”She exuded this   sense of strength and   that I found magnetic.” ’ ”   Bill couldn’t manage to work up the nerve to introduce himself,   he said, and one day Hillary caught him staring at her in the   library. ” ’   ”She said, ’’Look, if you’’re going to keep staring at me, and now   I’’m staring back, we at least ought to know each other’’s names.   I’’m Hillary Rodham, who are you? ’’” Bill recounted. ”I was so   impressed and surprised that, would you believe it or not,   momentarily, I was speechless.” ’ ’’ ’   He reminisced about taking long walks with her and meeting her   family. He remembered the flowery skirt she was wearing when he   saw her again after that meeting in the library. And he explained   how it took some convincing for Hillary to marry him because she   was so ambitious with her career. ’ ’   ”I had married my best friend,” Bill said. ”I was still in awe   after more than four years of being around her at how smart and   strong and loving and caring she was, and I really hoped that her   choosing me and rejecting my advice to pursue her own career was   a decision she would never regret.” ’ ’   Bill also characterized Hillary as a change agent. ’ ’   ”This is a really important point to take out of this   convention,” he said. ”If you believe in making change from the   bottom up   …     you know, it’’s hard, and some people think it’’s   boring. Speeches like this are fun. Actually doing the work is   hard.” ’ ’   Hillary is often criticized for being a ”career politician” at a   time when many Americans are rejecting the political   establishment. The rise of Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who   challenged Hillary for the Democratic nomination, and of this   year’’s Republican nominee, Donald Trump, are evidence of voters’’   desire to see an unconventional leader in the White House. ’ ’   But Bill tried to make the case that Hillary had always pushed   for change in her political career and that she had a track   record of accomplishments. ’ ’   ”I hear people say, ’’We need a change  —   she’’s been around a long   time. ’’ She has,” Bill said. ”But she’’s been worth every single   year she’’s put into making people’’s lives better.” ’ ’   He continued: ”I can tell you this. If you were sitting where I’’m   sitting and you heard what I have heard at every dinner   conversation, every lunch conversation, every long walk, you   would say that this woman had never been satisfied with the   status quo on anything. She has always wanted to move the ball   forward. That is just who she is.” ’ ’   Bill also characterized her as ”insatiably curious,” a ”natural   leader,” a ”good organizer,” and ”the best darn  ” he   had ever seen. ’ ’   He then contrasted the message of the Democratic convention  —     which has been overwhelmingly positive and optimistic  —   with the     caricature that was amplified at the Republican   convention, which was held last week in Cleveland. ’ ’   ”How does this square with the things that you heard at the   Republican convention?” he asked. ”One is real  —   the other is   made up   …     We just have to decide which is which, my fellow   Americans.” ’