’  ’ ”   The father of a deceased Muslim US soldier who  on the final night of the Democratic   National Convention is reiterating his argument against Donald   Trump’s bid for the White House. ” ”   Khizr Khan called out the Republican nominee in Philadelphia on   Thursday, in response to the   mogul’s . ” ’   ”That was only half of my speech,” Khan said during an appearance   on MSNBC Friday. ’ ’   In an interview on the network, Khan appealed to top Republican   leaders in Congress, asking them to reject Trump’’s candidacy. He   specifically called on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and   House Speaker Paul Ryan, describing each as a ”patriot” and a   ”decent human being.” ’ ’   ”Isn’’t it time to repudiate Trump? What he has said, what he has   threatened to do. This is [a] moral imperative for both leaders   to say to him, ’’That’’s enough. ’’” ’ ’   ”You are about to sink the ship of the patriot Republicans,” he   added. ’ ’   Khan likened the US Democratic and Republican parties as one and   the same, saying, ”Republicans are as patriotic as Democrats are.   They are half the goodness of this beautiful country.” ’ ’   Appearing to fight back tears, Khan posed this question to   Republicans: ”If your candidate wins, and he governs the way he   has campaigned, my country, this country will have [a]   Constitutional crisis [like] never before.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Referring to McConnell and Ryan again, Khan added: ”My conscience   compels me under these very difficult circumstances . .. there is   so much at stake. I appeal to both of these leaders . .. there   comes a time in the history of a nation where an ethical, moral   stand has to be taken  —   regardless of the political cost.” ’ ’   Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas  to the Republican National Convention   earlier this month. Cruz was booed off the stage during a fiery     speech in Cleveland, Ohio, in which he chose not to   endorse Trump, but to admonish voters to ”stand, and speak, and   vote your conscience.” ’ ’   Ryan suggested in June that  if he tried to enact a Muslim ban as   president. McConnell said in May that all commanders in chief   face systemic and institutional ”constraints” that will  ’ ’  ’