Joe McKnight, who played three seasons for the Jets and was a standout at the University of Southern California, was fatally shot in Louisiana on Thursday in a possible episode of road rage, the authorities said. McKnight, 28, was shot “multiple times,” Col. John N. Fortunato, a spokesman for the Jefferson Parish Sheriff’s Office, said in an interview. The shooting occurred around 2:45 p. m. at Behrman Highway and Holmes Boulevard in Terrytown, La. about five miles southeast of New Orleans, the office said in a statement. McKnight was pronounced dead at the scene. A suspect, Ronald Gasser, 54, was taken into custody at the scene and was being questioned by detectives, the sheriff’s office said. The events leading up to the shooting were not immediately clear but the office said it may be related to “a possible road rage incident. ” The Jets, for whom McKnight played from 2010 to 2012, wrote on Twitter: “Rest in peace, Joe McKnight. Our thoughts and condolences are with his loved ones. ” Others also reacted on Twitter: McKnight arrived at Southern California as one of the more promising recruits in the nation, eliciting comparisons to the former Trojans star Reggie Bush, but his production never matched the hype. The Jets, seduced by his speed and versatility, traded up to select him in the fourth round of the 2010 draft. McKnight had trouble cracking the Jets’ running back rotation but revealed value as a returner, running back kickoffs for touchdowns in 2011 and 2012, his final full season with the team. He spent three seasons with the team, starting once in 39 games and gaining 505 yards rushing and 177 receiving. In 2011, his 31. 6 yards per kickoff return led the N. F. L. and his   touchdown in Baltimore remains the longest play in team history. The end of his tenure with the Jets was defined by turbulence: a failed conditioning test, an arrest on traffic warrants and a concussion. The team released him among their final cuts in August 2013, and McKnight played only two more games in the N. F. L. both with Kansas City in 2014. McKnight continued his career in the Canadian Football League, where he started in February and played with the Edmonton Eskimos and, most recently, the Saskatchewan Roughriders.