’  ’ ’   PITTSBURGH, Pa.   Democratic presidential candidate Hillary   Clinton toured the U. S. Rust Belt on Saturday, promising to   reject bad international trade deals during a factory visit and   securing the endorsement of investor Mark Cuban at a Pittsburgh   rally. ’ ’   The Dallas Mavericks owner, who said as recently as last month   that there was a ”good chance” he would vote for Donald Trump,   instead criticized the Republican nominee’’s leadership in front   of an energetic crowd. ’ ’   ”Leadership is not yelling and screaming and   intimidating,”said. ’ ’   ”You know what we call a person like that in Pittsburgh? A   jagoff! ”added, using disparaging   Pittsburgh slang. ’ ’had spoken with Clinton campaign chairman   John Podesta several times in recent weeks and called him on   Thursday to say he was ready to endorse Clinton, a campaign aide   said. ’ ”   Clinton, along with her   Tim Kaine, a U. S. senator   from Virginia, is on a   tour of Pennsylvania and Ohio   after becoming the first woman to accept a major U. S. party’s   presidential nomination at the Democratic convention in   Philadelphia on Thursday. ” ’   Pennsylvania and Ohio are two states in the U. S. Rust Belt that   are dealing with job losses caused by the decline in U. S.   manufacturing. Neither leans heavily in favor of either political   party but both voted for Obama in 2008 and 2012.  ’ ’   Trump has zeroed in on white,   voters in the region   as critical to his campaign and plans to visit both states early   next week.  ’ ’  ’ ’   In a visit earlier on Saturday to Johnstown Wire Technologies in   Johnstown, Pennsylvania, Clinton told the largely union crowd   there that she would create   jobs by investing in   infrastructure and reject a pending Asia trade deal that has   become a flashpoint in the U. S. presidential campaign. ’ ’   ”We are going to say ’’no’’ to unfair trade deals, we’’re going to   stand up to China,” Clinton said.  ’ ’   ”I feel strongly about this and I need your help,” she added. ’ ’   The pending Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiated by   President Barack Obama has drawn criticism from both Clinton and   Trump. ’ ’   Clinton says it does not do enough to protect U. S. workers. Trump   has said he would rip it up and questioned whether Clinton would   keep her stance if she wins the Nov. 8 presidential election. ’ ’   Leo Gerard, the president of the United Steelworkers, which   represents roughly 200 of the 260 workers employed by Johnstown   Wire Technologies, assured the crowd in his introduction of   Clinton that Republicans have been ”telling lies” about Clinton’’s   stance on the deal.  ’ ’   Cambria County, where Johnstown Wire Technologies is based, is     white and has a median household income of $42, 000. ’ ’   Clinton and Kaine will continue their   tour that   began in Philadelphia, continuing on to Youngstown and Columbus.   They are trying to contrast their plan to use infrastructure   investments to create jobs with that of Trump, whom Clinton said   Friday has a ”downbeat vision of America.” ’ ’   ”We are visiting places that prove what Americans can do,”   Clinton said in Johnstown. ”This country and our people have what   it takes to get ahead and stay ahead if they have the leadership   that gives us that chance.” ’ ’   (Editing by Sandra Maler) ’