’  ’ ’   I just watched ”Equity,” the highly anticipated Wall Street movie   that came to theaters on Friday, and I loved it. ’ ’   The movie was compelling  —   there was ambition. There was greed.   There was   crime. ’ ”   It was also the most realistic Wall Street movie I’ve ever   seen. The story follows a senior banker staging a comeback   after a botched IPO by fighting to take the next big Silicon   Valley startup public. ” ’   ”Equity” provides a real look into the lives of investment   bankers, and why their careers involve so much work and   travel  —   but, perhaps more notably, it’’s a refreshing change of   pace after eight years of Wall Street movies about the financial   crisis. ’ ”   It’s so entertaining you almost forget another remarkable   detail about the film: The movie was written, directed, produced,   and starred in by women.   ” ’’ ’   ”Equity” passes the  with flying colors  —   that is, the rule created in   1985 by the cartoonist Alison Bechdel that requires movies to   have at least two women who speak to each other and specifically   not speak about a man. ’ ’   But ”Equity” is not an overtly feminist statement. It’’s not a   story about women fighting to break the glass ceiling or getting   overlooked because of their sex. Really,   it just feels like a great Wall Street movie in which   the main characters happen to be women. ’ ”   For one thing, the female characters are multidimensional.   You feel for the vice president who hides her pregnancy so as not   to inhibit a potential promotion, and you feel betrayed when you   realize she’s also capable of doing bad. The   senior   banker who sometimes treats her subordinates badly is more than   just a bossy woman; she is conflicted, and she’s actually   trying to do the right thing. ” ”   In other words, it wouldn’t be a stretch to imagine men   in each of these roles, rather than women. And that’s kind of   refreshing too. ” ”   I often write about women on Wall Street, and I generally hear a   similar story: Women tend to work harder than men, but have to   fight twice as hard to get ahead. We think we’ll get ahead with   hard work, when really we should be focusing more on   networking, like men do. ” ’   So I was expecting more of the same message when I watched   ”Equity.” That I didn’’t get that message was a pleasant surprise.   Instead, I got to watch a fun movie about some dynamic Wall   Streeters taking a tech unicorn public. ’ ’   To be sure, there are challenges the bankers face that are   undoubtedly due to their gender, and there is still a feminist   message being given. ’ ”   The main character, Naomi Bishop, for example, is told she rubs   people the wrong way  —   a description that’s undoubtedly used more   often for women than for men. But ultimately, the reason she has   to fight so hard for the promotion is because of a   previous business transaction gone wrong  —   a hurdle   that could just as easily apply to a man. ” ’   I’’m telling everyone I know to go see ”Equity” this   weekend  —   not just because important to see strong   women in positions of power, regardless of how seamlessly that   goal is accomplished. You can go see ”Equity” for   that reason, or you can go because it’’s a really good   movie. ’ ’I just watched ”Equity,” the highly anticipated. ..’