’  ’ ’   It’s hard to know how to protect your personal security online   with data breaches happening at businesses and institutions all   the time. ’ ’    ’ ’     On Monday, the National Institute of Standards and Technology     released a draft of its new proposed . The document includes a lot of updates and     changes, but one important one is a shift away from     recommending SMS text messages as one of the “factors” in       authentication.   ’ ’     The most mainstream form of the security precaution up until     now has been signing into a service with your username and     password and then entering a onetime code received through     SMS to complete the login process. The idea is that even if     someone trying to access your account know your username and     password, it’s unlikely that they will also have access to your     phone to see the code that’s texted to you.   ’ ’     Security researchers have become increasingly concerned about     this system, though, as hackers find more and more ways to     remotely access SMS texts.   ’ ’     Additionally, as VoIP communication services (Google Voice,     Skype etc.) have proliferated, it has become harder to assess     whether an SMS message is truly being sent over the cell     network or whether it is being funneled through other     transmission protocols with varying levels of security. The     draft guidelines say, “Due to the risk that SMS messages may be     intercepted or redirected, implementers of new systems SHOULD     carefully consider alternative authenticators. ”   ’ ’     NIST’s guidelines, which are directed at federal agencies,     aren’t flat out banning SMS as an authentication factor right     now. But the draft does warn that things will eventually move     in that direction and that SMS “may no longer be allowed in     future releases of this guidance. ”   ’ ’     The idea right now is to discourage agencies from making new     investments in   infrastructure that involve SMS and     to invest instead in other authentication options like     biometrics, secure mobile apps that generate   codes,     cryptographic chips, or dongles that generate   codes.     The guidelines are basically encouraging futureproofing, and     are acting as a warning to existing   systems that     things will eventually need to change.   ’ ’  ’ ’     “What we’re seeing now is that the investment required by a     malicious actor [to hack SMS] is going down, it’s getting     easier to do,” said Michael Garcia, the deputy director of     authentication research program NSTIC at NIST. “The scalability     of that is sufficiently high that it’s really becoming a     problem. It’s certainly better than just a password to use SMS     and password, but it’s insufficiently secure for a lot of     applications. ”   ’ ’     Going forward, NIST wants to encourage investment in security     technology that makes it easier to switch between     authentication factors, so if the efficacy of one approach is     degraded by bad actors, a different one that still offers     robust protection can take its place.   ’ ’     For groups that already have SMS   in place, “We’re     not saying federal agencies drop SMS, don’t use it anymore,”     Garcia notes. “But we are saying, if you’re making new     investments you should consider that in your  . ”   ’ ’     With this generation of proposed guidelines, NIST is trying a      of its     drafts, so it can get additional comments and suggestions     before a draft enters the standard open comment period, which     will start for these proposals at the end of the summer.   ’ ’     Garcia estimates that the guidelines will be revised and     approved by the end of the year, depending on how much feedback     NIST gets during the preview and open comment periods. And     these recommendations don’t directly apply to the services you     use from nongovernment companies like Facebook or Google. But     eventually you should see these best practices trickling down     to the products you use every day.   ’