’  ’ ’   Uber is throwing in the towel in China. ’ ’   After a gruelling ground war, the       company is officially selling its Chinese unit to its rival in   the country, Didi Chuxing. ’ ”   Uber has suffered through extreme regulatory scrutiny,  controversy over background checks and of    and more. But this is something   else. China is the world’s most populous country, with a market   consistently touted by Uber as a source of opportunity. ” ”   Uber’s withdrawal is the greatest setback in the company’s     history  —   and a rude awakening for many in the      startup ecosystem. ” ’   The details of the Didi Chuxing deal,  are as follows: ’ ’  ’ ’   Uber  as it battled its Chinese   homegrown rival, including crackdowns by the Chinese   authorities as well as censorship in WeChat and allegations   of driver fraud. ’ ”   China was a puzzle that Uber just couldn’t crack, no matter how   much cash it threw at it. The $68 billion company, the most   valuable private tech startup in the world, . While it is apparently profitable in some developed   markets, it is deep in the red in China. ” ’   This failure comes despite Uber’’s previous touting of China as a   land of milk and honey. ”To put it frankly,”  ”China represents one of the largest untapped   opportunities for Uber, potentially larger than the US.” ’ ’   The company boasted of meteoric growth in the country: Nine   months after launch, Uber enjoyed 479 times as many trips in   Chengdu as it saw in New York after the same length of time,   it said. ’ ’  ’ ”   But metrics aren’t everything. The most explosive growth in the   world won’t do a company any good if it can’t turn a profit and   build a viable business around its core product. ” ”   Uber’s failure in China is a lesson that much of Silicon Valley   and the tech industry would do well to heed. Many in the     business are happy to pump tens of millions into   wildly unprofitable businesses off the back of     growth graphs and vague promises of future returns. ” ”   It’s a strategy that can work; just look at Facebook. But it’s no   guaranteed recipe for success, no matter how many billions you   throw at it  —   as Uber has learned. ” ’   Counterintuitively, the Didi Chuxing deal may actually help Uber   in the long term, as offloading its unprofitable Chinese segment   should make it easier for the company to finally go public. ’ ’   Ultimately, the deal is a repudiation of the notion that those   with enough venture capital behind them can do   anything. ’