’  ’ ’   To Antonio García Martínez, the former Facebook employee who   wrote the new Silicon Valley   ”,” the 2010 Academy   film ”” is a piece of pure fiction loosely inspired   by actual events. ’ ”   And though the film about the birth of Facebook, directed by   David Fincher and written by Aaron Sorkin, came out six years   ago, Martínez still thinks it’s silly how it shaped so many   Silicon Valley outsiders’ view of its subject, Facebook founder   and CEO Mark Zuckerberg. ” ”   Martínez spent 2011 to 2013 as the company’s first     product manager, where he would report to chief operating officer   Sheryl Sandberg, and though he didn’t work as closely with   Zuckerberg as he did with Sandberg, he said he was able to get   enough of a feel for who Zuckerberg was as a person. ” ’   While he has observed Zuckerberg grow into a more capable leader   in the years since he left, Martínez thinks Zuckerberg is   essentially the same person he met back in 2011, and he told   Business Insider the public consistently got two main things   wrong about Zuck. ’ ”   Jesse Eisenberg’s portrayal of Zuckerberg as a conniving,   backstabbing, severely socially awkward introvert made for great   drama, but it’s just not who Zuck is, Martínez said. ” ’   Sure, he added, Zuckerberg ”doesn’’t exactly make a lot of eye   contact,” isn’’t a great speaker, and gets unnaturally obsessed   with certain details, but that’’s par for the course in Silicon   Valley. It’’s not as if he’’s some sort of evil ”Rain Man,” though. ’ ’   ”In fact, on the contrary, he’’s actually very alpha male and very   dominant,” Martínez said. ”He’’s the sort of guy who, if you   challenge him that he can’’t do 100   he’’ll bet a million   dollars that he can, and he’’ll win.” ’ ’   Martínez said that Zuckerberg was not a blowhard who liked to   throw his weight around but that ”the claws will come out very   suddenly,” like the time when Martínez was in a meeting with him   and Zuckerberg interrupted an overly long explanation with, ”Just   shut up and answer the question.” ’ ’ ’ ’   One of the reasons ”Chaos Monkeys” is so interesting is that    but Martínez insists that when Zuckerberg talks about   Facebook’’s mission to connect every person in the world, he’’s not   putting a fake sheen over   capitalist greed. ’ ’   ”That really is his life’’s mission, and that’’s what he does,”   Martínez said. ’ ’   He called the subplot in ”The Social Network” that showed   Zuckerberg starting Facebook as a way to meet girls to be ”utter      ” not based on anything factual.  Zuckerberg   said he found this aspect of the movie to be especially hurtful   because it undermined what he had dedicated his life to. ’ ’   Martínez pointed to the recent news that  which   is meant to bring free   internet to the poorest parts   of the world. ”He’’s not doing it for money, because like, the   monetization in those countries is zero,” Martínez said. ’ ”   When you read Martínez’s book or talk to him, you’ll see that he    and Silicon Valley in   general, but at the end of the day he has plenty of respect for   Zuckerberg. ”