SITTWE, Myanmar  —   Satellite images show villages burned to the ground. Human rights groups relay allegations of rape and the slaughter of children. Thousands of refugees have fled across the border to Bangladesh, while aid workers have been prevented from reaching the afflicted. As the Myanmar Army unleashes a brutal counterinsurgency campaign against the Rohingya in the north, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar’s leader, has remained nearly silent, putting her status as an exemplar of democratic values and a Nobel Peace Prize laureate in a different light. Human rights advocates accuse her of condoning a military campaign designed to drive the Rohingya, a Muslim minority in this   nation, off their land in Rakhine State and out of the country. The United Nations human rights agency has said the abuses may amount to crimes against humanity. Now, nearly two months after the campaign began, it remains unclear what Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s plan is. She has chosen not to visit the area, close to the border with Bangladesh, which has been sealed under a military directive designed to keep out foreign aid workers and journalists. And though she has created an advisory commission headed by Kofi Annan, the former United Nations secretary general, to look into   reconciliation in Rakhine State, she has largely defended the military’s behavior. “Show me a country without human rights issues,” she said at an Oct. 12 news conference. “Every country has human rights abuses. I am taking seriously allegations of human rights violations in this country. ” A few weeks later during a visit to Tokyo, she said, “We have been very careful not to blame anyone until we have complete evidence about who has been responsible. ” The Obama administration had hoped that once Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi came to power, the plight of the Rohingya would improve. Instead, their living conditions have deteriorated, American officials say. Near the town of Sittwe, south of where the military campaign is being carried out, more than 100, 000 Rohingya live in internment camps, after their properties were demolished in communal violence in 2012. The army began its campaign this fall, after it said armed men killed nine police officers on Oct. 9. But instead of retaliating against what is believed to be a small group of poorly armed Rohingya men, it has uprooted tens of thousands of impoverished civilians, most of whom lead a    existence as rice farmers and petty traders. The use of helicopter gunships and the “wholesale burning of villages” amounted to “gross violations of human rights,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and an early supporter of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi. Experts say the army’s excessive methods are adapted from British counterinsurgency tactics from the colonial era, known as the “four cuts. ” The military has honed those practices during decades of fighting ethnic groups in other parts of Myanmar, said U Aung Thu Nyein, director of the Institute for Strategy and Policy in Myanmar. Those tactics include denying armed groups access to intelligence, finance, recruits and food by pushing civilian populations away from where they usually live. About 10, 000 Rohingya have struggled across the border into Bangladesh since the operation began, many of them weak after evading Bangladeshi patrols that have officially closed the border, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees said. The refugees were fleeing security forces who were “killing men, shooting them, slaughtering children, raping women, burning and looting houses, forcing these people to cross the river” into Bangladesh, John McKissick, the head of the agency’s office in the Bangladeshi outpost, Cox’s Bazaar, told the BBC last week. The ultimate goal was “the ethnic cleansing of the Muslim minority in Myanmar,” Mr. McKissick said. “Descriptions coming out of there are consistent with decades of abuse by the military against the Karen, Chin and Shan ethnic people,” said Tyler Giannini, a professor at Harvard Law School and a   of its International Human Rights Clinic. “That’s why it is beholden on the government to investigate what’s going on against the Rohingya and hold those responsible accountable. ” As the civilian leader of the government, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi now shares power with the military. The army controls three vital cabinet posts: defense, home affairs and border affairs. These are the ministries running the   operation in Rakhine State. Most of the information she receives on the Rohingya is from military leaders, and they have convinced her that the Rohingya in Rakhine are terrorists, analysts in Myanmar say. Her government advisers are mostly former military officers, or veteran civil servants with firm beliefs about the superiority of Buddhist values over all others, they say. A spokesman for Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi said she was “standing” with the military. “She knows everything,” said U Zaw Htay, the spokesman. “The military has been briefing her on every important issue. ” Further, there is little pushback against the military from the Myanmar news media or other possible quarters of criticism, said Kelley Currie, a senior fellow at the Project 2049 Institute, a private group that promotes international security in Washington, and who regularly visits Myanmar. “‘Progressive’ elements have either gone silent or joined in   and   rhetoric based on information that is   to the military,” she said. Fiona MacGregor, a reporter who wrote about alleged rapes of Rohingya women by the military for The Myanmar Times, a privately run newspaper, said she was fired after her article appeared. So far, the government has declined requests to appoint an independent inquiry into the military’s abuses. Instead, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi is depending on the advisory commission, which does not include any Rohingya members. Mr. Annan is scheduled to visit Sittwe on Friday. Mr. Giannini said there is enough evidence to warrant an independent commission similar to one conducted in the Darfur region of Sudan under the auspices of the United Nations in 2004. That inquiry found the Sudanese military had committed war crimes and referred the matter to the International Criminal Court. Satellite images reviewed by Human Rights Watch captured over four days in November showed that entire villages in Rakhine State had been razed and more than 1, 250 buildings were destroyed by fire, said Matthew Smith, chief executive of Fortify Rights, a group that specializes in the Rohingya. “We’ve steadily received allegations of mass rape of Rohingya women and girls by army soldiers,” Mr. Smith said. “With a gun to his head, one man was reportedly forced to watch as soldiers raped his    daughter. ” About 30, 000 men, women and children are in “desperate need” of food, shelter and medical care, said Vivian Tan, a spokeswoman for the United Nations high commissioner for refugees. About 160, 000 vulnerable people have been cut off from health care, school feedings and maternal care, she said. Most of the aid workers who should be tending to the displaced have been forced to leave the area and have been refused travel permits to return, Mr. Smith said. The office of the state counselor, which Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi presides over, is in charge of travel permits for the Rakhine region. Of 26 workers distributing aid before Oct. 9, only six were still there, he said. Like many who admired Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s steadfastness during 15 years of house arrest under the former junta, Mr. Giannini, the Harvard Law professor, said he was baffled by her failure to speak out. “She says she is a politician,” he noted. “You can have politics and you can have protection of the civilian population at the same time. ”