’  ’ ’   Netflix’’s new series ”Stranger Things” is a monster hit. ’ ’   It currently has a 94% Rotten Tomatoes  a 96%  and it has sent the internet abuzz since it was   released in  . ’ ’   If you haven’’t seen the show, it’’s a supernatural   thriller   that draws heavily from ’’80s movies and TV.  describes it like this: ”Imagine   putting ’’The ’’ ’’Freaks and Geeks,’’ ’’Twin Peaks,’’ ’’Super   8,’’ ’’It Follows,’’ and ’’E. T.’’ in one big giant blender.” ’ ”   It’s nostalgia bait, done very well. ” ’   But Pacific Crest analysts Andy Hargreaves and Evan Wingren don’’t   love it for that. They love ”Stranger Things” because they think   it proves that the Netflix model works. ’ ’’ ’   In a note to investors on Tuesday, the analysts wrote that with   ”Stranger Things,” ”Netflix has taken an idea and a project that   was off the radar of most, and grown an audience at what is   likely a small fraction of the cost per hour viewed of any other   TV show to premiere this year.” ’ ”   That has been Netflix’s pitch all along. It will identify those   seemingly niche hits that can grab a worldwide audience. And   sometimes those hits can dominate the cultural conversation. ” ’   ”Using search volume as an indicator, Netflix original series   ’’Stranger Things’’ is the biggest TV series to debut this year,   and it’’s not close,” the analysts wrote. ”In fact, it is already   one of Netflix’’s    shows ever. A show that had   limited explicit marketing, no huge stars (sorry, Winona) and   likely a discount budget relative to other premieres dwarfed   ’’larger’’ debuts on traditional TV.” ’ ’   It’’s no doubt that Netflix scored big with ”Stranger Things.” But   the bigger question is whether Netflix is any better at   identifying these sleeper hits than your average network. ’ ’   Netflix will release an insane 600 hours of original programming   this year, according to the company. That includes ”The Get   Down,” Baz Luhrmann’’s upcoming show that cost a whopping $120   million to produce, . When the dust settles from that spree,   we’’ll see whether it was a   means of driving   subscriber growth, which is the only statistic Netflix really   worries about. ’ ”   Netflix missed Wall Street’s subscriber growth estimates in both   the US and international markets last quarter  —   badly. But the   Pacific Crest analysts are bullish. ” ’   ”Despite recent earnings hiccups, we believe this core efficiency   advantage remains firmly in place and can drive global subscriber   growth in excess of investors’’ current expectations,” they wrote. ’