’  ’ ’   When Nordstrom stopped reporting monthly   sales, a very   important number for investors, an alternative had to be found. ’ ’   The answer was cheesecake, or  to be exact. ’ ’   The Cheesecake Factory still reports monthly   sales in   its quarterly report, often a few weeks ahead of Nordstrom. ’ ’   ”As we have generally considered Nordstrom’’s customer to be   similar to The Cheesecake Factory’’s (CAKE) customer, we took a   deeper look at just how profound the overlap actually is,”   Michael Exstein, a Credit Suisse analyst, said in a note to   clients. ’ ’   ”We found from our analysis that the historical [comparable    ] sales are in fact very closely correlated, as the   companies’’ store locations are for the most part in very close   proximity to one another.” ’ ’   Credit Suisse is betting that because The Cheesecake Factory and   Nordstrom often build locations near each other  —   think the   entrances to   —   they will have very similar sales. The same   people grabbing a slice of cheesecake often have an opportunity   to peruse the racks at Nordstrom in the same trip. ’ ’   It seems ridiculous, but it actually seems to work. ’ ”   A regression analysis comparing historical   sales data   between the companies shows an   of 0. 93  —   the closer to 1,   the closer the two match each other. When comparing total sales,   the   drops slightly to 0. 89. (Those values were calculated   by Credit Suisse based on historical data through 2013, and just   because they were related in the past doesn’t mean they will   continue to be.) ” ’  ’ ’   With online sales increasing for Nordstrom and a holiday shopping   spree that affected The Cheesecake Factory but not Nordstrom, the   two companies are becoming less correlated. ’ ”   But for now it’s good enough for Exstein. ” ’   Nordstrom will report earnings in   and Credit Suisse   is still tracking sales at The Cheesecake Factory to get a read   on the retail business’’ earnings. Exstein rates Nordstrom a   ”neutral,” with a   target about $3 less than the   current price of $43. 74. ’ ”   For what it’s worth, sales were up at The Cheesecake Factory in   the second quarter, but sales growth slowed compared with the   first quarter, which could mean bad news for Nordstrom, which has    by 17. 5% this year. ”