’  ’ ’   Over the last week, Niantic  —   the developers of smartphone     Pokémon Go  —   has taken a lot of heat as it moves to    which   put the monsters on a map. ’ ’   Niantic defended the move earlier this week by claiming that   those sites, and the massive amounts of data they had to pull to   work, . ’ ’   That stress had been translating into making the game unreliable   for players all over the globe, which is bad given that Pokémon   Go just launched in Latin America. ’ ’   In a  Niantic CEO John Hanke expanded   on that explanation by providing a chart that claims to show the   overall strain on the Pokémon Go servers caused immediately   before and after the game blocked a fresh load of cheating apps   on August 3rd. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Spatial queries per second,” here, refers to the number of times   that the app talks to the server to get location information. The   chart shows that those unauthorized outside cheating apps were   causing a huge inflation in the number of queries per second, as   they scraped out the data that showed where each Pokémon is   located. ’ ”   Although, as any mathematician would tell you, without a labeled     showing the quantities we’re dealing with here, it’s hard   to know exactly how big an impact they had, making this chart not   a great objective source of data. Regardless, it’s an interesting   perspective on the effect of these apps on Pokémon Go. ” ”   Hanke acknowledges that some of the people scraping data are     fans who just want to play more efficiently,   using tools like PokeVision to guide their hunts. But he also   says that’s not the whole story. ” ’   ”It’s worth noting that some of the tools used to access servers   to scrape data have also  which negatively   impact all Trainers,” Hanke writes. ”There is a range of motives   here from blatant commercial ventures to enthusiastic fans but   the negative impact on game resources is the same.” ’ ’   And while Hanke didn’’t address the connection   there are   lots of players who were only relying on cheating sites to find   Pokémon because ”Nearby,” the game’’s   system for tracking   them was  before it was ultimately removed entirely  —     . Hanke says Niantic is working   on it. ’ ’   ”We have heard feedback about the Nearby feature in the game and   are actively working on it,” Hanke writes. ’