’  ’ ’   Hampton Creek CEO Josh Tetrick fired back on Friday at a recent   report that his startup, Hampton Creek, had sent undercover teams   to buy its own products and to call stores pretending to be   consumers interested in vegan mayo. ’ ’   He insisted that it was a small program focused mainly on quality   control  —   not a way to drive up sales to make his company a more   attractive investment. ’ ’   ”You’’ve got to step back,” Tetrick said on CNBC. ”Did it have any   impact on sales, and it had no impact at all.”  Hampton Creek had hired contractors   to go to grocery stores and buy the company’’s flagship product,   Just Mayo, an eggless spread designed to taste like mayonnaise. ’ ’   ”The primary reason for doing it,” Tetrick said, was quality   assurance and quality control. ”We have all the data to back it   up.” ’ ’   He said Hampton Creek had started its series of secret ”mayo   buybacks” in 2013. ’ ’’ ’   ”If I had to go back and do it again, of course I would do it   again,” Tetrick said. ”We started this in 2013, and to some   extent we still do it today.” ’ ’   The company sent contractors to grocery stores like Safeway to   buy up jars of its mayo product, which the Bloomberg report said   ”made the product appear more popular than it really was.” ’ ’   ”To think this has anything to do with   that’’s   pretty silly,” Tetrick said on CNBC. ’ ’   Tetrick repeated that the purpose of the program was quality   checks, and it had spent just $77, 000 on the project. ’ ’   ”We spent more in snacks this year than the entirety of the   program,” Tetrick said. ’ ’ to be looking to raise $200 million at   a $1. 1 billion valuation earlier this year. The company   reportedly pitched investors that it was going to grow to $100   million in sales in 2016 but that it would lose $63 million   during the same time period. ’ ’   Hampton Creek boasts several   tech investors, including   Khosla Ventures and Founders Fund. ’ ’ that the company used   ”shoddy science” and regularly stretched the truth about its   products. One former employee called it a ”  ’ ’   One question Tetrick danced around? Why his employees were   instructed in emails to avoid wearing Hampton     clothing when purchasing mayo and to pretend they were customers   interested in the product when they called in. ’