’  ’ ”   Republicans have a message for Donald Trump: If you’re going to   lose, don’t drag down other Republicans with you. ” ”   In an interview with CNN on Thursday, Sen. Lindsey Graham chided   Trump for his recent decision not to endorse House Speaker Paul   Ryan and Sen. John McCain in their primary battles with   Republican challengers, noting Trump’s sinking poll numbers   following the Democratic National Convention. ” ’   ”If you really focused on Hillary Clinton’’s weaknesses and the   Obama economy’’s weaknesses, you could change these numbers,”   Graham said. ”That means you have to focus on your opponent. And   your opponent is not John McCain or Paul Ryan or Kelly Ayotte.   Your opponent is yourself.” ’ ’   For months, Democrats have  to tie Trump to other candidates running     from Trump in House and Senate races. ’ ’  ’ ’’ ’   For their part, many major Republican donors like Charles and   David Koch have chosen to sit out the presidential race, instead   focusing their energies on preserving Senate and House   majorities. ’ ’  ’ ’   McGinty appeared to gain a slight edge this week over incumbent   Republican Sen. Pat Toomey. ’ ’   Evan Siegfried, author of ”,” told Business Insider that he’’s not   surprised if Trump’’s slew of controversies are sticking to   Republicans, particularly those who have endorsed the   presidential nominee. ’ ’   ”Somebody who isn’’t paying attention to the intricacies of every   single candidate isn’’t seeing that somebody like Ben Sasse is   different than a Donald Trump, they’’re seeing that Donald Trump   is the leader of that party, and therefore they must believe it   too, because it falls under that particular brand,” Siegfried   said. ’ ’   Siegfried predicted that if Trump keeps up his controversial   comments about veterans and other member of the party, GOP   candidates could shift their messaging toward opposing a Hillary   Clinton presidency. ’ ’   ”You’’re going to see a lot of Republicans shift the tone of their   ads,” he said. ”While they might not be coming out and     or slamming Trump, they’’re certainly going to be   saying ’’You’’re going to need me to fight against Hillary   Clinton. ’’” ’ ”   Still, some Democrats caution against getting optimistic too   early. A lack of public polling makes it difficult to predict   whether Trump’s poor performance will have a concrete impact on   the race, and  ” ’   ”People won’t really start tuning in in any definitive way to   these races until a couple or three weeks out,” McGinty told   Business Insider during an interview on Wednesday. ”I certainly   am intending to  —   and will  —   be out there every day between now   and November 8 and fighting for every single vote.” ’ ”   But when a poll released a day later found the Democratic senate   candidate with a   lead over Toomey, the McGinty campaign   was quick to link the senator’s drop in the polls to Trump’s   deficit in Pennsylvania. ” ’   ”The campaign season hasn’’t even really started, and Pennsylvania   is already saying, loudly and clearly, that the     ticket is completely unacceptable,” McGinty Communications   Director Sean Coit said. ’ ’   ”It probably doesn’’t help that Donald Trump, just in the last   week, said that Pennsylvania is ’’rusting and rotting’’ and that   Harrisburg looks like a ’’war zone. ’’ That’’s the guy Pat Toomey   wants to be our president, so his poll numbers are just going to   get worse.” ’