’  ’ ’   RIO DE JANEIRO (AP)    The bullet which flew through the roof of   a media tent at the Olympic Equestrian Center on Saturday was   just ”an unfortunate incident,” Brazilian military and police   said. ’ ’   There was a scare during the lunch break at the eventing dressage   on the first day of the games as a   bullet   pierced the roof of the tent and landed on the floor. The   competition was not disrupted and nobody was hurt. ’ ’   ”Authorities are investigating: the type of bullet, the distance,   where it comes from, why it comes here,” organizing committee   spokesman Mario Andrada said. ’ ’   ”The first information that we got is that they can clearly   determine this area was not the target, it was a stray bullet.   They can confirm it has nothing to do with the games but they   cannot be more precise at the moment.” ’ ’   The bullet landed close to one of the media tables at the end of   the room where news conferences are held, leaving a clear hole in   the roof. ’ ’   ”Obviously this is a worrying situation and is not an incident we   can take lightly as the safety of everyone at our venue     athletes, horses, media and spectators   is of prime importance,”   FEI president Ingmar De Vos said in a statement. ’ ’   ”The Rio 2016 organizing committee have told us that the three   authorities involved in security in Brazil, the military, civil   police and national guard, have stated categorically that our   venue was not the target, and that this incident has nothing to   do with the games.” ’ ’   Andrada refused to speculate on where the bullet could have been   fired from but said the entire competition venue is situated on   military land. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”As soon as we have information we will disclose that, especially   where it comes from, why it got here and what kind of bullet it   was,” Andrada added. ”In the meantime, all the authorities have   assured us that they have reinforced security around this area. ’ ’   ”More than one source in the different security areas have   emphasized that they have 100 percent assurance that it has   nothing to do with the games and with the presence of the Olympic   family and the press in this area.” ’ ”   The incident came shortly after   experts blew up an   unattended bag near the finish line of the men’s road cycling   race. ” ’   ”We have to react to a global worry,” Andrada said. ”We’’re not   living in an easy moment so the authorities opted for the safe   side. In a way it’’s good that they opt for the safe side,   independently to the fact that this generates tension on the   communication front. We’’d rather have the security in perfect   shape than the communications. ’ ’   ”I understand it was a backpack that someone forgot.” ’ ’   In the arena, William   leads after the first day of the   eventing competition, just 10 months after being put into an   induced coma following a fall. ’ ’     who only returned to competitive action in early April,   rode Chilli Morning to a score of 37. ’ ’   Christopher Burton of Australia and Santano II are second, 0. 6   penalties behind the Briton, with reigning Olympic individual   champion Michael Jung third with 40. 9 aboard Sam FBW. ’ ’   Germany, which is bidding for a third straight Olympic title,   leads the team competition, with Australia second and Britain   third. ’