Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) Let’s turn it over to Adam Nagourney, our Los Angeles bureau chief, for today’s introduction. No one saw it coming. When Gov. Jerry Brown on Thursday appointed Xavier Becerra, the Democratic congressman from Los Angeles, to fill the     position of California attorney general, the move roiled the state’s political establishment. (Much of the speculation had centered around the possibility that Mr. Brown would choose his wife and close adviser, Anne Gust Brown, to replace Kamala Harris, the attorney general who was just elected to the United States Senate.) Mr. Brown likes to surprise. And after the drubbing Democrats took in Washington this year  —   and the defeat of Hillary Clinton, who Mr. Becerra campaigned for so intensely that he even entertained the idea she might pick him as his running mate  —   it’s hardly a shock that Mr. Becerra is eager to return to California. “Most insiders believed he wanted to move back to California, so all in all it was a pretty elegant political play,” said Peter Ragone, a political consultant in San Francisco who is advising Gavin Newsom, the lieutenant governor who is running for governor in 2018. But the appointment shakes up a Democratic political world that had already been girding for fundamental changes as its three most senior elected officials, all of whom are over 70  —   Mr. Brown, Senator Barbara Boxer and Senator Dianne Feinstein  —   prepare to exit from the scene. Mr. Becerra joins a very crowded list of Democrats angling for some of those jobs. And now he has the advantage of a perch, the office of attorney general, that historically has afforded its occupant a lot of exposure. Mr. Becerra, 58, will now be one of the   Latino officials in the state at a time when California is gearing up for clashes with   Donald J. Trump on immigration. He could run for attorney general again and make a career out of that. But he now has a platform that will allow him to run for governor, or for that matter senator. But not too soon. “I don’t think it’s viable to get appointed and then quit immediately to run for something else, but he will run for something else down the road,” Mr. Ragone said. • Joe McKnight, 28, who was a standout football player at U. S. C. was fatally shot in Louisiana in a possible episode of road rage. [The New York Times] • Los Angeles police officers were legally justified in shooting a homeless man last year on skid row, prosecutors said. [Los Angeles Times] • California faces a looming teacher shortage, and the problem is getting worse. [Los Angeles Times] • The tax man cometh: Officials look to get a hand into the emerging marijuana economy. [The Associated Press] • The U. F. C. ’s Conor McGregor is developing a reputation as someone who can do anything. But can he box? [The New York Times] • A reprieve for  : A Malibu woman said she would not act on a   permit giving her the right to kill the mountain lion. [The Associated Press] • SpaceX hopes to resume rocket launches soon, after a fiery explosion grounded its missions. [The New York Times] • The remains of an ancient elephant were found during construction on a new subway corridor in Los Angeles. [Los Angeles Times] • Honorees are crying foul as Hollywood Walk of Fame stars fall into disrepair. [Hollywood Reporter] • Most Muslim characters are on television shows that rely on terrorism as a story line. Can that change? [The New York Times] • Emma Watson and Miles Teller were set to be the leads in the critically acclaimed “La La Land. ” Then they weren’t. [The New York Times] • Book Review: “Let There Be Laughter” by Michael Krasny, the San Francisco radio host, is a celebration of Jewish humor. [The New York Times] See a pothole in San Diego? There’s an app for that. Over the summer, the city introduced “Get it Done San Diego,” an app and companion website that allows residents to report problems along the streets and sidewalks using their smartphones. After six months of operation, we checked in with city officials to see how it’s going. Almis Udrys, San Diego’s director of performance and analytics, said the app had been downloaded roughly 9, 500 times and was used to send more than 38, 500 reports to the city. About half of those reports have been resolved, either fixed or determined to be a nonissue, he said. The rest were referred to other agencies, like a utility company, or remain open. The most common complaint? Graffiti, followed by potholes and broken streetlights. According to Mr. Udrys, the fix time has averaged around 10 days, but longer in the case of a big repair like a bent traffic light pole. There are still kinks to work out. Some app users have expressed frustration after reporting problems that fall under the responsibility of other agencies  —   for example, a bridge managed by Caltrans. The city refers those reports to the agencies, but whether they get addressed is anyone’s guess, some users said. What’s more, for residents uninterested in downloading yet another app, San Diego does not offer the convenient 311 phone reporting system used in other cities like San Francisco and Los Angeles. Mr. Udrys said San Diego hoped to introduce one in the “next few years. ” Reviews of the “Get it Done” app in the iPhone store and Android website, as well as in a recent discussion on Reddit, the online forum, have been generally positive. Karl Decker, 38, said he used the app to report a curb that needed a fresh coat of red paint outside his house. Workers took care of it in less than a week. “I was just really, really impressed,” he said. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.