’  ’ ’   TEHRAN, Iran  —   Former   Iranian President Mahmoud   Ahmadinejad sent a letter on Monday to President Barack Obama,   asking him to ”quickly fix” a US Supreme Court ruling allowing   families of people killed in attacks linked to Iran to collect   damages from some $2 billion in frozen assets. ’ ’   While writing that his letter ”is by no means of (a) political   nature,” Ahmadinejad’’s message to Obama arrives amid swirling   speculation that the   politician may run as a candidate   in Iran’’s presidential election next year. ’ ”   It also comes as average Iranians largely have yet to see the   benefits of Iran’s nuclear deal with world powers  —   something a   discontent Ahmadinejad and other   could mine in any   potential campaign against moderates. ” ”   In the letter, posted on a website associated with the former   president’s office, Ahmadinejad focuses on the Supreme Court’s   decision in April. The court’s   ruling allows families of   victims of the 1983 Marine barracks bombing in Beirut and other   attacks linked to Iran to collect monetary damages from Iran. ” ”   At risk for Iran is $1. 75 billion in bonds, plus accumulating   interest, owned by Iran’s Bank Markazi and held by Citibank in   New York. ” ’’ ’   ”It is the clear expectation of the Iranian nation that the   particular case of property seizure . .. be quickly fixed by your   excellency and that not only the Iranian nation’’s rights be   restored and the seized property released and returned, but also   the damaged caused be fully compensated for,” the letter said. ’ ’   ”I passionately advise you not to let the historical defamation   and bitter incident be recorded under your name,” Ahmadinejad   added. ’ ”   Ahmadinejad’s letter was delivered to the Swiss Embassy in   Tehran, which has overseen America’s interests in the country in   the years after the 1979 Islamic Revolution and US Embassy   takeover. Embassy officials declined to comment. ” ”   It’s unclear what steps Ahmadinejad expects Obama to take. There   was no immediate comment from the White House regarding the   letter. ” ”   The timing of the letter, however, is interesting as   Ahmadinejad’s name continues to circulate as a possible   challenger to moderate President Hassan Rouhani in Iran’s coming   May 19 election. Rouhani’s administration negotiated the nuclear   accord, which put limits on Iran’s atomic program in exchange for   the lifting of crippling economic sanctions. ” ”   While Ahmadinejad previously served two   terms, Iranian   law calls only for a     period before he’s   eligible to run again. ” ’   How Iranians would react to another Ahmadinejad run, however,   remains to be seen if and when it happens. ’ ’   Under his presidency, Iran found itself heavily sanctioned over   the nuclear program as Ahmadinejad questioned the scale of the   Holocaust and predicted the demise of Israel. His disputed 2009   reelection saw widespread protests and violence. Two of his   former vice presidents have since been jailed for corruption. ’ ’   ___ ’ ’   Associated Press writer Jon Gambrell in Dubai, United Arab   Emirates, contributed to this report. ’