’  ’ ’   The ability of policymakers to stimulate economic growth is   dwindling rapidly, and both central banks and governments around   the world are running out of options, according to new research   from analysts at Barclays. ’ ’   In Barclays’’ Global Economics Weekly note, subtitled ”Diminishing   policy power,” analyst Christian Keller argues that the ability   of central banks or governments to fix things through fiscal or   monetary stimulus if the world faces an ”adverse shock” to its   economy is ”increasingly exhausted.” ’ ’   Since the financial crisis, central banks around the world have   embarked on unprecedented levels of loose monetary policy,   cutting interest rates and launching huge packages of   quantitative easing to try to facilitate inflation and economic   growth. ’ ’   The level of easing is such that, as Bank of America Merrill   Lynch noted on Friday,  in 2008. . ’ ”   All of this policy action hasn’t stimulated anywhere near as much   activity as expected. Growth around the world  with the eurozone  —   where interest rates are   below zero and   programmes have been enormous  —     particularly weak. The problem, Barclays says, is that there is   not much more the likes of the European Central Bank can do to   boost the economy. ” ”   Here’s the key extract from Keller at Barclays (emphasis ours): ” ’   The alternative to expansionary monetary policy is the return of   strong fiscal policy, in the form of heavy borrowing and   investment in infrastructure projects like railway lines,   hospitals, tech ventures, and schools. Another alternative,     helicopter money, in which governments give money   directly to citizens, has . But both forms of   fiscal stimulus, Barclays notes, are limited, especially given   the high levels of public debt around the world. ’ ”   Here’s the extract (emphasis ours): ” ”   And here’s the chart: ” ’  ’ ”   While suggestions that monetary policy is running out of   effectiveness aren’t exactly new  —     —     fears that fiscal policy might no longer be able to create growth   are particularly troubling. ”