’  ’ ”   When Josh Reich arrived in Pittsburgh from Australia in summer   2004 to start grad school, his first order of business was   finding an apartment and setting up utilities. But he quickly   discovered one major problem: He didn’t know how to write a   check. ” ’   Stumped by the phrase ”Pay to the order of” and unable to Google   it, Reich was forced to sheepishly knock on his neighbor’’s door   to ask how to fill out the check so he could set up electricity   service. ’ ’   That experience, he says, began ”an adversarial relationship”   with American banking. ’ ’   Reich was stunned by how difficult it was to transfer   money, the number of fees that quickly began to add up, and the   fact that he constantly had to keep an eye on his accounts. After   graduating from Carnegie Mellon University with an MBA in   finance, economics, and accounting, Reich went on to work   for a hedge fund. ’ ’   But his problems continued. ’ ’  ’ ”   Reich and Shamir Karkal, a fellow CMU graduate, decided to start   their own banking platform. They quit their jobs and began   building  out of   Reich’s basement in Brooklyn at a time when there was little to   no trust in the banking system: It was 2009, the peak of the   financial crisis. ” ’  ’ ’   ”I remember speaking with a certain VC who will remain nameless,”   Reich said. ”He told me, ’’Well, I’’ve got a Wells Fargo account   and if I need a check, I just call up the bank and they come   bring it to my office. ’’ And I said, ’’No, sir. You have a Wells   Fargo account with like eight digits in it. You’’re a very wealthy   gentleman. They will do that for you  —   they don’’t do that for   average people. ’’” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’If we were a traditional bank, we would have needed 945   branches to support the growth that we’’ve had. We have 320 people   and we’’re well able to punch above our weight class. ”’ ’   The company focuses on a combination of encouraging saving   while tracking spending, all on a minimalist mobile   platform. There are no physical bank branches  —   instead, Simple   uses   ATMs inside places like CVS,   and   Walgreens. The company makes money splitting interest margins   with its partner bank and splitting the service fee on     purchases. Reich says there are no overdraft fees, late fees, or   any other more traditional banking fees. ’ ’   So will Simple actually replace traditional banking? Will users   switch their money over to a mobile platform with no      branches? Can a    startup compete with   the likes of Wells Fargo and Chase Bank? ’ ’  ’