’  ’ ”   Walmart is  in a $3 billion deal that could make it Amazon’s   biggest online competitor. ” ’   The deal gives Walmart ”a definite   on its competitors in   the very important race to be #2 online,” Moody’’s lead retail   analyst Charlie O’’Shea said. ’ ’   ”Being the site next clicked following Amazon amongst online   shoppers is very important for    retailers as they   morph online, and Walmart is aggressively positioning itself to   be that site,” O’’Shea wrote in a note to clients on Monday. ’ ”   Here’s why the deal makes sense for Walmart: ” ”   Walmart is far behind Amazon in terms of online sales. Walmart’s   online sales were $13. 7 billion in 2015, compared with Amazon’s   $107 billion. ” ’   But overall the picture looks much different. ’ ”   Walmart’s revenue in 2015 was $482 billion, more than four times   Amazon’s revenue over the same period. ” ”   All that revenue for Walmart represents untapped potential for   online sales from customers who are already shopping at Walmart’s   physical stores. ” ’  ’ ’   Walmart has more than 4, 500 stores in the US and 102 distribution   facilities. By comparison, Amazon has roughly  in the US. ’ ’   ”This combination of a massive    footprint with   [an] emerging   player would put both companies in a   better position for battle,” Stephan    who founded the   companies NewStore and Demandware,   said of Walmart and Jet. com. ’ ’   He said he was skeptical, however, that Walmart would ever   overtake Amazon in online sales. ’ ’   ”I still don’’t think they’’ll be able to beat out Amazon, but it   will be interesting to watch them try,” he said. ’ ”   Neil Saunders, the CEO of the retail consulting firm Conlumino,   is more bullish on Walmart’s potential. ” ’   ”We have always said that this is a major advantage for Walmart   over a player like Amazon in that Walmart can distribute products   far more cheaply and quickly if it finds a way to fully integrate   stores into its systems,” Saunders wrote in a note to clients. ’ ’   Jet. com is growing rapidly and  by offering lower prices   than the   giant. It is only a year old and has already   generated more than $1 billion in sales from more than 4 million   shoppers, according to Euromonitor. ’ ”   According to Slice Intelligence, another   firm,   Jet’s sales in July grew 168% compared with August 2015.   Walmart’s online sales, meanwhile, have grown only 30%. ” ’   Jet. com is also quickly mastering fast and free shipping. ’ ’  ’ ’   While Walmart only recently began offering   delivery to   members of its ShippingPass program  —   which is meant to rival the   Amazon Prime membership program  —   Jet. com has figured out how to   achieve free   delivery for half of US households,   according to Euromonitor International. ’ ’   ”Walmart will gain significantly from Jet’’s logistics and   delivery expertise,” Michelle Malison, a retail analyst for   Euromonitor International, said. ”By strategically locating its   distribution centers and streamlining its logistics, Jet has   doubled its   delivery (of its own   products)   penetration rate from 25% to 50% of US households since launch,   and is approaching 99% of US households for   delivery. In   select   regions such as New York City, Jet often is   able to offer   delivery at no additional cost to both Jet   and its shoppers.” ’ ”     Walmart’s ShippingPass costs $49 a year, compared with the $99     for Amazon Prime. Jet. com’s   shipping is free for all     orders of at least $35.   ” ’     Without ShippingPass, Walmart customers have the option to     choose between ”rush”   shipping, which can cost at least     $14 an item, or ”expedited,” ”standard,” and ”value” options,     which take two to seven days and cost about $5 to $8. Walmart     offers free pickup at stores.   ’