’  ’ ’   American department stores are in trouble. ’ ’   Both  and  reported sales declines in their   most recent quarters. Many analysts expect more bad news when the   companies report earnings this month. ’ ”   But one category that has been suffering amid department stores’   struggles is the designer handbag, which has long been a status   symbol for American women. ” ”   Key handbag brands  —   like Michael Kors, Coach, and Kate Spade  —     have been hurting recently as consumers shop at the companies’   cheaper outlet stores instead of buying   items at   department stores. ” ’   Wedbush Securities analysts wrote in a note earlier this week   that Michael Kors was the worst off of the three major accessible   luxury brands, all of which are somewhat affected by the troubles   in department stores. ’ ’   ”It has the highest direct exposure to the wholesale channel   (nearly 50% of its North American sales) but beyond channel   exposure, higher promotions at department stores and a slowing of   the category in general also led to sluggish sales and increased   discounting at retail locations, particularly” at Michael Kors,   the analysts wrote. ’ ”   To get confirmation about this statement, one need look only to   Macy’s, which has grappled with tumbling sales and excessive   promotions. ” ”   Macy’s separately struggles from . ” ’  ’ ’   ”It’’s promotional environment, and I think that’’s the problem,”   Gabriella Santaniello, an analyst who founded the consulting firm   A Line Partners, told Business Insider. ”The problem with these   three brands in particular is there’’s a difference between the   department store distribution and the retail distribution, and   unfortunately there’’s some overlap in the handbags and the   assortment between retail and wholesale, and with that, when   you’’re in wholesale there’’s a lack of control in their brand, and   ultimately the department store is going to do what they have to   do to drive sales  —   and that includes promotional activity.” ’ ’   Coach is faring better than its competitors. It has been  while it has   tried to undo its . Santaniello noted that   the company had ”done an excellent job of differentiating   [between] wholesale and retail.” ’ ’   Wedbush writes that it ”seems well positioned to deliver on its     return to positive comps” in the fiscal fourth   quarter. Wedbush says there’’s a risk for the brand, ”given a   broadly promotional environment across the outlet channel   throughout the quarter.” Coach reports earnings on Monday. ’ ’ ’ ’   Though Kate Spade saw its    Wedbush wrote in a note last week that it was underexposed, at   least, relatively to Michael Kors and Coach  —   which should have   positioned it to outshine its competitors. ’ ’   But in a note following earnings, Eric Beder of Wunderlich   Securities noted that, like its competitors, it was subject to   the rampant discounting that has proliferated in the industry. ’ ”   Santaniello also pointed to the fact that its recent novelty   handbags didn’t resonate in the way that last year’s collection   did. ” ’ ’ ’   Of course, the ups and downs of handbags have been ongoing; the   handbag category has been subject to the capricious nature of   retail. In November, Goldman Sachs said the category was . But by as   soon as March, Wells Fargo analysts were saying that . And  ’ ’  ’ ”   Whether or not consumers  —   especially fickle young shoppers who   don’t care for tangible goods but rather prefer to   —   care for handbags is up for debate; what seems   reasonable to wager is that  and, as   malls  that department stores are struggling, and it’s   certainly not helping the handbag category. ”