’  ’ ’   Delta Air Lines got very lucky this morning. ’ ’   Even though a  on Monday crippled its global operations for   more than six hours, it could have been far worse for the airline   and its passengers. ’ ’   The airline managed to work through its computer issues and get   its planes back in the air by 8:40 a. m. Eastern. ’ ’   The quick fix isolated much of the direct effect of the outage to   the relatively calm overnight period and early morning flights   without disrupting too much of the Monday morning rush. ’ ’   In addition, many of the flights affected are of the     international variety, which have longer turnaround times  —     allowing the airline more leeway to reallocate its resources to   make those flights work. However, Delta warned that passengers   should expect further cancellations and delays throughout the   day. ’ ’’ ”   The grounding of Delta’s   fleet comes less than three   weeks after a computer failure forced Southwest Airlines to   cancel more than 1, 100 flights over a   span. ” ’   ”The negative effect on revenue will be minimal,” Airways senior   business analyst Vinay Bhaskara told Business Insider. That’’s   even after you factor in how much each flight cancellation will   cost Delta. ’ ’   The failure has, thus far, forced the airline to cancel 451 of   the 6, 000 flights scheduled for Monday, Delta said in a   statement. ’ ’   According to Bhaskara, each cancelled domestic flight could cost   an airline as much as $17, 000 once you factor in the costs   resulting from the cascading effects on later operations. ’ ’   At the same time, the cancellation of an international flight   could cost airlines in the neighborhood of $65, 000. ’ ’   There are still thousands of Delta passengers who have had their   travel plans thrown into disarray. ’ ”   Delta Air Lines  to customers in a   video posted to the airline’s Twitter account. ” ’   The airline  will be   allowed to rebook their flights for free by August 12. ’ ’   With the increasing level of automation in the airline industry,   computer outages have become more common. ’ ’   In January,  across   its network because of a power outage at a Verizon data center. ’ ’   American and United have also been forced to temporarily ground   their fleets in the past two years because of crippling computer   outages. ’