’Exactly a year ago on Wednesday, we said  when the company announced that it was blowing up its corporate structure.’ ’What we always thought of as Google  —   search, Maps, Gmail, Android, YouTube, and all that   stuff  —   became a division of a larger company called Alphabet.’ ’Experimental projects like   cars and the   division Nest became their own mini companies, each with its own CEO, and were lumped into Alphabet’’s financials as ”Other Bets. ”’ ”Let’s check in on some of the massive changes over past 365 days:” ”Page, who is known to dislike giving interviews, has stayed out of the spotlight even more since relinquishing control of the Google cash cow. He didn’t even .” ’But we did learn this year that .’ ’Google  with the latest added in July.’ ’The company continues to pump out its big bucks from advertising  —   $19. 14 billion this quarter  —   but it has also  mostly from its cloud enterprise business.’ ’Google snagged Silicon Valley superstar Diane Greene to run that unit, .’ ”Though only a small fraction of the $2. 2 billion in other revenues came from hardware sales this quarter, that’s another area in which Google had a big change. The company finally appointed its first hardware czar, Rick Osterloh, to keep .” ’Google also started  its focus on artificial intelligence and machine learning, rolled out even more new YouTube ad products as it  and .’ ’Like really advanced voice and image recognition, .’ ’For good measure, the company  a formalized version of” meant to carve out time for   employees to create ambitious projects inside the company. Accepted Googlers will  to work on their projects.’ ’The incubator will be spearheaded by Bradley Horowitz and Don Harrison, who .’ ’It was a pretty hectic year for Nest. ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ”’s goal is to use technology to better prevent and detect disease. Its projects include making  to monitor your body’s glucose levels and nanoparticles that will be able to  and it just set up .” ”But a series of reports from Stat’s Charles Piller have alleged that  and that CEO Andrew Conrad has .” ”We haven’t really gotten any news out of Calico in the past year either, though, other than that it’s now .” ’ launched two public projects in the past year: o’ ’When The Information asked CEO Dan Doctoroff about a tip that its reporters had heard about the unit hiring consultants to build a city from scratch, he’ ’’ ’Investments include SecurityScorecard, Managed by Q, and ARMO BioSciences.’ ’Source: ’ ’Maris  and Krane has been there since the beginning.’ ’’ ”Google’s original plan to spread   internet across the US involved running” ’Since it announced the acquisition of the  earlier this summer, though, the Fiber team has started turning more of its attention to using a .’ ’Loon has  and the Federal Aviation Administration just gave Wing permission to .’ ”Read more about Replicant’s struggles  and .” ’The autonomous cars keep humming along on public roads, and the unit announced a .’ ”But it still hasn’t talked about its actual business plan, and its tech lead just left, .” ”Some divisions are creating new types of stock that rise or fall based on the division’s own performance, versus how Alphabet is faring on Wall Street, .” ’One of the companies that decided not to use this new kind of equity yet was the Access & Energy team.’