’  ’ ”   The Department of Justice published a  on Wednesday blasting Baltimore’s police   department for discriminating against   and   violating their constitutional rights. ” ’   The   report contains dozens of disturbing examples of   police misconduct, collected throughout an investigation last   year following the  who died while in police custody. ’ ’   Some of the most damning anecdotes in the report suggest   Baltimore police were especially liberal with their use of   Tasers, particularly on mentally ill suspects. ’ ’   The report describes one incident in which police responded to a   call to transport a woman for a   evaluation. Upon   arriving at the house, they found the woman sitting on the   ground, clutching two vials of an unidentified substance and   yelling, ”Don’’t shoot me.” The woman refused to open her hands. ’ ’   From the report (emphasis ours): ’ ’     ”There is no indication that the officers attempted to verbally     persuade Ashley in any way to open her hands or calm her down.     Rather, the officers physically attempted to force her hands     open. Ashley resisted the officers physical attempts and began     to ’’kick and swing’’ at them. According to the report,     one officer used a taser in   mode ’’to try to     calm [her] down. ’’”   ’ ’   ”Because   an individual causes great pain, it did   not calm her,” the report continues. ’ ’     ”Use of the taser in   mode three times     against a woman experiencing crisis, who was unarmed,     posed no serious threat to the officers or others, and was not     being arrested for any crime, was unnecessary and     unreasonable.”   ’ ’   In another anecdote, officers responded to a     call and found a shirtless man who smelled of alcohol standing   outside his home. According to the report, his wife informed the   officers that she had not been assaulted, but that her husband   was intoxicated and she was leaving for the night. The man began   yelling profanities and said he wanted to die, the report states. ’ ’     ”Instead of using   techniques, calling for help     from an officer trained in crisis intervention techniques or a     mental health professional, or working to connect Michael with     appropriate treatment services, the officers attempted     to physically force Michael into handcuffs, and when he     resisted,   him with a Taser five to six     times. One officer specifically noted in his report     that [t]he Taser seemed to have a minimal affect [sic] upon     [Michael] possibly due to his level of alcoholic intoxication     and mentally disturbed state.”   ’ ’   The man was eventually handcuffed and taken to a hospital, and   was never charged with a crime. ’ ’     ”The force used by the officers was unreasonable because he had     not committed a crime and did not appear to pose a threat to     officers or his wife. It was also ineffective in rendering     Michael compliant, and caused unneeded suffering     without any appreciable benefit.”   ’ ’  ’ ’   One of the more harrowing examples details the actions of nine   officers who responded to a call about a man standing on the   street with no clothes on. Police found him reciting religious   verses and arguing with himself, and decided to take him to a   hospital for a mental evaluation. ’ ’     There is no indication in the reports that the officers sought     to have Christopher go with them voluntarily, and instead they     sought to place him in handcuffs, even though he was     not under arrest. In order to handcuff him, one     officer held his left arm, a second officer held his right arm,     and a third officer attempted to apply the handcuffs.   ’ ’   A violent scene then unfolded: ’ ’     Christopher reportedly became aggressive and violent,     attempting to grab and bite officers. The officers and     Christopher fell onto the ground. From the officers reports, it     appears that six additional officers were on the scene and     available to assist in bringing Christopher under control, but     there is no indication that they attempted any control     techniques on Christopher. There is also no indication     that   techniques or other reasonable modifications     were used, such as attempts to verbally calm     Christopher, create distance or slow down the incident.   ’ ’   The   driver then exited the vehicle and used his   Taser on the man. ’ ’     ”[T]he van driver continued to   Christopher, an     individual in crisis, ”a few more times in his chest and back     area” until Christopher became compliant. As a result of the     encounter, Christopher and two officers received minor     injuries, and Christopher was transported to the emergency room     for treatment. Before the officers’’ attempts to     handcuff him, he had not committed any violent offense, and     presented no immediate physical danger to the officers     or the public at large. Christopher was never arrested or     charged with a crime.”   ’ ”   Using the Taser’s   capability  —   which stuns subjects   without firing projectiles  —   is to be avoided unless an officers   need to create distance between themselves and a subject, the   report states, citing a 2011  for   weapons. ” ’   The Baltimore Police Department ”had no policy or training so   limiting the use of   even against individuals with   mental illness or in crisis, at this time,” the report states. ’ ’ ’