’  ’ ”   Donald Trump has been hit with bad poll after bad poll,   nationally and at the state level, since the Democratic National   Convention wrapped up last month  —   but it doesn’t appear to be   hurting too many Republican senators up for reelection. ” ”   In states such as Ohio, Iowa, and Georgia, Trump’s plummeting   poll numbers haven’t been detrimental to the incumbent   Republicans on the ticket. ” ’   In the Buckeye State  —   a presidential bellwether where Sen. Rob   Portman is facing off against  . Ted Strickland  —    found Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton with a     lead over Trump. ’ ’   But the same poll showed Portman with a   lead over   Strickland, one of the largest leads that the Ohio Republican has   enjoyed over his opponent. ’ ’   That same   poll found that, in Iowa, the former secretary   of state had a   lead over the Manhattan billionaire,   one of her largest yet in the Hawkeye State. ’ ’’ ”   But in the Senate race between longtime Republican Sen. Chuck   Grassley and his challenger, former Lt. Gov. Patty Judge, the   chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee found himself ahead by 10   points in the same poll. That margin was consistent with   Grassley’s largest lead of the cycle. ” ’   Georgia, a state where polls showed that Clinton has taken a   surprising lead, saw a similar split.    polls that   found Clinton to be ahead of Trump by 4 and 7 points in the   reliably red state also found Sen. Johnny Isakson leading Georgia   businessman Jim Barksdale by 6 and 9 points, respectively. ’ ’   Other states have shown similar effects, although Trump could   still be dragging down the poll numbers of sitting senators a   bit. ’ ’   In Wisconsin, a  showed Clinton with a   lead over Trump,   but found Sen. Ron Johnson outperforming the     magnate by 4 points in a battle against former Sen. Russ   Feingold. ’ ’   In Pennsylvania  —   a major battleground for Trump and   Republicans looking to retain the Senate  —   four polls conducted   since the conclusion of the DNC have shown Trump to be trailing   Clinton by either 10 or 11 points. ’ ’   But over that same time span, two of those polls surveyed the   race between Sen. Pat Toomey and Democratic nominee Katie   McGinty. McGinty held a   and   lead, a much smaller   gap than the one Clinton enjoyed. ’ ”   The senator  by Trump’s sagging polls has   arguably been Sen. Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, who is   trailing Gov. Maggie Hassan in a recent poll by 10 points in a   race that, for most of the election cycle, has been extremely   close. ” ’   Still, Ayotte is outperforming Trump by 7 points in that poll,   from WBUR, as the Republican nominee trailed Clinton by 17   points. ’