’  ’ ’   Michael Phelps and Ryan Lochte will square off, perhaps for the   last time, on Thursday night in the 200 individual   medley final. ’ ’   The two most decorated swimmers in Olympic history have had a   long, storied rivalry, and with Phelps potentially in his last   Olympics, it could be their final battle. ’ ”   In the qualifying heat, Phelps beat Lochte  —   a sight that,   frankly, we’ve seen before. For much of their careers, Phelps has   defeated Lochte. ” ”   Lochte is aware of this, of course.  Lochte gave a brutally honest quote about where he   stands in the pecking order and what his career would be like if   it weren’t for Phelps. ” ’   ”My career would definitely be different,” Lochte said when asked   if he’’s grateful for Phelps being around at the same time. ”I   guess you would say I’’d be like the Michael Phelps of swimming if   he wasn’’t there.” ’ ’  ’ ”   It’s likely a tough admission for Lochte. Entering Thursday, he   has 12 Olympic medals, six of them gold, making him tied   for . He is also the   second most decorated swimmer ever  —   Phelps has 25 total, 21 of   them gold. ” ’   However,  Phelps is     in finals   against Lochte, with the only loss coming in the 400 IM in London   2012. Otherwise, in 200 IM finals, Phelps has dominated Lochte. ’ ’  ’ ”   Who knows what would happen if Phelps didn’t exist. Lochte may   have still lost to another swimmer. ” ”   Similarly, maybe some of Lochte’s gold medals in relays wouldn’t   have happened without Phelps’ help. But for arguments’ sake, if   that   record vs. Phelps in finals disappeared, Lochte might   have 12 Olympic medals, 10 of them gold. It would add to an   already impressive count and make him the most decorated swimmer   in Olympic history. ” ’   However, Lochte said he also embraces the challenge of swimming   against Phelps. ’ ’   ”I love a challenge. That’’s why I do the events that I do, and   going against him is a challenge,” he said. ’ ”   Lochte has a chance to add one more victory over Phelps on   Thursday night, but even with another gold, he’ll always be     in the Phelps era. ” ’   Watch the clip: ’ ’ ’