’  ’ ’   A judge  on   Wednesday after he was convicted of sexually assaulting an   intoxicated woman prosecutors described as ”helpless.” ’ ’   Although the conviction typically carries a sentence of four to   12 years in prison, with the option of more time, District Judge   Patrick Butler instead sentenced Wilkerson to two years in jail a   program that allows him to leave during the day for work or   school. He will also be on probation for 20 years to life. ’ ”   Full transcripts of Butler’s sentencing decision in Wilkerson’s   case have not yet been made public, but portions of his comments,   as reported by the  indicate that Butler felt   concerned over some of Wilkerson’s actions in court. ” ’   ”I do have some great concerns over, as I would describe it as,   ways he tried to play the system,” Wilkerson said in court,   according to the Camera. ’ ”   But those concerns didn’t seem to be enough to sway his   sentencing. Instead of sending Wilkerson to prison, Butler   focused on the length and severity of his probation.  ” ’   ”If I or any other judge sees you on a probation violation, I   have almost no doubt you are going to prison,” Butler said,   according to the Camera. ”So if you think in any way you are   getting off lightly, you are not. Twenty years to life is a long   time for somebody to mess up, and I hope you don’’t in any way   take any of that lightly.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Despite the typical minimum   punishment, Speaking to the courtroom during   sentencing, Butler explained why he decided not to serve   Wilkerson with prison time. ’ ’   ”I’’ve struggled, to be quite frank, with the idea of, ’’Do I put   him in prison? ’’” Butler said, according to the Camera. ’ ’   ”I don’’t know that there is any great result for anybody . ... Mr.   Wilkerson deserves to be punished, but I think we all need to   find out whether he truly can or cannot be rehabilitated.” ’ ’   Those statements echo similar rationale used by a judge in     case of sexual assault at Stanford University. ’ ’   Judge Aaron Persky sentenced former Stanford swimmer Brock Turner   to just six months in jail after he was found guilty of felony   sexual assault for a January 2015 attack on an unconscious woman.   He was facing up to 14 years in prison. ’ ’  ’ ”   Turner’s sentence was  and Persky   ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”rosecutors claim that Wilkerson pretended to   help the woman he’d later victimize.  ” ’   ”He made certain his roommate saw him checking her pulse and   temperature, and giving her water,” prosecutors on the case   wrote,  ’ ’   Although Wilkerson initially made comments to friends indicating   that he sexually assaulted the woman, he later walked   those statements back and called their contact consensual. ’ ’   Later, Wilkerson again admitted he ”digitally and orally   penetrated” the woman even though he  ’