’  ’ ’   On Friday, a year after shutting its western border and isolating   itself from Colombia, Venezuela  that the frontier would be   reopened. ’ ’   The news came after Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro  his Colombian counterpart, Juan   Manuel Santos, in the western Venezuelan city of Puerto Ordaz. ’ ”   The leaders settled on a gradual reopening of their countries’   border crossings, with five border checkpoints opening for   pedestrians from 6 a. m. to 9 p. m. each day, starting Saturday. ” ’   Within a month, cars should be able to cross the border, and more   crossing points will open over the coming year, the two leaders   . Prior to the closure,  the border daily; that   number dropped to 3, 000 a day after the border was shut. ’ ’   Maduro  in   what he said was an effort to crackdown on the ”” of smugglers and paramilitary groups   who he accused of trying to undermine Venezuela’’s economy and its   socialist government. Venezuela’’s border region has become a   hotbed for smuggling of various items, like drugs and   weapons, but also of consumer goods and Venezuela’’s     gasoline. ’ ’   The closing appeared only to slow, not stop, smuggling. The main   routes were placed under heavy guard, but ” ’ ”   As part of his campaign to rid the region of threats, Maduro’s   government also  living in the   area illegally, some of whom were refugees from Colombia’s   protracted civil conflict. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Now this was a move in international relations, but it really   had much more to do with domestic causes,”  a senior fellow at the   Washington Office on Latin America, on the Trend Lines podcast in   late July. ”It was because there were legislative elections   coming along. It was because of this terrible problem with   scarcities, and it was because of this problem with crime” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”So Maduro used the situation at the border with Colombia to say,   ’’well, the crime is being caused by paramilitaries, and they’’re   also using contraband to try and undermine the revolution, and   therefore we need to close this border,’’” Smilde added. ’ ’   ”The closure of the border has been a total disaster,” said   Anabella Abadi, an economist with ODH Grupo Consultor in Caracas,    The Wall Street Journal. ”It hasn’t   changed anything for the country as a whole or even for the   border states. In fact, things have gotten worse.” ’ ”   Venezuela’s currency, the bolivar, has  of its value against the US   dollar on the black market, and the country’s economy will likely   shrink 10% this year. ” ’   As    particularly the debilitating scarcity that has people standing   in line for hours to buy   supplies of basic   products, the border closure has made life harder for Venezuelans   in the region by keeping them from crossing the border to buy   more expensive but more readily available essentials. ’ ’   The border closure also wounded Venezuelan industrial and   agricultural production, as farmers and others were less able to   go to Colombia to buy seeds and raw materials that have become   unavailable in Venezuela. ’ ’  ’ ’   About 65% of arable land in Venezuela’’s agricultural Andes region   has been left fallow this year because of lack of seeds and   fertilizer, agribusiness lobby Fedeagro  The Wall Street Journal. ”Going to   Colombia to buy inputs was our only way to plant something in the   past,” Fedeagro head Tony Pestana . ’ ”   Several times in recent weeks,  to the Colombian town of Cucuta after Venezuelan   authorities allowed temporary openings at crossings in western   Venezuela’s Tachira state. ” ’   On one weekend, more than 120, 000 people  across the border, and some   Venezuelans made    to get to the border area in time   for the scheduled openings. ’ ’   ”So this [border closure] has had a huge impact on both the   Venezuelan side and the Colombia side because there’’s so much     economics, and it’’s something that has a real big   impact still” Smilde said. ’