’  ’ ’   When Elon Musk unleashed his ”” for Tesla a few weeks ago, we learned that   the automaker intends to go well beyond building cars and   crossover SUVs, the heart of its current lineup. ’ ’   In the future, Tesla will construct a pickup truck, a bus, and   most provocatively, a . All this new ”product,” as it’’s called in the   industry, set off a flurry of enthusiastic speculation.  ’ ’   In theory, it all makes sense: Musk has a grand vision of   liberating humanity from its dependence on fossil fuels.   Attacking the problems of   mass transit, freight, and   as a plus bringing an electric pickup to the people   are consistent with his ideas. ’ ”   But there’s a problem. It’s unclear whether   anyone wants an   bus, semi, or   pickup. At least at the moment and for the foreseeable future. ” ”   There’s no question that Tesla has demand. But I’m starting to   wonder if that’s demand for specific vehicles.   Increasingly, I think a lot of people want to be part of the   Tesla experience, to join the brand. This is why buyers who might   otherwise be shopping for Porsches and Ferraris go Tesla. ” ”   For the carmaker’s   history, joining the club   has meant coming up with upward of $100, 000 to buy a   Roadster sports car, a Model S sedan, and more recently a Model X   SUV. Tesla also offers leases, but they aren’t cheap, either. ” ”   Even the $35, 000   Model 3, slated to arrive in late   2017, isn’t inexpensive. The 375, 000 advance deposits of $1, 000   apiece that Tesla has taken signal a vast desire to buy into the   Tesla brand, given that no one has yet seen or driven the actual   production car. ” ’  ’ ”   The company has now made the seemingly logical decision to   expand the segments and sectors that it serves. But it’s   hard to tell if anyone really wants these vehicles, or whether   Musk just thinks they should be on offer. After all, we should   note that although Tesla could sell 80, 000 vehicles in 2016, the   market for electric cars hasn’t developed as robustly as anyone   thought it would five years ago. ” ”   Let’s start with the pickup. Just because you can   build a pickup, that doesn’t mean you should. The   vast majority of   buyers are located in the US, and   they buy   trucks from Ford, GM, and Fiat Chrysler   Automobiles. They are insanely loyal and, frankly, aren’t   thinking about why they need an electric version of a vehicle   that in   or   form is already completely   satisfying.  ” ’   The smaller pickup market has been revived in the past few years,   but it’’s still tiny and the intersections with pickup owners, but   existing and potential, are minimal. Maybe Tesla wants to create   a ”Teslamino,” an electric version of the famous El Camino     hybrid? The market for that is   surely huge. ’ ’  ’ ”   Yikes. Now on to the bus. There aren’t many electric buses in   cities, presumably the target market, and even if Tesla built one   and dominated that market, it would take decades for the   current fleets to be replaced. ” ”   Since the Master Plan, Part Deux publication, I haven’t heard of   any municipalities knocking down Tesla’s doors to get their   orders in. My colleagues and I have discussed a smaller bus, sort   of like what you ride to and from   lots at the airport,   but that market seems well served at the moment. This one strikes   me as a tough nut to crack. ” ”   How about the semi? A startup called  (?) claims   to have raked in thousands of   for a hybrid      semi, but otherwise, the semi fleet in the   US is now served quite well by all the large and experienced   manufacturers of big trucks. Electric and     drivetrains are hardly a new technology, so it’s safe to assume   that if they saw their   business vanishing, they   could make the switch pretty quickly. ” ’  ’ ”   The stuff that Tesla does well  —   producing a fast, sexy, exciting   luxury electric car and selling it for a lot of money  —   isn’t   what big truck makers do. Semis are cool. But their primary   function is to haul huge loads. Some cabs are outfitted to be   very comfortable rolling hotel rooms. But it isn’t a core   concern.  ” ’   Plus, it can already take an hour to fully recharge a Tesla Model   S battery to get about 250 miles of range. Some significant   advancements in charging a large battery are going to be required   for Tesla to develop a viable   semi. ’ ”   I’ve learned from experience to never, ever write off   Tesla’s ambitions or Musk’s ability to turn his ideas into   reality. ” ”   But Tesla has also benefited from a public that wants to connect   with the company’s story and that’s willing to pay handsomely for   the opportunity. Those people wanted to be part of a cool brand   that was doing cool things.  ” ”   But now Tesla is entering a period where it must flirt with the   uncool to grow  —   and fulfill Musk’s vision. And it will have to   move into markets where, frankly, customers are uninterested in   what Tesla has to offer. ”