’  ’ ’   Jamaica produces the fastest sprinters in the world. ’ ’   Jamaicans won 15 of the 24 medals awarded in the   and     sprints at the last two Olympics, including five of six   golds. Three of the four fastest men ever are Jamaican and   so is  from the   2016 Rio Olympics.  ’ ’   So how does a country with less than 3 million people   dominate one of the most prestigious events in world sports? ’ ’  ’ ’   In his book ”The Sports Gene,” David Epstein   writes about Yannis Pitsiladis  —   a scientist who   has studied just this. While Pitsiladis’’ expertise is in   biology, his theory for why Jamaica is so good at track has more   to do with societal factors. ’ ’ believes Jamaica dominates world   sprinting because of their   system.   Epstein characterized it a ”natural sifting program” in   . ’ ’ To put it in basic terms, Jamaica is able to   identify every single kid who has the natural speed to be a     sprinter and turn him or her into a   track athlete. ’ ”   Sprinting is popular in Jamaica. Like really popular.   It’s so popular that recruiting promising young sprinters to   high schools to compete in track is insanely competitive.   (Epstein compares it to   recruiting in the US).   Because of that, every kid who has potentially     speed will eventually be found by a scout or coach.   No one falls through the cracks. Moreover, those kids will be   steered toward a career in sprinting rather than another sport. ” ’   From Epstein: ’ ’  ’ ’   It sounds simple  —   they find all the fast kids and make them   run track competitively  —   but it actually requires a very   specific combination of societal factors. ’ ”   You’re country has to be crazy about sprinting. You have to have   a    infrastructure that’s robust enough to   tackle the logistical challenge of scouting kids,   recruiting them to high schools, and giving them   proper training. And sprinting has to be seen as a more   viable and lucrative career path than any other sport. ” ”   Jamaica has all of it, and it’s why they’re so unstoppable. ”