’  ’ ’   [UPDATE] The United States Olympic Committee   (USOC) has released a statement confirming that Ryan Lochte and   three others were robbed in a taxi by ”individuals posing as   armed police officers.” ’ ’   USOC spokesperson Patrick Sandusky wrote:  ’ ’: ’ ’   [EARLIER] Multiple reports emerged on   Sunday morning that Ryan Lochte was held at gunpoint in Rio   after a party he was invited to on Saturday night. ’ ’ Lochte’’s mother   spoke with Fox Sports. That report says she spoke with her son   after the incident. She described the ordeal as ”terrifying,” but   says he is fine now and being looked after by teammates. ’ ”   That report was later .   Axon also spoke with Lochte’s mother who confirmed that her son   had been robbed. ” ’   However, an International Olympic Committee (IOC)   spokesperson said the Lochte story is not true and that they got   the info straight from Lochte. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBREAKING: IOC spokesman: Report of swimmer Lochte robbed at gunpoint ‘absolutely not true,’ according to Lochte and USOC  ’ ’   In addition, Lochte’’s personal coach, David Marsh,  that Lochte was ”not held up”   but that he was trying to figure out what happened. ’ ’   During a daily media briefing, a Rio official told the media that   they have heard about the incident but that they ”.” ’ ”   Later, Nadine Comerford of NBC reported that Lochte himself   confirmed the report to NBC’s Billy Bush. ” ’   ” ’ ’   According to the original reports, Lochte was invited to the   party by Brazilian swimmer Thiago Pereira. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tBREAKING:  Gold medallist Ryan Lochte has been held up at gunpoint at a party in Brazil. Details on  500. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tLochte invited by Brazilian swimmer Thiago Pereira, and is now safe at  base.  told 3 teammates were with him. ’t’t’ ” the robbery   happened in a taxi after the party, citing Lochte’s mother, a   friend of Lochte, and a representative of Pereira. ” ’   Lochte, 32, is one of the most decorated Olympians ever. He won   gold in Rio as a member of the 4 x   freestyle relay and   now has won 12 Olympic medals in his career, including six gold   medals. ’