’  ’ ’   A   journalist who frequently covers civil unrest across   the country has decided to leave Milwaukee because of ”racial   tensions” that he observed while covering protests on Sunday   night. ’ ’   ”For those who are perceivably white, it is just not safe to be   here,” Tim Pool said in a  on Monday. ’ ’  ’ ’   Pool is among several journalists covering the uprising to   express concern for his safety over the weekend after the   protests turned violent. ’ ’   He said during Sunday’’s protests that he heard members of the   crowd yell comments such as ”    white people” and ”What are   these white people doing here?” and observed one reporter being   grabbed and another being hit in the head by a protester who then   attempted to incite others to attack the reporters. ’ ’  ’ ’   He said in the video that his decision to pull out was finalized   when he witnessed the aftermath of a white    being shot   in the neck during the protests. ’ ’   Milwaukee police have  that an    man sustained a      gunshot wound to the neck, but have not   specified his race. ’ ’   ”When you hear a group directing their anger and hate towards   white people, and then see several white people being attacked,   and then finally an    white kid is shot in the neck,   that’’s when I’’m like, ’’OK. I shouldn’’t be here,’’” Pool said. ’ ’   He is not the only reporter to witness tension between   reporters and Milwaukee residents in recent days. ’ ”   BuzzFeed reporter Jim Dalrymple II reported early on   Monday morning that he was chased by a group of men in a   Chevrolet Suburban as he drove back to his hotel. He tweeted that   he didn’t know who the men were, and that an armed security guard   eventually escorted him from his car into the hotel. ” ’   ”For those asking, I’’m fine. But not going to lie, I’’m a bit   shaken up from when they started rushing the car. Not sure where   that was going,” Dalrymple tweeted. ’ ’ ’ ’   BuzzFeed told Business Insider that it is ”continuing to cover   this story,” but did not confirm whether Dalrymple will remain in   Milwaukee to do so. ’ ”   Another reporter from WITI, the local Fox affiliate, tweeted that   he cut the station’s broadcast after receiving threats: ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI apologize for cutting our broadcast. It got too dangerous. Shots fired about 15 feet from us and we were threatened multiple times. ’t’t’ ’   Other media outlets have reported that police officers have been    with rocks, bricks, and other objects, and several   buildings have been  during the riots. ’ ’ ’