’  ’ ’   Univision will buy Gawker Media for $135 million, Gawker   confirmed to Business Insider, as first reported by . ’ ’   ”I am pleased that our employees are protected and will continue   their work under new ownership  —   disentangled from the legal   campaign against the company,” Gawker founder Nick Denton said in   a statement. ”We could not have picked an acquirer more devoted   to vibrant journalism.” ’ ”   Univision’s purchase of bankrupt Gawker follows a   bidding   battle between Univision and Ziff Davis, which originally opened   the auction with a bid of $90 million. Univision and Ziff   Davis were the only two companies that put in a bid for   Gawker, . ” ’   That is far less than the  ’ ’   Even though Univision has the winning bid, Kafka reports that the   purchase ”won’’t be official for a bit.” The Univision deal will   require approval from a US   judge. ’ ’   It will also be interesting to see how Gawker fits into   Univision, whose new media enterprise, Fusion, Gawker has   . ’ ”   The sale to Univision doesn’t mean that Gawker’s appeals process   on the $140 million verdict won by Hulk Hogan will stop, however.   Denton, who was forced to file personal bankruptcy because of the   case, has been vocal about Gawker’s plans to appeal  —   using the   funds set aside from the sale. ” ’   In June, Gawker Media filed for Chapter 11 in a move that allowed   it to avoid having its assets seized while it continued to   appeal the verdict. That meant Gawker had to be put up for   auction. It continued to publish, pay its staff, and appeal   in the meantime. ’ ”   Now we know that Gawker’s new owner will be Univision. ” ”   The money Gawker gets from the auction will go into a fund that   will be used for future legal costs and any eventual damages,   . If any money is left   after the litigation concludes  —   i. e. if Gawker wins  —   then it   will go to Denton as well as Gawker’s investors. ” ”   But Denton, and Gawker’s other investors, won’t get Gawker’s   properties back if they win. They will get the money minus legal   expenses. There is the possibility that Denton could buy certain   Gawker assets back from Univision, if he wanted to and Univision   agreed. But that all would rest on Gawker winning in court. ” ’  ’ ’   Hogan, whose real name is Terry Bollea, was awarded $140 million   in damages in March stemming from a Gawker news article published   in 2012 that included a clip of him having sex. ’ ’   It was revealed in late May that billionaire Silicon Valley   investor Peter Thiel had  and others against Gawker Media   to try to put the website out of business. ’ ’   ”I saw Gawker pioneer a unique and incredibly damaging way of   getting attention by bullying people even when there was no   connection with the public interest,” Thiel, whom Gawker publicly   outed as gay in 2007, . ’ ”   Gawker Media was handed a legal loss in May when a judge in   Florida denied Gawker’s motion for a new trial. That meant the   damages would not be reduced. The judge also denied Gawker’s   request for a stay. This led to Gawker’s decision to file for   bankruptcy. ”