’  ’ ’   A group of six refugees and their parents have filed a     lawsuit claiming that they were denied the right to   equal educational opportunities in the US after fleeing violence   and persecution in their home countries. ’ ’   The students, ages 17 to 21, are refugees from Somalia, Sudan,   the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Burma ”who have fled war,   violence, and persecution in their native countries,” . ’ ’   The complaint alleges that the Pennsylvania School District of   Lancaster either denied students access to any schooling in the   district or forced them to attend Phoenix Academy, an alternative   high school for ”underachieving” students. ’ ”   While most other students in the district attend JP McCaskey High   School, the plaintiffs attended Phoenix, which is run by the     education group Camelot Education. Phoenix has a 42:1     ratio, whereas McCaskey’s ratio is 14:1,   according to the suit. Camelot Education, the company who runs   Phoenix, however, claims the ratio is 14:1  —   the same as   McCaskey’s. It plans to correct this information in court, a   spokesperson told Business Insider. ” ’   The suit lays out some striking differences between the schools: ’ ’   The suit also claims that at Phoenix ”students are subject to     searches, prohibited from bringing belongings into or   out of the school, forced to wear colored shirts that correspond   with behavior and not allowed to wear watches or jewelry . .. and   can be subjected to physical and even violent restraint, as part   of the school’’s disciplinary policy.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Included on the list of prohibited belongings for students at   Phoenix are backpacks, lunch bags, and even products for women on   their periods, Elise Chesson, a program manager contracted by the   government to resettle refugees in Lancaster, told . The school, however, offers its own books   and supplies, and female students can ask for feminine products. ’ ’   Phoenix operates ”more like a detention center” than a school,   Chesson told Lancaster Online. ’ ”   Attorneys for the Lancaster school district, however, say the   characterizations of Phoenix Academy are overblown and that it’s    ” ”   Some of the criticism of Phoenix stems from the pace of   instruction  —   that it’s too fast and the school intentionally   tries to turn over students quickly. Describing the benefit to   students that Phoenix provides, the school district’s   superintendent, Damaris Rau, hit back on those allegations. ” ’   ”The intention of the Phoenix program is to accelerate kids’’   credits so that they can get back  —   and we have tons of kids who   go back to [the public high school] McCaskey  —   and graduate on   time,” Rau said,  . ” So I think   they’’re doing a really good job, and it’’s a shame that it’’s come   to this.” ’ ”   Further, the school district’s attorney, Sharon O’Donnell, placed   the blame on the plaintiffs for not asking for the help they need   at Phoenix. ” ’   ”[Help is] there, and it’’s there in copious amounts,” O’’Donnell   said in opening arguments, . ’ ’   The plaintiffs are seeking a court injunction that requires the   district to admit class members to McCaskey and make appropriate   modifications to overcome language barriers in time for the fall   semester. ’ ’   The American Civil Liberties Union of Pennsylvania filed the suit   in July on behalf of the students and their families. ’ ’   ”Our clients have already experienced much trauma and loss before   arriving in this country,” Reggie Shuford, executive director of   the ACLU of Pennsylvania, . ”Rather than helping them make the   difficult adjustment by providing educational resources required   by law, the school district has denied them an education   completely or forced them into an alternative school, where they   are often bullied and don’’t learn.” ’ ” Editor’s note: This post has been updated to reflect Camelot   Education’s dispute of the    ratio. ”