’  ’ ”   Tesla is in the news so much, and CEO Elon Musk is so good at   keeping Tesla cool and sexy, that it’s easy to forget that the   automaker has been around for a decade. ” ”   It’s story is exciting: It’s the first new, viable American car   company since Chrysler was established in 1925, selling all   electric vehicles with   and   ambitions,   driven by a charismatic Silicon Valley billionaire who also wants   to send rockets to Mars.  ” ”   But the auto industry is littered with exciting stories that   ultimately didn’t pan out. ” ”   Tesla has defied the naysayers for years, dodged bankruptcy, and   captured the attention not just of the public, but also of the   traditional car business. But that doesn’t mean Tesla can survive   the disruption, rapidly accelerating, that it helped set in   motion. ” ”   The   narrative is both aging and failing to thrive.   Pretty much every other   startup that launched around   the same time as Tesla has gone out business. Established   automakers talk a good game around electric, but the business is   still almost entirely  . No one is buying   electric cars; they make up only about 1% of current global   sales, and in some markets, especially the US, they’re   declining.  ” ”   The new hot story is   vehicles.  by   announcing that it’s unleashing a small fleet of     Volvos on Pittsburgh, jumping ahead of Lyft and its     patron, General Motors. (GM and Lyft are aiming to launch their   own urban driverless fleet in the coming months.) ” ’  ’ ’ that it will have a bunch   of fully autonomous cars  —   no steering wheels, no pedals  —   on the   road in 2021.  ’ ’   Tesla of course has its ever evolving Autopilot      technology on highways and byways right now. But Musk and his   team are taking an incremental approach, adding to the system as   they go. The new game, however, appears to steal a page from   the Google Car playbook: Go hard for full autonomy and try to get   the driver out of the picture as soon as possible. ’ ’   The wind has shifted. So will Tesla be able to change course? ’ ”   It’s a legitimate question, because Tesla currently   has a lot on its plate. Let’s just run through it   all: ” ”   The critical issue is that Tesla, in succeeding as a car company,   is now suffering the price of that success. It may have a market   cap nearing that of Ford and GM, a pair of      automakers, but it’s enduring serious developmental pains as it   strives to achieve    manufacturing scale.  ” ’   And because the car business, electric or otherwise, is so   capital intensive, Tesla is no longer in a position to   run like a lean startup. Musk hopes to radically improve the   production process, but no one has made a significant leap since   Toyota in the 1980s. ’ ’   Building anything as complicated as cars in industrial   volumes challenges the Silicon Valley ethos of ”go fast and fix   it later.” A   vehicle that’’s designed to go 80 mph   just isn’’t the same as a software platform or a smartphone. ’ ’  ’ ”   Autonomy isn’t the core business of any global carmakers, so they   have the luxury of exploring it as a side project. Autonomy is   potentially integral to Uber’s future business, given that   eliminating the cost of human drivers would monumentally enhance   prospects for profits. So for CEO Travis Kalanick, owning a   capable fully autonomous technology, of the sort that could   develop out of the Pittsburgh pilot project, is vital. ” ”   It remains to be seen whether the autonomous leap we’re currently   witnessing in its first stage will go according to expectations.   The real world is a messy place, and humans are optimized by   evolution to deal with mess. Computers aren’t.  ” ”   For Tesla, the risk that it will get steamrolled by a   disruption of the disruption that it set in motion is   substantial. I wouldn’t consider this unusual. Sometimes, a   transitional company has to set the stage for a future that it   can’t participate in.  ” ”   That said, the only automaker that has a very advanced and thus   far quite safe   technology on the road, every day, in   thousands of cars, is still Tesla. That advantage can’t be   discounted. But it shouldn’t encourage Tesla to get too   comfortable.  ”