’  ’ ”   Brazil won its   Olympic gold medal in men’s soccer on   Saturday, beating Germany   in penalty kicks.  ” ”   Neymar, the team’s captain and the country’s biggest soccer   star, converted the fifth and final penalty kick to win the game.   Afterwards  —   indeed, almost at the exact moment the ball   appeared to cross the    —   Neymar broke down in tears like   we’ve never seen him before.  ” ”   Here’s Neymar:  ” ’  ’ ”   His teammates didn’t even have time to mob him before the tears   were pouring down his face:  ” ’  ’ ”   It’s a terrific moment  —   not just for Neymar, but for the entire   country. Brazil, somehow, had never won a gold medal in Olympic   men’s soccer, and to do it on their home turf is special.   What’s even more special is that they managed to do it   against Germany, the country that beat them in the World Cup   semifinal,   back in 2014. That game, remember, was also   in Brazil and considered a national embarrassment.  ” ”   The pressure on the Brazilian soccer players was enormous, and   nobody felt that more than Neymar. He faced harsh   criticism leading up to the Games, and throughout his side’s   lackluster start to the tournament the weight fell on his   shoulders. ” ”   But in the final, the Barcelona star showed why he’s one of the   best in the world. In the first half, he put the host nation   in the lead with a   free kick. The ball curled   over the wall and hit the bottom of the crossbar, bouncing down   and across the line. ” ’   The goalie had no chance, even if he was just fingertips away: ’ ’  ’ ’   Germany equalized in the second half, which set up the dramatics   in extra time and then penalty kicks. ’ ”   The decision to have Neymar shoot fifth was certainly a   questionable one. If a Brazilian player had missed, there   could have been a scenario in which Germany won and Neymar   wouldn’t even had had a chance to shoot. Imagine the   critics if that had happened. ” ”   Luckily, it didn’t. Instead, we get the ending to the Olympic   soccer that Brazil deserves.  ”