’  ’ ”   When Nike decided it was getting out of the golf equipment   business  —   including clubs, balls, and bags  —   it took a lot of   people by surprise. The company has invested hundreds of millions   of dollars in its golf business over the past decade, and   sponsorships of Tiger Woods and Rory McIlroy alone cost Nike   about $40 million to $60 million annually. In fact, Woods, who   signed a $40 million deal with the company in 1996, was the   catalyst for Nike’s entry into the club and ball business. ” ”   With club sales falling and interest in golf generally slowing,   Nike has decided to focus on apparel and shoes. But there’s more   to it than golf’s decline, and when you take a step back and look   at it, the move makes all the sense in the world. It could even   lead Nike to make more money on golf than ever before. ” ’   When Nike entered the golf business in a big way, it tried to do   everything all at once. After Woods signed his   $40   million sponsorship deal, Nike clubs, balls, bags, shirts, and   shoes were suddenly in every sporting goods store in the country.   Nike Golf was on the map. ’ ”   But as the past two decades have unfolded, some flaws in Nike’s   golf strategy have emerged that explain why it makes sense to   drop hardware and focus on golf apparel and shoes. ” ”   All three of these factors are driving Nike’s decision to get out   of making golf equipment, and it may be a good move for the   company’s bottom line. ” ’   As much as golf may appear to be a business with lots of money   for club manufacturers, it has historically been a very tough   business. Below is a chart of revenue and net income for Callaway   Golf since 2000. As you can see, revenue has been flat and   profits have trended lower. ’ ’  ’ ”   The challenges also go well beyond Callaway. Acushnet Holdings,   which owns the Titleist and Pinnacle brands and is preparing for   an initial public offering, puts a positive spin on the industry,   but even it said sales fell from $1. 54 billion in 2014 to $1. 5   billion last year. Combined net income from 2011 through 2015 was   $22. 9 million. That’s right. One of the biggest names in golf   averaged less than $5 million in net income over the past five   years. ” ”   Both of these businesses include some apparel, but clubs and golf   balls are their bread and butter. And it’s clearly not as   profitable a business as you might think. Nike doesn’t break out   its margins in golf equipment versus apparel, but the company can   most likely make just as much profit  —   or more  —   by cutting the   equipment business out of the picture. ” ”   Leaving the golf equipment business won’t be a huge deal for Nike   long term. It generated $706 million in revenue in fiscal 2016,   compared with $27. 2 billion for the entire company. And, as I   mentioned, the move may lead to a more profitable golf business   overall. ” ’   What will be worth watching is whether Callaway, Titleist,   TaylorMade, and other equipment companies will be able to   generate more income from the reduced competition. In theory,   they will be able to increase volumes, lower cost per unit in   manufacturing, and even spend less on sponsorships with Nike out   of the business. But that may be wishful thinking, and this could   continue to be little more than a breakeven business for   investors  —   something Nike found out the hard way. ’