’  ’ ’     wants to completely change your     experience. ’ ’   In July, the auto company unveiled its vision for the aptly named     —   a semiautonomous bus that successfully completed   a   route that included traffic lights, tunnels, and   navigating around pedestrians. ’ ’   To create the Future Bus, Mercedes built upon its platform for   autonomous trucks to create a system optimized for buses dubbed   City Pilot. It uses camera systems, radar sensors, and GPS to   navigate safely. ’ ’   But even though the Future Bus has autonomous features, Mercedes   does not plan on releasing a fully driverless Future Bus. ’ ’   ”Driverless buses are not currently legally possible on public   roads. Furthermore, this is not our aim,” Andreas Mink,   director of engineering electronics for the bus project, told   Business Insider in an email. ”On the contrary, the   driver’’s job involves a lot of responsibility, and we want to   make this job as easy as we can rather than do away with it.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Where Mercedes is really pushing the envelope with its driverless   bus is with its interior design that’’s composed of   three different areas. The central area is called the   ”express zone” and is reserved space for standing passengers who   have a short trip ahead. In the back there is a ”lounge zone” for   people who have longer trips ahead, and then there’’s a ”service   zone” near the driver where passengers can look up information. ’ ’   ”The interior design of the Future Bus offers numerous ideas for   rethinking the    partitioning of the passenger   compartment, which has remained essentially unchanged for   decades,” Mink said. ”The aim of the interior design is to make   the passenger compartment seem more relaxed and less strictly   compartmentalized. It creates both open spaces as well as niches   and areas to withdraw into.” ’ ”   Whether people will follow the seating arrangement will have to   be seen, and Mink said that there won’t be any features to guide   people to the right area. But it’s an interesting attempt to   change the typically cramped bus interior, and Mink said that it   still fits the standard 105 people. ” ’  ’ ’   Mercedes is also claiming that the future bus will be more     than buses on the road, thanks to it being   semiautonomous. ’ ’   ”We are expecting a substantial reduction in fuel consumption   [because of] the optimized acceleration and the anticipatory   driving style thanks to early detection of bus stops and traffic   lights as well as the influence networking has on these aspects,”   he said. ”The consistent driving style lowers fuel consumption   and therefore emissions, reduces wear, and is also    .” ’ ’   But it could also come with an electric drive system later on,   Mink added. ’ ”   It’s still unclear when we’ll see the Future Bus on the road, but   Mercedes is investing roughly $227 million to develop its city   buses by 2020. Mink added that the bus still needs further   testing and that Mercedes is planning to add more     features before it rolls out. ”