’  ’ ’   A growing group of   advocates and lawmakers,   including Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, are now urging the US   Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to cease its use of private   prisons for undocumented immigrants. ’ ”   The calls come after last week’s news that the US  with     prison companies for federal inmates. ” ”   A damning inspector general’s report had earlier declared that    than their     counterparts. ” ”   The DOJ’s move was hailed by some as a progressive step toward   national prison reform, but  for not going far enough. Just 22, 000 of   the country’s 2 million prisoners are federal inmates housed in   private prisons. ” ’   Meanwhile, US immigration authorities use private prisons to   house 62% of the roughly 400, 000 people detained each year by US   Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). ’ ’’ ’   On Monday, Sanders issued a joint  with Democratic Rep. Raul M. Grijalva of Arizona,   calling on Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson to phase out   contracts with   prison companies by declining to renew   them or reducing their scope. ’ ’   ”Given the impact on detainees, the high cost to taxpayers and   the Department of Justice’’s recent decision, we believe the   Department of Homeland Security can and should immediately begin   phasing out   privately run immigration detention   facilities,” the letter read. ’ ’   They’’re not the only ones to issue a public call on the DHS to   end its use of private prisons. The New York Times ran an   editorial on Monday calling the ICE detention facilities a   ”national shame” with ”hellish conditions,” urging the department   to follow in the DOJ’’s footsteps. ’ ’   ”They are notoriously violent and dysfunctional, operating even   more opaquely than   facilities, while paying miserable   wages,” the editorial read. ’ ’   Privately run ICE facilities have long been under scrutiny from   organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)   which in a  documented ”dangerous, squalid, and tense   conditions” in the detention centers. ’ ”   According to the ACLU’s investigation, detainees across the five   facilities it examined were subject to conditions of overcrowding   and extreme isolation, as well as insufficient medical care and   lack of family contact. ” ”   In a  last week, Carl Takei of the ACLU’s National Prison   Project slammed ICE for ignoring criticisms of its     contractors and continuing to renew contracts with private   companies. ” ’   ”Now that the Justice Department has firmly declared its own   private prison experiment to be a failure, any attempt by ICE to   defend its continued relationships with these companies will ring   hollow,” Takei said. ’ ’     companies like the GEO Group and Corrections Corp.   of America have been shifting their strategy for some time toward   ICE facilities, according to Christopher Petrella, a   lecturer at Bates College and member of Grassroots Leadership, an   advocacy group that studies private prisons. ’ ’   ”They’’ve been lobbying the Department of Homeland Security,   in particular, very heavily,” Petrella told Business Insider.   ”ICE is the growth sector  —   and I am loath to use that   language because we’’re talking about human beings here. But   from ICE and GEO’’s perspective, that’’s the discourse that they   use.” ’ ’   ICE did not comment on Sanders and  ’ ’   ”US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) remains committed   to providing a safe and humane environment for all those in its   custody,” spokeswoman Jennifer Elzea said in the statement. ’