’  ’ ”   Just 16 counties in the US are driving the use of the death   penalty, despite a nationwide movement away from the   sentence, a  from the Harvard Law School’s Fair Punishment   Project has found. ” ’   The ”outlier counties”  —   scattered throughout Alabama, Florida,   California, Louisiana, Nevada, Texas, and Arizona  —   have each   imposed five or more death sentences between 2010 and 2015, a   major departure from the overall downward trend in death penalty   use since it peaked in 1996 with 315. ’ ’   The report determined that the reasons behind the counties’’   deviation can be boiled down to three ”structural failures” that   they tend to have in common: overzealous prosecutors, inadequate   defense lawyers, and racial bias and exclusion. ’ ’   The outcomes of these sentencings, according to the report,   regularly resulted in wrongful convictions and excessive   punishment of young people, or those who suffer from mental   illnesses or disabilities. ’ ’   ”Studies have shown [death sentences] to be extremely expensive,   prone to error, applied in discriminatory ways, and imposed upon   the most vulnerable, rather than the most culpable people,” the   report said. ’ ’’ ’   For instance, in Maricopa County, Arizona, the report found that   a disproportionate 57% of those sentenced to death between 2010   and 2015 were people of color. The county is notable for   drawing national scrutiny in recent days  —   its sheriff,   Joe Arpaio, was referred by a federal judge for criminal contempt   charges last week after he allegedly  meant to prevent his   office from racially profiling Latinos. ’ ’   Arpaio has been accused by the Department of Justice of   overseeing the ”.” ’ ’   The report also looked into Duval County, Florida, where 87% of   its death sentences since 2010 have been used on     defendants. The report attributed much of the county’’s outlier   status to State Attorney Angela Corey, who is currently   campaigning for   and was dubbed the ”cruelest   prosecutor in America” last week by  magazine. ’ ”   Corey slammed the Fair Sentencing Project’s statistics as being   unfair in an  on Tuesday. ” ”   The study’s focus on 16 counties hearkens back to Supreme Court   Justice  in the 2015 Glossip v. Gross case, in   which he pegged geography as being a major factor in determining   which defendants are sentenced to death. ” ’   ”Within a death penalty State, the imposition of the death   penalty heavily depends on the county in which a defendant is   tried,” Breyer wrote. ’ ’   The report, released Tuesday, examined just eight of the 16   counties, while a second report detailing the remaining   eight is set to be released in September. ’