’  ’ ’   Ten years ago, when  learned the story of   —   a 1970s TV reporter in Sarasota, Florida, who was   the first person to commit suicide on live television  —   two   things instantly came to him: ”How do you make a film about   someone who kills themselves?” and ”I need to see the footage.” ’ ’   With the most mundane moments of our lives now able to be   captured and immediately put online for the world to see, Greene   was shocked to find that not only was no footage of the Chubbuck   suicide online, but there was no video of the reporter period. ’ ’   ”She went on television to commit suicide so people would see it,   and that has been lost,” Greene told Business Insider. ”There’’s   such pathetic irony to that.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Greene began making movies that walked the line between   nonfiction and fiction  —   like 2012’’s ”,” which looks at the independent     circuit, and 2014’’s ”,”   an intimate study of character actress Brandy Burre (”The Wire”). ’ ”   But as the years passed, Greene couldn’t escape the Chubbuck   story. ” ”   With Chubbuck essentially a   folk story  —   the footage   of it still hadn’t surfaced  —   he decided to start the Chubbuck   project, but with a unique angle. ” ’   ”I never wanted to make a straightforward story,” Greene said.   ”The title of the movie actually became the full idea.” ’ ’   ”Kate Plays Christine,” which opens in select theaters Tuesday   and premiered earlier this year at the Sundance Film Festival   amid much conversation, is a part documentary, part fictionalized   narrative that explores Chubbuck through actress  (”House of Cards,” ”The Girlfriend Experience”). ’ ”   Sheil plays Chubbuck in scripted scenes depicting key moments   leading up to her death while also chronicling Sheil’s journey in   Sarasota by talking to people who knew Chubbuck. ” ’   Greene captures the similarities between the women  —   Chubbuck’’s   frustrations about not being taken seriously as a journalist in a     industry; Sheil’’s concerns about being pigeonholed   into one type of character  —   while also delving into Sheil’’s   struggles to truthfully represent Chubbuck in the scripted scenes   with little to no source material. (Sheil is actually not the   only actress to play Chubbuck in a Sundance movie; Rebecca Hall   plays her in ”,”   which opens in theaters in October.) ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Kate is the film,” Greene said. ”Kate is someone I’’m friends   with but also someone I find very interesting to watch on screen   because I don’’t know where things come from, and as a documentary   filmmaker, I’’m fascinated by that.” ’ ’   Sheil acknowledges, however, that her performance is not without   some dramatics for the camera. ’ ’   ”It’’s simultaneously genuine and completely fabricated,” Sheil   told Business Insider. ”It’’s me knowing what Robert was trying to   do, being frustrated by that, but playing it up.” ’ ”   For example, in one scene, Sheil tries to do one of the scripted   scenes but stops and tells Greene it’s not working. When one of   her costars gives her encouragement, Sheil lashes out at her.   When asked how real that scene was, Sheil said she would never   talk to another actor that way in real life. ” ’   But that aspect of performing for the camera was something Greene   wanted to explore in the film, since many documentaries are not   as authentic as we may think. ’ ’   ”If you have a camera, you have a performance  —   that’’s just a   fact,” Greene said. ”Most documentaries are so eager to hide that   because authenticity is this gift to the audience: ’’I didn’’t make   this up. ’’ But it’’s a film  —   it’’s not reality. One of the things   we’’re trying to do in the film is to take that as a starting   point, not an endpoint.” ’ ’  ’ ’   And then there was the ending of the movie. Did the filmmakers   want to reenact a suicide? What of substance would it give the   audience? ’ ”   Greene and Sheil said they didn’t come up with the film’s ending   until the night before they shot it. ” ’   ”I didn’’t want to pull the trigger, but flying down to Florida,   the plan was to reenact the suicide,” Sheil said. ’ ”   Going back and forth with ideas, the two along with   cinematographer  finally landed on an ending they agreed on (it was   filmed on the 41st anniversary of Chubbuck’s death) which was   greatly influenced by a discovery they made in the reporting for   the movie. ” ’   ”The ending, to me, is everything I care about in movies,” Greene   said. ”The way it came about was a very documentary way. We have   a scene and we’’ve talked to people, and now it’’s an absolute   collision of fiction and nonfiction.” ’ ’   A melodrama wrapped in an investigative documentary, ”Kate Plays   Christine” is a unique story that explores depression, female   stereotypes, and privacy in a time when   is the norm. ’ ”   It’s a movie that will leave you with more questions than   answers, and Greene wouldn’t have it any other way. ” ’   ”The point of the movie is this is what it takes to tell this   story,” he said. ”So when the audience is asking, ’’Is it real? ’’  —     ’’Is Kate deciding to do that, or did Robert tell her to do that? ’’    —   we’’re inviting those thoughts because most films don’’t invite   those thoughts, and it’’s fruitful because I think that is the   nature of the Christine Chubbuck story.” ’ ’ ’