’  ’ ’   Department stores and specialty retailers have faced declining   sales recently. ’ ”   Macy’s recently announced that it will be  right on the heels of its sixth quarter   of declining sales. ” ”   There’s are myriad reasons why stores could be struggling, but   there may be a problem that few people are addressing: There   haven’t been any items in stores that consumers think they need   to have. ” ’   ”Since  ’’s strong   denim cycle, apparel   retailing has suffered from a dearth of   items, save the   athletic bright spot,” RBC Capital Markets analysts wrote in a   recent report. ’ ”   RBC isn’t the first to notice this. ” ’  ’ ’   In the winter, Gabriella Santaniello, analyst and founder of   consulting firm A Line Partners, pointed out something similar to   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”What we see is there really haven’’t been any major shifts in   trend,” she said, noting how the most recent major trend was   when skinny jeans made it onto the market, much like RBC. ’ ’   ”The trends kind of stayed the same, so a lot of these customers   already have what they’’re looking for in their closet, and it   comes to, ’’OK, what am I going to spend on? ’’” Santaniello said.   ”Unless there’’s a major new trend, it’’s sort of   and   nobody’’s really willing to spend the money on something that is   just part of their . .. assortment.” ’ ’   As a result, stores like  because people can just fill in their   wardrobes with affordable, stylish  —   and disposable  —   apparel   without having to invest too much of their   cash on   ephemeral trends. ’ ’   This could be ameliorated if retailers were bold, but no major   retailer is stepping up to fix this problem. ’ ’   ”No one’’s really had the courage to actually put forth, ’’This is   a trend,’’” Santaniello said. ’ ”   At the time, she pointed to bootcut jeans, which were having a   comeback. Much like the recently revived flare jeans, they don’t   require people to buy new merchandise  —   they can just dig up   old items that they previously bought. ” ”   Quite simply, retailers aren’t giving consumers a need to go   shopping, let alone a compelling reason to . ” ”   And some stores,     that have tried have gone too far from the middle,   trying to be trendy but ultimately forgetting who their customers   are and making them feel abandoned. As a result, they’ve   struggled to bring up their sales. In its most recent quarter,    saw comparable sales fall 9%. ” ’   Fortunately, there is some hope for retailers that want to dare   to be bold. ’ ’   One place that new trends can live could be   online,   and . But   the reason why online retailers can do this, Stephens   writes, is because ”they  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”They can still carry the item, without tying up massive amounts   of capital and floor space,” he writes. ”Consequently, online is   where you’’re likely to spot the next cool, new product. Not in a   store.” ’