’  ’ ’   People in Berkeley, California, significantly cut back on soda   after the city introduced a tax on sugary beverages. ’ ”   That’s according to a study of   neighborhoods that was   published in the American Journal of Public Health on Tuesday.   The study found that soda consumption dropped 22% after Berkeley   imposed a    tax on   beverages. ” ”   The city’s tax passed in 2014 and went into effect in May 2015.   The new tax made a   bottle of Coke 20 cents more   expensive for distributors. This extra cost is passed on to   consumers. ” ”   Researchers tracked changes in soda consumption after the tax   went into effect, comparing surveys of Berkeley residents’   reported beverage consumption from April to July 2014 against   survey results from April to August 2015. ” ’   Researchers also compared soda consumption in   Berkeley   neighborhoods against neighborhoods with similar demographics in   nearby Oakland and San Francisco. In cities where no tax had been   implemented, soda consumption actually increased by 4% in the   same period. ’ ’  ’ ’   While higher costs associated with the tax likely played a role   in deterring consumers, other factors may have been at play as   well. ’ ’   ”The    reduction in consumption in Berkeley   could also reflect effects of the campaign surrounding the tax,   which may have shifted social norms,” the report says. ’ ’   Berkeley is one of the few cities in the US to successfully pass   a soda tax, though similar laws have been proposed around the   country and world. In July, Philadelphia passed a tax increase of   1. 5 cents per ounce of   and artificially sweetened   soft drinks  —   a tax expected to raise approximately $91 million   over the next year. ’ ’   Philadelphia is still the only major US city to pass such a tax.   Internationally, however, efforts have had more success  —   soda   taxes have been passed in countries including . ’ ’   A 10% tax on   beverages in Mexico in January 2014,    was associated   with a 12% reduction in sales of taxed drinks. ’ ”   While critics have said that the reduction isn’t enough to   significantly affect consumers’ health, it was enough to  for soda giants attempting to grow their sales   in the country. ” ’  ’ ”   Unsurprisingly, the soda industry isn’t pleased with efforts to   turn customers away from sugary beverages. The American Beverage   Association, the industry’s main lobby group, has already   invested  to fight laws to tax and label sugary   beverages. ” ’   Per capita soda sales have dropped  but the number of bottles and cans purchased   is still rising. As consumers have become more nutrition savvy,   many have cut soda consumption without government intervention.   Adding soda taxes is simply another step in the . ’ ’   So far, soda giants are trying to recoup lost sales in two ways:   convincing consumers that sweet sodas are OK to drink, and   investing outside of traditional sugary drinks. ’ ’   If soda companies want to persuade people to continue to drink   soda, they need to cut sugar and calories. To start, the American   Beverage Association has an initiative to cut calories from   beverages consumed per person by 20% by 2025. ’ ’  ’ ’   One way to do that is by making serving sizes smaller  —     essentially making more money by selling less soda and reducing   the effect of taxes in areas taxing sugary drinks by the ounce. ’ ’   ”In markets like North America, we are moving towards selling   smaller packages instead of bigger packages,”   President   James Quincey  after the company reported     earnings in July. ’ ”   Persuading people to buy soda in smaller cans isn’t enough,   though. Increasingly, soda giants are diversifying and investing   in healthier options that won’t be affected by sugar taxes. ” ’   PepsiCo CEO Indra Nooyi said in April that less than 25% of the   . Rather, the company is   focusing on healthy snacks and noncarbonated beverages  —   a   process the company calls ” .” ’ ’  ’ ’   Coke said in July that   sales by volume   decreased 1% in the second quarter. ’ ’   With more governments considering soda taxes on the city, state,   and national levels, Coke and Pepsi have reason to believe that   soda consumption will continue to fall. However, they may be able   to find salvation in less sugary beverages. ’ ’   The Berkeley soda study found that when people decreased their   soda consumption, they replaced it with healthier choices. Water   consumption (bottled or tap) increased 63% in Berkeley after the   soda tax went into effect. ’ ”   As consumers continue to cut soda out of their diets and   governments around the world push to cut sugar even more, expect   much of those companies’ growth to be in   —   not the sodas that   made Coke and Pepsi famous. ”