’  ’ ’   Activists and relatives of a teenage woman at the center of a San   Francisco Bay Area police sex scandal say they want to know if   any of the more than two dozen law enforcement officials   implicated earlier this year will face criminal charges. ’ ’   The woman, who turned 19 on Thursday and says she works as a   prostitute, told The Associated Press that she informed internal   affairs investigators months ago that she had sex with three   Oakland police officers and a Contra Costa County deputy before   her 18th birthday. ’ ’   In all, she said she has had sex with about 30 law enforcement   officials, mostly during the past year. She said she received   money during a few encounters and often traded sex for protection   from arrest and tips on prostitution stings. ’ ’   ”The law is not being applied equally,” said Leigh Davenport, a   spokeswoman for the activist organization Anti     Project. ”If these guys weren’’t cops, they would have been   charged.” ’ ”   The teen’s grandmother and father also said they are frustrated   that no charges have been filed. ” ”   The Associated Press generally doesn’t identify people who say   they are victims of sex crimes or their families. ” ’   The woman has retained text messages that appear to discuss   sexual encounters with officers and has shared them with   investigators and the media, including the AP. ’ ’   Her allegations were widely reported more than three months ago. ’ ’   The teen lives with her mother, an Oakland police dispatcher, who   has not returned numerous phone and email inquiries seeking   comment. The teen said she is enrolling Friday in an     drug treatment program in Miami. ’ ’  ’ ”   The Alameda County district attorney’s office is leading the   criminal investigation and spokeswoman Rebecca Richardson   declined to comment. ” ”   District Attorney Nancy O’Malley has fired an investigator in her   office who was implicated in the scandal and said she hoped to   have the investigation wrapped up by the end of August. ” ’   ”We are being very sensitive to the young woman who has been   exploited and been hurt,” O’’Malley said on Aug. 9. ”We are   working diligently.” ’ ’   The activists want officers charged with statutory rape, human   trafficking and pandering. ’ ’   California Attorney General Kamala Harris said she is monitoring   the investigation. ’ ’   ”The allegations of misconduct are extremely disturbing,” said   Kristin Ford, a spokeswoman for the attorney general. ”There must   be swift and clear accountability for any wrongdoing.” ’ ’   One of the three Oakland officers accused by the teen committed   suicide in October, leaving behind a note discussing his   relationship with her. The two other Oakland officers and the   Contra Costa County deputy have resigned. ’ ”   Most of the implicated officers work in Oakland, which has placed   three other officers on leave. In June, the department cycled   through three chiefs in 10 days when the teen’s allegations were   first reported in the media. ” ’  ’ ’   The woman also identified six Richmond police officers as   participants in the misconduct. ’ ’   Civic activist Ben Steinberg, a member of the Richmond Arts &   Culture Commission, has launched a petition demanding that Harris   take over the investigation of the officers who work for the   Richmond Police Department, which has launched an internal   inquiry. ’ ’   ”I do not have confidence in the RPD’’s investigation,” Steinberg   said. ”There needs to be an independent investigation outside   police and city control to determine if laws and policies were   broken.” ’ ”   The teen told the AP in June that she didn’t want anyone to get   in trouble and regretted that the sexual encounters became   public. She later declined to answer text messages asking if her   position has changed. ” ’   She did say this week that the Richmond Police Department through   the Contra Costa County Family Justice Center had arranged for   her to enroll in the Miami drug treatment program. ’ ’   She said the department told her the monthlong program was paid   for through a fund for crime victims. ’ ”   Steinberg and other police critics questioned the department’s   motivation for offering the help during its investigation. Police   Lt. Felix Tan declined to comment, citing confidentiality laws. ” ’   Mayor Tom Butt said there’’s nothing nefarious about the   assistance. The woman was sent out of state to get away from bad   influences and ”baggage” surrounding the scandal, he said. ’