’Howard Moskowitz is and creating or optimizing dozens of other products.’ ’Now Moskowitz says he has a plan for Donald Trump to .’ ’Moskowitz’s method, called Mind Genomics, asks people to rate dozens of combinations of variables and then crunches the numbers to see what variables matter to different groups.’ ’The marketing legend started focusing on politics around 15 years ago but says neither Republicans nor Democrats appreciated his methods. This year, he said, he decided to fund a series of studies with the goal of defeating what he thinks would be a disastrous Hillary Clinton presidency.’ ’“This is a pretty serious election,” Moskowitz told Business Insider. “I decided there’s no way I’m going to get to Trump at all to help him because he’s covered tightly, but I might just do these studies and fund them myself and write up the result and just push it out there and send it to his people with a note: ‘Dear Mr. Trump, I’m trying to get you elected. Here’s what you should say to the black population. Here’s what you shouldn’t say. ’”’ ’Moskowitz analyzed the political views of 102 black Americans recruited through  and participating via his website, .’ ’His report (featured below) found that black voters care most about lowering taxes in their community, having a strong leader, creating jobs, changing the tax code to help workers and small businesses, making college affordable, and improving the financial health of the US.’ ’Moskowitz says Trump should aim to alter current perception among black voters about which candidate will keep the nation safe (45% say Clinton, 5% say Trump) and create jobs for their families (45% say Clinton, 6% say Trump) as well as whether each candidate is corrupt (23% say Clinton is, while 47% say Trump is).’ ’He recommends that Trump avoid talking about repealing Obamacare, raising taxes, or nominating   Supreme Court candidates.’ ’Trump has been  following polling data that suggests dismal support among the group. His message  —    and suggesting that  —   doesn’t seem to be working.’ ’Crafting a political campaign is, of course, trickier than developing consumer products. You can’t release three different Trumps to appeal to different segments.’ ’“In a polarized country, how does one candidate satisfy all the different objectives? I don’t know that,” Moskowitz says.’ ’Moskowitz said he wishes some politician would openly embrace Mind Genomics and use it to define policy.’ ’“I would put out these kinds of studies of thousands of people and figure out my policy based on making the maximum number of people happy,” he said.’ ”The Trump campaign didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.” ’Check out the full report  —   the first of several  —   below.’