’  ’ ’   In a recent interview with Business Insider,  a Research Fellow specializing in combat airpower   at the  revealed why the   originally   introduced four decades ago, is still more useful than either the     or the   in certain situations. ’ ”   The   is a traditional air superiority fighter of the fourth   generation. It’s big, fast, agile, and carriers lots of weapons   under the wing where everyone can see them. For that reason, it’s   terrible at stealth, but the other side of the coin is that it’s   perfect for intercepting enemy aircraft. ” ’   Bronk says that when it comes to interception, a plane would   ”have to get up right next to the aircraft, fly alongside, show   weapons, go on guard frequency, tell them they’’re being   intercepted, that they’’re on course to violate airspace, and to   turn back immediately.” ’ ”   An   or   shouldn’t, and in some cases, can’t do that. ” ’   The major advantage of fifth generation aircraft is their stealth   abilities and situational awareness. Even the best aircraft   in the world would be lucky to lay eyes on any fifth generation   fighter, which means that they can set up and . ’ ’   But while this paradigm lends itself ideally to fighting and   killing, interception is a different beast. ’ ”   The advantages of the   and particularly the   greatly   diminish once planes get within visual range of each other. Also,   fifth gens usually carry their munitions inside internal bomb   bays, which is great for stealth, but doesn’t really strike the   same note that starring down an   Sidewinder missile on   the side of an   would. ” ’   Simply put, a fifth gen revealing itself to a legacy fighter   would be akin to a hunter laying down his gun before confronting   a wild beast. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Fifth gen fighters are not really necessary for that. .. other,   cheaper interceptors can do the job,” said Bronk. ’ ’   Furthermore, interception happens way more frequently than      combat. The last time a US Air Force fighter shot down   an enemy plane, it was their own  in 2009.   Meanwhile,      with the Baltics and the South China   Sea being particular hot spots. ’ ”   The   however, .   If the US wanted to enter North Korean, or Iranian air   space, it wouldn’t just be to show off, and according to Bronk,   their stealth and situational awareness would afford them the   opportunity to slip in hit their marks, and slip out   undetected, unlike an  . ” ’  ’ ’   In interception situations, it makes no sense to offer up an     or   as a handicapped target to an older legacy plane.     are more than capable of delivering the message themselves,   and whoever they intercept will know that the full force of the   US Air Force, including   stands behind them. ’