’  ’ ’   The terrorist group ISIS, while dealing with a consistent    in Iraq and Syria and unfulfilled  has shed benefits and raised taxes as it   starts . ’ ”   An ISIS memo found earlier this year saying the group had    for fighters by 50% was widely circulated as   evidence of the group’s financial problems. ” ”   But Adam J. Szubin, the acting under secretary for terrorism and   financial intelligence at the US Treasury Department, explained   that’s not the extent of the measures ISIS has taken to rein in   its spending. ” ’   ”Overall, ISIL is significantly constrained in terms of its   funding,” he  a publication of the Combatting   Terrorism Center at West Point. ’ ’   Szubin noted that ISIS is cutting benefits as it tries to deal   with a cash crunch. ’ ’’ ’   ”We received information earlier this year indicating that ISIL   stopped paying death benefits to families of ISIL personnel,”   Szubin said. ”That’’s a core benefit that a group like ISIL needs   to promise to the families of those going on suicide or likely   suicide missions in order to maintain their operational tempo.” ’ ’   ISIS is also relying more on taxation for revenue. ’ ’   ”We’’ve seen them significantly increase taxation rates and   increase the categories of activity they’’re now taxing,” Szubin   said. ”While they had once held off from taxing the poorest   civilians on humanitarian grounds, they are now taxing across the   board.” ’ ’   And the group is increasing rates and dipping into pensions,   according to Szubin. ’ ’   ”Where the rates might have once been 3% or 5% we see those   doubling, and we see them going after everything from income to   remittances to picking up pension payments,” Szubin said. ”Every   aspect of life is being taxed, including real estate.” ’ ’   Szubin also disputed the notion of    salary cuts   for ISIS fighters, speculating that its highly skilled workers   are probably still being paid the same while its foreign fighters   are likely suffering the most from the cutbacks. ’ ’   ”I have no doubt that ISIL continues to pay its chemical   engineers and the people who are advanced on the weapons side,   people who are helping it on the   side, the same   salaries they used to pay them,” Szubin said. ”The 50% pay cut is   probably for the foreign fighters or those who are in the second   or third ring, and it’’s a pretty significant pay cut.” ’ ’   Defections from ISIS are thought to be increasing as salaries   decrease. ’ ’   In its propaganda, ISIS paints a picture of a thriving   ”caliphate,” the name is uses for the territory it controls, but   many foreigners who have traveled there have returned to the West   disillusioned and with stories of extreme poverty and hardship in   ISIS areas. And local fighters  —   especially in Syria, where a   civil war is raging  —   will sometimes choose to join whichever   militia or group has the most resources. ’ ’   ”They have been able to attract unprecedented numbers of foreign   fighters to come join their cause based on two things,” Szubin   explained. ”One was battlefield success and this narrative that   they were moving towards establishing a caliphate. They no longer   have that. The last six months have been nothing but loss of   territory followed by loss of territory.” ’ ’   The second reason ISIS was able to grow so quickly was the   competitive salaries the group offered. ’ ’   ”Secondly, they were paying better than the going rate, more, for   example, than a civil servant could be expected to receive in a   place like Iraq and more than other militia groups were paying,”   Szubin said. ’ ’   ISIS is also seeing its oil revenues plummet as the US targets   tanker trucks. The military has also seen some success in   targeting cash storehouses. ’ ”   Despite ISIS’ financial woes, it doesn’t look like a total   collapse is imminent. But the group is struggling both   financially and militarily, and it no longer looks to be growing. ” ’   ”I do think they’’re feeling financial strain across the board,”   Szubin said. ”If you look at a number of the military fronts,   they’’re feeling strain there. I think they’’re feeling it in terms   of the public narrative. And they’’re feeling strain in terms of   the internal support by Sunni populations who have soured even   further on ISIL. They are back on their heels.” ’