’  ’ ’   He simply goes by “Mike. ” ’ ”   As a Kurdish refugee from Iraq in the 1980s, his family   luckily made their way into Norway to escape the horrors   inflicted by Saddam Hussein’s  ” ’   After growing up and joining the  served in an elite   mechanized infantry unit and eventually completed a tour in   Afghanistan. ’ ”   However, it wasn’t until  that Mike   decided to join the Peshmerga  —    ’s independent   military force. ” ’   It was at Sinjar that stories of ISIS’ atrocities  —   from the    of 5, 000 Yazidi men, to the systematic raping and   selling of women and children  —   first broke out in major news   headlines. ’ ’   “It did an impression on me,” Mike told Business Insider. “What   was worse, though, was the lack of action from the world   community, including my own government. I decided that I couldn’t   sit idly by and watch these horrors unfold. ” ’ ’   Now, returning to the same country his parents escaped from   decades ago, he fights the ISIS militia under the Peshmerga flag   and motto: ”T ’ ’   But getting started wasn’t as easy as picking up a rifle and   starting to shoot. Many of the Peshmerga fighters weren’t   properly trained for combat  —   after coming straight from civilian   life, the locals are typically issued a set of uniforms and   a rifle before being told to man the front. ’ ’   Teaching these fighters basic infantry skills, Mike and several   other volunteers from Canada, UK, Norway, and Australia have   tried to instill whatever talents they’ve learned in their   respective fields, such as medical training. ’ ’  ’ ’   However, it’s not merely enough to be believe in the Kurdish   cause, or to have a particular set of skills, to join the   Peshmerga. Due to several reasons, including pressure from   several countries, Mike has been unwilling to assist those who   want to join his cause. ’ ’   “It would look bad if America’s veterans are the ones doing all   the fighting on the ground, while US forces themselves are   reluctant to send their own troops,” he stated. “Those who do   successfully end up in Iraq are typically placed in inactive   fronts, out of harm’s way, until they’re bored out of their minds   and leave the country broke and disappointed. ” ’ ’   In the rare case that a soldier exhibits exceptional knowledge or   skill, he offered an exception. “There are some good volunteers   down here that are allowed to stay at active fronts, and in some   rare cases, allowed to take part in offensive operations as   well. ” ’ ’   The challenges don’t end there. As a volunteer in an     unit, he receives no salary from the Kurdish or   Iraqi government  —   instead, he relies solely on the   donations from his followers on social media to finance his   weapons and ammunition. ’ ’   “I have great supporters and I’m able to buy gear, food, and fuel   to my unit in addition to financing my stay here,” he described.   “We have little support from the government and barely and   logistics, but [we somehow make it through]. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   His favorite weapon happens to be an old   machine gun that   dates back to World War II; however, when it breaks down, which   happens often, he resorts to his     .   Interestingly, his first Advanced Combat Optical Gunsights (ACOG)   scope on his rifle turned out of be a useless fake  —   with the   help of his supporters, he has since replaced it with a   functioning unit. ’ ’   Considering the cost of his fight  —   $100 buys him 120 rounds for   his rifle, while $65 buys him 50 bullets for his pistol  —   when   his financial situation becomes dire, he relies on ammunition and   heavy weapons taken from dead ISIS fighters. ’ ’   Unbeknownst to many outside of Iraq, his   work   seems to be making a direct difference on the front lines. ’ ’   One example of this included successfully driving back a major   ISIS offensive near a dam in Mosul, Iraq’s second largest city.   After receiving intelligence that the jihadists were launching an   attack at a friendly unit’s location, Mike and his unit decided   to make the drive during the night to reinforce the local   Peshmerga forces. Sure enough, in the early hours of the morning,   ISIS militants came storming in at a full force. ’ ’   “We fought for 8 hours straight and lost one man   …     but we fought   them off and killed dozens or so,” explained Mike. “We were later   told that ISIS would have probably broken through the lines if   [we hadn’t been there]. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Like many wars, Mike has had his share of harrowing moments as   well. Mike described the terrifying battle he experienced when   ISIS launched one of their deadliest offensives in a year    —   the same battle that took the life of US Navy SEAL Charles   Keating IV. ’ ’   The fight was later    by the   Combined Joint Task Force (CJTF) as ”a big fight,   one of the largest we’’ve seen recently.” ’ ’   “[ISIS was] able to break through the lines and seize a nearby   town when panic broke out amongst some of the local forces. The   units guarding our right flank abandoned their posts and tried to   [convince] my unit into fleeing [with them]   …     ’ ’   In a desperate [move] to make them return to their posts, I   decided to run over to man one of their fortified positions by   myself. To my disappointment, I ended up running several hundred   meters to the position all alone   …     I stayed at that position for   nearly 20 minutes and watched ISIS breaking through the lines   with 50 vehicles and several hundred men. ’ ’   I was expecting them to work their way down the line toward me   and that I would have to face them alone  —   that was definitely   not a good feeling. Luckily, reinforcements arrived [shortly   afterwards] and we were able to stop their advance at that   fortified position. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Other than the sporadic mortar fire and ISIS’ skirmishes, the   biggest challenge for Mike and his unit seems not to stem from   his unit’s equipment deficiencies or ISIS’ fighting capabilities,   but from the bureaucratic red tape that surrounds his area of   operations. ’ ’   He explained to Business Insider that there existed a stalemate   at the front, as his unit could only advance through a few   villages and towns at a time before having to wait for the Iraqi   Army to reinforce his position. During such down times, he   says he resorts to killing time on his phone. ’ ”   Mike’s deployments are typically 3 months long, down from   his first 6 month deployment. “[That first deployment] took a   toll on me, both mentally and physically. I learned my lesson   after that. ” ” ’   After a rotation, he spends about a month of time back in Europe,   primarily with his girlfriend who is also frequently mentioned on   . ’ ’   “I can deal with the poor living condition, the lack of food and   sleep, the constant threat from the enemy, but being away from my   girlfriend for months at a time is definitely the biggest   challenge,” Mike said. ’ ’  ’ ’   But it’s not only his girlfriend that shares his concern. ’ ”   “My whole family [is] aware that I’m volunteering . .. they’re not   too fond of it. They’ve tried to talk me out of it several times,   but my mind is set  —   I’m not coming home until Mosul is   liberated. ” ” ’   As far as goals go, the city of Mosul is where Mike and CJTF have   their sights set. As one of the few ISIS strongholds that remain   in Iraq, many months have been spent on formulating a plan to not   only liberate the city from ISIS’ hands, but to prevent the   jihadists from returning again. ’ ’   “Taking part in the Mosul operation [has] been my goal since 2014    —   but to be honest, I thought we would have taken it back by   the end of last year,” he explained. “The fall of Ramadi   postponed the operation, but I haven’t lost sight of my goal.   Mosul has turned out to be my white whale. ” ’ ’   Although military officials have  Mosul to be liberated by the end of   the year, the future of the city remains uncertain.  in previously liberated cities   still exist as a confirmed threat, and the likelihood of   continuing sectarianism in Iraq poses a risk of alienating   one of many groups in the region. ’ ’   What’s also uncertain is Mike’s future once ISIS is ousted from   the city. ’ ’   “I would ideally [like to go] back to my old Army unit, but I’ve   lost my security clearance due to my service with the Peshmerga,”   he explained. “I’ll never be allowed to join the Norwegian Armed   Forces again, but I’m sure I’ll do alright somehow. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Until then, Mike continues to remain with his Peshmerga unit on   the front lines committed to ISIS’ ouster. He concluded the   interview by offering a strong message against ISIS’ forces: ’ ’   “Your mortar and rocket [attacks aren’t] impressing anyone,” Mike   made clear. “Step up your game and come attack us      —   you know where to find us. ” ’ ’   You can keep up with Mike’s travels on his Instagram . ’