’  ’ ’   Uber had been untouchable. The $69 billion   company   was like an invasive species, planting itself in cities   throughout the world and forever changing how people get around. ’ ”   During the past six weeks though, Uber’s dominance has started to   show cracks. The company ceded the fight in China after blowing   through billions of dollars. It lost $1. 2 billion in six months  —     almost as much Amazon lost in its worst year ever. And its   investors continue to apply pressure for it to go public and   deliver a return on their investment. ” ”   The hasty exit from China and the staggering losses look like   worrisome signs for a company for which the fundamental appeal to   investors is to become the world’s next generation of taxis. But   Uber’s real promise may be quite different, and the company   appears to be betting that scaling back its ambitions in one   domain is the tough but necessary sacrifice to go after a bigger   prize. ” ”   Uber’s tough August . Make no mistake: This had always been   an uphill battle against its rival Didi Chuxing, but it was one   Kalanick seemed determine to fight. ” ’   ”We are number two in China, which means that we still have a   ways to go,”  as recently as June. ”But we are putting   everything on the field.” ’ ”   While China made up some of Uber’s largest markets, the company   ultimately couldn’t support the mounting losses. Its rival had   finished a $7. 3 billion   round that included a $1   billion investment from Apple. And while Uber was operating in 60   cities in China, Didi Chuxing (formerly Didi Kuaidi) was in more   than 400. ” ’   Kalanick realized it was a market he had to let go. ’ ’   ”As an entrepreneur, I’’ve learned that being successful is about   listening to your head as well as following your heart,” Kalanick   . ”Uber and Didi Chuxing are investing billions   of dollars in China and both companies have yet to turn a profit   there. Getting to profitability is the only way to build a   sustainable business that can best serve Chinese riders, drivers   and cities over the long term.” ’ ”   Investors could be relieved that Uber is out of the     situation, but the move produced a hit to the company’s future   valuation potential. Companies pitch themselves based on their   total addressable market, or how big they could possibly grow. By   ceding China, Uber is lowering the ceiling on its growth and   shrinking its   market size. ” ”   But that’s where the story of Uber’s future is changing. It may   have lowered its potential in one market, but it’s opened up   another one entirely. ” ’   In early August, just two weeks after it was announced that it   was leaving China, Uber lifted the curtain on its other project:     cars. ’ ”   Uber’s big research project is showing progress at an opportune   time and launching in Pittsburgh. China may have failed, but look    —   Uber is solving what it calls an existential threat to its   business. ” ”   The announcement served another important purpose: It fixes   Uber’s market problem by opening up another one entirely. ” ’  ’ ’   Uber revealed it had spent $100 million to get into the trucking   business with its purchase of Otto, a startup that makes kits to   turn traditional trucks into autonomous vehicles. ’ ’   When I asked Uber CEO Travis Kalanick whether he was getting into   the trucking business, his answer was a solid yes. ’ ’   ”Part one is, yes, we are getting in the trucking business,”   Kalanick told Business Insider. ”Part two is that it is a     business globally as well. I have always   talked about the consumer   business being a     business. Now there’’s this other one called   trucking. It is a challenging, interesting, nuanced   business, and it is going to be intense getting into it, but   that’’s exciting to me. We’’ll just have to see how it grows over   time, and it is a bit early. We are still in sort of the R&D   phase, if that makes sense. ’ ”   The emphasis is mine to show how deftly Kalanick doubled his   company’s business potential. Uber isn’t just a     company anymore. Kalanick is now talking about the opportunity to   build a business that spans two   markets. The   loss of China would be negligible if Uber can conquer trucking   too. ” ”   While it’s a rosy vision of the future, one investor Business   Insider spoke with said it felt like a diversion tactic  —   a   distraction for a bigger problem for the company was facing. ” ”   Bloomberg’s Eric Newcomer  last week that Uber’s recent losses have been   both staggering and growing. In the first six months of 2016, the   company lost more than $1. 27 billion. Its once profitable US   business also lost money in the second quarter, and Uber blamed   it on subsidies for Uber drivers. (That’s one reason it’s   probably the company is probably forward to an era of     cars). ” ”   And as Newcomer  there’s no comparison for how much   money Uber has lost. Amazon’s worst annual loss ever, in 2000,   totaled only $1. 4 billion  —   and Uber reached that number in   nearly six months. Uber’s 2015 losses crossed the $2 billion   mark. ” ”   But as Kalanick himself said in his concession post to Didi, he   has to follow his head and heart and leave a market so both   companies can achieve profitability. Investors can expect those   losses to drop next quarter now that Uber is out of China. It’s   no longer a     mantra for Kalanick. ” ”   Uber’s move into   cars (and trucks) will be costly   and risky too. It’s not only an unproven R&D project, but   it’s also an existential bet that Kalanick has already said he   can’t get wrong. China may have been a black eye to the company,   but Kalanick is looking to a future bigger than conquering     in every market. ” ”   He failed at conquering China, but that’s a loss he can afford.   The Uber for the future is a logistics platform, from human   passengers to packages, delivered by   cars and   trucks. Kalanick knows he has to route Uber’s money into these   problems  —   and not continue the fight in China. ” ’   ”It starts with understanding that the world is going to go     and autonomous,” he . ”So if that’’s happening, what would   happen if we weren’’t a part of that future? If we weren’’t part of   the autonomy thing? Then the future passes us by basically, in a   very expeditious and efficient way.” ’ ’   Uber is starting its next act without finishing the first one.   But for a company with its ambitions, and a $69 billion   valuation, there might not be any other way. ’