’  ’ ’ has compiled a database of every   police shooting in Chicago over the last six years, offering   insight into police use of deadly force in the city.  ’ ’   At the rate the shootings occurred, on average police   shot suspects every 5 days. ’ ”   The Tribune’s analysis examined reports involving police   shootings from 2010 through 2015. It found that in the     span police were involved in a total of 435   shooting incidents where 170 people were wounded and 92   were killed.  ” ’     incidents like the 2014 shooting death   of  ’ ’   Activists have referred to the death of one of the  of police brutality they had ever seen in   Chicago.  ’ ’’ ’   Since then, a number of similar incidents involving police   in Chicago and other major US cities have prompted a national   conversation about police use of lethal force.  ’ ’     ’ ’   In order to obtain the data in the report, the Tribune   fought with the police department for seven months over   their failure to fufill a Freedom of Information Act request. The   department relented when the Tribune threatened to sue.  had   to seek legal action despite the fact that information were   public records.  ’ ’   Data collected during the analysis showed 80 percent of the   people shot by the Chicago Police Department during the     period were African American, 14 percent were   Hispanic and less than 6 percent were white, the Tribune found. ’ ’   Officers who shot suspects often cited that they feared for their   life. In about 60 percent of the shootings officers said suspects   pointed weapons at them or made suspicious movements to justify   the shootings, the report said.  ’ ’   ”As a police officer, you don’’t wait for the shot to come in your   direction,” Dean Angelo Sr. president of the Chicago Fraternal   Order of Police, told the Tribune. ”You might not get a chance to   return fire.” ’ ’   While the number of police shootings declined from more than   100 in 2011 to 44 in 2015, data indicated that   Chicago’s police shootings still outnumbered cities like Los   Angeles, New York, Houston, and Philadelphia.  ’ ’   According to the report,   shootings primarily   occurred in areas on the South and West sides of Chicago where   crime is prevalent.  ’ ’   Chicago police have denied allegations of unfairly targeting   minorities and made correlations to shootings in     areas that have predominately   populations. ’ ’   ”When you look at the map, 80 percent of narcotics arrests, gun   arrests and gang arrests happen in these poor areas,” Angelo   said. ’ ’   ”Where you’’ve got dope, you’’ve got guns. It’’s not about ethnicity    —   it’’s about criminal involvement.” ’ ’   Although no national database of police shootings exists,    has compiled its own that shows a   total of 990 people have been killed by police in the US this   year.  ’