’  ’ ’   There was a time when China tried hard to convince the world that   its rise is peaceful. ’ ’   That pretense was abandoned seven years ago when, in the wake of   the “Great Recession” China thought its time had come to claim   its place as controlling “all under heaven”   or tianxia, in Asia. ’ ’   Like all great powers in history, China’s emergence is   accompanied not just by military expansion but also by assertion   of its own law. ’ ’   In China’s narrative, its rise is still peaceful. The nation   built military installations on reefs and rocks in the South   China Sea simply because it claims to have owned them from time   immemorial. From the Chinese standpoint, the South China Sea is a   core interest. There can be no backing down. ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Since 2013, when Manila launched its case, Beijing has called for   bilateral talks instead. The day the ruling was issued, Wang   said: “Now the farce is over. It is time that things come back to   normal. ” ’ ’   China is getting its way. The Philippines, under President   Rodrigo Duterte, decided that war is not an option. The   alternative, in the new leader’s words is “peaceful talks”. China   and the Philippines, in effect, will agree to share economic   resources. Joint development is theoretically on the table.   Manila also hopes for vast inflows of Chinese investment. ’ ’  ’ ’    tianxia  ’ ’   China’s leaders no longer refer to neighbours as barbarians, but   they do recall that Confucian culture is embedded in many Asian   countries and that the Chinese system of writing was borrowed by   many, including Japan, Korea and Vietnam. ’ ’   Perhaps that is why Singapore, a predominantly Chinese society,   draws disproportionate Chinese ire when it is seen as betraying   the Chinese cause, not just Beijing’s interests. The elder   statesman Lee Kuan Yew did this in 2009 by appealing to   Washington to remain in Asia. “The size of China makes it   impossible for the rest of Asia, including Japan and India, to   match it in weight and capacity in about 20 to 30 years,” he   said. “So we need America to strike a balance. ” ’ ’   The elder statesman’s words were followed two years later by   Barack Obama’s policy of rebalancing to Asia, which China sees as   containment. Lee’s son, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, in   Washington, said that the rebalance had been “warmly welcomed by   all Asean countries”. The Global Times accused   him of siding with the US. ’ ’   China sees its dominance as crucial because of its own   development needs. It wants the resources in the waters as well   as under the seabed. It will continue its      policy, using trade and investment as weapons. The     Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, with   capital of US$100 billion, has begun approving its first   projects, greatly elevating Chinese bargaining power. The “One   Belt, One Road” plan will also bring investment to nearby   countries. ’ ’   China’s vital interests are engaged elsewhere as well, such as   South Korea, Japan and India, and relations are strained. ’ ’   The official Chinese media reprimanded South Korea for having   agreed in July to deploy the   THAAD (Terminal High   Altitude Area Defence)   missile system. China   considers the system a threat to its own security. ’ ’   Beijing reminds Japan of its invasion of China more than 70 years   after the second world war. In   the People’s   Daily published a commentary warning that “Japan’s   denial of past military aggression undermines world peace”. China   also puts pressure on Japan by sending hundreds of vessels into   areas near the   islands, controlled by Japan but   claimed by China. ’ ’   As for India, Beijing has campaigned for years to keep it from   becoming a permanent member of the UN Security Council. More   recently, China opposed Indian membership of the Nuclear   Suppliers Group. ’ ’   Of course, the biggest villain in the Chinese mind is the US. Fu   Ying (  ) a spokesperson for the   National People’s Congress, wrote recently that the problems in   the South China Sea stem from 2009, when the Obama administration   launched its rebalancing strategy. There is one problem with that   explanation. The rebalance wasn’t announced until two years   later, in late 2011. Fu’s explanation, like much else, was part   of the Chinese imagination, and in that imagination, all that   matters is the central role of China. ’