’  ’ ’   Violence in Mexico has been on the rise in recent months, as   fragmented criminal organizations clash around the country,   competing with Mexican authorities and each other for control of   illegal enterprises. ’ ”   Data released by the Mexican government reveal that homicides,   perhaps the most visible aspect of the country’s violence,   reached an ugly milestone in July. ” ’   The  recorded that month were the   most of any month since the current president, Enrique Peña   Nieto, entered office in December 2012, and it was the first   time the country exceeded 2, 000 homicides in a month since August   2011. ’ ”   2011 was the  in the   term of Filipe   Calderon, Peña Nieto’s predecessor  and criminal organizations throughout the   country. ” ”   July’s total tops the previous high registered under Peña Nieto  —     the 1, 895 homicides recorded in May this year, which   were the most since he took office in December 2012. ” ’  ’ ’   As  by Mexican security analyst Alejandro   Hope, these numbers appear to be part of an upswing. ’ ”   July’s homicide total was  than what was recorded in the same   month last year, while the 12, 376 homicides in the     period this year were  than the same period in 2015. ” ’   While some parts of Mexico have experienced more violence than   others, the trend in homicides has been felt around the country. ’ ’   ”In July, 22 federal entities registered an increase in the   number of victims and in many cases, the rate of increase was   double digits,” Hope  on August 22. ’ ’   The spike in bloodshed has been most pronounced in the southeast   state of Veracruz. ’ ’   The 168 homicides recorded there in July were 68 more than in   June, and more than three times than in the 55 recorded in   February, the lowest number so far this year. ’ ”   Veracruz’s 643 homicides in the first seven months of this year   are more than the 615 registered for all of last year. The   state’s governor, Javier Duarte, has been heavily criticized for    that have swirled   around his administration as well as for . ” ’   The 132 homicide investigations and 168 victims are both the   highest levels recorded since the state started   keeping official records for them in 1997,  to Animal Politico. ’ ’  ’ ’   West of Veracruz, the state of Michoacan had 187 homicides in   July, more than double the 87 recorded in the same month last   year, and the most the state has seen in almost a decade,    to El País. ’ ’   Michoacan has been a intensely contested battleground  as   (but often    ) community groups fought criminal   groups that ran roughshod over the state, while federal police   and troops attempted to contain the violence. ’ ”   Guerrero state, which borders Michoacan to the south, has seen   some of the most  in the country, as criminal   groups, fragmented by infighting and pressure from security   forces, have struggled for control of the state’s . ” ’  ’ ”   The 215 homicides in Guerrero were the most the state has seen   since the end of 2012. Violence in Acapulco, a tourist mecca on   Guerrero’s Pacific coast, has  of a   once idyllic oceanside getaway. ” ’   And in Colima, nestled next to Michoacan on the Pacific coast,   the 345 homicides recorded through July this year were a huge   jump from the 79 that occurred over the same period last   year. ’ ”   Colima, Mexico’s smallest state by population and size, is home   to the country’s largest west coast port, Manzanillo, a . ” ’   Indeed,   violence has helped drive up homicides   around the country. ’ ’  ’ ”   In Baja California, home to strategically valuable smuggling   routes through Tijuana, homicides are up 34% this year. Earlier   this year, it was reported that the Sinaloa cartel and the   Jalisco New Generation cartel, Mexico’s two most powerful   cartels, . ” ’   Turmoil within the Sinaloa cartel may have contributed to the   rising violence in Chihuahua state, which borders Texas in     Mexico. ’ ’   Reports earlier this year indicated that Rafael Caro Quintero, a   top leader in what would become the Sinaloa cartel, but was   jailed from 1985 to 2013, had emerged from the shadows and   .  ’ ’   Caro Quintero has  but   violence in the state has increased, rising more than 40% from   January through July this year. ’ ”   In Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua’s main US border crossing and a crown   jewel of narco trafficking, July had the most homicides of any   month since December 2013. ” ’   Juarez is far from the levels of violence it saw in 2010 and   2011, at the height of the cartel war for control of the city,   but, as Hope  that violence is likely to continue   until it reaches a level high enough to prompt a political   response. ’ ”   Across the country, in the northeastern state of Tamaulipas,   infighting in the Zetas and Gulf cartels, as well as those two   cartels’ clashes with each other, has . The   106 homicides there in July were 31 more than recorded in   June.  ” ’  ’ ’   The Zetas, who broke from the Gulf cartel to form their own   criminal organization, have been behind some of the worst   atrocities in Mexico in recent years, including the  in 2010 and the  in Monterrey in Nuevo   Leon state (where homicides are ) that left 52 people dead in   2011. ’ ”   While   activity is an important factor driving the   rise of violence in Mexico, the heavily fractured and opaque   nature of the country’s criminal landscape make analyzing and   combatting that activity hard. ” ’   The fact that violence has gone up in so many parts of Mexico  —     coupled with missteps and   —   makes it   harder for the government to respond effectively.  ’ ’  ’