’  ’ ’   Calls to reform police departments have echoed across the   country with renewed energy in recent years, as cities from New   York and Chicago to Baltimore and Milwaukee face increasing   pressure to police less aggressively while still keeping a lid on   crime rates. ’ ’   ”Broken Windows,” the policing strategy which emphasizes   pursuing smaller crimes as a means preventing more serious or   violent ones, has received much of the blame for instances   of   killings and racial profiling, and has largely   fallen out of favor among the public and lawmakers alike. ’ ’   But although criminal justice experts remain divided on whether   the theory is actually an effective crime prevention strategy,   they say it’s unlikely that ”Broken Windows” is on its way out. ’ ’   In the face of renewed criticism, politicians and police   departments appear to be shying away rhetorically from the   theory, but it’s unclear whether reforms within the departments   reflect any significant strategic shift.  ’ ’   During a press conference earlier in August announcing New York   Police Department commissioner  his successor James O’Neill and   Mayor Bill de Blasio touted a strategy termed “neighborhood   policing,” and called for officers to spend less time in their   cruisers and more time interacting with the communities they   patrol. ’ ’   That definition doesn’t differ much from the ”Broken Windows”   approach, according to Peter Moskos, a professor at the John Jay   College of Criminal Justice and former police officer in   Baltimore. ”Broken Windows” policing has always demanded a high   amount of community interaction as it   targets neighborhood disorder. But to predominantly     neighborhoods already wary of police officers,   the rhetorical shift may help reassure residents who fear   aggressive police tactics. ’ ”   “My guess is that because [O’Neill is] a Bratton protegé, I’m   assuming he basically believes what Bratton does in terms of   policing. If that’s true, he is going to use ‘neighborhood   policing’ as his justification to keep doing ’Broken Windows’  —     by that name or a different name,” Moskos told Business Insider. ” ’   “To some extent those optics are important. ” ’ ’   ”Broken Windows” was first introduced in a  by George Kelling and James Q. Wilson. In   the essay, Kelling and Wilson call for police to focus on      violations and “order maintenance. ” They post   that preventing   crimes such as vandalism or   public drinking prevents more serious or violent crimes from   occurring by projecting an atmosphere of law and order. ’ ’   Kelling has since argued that his theory has been misunderstood   by many of the police departments that implemented it. ’ ’   “Broken windows was never intended to be a   program,”   he wrote last summer in . “The goal is to reduce the level of   disorder in public spaces so that citizens feel safe, are able to   use them, and businesses thrive. Arrest of an offender is   supposed to be a last resort  —   not the first. ” ’ ’   Instead, ”Broken Windows” became the justification for ”” policing for  beginning in the 1990s. ”Zero   tolerance” is the    approach that equates success   with arrests. New York, Chicago and other cities’’ practice   of ”Stop and Frisk” is frequently associated with ”Broken   Windows” policing as well.  ’ ’   ”Broken Windows” was never intended by Kelling and Wilson to   result in arrests at every minor infraction,  ’ ’  ’ ’   It’s questionable whether ”Broken Windows” is relevant   to the ongoing national debate about police violence. ’ ’   Some criminal justice experts argue that eliminating the theory   will do little to lessen the propensity of     violence when lawmakers continue to fall back on policing, rather   than political reform, to tackle crime.  ’ ’   Alex Vitale, a Brooklyn College sociologist and ”Broken Windows”   critic, said he has observed few substantial changes in American   policing, despite two years of   protests, criticism,   and media scrutiny following the widely reported deaths of   Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri and Eric Garner in New York   in the summer of 2014.  ’ ’   Even after the prolonged public outcry and a rhetorical shift   from public officials away from ”Broken Windows” policing,   ”egregious” police killings still regularly appear in news   cycles, unlawful arrests continue to occur, and overall   incarceration rates haven’’t dropped in any meaningful way, Vitale   told Business Insider. ’ ”   Indeed,  in New York City have jumped by a third since last   year, according to data published in July by   the despite widespread criticism of   prosecuting those offenses, even from Brooklyn’s District   Attorney Ken Thompson.  ” ’     marijuana arrest are a perfect recipe for   instances of police violence, according to Vitale. A person being   arrested for a such an offense in the city is highly likely to   resent the police officer making the arrest. Should he or she   resist, the officer will resort to force  —   a situation that would   be entirely possible to avoid if lawmakers relaxed marijuana   laws. ’ ” The students don’t   work? Let’s not hire more counselors or fund more disciplinary   programs, let’s just flood the schools with cops. Methamphetamine   use is on the increase? Let’s not open more drug treatment, let’s   just massively expand   policing,” he said ” ’   ”Then when the cops have interactions with these people, people   resent it. And they resist sometimes. And those encounters   escalate.” ’ ’  ’ ’   At issue in most communities that use ”Broken Windows” policing   is the amount of discretion it provides officers. ’ ’   Kelling and Wilson’s theory admits there’s no “wholly   satisfactory answer” to the question of racial profiling and   excessive use of force. The best that can be hoped for is that   “by their selection, training, and supervision, the police will   be inculcated with a clear sense of the outer limit of their   discretionary authority. ” ’ ’ the   University of Michigan’s David Thacher argued last year in a    titled “Don’t End Broken Windows   Policing, Fix It. ” ’ ’   “Even in the face of defiance they call for modest sanctions and   restraints  —   citations, court summons and perhaps temporary   detention of an unruly drunk on the street rather than a trip to   the jail in a patrol car and a permanent misdemeanor record,”   Thacher wrote. ’ ’   But while criminal justice experts maintain the distinction,   officers may not always know where the line is drawn. ’ ”   “It is challenging to exercise that discretion in the right way.   Officers that are very good at that, who have extremely good   judgment, practice ’Broken Windows’ policing effectively.   Officers whose judgment is less   or who work less   at it make a hash of it,” Worden said.  ” ’   “[”Broken Windows”] is a fundamentally sound concept, but it can   be challenging to implement properly,” he added. ’ ’   Not that police departments haven’t tried  —   programs such as    and  are being experimented with around the   country. But Vitale said those efforts are futile when officers   are still instructed to uphold two priorities that seem   fundamentally at odds: combat crime aggressively and reduce use   of force. ’ ’   Hinging the success of the country’s leading     theory to the judgment calls of individual officers is simply   asking too much of police, he said. ’ ’   “How do you train the police to simultaneously be ready to shoot   at any time of a threat, and also to hold off shooting?” he   said. “We have to quit expecting policing to be the solution   to all of our problems. ” ’