’  ’ ’   Alphabet is breaking up Nest, its standalone     gadgets company, and .  ’ ’   Nest Labs will continue to exist as a subsidiary of Google   parent company Alphabet, continuing to develop     hardware such as its   thermostat. ’ ”   But dozens of Nest programmers making the move will go after   the real prize: Google’s efforts to conquer the living room and   beyond, including the forthcoming  the search giant’s answer to the Amazon Echo       .  ” ”   The   Nest programmers will be working under Google’s   Senior VP of Android Hiroshi Lockheimer, who’s also . ” ”   The fact that Nest programmers will report to   Lockheimer tells you all you need to know about why Google   is shaking up Nest: It’s yet another sign that at Google, Android   is becoming the center of the universe.  ” ”   Really, and generally speaking, Google has very limited interest   in making hardware in the first place. The cost of building   things is high, the margins are low, and Google’s real specialty   is in web services like Gmail and search anyway. ” ”   So while Google has been involved in the manufacturing of   devices like the  line of phones and tablets, or the  line of laptops, they’ve always been less about   building a huge business and more about showing off what’s   possible with Google’s operating systems, including Android and   ChromeOS. ” ’  ’ ’   So when Google snapped up Nest for $3. 2 billion in 2014, it   raised some eyebrows. Nest is very much a hardware company,   manufacturing the Nest Learning Thermostat, and, later, the Nest   Cam home security system. Furthermore, Nest has its own operating   system, pushing its own ”Works with Nest” standard for   connectivity with other devices. ’ ’   The general consensus at the time of the acquisition was that   Google was just getting its feet wet with the   ”Internet   of Things,” spending billions to establish a foothold in what’’s   projected to be a huge market. And for a while, Google   seemed perfectly content to let Nest do its own thing. ’ ’   But just this year, two big things happened: First, reports   started to come out that under founder and former CEO Tony   Fadell, Nest was . Fadell then left Nest. ’ ’   Second, Google started signaling that Android, the most popular   operating system in the world, and Chrome OS, its  were . The result, ideally, will be a   version of Android that can extend its smartphone dominance to   tablets and laptops. ..which is why . ’ ’  ’ ’   Putting the Nest programmers into the Android fold is another   signal that the era of multiple operating systems is over for   Google, and Android is going to be the common platform for   everything  —   smartphones, tablets, thermostats, laptops,   everything. ’ ”   And just like Google provides Android as the operating system for   smartphone manufacturers, I’d wager you’ll start to see home   appliance manufacturers start to release   stuff proudly   branded with the Android logo.  ” ’   After all, the real business opportunity for Google is   to compel a broad range of companies to create gadgets and   home appliances using its software. The hardware is secondary. In   fact, building its own hardware can even work against Google: The   more successful Google is at selling its own hardware, the less   likely other hardware makers want to use its software, since they   view Google as a competitor. ’ ’   What does this mean for the future of Nest? It seems   likely that the Nest products of the future, like the Nexus   and Pixel before them, will largely exist to show off the power   of Android rather than to serve as a   business   venture. ’ ”   Google might even use the forthcoming Home product as   the foundation for a family of   home appliances.   In that case, the standalone Nest Labs hardware unit becomes   even less necessary to Google or Alphabet, and it could be just a   matter of time until the Nest hardware group is put on the   auction block. It’s worth noting that the new Nest CEO, Marwan   Fawaz, is the same guy who Google tapped to sell Motorola’s TV   set top box business a few years ago.  ” ”   Putting all its efforts behind expanding and   extending Android has made Google a top player in the   smartphone market, even after its late start against Apple   and the iPhone. Given the vast size and opportunity of the   nascent smart home appliance market, it looks like Google is   doubling down on the strategy that’s served it well.  ”