’’ ’Maine is a brilliant vacation spot.’ ’In the summer, the coastal towns are filled with people chowing down on lobster rolls, gulping local beer, and enjoying the gorgeous weather. For adventurers, the state features tons of  for kayaking, hiking, biking, and exploring. ’ ’Even in the winter months, when it might seem unbearably cold in the north, Maine is home to some great ski resorts and activities.’ ’Here are 13 things you need to do in Maine.’ ’While the  is slightly tamer as a class   (out of a   rating) river, rafting on the  is a personal favorite. The class 4 river (with some 5 sections) flows under the shadow of Mount Katahdin and is a   adventure. You can also head out on the  with 16 miles of continuous rapids, though the class level depends on scheduled dam releases.’ ’You can catch the earliest sunrise in America (between October and March) from the top of Cadillac Mountain, which is accessible via hiking and driving. You can also ride your bike through the carriage trails, do some rock climbing, see the  and drive along the Park Loop road. ’ ’’ ”It’s not a trip to Maine without a stop in Freeport, home of . The sprawling campus also includes the Bike, Boat, and Ski Store, the Hunting and Fish store, and the Home store. You can also participate in one of the store’s Discovery Schools for some outdoor adventures, and see  right outside the store in the summer. Freeport itself is also home to a ton of outlet shops for every shopper’s needs.” ” is home to the largest ski resort east of the Rockies. It has the steepest trails in the east and features massive glades. But if you aren’t looking for a winter vacation, Sugarloaf also offers zip lines, mountain biking, kayaking, a  that’s consistently rated one of the best in New England, and more.” ’With so many lakes and coastal towns to visit, take advantage of all of the fresh seafood available at your fingertips. From salmon to lobster, you can have it all. ’ ’The  is considered one of the wildest and most remote sections of the Appalachian Trail. It extends from Gulf Hagas trail, which is nicknamed the ”Grand Canyon of the East. ” ’ ’ ’ ”Mount Katahdin is Maine’s highest peak and the northern terminus of the Appalachian Trail. Some parts to check out include  a narrow trail with incredibly steep drops on either side, and Chimney Pond, which leads to a peaks. The very adventurous can even hike in the winter.” ’President Obama also just  of forestland in  right outside of Baxter State Park, as a national monument on Wednesday, August 24.’ ’Maine Huts & Trails is a nonprofit organization that offers a  to help you explore and enjoy everything Maine has to offer. The trip can be tailored to your interests and the network hauls your gear for you, provides food during most of the seasons () and features four  for accommodation, complete with showers, toilets, and heated rooms. You can be remote and still get pampered.’ ”Maine’s biggest lake, Moosehead, is over 40 miles long. In the summer months, you can fish on your own or with a guide. In the winter, you can try your luck ice fishing, or hit up the many miles of   snowmobiling trails.” ”Vinalhaven is a small island lobstering community that’s part of the Fox Island chain that is only accessible via an hour and a half ferry ride from Rockland, or by air taxi from the Knox County Regional Airport. There are old hidden granite quarries that are great for swimming, but you have to ask the locals if you want in on the secret.” ’Portland has great breweries, but the coastal town has many other sights to explore. Old Port, right along the water, is often overrun with tourists, so venture to Munjoy Hill, the West End, and East Bayside to see more of the city. As for restaurants, INSIDER supervising video producer and Maine local Stephen Parkhurst recommends:  the   and .’ ’Up and down the Maine coast, you will find more than 60 lighthouses to explore. Some are privately owned, some are inactive, but others are museums that allow visitors. Do some research and plan a day trip for a beautiful drive along the coast and some lighthouse tours.  (seen above) is featured on the Maine state quarter.’