’  ’ ’   Donald Trump on Saturday will make another pitch to     voters. ’ ’   The GOP presidential nominee will visit a black church in Detroit    —   his first such appearance in front of a predominantly black   audience since launching his run for the White House in June   2015. ’ ”   Trump’s outreach . ” ’   Among other things, the GOP nominee has made his appeals to black   voters while standing among mostly white audiences, and his   rhetoric has been slammed as insincere and out of touch. ’ ”   Unlike at his infamous campaign rallies, Trump will not directly   address the audience at Great Faith Ministries International,   . Instead, he will sit down with   the church’s pastor for a private,    meeting that will   be closed to news media. ” ”   An affair similar to Trump’s  on Wednesday. ” ”   According to The Times’ Yamiche Alcindor, Trump will speak from   an   prepared transcript featuring answers to questions   that were submitted in advance. ” ’   ”The proposed answers were devised by aides working for the Trump   campaign and the Republican National Committee,” The Times noted,   citing an official involved in the planning. ’ ’   Video of the interview will be edited ”so that the final version   [reflects] the campaign’’s wishes,” The Times said. ’ ”   It will air on the church’s television network. ” ’   Hillary Clinton’’s campaign was quick to condemn the affair.   ”Donald Trump’’s latest gimmick to act as if he cares about the   black community is downright shameful, insulting and cowardly,”   Hillary for America’’s Marlon Marshall . ’ ’  ’ ”   The appearance signals the Trump campaign’s effort to  its candidate initially adopted   when he first began asking black people for their votes. ” ’   The candidate has been polling in the single digits among black   voters for some time amid criticism that his campaign appealed   mostly to white, nationalist sensibilities. ’ ”   Hillary Clinton, Trump’s Democratic rival,  last week in a speech lambasting   the   mogul’s alleged pandering to the     movement  —   a subset of conservative voters who applaud racially   tinged nationalist views. ” ’   Trump  and accused Clinton of ” ”   to reel in   votes. ’