’  ’ ’   In jail, violence is always around the corner. ’ ”   Inmates strategically use fights to settle disputes and   climb the political ladder. And if   inexperienced inmates can’t adapt to their dangerous   surroundings, they’ll live in constant fear of another   beating. ” ’   That’’s what one participant on the A&E documentary   show ”60 Days In” learned during his stay at Clark County   Jail in Jeffersonville, Indiana. The show follows eight   volunteers who go undercover as inmates to expose problems   within the system. ’ ’   One of the volunteers, Ryan, observed that a strict social   hierarchy governed his pod of inmates. Fights broke   out between members of different social groups over   virtually any perceived slight  —   from spreading gossip or   talking too loudly at night to reneging on a deal to trade   hash browns.  ’ ’   Ryan, who did not use his last name on the show, further   explained what purpose violence serves behind bars: ’ ’   In some cases, clique leaders even arranged the fights as   calculated moves to address the shifting dynamics of the pod. ’ ’   ”If there is a white guy that happens to be in disagreement with   a Hispanic guy or a black guy, instead of those guys   fighting, which could potentially cause a race riot to just   break out, some other people would fight,” Ryan told Business   Insider. ”A black guy will fight the black guy or a white   guy would fight the white guy to prevent a lot of stuff from   going down.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Those higher on the ladder constantly test new inmates, according   to Ryan. A new inmate can gain trust by performing ”gofer”   tasks, like obtaining information from corrections officers   or collecting debts from other inmates, usually in the form of   food or commissary money. ’ ’   Inmates are sometimes asked to leave secret notes for officers or   other inmates, a practice known as ”flying a kite.” If they’’re   caught by members of a different social group, however the   consequences can be severe. ’ ’   ”There are internal groups that become judge, jury, and   executioner all rolled into one,” Ryan said. ”You’’re judged by a   jury of your peers, and violence is the sentence no matter   what. It’’s never like, ’’You owe me packs of ramen noodles. ’’   That’’s nothing.” ’ ”   Merely accepting the challenge of a fight is enough to earn the   respect of other inmates, regardless of the outcome, Ryan   explained. But refusing to participate is considered the   ultimate act of cowardice among inmates. Failure to adapt to the   jail’s unwritten rules can be devastating to an inmate’s   chances of a relatively peaceful stint behind bars. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Ryan, an aspiring police officer and former Army Reserve   medic, managed to avoid any physical confrontations during his   two months at Clark County Jail. He said he surprised his fellow   inmates with his experience in various martial arts,   including jiu jitsu and aikido, and because of his small   frame, became known as a ”sleeper.” ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’