’  ’ ’   Women are going nuts over  a clothing brand that has   catapulted from near obscurity to cult status in the past couple   of years. ’ ”   The brand, which sells   shirts, leggings, and   dresses, isn’t available in stores or on a company website. ” ’   Instead, tens of thousands of people across the US  —   many of whom   are millennial moms  —   are selling LuLaRoe to friends in their   living rooms and in online forums while earning massive profits   ranging from 45% to 60% of sales, according to company documents. ’ ”   LuLaRoe’s top sellers  —   or consultants, as the company calls them    —   claim that they make   salaries annually by selling   the brand’s clothes and managing teams of other sellers. ” ’   One consultant, Tiffany Cook, posted  earlier   this year claiming that she earns about $34, 000 a month with   LuLaRoe. In the video, she mentions friends of hers who make   monthly bonus checks of between $9, 000 and $20, 000 from the   company. ’ ’ 28, told Business Insider that she sells 800 to   1, 000 pieces of LuLaRoe clothing  —   or roughly $80, 000 of clothes    —   out of her home each month. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   When Laigle started selling LuLaRoe in September 2015, there were   only 2, 000 other consultants. Now there are 35, 000. ’ ’   The company ”knew it was going to explode,” but nothing could   have prepared it for the last year, Laigle says. ’ ’   ”Every single quarter we far exceeded expectations, which is   great, but this also results in back orders and shortages,” she   said. ”You would be insane as a business owner to anticipate the   type of growth they have had.” ’ ’   Here are some of the consultants at a company convention, called   Vision 2016, held in July: ’ ’  ’ ”   Laigle’s success with LuLaRoe led her husband to quit his job as   a financial analyst for the US Department of Defense to work on   LuLaRoe full time. Laigle, a mother of two, still holds her     job, also with the Department of Defense. ” ’   She says that LuLaRoe is blowing up because the clothes are   comfortable and affordable, and they make women feel good about   themselves. ’ ’   ”So many women are   about their figures after   having babies, and they feel like they have lost their sense of   fashion,” Laigle said. ”When they try on these clothes, they walk   out of the dressing room and their faces light up and you can see   they instantly feel confident about themselves. It’’s incredible.   It sounds so corny, but it’’s true.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Women are patently fanatical about the brand and about the   brand’s founder, DeAnne Stidham, who holds weekly conference   calls to address her thousands of employees and followers with   words of encouragement and sales tips. ” ’   In a tearful    Stidham says that she launched LuLaRoe in large part to give   women a way to make extra money while raising their children.   She’’s part CEO, part spiritual leader, often encouraging her   consultants to carry out the LuLaRoe mantra: ”grace, charm, and   hustle.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   LuLaRoe is a   company  —   meaning that   employees can earn money not only from their direct sales, but   also for the sales of a team of recruits, which is likely part of   the reason why the company has grown so quickly. ’ ”   Laigle earned a $21, 000 bonus check off of her team’s sales   for the month of July. ” ’   Other companies that operate under this strategy   include Tupperware, Mary Kay, Beachbody, and Herbalife.     companies have gotten a bad rap for   encouraging people to make investments under the promise   of exaggerated earnings potential. ’ ’   But unlike other m,   LuLaRoe lets consultants sell unsold inventory back to the   company if they want to get out of the business. ’ ’ ’ ’   The clothes are wildly popular, with new styles often selling out   in a matter of seconds during online ”parties.” The mad rush for   new LuLaRoe styles has led to an inside joke among the brand’’s   addicts that whoever has the fastest fingers wins. ’ ’   Online parties start at a specific time, and whoever is the first   to comment ”sold” on a picture of an item gets to   buy that item. ’ ’  ’ ’   The frenzied excitement around LuLaRoe is driven in large   part by the sense of scarcity that it maintains with its   clothes. ’ ”and every consultant has different   inventory. So if you aren’t the first to buy something, then you   may never have another chance. ” ’   ” ’ ”   LuLaRoe’s prices range from $25 for a pair of adult leggings to   $35 for shirts, and $45 to $75 for dresses. The sizes are meant   to fit all body types, from sizes 0 to 22. ” ’ ’ ’   Consultants can set their own prices, but LuLaRoe requires   minimum prices for each item. The company discourages consultants   from holding frequent discounts, so as not to cheapen the brand. ’ ’   ”I tell people we are Nordstrom, not JCPenney,” Laigle jokes. ’ ”   In addition to women’s clothes, the brand also makes clothing for   men, affectionately known as  ” ”   Laigle says that she’s paid off her student loans and opened   college savings accounts for her children with the money that   she’s made from LuLaRoe. ” ’   ”It has completely changed my life,” she says. ”My entire family   is outfitted in the product. All my friends have heard me go on   about it. It’’s my life.” ’