’  ’ ’   Hurricane Hermine wreaked havoc across Florida on Friday,   knocking out power to nearly 300, 000 homes and businesses,   flooding   areas and raising concerns about the spread of   the  virus from pools of standing water left   behind. ’ ’   The first hurricane to make landfall in Florida in 11 years,   Hermine came ashore early on Friday near the Gulf shore town of   St. Marks, 20 miles (30 km) south of the capital of Tallahassee,   packing winds of 80 mph (130 kph) and churning up a devastating   storm surge in coastal areas. ’ ’   Torrential downpours and high surf left parts of some communities   under water early Friday, with mandatory evacuations ordered in   parts of five northwestern Florida counties. ’ ’   One   death was reported by authorities in the   northern Florida town of Ocala, where a fallen tree killed a   homeless man sleeping in his tent. ’ ”   Hermine, later downgraded to a tropical storm, was expected to   snarl Labor Day holiday travel as it churned northeast after   battering Florida’s $89 billion tourism industry. ” ’  ’ ’   As of 5 p. m. EDT (2100 GMT) the fourth named storm of the 2016   Atlantic hurricane season was passing near Charleston, South   Carolina with strong winds and heavy rains, the National   Hurricane Center (NHC) said. The governors of Georgia, North   Carolina, Maryland and Virginia declared emergencies for all or   parts of their states, and a state of emergency remained in   effect for most of Florida. ’ ’   Though maximum sustained winds had weakened to 50 mph (80 kph)   the tempest headed to the Atlantic seaboard along a path where   tens of millions of Americans live, prompting storm watches and   warnings stretching as far north as Rhode Island, NHC said. ’ ’   The storm was projected to creep north along the Carolina coast   Friday night, then gather strength after moving offshore into the   Atlantic on Saturday morning, possibly reaching     intensity by late Sunday, according to the center. ’ ’  ’ ’   In addition to powerful winds extending up to 185 miles (295 km)   from its center, Hermine was expected to unleash a dangerous   storm surge in the Hampton Roads area of tidewater Virginia,   where flooding could reach 3 to 5 feet deep, the NHC said. ’ ’   The storm also could douse several southeastern and     states with up to 15 inches (38 cm) of rain through Sunday. ’ ’   New Jersey, still mindful of devastation from superstorm Sandy in   2012, was on high alert as emergency officials advised residents   to prepare for flooding, high winds and a surge of seawater. ’ ”   New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on Friday activated his state’s   emergency operations center and ordered officials to stockpile   resources, including sandbags and generators. ” ’  ’ ’   New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio said residents should avoid   beach waters for fear of   riptides. ”I say that   to people who go the beach, I say that to surfers: Don’’t even   think about it,” De Blasio told reporters. ’ ’   In Florida, concerns over the standing water in which mosquitoes   breed intensified as the state battles an outbreak of the    virus. ’ ’   ”It is incredibly important that everyone does their part to   combat the  virus by dumping standing water, no   matter how small,” Florida Governor Rick Scott told a news   conference, also warning people to watch out for downed power   lines and avoid driving through standing water. ’ ’  ’ ’   Overnight, Pasco County crews rescued more than a dozen people   after their homes were flooded. ’ ’   Richard Jewett, 68, was rescued from his home in New Port Richey,   just north of Tampa, as emergency teams carried out a mandatory   evacuation. ’ ’   ”The canal started creeping up toward the house, and even though   it wasn’’t high tide it looked like it was coming inside,” Jewett   said. ’ ’   In the island community of Cedar Key, waters rose more than 9. 5   feet (2. 9 meters) among the highest surges ever seen, the   National Weather Service said. ’