’  ’ ’   With poll numbers hovering around 20 percent, Mexican President   Enrique Peña Nieto might have felt he had little to lose in   confronting the blustery businessman from the north, Republican   presidential nominee Donald Trump on Wednesday. ’ ”   But as he prepares to deliver a national address tonight, the   question is less about Peña Nieto’s political future but that of   his party, the   Institutional Revolutionary Party or   PRI, which could have a tough time hanging on to the presidency   when his term runs out in 2018. ” ’   ”I don’’t think it is going to bring down the president or   anything right now,” said veteran pollster Ricardo de la Peña.   ”But I do think it makes it clearer than ever that the PRI will   not stay in government after 2018.” ’ ’   The pollster also predicted that from now on Peña Nieto is likely   to remain a figure of disdain, and that the image of him cutting   a docile figure being patted on the back by Trump will haunt him   for the rest of his term in office. ’ ’   ”It could help turn bashing Peña Nieto into a kind of sport,” he   said. ”A competition to see who hits him harder.” ’ ’   Peña Nieto certainly seemed worried on Thursday  —   the day after   his encounter with the Republican Party candidate in the   presidential residence of Los Pinos, with just hours to go before   his yearly state of the nation address this evening. ’ ’     The press conference after the meeting was always going to be     controversial because of Trump’’s multiple insults directed at     Mexico and Mexicans. The fact that the Mexican president had     not only failed to demand an apology, but also failed to even     react when the candidate blithely said they would be discussing     payment for the wall ”later,” hit a particularly raw nerve.   ’ ’     ”It’’s not good to see the president looking servile and     accommodating,” De la Peña said. ”People were expecting a clear     and indisputable challenge.”   ’ ’  ’ ’     Peña Nieto’’s tweet was just one part of a seemingly desperate     damage control operation that also included an on     Mexico’’s most popular news TV show in which he said he met the     candidate because he is honor bound ”to confront the threat and     risk that our country faces.”   ’ ’     By Thursday, however, the question ”why?” had been largely     replaced by shock at just how badly it had gone. This included     a cascade of scathing opinion pieces that underlined how, for     many, Trump’’s visit represented some kind of turning point.   ’ ’     In an article in the Spanish paper El     Pais,   Mexican director Alejandro     González Iñárritu called Peña Nieto a ”traitor.”   ’ ’     ”I cannot accept as my representative somebody who denigrates     and puts at risk his compatriots instead of defending them,”     González wrote. ”Somebody like him is not fit to represent any     country.”   ’ ”     González Iñarritu has criticized Peña Nieto publically before,     but disowning him as his president hints at the depth of the     impact of Trump’s visit on many Mexicans.   ” ’     ”I think this one is going down in history,” columnist Héctor     de Mauleón wrote in the Mexican newspaper El     Universal. ”And how shameful that it should be this way.”   ’ ’  ’ ’     Peña Nieto took office almost four years ago promising to be     the new modern face of the PRI, which had ruled for 71     uninterrupted years until 2000.   ’ ’     The first two years went well.   ’ ”     Bold   reforms impressed   voices around the     world while Peña Nieto’s telenovela star wife impressed society     magazines with her wardrobe on international trips.   ” ’Time magazine put Peña Nieto on its cover under     the headline ”Saving Mexico” in February 2014. The rot set in a     few months later when the disappearance of 43 student teachers,     after they were attacked by police in league with a drug     cartel, blew apart the government’’s efforts to keep security     issues on the back burner.   ’ ’     The scandals tumbled over themselves after that. They ranged     from the exposure of major human rights abuses to drug lord     Joaquín ”El Chapo” Guzmán’’s escape from       prison, and allegations of conflict of interest involving the     presidential family.   ’ ’     Last month a local new site revealed he copied almost 30     percent of his undergraduate law thesis. On Monday the federal     police chief stood down in an effort to release some of the     pressure on the government from a major human rights report     that alleges officers ”arbitrarily executed” at least 22     suspected criminals.   ’ ”     Mexico’s state of the union speeches have traditionally been     formal affairs that last for hours and involve reams of     statistics nobody listens to. This year Peña Nieto has promised     an informal town   question and answer session with     300 young people who can touch on whatever subjects they like  —       including, presumably, tough questions about the       Trump.   ” ”     Support for a Mexican president has only previously dropped     below 30 percent was during a massive economic crisis in the     1990s, and while open revolt isn’t the conservative PRI’s     style, a reckoning is coming and the party could be the one     that ultimately takes the fall.   ” ’     ”Peña Nieto already had an unprecedented accumulation of     negative opinion,” said pollster De la Peña. ”This thing with     Trump is the nail in the coffin.”   ’ ’ Jo Tuckman contributed to this report ’