’  ’ ’   The pressure is growing on Hillary Clinton to hold a press   conference. ’ ’   In the past two weeks, the Democratic presidential nominee has   faced increased scrutiny from critics to take questions at a news   conference  —   something she hasn’t done in 273 days. ’ ’   “It’s quite Nixonian,” Nomiki Konst, a Democratic strategist and   host of “The Filter Radio” on Sirius XM, told Business Insider.   “Every candidate wants to control their message   …     but I think it   is incredibly uncommon that a candidate who is running for   president has not had a press conference in more than 270 days. ” ’ ’   “The public has a right to know where she stands on issues,”   added K ”Reporters can’t rely on tweets and press   releases and FOIA [Freedom of Information Act] requests to figure   out who a candidate is. ” ’ ’   The radio host isn’t alone in her opinion on the matter, which   has been seized on by Republican nominee Donald Trump in recent   weeks. ’ ’   New York Times columnist Jim Rutenberg criticized Clinton for her   aversion toward the press in a  on Sunday, and CNN senior media   correspondent Brian Stelter has not been shy when offering his   opinion. ’ ’   “She is acting in some ways as if she is already president,”   Stelter said in a . “By not acknowledging   the importance of a press conference, the uniqueness of a press   conference  —   it makes me wonder how accessible she’d be in the   White House as president. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Clinton and her supporters have pushed back against calls for her   to take part in a news conference. ’ ’   “Stay tuned. There will be a lot of different opportunities for   me to talk to the press,” the Democratic candidate recently told   CNN host Anderson Cooper when asked about the issue. ’ ’   The campaign, which did not return requests for comment for this   story, frequently cites a figure that asserts Clinton has   granted more than 350 interviews this year. ’ ’   Moreover, Clinton has found other ways to   engage with voters. Her campaign recently launched a podcast and   has a presence on nearly every   platform. ’ ’   Holly Shulman, a former spokeswoman for the Democratic National   Committee, told Business Insider that technology has changed   the way candidates run for office and suggested there was   less of a need to lean on the press to disseminate   a message. ’ ”   “Campaigns have changed,” she said, noting that candidates can   now reach voters directly through social media. “[T]his type of   direct engagement has a much bigger impact on voters’ decisions. ” ” ”   Michael Trujillo, former senior adviser to Ready for Hillary, a   super PAC created with the purpose of drafting Clinton’s   candidacy, echoed much of that sentiment. He characterized a   press conference as an “archaic device” and said Clinton is   instead using better mediums to get her message out. ” ’   “Every four years presidential campaigns evolve,” he told   Business Insider. “And they start getting their message to the   public ways in different ways. ” ’ ’   Trujillo suggested reporters “evolve on how they interact” with   the campaign instead of “being married” to “a tradition that has   no bearing to how campaigns are effectively run nowadays. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   But Trump has continued to spotlight Clinton’s refusal to   take questions from the media in an open setting. ’ ’   In recent weeks, the New York businessman’s campaign has sent out   an email each morning reminding reporters exactly how many days   it has been since “hiding Hillary” last held a press   conference. ’ ’   The Republican National Committee has doubled down on such calls   and released a statement Friday also noting how many days had   passed since Clinton “faced members of the media in an   environment not carefully controlled by her campaign. ” ’ ’   “Clinton owes the American people explanations on a number of   issues,” the statement said. ’ ’   And it’s not just partisan groups applying such pressure onto   Clinton. ’ ’   Alex Howard, a senior analyst at the Sunshine Foundation, a   nonpartisan and nonprofit organization that promotes transparency   in government, told Business Insider in a statement that simply   granting    interviews with journalists is not enough. ’ ’   “Regular press conferences are an essential part of the   accountability we expect of the president of the United States   and the presidential candidates who aspire to the highest office   in the country,” Howard said. ’ ”   He added: “Sitting down for hundreds of interviews, including     interviews with national reporters on the campaign   trail, can and does inform voters about a candidate’s views, but   it is not a replacement. ” ” ”   It’s unclear if such a press conference is on the horizon,   but Brian Fallon, the campaign’s top spokesman, seemed   to acknowledge the importance of one on Friday. He  that if elected, “Hillary   Clinton will hold press conferences. ” ” ’   “But the frequency of them is something that would just play out   as time went on,” he said. ’