’  ’ ’   On August 12, 1900, Lung Kin visited New York’s   Chinatown, as he did most Sundays. He worked uptown, on Amsterdam   Avenue, in a Chinese laundry. ’ ’   For reasons unknown, he ended up at 9 Pell Street,   which The New York Times described as “a   gloomy, grayish building of five stories, filled with countless   holes called rooms and reeking with sickly odors. ’ ’   At about six o’clock that evening, a commotion erupted in a   narrow hallway in the building. ’ ’   How many people were present? Six, 12, as many as 18  —   the news   reports were as confused as the chaotic scene. But this much was   indisputable: after two gunshots rang out, the crowd quickly   dispersed, leaving Lung alone and fatally wounded as “a pool of   blood slowly formed itself around his body. ’ ’   Soon afterwards, police arrested Gong Wing Chung across the   street, on the second floor of an apartment building into which   he had fled. The Times, which rendered Gong’s name   as Goo, described his capture thus: “Goo, when confront ed with   the charge of murder, never moved a muscle. As he was being led   away, a smile played over his face. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   But until this summer’s publication of Tong Wars: The   Untold Story of Vice, Money, and Murder in New York’s   Chinatown ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In his research into   history, Seligman “kept   coming across references to the tongs” he says, when we speak.   “I realised I ought to know more about them than I actually did.   Most people know they fought some wars, but that’s pretty much   the end of it. ’ ’   “Having written about heroes, I thought it was OK to look at   people who were not so savoury. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   At the same time, New York was a city of pro found poverty. In   1890, Jacob Riis, the   photographer, writer and   activist, wrote in his seminal How the Other Half   Lives that “  of its people live in the   tenements, and the nineteenth century drift of the population to   the cities is sending   multitudes to crowd them   . .. the ‘system’ that was the evil offspring of public neglect   and private greed has come to stay, a   forever of our   civilization. Nothing is left but to make the best of a bad   bargain. ” ’ ’   That last sentence describes well the situation of New York’s   Chinese immigrants. While it may sound odd to describe New York   then as a frontier town, in terms of the development of a Chinese   community, it was. ’ ’   In the late 1870s, a man named Tom Lee was dispatched from San   Francisco by the Six Com panies, an umbrella organisation   comprising the traditional fraternal groups in California’s   largest Chinatown, to both support and impose order on the   growing Chinese populace. ’ ’   “Nobody likes disorder, and the Chinese in America, they had so   much going against them  —   so many problems. They realised that if   Chinese were massing in other cities, they needed a similar   structure. The Chinese looked at that as a real positive. They   were used to hierarchy, and they were used to authority,”   Seligman explains. Why not replicate a power structure familiar   from the motherland? “If your village has always had a head man   to whom you could go for adjudication, you would want the same in   Chinatown. ” ’ ’   Lee’s arrival came as the Chinese confronted rising   discrimination. Most of them spoke poor, if any, English, and the   police certainly didn’t speak Chinese. This was especially   problematic for   bosses, who craved protection from   the authorities. ’ ’   Shrewd and oppor tunistic, Lee, who spoke decent English and even   had an American wife, gathered the bosses. He announced he would   be taxing them; the money would be used to pay off the police and   the aldermen. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ The New York Herald  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The Hip Sing cleverly recognised that it could exploit Lee’s   alliance with Tammany Hall by aligning with Tammany Hall’s   enemies. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   “All of a sudden, they have power behind them,” Seligman says.   “That was a brilliant tactical move. ” ’ ’   Even more brilliant: Mock Duck withheld the addresses of the On   Leong’s most lucrative establishments, along Mott Street. It was   his way of signalling to Lee that there was still more to be   lost, if he played this wrong or attacked the Hip Sing unwisely. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The Four Brothers’ war was sparked partly by a conse quence of   the Exclusion Act: a lack of Chinese women in America. There were   thou sands of Chinese men for every Chinese woman in America’s   Chinatowns. ’ ’   “At the turn of the century, to the extent there were children in   Chinatown, the majority were ” Seligman explains.   “There weren’t many Chinese women you could marry, so [the   Chinese men] would marry   women, usually Irish or   Italian. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   One of Chinatown’s few Chinese women was Bow Kum, 21, who, on   August 15, 1909, was found murdered and mutilated in an apartment   at 17 Mott Street. ’ ’   When the police were summoned to the scene, they found she had   been “gored twice through the heart” Seligman writes, “and a   bloody,   hunting knife stuck upright in the floor   beside her corpse. ” ’ ’   Bow was born in China and sold into slavery in California. She   had been a captive in the San Francisco home of Lau Tong, a Four   Brothers member, until a Presbyterian missionary res cued her. ’ ’   She eventually married Chin Lem, a laundry owner and On Leong   member, with whom she moved to New York. Lau travelled east in a   failed attempt to reclaim his “property”. ’ ’   He then sought compensation of US$3, 000  —   US$80, 000 in today’s   dollars  —   from Chin, who declined, and the issue went to the On   Leong Tong’s leaders for arbitration. ’ ’   They “determined that because the girl had been procured through   the mission and not directly, the demand was without merit and no   payment was required” Seligman writes. “The On Leongs’ decision   turned out to be not only Bow Kum’s death warrant but also the   trigger for    war. ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Perhaps the most significant tong wars cultur al moment came in   1932, with the release of The Hatchet Man. The film   stars Edward G. Robinson as an assassin who must kill his best   friend and Loretta Young as his best friend’s daughter, whom he   then raises as his own  —   and later marries. ’ ’   In The New York Times, film critic Mordaunt Hall   praised it as “a ruddy affair   …     a   tale with an   Oriental motif”. In particular, he lauds the work of those who   turned a nearly   cast into Chinese characters: “one of   its particularly effective features is the   of the   players”. ’ ’   Seligman’s assessment of The Hatchet Man is   less positive: “Crap,” he says. “It really was just crap. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   “I like the 19th century better,” he says. “It’s a little   simpler. It’s easier to understand. ” ’ ’   One of the core   concepts Seligman came to   understand during his years living and working in Asia   was mianzi  —   face. While the tong wars were,   on the surface, about money, influence and power, at heart they   were about face  —   something that was not at all understood by law   enforcement amid the violence. ’ ’   “Mianzi is a very powerful motivator,” Seligman   says. “It often trumps money. It often trumps power. The four   tong wars became wars of face. ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   “Tong wars were expensive propositions,” Seligman writes.   “Weapons had to be purchased in quantity, and guns, explo sives,   and tear gas were far more costly than hatchets and cleavers had   been. Gunmen had to be recruited and paid, and their escape  —   or   their legal defence, should they be apprehend ed  —   had to be   underwritten. ” ’ ’   While the organisations have persisted into the 21st century  —     only two decades ago, top officials of both the On Leong and Hip   Sing tongs were named in federal indictments in connec tion with   racketeering, extortion and murder  —   they have faded from the   headlines. ’ ’   “America created the tongs as much as the Chinese did,” Seligman   says. “This has to be looked at in the context of how these   people were treated in the US. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   As such, the stories and lessons of the tong wars have taken on   new relevance during this American election year, as Republican   nominee Donald Trump has targeted China as a threat to US   economic   and identified immi grants more broadly as   cause for concern. ’ ’   Seligman sees clear connections between the thinking behind   official Chinese exclusion in 1882 and   sentiment   today. ’ ’   In the late 19th century, he noted in an   for The   Seattle Times in February, “Some were deported. ’ ’   Others were cut off from families. Many were forced underground,   compelled to live in fear of arrest and expulsion. It created an   underclass that lacked a say in the laws that governed them and   the ability to get justice from the courts. ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The ground floor of 9 Pell Street, where Lung Kin was shot, now   houses Joe’s Shanghai, a popular purveyor   of xiaolongbao. The apartments upstairs start at   US$1, 800 a month for a  . ’ ’   Around the corner is   Doyers Street; its curve was   legendarily known as the Bloody Angle, because it was said to be   prime ambush territory. ’ ’   Today, you’re much more likely to find hipsters there than tong   hatchet men, thanks to establish ments such as Apotheke, a bar   styled after   speakeasies that offers US$15   cocktails and zero danger. ’ ’   One of the last remnants of the   era is the Nom Wah Tea   Parlor, a bakery and dim sum joint that opened in 1920. The old     tables endure, as do the tin ceiling and ancient cash   register, though the menu and kitchen were revamped recently. ’ ’   Given the history of Doyers Street, it seems particularly fitting   that one of the things the Nom Wah has always been famous for is   its   lotus paste, which you’ll find in its sesame balls   and mooncakes. The lotus, of course, symbolises peace, unity and   harmony. ’