’  ’ ’   NBC anchor Chuck Todd grilled Indiana Gov. Mike Pence on Sunday   over   ’ ’   ”Why can’’t you definitively say what’’s going to happen to these   folks?”   ”Because he used to definitively say it. He   said there would be  —   everybody has to leave. And now there’’s   some muddiness to this.” ’ ”   Trump’s running mate did not address the question directly,   instead emphasizing that the   magnate has a     immigration plan that includes forcing Mexico to pay for a wall   along the Southern US border, hiring additional Immigration and   Customs Enforcement agents, and deporting some immigrants who   have committed violent crimes and people who overstay their   visas. ” ’   ”With regard to anyone that remains after all of that is done, I   think what you heard Donald Trump say is that we’’ll give   consideration, working with the Congress, in a new and reformed   immigration system, to consider it at that time,” Pence said. ’ ’   ”But what the American people want to see today is to establish   the borders of this country, enforce the laws of this country.   And Donald Trump has created a road map to do that.” ’ ’’ ’   But when Pence assured Todd that Trump was ”completely   consistent” on immigration, Todd interjected, saying that Trump’’s   position on the issue has not been consistent. ’ ’   ”Is it fair to say that you’’re not going to answer this question   about the 11 to 15 million? I say just you, but the campaign.   You’’re going to leave this as an open question throughout the   rest of this campaign?” Todd said. ’ ’   The governor maintained that a Trump administration would address   what to do about millions of immigrants living in the US only   after it ended illegal immigration completely. ’ ”   Pence accepted that this would create a limbo for some immigrants    —   he vowed to overturn President Barack Obama’s executive actions   offering some benefits like work permits to  ” ’   ”Down the road, at the right time, after we’’ve put first things   first, then we can consider how we resolve these other issues,”   Pence said. ’ ’   Pence has repeatedly dodged direct questions about what Trump   plans to do about millions of immigrants living in the US without   permission who have not committed crimes beyond entering the US   illegally or overstaying their visa. ’ ”   CNN’s Jake Tapper  last week when questioning Pence about the   subject, which Trump’s campaign assured would be resolved during   his major immigration speech last Wednesday. ” ’   ”To be clear, you did not address the issue whether or not there   will be a deportation force removing the 11 million, but I don’’t   want to spend the entire interview on that one subject,” Tapper   told Pence following a   exchange over the deportation   force. ’