’  ’ ’   At the end of June 2016, the last remaining supplies of an   important, safe, and effective antivenom expired. ’ ”   The antidote, known as   is what  to treat   snakebites in   Africa. It can be used to treat bites   from ten venomous snakes, including . That’s particularly useful in the common   cases where a person doesn’t know what type of snake bit them. ” ’   While other antivenoms exist, no one knows yet if any of these   potential alternatives will safely be able to fill the hole left   by an antidote that can be used against so many different types   of snakebite. They will have to use alternatives anyway, hoping   they work. ’ ’   ”It’’s a shame that a product that all experts agree was good was   abandoned,” says Julien Potet, policy advisor for neglected   tropical diseases at MSF. ”We’’re putting the lives of some   patients at risk.” ’ ”   The dire situation is no surprise  —   MSF, the World Health   Organization (WHO) and others have known that Sanofi Pasteur had   stopped producing   years before. MSF had hoped to   convince the pharmaceutical company to accelerate the transfer of   their technology to another company and to continue producing   antivenom in the interim period, but that still hasn’t happened.   Even if they find someone else willing to produce the treatment,   Potet says it’ll take a couple of years for a new company to get   production going and to get antivenom distributed. ” ’   In a statement emailed by a representative of Sanofi, the company   explained that they ceased production of   after lower   cost products led to a ”steep drop in orders” for their   antivenom. ’ ’  ’ ’   The statement added: ”Sanofi Pasteur regrets the worldwide   situation with respect to the supply of     immunoglobulins and is studying options that would enable the   transfer of   to other biologicals producers who would be   willing to take over the production.” ’ ’   But the fact of the matter is, finding someone who wants to   produce antivenom is not an easy task. A recent  that many pharma companies have   stopped producing antivenom and only five of the 35 companies or   governments who make antivenom make products for     Africa. ’ ’   ”In the absence of medicines, snakebite victims have been known   to drink petrol, electrocute themselves or apply a poultice of   cow dung and water to the bite,” Carrie Arnold . ’ ’   More than anything else, this situation is just an illustration   of a much more serious global problem with regard to access to   treatment for venomous bites. ’ ’   The patients encountered by Doctors Without Borders are just a   fraction of those affected by snakebites, both in Africa and   around the world. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Every five minutes, somebody dies from snakebite,”    the founding Director of the VIPER Institute at the University of   Arizona, tells Business Insider. ”Ten to twenty thousand Africans   lose limbs to amputation each year from snakebite, with lifelong   impact on their ability to work and take care of families.” ’ ”   According to recent estimates,  after being bitten by   cobras, vipers, and other venomous snakes, and many others suffer   debilitating injuries. More than 400, 000 people have limbs   amputated or rendered useless. That’s far more than  and it’s possible the number could be   higher still, since most bites don’t occur in places where they   are necessarily reported. Antivenom shortages are a problem the   world over  —   it’s not just about  . ” ’   ”Snakebites are a growing   crisis,”  Nature News. ’ ’   The loss of   is a blow to those that MSF is able to   treat now. But far more patients in Africa never make it to an   MSF facility after being bitten. ’ ’   Last year  David Williams of the Australian Venom   Research Unit wrote that gaps in the global antivenom supply   ”have cumulatively cost millions of lives, maimed millions more,   and contributed to the burden of poverty and disenfranchisement   that lingers heavily over many nations”  —   all for something that   he writes is ”eminently treatable.” ’ ’   ”Snakebite is the most neglected of the ’’Neglected Tropical   Diseases,’’” according to Boyer. ’ ’     and approved products like   are not cheap,   with an average cost of around $120 a vial, according to Potet   (and many venomous bites must be treated with more than one   vial). That amount of money is more than some citizens of   countries like Chad, South Sudan, and Ghana  —   all places     was helpful  —   make in a year. ’ ’  ’ ’   So in the late 2000s, when companies popped up offering antivenom   at far cheaper rates, ministries of health jumped at the   opportunity. But there are lots of ways that an antidote can be   screwed up, according to  the Medical Director of the San Diego   Division of the California Poison Control System and a professor   of toxicology at UCSD. Manufacturers may not use the right   antibodies or they may not properly treat the antidote to remove   components that cause negative reactions. ’ ’   The companies making these cheaper antivenoms seemed to have   these problems. Adopting a new antivenom in  from bites to go from 2. 3% to 15%.   Ghana saw . These products were ”    ” says Potet. ’ ’   But the change in market share was enough for Sanofi to decide it   was time to get out of the business. ’ ”   Most venomous snakebites happen in parts of the world that aren’t   high income, meaning that making antivenom isn’t particularly   profitable. ” ’   ”It’’s really all a   analysis,” says Clark. And that’’s   led to antivenom shortages everywhere, he says. ’ ”   Compounding the issue is the fact that expensive treatments   rarely make it to individuals in most of   Africa (or   rural India, Bangladesh, or Pakistan, other places where   snakebite is a serious issue). When bitten, people seek out   traditional healers, who can’t do much to counteract a venomous   bite. ” ”   Boyer explains that, according to the  this creates a vicious cycle.   People don’t expect good treatment in a hospital, so they don’t   go until they are desperate. Once they do, they’re too sick for   treatment to be effective. And existing trust issues were   worsened in places that used less effective antivenoms. ” ”   There’s no easy answer when it comes to figuring out how to deal   with what’s known as the global burden of snakebite. ” ’  ’ ’   Potet does say that the World Health Organization (WHO) seems to   recognize now that snakebite is a bigger issue that needs to be   dealt with (though there are still ). That international   organization is now assessing alternative products that might be   used in   Africa, and there are hopes that at least one   product might be a viable alternative for  . Some of   those products could even be more   (less prone to   spoil) which is important if an African health ministry wants to   order a large quantity. ’ ’   But there are major debates over how to handle the problem. Some   groups in Costa Rica and Brazil are working on new safer types of   universal antivenoms, according to Nature News. But it could be   years before these are ready to use and they may cost tens of   thousands of dollars for each dose when they first become   available. Meanwhile, people are dying and becoming disabled   every day because of something that we have the technology to   treat. ’ ’   The biggest challenges are still financial, as is frequently the   case when dealing with drug prices and companies working in both   the developing and developed world. ’ ”   As Boyer explains it, the solution isn’t going to come from a   place like the US, where  a   markup between the cost to make antivenom   and the cost a patient pays. ” ”   It’s more likely that a Latin American or Spanish product might   prove to be effective, safe, and affordable, she says. Along with   working on new antivenoms, researchers in Costa Rica, Brazil, and   Mexico do have other more conventional antivenoms in the works   that could be effective in Africa. Even so, ensuring it gets to   patients in need will be a challenge. ” ’   ”As long as [antivenom] is user fee driven, people will only have   access to     products,” says Potet. ”There is   definitely a need to subsidize quality antivenoms.” ’