’   One wintry Thursday morning, I drank my coffee black. I prefer my   morning joe with a lot of milk in it, but I didn’t want to mess   with my glucose reading. ’ ’   Arriving at work, I headed to a conference room where I met a   nurse from my company’s wellness vendor. She weighed me, took my   height and blood pressure, and calculated my   index. ’ ’   ]She pricked one of my fingers and inserted my blood sample into   a small machine that measured my blood sugar, LDL cholesterol   (the bad one) and HDL cholesterol (the good one). ’ ’   She wrote down each, and I breathed a sigh of relief. I had   passed. I wouldn’t have to take a   online     course to avoid paying an extra $600 on my   health insurance next year. ’ ’   If you work for an American corporation, there’s a good chance   you’ve undergone a similar routine. According to  50 percent of large firms (defined as having 200 or   more workers) annually offer or require employees to complete   what’s known as a biometric screening, and more than half of   those companies offer a financial incentive to employees who   participate. Some even make participation mandatory for employees   who enroll in   health insurance. ’ ’   Half of large employers surveyed offer health risk assessments   (HRAs) which are questionnaires intended to identify     behaviors. Biometric screenings and HRAs are just two types of   workplace wellness programs, a broad category that can also   include smoking cessation courses, lifestyle coaching, and     competitions. ’ ’   Wellness is good. (Who doesn’t want to be well?) And wellness   vendors —  the companies that your employer pays to administer those   HRAs and biometric screenings —  assert that their programs save   money by making employees healthier, thereby preventing expensive   claims. Employers are “spending hundreds of millions of dollars   on health care, in fact an average of $12, 000 per employee,” said   Eric Zimmerman, the chief marketing officer of Redbrick Health.   “So it doesn’t seem imprudent to spend a small percentage of that   on keeping people healthy. ” (Disclosure: Redbrick is the wellness   vendor formerly used by Slate’s parent   company.) ’ ’   “If you invest and focus on the health of your population,” says   David Nill, chief medical officer of wellness vendor Cerner   Health, “you will be happier, healthier, more productive, and   actually the result of them being healthier is they’ll have less   utilization and spend less money on care resources. ” ’ ’   The notion that wellness programs save companies money by making   their employees healthier is appealing. In fact, the federal   government encourages companies to implement wellness programs. ’ ’   But wellness programs promote medical tests of dubious value,   encourage unnecessary doctor visits, and collect sensitive health   information despite often  with little to no evidence that they improve health   outcomes. There’s not even much sign that wellness programs help   a company’s bottom line —  not directly, anyway. So how did we get   to a point where employers consider wellness programs a “,” in the words of   Redbrick? ’ ’   The history of wellness programs is inextricable from the history   of rising health care costs in America. According to  overall American health   care spending almost quintupled between 1980 and 2014, from $634   billion to $3. 03 trillion (all in 2014 dollars). The increase was   even more dramatic for health care spending by private health   insurers, rising from $172 billion to $991 billion, adjusted for   inflation —  a 476 percent increase. ’ ’  ’ ’   Since companies are always looking for ways to slow rising health   costs, the idea behind wellness programs sounds like a  :   Educate employees about their health and identify any health   problems before they get expensive, and you’ll end up with a   healthier,    workforce. Both the  of 1990 and the of 1997 (HIPAA) which aimed respectively   to prevent discrimination on the basis of health status and to   protect employee health information, contained exceptions that   explicitly permitted corporate wellness programs. ’ ’   Throughout the 1990s, federal regulations kept workplace wellness   programs in check. Companies were allowed to offer modest   financial incentives, but the rewards could be tied only to   participation, not to outcomes. In other words, companies could   offer workers cash or a discount on their insurance premiums for   completing an HRA or a biometric screening, but they had to give   all participants the same reward regardless of their health   status. ’ ’   That changed during the George W. Bush administration. In   December 2006, Bush’s regulators in the departments of Labor,   Treasury, and Health and Human Services —  the three agencies that   regulate group health plans and enforce HIPAA —  finalized  establishing that   companies could tie financial rewards to health   outcomes. Not only that, they could increase the size of the   financial rewards up to 20 percent of the total cost of the   health plan. ’ ’   Put another way, this meant that companies could shift up to 20   percent of the total cost of premiums onto unhealthy   employees. Business leaders had told administrators that   they’d have “a greater opportunity to encourage healthy behaviors   through programs of health promotion and disease prevention if   they are allowed flexibility in designing such programs,” as   Bush’s staff wrote in the rule. ’ ’   In 2009, Safeway CEO Steven A. Burd launched a public relations   and political campaign claiming that his company had seen a   stunning drop in health care costs after implementing a wellness   program. In  Burd said that Safeway had begun testing   employees’ tobacco usage, weight, blood pressure, and   cholesterol levels in 2005 and tying financial incentives to   their results. Burd called this program “completely voluntary” in   the same paragraph that he explained individuals who didn’t pass   these tests had to pay $780 more in annual premiums, or $1, 560   more for family plans. This kind of doublespeak is par for the   course in the world of corporate wellness, where avoiding a   financial penalty is often framed as getting a discount. ’ ’   Simply by instituting wellness programs, Burd wrote, “we have   kept our per capita   costs flat (that includes both   the employee and the employer portion) while most American   companies’ costs have increased 38% over the same four years. ” ’ ’   As it turns out, . As the Washington Post’s David Hilzenrath   discovered, Safeway implemented its wellness program in 2009, not   2005, and only about 14 percent of its workforce was even   eligible to participate in it. Safeway did manage to keep its   health care costs down —  by raising deductibles in 2006, shifting   more of the cost of health care onto employees. ’ ”   But Congress —  and the Obama administration —  bought Burd’s story   hook, line, and sinker. “The Safeway program has proven so   successful that the company wants to increase its incentives for   rewarding healthy behavior,” Republican Sen. Mitch McConnell said   in June 2009. “Unfortunately, current laws restrict it from doing   so. ” In a radio interview broadcast from the White House in   August 2009, President Obama said Safeway “is a company that has   done a great job in helping encourage its employees to get fit,   and they actually give them an incentive. They say, ‘Look, you’re   going to save X amount on your insurance premiums —  you’ll see that   in your paycheck —  if you are taking steps to take care of   yourself.’ ” ” ’   Not everyone was on board with raising the limits on penalties   charged to employees who didn’t meet wellness standards. A group   of health advocacy organizations, including the American Diabetes   Association and the American Lung Association,  “that individuals not be penalized —  either   financially or by exclusion from coverage or services —  if they are   sick or if they presently engage in specific behaviors or have   certain health conditions, such as smoking or obesity. ” ’ ’   Still, the   “Safeway Amendment” became law as part of   the Affordable Care Act. Since 2010, companies have been able to   shift up to 30 percent of the cost of   health care   premiums onto employees who fail wellness tests unrelated to   tobacco, and up to 50 percent for failures related to tobacco. ’ ’  ’ ’   The ACA is grimly specific about the financial component of   wellness programs, but it is much less specific about what those   programs are allowed to consist of. Wellness programs are defined   as “a program offered by an employer that is designed to promote   health or prevent disease. ” The law offers no standards for   participatory programs; as for   programs, the ACA   says a program is kosher if it: ’ ’   Just this May, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission   confirmed that these ACA standards were in compliance with the    and the . ’ ’   The “Safeway Amendment” is a remarkable exception to the   Affordable Care Act’s ban on discriminating against     conditions. Thanks to “Obamacare,” people with high blood   pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar, or   index —  or any   other factor that a wellness vendor screens for —  can be legally   charged thousands of dollars more in premiums than people without   those conditions. Technically, wellness programs must provide a   “reasonable alternative standard” for people who don’t pass a   screening. But the ACA “doesn’t say what the alternative standard   is. It’s totally ” says Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow   at the Kaiser Family Foundation. ’ ”   You might think of Al Lewis, Vik Khanna, and Tom Emerick as the   Three Musketeers in the fight against wellness programs. Lewis is   a health care consultant. Khanna worked as a consumer health   advocate for the Maryland State Attorney General before running   wellness programs for various companies. Emerick managed health   benefits for Walmart for 15 years. Individually, they all came to   realize that wellness programs alienated employees and wasted   money. After Khanna accepted a job running a wellness program for   a nonprofit health system, he says, “I had a lightbulb moment   when I realized that these people who want these wellness   programs and are running them really, literally have no idea what   they’re doing. ” ” ’   Lewis has published three books on wellness programs:     (  with Emerick) and    (  with Khanna). Lewis and Khanna call out wellness   practices on a blog called (Recent posts   include “” and   “. ”) After I first talked to him for this piece,   Lewis started sending me emails every week or so with subject   lines like “more wellness news   …     another doozy” and “Laura, how   is wellness likeSeinfeld?” (Answer: It’s about nothing.) ’ ’   Lewis et al’s criticisms of the industry start with two of the   most common tools in the wellness program’s toolbox: the health   risk assessment and the biometric screening. HRAs typically offer   advice that any moderately educated adult has already heard   hundreds of times: Eat lots of fruits and vegetables. Exercise.   Don’t smoke. Get enough sleep. It seems highly unlikely that an   employee with unhealthy habits would suddenly decide to adopt   healthy ones after completing an HRA. ’ ’   HRAs can contain misinformation, too. The HRA I completed last   year grouped   dairy and eggs in the same category as cold   cuts, fried foods, and cake, even though the evidence against   saturated fat is nowhere near as conclusive as the evidence   against processed meats and sweets. ’ ’   In an HRA he completed to save money on his wife’s health care   plan last year, Khanna reports, “They tell me that I’m slightly   overweight with a BMI of over 25, and that’s because I’m very   muscular. I’m short, but as one of my workout mates says, I’m   built like a fire hydrant. ” Khanna, now 58, took up bodybuilding   at the age of 17 and describes himself as “a fitness and wellness   fanatic. ” ’ ’   As Khanna’s experience shows, BMI is a crude tool —  it can’t   necessarily tell the difference between someone who’s ripped and   someone who’s chubby; it also can’t tell the difference between   someone who’s chubby and someone who’s pregnant. ’ ’   What’s more,  found that a BMI in the overweight   category was associated with lower mortality than a BMI in the   “normal” range; only morbid obesity was associated with higher   mortality. In short, wellness programs are using a   rough measurement without much predictive value as a means of   distinguishing healthy employees from unhealthy employees. ’ ’   The other measurements taken in a typical biometric screening are   a little better. Blood pressure tests are very useful for   detecting hypertension, but blood pressure isn’t consistent from   one moment to the next. As for cholesterol tests, the United   States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF)    unless they have other factors that put them at risk for heart   disease, and recommends glucose screenings only for people over   the age of 40 who are overweight or obese. ’ ’   The upshot is that wellness programs often recommend screenings   for otherwise healthy people far more often than their doctors   would. As Gilbert Welch, a professor at Dartmouth College’s   Geisel School of Medicine, has argued in books such as  and    screening generally healthy people for diseases isn’t just   wasteful; it can be harmful. Sometimes screenings generate false   alarms. ’ ’   Sometimes they detect abnormalities that would never have   developed into a disease, but trigger a treatment regimen just to   be safe —  exposing a patient to the side effects of a medication or   the risks of unnecessary surgery. Biometric data collection can   lead “people to feel more vulnerable, to be terrorized by false   alarms, and to be overdiagnosed and overtreated,” Welch writes in   Less Medicine, More Health. ’ ’   Moreover, most health conditions simply aren’t     —  i. e. they can’t be prevented via   lifestyle interventions. Think about multiple sclerosis, or   asthma, or schizophrenia, or Crohn’s disease. These conditions   require ongoing treatment, sometimes in the form of expensive   medications. No amount of lowering your blood pressure or losing   weight is going to make them less expensive to cover. ’ ’     And conditions that are   are quite uncommon     in the   population. Cancer, heart attacks, stroke,     and diabetes usually don’t hit until retirement, even among     people who have had bad habits all along. “Most of the diseases     they say they are going to prevent are diseases of aging,”     Khanna says.   ’ ’     A heart attack or cancer diagnosis can be quite expensive to     treat, but it’s more likely that Medicare will be on the hook     for covering it than your   insurance. Lewis     and Emerick’s Cracking Health Costs estimates that     “only about 7 percent of your total spending —  at the very     most —  pays for medical events like heart attacks that are     preventable through wellness. ”   ’ ’If you take a close look at     Redbrick’s numbers, for example, it’s hard to see how or where     companies are saving money via wellness programs. Redbrick     tracked the biometric measurements of 84, 400       individuals from multiple companies over about a year, some of     whom completed a Redbrick online program —  known as a     “Journey” —  and some of whom didn’t.    ’ ’     In that time period, 23. 4 percent of obese individuals who     completed a Redbrick Journey lost at least 5 percent of their     body weight, compared to 16. 5 percent in the control group.     Among those with elevated “bad” cholesterol, 41. 2 percent who     completed a Journey lowered it by at least 10 percent, compared     to 37. 6 percent of   . And 62. 9 percent of     individuals with high blood pressure who completed a Journey     saw a categorical improvement, compared to 61. 6 percent of     those who did not complete the wellness program —  a       significant difference, unlike the other     results. ’ ’  ’ ’     Despite the fact that Redbrick participants improved their     overall health at only a slightly higher rate than     nonparticipants, Redbrick  that companies that     use its programs will save $3. 80 for every dollar they invest,     with an average savings of $612 per person per year. This     return on investment (ROI) which doesn’t include the cost of     incentives, is allegedly the result of lower medical claim     costs and reduced absenteeism. When I asked Zimmerman how     Redbrick accounted for those savings, he said, “I wouldn’t say     the reason to invest in this category is for a 3. 8 to 1 ROI. I     don’t know that it’s logical to invest in   and expect     a   financial return. ”   ’ ’     A   2013 analysis of large employers’     medical and wellness data by the nonprofit RAND Corporation was     unable to detect a statistically significant reduction in     health care costs as a result of wellness program     implementation. RAND also challenged the notion that financial     incentives produce thinner employees: according to their     analysis, . At that rate, a company     would need to spend $10, 000 to get an overweight employee to     lose 30 pounds.   ’ ’     So what are employers actually after when they implement     wellness programs tied to large financial incentives?      . Under the ACA, wellness programs are a legal way     to shift a significant portion of the cost of premiums onto     employees deemed unhealthy. Wellness programs don’t save money     by preventing expensive medical claims —  and in fact, they might     even increase claims costs due to encouraging unnecessary     doctors’ visits. But wellness programs can save money     if enough employees fail them or opt out.   ’ ’     How did debt get so bad in the United States? Join personal     finance columnist Helaine Olen as she takes   look at     the reality of debt in America. What’s it like to empty out     your 401( k) to help a family member? What works —  and what     doesn’t —  for people struggling to get out of debt? Find out.     Join us today.   ’ ’     To make their employees healthier, it’s clear, employers need     to totally redefine what a wellness program is. A wellness program that’s     actually about wellness would be entirely voluntary, not     financially coercive. It wouldn’t collect any personal health     information from employees. It wouldn’t weigh people or take     their blood samples. It would be truly a benefit, not a       measure. It might reimburse employees for their gym     or yoga studio memberships. It might subsidize a       agriculture membership.   ’ ’     But if employers start adopting any of these benefits en masse,     they might have to call them something else. The term     wellness programmight be beyond redemption by this     point.   ’