’  ’ ’   ITT Technical Educational Services Inc.    at all campuses. ’ ”   The college’s closure, which affects 40, 000 students and 8, 000   employees, is one of the largest in US history. ” ’   The Department of Education held a press conference to discuss   next steps for affected students, urging them to consider the two   options: discharge their federal loans or transfer to another   school. ’ ”   Current students and those actively enrolled in past 120 days who   made the decision to leave are eligible to have 100% of their   federal loans discharged. These students are free to start their   programs of study at another school but can’t use credits from   ITT Tech if they want a full discharge of their loans. ” ”   If students decide to fully discharge, however, they’d   essentially need to start their postsecondary education over from   scratch, a particularly unattractive choice for students close to   graduating. But transferring is no easy task, especially if   students are looking for a quality school. ” ’   Under Secretary of Education Ted Mitchell directed students to   call their loan servicers to start the process of a loan   discharge and to visit  a website dedicated to assisting   ITT Tech students through the discharge process, or call      . ’ ’  ’ ’   Alternately, students who want to continue their education and   current programs of study should look to see where their credits   may transfer. Mitchell indicated that the ED was working to have   community colleges around ITT Tech campuses reach out to   students. ’ ’   If the transferring school accepts the ITT Tech credits, the   student is no longer eligible for a full federal student loan   discharge. ’ ’   As is the case for any student, the department said it would   accept claims under a . Under   the law, that claim provides loan forgiveness to students if   their school committed fraud or broke laws. ’ ’   Secretary Mitchell noted that the department estimated about $500   million in   discharge money if every student sought a     discharge. ITT Tech has posted about $90 million of   that cost to the ED, which will defray the additional amount that   taxpayer money will cover. ’ ’   The announcement that ITT Tech will close comes a week and a half   after the  that   banned the school from enrolling students who use federal   financial aid and required ITT post a $153 million letter of   credit on top of the $94 million reserve requirements it must   already meet. ’ ”   Shortly after, ITT announced it  at all. The department’s   sanctions struck such a blow to ITT Tech because, like most     colleges, it’s highly dependent on federal aid. ” ’   The department’’s move to sanction ITT ”was the right decision,”   Mitchell said. ”It’’s important to remember that when we took our   action we took it in the face of growing evidence that ITT was a   risk to students and taxpayers.” ’