’  ’ ’   House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi asked House Speaker Paul   Ryan  to oppose any efforts   from Republicans or Democrats to use leaked documents published   online as fodder for the 2016 campaign. ’ ’   Pelosi called the ”sophisticated Russian  ” an   ”insidious” effort to tamper with the US election, comparing it   to other instances in Europe, and said documents leaked as a   result should not be used by the  ’ ’   Hacked documents released earlier this summer revealed internal   communications and phone numbers from Democratic House   members.  ’ ’   ”Russia’’s cyber attack is an unprecedented assault on the   sanctity of our democratic process,” she wrote in her letter. ”We   must come together to say that defending our democracy from   Russia’’s meddling is more important than any advantage or   disadvantage in this election.” ’ ’   ”It is my hope that you will join me in opposing the NRCC or the   DCCC from using any documents from Russian criminal cyber attacks   in this campaign,” the California Democrat continued.   ”Democrats and Republicans must present a united front in the   face of Russia’’s attempts to tamper with the will of the American   people.”  ’ ’’ ’   In a statement to Business Insider, the NRCC said they do not   have control over what ”our individual expenditure unit does.” ’ ”   A spokeswoman    Randy Perkins, who is running for Rep. Patrick Murphy’s seat in   Florida. That ad, which was funded by the NRCC’s independent   expenditure arm, contained information from hacked documents   about Perkins, who was allegedly under fire from fellow   Democrats. ” ’   ”The NRCC’s chairman, Greg Walden, nor the speaker have control   over what our independent expenditure unit does, which the DCCC   chairman, Ben Ray Lujan, as well as Leader Pelosi are well aware   of. ,” Katie Martin, an NRCC spokeswoman, said in the statement. ’ ’   The statement added: ”The shady business practices deployed   by Randy Perkins highlighted in the digital ad have been well   documented through various news outlets and even in Mr. Perkins’   own testimony before Congress. It’s not our fault the DCCC   recruited a candidate so flawed that they knew he was a liability   from the very beginning.” ’