’  ’ ’   Apple might ditch Bluetooth and rely on a new, homemade wireless   technology for the headphones in the forthcoming iPhone. ’ ”   That’s according to a new report by KGI Securities analyst     Kuo, who has an impressive track record of accurately   predicting changes to Apple products.  obtained the report. ” ’   In his note, Kuo says Apple will use a   ”    communication chip” for its wireless headphones, implying that   the company won’’t use the standard Bluetooth technology. ’ ’   He adds that Apple has ”higher requirements for     communication specs and potential rapid growth,” which suggests   that the current Bluetooth standard isn’’t up to Apple’’s   standards. The new wireless technology will be ””   according to Kuo. ’ ’   A  leaked in July suggests that Apple’’s wireless   headphones will be called ”AirPods.” ’ ’’ ”   It doesn’t appear that Apple will include its AirPod wireless   headphones with the iPhone 7. Instead, Apple will package a pair   of Lightning EarPods that connect to the iPhone 7’s Lightning   port, which is expected to replace the standard headphone jack.   For those wishing to cling to their wired headphones, Apple is   said to include a 3. 5 mm headphone jack adapter. ” ”   Apple’s wireless headphones apparently will be targeted for the   premium market, and wireless   headphones will be   designed for the   market. ” ’   It’’s still unclear how much Apple would charge for its AirPods,   but it currently offers a ”premium” pair of wired EarPods for $79   versus the standard pair that costs $29, which could give some   idea of what Apple’’s premium AirPods would cost. ’ ”   I’m a fan of wireless Bluetooth headphones, as it means a     experience that liberates me from the tether between   my phone and my head. ” ”   At the same time, Bluetooth isn’t a perfect solution for wireless   music. Pairing Bluetooth devices is still a convoluted affair,   and many question the sound quality of the Bluetooth standard  —     you normally have to pay the big bucks for a good pair of   wireless Bluetooth headphones that can compete with wired models   in terms of sound quality. A   pair of Bluetooth   headphones typically costs $200 or more. ” ”   We’ll have to wait and see what Apple announces during tomorrow’s   iPhone event, as rumors and speculation don’t always translate to   fact. ”