’   Matt Lauer grilled Hillary Clinton on Wednesday evening over her   handling of classified information and use of a private email   server while she was secretary of state. ’ ”   Lauer’s second question at NBC’s    Forum   was about the email scandal, and he pressed the Democratic   presidential nominee as she tried to explain how she handled   classified information. ” ’   ”The word judgment has been used a lot around you, Secretary   Clinton over the last year and a half, and in particular   concerning your use of your personal email and server to   communicate while you were secretary of state,” Lauer said. ’ ’   He then asked: ”Why wasn’’t it disqualifying, if you want to be     ?” ’ ’ ’ ’   Clinton repeated past statements about her use of a private   server being a mistake. ’ ’’ ’   ”As I have said repeatedly, it was a mistake to have a personal   account,” Clinton said. ”I would certainly not do it again. I   make no excuses for it. It was something that should not have   been done.” ’ ’   She pivoted to defending her assertion that she never mishandled   classified information, contrary to FBI Director James Comey’’s   statement saying she was ”extremely careless” in handling   classified information. ’ ’   ”The real question is the handling of classified material, which   is I think what the implication of what your question was,”   Clinton said. ”[I] have a lot of experience dealing with   classified material. . .. Classified material has a   header which has top secret, secret, confidential. Nothing,   and I will repeat this and this is verified in the report by the   Department of Justice, none of the emails sent or received by me   had such a header.” ’ ’   Lauer pressed on, asking, ”Were some of the emails sent or   received by you referring to our drone program, our covert drone   program?” ’ ’   Clinton responded ”yes.” ’ ’   ”Of course there were no discussions of any of the covert actions   in process being determined about whether or not to go forward,”   Clinton said. ”But every part of our government had to deal with   questions and our secretary of state’’s office was first and   foremost, so there are ways of talking about the drone program in    —  ” ’ ’   Lauer cut in. ’ ’   ”And you said you thought your communications on that were fairly   routine,” he said.  ’ ’   Clinton responded, ”Well, let me just say, the FBI just released   their report about their investigation. They discussed drone   matters in the unclassified section of the report.” ’ ’   Lauer pointed out that Comey also said that ”there is evidence to   support a conclusion that any reasonable person in Secretary   Clinton’’s position should have known that an unclassified system   is no place for that conversation.” ’ ’   Clinton noted that experienced foreign policy experts and defense   officials were communicating on an unclassified system. ’ ”   Lauer pivoted to the question of whether hostile actors could   have accessed Clinton’s emails that were stored on her private   server. ” ’   ”Matt, there is no evidence, of course anything is possible, but   what is factual is the State Department’’s system was hacked,”   Clinton said. ”Most of the government systems are way behind the   curve. We’’ve had hacking repeatedly, even in the White House.   There is no evidence my system was hacked.” ’