”   Apple’s iPhone 7 has no headphone jack. ” ”   Instead, Apple wants people to use its proprietary Lightning   connector to attach headphones  —   or, better yet, to buy Apple’s   new $160 wireless AirPods. ” ’  ’ ”   If that sounds like a major frustration to you, don’t worry  —     there’s a very   dongle that you can plug into your   phone so that standard headphones will work. It comes with the   iPhone 7 and its bigger brother, the iPhone 7 Plus. ” ’   It looks more ridiculous than it sounds: ’ ’  ’ ’   So at this point, you might be wondering why Apple would be   removing the headphone jack from its iPhone. Every iPhone ever   made has a headphone jack, to say nothing of the billions of   other devices around the world that use the standard 3. 5 mm jack. ’ ”   It’s beyond ubiquitous. ” ”   So, again, why is Apple removing it? Apple has offered a few   reasons, and they’re all pretty terrible in the logic department. ” ’  ’ ’   ””   was the official reason given on stage yesterday during Apple’’s   event. Yes, that is seriously what Phil Schiller, Apple’’s senior   vice president of worldwide marketing, told attendees (before   thankfully going into more detail). ’ ’   ”The courage to move on, to do something new that betters all of   us. And our team has tremendous courage,” Schiller said. ’ ’   And let’’s be clear: Even if this move was received positively (it   wasn’’t) the move away from an analog audio jack to a digital one   doesn’’t ”better all of us.” We’’re talking about an audio jack   still  —   right, Phil? ’ ’   Silliness aside, Schiller then offered a   ”why Apple   is removing the audio jack” speech. Here are the tent poles: ’ ’   Notably, none of this logic takes into account that the entire   planet uses the traditional 3. 5 mm port, or that wireless   headphones require charging, or that the Lightning connector is a   much more cumbersome connection than a standard headphone jack. ’ ”   But let’s look at Schiller’s arguments point by point. ” ’  ’ ”   To Schiller’s first point, making the audio port a digital one   over an analog one is far from meaningful. It adds a few bells   and whistles  —   slightly more control of your music directly from   your headphones  —   and the ability to charge whatever set of   headphones you’re using. ” ”   But you’re probably just using the Apple earbuds that came with   your phone, aren’t you? They don’t require a charge, and while   you can’t access any of the added functionality that comes with a   digital connection, you can simply perform all of those actions   on your phone (changing the volume or the song). ” ’   Removing the headphone jack is fine for people who use wireless   headphones, but those people are in the vast minority of iPhone   users. ’ ”   Schiller’s second point  —   that the space being taken up by the   headphone port is valuable  —   is valid. ” ”   But as a consumer, I don’t care. I want my phone to last forever.   I want the sound to be perfect, the screen to be gorgeous. I’m   paying how much for this? ” ’   If I sound unreasonable, it’’s because I’’m being unreasonable.   That’’s intentional: The vast majority of iPhone buyers were not   watching Apple’’s keynote yesterday, so they’’ll be unmoved when   they hear, ”We needed more space inside the phone!” ’ ’   It sounds like an excuse, not a feature, the ”Sorry we   removed this  —   we had to! It’’s for your own good!” argument. ’ ’   His final point speaks to the grand vision of Apple in ”the   future.” The idea is that everything will go wireless.   Stratechery’’s Ben Thompson : ’ ’   Thompson’’s not wrong, and that’’s meaningful for the future for   all of us. But it’’s not an argument that’’s going to mean much to   the average person buying an iPhone, wondering, ”Where’’s the   headphone jack?” ’ ”   Apple went further in depth in  timed to publish soon after   Wednesday’s big iPhone presentation. The company says that, in   addition to the points above (which it echoes) removing the jack   also helped turn the iPhone into an extremely     device. ” ’   Do any of these arguments seem strong enough to kill one of the   most widely used ports in electronics history? ’