’  ’ ”   This is one of the stranger things we’ve seen recently. ” ’   The research team at the San Francisco Fed    of Fed communications. ’ ”   Economist Fernanda Nechio and researcher Rebecca Regan looked at   data from  as part of an examination of the Fed’s   communication strategy following the financial crisis. ” ’   The short of it is that Prattle was accurately able to predict   what the Fed’’s infamous ”” would look like upon its next release. ’ ’   Since 2012, the Fed has released a Summary of Economic   Projections (SEP)  —   which contains economic projections from   meeting participants  —   after every other Federal Open Market   Committee meeting. The SEP also includes the dot plot, which is   an aggregated forecast of where Fed officials see interest rates   at various points in the future. ’ ”   Prattle’s findings show that Fed communications ahead of SEP   releases can indicate where the Fed’s median expectation for   interest rates is likely to fall. ” ”   This is significant, as the median rate projection is an   important number and serves as a guide to the Federal Reserve’s   view on the future path of interest rates. ” ’   The chart below shows the   projections for the policy   rate two to three years ahead released between September 2013 and   June 2014. ’ ’  ’ ’   Prattle uses a   algorithm to give each Fed   communication a score, with a positive score providing a hawkish   sentiment, and a negative score a dovish sentiment.  ’ ”   This chart shows Prattle scores for FOMC meeting participants’   speeches given in the weeks leading up to the FOMC meetings in   September and December 2013 and March and June 2014. (Fed   officials can’t speak publicly for a week ahead of FOMC   decisions.) ” ’  ’ ’   They look alike, right? ’ ”   The San Francisco Fed also analyzed the median interest rate   projection and the median sentiment score. The median score is   especially important, as Fed officials have said this is the most   accurate prediction of the path of the policy rate. Once   again, Prattle’s sentiment score was found to be pretty accurate. ” ’   ”The figure shows a statistically reliable positive relationship   between the median sentiment scores and the median     SEP interest rate projections,” the note said. ’ ’   ”This positive relationship suggests that, on average, speeches   preceding the meeting that carry a more hawkish sentiment are   associated with a higher projected level for the policy rate in   the medium term.” ’ ’  ’