’  ’ ’   Donald Trump spent seven minutes of his major address on   education reform Thursday to defend his false assertion that he   was against the Iraq War before it started. ’ ”   The subject came back to the center of discussion after Trump   brought it up in Wednesday night’s    Forum on   NBC. ” ’   ”I happened to hear Hillary Clinton say that I was not against   the war in Iraq,” he said Wednesday. ”I was totally against the   war in Iraq. You can look at Esquire magazine from ’’04. You can   look at before that.” ’ ’   NBC host Matt Lauer was strongly criticized by his colleagues in   the media for not rebuffing Trump, who  ”yeah, I guess so” when   asked if he was in favor of the Iraq War, adding, ”I wish the   first time it was done correctly.” ’ ’   ”I opposed going in,” Trump said on Thursday. ”And I did oppose   it, despite the media saying no, yes, no. I opposed going in.” ’ ”   The New York businessman claimed he opposed the war from the   beginning, long after his interview with Stern when he   halfheartedly said he’d be for the conflict. ” ”   He cited an interview from January 2003  —   right before the war’s   outbreak  —   with Fox News host Neil Cavuto as proof of his   opposition before it started. ” ’   ”I said in an interview with Neil Cavuto that perhaps we   shouldn’’t be doing it yet and that the economy, these were   quotes, that the economy, this was on live television, the   economy is a much bigger problem as far as the president is   concerned,” he said. ”This was before the war started by a very   short distance.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Here’s  in that appearance on Cavuto’s program, after   Cavuto asked whether President George W. Bush should be more   focused on the economy or on the potential Iraq War: ” ’   Although Trump expressed skepticism about the war, he did not   outright oppose it in this appearance. ’ ’   Trump then cited an interview from March 2003, when he was quoted   by The Washington Post as saying the war was ”a mess.” ’ ’   ”Just after the war had started, just days after the war had   started, just a little while after, I was quoted as saying the   war is a mess,” Trump said in his Thursday speech in Cleveland.   ”And yet, more evidence that I had opposed the war from the   start. I said the war is a mess on television, somewhere.” ’ ’   But Trump also expressed in another interview with Cavuto right   after the onset of the war that he thought the war looked ”like a   tremendous success from a military standpoint”: ’ ’   In December 2003, also speaking with Cavuto, Trump again   expressed skepticism about the war, but not outright opposition. ’ ”   Here’s what he said after Cavuto asked about the opposition to   the war: ” ’   In his Thursday speech, Trump then referenced the August 2004   Esquire article  —   his strongest and earliest rebuke of the Iraq   War more than a year after it began. ’ ’   ”Very early in the conflict,” Trump said. ”Extremely early. Right   in the beginning. Right at the beginning.” ’ ’  ’ ’   In that Esquire interview, Trump called the war a mess he would   ”never have handled” in ”that way”: ’ ’   Trump told CNN’’s Larry King in November 2004 that he did ”not   believe that we made the right decision going into Iraq, but, you   know, hopefully, we’’ll be getting out.” ’ ’   On Thursday, Trump said he saw ”all the lies last night” about   his opposition to the Iraq War. ’ ’   ”’’Donald Trump was always in favor of the war,’’” Trump said, as   if he were a reporter. ”Which is why I had to do this. The media   is so dishonest. So terribly dishonest.” ’ ”   He later added that he would’ve caught Osama bin Laden, the Al   Qaeda leader and plotter of the September 11 attacks, before the   attacks. ” ’   He called the lengthy rant setting ”the record straight” because   ”there is so much lying going on.” ’ ’   ”The Howard statement was long before, and it was the first time   anyone had asked me about Iraq, and I said, ’’Ah, I don’’t know,’’”   Trump said of his initial support of the war. ”That was   superseded because before the war, much closer, I gave statements   that we shouldn’’t go into the war.” ’ ’   Trump did not provide such statements in his rant. ’ ’   ”Had I been in Congress at the time of the invasion, I would’’ve   cast a vote in opposition,” he said. ”Here’’s the bottom line: I   was a private citizen. I had no access to briefings or great   intelligence . .. like [Clinton] did. I had no access to anything.   I was a private citizen.” ’