’  ’ ’   The   industry faces many unique challenges to doing   business. ’ ”   Most companies in the space are  can’t use credit cards for transactions,   and can’t get loans. It all creates huge headaches for the   industry. ” ”   On top of that, marijuana is like any other commodity: When   there’s a supply glut, the price plummets. And that’s exactly   what’s happening in legal markets like Colorado. ” ’   Cultivators are ramping up production and the  is dropping, causing profit margins for   growers to decline as well. ’ ”   Marijuana companies  —   especially those that deal with the plant   directly  —   are squeezed between the high cost of doing business   and lower profit margins from the plummeting price of pot. And   then there’s the banking problem ” ’   Financial institutions that do business with marijuana companies   often charge exorbitant fees to offset some of the risks of   dealing with these businesses, as marijuana is still . ’ ’   In its most recent ”,” the Fed made two references to the nascent marijuana   industry’’s banking troubles (emphasis added): ’ ’   What the Fed is saying here, essentially, is that banks are being   pushed to come up with more rigorous compliance and     controls in states with legal marijuana. And   these extra expenses have caused some banks to either raise their   costs (sometimes prohibitively) for marijuana business clients or   drop their accounts with marijuana companies entirely. ’ ’  ’ ”   The regulations stem from  which created a set of guidelines for banks to follow   if they do business with marijuana companies, based on the   recommendations of the Department of Justice’s . The DOJ’s memo stipulates the federal law   enforcement priorities for dealing with marijuana businesses. ” ”   Banks themselves, according to the FinCEN guidelines, must   provide the due diligence necessary to show that their clients   aren’t breaking any federal or state laws. As well, banks must   file Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) for any marijuana   businesses they work with. ” ”   Complying with FinCEN’s guidelines is an expensive proposition   for banks, and these costs are often transferred onto legally   operating marijuana companies. These companies end up getting   charged huge sums just for the privilege of putting their money   in banks. ” ’   The other choice for banks is simply to cease doing business with   the marijuana industry. MBank  —   a small bank in Oregon  —   decided   to close its marijuana accounts because the resources required to   comply with the byzantine  vastly outstripped the   potential revenue gains, according to . ’ ”   It’s just too expensive, and too risky, for many banks to do   business with marijuana companies. Until the profit potential of   marijuana outstrips the costs of compliance for the banks, it’s   unlikely the situation will change. ”