RALEIGH, N. C.  —   Ending an acrimonious stalemate that dragged on for nearly a month, Gov. Pat McCrory, a Republican, conceded in his bid for   here on Monday, clearing the way for the ascension of his challenger, the Democrat Roy Cooper, and giving the national Democratic Party a rare cause for celebration. Mr. Cooper, the state attorney general, declared victory on election night, but Mr. McCrory’s allies lodged election challenges in dozens of North Carolina counties, enraging Democrats who accused Republicans of being sore losers, or worse, in one of 2016’s closest statewide races. Most of the challenges proved to be of little consequence, however. And by Monday, as partial results of a recount of more than 90, 000 votes that Republicans had demanded in Durham County showed no significant change in the results, Mr. McCrory  —   whose one term was buffeted by nationwide anger over a law he signed that curbed   protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people  —   had little choice but to admit defeat. “Despite continued questions that should be answered regarding the voting process, I personally believe that the majority of our citizens have spoken and we now should do everything we can to support the 75th governor of North Carolina, Roy Cooper,” Mr. McCrory said in a video statement released on Monday. Mr. Cooper issued a written statement moments after. “It will be the honor of my life to serve this great state,” he said. “While this was a divisive election season, I know still that there is more that unites us than divides us. Together, we can make North Carolina the shining beacon in the south by investing in our schools, supporting working families and building a state that works for everyone. ” The sealing of Mr. Cooper’s victory  —   he leads by just over 10, 000 votes in the unofficial state tally  —   brings a modicum of relief to Democrats here. Many of them had feared a   Day power play by North Carolina’s Republicans, who control the state’s General Assembly, where the Republicans in recent years have enacted aggressive gerrymandering plans and a law curtailing voter access that have been struck down by the federal courts. Some feared that the Republicans would take advantage of a law that allows contested elections to be settled by a vote of the legislature. Nationally, the Democrats face far broader challenges. Mr. Cooper takes office in a year when Republicans further consolidated their dominance of governors’ offices on Nov. 8, with the total number of Republican governorships rising to 33 from 31. Mr. Cooper, 59, who has served as North Carolina’s attorney general since 2001, positioned himself as the kind of moderate Democrat who set the tone in state government here for many years before 2010, when Republicans won control of both houses of the legislature for the first time since the late 19th century. Republicans further consolidated power in 2012 with the election of Mr. McCrory. As a mayor of Charlotte, Mr. McCrory was known as a moderate and pragmatist, a reputation that attracted many Democrats to his 2012 campaign. But the legislature pushed, and he generally supported an ambitious conservative agenda, rolling back the state’s generous   rules. The legislature also passed expanded rights for gun owners, a   voucher plan, new abortion regulations and a tax overhaul that opponents criticized for favoring the wealthy. The backlash, in a state with one of the South’s most vigorous liberal contingents, was perhaps inevitable. In 2013, progressives began a sustained series of protests in Raleigh, the state capital, called “Moral Mondays” that galvanized opposition and drew news media attention with numerous acts of civil disobedience. Mr. McCrory, who often seemed caught in the middle of these two forces, suffered his biggest blow beginning in March, when he signed the law commonly known as House Bill 2, or H. B. 2. The law nullified local government ordinances establishing   protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, and it required people in publicly owned buildings to use restrooms that corresponded with the gender listed on their birth certificates, which liberals saw as an attack on transgender rights. National lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender groups helped marshal nationwide opposition. Soon, major performers were canceling concerts. The N. C. A. A. and the Atlantic Coast Conference moved sports championships out of the state. The N. B. A. moved its   Game to New Orleans. This undercut Mr. McCrory’s central argument for  : that he had been a good steward of the state economy and had engineered a “Carolina comeback” with regulatory and tax relief that helped lower the state’s unemployment rate. Mr. Cooper’s television ads argued that H. B. 2 had “trashed” the North Carolina brand. In a number of ads, Mr. Cooper, who hails from rural Nash County, appeared smiling and positive, speaking directly to the camera in his gentle drawl, arguing that developments like H. B. 2 had also caused the state to take its eye off more important priorities. “Instead of social issues, I’ll focus on our schools and keeping good teachers with better pay,” he said in one. In a statement on Monday, Chad Griffin, president of the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights organization, said: “Pat McCrory’s reign of discrimination is finally over. McCrory’s stubborn and reckless support of H. B. 2 cost him this election, and his defeat sends a powerful warning to lawmakers across the country that targeting L. G. B. T. Q. people will not be tolerated. ” But Mr. Cooper will come into office seriously constrained by the Republican legislature. In addition to other humiliations for Democrats  —     Donald J. Trump won North Carolina, and Republican Senator Richard M. Burr cruised to    —   the Democrats, despite their   confidence, failed to pick up enough seats in the State House of Representatives to undo a veto override power of the Republicans. Whether Mr. Cooper will be able to act as anything more than a figurehead remains to be seen. What appears more likely is a continuation  —   if not an amplification  —   of the acrimony between the two parties in the wake of the Republicans’ challenges of the election. Democrats have interpreted the challenges as an effort to delegitimize Mr. Cooper before his swearing in, and perhaps lay the groundwork for further restrictions on voting. As Mr. Cooper’s allies called on Mr. McCrory to concede and drop the challenges, a McCrory campaign spokesman, Ricky Diaz, said, “Why is Roy Cooper so insistent on circumventing the electoral process and counting the votes of dead people and felons?” Bob Hall, the executive director of the advocacy group Democracy North Carolina, said that 43 voters were listed in the    challenges as being ineligible felons, but that “nearly half” of them were not serving a felony sentence. More than 4. 7 million votes were cast. Dallas Woodhouse, the executive director of the state Republican Party, prefers to emphasize that about half of the 43 votes by the supposed felons were, in fact, ineligible. In an interview on Sunday, he argued that the challenges were legitimate, particularly one in Bladen County that charged that hundreds of   absentee ballots were cast fraudulently. “We have made multiple efforts to try to look at these things from a sober perspective,” he said, adding, “The Democrats tried to intimidate us by saying you can’t question anything. ”