’  ’ ’   GENEVA (AP)    The United States and Russia early Saturday   announced a breakthrough agreement on Syria that foresees a   nationwide   starting next Monday, followed a week later   by an unlikely new military partnership between the rival   governments targeting the Islamic State and  . ’ ’   U. S. Secretary of State John Kerry said shortly after midnight   that the plan could reduce violence in Syria and lead to a     political transition, ending more than five years of   bloodshed. ’ ’   He called the deal a potential ”turning point” in a conflict that   has killed as many as 500, 000 people, if complied with by Syria’’s     government and U. S.  rebel groups. ’ ’   The   begins at sundown Sept. 12, Kerry said, coinciding   with the Muslim Eid   holiday. ’ ”   Kerry’s negotiating partner, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey   Lavrov, confirmed the agreement and said it could help expand the   counterterrorism fight and aid deliveries to Syrian civilians. He   said Syrian President Bashar Assad’s government was prepared to   comply. ” ’   ”This is just the beginning of our new relations,” Lavrov said. ’ ’   The deal culminates months of frenetic diplomacy that included   four meetings between Kerry and Lavrov since Aug. 26, and a   lengthy    in China between Presidents Barack Obama and   Vladimir Putin. The arrangement hinges on Moscow pressuring   Assad’’s government to halt all offensive operations against   Syria’’s armed opposition and civilian areas. Washington must   persuade ”moderate” rebels to break ranks with the Nusra Front,    ’’s Syria affiliate, and other extremist groups. ’ ’   Both sides have failed to deliver their ends of the bargain over   several previous truces. ’ ’   But the new arrangement goes further by promising a new   U. S.  counterterrorism alliance, only a year after Obama   chastised Putin for a military intervention that U. S. officials   said was mainly designed to keep Assad in power and target more   moderate   forces. ’ ’  ’ ’   Russia, in response, has chafed at America’’s financial and   military assistance to groups that have intermingled with the   Nusra Front on the battlefield. Kerry said it would be ”wise” for   opposition forces to separate completely from Nusra, a statement   Lavrov hailed. ’ ’   ”Going after Nusra is not a concession to anybody,” Kerry said.   ”It is profoundly in the interests of the United States.” ’ ”   The military deal would go into effect after both sides abide by   the truce for a week and allow unimpeded humanitarian deliveries.   Then, the U. S. and Russia would begin intelligence sharing and   targeting coordination, while Assad’s forces would no longer be   permitted to target Nusra any longer; they would be restricted to   operations against the Islamic State. ” ’   The proposed level of U. S.  interaction has upset several   leading national security officials in Washington, including   Defense Secretary Ash Carter and National Intelligence Director   James Clapper, and Kerry only appeared at the news conference   after several hours of internal U. S. discussions. ’ ’   At one point, Lavrov said he was considering ”calling it a day”   on talks, expressing frustration with what he described as an     wait for a U. S. response. He then presented   journalists with several boxes of pizza, saying, ”This is from   the U. S. delegation,” and two bottles of vodka, adding, ”This is   from the Russian delegation.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The Geneva negotiating session, which last more than 13 hours,   underscored the complexity of a conflict that includes myriad   militant groups, shifting alliances and the rival interests of   the U. S. and Russia, Saudi Arabia and Iran, and Turkey and the   Kurds. ’ ”   Getting Assad’s government and rebel groups to comply with the   deal may now be more difficult as fighting rages around the   divided city of Aleppo, Syria’s most populous and the new focus   of a war that has killed as many as 500, 000 people. ” ”   Assad’s government appeared to tighten its siege of the former   Syrian commercial hub in the last several days, seizing several   key transit points. Forty days of fighting in Aleppo has killed   nearly 700 civilians, including 160 children, according to a   Syrian human rights group. Volunteer first responders said they   pulled the bodies of nine people, including four children, from   rubble following air raids Friday on a   area. ” ’   Kerry outlined several steps the government and rebels would have   to take. They must now pull back from demilitarized zones, and   allow civilian traffic and humanitarian deliveries. ’ ”   But as with previous blueprints for peace, Saturday’s plan   appears to lack enforcement mechanisms. Russia could, in theory,   threaten to act against rebel groups that break the deal. But if   Assad bombs his opponents, the U. S. is unlikely to take any   action against him given Obama’s longstanding opposition to   entering the civil war. ” ”   In addition to those killed, Syria’s conflict has chased millions   of people from their homes, contributing to Europe’s worst   refugee crisis since World War II. Amid the chaos of fighting   between Syria’s government and rebels, the Islamic State group   has emerged as a global terror threat. ”