’  ’ ’   Prisoners across the country are conducting a nationwide strike   to protest what they call “  slavery,” . ’ ’   On September 9, the 45th anniversary of the Attica prison riot,   inmates from 40 prisons in 24 states are attempting to bring   America’s   prison economy to a grinding halt   in a coordinated effort to highlight the injustices of prison   labor, strike leaders told Mother Jones. ’ ”   If the movement succeeds, it could turn out to be the   biggest prison strike in the nation’s history. ” ’   ”This is a call to end slavery in America,” reads  (IWOC). ”They cannot run these facilities   without us.”  ’ ’   The group claims slavery is “alive and well” in the prison   system. ’ ’   ”Work is good for anyone,” says Melvin    solitary at the Donaldson   Correctional Facility in Bessemer, Alabama, quoted by Mother   Jones. ”The problem is that our work is producing services that   we’’re being charged for, that we don’’t get any compensation   from.”  ’ ’  ’ ’   Nearly 900, 000 inmates are currently working in prisons.   Prisoners work for free in at least three states  —  Texas,   Arkansas, and Georgia. In federal prisons, inmates earn about 12   to 40 cents an hour as plumbers, painters, or groundskeepers  —     working is mandatory unless inmates are medically unable,   .  ’ ’   Paul Wright with  told   Mother Jones, “if they refuse to work, they can be punished by   having their sentences lengthened and being placed in solitary   confinement.” ’ ’   “They may have replaced the whip with pepper spray, but many of   the other torments remain: isolation, restraint positions,   stripping off our clothes and investigating our bodies as though   we are animals,” reads the statement from the IWOC,   describing the punishment prisoners would get if their   performance was not to their overseers’ liking. ’ ’ne of the   objectives for the strike is to raise awareness among inmates   “that not only do we have a significant role in our   incarceration, we have a significant opportunity to bring about   our own freedom. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   The coordinated effort was made possible through modern   technology, generally forbidden to prisoners, .  ’ ’   Inmates are able to use cellphones to amplify their message.   Although US prison authorities have been constantly trying to   intercept the smuggling of mobile phones from the outside,   ””  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Free Alabama Movement, has a  group and   a  with videos of   prisoner testimonials about poor living conditions in   prison  —   including claims of    and .  ’ ’   “Our social media platform thrusts us out there in ways we didn’t   even imagine,”   told WIRED. “With access to the   Internet, we had enough information to build relationships,   connect people, start a movement, and reach out to the world.   I’ve got more journalists’ phone numbers than regular people’s. ” ’ ’   ’ ’  ’