’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (AP)  —   The man who tried to assassinate President   Ronald Reagan has been released from a Washington mental hospital   for good, more than 35 years after the shooting. ’ ”   A spokeswoman for the District of Columbia’s Department of Mental   Health said early Saturday that all patients scheduled to leave   St. Elizabeths Hospital had been discharged.   John  Jr. was among those   scheduled for discharge. ” ’   An Associated Press reporter saw a hired car pull into the   driveway of the  home about 2:30   p. m. Officers from the Kingsmill Police Department chased   reporters away. ’ ”   A federal judge ruled in late July that the       is not a danger to   himself or the public and can live   at his mother’s home   in Williamsburg. ” ’ had already been visiting Williamsburg   for long stretches at a time and preparing for the     transition. He’’ll have to follow a lot of rules while in   Williamsburg, but his longtime lawyer Barry Levine says he   thinks  will be a ”citizen about   whom we can all be proud.” ’ ’’ ’   This is what life will look like in Williamsburg   for : ’ ’   ___ ’ ” will have to work or volunteer at   least three days a week. He hasn’t yet done paid work in   Williamsburg, but he has volunteered at a church and a mental   health hospital, where he has worked in the library and in food   service. ” ’   ___ ’ ’ mother lives in the gated community   of Kingsmill. The unassuming home is on the 13th hole of a golf   course.  room has a     bed and TV and is decorated with paintings he has done of houses   and cats, according to court documents. In the past, he has done   chores like cleaning, dishwashing, laundry and  . After   a year, he may live alone or with roommates. ’ ’   ___ ’ ” will continue to go to therapy while   in Williamsburg. For at least the first six months he’ll see his   psychiatrist twice a month and he’ll have to attend weekly group   therapy sessions. He’ll also see a therapist individually. He’ll   return to Washington once a month to St. Elizabeths’ outpatient   department to discuss his mental health and compliance with the   conditions of his leave. ” ’   ___ ’ ” got a driver’s license in 2011. The   court order in his case lets him drive within 30 miles of   Williamsburg by himself, which gets him to Newport News but not   Norfolk. He can go up to 50 miles from the city if accompanied by   his mom, sibling or a therapist or social worker. He can also   drive to and from Washington once a month for his outpatient   meetings. ” ’   ___ ’ ” has long considered himself a musician   and an artist. He paints and plays the guitar and has been   involved in both as part of his therapy. He’ll continue to see a   music therapist once a month while in Williamsburg. At court   hearings in the case in late 2011 and early 2012, lawyers   discussed the fact that  had   recently developed an interest in photography. ” ”   There are limits to how  can spend   his leisure time. He also can’t drink or use illegal drugs. He   can surf the web but, at least initially, he’s not allowed to   search for information about his crimes or victims, among other   things. He can’t have accounts on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram,   YouTube or LinkedIn without permission. ” ’   ___ ’ ” can register to vote in Virginia. He   has expressed an interest in voting in the past and tried   unsuccessfully to get a ballot in the 1980s and   1990s.  lawyer, Barry Levine,   told a newspaper in early August that he thinks his client will   register to vote. Virginia’s deadline to register for the   November presidential election is Oct. 17. ” ’   ___ ’ ”   Don’t expect to see  giving any   interviews. He’s barred from talking to the press. ” ’   ___ ’ ’   Follow Jessica Gresko on Twitter at   https:  . . Her work can be found at   http:  . ap.   . ’