’  ’ ’   North Korea’s  this   morning was not a surprise. On multiple occasions over the past   six months, senior officials (including Kim   the North’s   impetuous young leader) have openly disclosed plans for   additional testing. ’ ’   In March —  while on a visit to a nuclear research and development   facility —  Kim said the next test would occur “” and that it   would be a “a nuclear warhead explosion test. ” Despite     opposition and warnings of  Pyongyang has made good on its threat. ’ ’   Even in the absence of a technical assessment of the test   results, some facts are already clear. For one, this is the first   time that North Korea has tested twice in one year (its previous   test was  when Pyongyang   claimed to have successfully tested a thermonuclear weapon, but   that’s widely doubted). Until now, its tests have on average   occurred about every three years. ’ ’   Today’s test had an estimated yield of approximately 10 kilotons,   appreciably larger than the four previous nuclear detonations. ’ ’   North Korea announced the latest test not through governmental or   diplomatic channels, but from technical personnel affiliated with   an organization identified as the “Nuclear Weapons Institute of   the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. ” The institute made a   very specific claim that the test was of “. ” ’ ’    It further claimed that the purported warhead was now   standardized and could be utilized on an array of ballistic   missiles. Until now, Pyongyang had described tests of its nuclear   weapons by a variety of names, but never as a warhead. ’ ’  ’ ’   As the statement concluded: “the standardization of the nuclear   warhead will enable the DPRK to produce at will and as many as it   wants a variety of smaller, lighter and diversified nuclear   warheads of higher strike power. ” By implication, Pyongyang now   believes it has achieved its   goals in nuclear weapons   development, without disclosing the scope and scale of its   ultimate ambitions. ’ ’   Is it possible that North Korea sees no immediate need for   additional weapons testing? This question cannot be answered, and   Pyongyang has a long history of changing its policy stances when   it deems such changes necessary. ’ ’   Thus, short of an atmospheric test, there is no way to validate   the North’s claims. But it clearly wants the outside world to   conclude that its weapons capabilities are now an established,   irreversible fact. Moreover, today’s nuclear test took place   amidst a major, sustained acceleration of its missile programs,   which Kim also promised in March. ’ ’   The  —  for   which Kim himself was present —  occurred only days ago, with the   simultaneous launch of three SCUD extended range missiles, all of   which landed well within Japan’s air defense identification zone.   As in most previous instances, North Korea failed to inform the   International Civil Aviation Organization of the impending tests,   which could easily have placed commercial aviation flights at   risk. ’ ’  ’ ’   Kim is indisputably a leader on a mission, and he shows no   interest or inclination in adhering to international norms. As   U. S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power highlighted   during recent debate at the U. N. Security Council (shortly before   it issued a unanimous statement ) North Korea has tested ballistic missiles on 22   separate occasions this year alone. ’ ’   This included the first successful test of a       ballistic missile and multiple launches of the Musudan     mobile missile, though only the last of these tests   was demonstrably successful. ’ ’   The pressing task for the outside world is to move toward far   greater candor and cooperation in assessing: ’ ’   None of these are new issues. But the North’s nuclear and missile   testing of recent weeks and months gives them added urgency that   cannot be ignored. It will also be a lead item that the Obama   administration —  despite its repeated efforts to curtail North   Korea’s weapons programs through increased cooperation with all   affected states —  will bequeath to the next president. ’