’  ’ ”   Oklahoma State thought they had survived Saturday’s matchup   against Central Michigan when they ran out the clock up  .   But that’s just when the craziness started, and now it seems the   officials cost the Cowboys the game. ” ’   Mayhem started when Oklahoma State had the ball and was facing a   fourth down with less than 10 seconds to go. Quarterback Mason   Rudolph threw a long pass downfield just to run out the clock. ’ ’   But as the players started to go on to the field, thinking the   game was over, the officials were discussing a penalty. ’ ’   It turns out the pass was illegal since there were no receivers   downfield. It was ruled intentional grounding. ’ ’ ’ ’   The officials met at the middle of the field and determined that   the game would be extended with one untimed down, since the game   cannot end on a penalty. ’ ’  ’ ’   This gave the ball to Central Michigan for one play, from their   own   line, with no time on the clock. ’ ’   Sure enough, Central Michigan threw a Hail Mary pass that was   caught inside the   line. But just when it seemed like the   receiver was going to be tackled short of the end zone, he   lateraled the ball to wide receiver Corey Willis, who ran all the   way to the other side of the field and just got into the end zone   before being tackled. ’ ’   Central Michigan wins! ’ ’ ’ ’   But should they have? Apparently not. ’ ’   According to Mike Pereira of Fox Sports, the officials erred in   giving Central Michigan an extra play in the first place. ’ ’   While a game cannot end on an accepted penalty, the rule book   does have an exception to the rule, that being penalties against   the offense that also include loss of down. The     penalty does include loss of down. ’ ’   ”The rule book does state that you don’’t extend for an offensive   penalty if the offensive penalty includes loss of down, which the   intentional grounding did,” Pereira said. ”We are looking at a   misenforced penalty here in extending the game when it shouldn’’t   have been extended period.” ’ ’   Pereira went on to quote Rule   : ” ’ ’   At this point it is unclear what steps Oklahoma State can take.   In one sense, it would be easy for officials to just erase the   last play since you can clearly define how the game would have   ended otherwise. But Pereira was doubtful that anything can be   done since another play was run. ’ ’   Wow. ’