’  ’ ’   The current movie business has been a sobering   call for a   number of directors who were living high on the hog in Hollywood   for most of the 1980s and 1990s, and one of them is certainly   Oliver Stone. ’ ’   At one time Stone taking on the likes of NSA whistleblower Edward   Snowden would have had the major studios going into a frenzied   bidding war. But the times of studios making movies like Stone   classics ”Platoon,” ”JFK,” and even ”Natural Born Killers” is   long gone. ’ ”   If it doesn’t have a superhero or franchise possibilities they   won’t touch it, and Stone isn’t into doing either of those. ” ’   So with ”Snowden” Stone hooked up with independent distributor   Open Road Films, the same company that released last year’’s best   picture Oscar winner, ”Spotlight,” but doesn’’t have the deep   pockets of a major studio Stone is used to. ’ ’   However, the project was able to land big names like Joseph     to play Snowden and Shailene Woodley as his   girlfriend, Lindsay Mills. ’ ”   In many ways, Stone looks at the major points in the Snowden     with a steady hand, blending in nicely the false   promises during the Obama campaign for president of not being   like the previous administration when it comes to NSA privacy   tactics and the chemistry between   and Mills is very   believable (I even got used to  ’s impersonation of   Snowden’s voice). ” ’  ’ ”   But then the movie suddenly tries to be a thriller and that’s   when everything falls off the rails. ” ”   The last third of the film follows Snowden while he’s in Hawaii   and a series of events leads him to grabbing classified files   which he’ll then hand to journalist Glenn Greenwald (played by   Zachary Quinto) and filmmaker Laura Poitras (Melissa Leo) to   release to the public. ” ”   The building of tension in these scenes and the race for Snowden   to take the files from his office before anyone can notice is so   forced it’s comical. ” ’   Had Stone put these events in the continued dramatic tone of the   rest of the movie, it would have had a better payoff in the end. ’ ’   It’’s a tactic that movies often use to get people to the theater   (I get it, hacking and displaying the world of computer geeks is   a boring topic) embellish the ”based on a true story” angle to   fit in some things that will build the theatrics of the   story.  ’ ’  ’ ’   In fact, one of the books the movie is based on is a   fictionalized account of Snowden’’s story written by his Russian   lawyer titled ”Time of the Octopus.” (The other book, ”The   Snowden Files: The Inside Story of the World’’s Most Wanted Man,”   is authored by someone who has never met Snowden). ’ ”   But trying to make the Snowden story a thriller wasn’t convincing   at all. ” ’   Want a better (and more truthful) story about Snowden, go stream   Poitras’’   documentary on the events that transpired   after Snowden took the documents, ”” ’ ’ ”Snowden” is currently screening at the Toronto International   Film Festival and will be in theaters September 16. ’