’  ’ ”   A spokesman for Hillary Clinton’s campaign said on Monday that   the candidate would be taking some time off after  and promised the release of additional   medical information. ” ’   Brian Fallon, the campaign press secretary, appeared on both CNN   and MSNBC to assure the public that Clinton, the Democratic   presidential nominee, would be back on the trail soon. ’ ’   ”If it was up to her, she would be traveling to California   today,” Fallon told MSNBC. ”But it was her doctor’’s advice for   her to change her schedule. So we’’re going to be down the next   two days. She’’s going to take this opportunity to rest.” ’ ’   Fallon said he expects her back on the trail later this week. ’ ’   ”It was the staff that was really prevailing on her to keep her   doctor’’s recommendation in mind and to take these next two days   off,” Fallon said. ”But even just this morning, she’’s already   been calling staff. She made a couple phone calls this morning.” ’ ’’ ”   Fallon also acknowledged that the campaign should have disclosed   Clinton’s pneumonia diagnosis sooner. She was diagnosed with the   illness on Friday but the campaign did not publicize it until   Sunday, when she had to leave a   memorial event early and was    having trouble walking and stumbling into a   vehicle. ” ’   ”The senior staff was aware on Friday, and then word spread in   the campaign after that,” Fallon told CNN. ”But look, it was her   decision to want to press on, that is her impulse, and that’’s the   type of president she would be, working her heart out.” ’ ”   CNN host Wolf Blitzer asked if the campaign would have disclosed   the pneumonia diagnosis if the video hadn’t surfaced. ” ’   ”I think the video was not necessary to providing that   information because as it was, she left the event early, we were   already pressed to explain why she left early, and it took us a   bit to get that information together to release a statement,”   Fallon said. ’ ’   He continued: ”But in retrospect, I think we should have provided   more information more quickly, but yes, I think regardless of   whether the video surfaced or not, in the aftermath of that event   yesterday, I think we would have made the same decision to have   her rest these next couple days and to disclose that she had been   diagnosed with the pneumonia on Friday.” ’ ’   He clarified that the pneumonia is not contagious. ’ ’   Fallon also said on MSNBC that the campaign would release   additional medical information later this week. ’ ’   ”We’’ve been in touch with her this morning and it is our   intention that in the next couple of days we’’re going to be   releasing additional medical information about Hillary Clinton,”   Fallon said. ”We’’re going to be releasing that to further put to   rest any lingering concerns about what you saw yesterday.” ’ ’   Fallon assured viewers that Clinton is otherwise in good health. ’ ’   ”It really is the case that there is no other undisclosed   condition,” Fallon said. ”The pneumonia is the extent of it.” ’