’  ’ ”     North Carolina has lost its next chance to host   NCAA men’s basketball tournament games along with several other   championship events due to a state law that some say can lead to   discrimination against LGBT people. ” ’   And the fallout may not be over. ’ ”   After the NCAA announced it is pulling seven championship events   from North Carolina for this year, Atlantic Coast Conference   Commissioner John Swofford  —   whose league hosts many sporting   events in the state, including its football championship game  —     said the ACC’s council of presidents were set to discuss the law   at a previously scheduled meeting later this week. ” ’   The ACC football championship game, held in Charlotte since 2010,   is the last marquee college sporting event left in the state   during the   season. While Swofford it would be ”premature”   to make any decisions about holding events in North Carolina for   now, he also issued a clear statement against the law. ’ ’   ”On a personal note,” Swofford said, ”it’’s time for this bill to   be repealed as its counter to basic human rights.” ’ ’’ ’   In a news release Monday, the NCAA says the decision by its board   of governors came ”because of the cumulative actions taken by the   state concerning civil rights protections.” ’ ’   The law  —   known as HB2  —   requires transgender people to use   restrooms at schools and government buildings corresponding to   the sex on their birth certificates. It also excludes gender   identity and sexual orientation from local and statewide   antidiscrimination protections. ’ ’   HB2 was signed into law by Republican Gov. Pat McCrory earlier   this year. A spokesman with McCrory’’s office couldn’’t immediately   be reached for comment Monday evening, but a spokeswoman with the   state Republican party blasted the NCAA’’s decision in a   statement, saying it is ”so absurd it’’s almost comical.” ’ ’   ”I wish the NCAA was this concerned about the women who were   raped at Baylor,” spokeswoman Kami Mueller said Monday night. ’ ’   The only championship events that can be hosted in North Carolina   this academic year are ones determined when a team earns the   right to play on its own campus. ’ ”   The NCAA said it will relocate the men’s basketball   and     games that were scheduled for March 17 and 19 in   Greensboro. The NCAA will also relocate: ” ”    —   the Division I women’s soccer championship scheduled for Dec. 2   and 4 in Cary, just outside the capital city of Raleigh; ” ”    —   the Division III men’s and women’s soccer championships set for   Dec. 2 and 3 in Greensboro; ” ”    —   the Division I women’s golf regional championships set for May     in Greenville; ” ”    —   the Division III men’s and women’s tennis championships set for   May   in Cary; ” ”    —   the Division I women’s lacrosse championship set for May 26 and   28 in Cary; ” ’    —   and the Division II baseball championship from May 27 to June 3   in Cary. ’ ”   The state has been a frequent host for NCAA men’s basketball   tournament games. In all, the NCAA said North Carolina has hosted   251 men’s tournament games since 1951, the most of any state. ” ”   Athletic directors at three of the state’s ACC schools  —   North   Carolina’s Bubba Cunningham, North Carolina State’s Debbie Yow   and Wake Forest’s Ron Wellman  —   issued statements saying they   were disappointed at the loss of events. Duke AD Kevin White went   further, saying the school agreed with the NCAA’s decision. ” ’   ”Our position has been clear on this matter, which is that this   legislation is discriminatory, troubling and embarrassing,” White   said. ’ ”   The campaign spokesman for Democrat Roy Cooper, the state’s   attorney general and McCrory’s   opponent in November,   also said the law needs to be repealed. ” ’   ”It seems that almost every day, we learn of a new consequence of   HB2,” spokesman Ford Porter said. ”. .. We need to repeal this law   and get our state back on track.” ’ ”   NCAA President Mark Emmert said in statement Monday night that   the governing body will delay announcements on future   championship sites until early next year. That comes as it   reviews responses to questionnaires required of prospective site   hosts on how they would comply with the NCAA’s     measure. ” ”   In its announcement Monday, the NCAA took special note of ways   North Carolina’s law differs from other states. The NCAA pointed   out that five states  —   Connecticut, Minnesota, New York, Vermont   and Washington  —   and several cities prohibit travel by public   employees and representatives of public institutions to the state   of North Carolina. The representatives prohibited to travel could   include athletes, coaches and athletic administrators. ” ”   Monday’s action by the NCAA is the latest public and business   backlash that has arisen since the law was enacted. The NBA moved   its 2017   Game to New Orleans instead of hosting it in   Charlotte as originally scheduled because of the law. Duke lost a   men’s basketball game from its schedule when Albany backed out   due to that state’s travel ban, while the Vermont women’s   basketball team has canceled a December trip to play North   Carolina in Chapel Hill. ” ’   Entertainers like Bruce Springsteen, Pearl Jam and Ringo Starr   have canceled plans to play in North Carolina. And PayPal   reversed plans to open a   operation center in   Charlotte. ’ ’   ___ ’ ’   Follow Aaron Beard on Twitter at   http:  . twitter.  ’