’  ’ ”   Allen Artis, a linebacker on the University of North Carolina at   Chapel Hill’s football team, has turned himself in to police on   misdemeanor charges of sexual battery and assault on a female,   . ” ’   Artis has also been suspended from the football team in   accordance with university policy. ’ ”   Delaney Robinson, 19, a sophomore at UNC, says Artis, 21, raped   her on Valentine’s Day. In a press conference Tuesday, Robinson   said she came forward after seven months because of what she   described as misconduct and a lack of action on the school’s   part. ” ’   Robinson said she was raped at an apartment complex at UNC called   Ram Village in February, when she was an    freshman. ’ ”   During the press conference, Robinson’s attorney, Denise Branch,   said the Orange County district attorney’s office had sent an   email saying District Attorney James Woodall would not pursue   criminal charges against Artis. ” ’   ”For more than six months we have asked the university and the   Orange County district attorney’’s office to hold Delaney’’s rapist   accountable for his actions. At every turn we have been met with   discouragement and delay,” . ’ ’   ”No victim services have been offered to Delaney, either from Jim   Woodall’’s office or from the Department of Public Safety,” Branch   said at the press conference. ’ ’   Woodall, however,  the investigation remained active at his   office and at UNC. ’ ’   ”I have worked in the DA’’s office for 26 years and have   prosecuted many, many UNC students, including UNC athletes, for   very serious crimes, including rape,” Woodall said. ”From our   perspective, it’’s immaterial who the alleged person [is] and it   doesn’’t factor into our decision.” ’ ’   Branch says Robinson fully cooperated with the university and the   police by providing them with names of witnesses, photographs,   and a detailed timeline of the evening leading up to the time she   said she was raped. Robinson also said she went through invasive   physical exams. ’ ’   Branch said inaction from law enforcement and the university   caused her client to take an ”extraordinary step” of meeting with   a magistrate and requesting   warrants  —   warrants that   citizens can request  —   for the arrest of Artis. ’ ”   A judge issued the warrants on charges of misdemeanor assault on   a female and misdemeanor sexual battery, and the sheriff’s office   currently holds them, Branch said during the press conference. ” ’   The warrants say Artis had sex with Robinson while she was   ”mentally incapacitated and physically helpless,” according to   USA Today. ’ ’   Robinson, who said she decided to forgo the usual anonymity   offered to apparent victims of sexual assault, also criticized   the university, especially for its treatment of her when she   reported being assaulted. ’ ’   ”I did not realize that rather than receiving concern and support   from the university, I would only be further victimized by the   people who should be working to keep us safe,” . ”Yes, I was drinking that night . .. I’’m   underage, and I take responsibility for that. But that doesn’’t   give anyone the right to violate me. I did not deserve to be   raped.” ’ ’   She said investigators treated her like a suspect and asked her   ”humiliating” and ”accusatory” questions: ”What was I wearing?   What was I drinking? How much did I drink? . .. Did I lead him on?   Do I often have   stands? How many men have I slept   with?” ’ ’   Branch said the district attorney’’s office also told her that   ”unconsciousness is rape  —     drunk is not rape.” ’ ’   Branch said she was told the office could not bring a charge   against the suspect unless Robinson had been unconscious at the   time, . ’ ’  ’ ”   Robinson and her lawyer say the university also acted in   violation of its own Title IX guidelines when it requested a   report containing the victim’s   content. The   school’s revised Title IX policy is one of  not the absence of consent. ” ’   According to the university’’s policy, affirmative consent implies   that ”consent is the communication of an affirmative, conscious,   and freely made decision by each participant to engage in sexual   activity.” Conversely, ”silence, passivity, or a lack of   resistance” implies an absence of consent. ’ ’   ”You have to have active consent  —   therefore, the alcohol   consumption of the reporting party would be irrelevant,” Branch   said during the press conference. ”The appropriate punishment for   drinking is a citation . .. It is not rape.” ’ ’   Robinson said listening to recorded interviews that the   university’’s Department of Public Safety conducted with Artis   further incensed her. In direct contrast to the way she had been   treated, she said in her statement, investigators talked to Artis   with a ”tone of camradery [sic].” ’ ’   ”They provided reassurances to him when he became upset,” she   said. ”They even laughed with him when he told them how many   girls’’ phone numbers he had managed to get on the same night that   he raped me.” ’ ”   At the press conference, Robinson’s father, Stacey Robinson,    with the way his daughter’s case had   been handled. ” ’   ”Nowhere in this entire process have DPS investigators,   university leadership, or the Orange County district attorney’’s   office expressed concern for my daughter’’s ” Stacey   said. ”We are standing up today to demand better treatment from   the university.” ’ ’ UNC said federal privacy laws prevented the   school from responding to allegations against a student. It also   said: ’ ”   UNC football’s head coach, Larry Fedora, echoed the university’s   statement about student privacy. ” ’   ”We are aware of the misdemeanor charges against Allen Artis,” he   said in an email to Business Insider. ”I cannot comment on either   the allegation or the investigative process. We take these   matters very seriously and are fully cooperating with the   appropriate authorities.” ’ ’   Neither the Orange County district attorney nor the police   department immediately responded to requests for comment by   Business Insider. ’ ”   Robinson’s allegations come on the heels of heightened national   scrutiny over how authorities and the community at large handle   sexual assault, particularly on  and  campuses. ” ” Editor’s note: This story was originally published on   September 13 at 5:37 p. m. and was updated on September 14 at   11:15 a. m. ”