’  ’ ’   Donald Trump is closing in on Hillary Clinton in key swing states   and making gains nationally, according to polls released   Wednesday. ’ ’   A Bloomberg Politics poll  over his Democratic challenger in Ohio, and a  released the same day showed Trump with a similar lead   in Ohio in a   race including Libertarian candidate Gary   Johnson and Green Party candidate Jill Stein. ’ ”   The CNN poll also shows Trump leading Clinton in another   important swing state, Florida, with 47% of the vote to Clinton’s   44% in a   race. ” ”   Trump is also cutting into Clinton’s lead nationally. A  released Wednesday showed Trump   with 43% of the vote and Clinton with 48% among likely voters in   a    race. Just last month, Clinton had a   lead   over Trump in the same poll. ” ’   The numbers get even dicier for Clinton when you factor Johnson   and Stein into the race, with the election appearing to be in a   near deadlock  —   when the Quinnipiac poll expanded to a     race, Clinton took 41% of the vote, Trump took 39% Johnson took   13% and Stein took 4%. ’ ’’ ’   The polls came after a rocky weekend for Clinton. She abruptly   left a   memorial service on Sunday after overheating related   to previously undisclosed pneumonia, and on Saturday was forced   to address a statement saying half of Trump supporters fell into   a ”basket of deplorables.” ’ ’   ”No doubt the pneumonia will pass, but like a nagging cough that   just won’’t go away, Donald Trump defies every remedy Hillary   Clinton throws at him,” Tim Malloy, assistant director of the   Quinnipiac poll, said in a press release. ’ ’   He continued: ”It’’s the definition of ’’damned by faint praise,’’ a   presidential contest where a vote for a candidate is less an   endorsement of that candidate than a stinging rejection of his or   her opponent. Priority one for Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump   as the election looms: lure the cynical, disaffected, downright   disgusted electorate into their camp. That’’s no mean feat as   clouds of distrust loom over both campaigns.” ’ ’   Clinton and Trump are the most unpopular presidential candidates   in modern history, with   negative ratings from voters. ’ ’ Maxwell Tani contributed to this report. ’