’  ’ ’   The   in Syria brokered by the US and Russia has   temporarily put a stop to fighting in some parts of the     country, but it could have unintended consequences that end up   working in favor of the leader whom   rebels are   trying to oust. ’ ’   The   which went into effect on Monday, will in theory   allow humanitarian aid to get through to  a city where civilians have lived with   daily bombardments and a dire lack of food and medical supplies.   The   is also meant to facilitate joint efforts between   the US and Russia to target terrorists in Syria. ’ ’   The weeklong truce, however, has raised red flags for local   actors who ”see it as an Assad regime victory in disguise,”   according to  by The Soufan   Group, a strategic security firm. ’ ”   The concerns are derived from skepticism about Russia’s true aim   in the region. The country inserted itself into the Syrian civil   war last year under the pretense of fighting terrorists, but   Russian President Vladimir Putin seems to be more focused on   bolstering the regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad, a   longtime ally. ” ’   For instance, when a   was most recently put into place,   Russia and the Syrian regime used it to regroup and eventually   target moderate rebels who opposed Assad, senior Pentagon   officials . Some     rebel groups receive support from the US. ’ ’   Fred Hof, a former special adviser for transition in Syria under   Hillary Clinton, then the secretary of state, told Business   Insider in an email that while it was ”too early to tell who the   winners and losers are” in the   the truce could end up   benefitting Assad at the expense of other interests. ’ ’   ”The agreement would be an unadulterated triumph for the Assad   regime if the result is one ultimately reflecting the     neutralization of the   Nusra Front,   but with no corresponding strengthening of the nonextremist   Syrian armed opposition,” said Hof, who is now the director of   the Rafik Hariri Center for the Middle East at the Atlantic   Council. ’ ”   Basically, if the moderate rebels fighting to oust Assad don’t   benefit enough from the   then the Syrian regime, which   is no friend to the US or the Syrian people, will be the clear   winner of the deal. ” ’  ’ ”   There are many players on the Syrian battlefield, and rebels   encompass extremist elements  —   like ISIS and the Al     Nusra Front, which recently rebranded as Jabhat Fateh    —     as well as moderate groups that want to oust Assad but don’t   share the Islamist goals of the extremist groups. ” ’   The US has called on Assad to step down but so far has declined   to carry out direct military action to remove him from power,   leaving that job for the rebels that have received US support. ’ ’   Once the extremist groups are gone, Assad is likely to focus on   destroying any remaining moderate elements of the opposition. ’ ’   Robert Ford, a senior fellow with the Middle East Institute who   was a US ambassador to Syria from 2010 to 2014, told Business   Insider in an email that the   would benefit the Syrian   government ”if it is able to concentrate forces and attack   against the former Nusra Front (now Fateh  ) seizing   strategic positions from it and setting itself up later to pivot   against more moderate elements of the armed opposition.” ’ ’   Further complicating the situation is that moderate rebels have   become increasingly enmeshed with Islamist groups, namely Jabhat   Fateh   which is not a party in the  . Because   the Islamist groups tend to have more arms and money than other   rebel groups, partnering with them on the battlefield became a   matter of survival for the moderate rebels. ’ ’   As of right now, the moderate rebels would have to trust the US   and Russia if they were to separate completely from Jabhat Fateh    . ’ ’   ”Separating from Nusra is something the nonextremist opposition   would like to do, but under current conditions it would not be   easy,” Hof said. ”But if it somehow happens and Nusra is   subsequently neutralized, what would stop Assad and his allies   from pouncing on the nonextremist armed Syrian opposition?” ’ ’  ’ ’   To earn the trust of the Syrian opposition, the Americans would   have to convince Russia that the US would take action if the   Assad regime were to continue to massacre civilians, as it has   done throughout the civil war. ’ ’   ”Nothing good will happen in Syria until civilians come off the   bull’’” Hof said. ’ ’   ”But the country’’s worst actors  —   the Assad regime, Russia, Iran,   and ISIS  —   have used mass murder and terror to great advantage   thus far.” ’ ”   And Russia isn’t exactly a reliable partner in Syria. ” ’   ”The Russians have consistently shielded the Syrian government   from the repercussions of its renewed use of chemical weapons,   war crimes such as indiscriminate bombing of civilian areas and   blocking humanitarian aid access,” Ford said. ”They have   repeatedly lied to try to absolve the Syrian government if its   crimes.” ’ ’   Russia is therefore unlikely to help serve the ultimate interests   of the Syrian people, which is deposing the despot whose regime   has killed more Syrians than any terrorist group. ’ ’   ”The Americans should be very wary of any thought that the   possibility of new   military coordination in Syria will   lead to any change in Russian goals or behavior,” Ford said.   ”There is certainly no sign that Russia is prepared to push   really hard on the Syrian government to make some big compromises   at a political negotiation the Obama administration hopes might   solve the Syrian crisis.” ’ ’   Even US officials  in   this deal. ’ ’   ”I think we’’d have some reasons to be skeptical that the Russians   are able or are willing to implement the arrangement consistent   with the way it’’s been described,” Josh Earnest, the White House   press secretary, said during a Monday briefing. ”But we’’ll see.” ’