’  ’ ”   Over the last  Google has mapped out a vision of its future where   you’ll have a smart assistant following you from phone to wrist   to flatscreen and beyond, conversationally answering your   questions and proactively serving up advice, like when to leave   for the comedy show you searched for the night before. ” ”   While tech giants like Amazon, Microsoft, Apple, and Facebook are   all also eyeing some version of this   powered world,   Google CEO Sundar Pichai has consistently highlighted one of the   things that sets Google’s efforts apart: Its geographic data. ” ”   If Google’s smart assistant ambitions center around giving you   the right information at exactly the right time, Google Maps   provides the keys to context. ” ”   Its combination of rich geographic, business, and personalized   location data can be paired with information from all of   Google’s other services like Gmail and Search to create an   assistant that (Google hopes) you’ll actually want to use. ” ’   Figuring out the best ways to improve that data and put it to use   falls to Jen Fitzpatrick, who has led the Maps division since   fall 2014. ’ ’   “Maps is a pretty incredible swiss army knife of a product,” she   tells Business Insider. “One of the things we’’e thinking a lot   about is, ‘How do we take all of the goodness packed within it   and bring the right part of that tool to the surface in the   moment that’’s right for you? ’’” ’ ’  ’ ’   Fitzpatrick has worked at Google since before it even acquired   the basis for Maps, Where2 Technologies, in 2004. She joined the   ”” as one of its first interns in 1999 and led   software development on products like AdWords and Google News   before heading to Maps.  ’ ’   Back then, there were a lot fewer tech companies with an interest   in maps.  ’ ”   In just the last two years, major companies like Tesla, Uber,   and, most relevantly, Apple have doubled down . Google’s on notice. ” ”   “It reinforces that we can’t stand still,” Fitzpatrick says. “We   feel an incredible sense of urgency to not just take what we have   and keep it going, but to set the bar higher and be the ones who   define what the next generation of maps is going to look like. ” ” ”   The first part of her goal to build “the richest, deepest, most   detailed understanding of the real world that’s ever existed” is   getting all the data right. ” ’  ’ ’   When Business Insider spoke to Fitzpatrick she had just completed   a presentation  the   volunteers who add and edit millions of Maps data points for   restaurants, shops, landmarks, and more.   ’ ’   She told them that their contributions are helping Google get   closer to being able to serve recommendations for complex queries   like ”  nightclubs in Vienna that play Senegalese   music.” ’ ’   The second part is finding new kinds of data to take in. Maps   already uses anonymized info from anyone with the app open or   location services turned on to  but   Fitzpatrick thinks that there are new opportunities ahead too.   Her division  a startup that analyzes the   “Internet of Moving Things,” and Maps is looking for new ways to   incorporate live information about events or natural disasters. ’ ”   Plus, she says that we’re “just at the beginning” of seeing a     ecosystem on top of Maps. Although she didn’t get   into specifics, we’ve already seen Google rolling out more   integrations in the last year, from letting you use OpenTable to   make a restaurant reservations to prompting   services   like Uber and Lyft into the directions section of the app. ” ’   “We are just at the beginning of what I consider to be the ‘next   chapter’ of Google Maps,” she says. ’ ’      ’ ’  ’ ”   If you have your location history turned on, Google’s has been   building a little profile about all the places you’ve   been.   ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’ opened in your neighborhood   could pay to have your smart assistant suggest checking it out   next time you walk by. Google Maps is already testing   ”promoted pins” that offer deals, but, . ’ ’   ”We’’re trying to think about what are the next opportunities to   make location even more central to an advertising   experiences,” Fitzpatrick says.  ’ ”   Right now, Google hasn’t actually  or  the first two  that it announced at its giant developers conference   in May. But they’re coming soon and when they do, it will be Maps   and its data doing much of the work under the hood.  ”