’  ’ ’   California’s   drought has become so serious that   Governor Jerry Brown signed a bill earlier this month requiring   water districts to start imposing penalties on consumers who use   the highest quantities of the precious resource. ’ ’   A new futuristic design concept aims to address the problem   from a different perspective: by proposing a new way to make sea   water drinkable. ’ ’   The Pipe, a giant, floating desalination device, is designed   to be both an artistic landmark and a way to provide California   with a new source of clean water. The project is one of 10   finalists for the  which asked teams to envision innovative     public art projects that can harness clean energy   and convert it into electricity or drinking water. The assigned   location for this year’s competition was Santa Monica,   California. ’ ’  ’ ’   On its exterior, the    Pipe is coated in       solar panels, which harvest power throughout the   day. The energy that the panels gather would be used to take   in seawater and pump it through an electromagnetic filtration   tube hidden on the underside of the floating platform. ’ ’   Aziz Khalili, a   electrical engineer and the project   leader for the Pipe, tells Business Insider that he’s been   thinking about the electromagnetic technology that would   desalinate the water for 30 years. Because the salt and   other materials dissolved in the water are naturally ionized, he   says, the system would take advantage of their natural charge and   use an electromagnetic force to direct those ions to the edges of   the tube. ’ ’  ’ ’   Though magnetized water sounds like science fiction,   Kahili is confident he could get it to work. “This is basic   electromagnetic force and movement, so they are principles of   physics put together,” he says. ’ ’   Khalili’s team claims the Pipe would create 10, 000 megawatt hours   of power annually, which it would use to desalinate 4. 5 billion   liters per year  —   that’s enough water to cover the average daily   usage of approximately 36, 000 people (roughly 40% of Santa   Monica). ’ ’   The results of the desalination process would be two different   kinds of water: one type that’s safe to drink and sent straight   into the city’s water network, and another with 12% salinity that   would be used to fill a series of thermal baths located inside   the tube. ’ ’  ’ ’   Visitors could take a boat out to the floating tube  —   which   would be located 600 to 1000 meters from the   coast  —   and spend time swimming in shallow pools of   cold and hot water. Windows would allow them to look out at the   ocean. The tourist aspect of the tube could allow a city to   sell tickets that could help pay for the tube’s   construction. ’ ’   “At a time, it could hold maybe 500 or 1000 people,” Kahili says. ’ ’   The concentrated saltwater used in the   would then slowly   be emitted back out into the ocean using a smart release system. ’ ’   Unlike conventional methods of desalination, which push water   through a filter that has to be regularly replaced, Kahili says   his process would require less electricity, generate less   industrial waste and create less water pollution. Kahili has   filed for a patent for the technology, which he says he first   conceptualized while working as an engineer at a juice company.   He was trying to figure out a way to distill juice down to   concentrate without using the energy required to heat it up. ’ ’   “It could have many thousands of applications  —   not just for   water desalination but for many other processes,” he says. ’ ’  ’ ’   The winner of the competition will be announced in October   and receive $15, 000. But the top prize does not guarantee the   design will actually be built. Khalili is hopeful, however, that   the publicity his proposal has gained will help bring at least   some of the technology included in it into existence. ’ ’   “If the city says they like it and they give us a go ahead   signal, we could go ahead and start working on it,” he says. ’ ’     ’ ’ Correction: A previous version of this article misstated the   distance the Pipe would be located from the shore. The length of   the Pipe (600 meters) has also been added.  ’