’  ’ ”   It’s the question of the week: If you’re buying a new iPhone 7,   do you choose the new   or   color? ” ”   Jet black, the shiny new premium finish for the 128 GB or 256 GB   iPhone 7, appears to be Apple’s choice as its new flagship color.   It really is striking to look at. It’s so reflective that you can   literally see your reflection in it.  ” ”   The new matte black color marks the return of a darker anodized   aluminum variation of the iPhone. It’s also an attractive option. ” ’   So, which one should you get? ’ ”   I’ve been lucky enough to test both, and I have the only correct   answer. Matte black is the best color for the iPhone 7. ” ”   Let’s start with why not to get Jet Black. First of   all, it’s a fingerprint magnet. The   iPhone may   look nice and shiny when you take it out of the box, but it   becomes covered in smudges as soon as you touch it. In fact,   Apple had workers buffing the   iPhones clean during the   demo portion of the iPhone 7 launch event last week. ” ”   Then there are the scratches. I haven’t dropped my     iPhone 7 once, but after just a week of keeping it on a table, in   my pocket, or in my laptop bag, it’s accumulated lots of   scratches. If it’s this bad after a few days, I can only imagine   how many scratches this thing will have over its normal     lifespan. ” ’  ’ ”   Apple already warned customers about this. There’s even a   disclosure on Apple’s website that says the   iPhone   could show scratches easily and recommends buying a case, which   of course defeats the purpose of showing off your shiny new   iPhone 7. ” ”   Apple also says the   iPhone finish doesn’t technically   scratch easier than other iPhone finishes. It’s just the shiny   nature that makes it appear to have more   scratches. Either way, it’s going to be a bother for people who   want to keep their iPhone 7 in pristine condition. ” ”   The   option does scratch, but it’s not as noticeable   as it is on the   finish. You also don’t have to worry   about fingerprint smudges ruining the look. ” ”   And to top it all off,   just looks plain cool, like   Batman’s phone or something out of a futuristic   movie. ” ”     is the best new color option for the iPhone 7. That’s   objectively true.  It not only looks better, but it’ll also   last longer than the   finish. All the attention may have   been on jet black last week, but matte black is the real winner. ”