’  ’ ’   While she was Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton exchanged 18   emails with President Barack Obama from her private email   account. ’ ”   But the State Department declined to release the emails when it   was forced by a VICE News Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)   lawsuit to disclose 30, 000 of Clinton’s communications over the   course of a year. ” ’   ”As the White House has previously stated, Secretary Clinton and   the president did on occasion exchange emails,” State Department   spokesperson John Kirby explained at a press briefing last   January. ’ ’   ”As they have also said previously, such presidential records   shall remain confidential to protect the president’’s ability to   receive unvarnished advice and counsel, but will ultimately be   released in accordance with the Presidential Records Act.” ’ ’ the State   Department turned over an index to VICE News and the conservative   watchdog group Judicial Watch describing the subject matter of   the emails Clinton and Obama discussed via email  —   and it doesn’’t   appear to rise to the level of ”unvarnished advice.” ’ ’   According to the State Department, they were   notes,   words of encouragement, a ”note of appreciation,” a holiday   message, a ”personal pleasantry,” and so on. A government summary   of the emails’’ content is below. ’ ’   All of the emails were exchanged between May 18, 2012 and January   31, 2013. Obama sent eight emails to Clinton. One of the   exchanges listed in the index was an email that was forwarded to   Clinton’’s aide Monica Hanley ”of notes of congratulation and   appreciation referenced in documents.” ’ ’   All of the emails were withheld under presidential privilege and   privacy act and deliberative process exemptions to the FOIA. ’ ”   The new details about Clinton’s communications with Obama were   formally made in a   Vaughn Index, a document prepared in   FOIA lawsuits in which government agencies justify the   withholding of information under a FOIA exemption. ” ’   Last month, the State Department turned over to VICE News a   separate Vaughn Index related to the 22   emails Clinton   exchanged with three aides through her private server. However,   the State Department said the contents of the communications were   so highly classified it could not even reveal the date the emails   were sent and received, or the subject matter. ’ ’   The FBI spent a year investigating Clinton’’s email practices. As   VICE News  the FBI’’s probe stemmed from a   ”Section 811” referral from the Intelligence Community’’s   Inspector General (ICIG). The ICIG determined that classified,   national security information in Clinton’’s emails may have been   ”compromised” and shared with ”a foreign power or an agent of a   foreign power.” ’ ’   After the FBI wrapped up its investigation last July, the bureau   recommended to the Department of Justice that neither Clinton nor   any of her aides should face charges. ’ ’   In an extraordinary news conference, FBI director James Comey   said that while the FBI ”did not find clear evidence that   Secretary Clinton or her colleagues intended to violate laws   governing the handling of the classified information, there is   evidence that they were extremely careless in their handling of   very sensitive, highly classified information.” ’ ’ ’