’  ’ ’   Insulin prices are rising  —   increases that mean some people are   spending as much on monthly   expenses as . ’ ’   But what makes the rise in insulin prices different than many   other old drugs that have drawn scrutiny over prices, is that   there is competition for insulin. ’ ’   In most industries, competition drives down prices. In this case,   the competitors appear to increase prices     —     something that’’s been referred to as ”.” ’ ’   At least three companies  —    ’ ”   Despite this competition, prices have steadily climbed over the   past decade, taking single or   list price increases   in a year. A 10 milliliter vial of Sanofi’s   insulin,   Lantus, first hit the US market at $34. 81 a vial in 2001,   according to data from Truven Health Analytics. ” ’   Since 2014, the last time Sanofi raised the price, it has been   $248. 51. ’ ”   During the period in which Lantus’s price rose 600% a rival   product from Novo Nordisk appeared. In 2006, the new drug, called   Levemir, hit the market at $66. 96 (close to what Sanofi’s drug   cost at the time). These days Levemir costs about $269. ” ’   In other words, the competition seems to have done nothing to   push prices down. In fact, when charted side by side, the price   increases seem to be in synch. ’ ’  ’ ”   When you look at   analog insulins (the types of   insulin that are taken around the time diabetics eat, or what’s   used in an insulin pump) the prices are in such lockstep that   you can’t see two lines. ” ”   Lilly’s Humalog cost $20. 82 in 1996 and now goes for $255. 40, an   increase of 1, 124% over 20 years. Novo Nordisks’s Novolog first   hit the market in August 2001 at $39. 75, and as of July 2016, a   vial comes with a list price of $255. 40  —   exactly the same as   Humalog. ” ’  ’ ’   When asked about this timing, a spokesman for Novo Nordisk told   Business Insider via email that this has to do with how the   companies keep tabs on one another. ’ ’   ” ’ ’   Even if it seems odd that prices would rise like this in a   competitive market, it highlights the hold that drug brands have   over doctors who prescribe medicines, and the patients who pay   for them. ’ ”   Bloomberg’s  explored the issue last year and spoke to a   pharmacist and economist who said that it is proof that   b This isn’t unique to   insulin: When there was a viable  something similar happened, as with   . ” ”   As for why the price has gone up so much, regardless of the   similarities? The companies offer a number of explanations  —     including that rebates and other offsets mean that the income to   the company is actually declining, and or that they’re spending   billions to produce and package insulin  —   making improvements in   how the drug is delivered and produced. ”