’  ’ ’   A University of New Hampshire librarian, who spent a lifetime   living frugally, surprised the school by donating his entire   estate  —   worth $4 million. ’ ’   But then  $100, 000 to the library, $2. 5 million to a   career center, and $1 million to a new video scoreboard at the   football stadium, . ’ ”   Robert Morin, who died a little over a year ago, graduated from   UNH in 1963 and worked in the school’s Dimond Library as a   cataloger for nearly 50 years, . ” ’   Morin lived alone, spent little of his income on himself, and   saved instead. ’ ’   ”He would have some Fritos and a Coke for breakfast, a quick   cheese sandwich at the library, and at home would have a frozen   dinner because the only thing he had to work with was a   microwave. He was a very unusual gentleman,” Edward Mullen,   Morin’’s longtime financial adviser, told  the story of Morin’’s   remarkable gift. ’ ’   Morin also had a voracious appetite for reading and watching   videos. A : ’ ”   Many people expressed their outrage at UNH’s decision to use such   a large portion of the donation for the scoreboard, saying it was   out of line with Morin’s passions and commitment to the library: ” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’   The university explained its actions in a  saying that Morin  in the last 15 months he was alive. ’ ’   ”Despite being asked many times over many years by his financial   advisor it was Mr. Morin’’s firm decision to designate only a   small portion of his estate to the library and to leave the rest   unrestricted for the university to use as it saw fit,” . ”Yes, we have heard from people who   disagree with how the gift was used. We respect and acknowledge   that feedback but it does not change our decision.” ’ ”   Morin did technically donate the majority of his $4 million gift   as unrestricted money for UNH. The only earmark he included was   the $100, 000 for the library, and the remaining $400, 000 doesn’t   have an allocation yet. ” ’   ”Unrestricted gifts give the university the ability to use the   funds for our highest priorities and emerging opportunities,”   Deborah Dutton, president of the UNH Foundation, said in the   . ”This is an extraordinary gift that comes at a   critical time for launching a number of initiatives that are only   able to move forward because of his generosity.” ’ ”   But  a $1 million scoreboard was a wasteful   way to spend the librarian’s gift. ” ”   Alumna  vilifying the school’s   decision, identifying UNH’s art and photography departments, and   student publications  —   which have received funding cuts in recent   years  —   as more worthy recipients of Morin’s money. She also drew   attention to the fact that the school just completed a $25   million renovation of the football stadium. ” ’   ”Ultimately, the school’’s administrative decision to spend a   quarter of Morin’’s generous donation on a inconsequential trinket   for the athletic department is a complete disgrace to the spirit   and memory of Robert Morin,” Cortese wrote. ”As a wildcat, I feel   deeply saddened, and honestly completely ashamed of my alma mater   for this.” ’