’  ’ ’     (Reuters)   U. S.  coalition air strikes killed   dozens of Syrian soldiers on Saturday, Russia and a monitoring   group said, putting a U. S.  brokered ceasefire in jeopardy   and prompting an emergency U. N. Security Council meeting. ’ ’   The United States military said the coalition stopped the attacks   against what it had believed to be Islamic State positions in   northeast Syria after Russia informed it that Syrian military   personnel and vehicles may have been hit.  ’ ’   A U. S. military official said he was ”pretty sure” targets   mistakenly hit in the strikes were Syrian forces. ’ ’   Russia called for an emergency meeting of the United Nations   Security Council after the incident, and diplomats said the     body was due to meet behind closed doors at 7:30 p. m.   ET. ’ ’   Moscow cited the strikes, which allowed Islamic State fighters to   briefly overrun a Syrian army position near Deir   airport,   as evidence that the United States was helping the jihadist   militants.  ’ ’’ ’   ”We are reaching a really terrifying conclusion for the whole   world: That the White House is defending Islamic State. Now there   can be no doubts about that,” the RIA Novosti news agency quoted   Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova as saying. ’ ”   She said the strikes threatened to undermine the ceasefire in   Syria brokered by Russia, which has been aiding Syria’s President   Bashar   in the civil war, and the United States, which   has backed some rebel groups. ” ’   The Russian Defence Ministry said U. S. jets had killed more than   60 Syrian soldiers in four air strikes by two   and two     coming from the direction of Iraq.  ’ ’   The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a     monitoring group with contacts across Syria, cited a military   source at Deir   airport as saying at least 80 Syrian   soldiers had been killed. ’ ’   The ceasefire, which took effect on Monday, is the most   significant peacemaking effort in Syria for months, but has been   undermined by repeated accusations of violations on both sides   and by a failure to bring humanitarian aid to besieged   areas.  ’ ”   Apart from the U. S. and Russian involvement, Assad is supported   by Iran and Arab Shi’ite militias, while Sunni rebels seeking to   unseat him are backed by Turkey and Gulf Arab states.  ” ”   All the warring parties are also sworn enemies of Islamic State,   whose territory extends along the Euphrates valley from the Iraqi   border, including around Deir   up to land near Syria’s   frontier with Turkey. ” ”   In its sixth year, the conflict has cost hundreds of thousands of   lives, displaced half of Syria’s   population, prompted a   refugee crisis in the Middle East and Europe and inspired a wave   of jihadist attacks across the world. ” ’   Syria’’s army said the U. S.  strikes, which took place at   around 5 p. m. local time (10. 00 a. m. ET) were ”conclusive   evidence” of U. S. support for Islamic State, calling them   ”dangerous and blatant aggression”.  ’ ’   The U. S. military said in its statement that Syria was a ”complex   situation” but that ”coalition forces would not intentionally   strike a known Syrian military unit”.  ’ ’   Islamic State said via its Amaq news channel it had taken   complete control of Jebel Tharda, where the bombed position was   located, which would have allowed it to overlook     areas of Deir  . ’ ”   The city’s airport and some districts have been entirely   surrounded by Islamic State since last year, with the airport   providing their only external access.  ” ’   However, Russia and Syrian state media said the Syrian army later   recaptured positions it had lost. The Observatory monitoring   group said at least 20 Islamic State fighters were killed in   heavy Russian air strikes during that fighting.  ’ ’   The incident also threatens to undermine proposed joint targeting   by the United States and Russia of Islamic State and some other   jihadist groups across Syria.  ’ ’   Earlier on Saturday, Russia and Syrian rebels cast doubt over the   prospects for the increasingly shaky ceasefire, with Moscow   saying the situation was worsening and a senior insurgent warning   that the truce ”will not hold out”.  ’ ’   While the ceasefire has reduced fighting, some violence has   persisted across Syria. Meanwhile, there has been little movement   on promised aid deliveries to besieged areas and both sides have   accused the other of bad faith.  ’ ”   Russia’s Defence Ministry said conditions in Syria were   deteriorating, adding that it believed the ceasefire had been   breached 199 times by rebels and saying the United States would   be responsible if it were to collapse.  ” ’   After the Deir   attack, it said Moscow had told the United   States to rein in the Syrian opposition and make sure it did not   launch a new offensive, adding that it had informed Washington   about a concentration of rebels north of Hama.  ’ ’   Insurgents say they only reluctantly accepted the initial deal,   which they believe is skewed against them, because it could   relieve the dire humanitarian situation in besieged areas they   control, and blamed Russia for undermining the truce.  ’ ’   ”The truce, as we have warned, and we told the (U. S.) State   Department   will not hold out,” a senior rebel official in   Aleppo said, pointing to the continued presence of a U. N. aid   convoy at the Turkish border awaiting permission to enter.  ’ ”   Rebels have also accused Russia of using the ceasefire to give   the Syrian army and allied Shi’ite militias a chance to regroup   and deploy forces ready for their own offensives.  ” ’   Both sides have accused the other of being responsible for aid   deliveries being stuck far from Aleppo, where army and rebel   forces were supposed to pull back from the Castello Road which   leads into besieged,   eastern districts.  ’ ’   Russia on Friday said the Syrian army had initially withdrawn but   returned to its positions after being fired on by rebels, who in   turn say they saw no sign of government forces ever leaving their   positions.  ’ ’   ”There is no change,” Zakariya Malahifji, an official for a rebel   group in Aleppo, said on Saturday when asked whether there had   been any move by the army to withdraw from positions along the   road.  ’ ”   Syria’s government said it was doing all that was necessary for   the arrival of aid to those in need in all parts of the country,   particularly eastern Aleppo.  ” ’   Two convoys of aid for Aleppo have been waiting at the Turkish   border for days. The U. N. has said both sides in the war are to   blame for the delay of aid to Aleppo, where neither has yet   withdrawn from the Castello Road.  ’ ’   The government said the road was being fired on by rebels, so it   could not give convoys a guarantee of safety. The rebels deny the   accusation. ’ ’   Senior U. N. officials have accused the government of failing to   provide letters to allow convoys to reach other besieged areas in   Syria.  ’ ’   (Additional reporting by Tom Perry in Beirut, Katya Golubkova and   Andrew Osborn in Moscow, Olesya Astakhova in Bishkek, Phil   Stewart in Split, Croatia, Patricia Zengerle in Washington,   Michelle Nichols in New York and Humeyra Pamuk in Istanbul;   Editing by Dominic Evans, Paul Simao and Mary Milliken) ’