’  ’ ”   Most people know the world’s most barbaric terrorist group as   ISIS or the Islamic State. ” ’   Some world leaders have taken to  knowing the terror group hates the   name so much that its militant members have    to ”cut the tongue” out of anyone who used it. ’ ”   But some experts say there’s one moniker the terrorist group   hates even more than Daesh  —   and enemies of ISIS have been using   it to taunt the group. ” ’   Malcolm Nance, a terrorism expert and veteran     officer, made note of the name ”Khawarij”   during a terrorism debate at the Comedy Cellar in New York City   last month. ’ ’   ”They are the   Islamic cult,” Nance explained in an   email to Business Insider. ”[T]he reason they don’’t like it is   because they are considered apostates in the Quran. The Prophet   Mohammed warned about them being false Muslims.” ’ ’’ ’   Some Muslims  —   and even ISIS’’ jihadi rivals  —   refer to ISIS   members as ”Khawarij” or ”Kharijites.” The leader of Al Qaeda,   Ayman   recently referred to the followers of ISIS   leader Abu Bakr   by the name, according to Thomas   Joscelyn, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of   Democracies and an expert on terrorist groups. ’ ’   Joscelyn explained: ”It refers to an early breakaway faction of   Muslims considered extreme for branding other Muslims as   disbelievers because they supposedly weren’’t pure enough in their   faith. Today, Al Qaeda and other jihadists use the term as a   synonym for ’’extremist,’’ or other derogatory adjectives, to   describe members of the Islamic State.” ’ ’   ISIS responds to this by arguing that Al Qaeda and other   jihadists not affiliated with ISIS ”have fallen into a state of   nonbelief,” Joscelyn said. ’ ’   ”The implication is that the Islamic State isn’’t similar to the   Kharijites because the groups leveling this criticism aren’’t true   Muslims, so therefore they deserve to be branded as apostates,”   Joscelyn said in an email. ’ ’   ”That’’s the Islamic State’’s exclusionary argument. It is both a   source of strength for them, as members and new recruits can feel   like they are part of the only righteous Islamic entity on the   planet, and a weakness, as it makes it difficult for the Islamic   State to make tactical compromises with groups that are similar   in terms of ideology.” ’ ’   But this exclusionary argument lends credence to the   branding of ISIS as Khawarij. ’ ”   During ISIS’ earliest days, when it was Al Qaeda in Iraq, the   group gained a reputation for being especially brutal, so much so   that Zawahiri wrote letters to the group’s leadership warning   them to tone down the violence. Al Qaeda in Iraq, a Sunni group,   was known for targeting Shia Muslims in Iraq, something Al Qaeda   Central has shied away from. ” ’   And Baghdadi would even disavow other Sunni militant groups.   Michael Weiss and Hassan Hassan quoted an Al Qaeda in Iraq   commander from Fallujah in their book,  who said that Baghdadi ”was   always very consistent about his position on fellow Sunni   militant groups that were not part of his own organization.” ’ ’   Baghdadi said fighting those groups was more of a priority than   fighting the Americans who invaded Iraq, according to the   commander. ’ ”   Still, ISIS apparently doesn’t like to be compared to   the Kharijites who used similar tactics. ” ”   Analysts point to documents purporting to be from ISIS that argue   why the group shouldn’t be labeled as such. But it’s unclear   whether the central leadership itself has spoken out against the   use of the name. ” ’   ”I’m not sure that being labeled Khawarij is the soft spot or the   vulnerable spot that many make it out to be,” Charlie   Winter, an expert on jihadist propaganda and associate fellow at   the International Centre for Counterterrorism at The Hague,   told Business Insider. ’ ’   He continued: ”I think if anything, they revel in being labeled   anything really. The more that these accusations are made against   them, the more vehement they are in denying them and, in a sense,   the more separated they become from mainstream Islam, the better.   They want to be seen as the group that’’s returning to the very   earliest iteration of Islam.” ’ ’   Winter cautioned against thinking that labels are effective   weapons against ISIS. ’ ’   ”When policymakers or analysts or military men wouldn’’t stop   talking about the Kharijites or takfiris, using these   very controversial religious terms in a context they aren’’t   necessarily comfortable with, that opens up a debate that the   people using those words will struggle a huge amount with,” he   said. ’ ’   ”It happened with [US Secretary of State] John Kerry when he was   calling the Islamic State takfiris. It opens up a part of the   discussion on the Islamic State that   I don’’t think   necessarily should try and get too heavily involved in because   it’’s not necessarily appropriate for these incredibly loaded and   complicated, complex terms to be used potentially incorrectly.” ’