’  ’ ’   For a moment, it looked like August 9 was the day the election   was over. ’ ’   Hillary Clinton was up by nearly 8 points in the   RealClearPolitics polling average.   members of the   Republican Party were criticizing their own nominee. And Donald   Trump, suffering through perhaps the most brutal stretch of his   campaign, added to a spate of   wounds when he    that day suggesting Second   Amendment supporters could take action against a President   Clinton to prevent her from nominating     control Supreme Court justices. ’ ’   Fast forward five weeks. Trump, having completely  and displaying a new approach on   the campaign trail, has caught up. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   And so, seven weeks out of Election Day, . National   polling shows Clinton leads by an average of 1. 5 points in a      race. In a   split with Libertarian Party   nominee Gary Johnson and Green Party nominee Jill Stein included,   her lead is even smaller  —   about 1. 1 points. ’ ”   Trump has also improved his standing in key battleground states.   The biggest shocker came in Michigan, a state he has promised to   put in play but that so far has stuck to its reliably Democratic   swing of late. (Michigan has voted for the Democratic nominee in   every presidential election since 1992.) A  of the state   found Clinton’s lead shrinking from 11 points to just 3  —   within   the poll’s margin of error. ” ”   Michigan wasn’t the only state that swung toward the Republican   nominee: ” ”   Reuters’ projections now see Election Day  showing a 60%   chance of a Clinton win by 18 electoral votes. Nate Silver’s    also gives   Clinton 60% odds as of Saturday. ” ’  ’ ’   It comes after perhaps the most  as   the former secretary of state took fire   for referring to ”half” of Trump’’s supporters as   ”deplorables” and amid continued fallout over her campaign’’s   decision to only reveal she had been battling pneumonia   after a health scare at a   memorial event. ’ ”   It has become apparent that the   cycle is affecting   Clinton’s standing. (It’ll take a bit to reveal whether Trump   again  a subject that   has done him no favors, will have any moving effect on polls.) ” ”   As  her decline appeared to be   leveling off late last week, but continued further into this   week. He said if polls still look like this a week from now,   right ahead of the candidates’ first debate at Hofstra   University, it’ll be time time for Clinton supporters to panic. ” ’  ’