’  ’ ”   An independent    released on September 1 detailing the   sexual abuse that   went on at St. George’s School, an elite boarding school in Rhode   Island, shed light on the policies that fostered an environment   where faculty and staff took repeated advantage of   students. ” ’   The report,  found that six   employees abused at least 51 students, and that students sexually   bullied or hazed 10 others. ’ ’   Among its findings, the report determined t ’ ’    ’ ’   While the nearly   report paints a disturbing picture of   the it also   investigates how a scandal of this scope could have happened in   the first place. ’ ’   ”. ..[T]he most relevant question is whether school leaders took   the steps necessary to prevent, to the extent possible, teachers   or staff from molesting students, or to prevent older students   from sexually assaulting younger students,” the report   reads.  ’ ’   Despite its overall inaction, the school took some steps to   address the abuse, according to the report. It fired three   employees: Howard White, the associate chaplain; Al Gibbs, the   athletic trainer; and Franklin Coleman, the choirmaster and music   teacher. A fourth employee and English teacher, William Lydgate,   was ”likely fired” for the same reason, according to the report. ’ ”   St. George’s, however, continued to support Gibbs and Coleman   after their departures. St. George’s found that Gibbs was abusing   girls, taking naked photographs of them, and  among male students, and a ” ’the school continued to award him a   $1, 200 annual grant for ”distinguished service,” a grant he   received until his death in 1996.  ’ ’   The school’’s Dean of Faculty also continued to recommend Coleman   for other teaching positions. Coleman joined St. Georges’’ during   the   academic year and worked there until May 1988. He   ”sexually abused at least one student in each year of his tenure   at the school,” according to the report.  ’ ’   ”But we believe there is no credible justification for the   actions the school took to help Coleman and Gibbs after   the school fired them,” the report reads. ’ ’   The revelation of such widespread abuse at the school prompted   investigators to question why officials ignored the reports and   why these issues were not brought to light earlier.   The tendency of administrations to look the other way   is not unheard of though. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”What we’’ve seen historically is that whenever there’’s a closed   system, whether it’’s the military, or in this case, a school,   there’’s a strong hierarchy and a sense of secrecy and authority,”   Poore said. ”The need for the organization to protect its own   reputation can trump the   of the victim.”  ’ ’  ’ ”   Soon after the report’s release, St. George Headmaster Eric   Peterson  that would not renew his contract, set to expire in   June 2017, and essentially step down from his role. ” ”   Despite the school’s previous mistakes, the investigation itself   was thoroughly handled, according to Anne Scott,  repeatedly as a   sophomore by Gibbs in the 1970s was the key to bringing   about the investigation. ” ’   ”It was very well done, in terms of how the investigation was   conducted and the final report itself,” Scott told Business   Insider.  ’ ’   ”I am happy with the steps the school has taken, especially the   fact that they’’re going to remove Mr. Zane’’s name from the girls’’   dormitory, which was very important to the Gibbs survivors,” she   continued. ’ ’   Scott was referring to Anthony Zane, headmaster of the school   during her years at St. George’’s. Saying Zane represented a   ”massive failure” in child protection when he was headmaster,   Scott cited his seemingly lenient behavior toward Gibbs, as   well as his alleged dismissiveness toward another victim, Katie   Wales. ’ ’   Although Zane was aware of allegations of sexual abuse   against Gibbs, he signed off on a recommendation letter for him   and approved a stipend Gibbs received annually until his death,   according to the report.  ’ ’   ”When Katie Wales went to Zane, she was not believed and not   treated well at all,” Scott said. ’ ’   Zane ” ’ ’  ’ ”   Since the report’s release, St. George’s also noted it’s taken   action to improve the school’s culture. A representative for   St. George’s pointed Business Insider to a letter sent to the St.   George’s community on September 1 by Leslie Heaney, Chair of the   Board of Trustees. Heaney highlighted several steps the school   would implement in light of the report’s findings.  ” ’   First, she announced that St. George’’s would retain ”David   Wolowitz, an attorney who specializes in this area, to review the   school’s reporting procedures and policies and to conduct   additional boundary training of faculty and staff.” ’ ’   The letter points out that a training session occurred in   June.  ’ ’   St. George’’s would also conduct more extensive and ongoing   background checks of employees and volunteer staff and   create a ”Community Response Team” to handle allegations of   sexual abuse in partnership with the Boston Area Rape Crisis   Center. ’ ’  ’ ’   While Scott expressed relief the school has address the issue,   she said ”there is always more to be done, and that   applies to how schools make it a habit to be ever vigilant   . ... This isn’’t something that just happened decades ago; it   happens today. And schools, including St. George’’s, need to be   vigilant in keeping children safe.” ’ ’   When asked about steps that can be taken on a larger scale, Scott   stressed the need for legislative reform in addressing sexual   violence. ’ ’   ”We need mechanisms to regulate private schools, we need to   reform reporting laws, and we need to put forward a legislative   and regulatory reform agenda,” she said, underscoring the   flaws in current Rhode Island law, particularly on the civil   side.” ’