’  ’ ’   In many ways, zebra appear very like horses (or ponies, given   their size). ’ ’   Yet underlying differences in behaviour have meant that while   horses and donkeys have been successfully domesticated, the zebra   remains predominantly wild. ’ ’   So how did the zebra avoid the load bearing, farm working, fence   jumping fate of its cousins? And which animal ended up with the   better deal? ’ ’   Because of their obvious similarity to horses  —   and for novelty   value  —   attempts have been made by humans to ride and race zebra.   The 2005 movie,  was the story of a young zebra who   wanted to compete in horse races  —   although the filmmakers were   forced to use a horse   for some scenes (the tail gives it   away). ’ ’   The manes and tails of zebra are in fact more similar to those of   asses (donkeys) and reflect the . Although   horses, assess and zebra all evolved from a common ancestor   () which lived in Europe and North   America around 55m years ago, divergence meant that the zebra and   donkey are more closely related to each other than either is to   the horse. ’ ’   The North American equids (members of the horse family)  about 000 years ago, and in   Europe and Asia, Palaeolithic man extensively hunted the herds of   wild horses on the open plains. A combination of climatic change,   forestation and human predation pushed the animals eastwards to   the   of central Asia. ’ ’   The wild ancestor of today’s domestic horses (Equus ferus)    an area where the . Recent research also shows the . ’ ’   Horses were initially kept as a food animal, but their full   potential as a means of transport, communication and warfare   resulted in them being of increasing importance in the . In   Mongolia,  the legendary     warlord  that extended from Hungary to Korea, and from Siberia   to Tibet: an Asian empire won on horseback. ’ ’  ’ ’   So, if horses were so important to human civilisation, why not   the zebra?  so it seems   strange that they missed exploiting such a potentially useful   animal living on the same continent. ’ ’   Unlike the Equids of Eurasia, however, the zebra population of   Africa was relatively secure and particularly well adapted to its   environment. All equids are herbivorous prey species with a   . But   to survive in an environment where there is an abundance of large   predators including lions, cheetahs and hyenas, the zebra evolved   into a particularly alert, responsive animal that flees in the   face of danger but also possesses a powerful response if   captured. ’ ’   The  can break a lion’s jaw. They can   be  and possess a  that helps them avoid being   caught by lasso. Familiarity with human hunter gatherers may also   have fostered a strong avoidance response in the zebra. ’ ’   All of this means that zebra are not really “people friendly” and   as a species they do not fit the criteria for domestication.   According to the English explorer and polymath Francis Galton (a   relative of Charles Darwin)  include displaying a desire   for comfort, being easy to tend, being useful and showing a   fondness for man. ’ ’   Galton uses the zebra as an example of an unmanageable species,   stating that the Dutch Boers repeatedly tried to break zebra to   harness. Although they had some success, the wild, mulish nature   of the animals would frequently break out and thwart their   efforts. ’ ’   Although it appears  individual zebra, this   species was not a good candidate for domestication. In addition   to the intractable nature of the zebra and its strong survival   instinct, the fact that this species is “lion fodder” may also   have made them appear less attractive “partners” to early humans. ’ ’   Domestication and selective breeding will  both the physical and   behavioural characteristics of the horse, which during the early   stages would probably have been smaller, wilder and more similar   to the zebra than today’s horse. ’ ’   And while horses may work harder, live in more urbanised   environments and do the bidding of their owners, they also lead   safer, more comfortable lives. Domestication saved the horse from   extinction. In fact, as a survival strategy, domestication has   certainly worked for the global horse population, which numbers   60m. ’ ’   By contrast, zebra numbers are probably now fewer than 800, 000,   with humans posing the greatest threat to their survival. Faced   with these facts, which would you rather be? ’ ’  Reader in Equitation Science,  ’ ’   This article was originally published on .   Read the . ’