’  ’ ”   Joe Seales was a    dad between jobs. Then he started   watching Donald Trump’s speeches. ” ’   Seales is the CEO of Right Side Broadcasting Network, a website   known best for its YouTube channel, which has hosted feeds   of almost every single Trump rally, town hall, or public   appearance since July 2015. ’ ”   With broadcasting experience working with   figures   like Glenn Beck, the RSBN CEO and business partner Adam Taxin, a   former reporter, decided they could easily broadcast Trump   events, which were getting    coverage on cable   networks, but were difficult to find online. They flew to Phoenix   on July 11 for Trump’s rally, turned on the livestream,   and immediately found an audience. ” ’   ”We covered that speech and did that live, we got a million views   on that speech within the first few months,” Seales told Business   Insider during an interview in September. ”That’s when I knew:   ’’Let’s run with this. ’’” ’ ’   Right Side Broadcasting Network has emerged as a tool for many   Trump fans, journalists, and campaign operatives. ’ ’The Trump campaign is blatant about its support   for the network, tweeting out links, while even Clinton campaign   staffers admit privately that they watch the feeds of speeches on   RSBN out of convenience. ’ ”   The formula for the organization’s success is simple. The   cable networks often carried Trump’s speeches, which eschewed   policy detail and rote stump speech regurgitation for      zingers and audience participation. But Seales   recognized that while the networks chopped up the speeches and   posted bits on social media for news   value, ” ’  ’ ”   RSBN has over 186, 000 subscribers on YouTube. MSNBC, by   comparison, has 173, 000 subscribers. RSBN’s most popular   video  —   a clip of Secret Service agents surrounding Trump when a   fan tried to charge the stage  —   has over 2. 3 million views, while   several videos of entire Trump events have over a million views. ” ’   Though Seales said he initially funded the operation out of   pocket, he told Business Insider that RSBN is now completely     with an average of ”roughly” $  donation.   The RSBN website specifically touts the channel’’s status as a     operation. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   RSBN doesn’t have the cash to afford a satellite truck, and   instead negotiates with venues and advanced staff in order to get   a hardwire internet connection to broadcast its streams. Its blog   is primarily populated with links to Trump   and   posts directly from   site Breitbart News. ” ’  ’ ’   Still, Seales has big plans for the operation. ’ ’   Over the next several months, RSBN wants to roll out additional   shows on their YouTube channel with the eventual goal of moving   toward a  ’ ’   Earlier last summer, Seales signed deals with conservative media   personalities Wayne Dupree and Pastor Mark Burns, who   independently reached out to the RSBN chief about simulcasting   shows on the network. Dupree approached RSBN in June about   starting a show. After several shows, Burns reached out to the   channel interested in launching his own show. ’ ’   Burns was a natural fit for the channel. A pastor with a   tiny worship center in South Carolina, Burns gained notoriety for   his televangelism, and was  by former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski   last fall, garnering a spot introducing Trump at his   rallies. His   were so popular that RSBN began   posting clips of just the Burns intros. ’ ’  ’ ’   But growing from a skeleton crew broadcasting speeches to a   legitimate media organization has also presented obvious   challenges. ’ ’   It’’s unclear that the simulcasts with RSBN’’s personalities, for   one, are particularly popular outside of a core group of RSBN   viewers. Dupree’’s shows generally garner far less views than   livestreams from rallies or even any of the      reporting that RSBN dubs ”.” ’ ’   And earlier this month, Burns was forced to apologize for   exaggerating his credentials  revealed that the pastor had lied   about being a part of a fraternity and serving in the US Army   Reserves. ’ ”   RSBN defended Burns on its website, saying that the   pastor’s fabrications were mistakes like those anyone else would   make. ” ’   ”Pastor Burns, we still love you, bro,” Seales . ’ ”   Burns did not respond to Business Insider’s repeated request for   comment for this article. ” ”   The   nature of the feed also attracts some of the     magnate’s uglier followers. RSBN streams often fill   up with comments on the sidebar, which often   includes racially, religiously, and sexually charged   language. Seales said he recognizes criticism of   the RSBN comments feed, and told Business Insider he pays   staffers to comb back through comments, and block users posting   offensive material. ” ’   With less than two months until the election, Seales is starting   to play for a future he did not envision a year ago. ’ ’   ”Our goal is to be relevant after the election when there   are no more Trump speeches,” Seales said. ’ ’   Still, Seals acknowledged that ” The network plans to open an office in DC if   Trump is elected, and will attempt to get White House Press Corps   credentials. ’ ’   A Clinton win could present more challenges. ’ ’    ”I ’