’  ’ ’   A changing of the guard is taking place at Goldman Sachs. ’ ”   The securities division, which houses the bank’s equities and   fixed income, currencies, and commodities units, has seen at   least 18   departures from key roles in the US and   Europe in 2016. ” ’   They include the heads of trading for equities, US     products and mortgages, and coheads of sales for fixed income,   currencies, and commodities. ’ ’   (You can see a full list of   departures at the   bottom of this page.) ’ ”   These exits represent just a small fraction of Goldman’s partner   pool, which stands at more than 450, and the three coheads of   securities  Pablo Salame, Isabelle Ealet   and Ashok Varadhan  remain in   place. But the   departures speak to numerous   concurrent challenges for the firm, current and former executives   say. ” ’   The securities division, which generated about half of Goldman’’s     revenues, is in a difficult environment, and it has   been assigned a new ”mission” to do more business with existing   clients. ’ ”   Of course, some familiar workplace issues  —   like questions of   performance, office politics, and shifts in influence  —   are also   at play here. And it’s not coincidental that moves to bring   through the next generation of leaders at Goldman Sachs are   taking place ahead of a biennial decision about who becomes a   partner. ” ’   Goldman Sachs first announced a   in the securities   division back in February,  as head of strategy.   His role, according to the memo announcing his appointment, is to   help the bank work ”more deeply and expansively with an even   larger set of clients.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Our mission is to adjust our practices and aspirations in a way   that takes into account structural developments and our strong   market position,” the memo said. ’ ’   The ”structural developments” are most pronounced in fixed   income, currencies, and commodities, or FICC, a business that is   in the doldrums. . ’ ”   That business remains key to Goldman’s profitability, however,   generating about a quarter of the bank’s   revenue. ” ’   The bank has responded by launching a plan to ”deepen”   relationships and sell more products to existing clients. It has   been a recurring theme in Goldman Sachs’’ internal memos and   . ’ ’   Now, banks embark on these kinds of   initiatives all   the time. They always want to do as much business with their best   clients as possible. ’ ”   But it seems that Goldman’s push is a little bit more strategic.   It also seems to have led to a fundamental revamp in the FICC   sales team. ” ”   The two coheads of FICC sales at the start of the year, Dalinc   Ariburnu and Tom Cornacchia, are gone. Cornacchia’s departure was   especially noteworthy, as  and is said to be close to Goldman Sachs No. 2 Gary   Cohn. Several partners in sales in London and New York who were   considered close to Ariburnu and Cornacchia have also left. ” ”   Esposito now coheads sales in addition to his strategy role, with   John Willian, the former global head of prime services, taking   the spot as cohead. The appointment of Willian is telling,   Goldman insiders say, as it again points to the bank’s plan to   have deeper relationships with clients. ” ’   Since 2007, Willian has headed the prime brokerage, clearing, and   futures business, a unit that focuses not on making millions   through   trades but on picking up thousands on the   plumbing behind them. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Our ability to deliver effectively the range of our services to   clients across fixed income, currencies, and commodities will   only become more important and valuable to our clients,” Goldman   Sachs said in an internal memo announcing Willian’’s appointment. ’ ’   The rationale here is clear: Do more business with existing   clients to boost revenue. ’ ’   That is going to be key as the bank faces tough market   conditions. Goldman Sachs, like every other bank, has been   suffering . ’ ’   The bank had a  with fixed income, currencies, and   commodities revenue down by almost half versus a year earlier,   and equities revenue down close to a quarter. ’ ’   The second quarter, while an improvement, . The bank said in its     earnings that FICC ”continued to operate in a   challenging environment.” In equities, . ’ ”   Goldman Sachs’ FICC revenue in the first half of the year was   down 24% from the first six months of 2015, with total markets   revenues down 18%. ” ’   ”In the capital markets, I’’ve never known a time when it hasn’’t   been hard,” one former Goldman partner said. ”It is the same for   everybody. It takes a toll. People who have options, they’’ve   exercised them.” ’ ’   The challenging revenue environment makes it that much harder for   Goldman Sachs to hit a 12%    target, a key measure   of financial performance that is embedded in the     incentive plan for  ’ ’   Goldman Sachs had a return on equity of 7. 5% for the first half   of 2016. ’ ’   One way to hit that 12% target is by boosting revenue through   efforts like its   mantra. The other is by cutting   costs. Total operating expenses in the first half came in at   $10. 2 billion, down 27%. The bulk of that reduction came via a   $2. 3 billion drop in compensation and benefits. ’ ’   The bank has been  with the cuts going deeper than is typical,   and partners have not been spared. ’ ’   In fact, the upper echelons of the bank have been shrinking in   recent years, with the . The number of analysts,   associates, and vice presidents increased by 17% in the same   time. ’ ’   The shrinking partnership pool makes it that much harder to   attain the lofty rank. Goldman Sachs will, later this year,   announce a list of new partners. ’ ’   That’’s a process that takes place every two years, and the   ”retirement” of many   executives in a partner year isn’’t   coincidental. ’ ’   Older partners are often encouraged to move on to make space for   newcomers. Many of those who have departed this year have been at   the firm for over 15 years and have had a run of six to 10 years   as partner. ’ ’   ”This always happens in a partner year,” one Goldman employee   told Business Insider. ’ ’   Given the smaller pool, the bank puts a  with . ’ ’ Departures in fixed income, currencies, and   commodities: ’ ’ Departures in equities: ’ ’   Hires ’