’  ’ ’   Connecticut State Police troopers unwittingly captured themselves   on video appearing to make up charges against a protester,   according to lawsuit reported by  on Tuesday. ’ ’   The lawsuit, filed by the American Civil Liberties Union of   Connecticut, claims three Connecticut state troopers accidentally   filmed themselves discussing what infractions a protester   committed after confiscating his camera. ’ ’   “You want me to punch a number on this either way?” State trooper   John Barone is heard saying in the video. “Gotta cover   our ass. ” ’ ”   The ACLU lawsuit alleges Connecticut State Police violated   Michael Picard’s First and Fourth Amendment rights. ” ”   The video was filmed on Picard’s camera on September 11, 2015.   That night, Picard was filming the state troopers on a road where   a DUI checkpoint was set up. Picard routinely protested such   checkpoints, filmed police at these stops, and posted the videos   on YouTube. ” ’   Barone approached Picard after receiving a call about a man with   a gun, the lawsuit claims. Picard was wearing a holster with a   pistol that he had a permit to carry. ’ ’   In the video Barone argued with Picard over his right to film the   troopers and later confiscated the camera and his pistol, the   lawsuit claimed. ’ ’   The troopers then deliberated on what citations Picard would   receive over the incident while the camera was still recording. ’ ’   “So, we can hit him with reckless use of the highway by a   pedestrian and creating a public disturbance, and whatever he   said,” Sgt. John Jacobi says in the video, according to The Post. ’ ’   Master Sgt. Patrick Torneo can also be heard in the video saying   they could claim witnesses did not want to provide statements to   corroborate the incident. ’ ’   The troopers ended up charging Picard with reckless use of the   highway by a pedestrian and for creating a public disturbance. ’ ’   “The evidence clearly shows that these police officers violated   Mr. Picard’s rights,” said attorney Joseph Sastre, who is   representing Picard against the criminal charges and in the ACLU   civil lawsuit. ’ ’   Connecticut State Police have refused to comment on the incident. ’ ’   “Community members like me have a right to film government   officials doing their jobs in public, and we should be able to   protest without fearing political retribution from law   enforcement,” Picard said in a statement. ’ ’   “As an advocate for free speech, I’m deeply disappointed that   these police officers ignored my rights, particularly because two   of the troopers involved were supervisors who should be setting   an example for others. By seeking to hold these three police   officers accountable, I hope that I can prevent the same thing   from happening to someone else. ” ’ ’ ’