’  ’ ’   If you wonder why Congress has an approval rating of only 18%   you clearly did not watch today’s Senate Banking Committee   hearing on  .  ’ ’   For nearly 3 hours, members of the Senate Banking Committee took   turns feigning shock and anger in response to Wells Fargo CEO   John Stumpf’s testimony regarding the ongoing fraud scandal at   the nation’s third largest bank. ’ ’   Don’t get me wrong, Stumpf rightly deserves to be hauled before   Congress and explain the bank’s actions.  Last week, Wells   Fargo announced that it had agreed to pay penalties totaling $185   million to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Office   of the Comptroller of the Currency and to Los Angeles City and   County officials as a result of the fraudulent scheme.    Since at least 2011, bank employees have opened approximately 1. 5   million bank accounts and 565, 000 credit card accounts without   customer authorization.  The reason?  In order to meet   sales targets and earn hefty bonuses. ’ ’   Fraud in the banking sector?  I’m shocked.  Who could   have imagined that the same people who brought you the 2008   financial crisis would consider deceiving customers in an effort   to increase their own compensation?  Apparently, the members   of the Senate Banking Committee have trouble wrapping their heads   around that one.  Each of them took turns this morning   reading prepared   for their     campaigns.  Some of my favorites: ’ ’   The award for best   at the hearing, however, clearly   goes to Senator Elizabeth Warren ( ).  The people’s   champion of “Banks Are Bad” took the opportunity to strengthen   her case for a potential cabinet position in a Clinton White   House.  In a bizarre exchange during which Warren asked   questions of Stumpf and then read prepared remarks to his   responses, Warren berated Stumpf and stated “evidently your   definition of ‘accountable’ is to push the blame to your     employees who don’t have money for a fancy PR firm to   defend themselves.  It’s gutless leadership. ” ’ ’  ’ ’   Don’t get me wrong, from what we know to date about what happened   at Wells Fargo, the bank epitomizes moral bankruptcy.  From   the board of directors all the way down to the     employees who actually perpetrated the fraud, there was a massive   breakdown in compliance and ethics.  The bank’s ability to   regain its reputation will be based solely upon its handling of   this matter going forward.  A thorough and transparent   investigation needs to take place and individuals need to be held   accountable. ’ ’   But Wells Fargo is not alone.  Failures in corporate   governance are a major issue in the United States  —   not just in   the banking sector, but across almost all sectors.  The U. S   Government, and most notably Congress, have failed to put in   place the measures needed to strengthen corporate governance and   protect the average investor and employee.  After Enron,   there was  .  After the 2008 financial crisis,   there was  .  Yet, corporate governance failures,   such as that which has occurred at Wells Fargo, persist. ’ ’   Here’s the truth:  there is no law or regulation which is   going to completely eradicate corporate scandals.    Corporations are managed and overseen by people  —   a certain   percentage of which, under certain circumstances, will always   take the  .  Nevertheless, there are actions which   can be taken to discourage such behavior and limit the impact   when it occurs.  At a minimum, there has to be stronger laws   and regulations designed to: (1) hold individuals accountable;   (2) foster the adoption of robust corporate compliance programs;   and (3) encourage and protect whistleblowers. ’ ’   Senator Warren did acknowledge at the hearing that “we need tough   new laws to hold corporate executives personally   accountable”.  So where are they?  Granted the passage   of such legislation won’t provide members of Congress with the   same great   opportunities as a fully choreographed   Senate hearing, but it may go a long way to protecting the   American people. ’ ’   Gutless leadership, indeed. ’ ’ Mark Rogers is the founder and CEO of . ’