’  ’ ’   Donald Trump topped Hillary Clinton in    released on Wednesday, carrying a lead over his Democratic   opponent in Nevada, North Carolina, and Ohio. ’ ’   The polls were conducted in the three states, which are widely   considered to crucial to a Trump victory, from Sunday until   Tuesday evening. ’ ’   In Nevada, Trump held a   lead over Clinton among likely   voters in a   race that included Libertarian candidate   Gary Johnson. ’ ’   The Republican presidential candidate captured 43% of support in   the Silver State, compared to Clinton’s 40% and Johnson’s 8%. The   remaining 4% of Nevada voters were undecided. ’ ’   In North Carolina, Trump was up by 5 points, leading Clinton   by 45% to 40%. Johnson walked away with 6% of support in the Tar   Heel State. ’ ’’ ’   And in Ohio, Trump also found favorable results. The     tycoon had a   lead over Clinton, earning 42% of   support compared to her 37% in a   poll that included   Johnson and Green Party candidate Jill Stein. ’ ’   Each of the three Fox News polls had a margin of error of 3. 5   percentage points. ’ ’   Those surveys came the same day other polling firms released   results from New Hampshire and Wisconsin that found less   favorable results for the   magnate. ’ ’   In the Granite State, Clinton edged out Trump 47% to 38% among   registered voters, according to a Monmouth University poll. It   had a margin of error of 4. 9 percentage points. ’ ’   Clinton had less of a lead, however, in Wisconsin, a state that   has voted Democratic in every presidential election since 1984.   Marquette Law School’s Wednesday poll found she was only beating   Trump by 43% to 38% among surveyed registered voters. That poll   had a margin of error of 4. 8 percentage points. ’ ’   Nationwide, Clinton held a significant lead over Trump    having a   advantage over him in a     race. ’ ’   The polls come with only days to go until the first presidential   debate. Clinton and Trump are set to square off on Monday at   Hofstra University in New York. ’