’  ’ ’   Back in 2000, astronomers discovered their first space blob   billions of   away from Earth. ’ ”   It was glowing as brightly as a galaxy, and was as big as one,   yet it didn’t seem to be made of stars  —   only loose hydrogen gas. ” ’   Scientists kept finding more space blobs, eventually  but   no one could clearly explain why they shined so brightly. ’ ”   However, astronomers now think they’ve finally cracked the case   of these big cosmic mysteries, according a release issued by the   . ” ’   The blobs are technically called   blobs (LABs) and   they shine brilliantly in ultraviolet, a ”color” of light that is   invisible to human eyes yet advanced telescopes can detect. ’ ’   The first and   blob, called   is about 400, 000     across. And it’’s actually a relatively ”young” object   in our 13. 8    universe  —   it’’s so distant at 11. 5   billion   away that observing it is like traveling back   in time, to when the universe was about 2. 3 billion years old   (thanks to the finite ). ’ ”   By combining the views of many different telescopes, plus some   advanced computer simulations, dozens of astronomers in a new    report the source of the blobs’   shiny glow: A chaos of star formation that’s happening   100 times faster than in our own galaxy, the Milky Way. ” ’  ’ ’   First, the team used the Hubble Space Telescope, the W. M. Keck   Observatory in Hawaii, the Very Large Telescope in Chile, and the   Atacama Large   Array (ALMA) also in   Chile, to observe  . ’ ’   Those images not only revealed the flurry of fresh stars deep   inside the hydrogen cloud, but also small, nearby galaxies   pouring   materials into the mix. ’ ’   A computer simulation used that telescope data to reveal why     was so shiny. As new stars embedded inside the blob are   born, they burst out intense ultraviolet light  —   which then   scatters off the hydrogen gas and illuminates it into a glow. ’ ’   ”Think of a streetlight on a foggy night  —   you see the diffuse   glow because light is scattering off the tiny water droplets,”    the study’’s   leader and an astronomer at the University of Hertfordshire, said   in the release. ”A similar thing is happening here, except the   streetlight is an intensely   galaxy and the fog is a   huge cloud of intergalactic gas. The galaxies are illuminating   their surroundings.” ’ ’   And by solving that mystery, Geach and others were able to close   the case on another: where and how the most massive galaxies in   the universe are born. ’ ’   ”    is the site of formation of a massive   elliptical galaxy that will one day be the heart of a giant   cluster,” Geach said in the release. ”We are seeing a snapshot of   the assembly of that galaxy 11. 5 billion years ago.” ’