’’ ’In 2013’’s ”Iron Man 3,” Tony Stark’’s digital butler sidekick JARVIS uses the Oracle Cloud to . It was a weird bit of product placement. ’ ’In 2016, though, when Facebook CEO  to power his smart home, he decided to start from scratch and write it himself. ’ ”This, in a nutshell, is the problem with  with an alternative that’s both faster and cheaper than the $10 billion Amazon Web Services juggernaut. ” ’It’’s likely that the   ”next generation” Oracle Cloud will capture a lot of existing Oracle customers as they move to the cloud computing model, where you can rent functionally unlimited supercomputing power for pennies per hour. ’ ’But the next generation of young, talented programmers  —   the Mark Zuckerbergs of the world  —   have very little incentive to jump on board the Oracle bandwagon, and every reason to keep on with Amazon Web Services, where they can do things their own way.’ ”In a  analyst Ben Thompson lays it out plainly: The Oracle Cloud’s major advantage, as Ellison himself says, is at the high end of the power spectrum. If you’re running   computing applications, Oracle Cloud does indeed seem to be faster and cheaper.” ”That’s not the market Amazon is going for, though. The thing that’s set Amazon Web Services apart isn’t its performance or its price; it’s the fact that it’s a platform on which to grow. You can start small, with one or two servers, add capacity as you grow, and then instantly tag in new services like databases or video hosting or even artificial intelligence, you can just tag it in as you go.” ’’ ’Writes Thompson:’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’Oracle will do just fine. For its biggest customers, the Oracle Cloud is a no brainer. Specific applications for stuff like sales and marketing can move up to the Oracle Cloud and save them some money, while the   cloud infrastructure capacity in question is perfect for hosting large databases. ’ ”Oracles moves will also put pressure on its   rivals at Microsoft, who often compete for the same large enterprise companies. If Oracle’s making it easier for its existing customers to move up to the Oracle Cloud, it’s that much harder for Microsoft to poach them to its own Microsoft Azure.” ’’ ”And with the  there’s little doubt that it works as advertised. The technology, as presented, is impressive.” ”But almost any company starting today  —   the next Facebook or Dropbox (which started on Amazon and took years to move to its own data centers) or Snapchat (which runs on Google’s cloud) or whatever  —   has few reasons to pick Oracle. Larry Ellison is correct that in many ways, Oracle’s technology is way ahead of Amazon’s, but that gap is narrowing faster than he thinks. And the company just isn’t   to competing on Amazon’s turf.” ”There’s always a chance. Oracle has lots of cash in the bank, they’re investing heavily in research and development, and the money that comes in from older customers upgrading is going to be a major windfall. If Oracle can successfully invest in a true reinvention of itself, maybe it can hang. For now, it’s going to be slow going.”