’  ’ ”   This year’s presidential electoral map is shaping up to be   unusual in a few ways, but I’ve been fascinated what looks to me   like a migration gap. ” ’   Donald Trump is underperforming the typical Republican   candidate in states that are magnets for migration  —   places   like North Carolina, Colorado, Georgia, and Texas. ’ ”   He’s doing unusually well in states where net migration   is low or even negative, such as Iowa, Maine, and Michigan. ” ”   Partly, this is about negative economic circumstances: States   where people don’t want to move to tend to be places where the   economy has not been good. ” ”   And partly it’s about demographics:   states tend to   be whiter, and the ones where Trump is doing especially well tend   to have a lot of   whites who have historically voted   Democratic but are unusually drawn to him. ” ’’ ’   But could it also be partly because Clinton is more   appealing to the sort of person who would want to move   somewhere new, while Trump appeals more to people who would   prefer to stay somewhere familiar? ’ ’   This election, much more than most, is a referendum on openness   and optimism: Are we scared of the changes happening in our   country? Do we believe our best days ahead of us? ’ ’   Moving is a sign that you believe your own actions can improve   your personal circumstances; that America offers opportunities so   long as one is willing to seize them. It also signals openness to   change: If you moved across the country, you might not   be so scared of ”.” ’ ’   Look, for example, at the difference between Maine and New   Hampshire. In 2012, Barack Obama won Maine by 15 points and New   Hampshire by just 5 points. In this election, the two states   look much more similar: FiveThirtyEight is currently projecting a     Clinton win in Maine and a   win in New Hampshire. ’ ’   Why the difference? There is the demographic answer:   Both states are extremely white, but New Hampshire is much   more educated and wealthier, so it has more of the sort of voters   with whom Clinton has made inroads. Maine has lots of     whites for Trump to pick up. ’ ”   But there is also an answer about migration: As of 2012, 66% of   Maine residents were born in Maine, while just 42% of New   Hampshire’s residents had been born in New Hampshire. One is   a state of movers; the other is not. ” ”   One interesting fact in Nate Cohn’s  is the huge gap in the presidential   candidates’ performance among white voters who were born in North   Carolina vs. white voters who moved there. ” ’   Clinton leads by 10 points among whites with a college   degree who moved to North Carolina. Trump leads by 20 among   those born in the state. Among whites without a college   degree, Trump leads by 42 points among voters not born in the   state, and by 56 points among natives to the state. ’ ”   Of course, that’s partly because a lot of the transplants come   from states where white voters tend to be more Democratic than   North Carolina  —   they move to the south and bring more   liberal viewpoints with them. But it’s also consistent with   a gap in openness and optimism between transplants and    . ” ’   This seems to me like another effect that should be going on our   list of potential drivers of the realignment being seen in this   election. ’