’  ’ ’   Donald Trump is often criticized for his divisive rhetoric, but   geopolitical expert and Eurasia Group President Ian Bremmer   thinks it could threaten the very foundation of US politics and   values. ’ ’   ”I believe @realDonaldTrump is a threat to US political   institutions & values,” Bremmer .   ”I’’ve never felt that way about a presidential nominee.” ’ ’   Bremmer, a   analyst whose firm focuses on   geopolitical risk, expanded on that thought in an email to   Business Insider. He said he viewed Trump’’s ”authoritarianism” as   the true danger in his potential administration. ’ ’   ”Trump’’s authoritarianism is the danger. It’’s the way he deals   with enemies in business, politics and the media,” Bremmer said.   ”The way he uses fear to gin up support among the dispossessed   and downtrodden. The way he idolizes international ’’strongmen’’   while telling our allies that they’’re transactions on a balance   sheet, nothing more, nothing less.” ’ ’   Trump has been criticized for speaking favorably of Russian   President Vladimir Putin and saying that US allies need to   pay more for their own defense. ’ ’’ ’   ”There’’s a reason his admirers are Hungary’’s [Prime Minister   Viktor] Orban, France’’s [  politician Marine] Le Pen,   Russia’’s Putin, even Kim Jong Un,” Bremmer said. ”These are not   people who want to make America Great Again.” ’ ’   Bremmer said the US has always been a ”force for good” in the   world and that Trump could endanger that quality. ’ ’   ”America desperately needs a president who will lead by example,”   Bremmer said. ”Trump would lead by revulsion.” ’ ’   Trump represents ”a rejection of America’’s core values of   inclusion, integration and hope” and ”an effort to divide   society at home . .. and societies abroad.” ’ ”   Bremmer said that while he doesn’t support Trump’s rival,   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, he thinks Trump   would be more damaging to the country. ” ’   ”To be clear, I’’m no Clinton supporter,” Bremmer said. ”I’’m not   registered with a political party. But I’’ve never seen a nominee    —   from either party  —   who I thought represented such a danger to   everything the United States stands for. I consider it an   obligation to make my voice heard accordingly.” ’