’  ’ ’   A professor who has accurately predicted the outcome of every   presidential election since 1984  that 2016 was the hardest election   to predict yet. ’ ’   But he has come to a decision on who is most likely to win  —     Republican nominee Donald Trump. ’ ’   Professor Allan Lichtman, who wrote the book  uses a series of   statements to determine   his predictions. He considers things like incumbency, the   economy, social unrest, scandals, and charisma to figure out   which way the election is likely to go. ’ ’   Lichtman explained to the Post how the system works: ”The keys   are 13   questions, where an answer of ’’true’’ always   favors the reelection of the party holding the White House, in   this case the Democrats. And the keys are phrased to reflect the   basic theory that elections are primarily judgments on the   performance of the party holding the White House. And if six or   more of the 13 keys are false  —   that is, they go against the   party in power  —   they lose. If fewer than six are false, the   party in power gets four more years.” ’ ”   Still, Trump is such an unusual candidate that he might break the   American political mold that’s held for decades. ” ’’ ’   ”We’’ve never before seen a candidate who’’s spent his life   enriching himself at the expense of others,” Lichtman said. ”He’’s   the first candidate in our history to be a serial fabricator,   making up things as he goes along.” ’ ’   He noted that Trump has also taken other questionable steps, like     to meddle in the US election, and    if they came too close   to US vessels. ’ ’   ”Given all of these exceptions that Donald Trump represents, he   may well shatter patterns of history that have held for more than   150 years, lose this election even if the historical   circumstances favor it,” Lichtman said. ’ ’   It looks like a narrow victory for Trump, Lichtman said, and the   key is Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson, who is polling in     now. But that might shift by Election Day. ’ ’   ”As people realize the choice is not Gary Johnson, the only   choice is between Trump and Clinton, those Gary Johnson   supporters may move away from Johnson and toward Clinton,   particularly those millennials,” Lichtman said. ’ ’   Trump has been  but last month, his Democratic   challenger Hillary Clinton was far ahead. ’ ’   Other,   measures of predicting the election put   Clinton out in front. An  released last   month from the University of Virginia Center for Politics   projected Clinton winning the election by a landslide. ’