’  ’ ”   A gun recovered at the scene of the fatal shooting of a black man   by police in  North Carolina, was loaded   and had fingerprints matching those of the victim, CNN reported   on Friday as the man’s family released its own video of the   encounter. ” ’   The family of shooting victim Keith Scott, whose death has   sparked three days of protests, continued to urge officials to   release their own recordings of the slaying. ’ ’   The moment when a black police officer shoots Scott, a      father of seven, cannot be seen in the     video recorded by his wife, Rakeyia, who can be heard urging   officers not to fire. ’ ’   ”Don’’t shoot him! He has no weapon,” she can be heard telling   officers as they yell at Scott, ”Drop the gun!” ’ ’   Several gunshots can be heard in the video, which was released to   U. S. media, followed by her screaming, ”Did you shoot him? He   better not be dead.” ’ ’   The video was filmed from a nearby curb as the drama in the   parking lot unfolded in front of Rakeyia Scott. ’ ”   CNN cited a source close to the investigation as saying the gun   had fingerprints, DNA and blood matching Scott’s. The     Police Department did not   immediately respond to a request for comment. ” ”   Scott’s death was the latest in a succession of police killings   of black people, mostly men, which have unleashed protests and   riots across the country and intense criticism of the use of   excessive force by police. ” ’   A United Nations working group on Friday compared the killings to   the lynching of black people by white mobs in the 19th and 20th   centuries. ’ ’  ’ ”   Scott’s death sparked two days of rioting in    North Carolina’s largest city, with   protesters dismissing police officers’ claim that Scott holding a   gun. ” ’  Police Chief Kerr Putney has   said that video taken by police body cameras supported the police   version of events, but he has refused to release the video   publicly. He told reporters on Friday that releasing it now could   harm the investigation into the shooting, being led by the state. ’ ’   ”I know the expectation is that video footage can be the panacea   and I can tell you that is not the case,” Putney said, adding   that he would eventually agree with the release of the video.   ”It’’s a matter of when and a matter of sequence.” ’ ’   Scott’’s family initially contended that he was carrying a book,   but after viewing the police video on Thursday the family said it   was ”impossible to discern” what, if anything, Scott was   carrying. ’ ’   ”There’’s nothing in that video that shows him acting   aggressively, threatening or maybe dangerous,” Justin Bamberg,   one of the lawyers representing the family, said in an interview   early on Friday. ’ ”   No gun can be seen in Mrs. Scott’s video. ” ’  ’ ’   Governor Pat McCrory, a Republican locked in a tight     race, signed a law last week that would require authorities to   obtain a court order before releasing police video. Critics have   said it would prevent the sort of transparency that is needed to   defuse public anger after police shootings. ’ ’   Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton added her voice   to calls for release of the video. ’ ’   ” should release police video of the Keith   Lamont Scott shooting without delay. We must ensure justice and   work to bridge divides,” she said on Twitter on Friday. ’ ’   She announced plans to go to  on Sunday. ’ ’   The UN working group recommended that the United States create a   reliable national system to track killings and use of excessive   force by law enforcement officials, as well as ending the   practice of racial profiling. ’ ’   On Friday,  police arrested a civilian and   charged him with murdering a protester who died on Thursday after   being shot the previous night during protests, Putney told a news   conference. ’ ”   Police identified the suspected shooter as Rayquan Borum, 21, and   the victim as Justin Carr. They did not disclose Carr’s age. The    Observer reported that he was 26. ” ’  ’ ”   The killing of Keith Scott and its aftermath are playing out in a   state that has been at the forefront of some of the country’s   most bitter political fights in recent years. ” ”   North Carolina’s   state legislature has   tightened voting laws, slashed education spending and passed a   law prohibiting transgender people from using the bathroom of   their choice. ” ”   Civil rights leaders have said that state officials who pursue   these policies are partly to blame for this week’s unrest. ” ’   ”It’’s somewhat hypocritical to cry out against violence when you   pass violent policies,” said the Rev. William Barber, who heads   the North Carolina unit of the National Association for the   Advancement of Colored People. ’ ”   (Additional reporting by Tom Miles in Geneva, Brendan O’Brien in   Milwaukee, and Laila Kearney in New York; Writing by Scott Malone   and Peter Henderson; Editing by Leslie Adler, Toni Reinhold) ”