’  ’ ’   Target has removed hundreds of   shopping carts from its   stores after some shoppers declared them a ”nightmare.” ’ ”   The company rolled out the mini carts to 72 stores in August,   hoping that they would entertain Target’s youngest guests  —   and,   in turn, please its core demographic of shoppers: parents. ” ’   But the shopping carts turned out to be a spectacular failure for   many parents. ’ ’   Kids went wild with the carts, dumping shelves of merchandise   into them and slamming them into other shoppers at top speed,   bruising their ankles,  ’ ’ ’ ’  is Kiddie Cart ready     ’ ’ and   said they turned her previously ”magical” shopping experience at   Target into ”madness.” ’ ’   She called her post, which has been viewed more than 230, 000   times, ”MASTC” for ”Mothers Against Stupid Tiny Carts.” ’ ’   The carts were rolled out at 50 stores in Minnesota and 22 stores   in New York. Many other shoppers complained about them as well,   according to the  . ’ ’   ”They make shopping trips into torture!” shopper Lizzy Charles   wrote on  ”Especially with three kids, all wanting their own   tiny cart, triple the headache. Or fighting over one! I abandoned   purchasing anything and focused on survival.” ’ ’ ’ ’   Not all shoppers hated the carts, however. Many said they made   shopping with kids easier. ’ ’   One parent wrote on Facebook that the carts were ”great for   keeping the kids busy and motivated to help out.” Another said   his child burst into tears when they visited Target this week and   noticed that the carts had been removed. ’ ’   But the critics were greater in number, so Target decided to   remove them from stores after a few short weeks of availability,   the company said. ’ ’   ”At Target, our guests are at the center of everything we do, and   we value their feedback,” Target spokeswoman Kristy Welker told   Business Insider. ”We briefly tested kiddie carts at 72 Target   stores, and after reviewing guest and stores feedback, we have   made the decision to stop the test.” ’