’   Top members of the Never Trump movement expressed deep   disappointment on Friday after Texas Sen. Ted Cruz  for Donald Trump. ’ ’   ”After many months of careful consideration, of prayer and   searching my own conscience, I have decided that on Election Day,   I will vote for the Republican nominee, Donald Trump,” Cruz wrote   in . ’ ”   Here’s how Never Trump conservatives reacted. ” ’   ”Profoundly sad day for me,” wrote Beck, one of the top   conservative radio talk show hosts in the country.   ”Disappointment does not begin to describe.” ’ ’   ”Maybe it is time to go to the mountains for a while,” Beck   added, later revealing that he had spoken on the phone with Cruz   for 40 minutes earlier in the day. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tYes, it does become almost impossible to claim ”  Ted” is a caricature after this. ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tCruz’’s former comms guy,  to me just now: ”It’’s mourning in America for conservatives. We lost our leader today. ”’t’t’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tTed Cruz was with Trump when he could’ve beaten him & against him when he couldn’t. Then he   with max damage, & caved for 0 gain’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t1) Politically I believe it’s a disastrous decision for reasons that are too numerous to mention on Twitter. So I will in upcoming  piece’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t2) Personally, I’m disappointed. Disappointed that a lot of people are going to be disappointed. ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t3) That being said, while I vehemently disagree morally and politically, I will view this in the context of Ted’s full record. ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t4) Ted is still one of the best senators we have. And I hope he’s happy there, because odds he’ll be president severely diminished. ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t5) I’ll still root for Ted though I disagree. He didn’t completely abandon me when I did something dumb last fall. I’ll return the grace. ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t6) But again, I think it’s the worst political miscalculation of my lifetime. I hope I am wrong. The people will decide that. ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t7) I’m just sorry to see so many people letdown again. That’s the toughest part of this for me. I grow weary of seeing people disappointed. ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t8) I’m used to being letdown. It’s a state of being in this line of work. But the people deserve better. I wish I could give it to them. ’t’t” ’ ’ ” ’t’t’t( 2) Hillary is wholly unacceptable. True, but that doesn’t mean a vote for Trump. ( )’t’t”