’  ’ ’   Twitter, which was once a darling of the tech industry and went   public almost three years ago in an   IPO, . ’ ”   We’ve seen this story with an internet company before. ” ’   In fact, the parallels between Twitter and Yahoo are rather   striking: ’ ’   A rotating cast of CEOs and executives with little   direction; A powerful platform once seen as the future of the   internet struggling with an identity crisis; Questionable   strategies for growth. ’ ”   If it doesn’t sell soon, Twitter risks setting itself up for   Yahoo’s same fate: a   stagnation in which no   progress is made, and company focus and morale are slowly   drained by   takeover talks. The story ends   with a desperate sale for a tiny fraction of its peak   valuation. ” ”   Right now, Twitter seems to think it can fetch as much as   $30 billion in a sale, about double its market cap as of Friday,   . Yahoo,    agreed to sell to Verizon for $4. 8 billion this year. That was   8 years after Microsoft offered to buy Yahoo for $42   billion  —   an offer that Yahoo’s leadership stubbornly   rebuffed.  ” ”   If CEO Jack Dorsey and the Twitter board pull a Yahoo from 2008,   they’re setting themselves up for a . ” ”   Twitter would also be taking a gamble if it doesn’t sell and   tries to make it on its own. As  one option the company is   considering other than a sale is a restructuring that could   include layoffs. But we’ve seen Twitter go through that before,   and it hasn’t helped solve its user growth problems. As the   saying goes  —   and as Yahoo proved through many rounds of layoffs   and endless restructurings  —   you can’t cut your way to   growth. ” ’  ’ ”   Despite its many problems, Twitter is still an attractive asset.   It’s an invaluable tool for news gatherers, celebrities, world   leaders, activists and marketers. It has a treasure trove of   untapped data, which probably looks pretty tasty to companies   like Google and Salesforce. Twitter was the platform that a   reality TV    tycoon used to promote himself all   the way to the GOP nomination for the presidency. No one can deny   the power and influence Twitter wields, even with   its relatively small base of active users.  ” ”   But Twitter’s company culture has always prided itself on being   fiercely independent. The company turned down an offer from   Facebook in its early days. ” ”   And while cofounder Dorsey doesn’t control a majority of   Twitter’s voting shares (as Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg and   Google’s Larry Page and Sergey Brin do) it’s not clear how   amenable Dorsey might be to selling out  —   or how vigorously he   might try to oppose a deal. ” ”   Depending on who the buyer is, an acquisition might not be at   odds with Twitter’s mission. Unlike Yahoo, which seems   destined to be   for valuable resources and left   unrecognizable once Verizon gains jurisdiction over it, Twitter’s   service could actually flourish under a parent company that   provides additional resources and leeway.  ” ’  ’ ’     ’