’  ’ ’   On Tuesday, November 8, Americans will go to the polls and elect   the next president. ’ ’   Both parties, Republican and Democrat, will make their cases to   voters in the coming weeks. ’ ”   Some of the most daunting tasks facing the next president   come in the realm of foreign policy. America’s relationship   to the rest of the world has changed drastically over the last   decade. ” ’   The next president will have to negotiate with a rising China, a   newly resurgent Russia, a defiant North Korea, and a drawn out   civil war in Syria, among other issues. ’ ’   We looked into where Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump   stand on some of the most pressing   questions   facing the US today. They have some stark differences. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The nuclear pact between the US and Iran offers Iran about $100   billion in relief from international sanctions in exchange for   halting its nuclear program for the next 10 years. ’ ’   The pact represents a  as he prepares to leave office. But it   has been viciously . ’ ’Hillary Clinton. As secretary of   state, Clinton  on Iran   that in part lead to the deal. Clinton holds that the Iran   deal offered a diplomatic solution to an issue that could have   become a war. ’ ’   Clinton talked about the Iran deal in  earlier this year: ’ ’Donald Trump has promised to  of his   presidency and said that it’’s ”one of the worst deals I’’ve ever   seen negotiated” in ”[my] entire life.”  ’ ’   Trump discussed of the Iran deal in his speech at the   Republican National Convention : ’ ’  ’ ’   After the invasion of Iraq in 2003 that deposed Saddam   Hussein, the US has maintained a constant presence in the country   as it struggles to establish new, credible leadership. ’ ”   Meanwhile, Syria descended into chaos after its   president, Bashar Assad, violently suppressed     demonstrators in 2011. In both nations, the Islamic State has   risen as a powerful and brutal military force in direct   opposition to the West. In 2014, the US intervened in the   conflict by offering funding, training, and airstrikes   to support moderate opposition to Assad’s regime.  ” ’   In the same year, ISIS, an offshoot of Al Qaeda in Iraq, filled   the power vacuum in the desert along the borders of the two   adjacent, troubled nations. By almost all measures, ISIS has   lost ground militarily since its peak. But it has continued   to carry out or inspire attacks overseas. ’ ’Hillary Clinton has  to take   out ISIS in Iraq and Syria in concert with our allies and the   global community, paraphrased below: ’ ”     1. Take out ISIS’ Syrian and Iraqi capitals of Raqqa and Mosul,     respectively, with increased airstrikes and support for local     Arab and Kurdish forces, while pursuing a diplomatic strategy     aimed at Syria and Iraq’s leadership.   ” ”     2. Disrupt ISIS’ supply lines of money, weapons, fighters, and     their ability to distribute propaganda. This extends beyond     Iraq and Syria into Afghanistan, Libya, and other ISIS     strongholds. And it includes combating their cyber and       presence, as well as rebutting their     interpretation of Islam.   ” ’     3. Harden US domestic defenses to a point where they deter     attacks and discover plots before bad actors can execute.    ’ ”Donald Trump has repeatedly referenced a   plan to destroy ISIS. But he has refused to reveal the details,   at different times saying he didn’t want his  and that .   Most recently, Trump said he would get  before   deciding on a plan.  ” ’   ”They will have 30 days to submit to the Oval Office a plan for   soundly and quickly defeating ISIS. We have no choice. Any nation   who shares in this goal will be our friend in this mission,”   Trump . ’ ’   Trump  ”than   the generals do,” and that US military’’s generals have been   ”reduced to rubble” under Obama’’s presidency. ’ ’   There have been multiple    attacks on US soil   in in the last year. Mass shootings last year, according to one   definition of the term, happened . ’ ’   In at least one case  —   the shooting in Orlando that left   nearly 50 people dead  —   the shooters have expressed support   for overseas terror groups. ’ ”Hillary Clinton says ISIS’ shrinking power and   influence in Iraq and Syria has made the group desperate.   Therefore, she says, it lashes out internationally and at   the West. In the aftermath of the    Clinton  to   combat terrorism: ” ’     ”First, we face an adversary that is constantly adapting and     operating across multiple theaters, so our response must be     just as nimble and  .   ’ ’     ”Second, to defeat this transnational threat, we need to     reinforce the alliances that have been core pillars of American     power for decades.”   ’ ’     ”And third, we need to rely on what actually works  —   not     bluster that alienates our partners and doesn’t make us any     safer.”    ’ ’Donald Trump has proposed a  ”until we figure out what the hell is going   on,” suggesting that Muslim immigrants to the US may be   allied with ISIS or other   forces. He has since   suggested a system of ”extreme vetting” in immigration. ’ ’   He has also repeatedly criticized Clinton and Obama for refusing   to use the words ”radical Islamic terror.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Founded in 1949 by democratic nations in Europe and North   America to defend against the spread of communism, the North   Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is the most powerful military   alliance the world has ever known.  ’ ”   Though the Soviet Union has collapsed, Russia, under President   Vladimir Putin’s rule, has risen again to become a world power   and a military threat. ” ’   Putin runs Russia with near total autonomy and violated   international law with the 2014 annexation of the Crimean   Peninsula from Ukraine. Putin has been accused of   to   fracture unity within the European Union, and  on the US. ’ ”   Despite NATO’s size and strength, the migrant crisis, anxieties   about terrorism, and strained economies present real weaknesses   that experts say Putin has deftly exploited. Militarily,  to the US.  ” ”   Furthermore, Russia supports Syria’s Bashar Assad, while the US   supports opposition forces. In Syria, Eastern Europe, and even   the Pacific, Russia promotes causes contrary to the interests of   the US and the democratic West.  ” ’Hillary Clinton presided over Obama’’s ”reset” in   relations with Russia back in 2009 but has since come around to   depicting Putin as a ”bully.” ’ ’   Speaking about Putin at a debate, Clinton said: ’ ”   Since Trump began publicly praising Putin, Clinton’s campaign has   portrayed him as potentially dangerous to US interests. ” ’  ’ ’Donald Trump departs from orthodoxy in US   politics in that he embraces the totalitarian leader Putin.   Donald Trump has criticized the NATO alliance as ”” and welcomed praise from Putin. ’ ’   When pressed to distance himself from Putin at  earlier   in September, Trump suggested that Putin is a better leader than   Obama. ’ ’   ”He is very much of a leader. The man has very strong control   over his country . .. You can say, ’’oh, isn’t that a terrible   thing,’’ I mean, the man has very strong control over his   country,” Trump said. ”Now it’’s a very different system, and   I don’’t happen to like the system, but certainly in that system   he’’s been a leader, far more than our president has been a   leader.” ’ ”   In the past, he has  to undermine   the US election by releasing Clinton’s deleted emails from her   time as secretary of state, though his campaign . ” ’   Experts look at the hacking and leaking of information from   the Democratic National Committee, for which they point the   finger at Russia, as a sign that Putin welcomes a Trump   presidency. ’ ’  ’ ”   Israel is one of the US’s most reliable allies, and one of   the biggest clients for foreign military sales. ” ’   Israel has been  in  from areas like the   Gaza Strip and the West Bank. Many Middle Eastern states,   most prominently Iran, have come to resent the US for   the alliance.  ’ ’   Peace between Israel and Palestinians remains one of the most   elusive and   solutions on the world stage. ’ ’Hillary Clinton helped broker a     between Israel and Hamas during her tenure as secretary of state,   one of her   achievements. She remains resolutely in   support of Israel and    to the   conflict. ’ ”   Clinton has questioned Trump’s dedication to the cause,   especially him claiming he’d try to remain neutral in talks   between Israel and Palestine.  ” ’   ”America can’’t ever be neutral when it comes to Israel’’s security   and survival,” Clinton told the   Political Action   . ”Anyone who doesn’t   understand that has no business being our president.”  ’ ”Donald Trump has  but claims to remain resolute in supporting   Israel. As he fancies himself a   negotiator and deal   maker, he’s expressed genuine interest in trying to establish   himself as neutral between Palestine and Israel and eventually   striking a deal for peace between them.  ” ’   ”I think it’’s probably the toughest negotiation of all   time,” said . ”But maybe we   can get a deal done.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Since the end of the Korean War in 1953, North Korea has been a   stronghold of communism and totalitarianism under the Kim   dynasty. Recently, Kim Jong Un has made startling progress in    and advanced,   . ’ ’   Perhaps no regime on earth is as openly antagonistic toward the   US as North Korea. Only China has any modicum of influence over   the Hermit Kingdom. ’ ’Hillary Clinton’’s strategy   of  toward North Korea   makes no large departures from Obama’’s, though she has come out   hard against the country’’s recent nuclear   testing, : ”We will not allow North Korea to   have a deliverable nuclear weapon” to US territory. ’ ’   Clinton has also criticized Donald Trump for saying that . ’ ”DonaldTrump has   repeatedly questioned the wisdom of the US’s alliance with South   Korea, where more than 25, 000 troops are stationed. He has also   suggested that the US should pull away from Japan, musing about   the country developing its own nuclear weapons to defend   itself.  ” ’   Trump hopes his proposed hardline trade stance toward China   would convince the country to intervene in North Korea. ’ ’   ”China has   …     total control over North Korea,” Trump told   ”. ”And China   should solve that problem. And if they don’’t solve the problem,   we should make trade very difficult for China.” ’