’  ’ ”   Donald Trump threatened on Saturday to put Gennifer Flowers, a   woman Bill Clinton said he had an affair with, in the front row   of Monday’s debate as a direct result of Hillary Clinton’s   campaign giving Mark Cuban a   seat at the titanic event. ” ’   ”If dopey Mark Cuban of failed Benefactor fame wants to sit in   the front row, perhaps I will put Gennifer Flowers right   alongside of him,” . ’ ’   The Benefactor was a 2004   show starring Cuban, who is   more widely known as the owner of the NBA’’s Dallas Mavericks and   star of ABC’’s ”Shark Tank.” ’ ”   Trump misspelled Flowers’ name in a prior tweet, later deleting   it and replacing the tweet with the correct spelling. ” ’   Cuban fired back shortly after. ’ ’’ ’   ”Donald. Remember when you told me on the phone we were ”Bobbsie   Twins” and I laughed ? #truestory,” he quipped to Twitter. ’ ’   Cuban, a Clinton supporter since he endorsed the Democratic   nominee at a Pittsburgh rally in July, has ripped Trump   repeatedly on social media and in interviews, calling him the   most ”dangerous” presidential candidate he can imagine during a   recent interview with Business Insider. Cuban recently offered   Trump $10 million to hold a   policy debate with him. ’ ’   After the Clinton campaign gifted Cuban with what they referred   to as the best seat they had available for Monday’’s debate, Cuban   said he was ready for the former secretary of state to   ”overwhelm” her opponent at the looming political slugfest. ’ ”   Trump recently addressed Cuban’s criticism in an interview with   Fox Business host Maria Bartiromo, insisting that Cuban tweets   constantly at him and promising to show the host all of the   messages. ” ”   The NBA owner is known for his courtside antics at Mavericks   games, famously ripping referees for what he believes to be bad   calls. That reputation led to CNN host Michael Smerconish asking   Commission on Presidential Debates cochair Frank Fahrenkopf   during a   interview about Cuban’s     presence. ” ’   ”We’’ll tell you this right now, whether or not a Republican or   Democrat or anyone else attempts by use of the tickets in placing   people in a front row or not to try to impact the debate  —   it’’s   wrong,” the debate cochair said. ”We would frown upon Mr. Cuban   being in the front row if his purpose is to somehow disrupt the   debates, likewise, if Mr. Trump were to put someone in the front   row to try to impact things.” ’ ’   ”So I’ve been working,” he continued. ”We’ve been working with   the campaigns staff. I don’’t think that’’s going to be a problem.   They’’re approaching this as a very dignified manner in the way I   think it should be approached.” ’ ’   Alan Dershowitz, professor emeritus at Harvard Law School, told   CNN he thought the Clinton campaign’’s decision to have Cuban in   the front row was ”a mistake.” ’ ’   ”Because first of all, it reaffirms the notion that Hillary   Clinton is subordinate to millionaires and billionaires,” he   said. ”Second, if they wanted to surprise Donald Trump, we   wouldn’’t know about it. They would simply seat him in the front   row moments before the debate began.” ’ ’   ”I see no upside and substantial downside,” he said. ”They’’re   being too cute. It will backfire.” ’ ”   Earlier in the cycle, Cuban was more enthralled with the idea of   a Trump presidency and had expressed interest in serving as   either Trump or Clinton’s vice president before eventually   souring on the Republican nominee’s candidacy. ” ’   ”I mean you guys have been covering me for a long time,” Cuban   told Business Insider in that recent interview. ”I mean, I’’ve   historically been apolitical. You’’ve never heard me talk about   politics all that much. And it’’s just, I can’’t think of anybody   more dangerous as president than Donald Trump.” ’ ’   ”I can’’t think of anything worse than with him not having a   clue,” he continued. ”I mean, could you imagine somebody who   doesn’’t read and doesn’’t learn trying to deal with the      changes and challenges of that job?” ’