’  ’ ’   The global economy is baffling economists, particularly those   employed at central banks. Government mints have printed a vast   amount of (electronic) money, and according to the textbooks the   planet right now should look like the Weimar Republic in 1929  —     awash in cash and growing like crazy. ’ ”   But it’s not. Growth and productivity are stagnating worldwide. ” ”   What if it’s all Spotify’s fault? ” ’   Or rather, not Spotify specifically, but tech companies and the   services they provide. Our economy is less and less dependent on   factories churning out physical objects, and more and more   dependent on   virtual goods and services. ’ ’   In the old days, economists could count cars coming out of an   automobile factory. They could count freight containers on ships   in ports, and get an idea of whether trade was growing, and where   exports and imports were headed. ’ ’   But if Spotify, based in Sweden, sells a subscription to someone   in the UK, that ”export” is unlikely to be picked up in the trade   measurement data. Even if it is detected in Sweden’’s tax data, it   won’’t be reported and factored into Swedish GDP or months or   years. ’ ’  ’ ”   And it will be hardly recorded at all in the UK, even though the   consumer who previously spent £30 a month on CDs is now spending   £12. 99 a month and receiving countless more albums. That consumer   is now £17. 01 richer every month than she was before  —   but her   extra wealth isn’t reflected in the macro data that the Bank of   England uses to set interest rates, or the import data that the   government uses to set spending policy. ” ’   HSBC global economist James Pomeroy recently published a   fascinating paper that looks at this question. ”The rise of the   digital natives” argues that the increase in digital services   like Spotify  —   and Apple and Google and Facebook and Amazon and   on and on  —   put downward pressure on prices and inflation. ’ ’   Right now, Pomeroy argues, central banks interpret a lack of   inflation (or deflation) as a sign of impending recession,   something that needs to be tackled with extra cash liquidity. But   what if deflation is not a sign of recession but rather   a product of the relentless efficiency of tech services like   Uber, Airbnb and Spotify? That might explain why, in the UK,   there is high employment and low unemployment, but low inflation   and apparently marginal economic growth. ’ ’   Maybe, Pomeroy suggests, central banks have a ”Spotify problem”:     GDP because they are failing to count sales of   virtual goods like Spotify subscriptions. ’ ’   ”A ’ ’   Pomeroy also suggests  —   controversially  —   that in a world of   falling prices, companies like Uber could make workers richer.   Not in the nominal face value of the money they earn but   proportionally, in how far that money can increasingly stretch,   year on year. (He also suggests the opposite might happen: In a   world of falling prices employers might be keen to cut wages when   they can.) ’ ’ Pomeroy talked to Business Insider recently about the effect   of companies like Spotify on inflation and growth, and whether   central banks are measuring their activity properly. What follows   is a lightly edited transcript of our conversation: ’ ’ Jim Edwards: One thing I have noticed in economics   recently is that all these major indicators  —   inflation, interest   rates, labour productivity, GDP  —   are all trending to zero at the   same time, in numerous countries. They usually move independently   of each other. My question is, when all these trend to zero at   the same time, are they linked? Do they feed off each other? And,   if they do, how do we get out of that? It feels like we’re stuck   in a world of no growth, and we can’t get out. This chart, from   the Resolution Foundation, is what I am talking about: ’ ’  ’ ’James Pomeroy: We’ve got a measurement issue.   You have to think about, in this world, are we measuring things   correctly? Because your traditional data on productivity is   perhaps less applicable when a lot of your output or consumption   data is virtual. It’s harder to track trade data when a lot of it   is services or virtual products like a Spotify subscription. I   mean, how do you pick that up in Swedish export data? ’ ’ JE: Are those things  —   Spotify subscriptions  —   literally   not picked up in trade data? ’ ’   JP: Well they’re badly picked up. They’re all estimated, It’s so   much easier to think about a Volvo shipped across on a boat. It’s   much easier to track that accurately than services trade,   especially when it continues to have a bigger share. It’s a lot   more complicated data. ’ ’ JE: But Spotify’s revenues show up in tax data. And that will help Sweden’s GDP, so it will show up   there. ’ ’   JP: It would, but you can’t necessarily capture it in the exports   numbers. It wouldn’t necessarily get taken timely and correctly.   It’s much more difficult to account for it, and then you’ve got   lots of other problems, not just on the services trade side, but   also on the productivity side. Think about output per hour, it’s   much easier to account for it when you have a factory that’s   producing things. ’ ’   When you’ve got a very   economy where a lot of the   things you are producing are virtual, like, if we write a   research report how do you put that into traditional productivity   functions? All of these sorts of things are sea changes in the   way we monitor our traditional economic data and it makes things   pretty hard. ’ ’ JE: With technology, and   and desktop   design, you can probably produce 10 times the number of research   papers today than you would’ve been able to 30 years ago,   right? It’s much easier to produce charts and   data than it used to be. So I can see why it would be difficult   to capture the sheer volume of work that you’re creating. But   can’t HSBC look at the total revenue generated, look at the   headcount, calculate sales per head, and see instantly that   you’re doing 10 times in productivity what we used to do 30 years   ago, before computers did these things? ’ ’   JP: You might be able to. From a company’s perspective you could.   But from a national accounting, economic data perspective it   becomes much harder, because you’re not dealing with physical   items where you can say: “this has been produced, this has been   sold for this, this has  …    ”  —   just in terms of ease of measurement.   We get economic data at a month lag, it has to be very easily   picked up and counted. In the service trading example, high   quality service trade data is often a year out of date just   because it takes so much longer to get it done properly. There is   clearly a sort of like hidden element there. It doesn’t explain   why they’re all trending to zero but it explains why they might   be slightly misconstrued. There is something else going on in   that data. It might not be necessarily as terrible as growth and   productivity being weak maybe, or inflation being zero for the   same reasons. Because there’s a sort of measurement issue in   there because of the greater use of technology. ’ ’  ’ ’ JE: Are we actually measuring GDP correctly? ’ ’   JP: Well that’s the other thing to take away. As well as   accounting for inflation differently, are we basically   mismeasuring the actual amount of output? Are we mismeasuring   productivity because of this quality element? Are we actually   mismeasuring what is actually growth? I think Spotify is a good   example. For my music consumption now I just need one Spotify   subscription as opposed to buying a CD every time. It catches up   very quickly. ’ ’ JE: Surely though, inflation is fairly well   measured? ’ ’   JP: Prices aren’t going up because of competition. It’s much   easier for you to find out the price of a book in an alternative   retailer today than it was 10 years ago, then it’s harder for   prices to go up and that should be a good thing for the consumer,   right? ’ ’   If you have the ability to stand in Waterstones and look at the   same book on Amazon and, even if it’s a pound cheaper, Amazon   will deliver it to your house the very next day, that ability for   you to do that means it’s harder for prices to go up. Now if you   get lower inflation it’s probably a good thing for the consumer.   What you’re doing is you’re taking the producer surplus and   you’re putting it in the hands of the consumer. You might not   necessarily see it in a lot of hard data if those things that the   consumer is consuming are streaming services. If you have   Spotify, rather than buying three CDs, that would show badly in   the data. Again, Spotify is a really interesting example in this   sort of world where I can consume the same music today . .. I can   consume five times as much music on a Spotify subscription than I   would by buying 10 CDs. On the national accounts data I’ve only   spent a fifth, but I’m way better off. These technologies are   changing the way we have to interpret the data. ’ ’ JE: It might be better for consumers because there’s low   or even negative price inflation, but it also depresses wages.   Amazon is using delivery guys who are much cheaper than the guys   who published books sold at Barnes & Noble. Uber is a better   example of that, in terms of delivering something with drivers   who get paid less than taxi drivers. Would you argue to me that,   if prices are falling faster than wages, then it’s ok because   workers are getting proportionately richer? ’ ’   JP: Well that’s one outcome. That’s one outcome that real wages   go up that way. The other example is interesting because if you   think about what is happening, what the technology of Uber allows   is for the taxi company  —   as in Uber rather than someone running   a taxi company from a phone  —   is the actual ability to distribute   those taxi drivers is much, much cheaper. The marginal cost [for   Uber] of providing another taxi out is basically zero. This means   that actually a greater share of the profit, in theory, from taxi   journeys can go to the drivers and not the company, because it’s   scaling. So actually what could end up happening is the   technology allows Uber to make a lot of money, and allows them to   pay their drivers, but it could also make the consumer better   off. The new company is better off, and the taxi drivers are   better off because they don’t have a taxi company creaming off   excess profits from their journey, and the consumer benefits from   cheaper prices. ’ ’ JE: Is that actually happening with Uber though? ’ ’   JP: Well, obviously Uber claims it does. There’s a lot of   independent research on Uber. The idea that the taxi drivers are   probably about as   per hour once they’ve paid for their   insurance, equipment etc. They’re about as well off but a lot of   drivers enjoy the flexibility, so you’re providing that   flexibility to the labour market, which is quite a good thing as   well. ’ ’ JE: But they’re probably worse off once you account for   the fact that they had to buy the car, fuel it, pay the insurance   and so on. ’ ’   JP: They reckon it’s about the same once they have done that. In   terms of cash per hour they earn more. They obviously don’t have   sick pay or pensions or any of that sort of stuff, so that’s the   downside. But at the same time Uber say a lot of their drivers   are doing   shifts after they’ve been doing something else. ’ ’ JE: I’ve heard of people who have other jobs but they’ve   just got a new car, so they are an Uber driver for six or seven   hours a week to take care of the car payment. ’ ”   JP: Yeah, that’s a good thing for economics, right? It’s good   economics, it’s making full use of our time, it’s productivity   improvement, someone’s providing a service and generating income   in time where they would otherwise be doing nothing. But does   that show up in the data? There’s so many little nuances going   on. The other option is wage growth, which is the more optimistic   case. You could argue that all of these technologies make us all   more productive, and they also allow for the opportunity of new   businesses to come in. To tell you an example, some of my   colleagues here do a lot of work on virtual reality, or AI, and   it’s the same. If these industries take off, you’re creating new   industries which are going to be heavily investing. You’re gonna   have companies which are incumbent industries, which are having   to invest a lot of stay ahead of the game and try to compete, and   this in turn could lead to higher productivity and that in theory   sees through into wage growth. It’s your sort of optimistic case:   technological advancement drives growth and productivity and   enhancement and that makes us all better off. That’s fighting   against your automation and your Ubers of the world. It’s hard to   know quite which way it ends up. ” ’ JE: Shouldn’t we have seen that already though? Since the   tech boom of 1999, many businesses have been created from   nothing, they have created massive ecosystems around them that   are entirely new businesses or economies, particularly in   advertising, etc. But you look at the macro data and you don’t   see massive wage growth springing up over the US and Western   Europe. ’ ’   JP: No you don’t, but my conclusion is that there’s two factors.   The potential for new businesses to put some pressure on   productivity and wages, and then you’ve got the automation side   as well. It’s all cancelled itself out a little but. If you’re a   consumer whose wages are up and prices are staying flat then   you’re likely to be better off. As long as the consumer is better   off in real terms that’s fine, however that comes about, be it   the prices fall more than wages or wages are up or vice versa,   that’d be great. I don’t know which side is going to play out   unfortunately. But either way I would suggest this would be more   beneficial for consumers. ’ ’ JE: But overall it sounds like you’re unimpressed with my   idea that we should be scared of all these indicators declining   to zero. ’ ’   JP: I don’t think so. I think it’s interesting, but I don’t think   that it’s necessary that we should be too scared by them. ’ ’ JE: Is that because Sweden seems to be doing OK? I know   you have this pet thing about Sweden and how it’s the   future. ’ ’   JP: The canary in the coalmine, yeah. ’ ’ Jim: In Sweden they use very little cash  —   transactions   are largely digital  —   there are negative interest rates, it’s a   highly digital economy, much more than the rest of the West, and   the economy is booming but there is no inflation. It’s the best   of all worlds, but . ’ ’   JP: I used Sweden as a case study in this piece and it’s done   alright. You’ve got low inflation, very high tech usage, growth   is doing very well because the consumer is doing very well. You   have fixed wage growth because of the unions and the wage bar   going up, so actually having low inflation you see the impact   really, really strongly. So wage growth holds up at about 2. 5%   regardless of what inflation is doing. ’ ’ JE: Very broadly, how does the union situation work in   Sweden? ’ ’   JP: So basically, every three years there’s a local bargaining on   wage growth. So that sets a sort of: “this is what everyone must   pay on wage growth,” and then companies add to it, so they settle   on  . 5% depending on which industry. They had one at the   beginning of this year that settled on these sorts of levels. So   you’ve got a country with 1% inflation or lower, and you’re   getting 2% wage growth, so real wage growth has been positive for   four or five years, which is obviously great news if you’re a   consumer. ’ ’   Here it’s slightly different. You’re wage growth is fixed but   what you have seen is companies telling us “we can’t raise prices   and we’re starting to feel the pinch a little bit on our profits   because we can’t raise our prices and we’re having to keep paying   this wage growth. Our margins are getting squeezed a bit. But   what you’re basically seeing here is a transition away from the   producer surplus to the consumer, and the consumer is winning at   the expense of the producer. Maybe you argue then that it   inhibits investment because companies are saying, “we can’t make   enough money, we’ll have to invest but we can’t. ” ’ ’ JE: I don’t see a lack of investment in Sweden. The   economy is raging over there. ’ ’   JP: It hasn’t inhibited growth yet. Because companies are doing   the opposite, and saying: “we need to do things better. We need   to be more productive. ” So they’re actually getting out and   they’re investing and they’re making, producing the same products   better. Productivity choice is very good in Sweden at the moment.   Way stronger than anywhere else in the developed world, because   that’s what it’s forcing companies to do. It’s forcing them to   innovate and produce the same goods cheaper. And so they can   still sell at these 0% markups. ’ ’ JE: Everything you’re telling me about Sweden sounds like   it could be a speech by Jeremy Corbyn. Guaranteed wage growth!   High investment! Robust GDP growth! Low inflation! ’ ’   JP: Ha ha it could be. It’s just built into the culture, so when   you get this tech uptake the feed into the economy might be   slightly different but it’s interesting nonetheless. ’ ’ JE: Do you think the people of Sweden have adopted tech   because these businesses are forced into finding these new   efficiencies, or is there just something else going on in   Sweden? ’ ’   JP: There’s a general sort of push, government incentives going   all the way back over a fair few years, in regards to sort of   teaching kids in school. I’ve got a chart which shows the age at   which people first use the internet and various countries. Just   going to bring it up. So in Sweden, for example, Sweden, Finland,   Estonia, Denmark and Norway; 75% of kids have used a computer   before they’re 10. ’ ’ JE: Do you have data for the UK? ’ ’   JP: I don’t have data for the UK. Japan is 45% Germany is about   42%. Australia and New Zealand and pretty good, but it’s the   Scandis are all well clear of other countries on the age at which   kids are picking up their computers. There’s widespread use at a   young age, tech adoption rate is very high. Internet usage in   Sweden was 85% in 2005. ’ ’ JE: Is there anything going wrong in Sweden? Are there   any downsides to this? ’ ’   JP: Err, growth started to slow a bit. The economy’s doing well   on service exports. You have a lot of innovation in Stockholm   with tech companies starting up and selling stuff all over the   world and they had a real boom last year and they’ve started to   slow down, so that’s leading to a slowdown in growth. You’ve also   got extremely high levels of debt, which is really the central   bank’s fault with very low interest rates. The point I’ve made in   this piece is if inflation is low for supply side reasons i. e.   greater price information as a result of greater tech usage, then   is cutting interest rates the right answer to low inflation? And   in Sweden’s case, I would say it hasn’t been the right answer.   And that’s really a way of seeing some of the risks to the   economy. ’ ’ JE: I took my eye off the ball in Sweden for a while. Do   they still have a bubble in housing situation? ’ ’   JP: They did, they did. The prices fell a little in April and   May. They changed the legislation in regards to paying mortgages,   and you saw house prices fall for two months, but then they   picked up again in the last few months. ’ ’ JE: Was that the reform where they were required to pay   down the principal on their equity? ’ ’   JP: Yes, they have to pay 2% a year down to 50%. It basically   spooked the market for a little bit. House prices fell and   everyone started panicking, but we had the data this morning and   house prices were up 2% from the last month, in a month. ’ ’ JE: Paying down 2% of your principal balance doesn’t seem   very dramatic. If the price of houses are still going up and up   every year, demand will still be good. ’ ’   JP: It’s still a problem and hasn’t gone away. The house market   is cooling, but it’s still extremely strong, so that is still a   little concern. You’ve still got these financial stability risks,   but on the growth side, things are doing great. ’ ’   Central banks maybe need to start thinking about the causes of   their low inflation rather than the fact that inflation is low.   That’s a sort of wider story when we start talking about who’s   going to ease policy next. If we might ever see a rise in   interest rates. That’s the, the sort of interesting point I think    —   a world where you can’t necessarily monitor data like we used   to. Should we be sticking to the same rules as the ones that have   done so well in the past? ’ ’ JE: You’re sort of making sense in an intuitive way   because in the UK we have record high employment, and record low   unemployment for this month or quarter, but there’s not really   wage inflation and the economy is going into a bit of a Brexit   dip, GDP is anemic. But the fact that there are literally jobs   for anyone who wants them right now suggests that the economy is   doing much better than the data suggests. ’ ’   JP: Generally you would say that in this world with greater tech   use there’s a greater scope for mismeasurement. If you’ve got a   lot of virtual consumption it’s that much harder to get it   correct. Instead it’s much easier if you have things on a factory   line or goods coming into a port you can measure that as it’s   hard things happening. Whereas Spotify subscriptions and Netflix,   digital downloads and the rest of it are a little bit harder to   pick up, and I think that’s where the challenges are for   statisticians and economists over the next few years  —   to work   out ways that we can actually monitor this stuff correctly and   get a really fair idea of what’s going on. Maybe we need to think   about a broader sweep of data and economies rather than just   relying on our old limits of GDP and inflation, and start to look   at an aggregate alongside the employment picture. It may be that   the employment figure is telling you things are quite good or   maybe the GDP data is alright, but who knows. It poses a few   questions like, “should we start talking about some of this data   a little bit differently?” ’