’  ’ ”   In an election season marred by controversy and allegations, it’s   only fitting for the charitable foundations of the two major   party candidates to get tangled in the mess. ” ’   Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton now find their foundations at   the heart of the election discussion with roughly six weeks   to go until Election Day in what can only be described as an   ”unprecedented” situation. ’ ’   On Tuesday, David Fahrenthold of The Washington Post    about the Trump Foundation, reporting that the Republican   presidential nominee used hundreds of thousands of dollars from   the charity to settle matters related to his   businesses.  ’ ” Wall Street   Journal reporter James Grimaldi published a story on Clinton’s   husband, former President Bill Clinton, being paid $260, 000   to give a speech in 2014 for a company that would later work   on a project in Haiti directly alongside the Clinton Foundation. ” ’   ”These [charitable] organizations are ripe for abuse until   someone really digs in and looks,” Nick Mirkay, a professor of   law and associate dean for planning and initiatives at Creighton   University School of Law, told Business Insider, later   adding that the allegations against both foundations, if true,   are a ”fundamental violation of why we allow these organizations   to exist and give them   status.”  ’ ”   Both foundations have been grabbing headlines for similar topics   for much of the summer. With less than 50 days to go until the   election, here’s what you need to know about both the Trump and   Clinton foundations and the controversies surrounding both. ” ’  ’ ”   As a private foundation, Trump’s charity is in unique territory.   It’s run by a family, yet as Fortune reported this week, the   foundation’s contributions have all come from sources outside the   Trump family, . ” ’   The foundation, which has been in existence since the late   1980s, is now mired in both ” ” and ”  ”   scandals.  ’ ”   This week’s Washington Post report, citing tax records,   revealed Trump had not made a single donation to his charity   since 2008 and sometimes used money from others through the   foundation to pay off legal expenses. ” ’   The money relating to those expenses, which reportedly amounted   to $258, 000 from the Trump Foundation, may have violated   ” ” laws that prohibit nonprofit leaders from using   charity money for   or the benefit of their     businesses, according to The Post. ’ ’   Trump, according to the report, also spent roughly $50, 000   of foundation money on a pair of portraits, advertisements for   his hotel chain, and a signed football helmet. ’ ’   ”I represent 700 nonprofits a year, and I’’ve never encountered   anything so brazen,” Jeffrey Tenenbaum, who advises charities at   the Venable law firm in Washington, told The Post, describing the   details as ”really shocking.” ’ ’   He continued: ”If he’’s using other people’’s money  —   run through   his foundation  —   to satisfy his personal obligations, then that’’s   about as blatant an example of   [as] I’’ve seen in a   while.” ’ ’   Allegations of ”pay to play” stem from the Manhattan   billionaire Internal Revenue   Service ’ ’Bondi was considering whether to   pursue fraud allegations against the defunct Trump University.   She did not pursue the investigation. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   ”[  rules] basically explain who is a   disqualified person, people that are connected to the foundation,   and then give a laundry list of transactions that are not allowed   between the foundation and the disqualified person,” Suzanne   Friday, senior legal council and vice president of legal affairs   at the Council on Foundations, told Business Insider. ”So such   transactions would include using foundation assets to fulfill a   personal obligation.” ’ ’   Mirkay said the IRS could even go as far as removing the Trump   Foundation’’s   status if it determines the recent   revelations are indicative of ”a pattern of behaviors.” ’ ’   But he said he doesn’’t know if ”there’’s enough for that to   happen.” ’ ”   The Republican nominee is also facing scrutiny from the state of   New York and Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, according to The   Post, and Mirkay said the state attorney general’s office could   also force Trump to reimburse the money, or it could remove him   from the board of directors. ” ’   The latter would be tricky with the Trump Foundation. Trump is   the president of the charity, but does not sit on the board.   However, his adult children are all board members. ’ ’  ’ ’   Responding to the latest report, the Clinton campaign took the   opportunity to compare the foundation to Trump’’s much maligned   ”university.” ’ ’   ”Clearly the Trump Foundation is as much a charitable   organization as Trump University is an institute of higher   education,” Christina Reynolds, the campaign’’s deputy   communications director, said in a statement. ”Trump’s version of   charity is taking money from others to settle his own legal   issues and buy at least two pictures of himself, which experts   say is a clear violation of laws governing charitable   organizations.” ’ ’   ”Once again, Trump has proven himself a fraud who believes the   rules don’’t apply to him,” she continued. ”It’’s past time for him   to release his tax returns to show whether his tax issues extend   to his own personal finances.” ’ ”   Trump’s campaign responded to the story in a lengthy statement   Tuesday night, taking the opportunity to smear The Post reporter,   Fahrenthold. ” ’   ”In typical Washington Post fashion, they’’ve gotten their facts   wrong,” senior communications adviser Jason Miller said in the   statement. ”The Post’’s reporting is   peppered with inaccuracies and omissions from a biased reporter   who is clearly intent on distracting attention away from the   corrupt Clinton Foundation, a vehicle for the Clintons to peddle   influence at the expense of the American people.” ’ ’   Looking at the broader scope, Mirkay tried to put the latest   round of revelations into context.  ’ ’   ”Although these amounts are not insignificant from a charity   perspective, I get the feeling that they’’re fairly insignificant   from a personal perspective, right?” he said, making note of   Trump’’s claimed ”massive” wealth. ”I would say probably not. But   like most people, that would require me being able to look at his   tax returns.” ’ ’   Clinton has faced allegations of encouraging a ”pay to play”   system, where donors who provided vast sums of money to the   Clinton Foundation were granted special access with Clinton while   she ran the State Department under President Barack Obama. And,   as in The Journal story, payments for both Clinton’’s speeches and   those payments connections to foundation work have sparked   continued questioning. ’ ’   Although the foundation had been under scrutiny from early on in   her primary bout with Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, the   allegations of impropriety against the foundation reached a     after Judicial Watch, a conservative watchdog   organization,  that it said proved Clinton gave donors   special access to the State Department while she was running it. ’ ’   Clinton in July denied such allegations, and her campaign   chairman dismissed them in an August statement. ’ ’   ”The foundation has already laid out the unprecedented steps the   charity will take if Hillary Clinton becomes president,” campaign   chair John Podesta wrote. ’ ’ Donna Shalala, the president of the Clinton Foundation   and the former secretary of health and human services, told CNN   that the foundation does ”magnificent work” and that ”there was a   process set up to make sure their lines were not crossed” while   the former secretary of state was in office. ’ ’   But Shalala explained that ”when she’’s president” the foundation   will have to ”actually eliminate any aspect of conflict of   interest.” ’ ’   Multiple newspaper editorial boards,  have called   for Clinton to cut ties with the foundation, and Trump, along   with his campaign, has seized on the controversy in his attacks   against the former secretary of state, with Miller calling it   proof of the Democratic nominee’’s ”use of government authority   and influence for personal gain.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The foundation, which was created in 1997,  such as economic   development in impoverished areas, fighting climate change,   improving lives for women and girls, and making HIV and AIDS   drugs more accessible to patients around the world. ’ ”   A public charity, which is subject to a different set of rules   than Trump’s private foundation, the Clinton Foundation has   raised close to $2 billion from a wide array of sources that   include corporate leaders, foreign officials, and donors who   cross over into the Clinton’s political activities. ” ”   The assets held by the Clinton Foundation dwarf those under   control of Trump’s charity, and the appearance of conflicts of   interest between the Clinton’s charitable, political, and   personal goals is what opponents have latched onto. ” ’   ”Just because something is a conflict of interest, doesn’’t mean   the foundation can not do it,” Friday said, calling that a   misconception held by many and adding that ”in an ideal situation   people connected to the foundation will abstain from any decision   that involves a conflict of interest.” ’ ’   ”If it’’s a conflict, it must be disclosed and the interested   party must disclose the decision making,” she continued. ”The   board can vote to do it. The Clinton Foundation has a larger   board that can make decisions about things that happen with   conflicts of interest.” ’ ’   When it comes to allegations of ”pay to play,” where foundation   donors supposedly got increased access to the former secretary of   state while she held the post, Friday said ”it is not always   illegal or improper,” when a donor receives something in return   for a gift. ’ ”   She added that it mostly falls on the donors’ shoulders to list   what of value they received in return for making a charitable   contribution while filing their taxes. ” ’   But where it becomes murky is when the thing of value received is   not something tangible. Like, for instance, access. ’ ’   ”Because how do you value that?” she said. ”How do you report   that? And it’’s probably good practice to avoid that whole   situation  —   having a donor get something in return that you can’’t   possibly report.” ’ ”   It’s also tricky when the donors are from foreign nations and   often not subject to filing their own taxes within the US, she   said. ” ”   Looking at the speeches, Mirkay said the bigger issue is whether   they should’ve been listed as income. ” ’   ”Because it’’s kind of a    where I’’ll speak if you give   money to the foundation,” he said. ”At least one difference   between that situation and here, again also, so, you know, [this   is] not really what we want to be going on, at least arguably   there is less of a personal benefit or at least direct personal   benefit in that situation than with Trump actually paying off   expenses with foundation assets.” ’ ’   ”Still, not something we shouldn’’t be concerned about and not   serious, but I guess the benefit is that there is potential   evasion of tax there and whether or not there was actually a true   gift,” he continued. ”Because when something was received in   return, that’’s not a true gift.” ’ ”   During a recent interview with Business Insider, billionaire   businessman and Clinton supporter Mark Cuban said two important   questions regarding the foundation controversy have not been   asked: What the market for the former president’s speeches is,   and what was the sales pitch he was giving? ” ’   ”I know how much I get paid,” the owner of the NBA’’s Dallas   Mavericks said. ”I can get $250, 000 for a speech if it’’s a big   organization. And I’’ll ask for more if you’’re making my ass   travel somewhere       up.” ’ ”   Cuban said that if Clinton were engaging in a pay to play,   he’d be asking for a lot more than market value for those   speeches and engagements on behalf of the foundation. ” ’   ”If you’’re doing pay for play, you better get a whole lot more   than the market value for the risk you’’re taking,” he said. ”Why   hasn’’t anybody asked the question?” ’ ’   ”What’’s the sales pitch? Why are they giving you the money?” he   asked. ’ ’   Whether any sort of pay to play was in practice comes down to   whether a ”premium” was paid for engagements through the   foundation. ’ ’   ”If there’’s no premium, then either the guy’’s an idiot or there’’s   no  ” Cuban said. ’ ’   In comparing both controversies, Mirkay said there’’s ”definitely   some similarity,” but said Trump’’s ”disregard for the rules” was   more ”conscious.” ’ ’   ”I think in both instances it really does show the ability of   people with wealth to have organizations and essentially   manipulate income,” he said. ”There seems to be much more of a   personal benefit going to Trump in that he’’s paying off personal   expenses or debts that he’’s incurred with foundation assets that   there is at least more of a conscious disregard for the rules   there.” ’ ’   He called the Clinton Foundation’’s situation ”a little bit   murkier.” ’ ’   ”Not a lot,” Mirkay said. ”I would hate to say somehow that   her’’s is not at all significant because if   [  ] truly happened, obviously that is a problem.” ’