’  ’ ”   The US and Russia exchanged diplomatic jabs on Sunday night and   into Monday over the   Syrian government’s latest     offensive on rebel holdouts in the country’s   largest city. ” ’   ”What Russia is sponsoring and doing is not counterterrorism, it   is barbarism,” Samantha Power, US ambassador to the United   Nations, told member nations at a UN Security Council meeting on   Sunday. ’ ’   ”Instead of pursuing peace, Russia and [Syrian President Bashar]   Assad make war. Instead of helping get   aid to   civilians, Russia and Assad are bombing the humanitarian convoys,   hospitals, and first responders who are trying desperately to   keep people alive.” ’ ’   Hundreds of people  in the worst aerial bombardments   of the   eastern half of Aleppo since the war began in   2011. The bombings punctuated the collapse of a fragile     brokered between the US and Russia earlier this month. ’ ’   The UN’’s special envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura,  that the bombardments had reached a   ”remarkable new intensity  —   unprecedented in scale and type of   bombing,” and warned that a renewed takeover battle for     eastern Aleppo could mean ”a slow, grinding,      fight over the course of months if not years.” ’ ’   The Syrian Civil Defense, also known as the White Helmets  —   local   rescue teams that help dig people out of the rubble of airstrikes    —   reported ”” and ”nonstop airstrikes” on   Saturday morning. ’ ’  ’ ’   The group said on Twitter that its ”teams are under tremendous   pressure.” ’ ’   The rescue service also says it has been targeted by Syrian and   Russian warplanes continuously  —   most notably last week, when it   says it was attacked while trying to help UN aid convoys that had   been bombarded while trying to deliver supplies across the     border. ’ ’   White Helmets buildings in Aleppo were also deliberately targeted   in multiple airstrikes on Friday, Abdul Rahman   the   chief liaison officer for the White Helmets, based in Aleppo,   . ’ ”   Britain’s ambassador to the UN, Matthew Rycroft, walked out of   the Security Council meeting on Sunday as Syria’s envoy to the   UN, Bashar Jaafari, began to speak. The US and France also walked   out. ” ’   ”It is difficult to deny that Russia is partnering with the   Syrian regime to carry out war crimes,” Rycroft said. ’ ’   Britain’’s newly appointed foreign secretary, Boris Johnson,   joined in the chorus of international condemnation shortly   afterward, telling the BBC’’s ”The Andrew Marr Show” that Russia   was ”guilty of protracting” the war in Syria and of ”making it   far more hideous.” ’ ”   Echoing the regime, Russia once again defended itself by   insisting the airstrikes were targeting Syria’s militants. ” ’   ”In Syria, hundreds of armed groups are being armed, the   territory of the country is being bombed indiscriminately, and   bringing a peace is almost an impossible task now because of   this,” Russia’’s ambassador to the UN, Vitaly Churkin, told the   council. ’ ’   The Kremlin’’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, called the US and UK   envoys’’ language ”unacceptable.” ’ ’   ”We note that the tone and rhetoric used by official   representatives from the UK and US is generally unacceptable and   it can seriously damage the settlement process and our bilateral   relations,” he  on Monday. ’ ’   Jeff White, a military expert at the Washington Institute for   Near East Policy, said that the jabs are, at this point, more   than just ”sound and fury.” ’ ’   Europe analyst Alex Kokcharov, a risk analyst with IHS, said the   language was ”probably the strongest we’’ve heard since the Cold   War ended.” ’ ’   ”This is significant  —   both the fact that the UN Security Council   met on a weekend and also that they have used words such as war   crimes,”Kokcharov . ’ ’  ’ ’   White noted that while the Obama administration is ”not going to   make a major policy change at this point, it may be willing to   increase clandestine support to the rebels somewhat.” ’ ’   Any concerted effort by the administration to end the   bombardments remains elusive, however. Obama barely mentioned the   war  to the UN General Assembly last Tuesday,   reiterating his   belief that ”there is no ultimate   military victory to be won.” And he  from both sides of the aisle to pass   sanctions on the Assad regime and its supporters. ’ ’   The verbal crossfire at the UN circumscribes how much diplomatic   progress US Secretary of State John Kerry will be able to make   with his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, on halting the   indiscriminate bombing campaign. ’ ’   ”Hard to see how this can go forward now with any credibility,”   White said. ’ ’   The new   campaign is a dramatic setback for the   opposition in Aleppo, which early in August was on the verge of   breaking a monthlong government siege on the city in ”one of the   largest coordinated rebel campaigns of the war to date.” ’ ”   The   put a temporary end to the heavy fighting  —   but it   also appears to have swung the pendulum back in the regime’s   favor. ” ’   Hadi Alabdallah, a Syrian journalist on the Aleppo front lines,    that ”the     forces deteriorated very quickly” in the face of the rebel   assault. ’ ’   ”It was very surprising, and much faster than anyone had   expected,” he said. ”Officers from those [ ] militias   fled and left their soldiers out on the field, so they started to   flee as well. That’’s why the artillery academy was so easy to   overrun —   it was captured within two hours.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Less than three weeks into the   however, the regime   unleashed its most ferocious assault on the city to date  —   and   with   relations rapidly deteriorating, a negotiated   pause in the bombardments appears unlikely. ’ ’   ”The Assad regime and with direct participation of its ally   Russia and Iranian militias has escalated its criminal and   vicious attack on our people in Aleppo employing a scorched earth   policy to destroy the city and uproot its people,” read a   statement released on Sunday and signed by 30 mainstream rebel   groups. ’ ’   One hundred people died in the bombings on Friday alone,   according to James Le Mesurier, head of Mayday Rescue, which   trains Syrian rescue workers. Nearly 2 million people in both the     and   areas of Aleppo were left without   water. ’ ’   It was ”the worst day that we’’ve had for a very long time,” Le   Mesurier ’’ Ben Hubbard. ”They are calling it    .” ’