’  ’ ’   All of us have morning routines  —   even if some days are more   hectic than others. ’ ’   For most of us, it usually involves the act of waking up,   preparatory measures for ourselves (and sometimes others) then a   departure to the workplace. ’ ”   At first glance, these steps may seem like a trite and   insignificant part of your day, especially if you’re used to the   same pattern of behavior. ” ’   But the course of your morning routine has a major impact on how   the rest of your day goes  —   and you might be sabotaging it   without realizing it. ’ ”   If you depend on anecdotal evidence alone, it’s clear why morning   routines are important. Countless entrepreneurs have credited a   stable, productive morning routine for  and you probably   know at least a handful of people with chaotic or nonexistent   morning routines who always appear behind on their work. ” ’’ ’   But a solid morning ritual as a productivity powerhouse has   more than anecdotal evidence behind it  —   studies show that having   a consistent, effective routine . Furthermore,   proactive morning people are . ’ ”   So what’s stopping you from achieving these benefits? ” ” 1. You don’t make a plan ” ”   Having a plan has a major impact on how much work you actually   get done. If you want your morning to be productive and   organized, you need to have a plan for how you’re going to   execute those tasks. Even if it’s just a quick mental checklist,   starting your day with a plan will help you get an initial boost   for your day. ” ” 2. You’re reactive instead of proactive ” ”   Remember, it’s proactive morning people who see the benefits of   reduced stress and anxiety. If you’re reactive instead of   proactive, the way most people are, you’ll end up sabotaging   yourself. For example, if you find yourself pulled from task to   task in the morning, jumping into different areas as you’re   reminded of them, this is an example of reactive   behavior. If you deliberately decide which task you’re going to   tackle in advance, you’re being proactive. ” ” 3. You don’t get enough sleep ” ”   Of course, you could be sabotaging your morning by not getting   enough sleep the night before. Adults  every night, and if you don’t get it, you’ll have a   harder time thinking clearly, you’ll be less creative, and your   memory will suffer. ” ”   When you’re busy, it’s easy for sleep to take a backseat, but   you’ll need to prioritize it if you want to be a more productive,   effective morning person. ” ’ 4. You skip breakfast ’ ”   There are . You’ll lower your risk of   developing heart disease and diabetes, you’ll improve your memory   function, and you might even lose weight. Skipping breakfast may   seem like an easy way to shave a few minutes off your morning   routine, but the   consequences aren’t worth the   tradeoff. ” ’ 5. You immediately plunge into work ’ ”   Thanks to the functionality of smartphones, tablets, and other      gadgets, it’s easy to do work anywhere, any time.   When you’re trying to get as much work done as fast as possible,   it’s tempting to plunge into work immediately, checking your   email while still in bed, or starting work on a task as soon as   you get up. ” ’   However, this can be counterproductive. Your brain needs time to   warm up; instead, take a few moments to meditate, exercise, or   shower. ’ ” 6. You don’t leave yourself enough time ” ”   Rushing around like a crazy person isn’t a good tone to set for   the day. If you set your alarm too late or have a tendency to   oversleep, try incrementally setting your alarm for earlier   times. Give yourself at least 15 minutes more than you think you   need. ” ’ 7. You put yourself in stressful situations ’ ’   Putting yourself in stressful situations early in the day can put   you in a bad mood. And the thing about bad moods is that they   have a tendency to last all day  —   sometimes even longer  —   unless   you deliberately work yourself out of them.  ’ ’ your   mood can literally affect how you see and interpret the world   around you. So if you find yourself in a bad traffic jam or in a   similarly stressful situation, it can sabotage the rest of your   day. Avoid these situations entirely by planning around them, or   work on managing your stress while they happen. ’ ”   Once you recognize these sabotaging factors in your own routine,   you can take measures to eliminate them. Don’t expect this to   happen all at once, especially if these are ingrained into your   routine as staple features. ” ’   Instead, take these problems one at a time and gradually wean   yourself, replacing them with healthier habits and a more   productive, proactive morning ritual. It takes patience, but you   can get there. ’