’  ’ ”   At least three Fox News hosts cited unscientific online polls in   the hours following Monday’s presidential debate to suggest   Donald Trump emerged as the winner of the political showdown. ” ’   Trump did, in fact, come out ahead in a slew of online polls on   various websites. But those polls were all unscientific, meaning   the sample of participants did not accurately reflect the sample   of viewers who watched the debate. The Drudge Report, a popular   conservative news source, also linked to each online poll,   heavily skewing the results. Such polls are almost always   discounted by professional pollsters and analysts. ’ ’   The only scientific survey conducted in the immediate aftermath   was  which showed viewers thought   Hillary Clinton handily defeated Trump. ’ ’   But that important distinction did not stop a handful of Fox News   hosts from promoting the results of the online polls. ’ ’   Sean Hannity led the charge in the hours after the debate,   repeatedly citing online polls as supposed proof Trump won the   debate. ’ ’   ”I have it in front of me. Time magazine, Drudge Report, CNBC,   The Hill, CBS  —   the only one that has Hillary winning is CNN, and   they are the ’’Clinton News Network,’’” Hannity told millions of   viewers. ’ ’   Not only did CBS  but Hannity strongly implied that the   unscientific online polls were more accurate than the     poll, a patently false claim. ’ ’   ”They surveyed  —   these other ones have hundreds of thousands if   not millions” of participants, Hannity said of the polls. ’ ”   Most pollsters will say that it’s not the size of the sample that   is most important, but whether the sample is reflective of the   population the poll purports to represent. ” ’   Nevertheless, Fox hosts continued to cite the online polls on   broadcasts Tuesday morning. ’ ’   ”Fox and Friends” cohost Steve Doocy said he found it   ”interesting” Trump won such polls, though he did note that they   were unscientific. ’ ’   ”For the most part, Donald Trump is winning in those if you go   online, like Drudge and stuff like that,” Doocy said. ”It’’s   interesting.” ’ ’   ”I think a majority of the online polls show, according to the   stuff we saw this morning, they show that he’’s leading,” the host   later added. ”It’’s not scientific.” ’ ’   Martha MacCallum, cohost of ”America’’s Newsroom,” also cited the   online polls, making no mention that they were conducted online   and that all were unscientific. ’ ’   ”A lot of polls show him winning last night,” she said.   ”Fascinating, right? It’’s fascinating.” ’ ’   A spokesperson for Fox News did not immediately respond to a   request for comment on Tuesday. ’ ’   Trump frequently touted online polls in the aftermath of the GOP   debates to argue that he won. On Tuesday morning, he continued   the pattern, tweeting a screenshot of various online polls   designating him the winner. His campaign also blasted out a list   of 13 such online surveys. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tSuch a great honor. Final debate polls are in   and the MOVEMENT wins!    ’ ’   Yet not only were those polls contrary to the only scientific   survey conducted, but focus groups also . ’ ’   Republican pollster Frank Luntz reported that 16 people in his   focus group thought Clinton came out as the winner; only six   people thought the winner was Trump. A CNN focus group of   undecided Florida voters arrived at the same conclusion; 18 of   the 20 participants chose Clinton as the winner. ’