’  ’ ”   Donald Trump blasted reports that there’s turmoil within his   campaign after a debate performance that some political observers   are characterizing as disastrous. ” ’   NBC News reporter Katy Tur    Wednesday that the ”mood in Trump world is darker than usual.” ’ ’   ”1 source says debate was a ’’disaster,’’” Tur tweeted. ”2nd: might   hire debate coaches. 3rd: He’’s a fast learner.” ’ ’   She continued in a : ”No one on team Trump is counting him out. They just   acknowledge that he wasn’’t ready the other night.” ’ ’   Other sources, however,  that the mood within the campaign of the Republican   presidential nominee has ”never been better” and that the Trump   family is happy with the campaign’’s leadership. ’ ’’ ”   Trump blasted Tur’s reporting shortly after Tur sent the   tweets. ” ’   ”Your sources, if they even exist, are probably sources that have   been fired long ago and have no knowledge of what is happening in   the campaign,” Trump said in a statement provided to Tur. ”Hard   to be unhappy when we are doing so well.” ’ ’   Both the   instant poll immediately after the debate and   the NBC News poll released Wednesday showed that voters thought   Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton won the first   debate Monday. ’ ’   The New York Times  that campaign advisers plan to prepare   Trump better for the second debate on October 9. ’ ”   But the prep doesn’t seem to be going so well. ” ”   Campaign advisers told the Times that there’s concern Trump isn’t   willing to adequately prepare. And while people have been   training Trump on how to appropriately respond to Clinton’s   attacks, he reportedly wasn’t able to execute them in practice. ” ”   Seven campaign aides and advisers who talked to the Times   anonymously expressed disappointment in Trump’s debate   performance. ” ’   Voters  with Republican pollster   Frank Luntz described Clinton as confident,   and calm   and criticized Trump for going   and making too many   offensive personal attacks. ’ ’   Advisers are now reportedly training Trump to resist getting   baited by Clinton and focus more on a coherent strategy. ’ ’   But it remains to be seen whether Trump will listen to this   advice. ’