’  ’ ”   Hillary Clinton’s performance in the first presidential debate   buoyed hopes of her victory in November, especially in Mexico,   where her performance  and . ” ’   But win or lose, there is still the potential for Donald Trump,   who has made having Mexico pay for a wall on the southern border   a central campaign promise, to have a lasting impact on the   Mexican political landscape. ’ ’   The Republican candidate has already caused turmoil in the   sitting Mexican government. ’ ”   In the wake of Trump’s visit with current President Enrique Peña   Nieto in early September, Luis Videgaray, one of Peña Nieto’s   closest advisers and reportedly the person who suggested Trump’s   visit, . ” ’   As Trump has tapped into a dissatisfaction with the political   status quo in the US, his stance toward Mexico appears to have   bolstered the position of a Mexican presidential candidate who   has the same . ’ ”   Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, often referred to as AMLO, has twice   run for Mexico’s presidency, losing  in 2006 and again by  to Peña Nieto in 2012  —   and he’s set   to run again in 2018. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Lopez Obrador was the big winner in the last election cycle,   because they had so much to gain,” David Shirk, a professor at   the University of San Diego, told Business Insider. ”They were a   nonpresence, and they basically were able to sap a whole bunch of   strength away from the PRD, and no other party made as large a   gain as in the election as Lopez Obrador.” ’ ”   Peña Nieto’s Institutional Revolutionary Party lost  it held going   into that election cycle, a defeat attributed to  the country’s weak   economy, and  all of which have dogged the   party. ” ”   The shortcomings of the PRI and other mainstream parties, coupled   with Trump’s incendiary rhetoric about Mexico, has burnished   AMLO’s appeal as an outsider willing to challenge the status quo   and as a defender of Mexicans. ” ’  ’ ’   ”If Trump were to win the U. S. elections, Lopez Obrador would   have a field day,” Miami Herald columnist Andrés Oppenheimer    in June, after the PRI’’s electoral   drubbing. ”Lopez Obrador’s fiery speeches against Trump’s     would rally many Mexicans behind him.” ’ ”   Recent presidential polls have found AMLO in contention in   Mexico’s multiparty system. ” ’   An early August poll by Mexican newspaper Reforma  at between 24% and 29%   comparable to the 24% to 27% support for Margarita Zavala of the   rightist National Action Party. ’ ”   An August poll by Mexican newspaper El Universal found him with a    rating, while another round of   polls that month  with 24. 8% to Zavala’s 25. 99% ” ’   A recent  found him trailing Zavala by   only 2 percentage points, and other surveys have put him in first   with as much as 28%  to The Wall Street Journal. ’ ”   If Trump were to take the White House in November and doesn’t   moderate his tone on Mexico, chances are AMLO would benefit. ” ’   ”If the negative rhetoric on Mexico would continue after the US   election, it would definitely bolster Andrés Manuel López   Obrador’s competitiveness because he would be framed as more   nationalistic and more capable candidate to really fight back   that negative rhetoric that has been taking place in the US   against Mexico,” Carlos Petersen, Eurasia Group’’s Latin America   associate,  in August. ’ ’  ’ ”   Moreover, if Mexico’s current government continues to be plagued   by corruption allegations and if  Mexico’s established parties will likely have more   trouble steering voters away from him. ” ’   ”In two years, if incumbents haven’t done more to address   Mexico’s corruption and violence problems, it will be very hard   to scare people with the prospect of a Lopez Obrador victory,”   former US Ambassador to Mexico Tony Garza told Oppenheimer   . ’ ’   ”People will say, ’’Are you telling me that I should be scared of   Lopez Obrador, when you haven’t done the things that you should   have been doing for years? ’’” ’ ’   Unlike Trump, AMLO has held public office but spent little time   in the private sector, but in other aspects, the two are fitting   counterparts. ’ ’   ”I guess the main point of distinction that sets AMLO apart is   that he is, in some ways he is like Trump,” said Shirk, who is   also the director of USD’’s Justice in Mexico program. ”He doesn’’t   play according to the traditional rules. He is his own man, and   his platform is really about him as much as they try to make it   seem otherwise.” ’ ’   ”It’’s basically that [AMLO] is a maverick,” Shirk added, ”and he   is going to stand up for the people and he’’s specifically going   to stand up for the poorest of the poor, and I think he would if   he gets elected.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Both have struck populist stances on economic issues. ’ ”   While Trump has targeted NAFTA in his campaign,  against  (the most polarizing   of which opened the country’s oil industry to private investment)   enacted under Peña Nieto, promising to reverse them. ” ”   And as Trump has been buffeted by reports of financial   impropriety and other misdeeds, AMLO has been accused of      dealings, most recently with reports finding he    his ownership of two   Mexico City apartments  —   nothing illegal, but a potential blow to   efforts to separate himself from Mexico’s establishment. ” ’   And like Trump, AMLO is competing to lead a country where   economic fortune has divergent for people at the top and the   bottom. ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   While AMLO may be trying to play to a broader constituency  —     striking a more conciliatory tone in late summer, seeking out   alliances with other parts of Mexico’s political left and easing   his stance on some of Peña Nieto’s reforms, as Carin Zissis of   the Americas   of the Americas   —   there are reasons to   doubt he would triumph in a presidential election that is still   more than a year away. ” ’   ’ ’   ”Whoever is against Peña has a chance now,” Rios told Business   Insider. ”That is AMLO but also PAN and everybody.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Lopez Obrador is necessarily limited to a very specific segment   of the electorate, and I don’’t know that Lopez Obrador will ever   be able to pull more than . .. 30% of the vote,” Shirk told   Business Insider. ’ ”   Some of AMLO’s positions could turn off parts of Mexico   electorate. He has  the importance of issues like   legalizing abortion and gay marriage and spoken of  for those implicated in   corruption. ” ’   ”With respect to AMLO I would only say he does not represent a   progressive, smart left but an authoritarian, old one,” Rios   argued. ”His platform does not represent younger, more creative,   educated and innovative Mexican voters,” Rios said. ’ ’   ”I think we definitely see a Peña Nieto slump due to Trump,”   Shirk said, ”but the Peña Nieto Trump slump doesn’’t necessarily   translate into a AMLO Trump bump.” ’