’  ’ ’   ”Shark Tank” investor Barbara Corcoran knows Donald   Trump better than most people. They both built their real estate   fortunes around the same time in New York City. ’ ’   ”I grew up with him,” Corcoran told Business Insider during a   ”Shark Tank” event at New York’’s Paley Center for Media this   week. ’ ’   In the early 1970s, both Corcoran and Trump were starting   their real estate careers. ’ ”   Corcoran   a real estate business called The   Corcoran Group with a $1, 000 loan from her   and    . She then later started The Corcoran Report, which   followed NYC’s real estate trends. At around the same time, Trump   took control of his father’s real estate and construction   business, which he later named The Trump Organization. ” ’   When it comes to business, Corcoran clearly respects the   Republican presidential candidate. ’ ’’ ’   ”From the day I met Donald, I remember my first thought on him   was that I’’ve never met a better salesman in my life,” she   recalled. ”I was in more business meetings where a customer,   client, and even a   had no interest in what he was wanting   to sell. And by the time five minutes of Donald talking was over,   the guy was begging him for the deal.” ’ ’   ”I probably learned so much about chutzpah and salesmanship   watching him, which I tried to incorporate but never really   pulled it out,” she continued. ”I’’m a medium salesman. He’’s an   amazing salesman. And what we see in the presidential election   today is a phenomenal salesman selling the American people.” ’ ”   Trump has been criticized by many,  for building his business with help from his rich   father, but she doesn’t believe that’s fair. ” ’   ”As a businessman, [Trump is] clever as a fox and built his   empire with a little help from his dad,” she told us. ”But most   of the credit is due him.” ’ ”   And yet with more than three decades of knowing Trump, Corcoran   can’t support his bid for president. She finds him too divisive a   person for the job. ” ’   ”As a leader, I couldn’’t imagine anyone who would be a less   effective leader,” she said. ”I think leadership has everything   to do with integrity. I think it has to do with teaching people   to aspire. I think at the core of leadership, you have to get   everyone on the same team to move the ball ahead. And you can’’t   have discord, you’’re a peacemaker as a leader if you want to have   a community of spirits and hearts. And I think in all those   categories, he has to come back as a different person. Next life,   maybe.” ’