’  ’ ’     made a brilliant move when it unveiled its   intention to corner the EV market by first offering an     SUV. ’ ’   The German automaker showed off its  at the Paris   Motor Show on Thursday. The concept is expected to get a range of   up to 310 miles, and Mercedes said the production model of the   car is expected to hit the streets in 2019. ’ ’   Mercedes said the electric SUV will fall in the same price range   as its GLC Crossover, which currently starts at $39, 150. ’ ”   Mercedes’ impending EQ roll out should scare Tesla for one main   reason: The EQ is an SUV. ” ’  ’ ’   Business Insider’’s Matt DeBord recently called attention to the   fact that . Edmunds, a     auto site, unveiled a report in August noting   that it’’s a great time to buy smaller vehicles at   shops   because ”there is so much more demand for used trucks and SUVs.” ’ ’   In fact,    while truck and SUV sales rose 2% according to the firm   Autodata. That stat fits into the larger trend of     sales declining over time. ’ ”   Now keep in mind that EVs as a whole have yet to have their time   to shine. Electric cars make up . It’s likely   a big reason for that is the  for electric cars. ” ”   So if you’re going to try and corner the   market, it   makes more sense to invest in a solid,   SUV, because   at the very least you’re giving consumers some semblance of what   they want. Considering electric cars have yet to garner real   traction, pushing electric sedans at a time where smaller car   sales are already falling is a tough hill to climb. ” ’  ’ ”   Dieter Zetsche, the head of the   car division, made   note of this reality during the EQ’s unveiling at the Paris   Motor Show. ” ’   ”We chose to launch our EV family with an SUV for good reasons.   Key among them is the ever rising popularity of this class of   vehicles, particularly with our Mercedes customer base,” Zetsche   said at the event. ”Since we want customers to love electric cars   we will start with the cars they love most.”  ’ ”   Now, to Tesla’s credit, it does offer the Model X SUV. But with a   hefty price tag of $80, 000, the Model X really only appeals to   those in the   market. ” ”   Tesla does have plans to bring an affordable, compact SUV,    to market, but there’s no   timeline on when we can expect to see it. Considering Tesla is   ramping up production to get the    sedan to consumers on time   in late 2017 or early 2018, it’s safe to say we won’t be seeing   the Model Y soon. ” ’   Mercedes is taking that window of opportunity to release its own   electric SUV with a competitive price tag of roughly   $39, 000. The automaker is also promising a range that can   exceed 300 miles, which  in select (read:   pricey) versions of the Tesla Model S and Model X. ’ ’   That means Mercedes is also aiming to tackle the range issue that   have plagued the EV market we mentioned earlier. ’ ’  ’ ’   Now Mercedes is in no way the only automaker looking to corner   the electric SUV market. ’ ”   Chevy is releasing its   SUV crossover,  which boasts a range of 238 miles,   at the end of 2016. By 2019, we would be surprised if the Bolt   didn’t cross the   mark. ” ’   Audi and Hyundai are also both planning on rolling out an     SUV by 2018. Volkswagen is planning to roll   out five electric vehicles by 2020, with more than one of   those likely to be a crossover or SUV of some kind. And Volvo   aims to offer at least  one of   which is expected to be a crossover or SUV. ’ ’   So Mercedes is one of many looking to dominate the EV space   by offering a competitive,   SUV within the next three   years. ’ ’   But considering Mercedes has released one of the more detailed   plan about making an affordable, electric SUV with a solid range   in the near future, Tesla may want to ramp up its Model Y   timeline.  ’