’  ’ ’   A historic transfer of internet power was scheduled to occur at   midnight Saturday. ’ ’   The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers became an   autonomous nonprofit after a contract with the US Department of   Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information   Administration expired. ’ ’   Now ICANN will perform the duties of the Internet Assigned   Numbers Authority without direct oversight of the US   government.  ’ ’   Instead, ICANN is now accountable to international stakeholders   that include a governmental advisory committee, a technical   committee, an industry committee, internet users, and other   telecommunications experts. ’ ’   The organization, based out of Los Angeles, coordinates the   Domain Name System that matches internet addresses with their   actual numerical computer addresses. IANA functions include   maintaining the registry of IP addresses and the allocation of     resources. ’ ’   The entire ordeal sounds extremely complicated  —   and it did not   come without its fair share of controversy. ’ ’   That contract, which is now officially expired, had been in place   since 1998. Both businesses and members of the international   community had been pressuring the US to cede control over IANA   functions, deemed by some as a very minor ordeal  —   likening it to   printing the phone book. But others, such as Sen. Ted Cruz of   Texas, likened it to ”giving away the internet.” ’ ’   Cruz originally wanted a provision in the recent stopgap spending   bill in Congress to prevent this transfer from occurring, but   that did not happen. Late this week, the attorney generals of   four states filed a lawsuit in federal court looking to block the   midnight Saturday transfer, but it was thrown out by a federal   judge in the Southern District of Texas on Friday. ’ ’   ”This transition was envisioned 18 years ago, yet it was the   tireless work of the global internet community, which drafted the   final proposal, that made this a reality,” ICANN Board Chair   Stephen D. Crocker said in a statement. ”This community validated   the   model of internet governance.” ’ ”   Speaking to Business Insider Friday, before the Texas judge’s   decision, aides to Cruz called the issue  —   which amounts to   control over the internet address book  —   a ground zero of   protecting free speech online. They also criticized the White   House for claiming that, in his fight against the transfer, Cruz   didn’t understand how the internet works and wanted to   keep government involved in the process. ” ’   ”I love it when   liberals try and lecture   conservatives about limited government,” an aide said. ’ ”   Chief among Cruz’s concerns is that a government   advisory council is part of ICANN. He believes that the foreign   governments who have a voice in that part of the group will begin   to have a much bigger sway in how it operates going forward. His   aides likened it to a form of the UN, where each country involved   will be on equal footing. ” ’   The problem with that, Cruz believes, is that countries such as   Russia and China, both of which maintain strict internet   control in their own countries, will be able to exert it on a   global stage, possibly even impacting internet freedom within the   US. ’ ’   But Sen. Chris Coons of Delaware told Business Insider in a   Friday interview that the way the Texas Republican is   characterizing the issue ”is exactly wrong.” ’ ’   ”This is not a handover of control of the internet to some UN   body, as much as he tries to make it sound like ICANN, which is   an American corporation registered in California, is some   international body,” the Delaware Democrat said. ”It isn’’t the UN   or anything like it.” ’ ’   ”The way that China or Russia could have greater influence over   the naming function of the internet is if we delay this   transition,” he continued. ”Lose our credibility internationally   that we do intend to privatize this function, and give them the   leverage to make stronger arguments at the United Nations that   the UN . .. should begin preparing to set up their own DNS   function. I think there is a very small risk that this transition   will lead to any increased role for any country, including those   that censor the internet in their own country.” ’ ”   Cruz’s team insisted that, although ICANN has not censored   content in the past as a part of their duties, the senator   believes they could have that ability moving forward. The group   performs only a clerical function, but Cruz believes that could   change. ” ’   Using the example of ”Free Tibet” groups in China, which have   their web content blocked within that country while it can still   be viewed elsewhere, a Cruz aide said China could begin to   dictate whether that content makes it outside of the country. ’ ’  ’ ’   Coons used the   analogy to try and disprove what Cruz   has argued. He said that, when he was a kid, the Yellow Pages and   White Pages essentially had a monopoly. But by the 1990s,   dozens of publishers printed competing phone books. ’ ’   ”The fact that there is a company that publishes the Yellow Pages   that says if you want to purchase from a hardware store in your   city, you know, here they all are, here are all of their names,   that doesn’’t restrict what you can say on the phone to the   hardware store,” he said in his analogy. ”It has nothing to do   with the content of your conversations with the hardware store.   All it does is assign pages to certain names and numbers. That’’s   pretty similar to what the IANA does.” ’ ’   ”The IANA maintains the directory for when a string of numbers   comes through your computer  —   it translates it into a bunch of   numbers and then connects you to the right computer,” he   continued. ”One of the things that was clearly eluding the   critics of this transition was the idea that there could ever be   a second Yellow Pages or a third Yellow Pages. Right now, the   internet, which is a network of networks, is not owned or   controlled by anyone. That’’s why it’’s the internet.” ’ ’   Coons called the   contract   that just expired a deal for ”one version of the phone   book.” ’ ’   ”And for 20 years, they’’ve said ’’America, at some point, will you   turn over this minor role you have in this organization that is   printing the Yellow Pages,” he said. ”And we said in both   Democratic and Republican administrations, ’’Sure, we’’ll get   around to it. Sure, we’’re about to do that. ’’” ’ ’   He said that, with many in the international community growing   leery that the US would ever end up actually doing it,   there was increasing support for a ”competing phone book”   run by a   of the UN. That sounds a lot like exactly what   Cruz does not want. ’ ’   ”And the entity that would resolve disputes between who owns   which domain or which website will be resolved by this UN   agency,” Coons said. ”That is a structure where countries like   China and Iran and Russia would have a bigger role. Instead, we   have focused on the last four years pretty aggressively, and in   the last two in a heightened way, on privatizing a very minimal   US government role in overseeing how this   contract is   administered.” ’ ’   ”Here’’s the true irony: Sen. Cruz is a tireless advocate for   personal liberty and an opponent of   control in   just about every subject matter area except this one,” the   senator continued. ”What he’’s opposing is privatization. By   opposing it, he’’s actually putting at risk the possibility that   it will instead be taken over by a competing effort led by   countries that do not favor free speech in the UN. Does that make   any sense?” ’ ’   The Delaware senator said the transfer should make ”no real   difference” for everyday Americans, as there should be no   perceivable change in how the internet works, explaining   that it has to do with the ”wires, plumbing, and piping” of   the internet, not its content. ’ ’   Coons asked why tech giants would be in favor of the   transfer if it posed a legitimate threat to internet freedom. ’ ’   ”Why would companies like Dell and Cisco and Microsoft and Intel    —   who rely on a robust and open global internet for their   businesses  —   why would they be so invested and concerned about   this?” he said. ”Because they need predictability.” ’ ’   ”Because ICANN, this large company in California that is largely   run by the internet community, which is largely run by American   companies, why would they want that group in control of this   internet naming function rather than the UN,” he continued. ”I   think you just got the answer.” ’ ’   At the UN, countries such as Russia or Iran would have that equal   footing to the US, while ICANN, because it is based out of   California, is still subject to California law, he said. And it   will be mostly under the purview of the private sector, which has   a business interest in the internet being open and free. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”If I got to choose between having the phone book published by   the UN or by an American nonprofit company that is headquartered   in California and subject to California law, I know which one I   want,” he said. ”I want the latter.” ’ ’   The senator called the reason Cruz wanted to stop the   transfer a ”fringe conspiracy theory,” adding that many such   theories have gained plenty of traction during the 2016 campaign   season. ’ ’   ”One of the things that has made this campaign season   particularly interesting is the number of fringe conspiracy   theories that have somehow made their way into the mainstream,”   he said. ”This issue is no exception to that unfortunate trend.” ’ ’   On Friday, after aligning himself with Cruz’’s position on the   issue, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump ripped the   ”disastrous” IANA transfer during a rally. ’ ’   ”Hillary Clinton is merely a vessel for the special interested   trying to strip this country of its wealth, its jobs, and its   status as a sovereign nation,” . ”She even supports the disastrous surrender   of America’’s control of the internet  —   let it be given to the   world. What a bunch of people we have representing us. What a   bunch of people.” ’ ’   Coons said Trump’’s statement shows, ”unfortunately,” that Trump   ”is not well informed on   matters.” ’ ’   ”This particular issue was seized upon by a few in order to score   some points, by misleadingly suggesting that President [Barack]   Obama is giving away the internet,” the senator said. ”The   United States does not own a set of keys to the internet. It’’s   not a physical thing. It’’s not as if we’’re taking our dad’’s   Oldsmobile and giving it away at a flea market. It is a network   of networks. And that is a hard thing to grasp and an easy thing   to mislead people about.” ’