’  ’ ’   When Leif Babin became a Hell Week instructor for Basic   Underwater   training ( ) he had already   served as a Navy SEAL platoon leader in the . ’ ’   Still, he learned a profound lesson about leadership:   ”There are no bad teams, only bad leaders.” ’ ’ and his former   commander and current business   partner,    recently visited Business Insider’’s New York office for a   . Babin told a story about learning this   lesson through   which he also shares in his and Willink’’s     ”.” ’ ”   In one exercise, Babin explained, SEAL candidates were grouped by   height into boat crews of seven men and assigned to a     inflatable boat that weighed more than 200 pounds. The most     sailor became the   leader responsible for   receiving, transmitting, and overseeing the execution of the lead   instructor’s orders. They were to go through a grueling string of   races that involved running with the boat and then paddling it in   the ocean. ” ’   After several rounds, one particular team came in first and   another in last nearly every time. The instructors decided to   switch the leaders of the best and worst teams, and the results   were remarkable. Under new leadership, the formerly great team   did relatively well but was a shadow of its past self, and the   formerly terrible team placed first in nearly every race. ’ ’  ’ ’   The once great team had practiced enough with each other to   accomplish something even under bad management, but the bad   leader was unable to command respect or maintain synchronicity. ’ ’   Meanwhile, the excellent leader had taken his new team from last   to first by getting them to believe that they were just as   capable as his former team, and that bickering with each other   during the exercise would not be tolerated. ’ ’   During the Facebook Live interview, Babin explained that he and   Willink see the same behaviors in the companies they work with   through their   firm, Echelon Front. ’ ’   He said that managers will often ask them to come in and fix   their underperforming teams. And while there are certainly   underperforming employees who may need to be fired, it would be   silly to think that an entire team should be fired due to their   own incompetence, Babin explained. So before anyone is let go,   bosses need to correct their own behavior. ’ ’   ”One of the things that I learned from that     example is that most people want to lead,” Babin said.   ”The team that was failing there, they didn’’t want to be on the   failing team. They wanted to win. . .. It’’s about checking   the ego  —   it’’s about being humble, to recognize what can   I do better to lead my team.” ’ ’   Babin said he can remember  where he thought, ”If I   just had a better team, I would do better.” ’ ’   ”Wrong,” he said of this train of thought. ”If I was a   better leader, my team would have been better, and that’’s what   leaders have to recognize and step up and make happen.” ’ ’   You can watch the full Facebook Live Q&A below. ’ ’ ’