’  ’ ’   Joaquín ”El Chapo” Guzmán’’s appeals against his extradition    but that judge may takes weeks to rule, and the appeals   process that is sure to play out after his decision is sure to   drag on for weeks if not months. ’ ”   At the end of all that, a Mexican court may rule against the   government’s decision earlier this year to accede to extradition   requests from two US District Courts, a possibility that can’t be   discounted, especially since Guzmán’s legal team has  that the kingpin was mistreated   by state authorities. ” ”   But the disapproval of the Mexican judicial system would not be   the death knell of the Peña Nieto government’s efforts to rid   itself, and Mexico, of Guzmán. ” ’   ”As a technical matter, the Mexican executive [branch] is not at   all dependent on the Mexican judicial system to approve of   extradition,” Peter Vincent, a former legal adviser at the   US Department of Homeland Security, told Business Insider. ”It in   fact has unilateral authority . .. to ultimately approve   of extradition, because extradition is after all a diplomatic   matter, best handled by the executive branch.” ’ ’   There is precedent for the Mexican government to overrule a   decision by a court in order to carry out a     extradition request. ’ ’   Alberto Benjamin Arellano Felix, reputedly  at the time, was captured by Mexican authorities   in March 2002. Arellano Felix was sentenced to 22 years in jail   in Mexico, but efforts to extradite him to the US stalled. ’ ’  ’ ”   The US government’s extradition request was held  because of translation   delays and other administrative issues. This was compounded by   the change of government in Mexico at the end of 2006, when   Felipe Calderon took office. ” ”   The process hit another roadblock in May 2007, when a Mexican   judge ruled against Arellano Felix’s extradition saying that he   would be tried for charges he had  in Mexico. ” ’   But in 2008, the Mexican government  paving the way for   Arellano Felix to be sent to the US. At the time, the   Mexican  Arellano   Felix had been tried for drug trafficking and other offenses   committed prior to 1997, and that he would face trafficking   charges for years after that in the US. ’ ”   Moreover,  to USA Today, he was wanted in the   US for for money laundering, for which he wasn’t tried in   Mexico. ” ’   That opinion was  on the government, though it was   required to consider it. ’ ’   ”The ultimate decision on whether to extradite an individual   rests exclusively with the Secretary of Foreign Affairs [SRE]   which, of course, is part of the executive branch, which is   controlled by the president,” Vincent told Business Insider.   ”That is, the SRE is not required to follow the judge’s   recommendation.” ’ ”   Arellano Felix’s subsequent appeals were denied, and Mexican   authorities surrendered him to US officials in San Diego in April   2011. He took a plea deal and was  in April 2012. The   judge elected to  for the time he spent in   US custody, but upon the completion of his US sentence, around   the time he is 80, he will  the remainder of his     sentence in Mexico. ” ’  ’ ”   Mexico’s reversal on Arellano Felix’s extradition was part of a   relaxation of the country’s extradition policies that took place   in the   as the Vicente Fox and Calderon governments’   ramped up efforts to fight cartels. ” ”   Mexico had previously  to extradite   drug   bosses, as they could have faced the death penalty or life   imprisonment  —   sentences Mexico’s legal system does not   issue  —   in a US court. ” ’   The US  against Arellano   Felix in 2003 to avoid those sentences, but Mexico later   installed a legal workaround. ’ ’   As Vincent noted: ’ ’  ’ ’   But for Guzmán  —   a capo almost without rival who faces a bevy of   charges in the US (and whose cartel won a  in the 1990s and 2000s)  —   the Mexican government   may not need to take executive action. ’ ’   ”What the Mexican authorities . .. are sensitive to is allegations   that the Mexican executive is essentially denying . .. a Mexican   citizen of his constitutional rights, and [they are] not likely   to countermand in this . .. very   instance any   decision by the Mexican judiciary not to extradite,” Vincent told   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”All indications are, however, that the Mexican judicial system   ultimately will approve or allow the extradition of Mr. Guzmán,”   he stressed. ’