’  ’ ”   EU antitrust regulators plan to order Alphabet’s Google to stop   paying financial incentives to smartphone makers to     Google Search exclusively on their devices and warned the company   of a large fine, an EU document showed. ” ’   The document, running to more than 150 pages, was sent to   complainants last week for feedback. Google received a copy in   April in which the European Commission accused it of using its   dominant Android mobile operating system to shut out rivals. ’ ”   The EU competition enforcer in its charge sheet, known as a   statement of objections, said it planned to tell the U. S.   technology giant to halt payments or discounts to mobile phone   manufacturers in return for   Google’s Play Store   with Google Search. ” ’   The regulators also want to prevent Google from forcing   smartphone makers to   its proprietary apps if this   restricts their ability to use competing operating systems based   on Android. ’ ’   Google ”cannot punish or threaten” companies for not complying   with its conditions, according to the document seen by Reuters. ’ ’’ ”   The Commission’s investigation followed a complaint by   FairSearch, a lobby group supported by companies that want to   ensure they are not disadvantaged by search engine market   dominance, in March 2013. ” ’   Google could face a large fine because the     practices, which started from January 2011, are still ongoing,   the document said. ’ ’   ”The Commission intends to set the fine at a level which will be   sufficient to ensure deterrence,” it said. ’ ”   The penalty could be based on revenue generated from AdWords   clicks by European users, Google Search product queries, Play   Store apps purchases and AdMob’s   advertisements. ” ’   Commission spokesman Ricardo Cardoso declined to comment. Google   which has previously denied any wrongdoing, did not immediately   reply to a request for comment. ’ ’   Separately, the Commission is investigating whether Google favors   its own shopping service over those of rivals, and could also   fine it in that case. ’ ’   Google may have to rank rival comparison shopping services in the   same way as its own services, the charge sheet sent in July said.   The document, close to 150 pages, was heavily edited, with large   sections of confidential information redacted by Google. ’ ”   The Commission said it would decide at a later stage whether to   let Google charge competitors for displaying their services   prominently, with the amount corresponding to Google’s operating   cost or a nominal amount based on the lowest reserve price for   AdWords which is currently 0. 01 euro per click. ”