’  ’ ’   LeBron James has endorsed Hillary Clinton for president. ’ ’   The Akron,   NBA star exclusively announced his decision   in an . His   will also run in the local paper, the   Akron Beacon Journal, which . ’ ’   In the   James wrote that his endorsement decision   came down to a few factors. ’ ’   James has spent significant time and money building up his   hometown of Akron, mentoring local students and, in   some cases, paying for their college tuition through the LeBron   James Family Foundation. He said he feels Clinton is the   only candidate who ”understands the struggles of an Akron child   born into poverty.” ’ ”   Clinton, James said, is also the best candidate to carry out   President Barack Obama’s legacy. ” ’   James is close with the president and helped him campaign in   2008. A source close to James said he and Obama know each   other socially and occasionally text about basketball.   Obama sent James a congratulatory text after his team, the   Cleveland Cavaliers, overcame a   deficit in the NBA finals and   beat the Golden State Warriors in game 7.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Additionally, James said the US needs a president who will   bring the country closer. ’ ’   ”I do know we need a President who brings us together and   keeps us unified,” he wrote in   the  . ”Policies and ideas that divide us   more are not the solution. We must all stand together  —     no matter where we are from or the color of our skin. And   Hillary is running on the message of hope and unity that we   need.” ’ ”   James’ endorsement could aid Clinton in one of the   election’s critical swing states, Ohio, where she and Donald   Trump are currently battling for votes. Recent polls have shown   Trump with a slight lead in the bellweather state. ” ”   It’s somewhat unusual for an athlete like James, who has   hundreds of millions of sponsorship dollars on the line,   to take a stand. But increasingly, athletes are making   their opinions known on   issues. ” ”   NFL player Colin Kaepernick, for example,  to protest perceived racial   injustice. James, along with fellow NBA stars Chris Paul,   Carmelo Anthony, and Dwyane Wade, opened ESPN’s . ” ’   In an August interview,  why he isn’’t afraid to speak out.   James said, ”I ’ ”   You can read James’ full . ”