’  ’ ’   The Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals  Mike Pence’’s policy on refugee resettlement on   Monday, at one point calling the Indiana governor’’s arguments   ”nightmare speculation.” ’ ’   ”The governor of Indiana believes, though without evidence, that   some of these persons were sent to Syria by ISIS to engage in   terrorism and now wish to infiltrate the United States in order   to commit terrorist acts here,” the decision by a panel of three   judges said. ’ ’   It continued: ”No evidence of this belief has been presented,   however; it is nightmare speculation.” ’ ”   For Pence, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s running   mate, the decision was handed down the day before he is set to   debate Democratic   nominee and US Sen. Tim Kaine   in Farmville, Virginia. ” ”   Pence has been a vocal critic of President Barack Obama’s    citing security concerns and the belief that ISIS   operatives can sneak into the US under the guise of refugees and   commit terrorism on US soil. ” ”   Pence’s stance against refugee resettlement reached its   apotheosis after the Paris terrorist attacks in November. ” ’   After those attacks, he  that Indiana would not accept any incoming Syrian   refugees and directed state agencies not to allocate federal   funds toward refugee resettlement. His announcement came at about   the same time Trump proposed a temporary ban on Muslim   immigration into the US. ’ ’  ’ ’   Exodus Refugee Immigration, an organization that works with   refugees to resettle them in the US,  Pence in conjunction with the American Civil Liberties   Union on the grounds that Pence did not have the constitutional   right to bar refugees from Indiana. ’ ’   In February, the court  with Judge Tanya   Walton Pratt saying Pence’’s directive ”in no way” furthered the   government’’s ”asserted interest in the safety of Indiana   residents.” ’ ’   Pence’’s administration appealed the decision, and a hearing was   set for September 14 at the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. In   its decision Monday, the court unanimously upheld the lower   court’’s ruling, emphasizing the stringency of the refugee vetting   process while acknowledging ”there can be no certainty that no   terrorist will ever slip through the screen.” ’