’  ’ ’   Over four years ago, Google launched a bold evolution of search   called Google Now. Google Now wasn’t the search you were used to.   Instead of a list of results to your queries, you got the single   answer you were looking for. ’ ’   How old is Barack Obama? What time is the Super Bowl? When was   the last time the Mets won the World Series? ’ ’   You always got the answer. ’ ’   And even better, Google Now was proactive, bringing you the   information you wanted before you even knew you wanted it. Your   flight is delayed. Traffic is bad, so you’d better leave a few   minutes early if you want to make it to work on time. Your   favorite team lost again. ’ ’   Google Now felt like the future at a time when Apple was still   trying to get Siri to understand you when you asked it 2+2. ’ ’   On Tuesday, Google kicked it into high gear. ’ ’   At its big product launch event, Google Now officially became     with Google Assistant, the next evolution of its   AI. ’ ’   We got an early look at Assistant in  Google’s new messaging app that launched a few weeks   ago, but Tuesday’s event showed us Google’s true vision for its   new AI helper. Assistant will be everywhere, helping you out no   matter what gadget or app you’re using. ’ ’   And according to Google CEO Sundar Pichai, it’ll keep getting   smarter the more you use it, to the point that it’ll be so   customized to the user that there will be a unique Google   Assistant for everyone. ’ ’   It may not be a new idea  —   all the major tech companies from   Microsoft to Amazon to Facebook have their own AI assistants  —     but it is a category Google is uniquely qualified to dominate. ’ ’  ’ ’   After all these years, Google continues to embarrass the   competition. While Assistant can tap into the world’s knowledge,   Siri struggles to answer even the simplest queries. I recently   asked both AIs when Tuesday’s vice presidential debates start.   Google Assistant told me 9 p. m. Eastern. Siri gave me a list of   search results about the election from Bing. That’s just one   example, but if you use Google Assistant often enough, you   realize just how far ahead it is. ’ ’   Then there’s the new Google Home speaker, a competitor to   Amazon’s surprise hit Echo speaker. While the Echo is a great   device, Google’s demo of Home already felt ahead of what Amazon   has pulled off so far. Of course, it can play music and control   smart appliances. But it also intelligently answers questions   better than Amazon’s Alexa. And overall, Echo can’t do half of   the things we saw Home do on Tuesday. ’ ’   Google has literally built a multibillion dollar business on its   ability to answer questions. (Pichai said Tuesday Google’s   Knowledge Graph is loaded with a growing library of 70 billion   facts.) Now it’s focusing that expertise on AI that will be with   you no matter where you are. Your home. Your car. Your phone. And   soon, everywhere else. ’ ’   The AI assistant race is the next major battle in personal   computing, and Assistant is the first step towards that       computer. It already wipes the   floor with the competition, and it’s tough to see how anyone else   can keep up. ’