’  ’ ’   Sen. John McCain called on Wednesday for increased military   action in Syria to stop authoritarian leader Bashar     whose regime has massacred hundreds of thousands of civilians and   caused a global refugee crisis. ’ ’   In  McCain, who is   chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the case   for US intervention in Syria. ’ ’   The Obama administration has been reluctant to get more involved,   and over the past five years, the conflict has escalated. Russia   is now involved, running airstrikes in support of Assad, and Iran   is also bolstering the regime. ’ ’   ”As bad as this conflict is now, it can get much worse  —   and   likely will,” McCain wrote. ”It will produce millions more   refugees, undermining regional stability and straining the social   fabric of Western nations. It will strengthen an     alliance of Russia and Iran. US credibility with our closest   security partners in the Middle East will further erode. And it   will provide ISIS, or its successor groups, fertile ground to   radicalize Muslims, recruit and inspire them to fight, and   provide them with dangerous battlefield experience.” ’ ’   He continued: ”This is where the conflict in Syria is headed, and   the administration still has no strategy to do anything about it.   Its diplomacy is toothless. And there appears to be .” ’ ’   President Barack Obama has been often criticized for backing down   on his ”red line” in 2013 when he declined to strike Assad regime   facilities after evidence emerged of regime forces using chemical   weapons against civilians. Instead of a military strike, the   Obama administration brokered a deal with the help of Russia that   was supposed to see the removal of Assad’’s chemical weapons. ’ ’   Obama points to this now as a success. ’ ’   ”It continues to puzzle me, the degree to which people seem to   forget that we actually got the chemical weapons out of Syria,”   he told New York Magazine in an interview published this month.   ”The notion seems to be that, ’’Well, you should have blown   something up, even if that didn’’t mean that you got chemical   weapons out. ’’ There continues to be, I think, a lack of   examination of the fact that my decision was not to let Assad do   whatever he wanted.” ’ ’   The president continued: ”My decision was to see if we could   broker a deal without a strike to get those chemical weapons out,   and to go to Congress to ask for authorization, because nowhere   has Congress been more incoherent than when it comes to the   powers I have.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Obama sought approval from Congress for wider military action in   Syria at the time, but support for the plan was low. ’ ”   But McCain wrote that the idea that Congress wouldn’t approve   broader military action now is false. ” ’   ”The administration likes to pretend that Congress is not   prepared to support a more forceful approach because of its lack   of support for military action to enforce President Obama’’s red   line in 2013,” McCain wrote. ”This is a myth. What many in   Congress opposed was granting a reluctant president authority to   conduct what Secretary of State John Kerry promised would be   ’’unbelievably small’’ airstrikes in the absence of a broader   strategy to achieve US national interests in Syria. The US needs   that broader strategy now.” ’ ’   McCain outlined what that ”broader strategy” would look like: ’ ’   The Arizona senator also advocated for providing more   assistance to moderate rebels fighting Assad in Syria, noting   that it’’s the ”only way to isolate and target extremists on the   battlefield.” ’ ’   If left as it is now, the conflict in Syria will ”continue to   threaten the US and destabilize the world,” McCain concluded. ’ ”   The war in Syria has been raging on for more than five years.   Rebels who oppose Assad’s oppressive rule have been trying to   force him from power, and extremist groups have sprung up to take   advantage of the chaos. ” ’   Experts and  have argued that backing down on the   red line hurt US credibility in Syria, making it more difficult   to help solve the conflict now. ’