’  ’ ’   CNBC’’s John Harwood  that Donald   Trump’’s campaign has figured out its ”shortest” path to 270   electoral votes and a victory in the November election. ’ ”   And the path described is likely Trump’s most plausible to   the White House. ” ’   It centers on maintaining a lead in a pair of states in   which Trump currently holds an advantage but that 2012   Republican nominee Mitt Romney lost; flipping three more states   that are very tight; and making gains in one final state slightly   further away from his grasp. ’ ’   And, if Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton is able to pull out a   victory in any of those six states, Trump would fall short of the   needed 270 votes in the Electoral College. ’ ”   Here’s the path described: ” ’   Trump holds leads in each of those three locations  —   all places   Romney lost in 2012. Per the RealClearPolitics polling average,   Trump has a 2.  lead  a state that has voted for the   presidential winner in every election since 1964. However, the   most recent poll in the state showed Clinton up 2 points.    Trump is up 5 points in the latest   RCP average. And in the  Trump   has a comfortable 8.  lead. ’ ’   In total, maintaining those three states would amount to 25   electoral votes. ’ ’   Trump is holding steady in each of the states Romney won in 2012,   aside from . Trump is currently in a tight   race with Clinton in the Tar Heel state, where he trails by 1. 3   points. Clinton has come out on top in each of the past six polls   posted to RCP. ’ ’   Should Trump win North Carolina, maintain the Romney map, and   maintain his leads from above, he would have 231 electoral votes. ’ ”   This is the juncture at which it begins to get a bit more   difficult for Trump. Trump currently trails Clinton by 1. 4 points   in   —   well within the margin   of error of the state’s polls. ” ’   If Trump wins Nevada after the first two parts fall into   place, he would be looking at 237 electoral votes. ’ ’   The Sunshine State is starting to look increasingly difficult for   Trump, who led in a series of polls in Florida ahead of his   last debate performance. Still, Trump trails by just 2. 4 points   in the  average. ’ ’   Win there, and he would be up to 266 electoral votes. Just   four short. Which brings us to the final piece . .. ’ ’   The final state Trump would need to capture is  where he is facing the   toughest odds. Trump currently trails Clinton by 5 points in the   RCP average, but two recent polls found him within 2 points of   the former secretary of state in the Granite State. ’ ’   Win New Hampshire, and Trump is sitting at an even 270. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’