’  ’ ’   Democratic Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid asserted Thursday   that one of the most frequently cited outlets for state and   national polling numbers is ”the worst.” ’ ’   During a conference call with reporters   Thursday,  ’ ’   ”All of them are wrong,” Reid responded, referring to polls RCP   includes in its aggregator. ”Rather than doing your own stuff,   all you do is average out all these bad polls.” ’ ’   He added that ”RealClearPolitics is totally unimpressive to me”   and called the site ”one of the worst.” ’ ”   But if RealClearPolitics Executive Editor Carl   Cannon was particularly bothered by Reid’s comment, he   didn’t express it publicly. ” ’’ ”   In an email to Business Insider, Cannon noted Reid’s often   outspoken nature and lauded his candor. ” ’   ”I’m reminded of Harry Reid’s own description of his approach to   public discourse, which he once explained to a beleaguered aide   this way: ’’My mouth works faster than my brain. And it just comes   out. ’’ I think that explains why many of us in the media will miss   Sen. Reid when he retires. At least he’s colorful,” Cannon said. ’ ’   While Reid argued that many public polls underestimated his   chances at winning his 2010 reelection, Canon pointed out   that RCP was far from the only outlet whose data did   not correctly predict the results of that particular race. ’ ’   ”As to the merits of his point about the polling in 2010 Senate   race, it’s true that most pollsters got that race wrong. But not   all. In the interest of giving credit where it’s due, the polling   outfit that got it right was the Suffolk University Political   Research Center,” Cannon said. ’ ”   RealClearPolitics was the subject of Reid’s ire on Thursday, but   the outlet is far from the only target of Reid’s scorn this   election cycle. ” ’   Last month, the majority leader lashed out at CNN reporter Manu   Raju after he asked Reid why Hillary Clinton appeared to be   slipping in many state and national polls. ’ ’   ”You keep going back to your numbers. They’’re not fair, they’’re   not reliable,” Reid said. ’ ’   ”I don’’t buy your silliness, with your $500 polls you go out and   buy overnight,” he added. ”I don’’t believe them, they’’re not   right, they’’re incorrect. You only do it to generate some   news.” ’