’  ’ ”   The chair of the Republican National Committee on Friday issued   an extraordinary rebuke of its party’s presidential nominee 31   days before the election, after a  of Donald Trump making vulgar comments   about women. ” ’   ”No woman should ever be described in these terms or talked about   in this manner. Ever,” RNC Chairman Reince Priebus said in a   statement. ’ ’   In the video,  on Friday, Trump discussed   trying to ”   ” a married woman and wanting to kiss  he was about to appear with on ”Days of Our   Lives.” ’ ’   ”And when you’’re a star they let you do it,” Trump continued.   ”You can do anything. . .. Grab them by the    . You can do   anything.” ’ ’   He had married his third wife, Melania, months before the   incident. ’ ’   A  also denounced Trump   for the video. ’ ’   ”Hitting on married women? Condoning assault?” tweeted Mitt   Romney, the GOP’’s previous presidential nominee and former   governor of Massachussetts. ”Such vile degradations demean our   wives and daughters and corrupt America’’s face to the world.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tHitting on married women? Condoning assault? Such vile degradations demean our wives and daughters and corrupt America’s face to the world. ’t’t” ’   Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who ran against Trump in the GOP primary,   said the video was ”indefensible.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tMake no mistake the comments were wrong and offensive. They are indefensible. ’t’t’ ’   ”America deserves far better than@realDonaldTrump,” Sen. Jeff   Flake of Arizona . ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tAmerica deserves far better than  ’ ’   And Sen. Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, who has  called the   comments ”totally inappropriate and offensive.” ’ ’   Earlier in the week, Ayotte said she would call Trump a ”role   model” during a debate, and then later said she ”misspoke.”   Priebus defended Trump at the time, . ’ ’   Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, who also faced Trump in the GOP   primary, called his comments ”reprehensible.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tAs the grandfather of two precious girls, I find that no apology can excuse away Donald Trump’s reprehensible comments degrading women. ’t’t” ’   Bush’’s cousin,  with Trump, and also made   inappropriate comments. He apologized for his behavior, saying he   was ”younger, less mature, and acted foolishly in playing along.” ’ ’   Trump  as well, calling the   conversation ”locker room banter” that ”took place many years   ago.” ’