’  ’ ’   I recently tracked down and read William Bolitho’’s ”,” an      bestseller from   1929 that’’s become scarce in the wake of . ’ ”   The book spotlights a dirty dozen of historical characters who   rebelled against convention in some form (with occasionally   disastrous results). Bolitho’s renderings of this rogue’s gallery   of figures is historically problematic in parts, but it   still makes for an interesting read  —   one that reveals quite a   lot about the author’s ideas about success and greatness. ” ’   The best chapter shone the spotlight on a young patrician from   ancient Rome named Lucius Sergius Catilina  —   commonly called   Catiline. In his typical exuberant fashion, Bolitho dubs Catiline   ”one of the most interesting possibilities in the history of the   world.” ’ ”   The author kicks off the character sketch with some notes on   background (describing Rome as a gilded, corrupt city and   comparing its trajectory to that of the US  —   according to   Bolitho, by 2029, we’ll very closely resemble the ancient   empire). He calls Catiline a figure that could arise in any   century  —   a patrician on the verge of being ousted from Rome’s   elite due to financial ruin. ” ”   Catiline also had more than a few skeletons in his closet, which   is impressive, considering this was a time before closets were   even invented. He’d messed up his tenure as governor of Africa   (the Roman province, not the entire continent); allegedly   murdered his   ; viciously persecuted rivals during a   coup; and seduced a Vestal Virgin who just happened to be the      of the consul Marcus Tullius Cicero . .. spoiler   alert: He’s going to come up again later. ” ’   At a certain point, drowning in debt and reeling from his mess of   a life, Catiline began plotting a ”blood of night and fire” to   kill Cicero, take over Rome, and abolish all debt. Bolitho   characterizes the scheme as ”. .. a sinister drollery, the simple   delight of stirring up great crowds to die and kill.” ’ ”   However, crushing, insurmountable debt was a huge issue for many   Romans. Whatever his motives (ulterior, pure, or otherwise)   Catiline’s cause proved popular amongst poor people and veterans   in particular. ” ’  ’ ’   The plan crumbled when a patrician woman named Fulvia became   aware of the plot and warned Cicero of his impending   assassination. After rounding up a number of conspirators, Cicero   showed up at the Senate and was surprised to find Catiline there,   too. ’ ’   Cicero proceeded to deliver a ”pitiless and unwavering” speech   denouncing Catiline and the conspiracy. It got so scathing that   all of the other senators began sliding away from Catiline, until   he was all alone on one side of the room. Exposed, the   conspirator fled Rome and led a hasty battle against the   Republic’’s forces. Catiline died in the fighting and the   conspiracy was squashed. ’ ’   Bolitho describes the young Roman aristocrat’’s adventure as ”one   of the most surprising of all,” as he did not have much to gain   considering the unlikelihood of the plot’’s success. This chapter   provides an interesting counterpoint to some of the more   positive, jovial depictions of adventurers elsewhere in the book. ’ ’   Catiline loathed the Roman system and promised change, but lacked   the temperament, planning skills, and ability to carry out his   idea. Once the plot was unveiled, he rushed into a hopeless   battle and only succeeded at getting himself and many of his   followers slaughtered. ’ ’   Regardless of his true motives, Catiline represents the darker   side of adventuring and innovation. Fresh, new ideas can go very   wrong and execution can be more important than ideas themselves. ’