’  ’ ’   Are there more damaging tapes of Donald Trump making lewd   remarks? ’ ’   The rumor mill hit a fever pitch over the weekend as the   Republican presidential nominee faced an onslaught of backlash   for a leaked recording of   him ’ ’  ’ ’   Late on Saturday, a producer from the first two seasons of NBC’’s   ”The Apprentice,” the show Trump famously hosted,  when it   comes to the trumptapes there are far   worse. justthebegininng.” ’ ’   Fox News host Geraldo Rivera also chimed in on Sunday, saying   that he uncovered more ”embarrassing” remarks Trump made with him   during past interviews. ’ ’’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’surprised” similar stories to Friday’’s   leak in The Washington Post haven’’t happened. ’ ’   The source said the Manhattan billionaire ”talked like that all   the time.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”If a $5 million ’’leak fee’’ is what stands between truth and   total Trump implosion, sign me up,” David Brock, the founder of   American Bridge and a leading Clinton ally, . ’ ’   Another source told BuzzFeed that Mark Burnett, the producer of   ”The Apprentice,” is backing Trump and has threatened staffers   with legal action should they decide to leak additional   material.   ’ ’   Friday’’s shocking leaked recording of Trump, which was   picked up by a hot mic and  on Friday, came from an interaction between Trump   and television personality Billy Bush in 2005. In addition to his   comments about grabbing women ”by the   ” Trump made a litany   of other sexually suggestive remarks. ’ ’   Almost immediately, Trump came under fire from those on both   sides of the aisle  —   as many top Republicans either strongly   condemned the comments or unendorsed the Manhattan billionaire   altogether. ’ ”   Just a short time before the start of Sunday night’s debate,   Trump held a press conference with three women who accused former   President Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct, and one woman who   was a victim in a rape case in which the former secretary of   state defended the accused. It was viewed as an attempt to   move the conversation away from the latest tapes and back onto   the Democratic nominee. ”