’   Rudy Giuliani was briefly stumped Sunday morning on “Meet the   Press” when host Chuck Todd confronted him with a devastating   line of questioning. ’ ’   The former New York City mayor tried pivoting away from  Donald Trump   made about women by discussing  Hillary   Clinton gave to Wall Street bankers. ’ ”   “He’s not, one thing he’s not is what came across in WikiLeaks,   and that is two people,” Giuliani said. “Hillary Clinton actually   specifically described that she’s two different people, to the   financial people who were giving her millions of dollars, she’s   on their side and she wants to be a big part of the government.   But she tells them she has to pretend to everybody else that she   isn’t. ” ” ’ ’ ’This moment on  is really something. Just watch ’ ’   Todd then fired a brutal question to the Trump surrogate. ’ ”   “If you believe that Hillary Clinton says one thing in private   and that means what she really is is what she is in private,   should we assume what Donald Trump did in that Access Hollywood   buzz is really what Donald Trump is like in private?” the NBC   anchor asked. “I mean, that’s what you’re implying here with   Hillary Clinton. ” ” ’’ ’   Giuliani was left briefly stumped before saying that “the reality   is that in both cases, both people have things in their personal   lives that maybe if they could redo it, they would do it   differently. ” ’ ’   “And the reality is that this is a situation in which neither   side should throw stones because both sides have sinned,” he   added. ’ ’   The Washington Post on Friday  in which   Trump boasted about kissing and groping women. At the time, Trump   said he could ”grab” women ”by the    ” because ”when you’re a   star, they let you do it.” ’ ’   Trump  in a video   published just after midnight on Saturday, but also signaled he’d   fight back attacks by pointing to former President Bill Clinton’s   history with women. ’ ”   An avalanche of prominent Republicans, including House Speaker   Paul Ryan and Priebus,  Trump’s comments. Trump’s   running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence,  and could not   defend the hot mic remarks. ” ’   Some Republicans, including No. 3 Senate Republican John Thune of   South Dakota, went as far as to call on the billionaire to step   down as the nominee and hand the ticket over to Pence. Trump   tweeted Saturday that he would ”never” drop out of the race. ’