’  ’ ’   The war on the drug trade that Philippine President Rodrigo   Duterte kicked off when he took office this summer has killed    since June 30, the   majority of them slain by unknown killers. ’ ’   During that time, Duterte has achieved   approval   ratings. ’ ’   After the first three months of his presidency, his +64 net   approval rating is the   at that point in any   Philippine presidency since 1986,  to a   survey   conducted   polling group Social Weather Stations. ’ ’   Another survey conducted in October found that  supported his drug   crackdown, even if most of them thought it was important to   arrest suspects alive. ’ ’   All of this comes despite the considerable criticism he has   received from countries and organizations around the   world for his blunt, often offensive talk, including    and   making  between his drug   war and the Holocaust.  ’ ”   His tirades have even imperiled some of the Philippines’  and sent    the country’s economy. ” ’  ’ ”   Duterte’s popularity has come a long way. Prior to the May   presidential election, in which he won  in the   race, he   had one of the lowest trust ratings. ” ’   He has won over Filipinos for a number of reasons. ’ ’   He surged to victory in the polls in May ”as a     outsider who astutely tapped into the     sentiment of the Philippine electorate,” Richard Javad Heydarian,   a political science professor at  ’ ’  ’ ’matter little so long as he continues to be   seen publicly as the antidote to the country’’s overwhelmed legal   system, sclerotic public institutions and corrupt elites,”   Stratfor  in late August. ’ ’   But Duterte has encountered disapproval from some     sectors. ’ ’   Fidel Ramos, Philippine president from 1992 to 1998 and the    to secure a higher rating   in his first three months than Duterte,  the current Philippine leader in    published on October 8.  ’ ’   ”In the overall assessment by this writer, we find our team   Philippines losing in the first 100 days of DU30’’s administration    —   and losing badly,” Ramos  using Duterte’’s nickname, DU30. ”This   is a huge disappointment and   to many of us.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Earlier this week, the Senate  a motion to condemn ”in the strongest   possible terms” the ”illegal” plan by the House of   Representatives to show that alleged sex tape. ’ ”   Duterte’s aggressive drug war has also  within the Philippine Catholic   Church, an influential institution inMore than a dozen clergymen  Reuters that they were unsure and   apprehensive about taking a stand against the bloodshed of   Duterte’s drug war, considering the overwhelming popularity of   the campaign. ” ’    ’ ’   ”There is a lot of fear because the way people have been killed   is   so anyone could become a target,” Felloni   said. ’ ’   Others within the church are more ambivalent. ”Are the means   unnecessarily illegitimate?”  Father Joel Tabora, a Jesuit priest in   Duterte’’s home turf of Davao. ”People are dying, yes, but on the   other hand, millions of people are being helped,” he went on. ’ ’  ’ ”   Public backing for Duterte’s bloody campaign has also likely put   a chill on members of the church, which has  two Philippine presidents.  ” ’   ”The Church has to back off . .. We voted for our president   because he promised to stop drugs,” Jenny Calma, a      mother of two,  Reuters. ”The Church will lose” if it   confronts Duterte over the   killings, she said. ’ ’   Though Duterte appears unbowed by the backlash to his policies,   recent developments suggest it might get harder politically   for him to continue them. ’ ’   His railing against foreign powers like the US and China, as well   as his habit of naming Filipinos as criminals without offering   evidence, . And his    and  may lead him to an awkward   position where abandoning the alliance with the former or   fully embracing the later . ’ ”   In the near term, those economic and geopolitical dynamics don’t   appear to have dragged on Duterte, nor do they appear to have   given pause to the officials enforcing his hardline stance   against the drug trade. ” ’   ”I have to encourage them to do our job,” Philippine police chief   Ronald Dela Rosa  Reuters during a recent trip to a   regional police headquarters on Luzon. ”We are at war.” ’