Peter Vaughan, a British character actor who often played rogues early in his career but was more familiar to recent audiences as a wise, blind mentor on the HBO fantasy series “Game of Thrones,” died on Tuesday. He was 93. His death was confirmed by the office of his agent, Sally   which did not say where he died.   and imposing, Mr. Vaughan was a regular in films and on British television for more than 50 years, long before taking the part of Maester Aemon Targaryen on “Game of Thrones,” adapted from George R. R. Martin’s novels. As Maester Aemon, he forsakes his royal heritage, giving up the chance to rule the seven kingdoms of Westeros to serve in the Night’s Watch, a group of warriors and criminals tasked with defending a colossal wall to protect lands to the south from invaders from the north. Maester Aemon was a fatherly figure to Jon Snow, who becomes the Watch’s leader, and unlike many in Mr. Martin’s treacherous, violent world, Maester Aemon dies of old age in Season 5, in 2015. Mr. Vaughan also played a manipulative British spy in “The Naked Runner” (1967) with Frank Sinatra one of the English villagers who harass Dustin Hoffman and Susan George in Sam Peckinpah’s “Straw Dogs” (1971) and a bureaucrat in Terry Gilliam’s dystopian satire “Brazil” (1985) which starred Jonathan Pryce and featured Robert De Niro. He played other elderly figures, including Anthony Hopkins’s ailing father in James Ivory’s film adaptation of Kazuo Ishiguro’s “The Remains of the Day” (1993) and a cantankerous old man in the farce “Death at a Funeral” (2007) which also featured his “Game of Thrones”   Peter Dinklage. He was born Peter Olm on April 4, 1923, in Wem, Shropshire, England. He joined a repertory company at 16, but was drafted into the military in 1942. He continued his stage acting career in England after the war and during the 1950s met and married the actress Billie Whitelaw, who became known for her work with Samuel Beckett. They divorced in the 1960s. On television he appeared in several BBC   based on Charles Dickens novels, including “Oliver Twist” (1962) and “Bleak House” (1985) and in a television adaptation of Arthur Miller’s “The Crucible” in 1980. He went on to appear in the 1996 film version of that play, which starred Winona Ryder and Daniel  . Mr. Vaughan later married the actress Lillias Walker, who survives him. Other survivors include a son, David two stepdaughters, Alex and Vikki and four grandchildren. Mr. Vaughan, whose last credited television role was as Maester Aemon, said he was grateful that he had chosen a profession that allowed him to work well into old age. “It’s not the sort of career where you have to retire at a given age,” he told Shropshire magazine in 2007. “I compare it to being a painter or a professional musician  —   as long as you’re fit and healthy to carry on, and the offers come in, you just keep going. ”