’  ’ ’   Three women accused Donald Trump of making unwanted sexual   advances on them in reports published on Wednesday, just days   after a salacious leaked tape showed Donald Trump bragging in   2005 about groping women under his celebrity status. ’ ”   The allegations, made by Jessica Leeds and Rachel Crooks in    and Mindy McGillivray in    came after Trump denied   ever making unwanted advances when asked during Sunday’s   presidential debate. ” ’   Leeds told The Times she was on a plane next to Trump, who   she had not yet met, in the early 1980s when the     tycoon lifted her armrest and began touching her. She   alleged that he grabbed her breasts and tried to put his   hand up her skirt. ’ ’   ”He was like an octopus,” she told The Times. ”His hands were   everywhere. . .. It was an assault.” ’ ’   Leeds said she fled to the back of the plane, but never made   a formal complaint. Instead she spoke with four individuals   who The Times also interviewed to corroborate the claims. ’ ’’ ’   The second woman, Crooks, said her incident occurred in 2005  —     the same year as the damning leaked ”Access Hollywood” tape   was recorded. ’ ’   Crooks, 22 at the time, said Trump began kissing her on the mouth   after holding on to an extended handshake. ’ ’   ”It was so inappropriate,” she told The Times. ”I was so   upset that he thought I was so insignificant that he could do   that.” ’ ’   McGillivray alleged to the Palm Beach Post that Trump   grabbed her rear in 2003. ’ ’   ”Donald just grabbed my ass!” she told a photographer with her at   Trump’’s    resort. ’ ’   All three women had not previously come forward with their   stories, but did so after Trump said in Sunday night’’s   presidential debate that his words from the 2005 leaked tape were   ”just words” and ”locker room talk.” ’ ’   ”Nobody has more respect for women than I do,” Trump said, later   adding that he did not do the things he discussed on the tape. ’ ’   In that tape, where he was talking to NBC’’s Billy Bush aboard an   ”Access Hollywood” tour bus, Trump bragged about being able to   ”grab” women ”by the    ” because ”when you’’re a star they let   you do it.” ’ ’   The tape,  on Friday, was   recorded after Trump had married his third wife, Melania,   according to the publication. ’ ’   Trump is also heard making a litany of crude sexual remarks about   women in the tape. ’ ’   Responding to the Times story, Trump insisted the stories were   false. ’ ’   ”None of this ever took place,” he told the Times, threatening to   sue the newspaper. ’ ’   ”You are a disgusting human being,” he added to the   reporter. ’ ’   He repeated his assertion that he never groped women as he   described in the tape. ’ ’   ”I don’t do it,” Trump said. ”I don’t do it. It was locker   room talk.” ’ ’   Soon after the article was published, Trump’’s campaign   discredited the entire report as ”fiction.” ’ ’   ”This entire article is fiction, and for the New York Times to   launch a completely false, coordinated character assassination   against Mr. Trump on a topic like this is dangerous,” Trump’’s   senior communications adviser Jason Miller said. ”To reach back   decades in an attempt to smear Mr. Trump trivializes sexual   assault, and it sets a new low for where the media is willing to   go in its efforts to determine this election.” ’ ’   He called it ”a sad day for the Times.” ’ ’   ”It is absurd to think that one of the most recognizable business   leaders on the planet with a strong record of empowering women in   his companies would do the things alleged in this story, and for   this to only become public decades later in the final month of a   campaign for president should say it all,” Miller wrote. ’ ’   Trump and his campaign have not yet responded to the Palm   Beach Post story. ’