’  ’ ”   Tesla has a mysterious,  coming on October 17. We   have have no real idea what’s in store, but I made an educated   guess: the Model Y prototype  —   a crossover SUV version of the the   Model 3   sedan that’s due to arrive late next year. ” ”   But some other ideas are out there: a major update to Autopilot,   Tesla’s    system; some new infotainment tech;   improved battery packs. ” ’   But what about this one: Tesla will start a bank. ’ ’   Tesla doesn’’t currently engage in what’’s called in the   industry ”captive lending.” Most other major automaker do. ’ ’   This means that when you go to a dealership to buy or lease a   vehicle, the automaker that the dealer is franchised by can   arrange your financing. (Dealers can also seek financing from   regular banks that do auto lending.) ’ ”   This is a wonderful business. I often say that dealers don’t sell   cars  —   they sell car loans. This is because a   arm   of an automaker can borrow funds at a very low rate, then turn   around and write loans at a higher rate, collecting the   difference.  ” ’   In the process, nobody had to bolt or weld anything. ’ ’   (Captive lenders are really banks in the traditional sense. They   use the credit markets to obtain funding, rather than taking   deposits from customers.) ’ ’   At the moment, Tesla works with two bank partners to arrange   loans on its rather expensive vehicles. From what I hear  —   and I   ask Tesla about this often  —   the automaker is happy with this   setup. ’ ”   But as it moves toward production of half a million vehicles per   year  —   up from what should be about 90, 000 this year  —   it doesn’t   make sense for Tesla to leave those potential loan profits on the   table.  ” ”   Another factor is that even though the Model 3, for which there   are currently around 375, 000 advance orders, will be Tesla’s   cheapest car at $35, 000 (before tax credits) many buyers will be   classic financing customers. They won’t have $35, 000 in pocket   lying around.  ” ’   And already this year,    leading the company to move those customers toward leasing.   Obviously, it would be better   if Tesla could make these   determinations on its own. ’ ’   In the dealership model, buyers can arrange outside financing and   come in with their loan already effectively in place. But Tesla   wants to do direct sales, so having ”Tesla Financial” would   promote a more seamless process as the company really starts to   grow sales. What’’s more, it’’s not like financial services are   completely foreign to Musk. After all, he was a   of   PayPal.  ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tTesla product unveiling on the 17th (unexpected by most) followed by   on the 28th’t’t’ ’   In his tweet this past weekend, Musk said a ”product” would be   unveiled on Oct. 17. You could call a bank a ”product,” so I’’m   going to conjecture that he’’s being clever. But okay, he probably   won’’t pull the sheet off a bank. Even if he should, one of these   days. ’