’  ’ ’   A YouTube video  to the subreddit ”Unsolved Mysteries” is drawing   widespread attention as some think it includes footage of Kayla   Berg, an Antigo, Wisconsin, native who went missing at age 15 in   2009. The Antigo Police Department is now investigating the video   as a potential lead in the    case. ’ ’   The Reddit user    started the thread with a post titled ”Is this a video of Kayla   Berg?” The user then described some key details of the case of   the missing teen before linking to an  that originally   reposted the YouTube video with some screengrabs and analysis. ’ ”   It’s unclear whether the Imgur thread catalyzed the   investigation. The Antigo Police Department announced on Facebook   that it was investigating the video on Monday, about one hour   before the Reddit post. The Reddit post linked to the Imgur   thread, timestamped one day ago. ” ’ ’ ’   The YouTube user ”Hi Walter! It’’s me Patrick!” first posted the   video, titled ”Hi Walter! I got a new gf today!” to YouTube in   October 2009  —   two months after Berg was last seen. It features a   man, presumably named Patrick, speaking to his friend, Walter,   about a girl he claims to have met that day at the mall. ’ ’   ”Hi, Walter. I was at the mall today, and guess what happened?”   the man begins in an excited voice. He describes meeting the   ”most wonderful girl,” going shopping with her, and buying her   jewelry. ’ ’   ”She picked out the most amazing necklace I’’ve ever seen, and I   know she wanted me to buy it for her because she kept on looking   at me and kept on giving me that look. You know the look,” the   man continues. ’ ’   He then describes leaving the mall and bringing the girl back to   his place. ’ ’   ”I know she hates cameras, Walter, but I’’m going to show you her   anyway. You ready?” he asks before the video cuts to a shot of   the man in what looks like a basement. ’ ’   He walks over to a room in the basement and opens the door,   revealing a girl who is bound and on her knees, crying, and   making muffled yells. At one point, it  as if the girl says, ”Why   are you doing this?” When the man enters the room and closes the   door, the video abruptly ends. ’ ’   The video has since been  for violating its ”policy on harassment and   bullying.” ’ ”   The video generated intense interest on the subreddit it was   posted on, as users speculated about the video’s authenticity and   its potential link to Berg’s disappearance. ” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’    ’ ’   Numerous users also raised the possibility that the girl in the   video was an actress named Sarah Bull. In a  Bull said visitors to her YouTube   channel harassed her and ”bombarded” her with questions about   whether she was the girl in the video. ’ ’   ”I am not the girl in this video,” she said. ’ ’   Berg was  in Wausau, Wisconsin, on August 11, 2009, and was    six days later, on August 17. ’ ”   The Antigo Police Department told Business Insider it was   investigating the video because of the date it was posted  —     exactly two months after the day Berg was last seen  —   and the   girl’s resemblance to Berg. ” ’   It asks that any parties with information pertaining to the   investigation call the Antigo Police Department at (715)    . ’