’  ’ ’   Americans are turning away from orange juice. ’ ’   The drink was considered a breakfast staple for decades, and has   long been featured prominently in nearly every cereal ad as part   of a ”complete breakfast.”  ’ ”   But Americans’ consumption of orange juice has been plunging   in recent years, as awareness grows over the scant nutritional   value of the drink. ” ’   Nutritionally, orange juice isn’’t much better for you than a   glass of soda or any other sweetened beverage,  in a post calling it the ”biggest con of your   life.”  ’ ”   A   glass of orange juice contains 153 calories, 34 grams   of carbohydrates, 27 grams of sugar, and 2. 4 grams of protein.   That’s the same amount of carbohydrates and almost as much sugar   as a bag of M&M’s, as Brodwin points out. ” ’   That’’s why nutrition experts and health bloggers have been   railing against orange juice in recent years. When you Google   ”orange juice good for you,” the top results include   posts titled ”” and ”” ’ ”   Perhaps that’s why sales of the juice are down 13% in the past   four years, according to data from Nielsen. ” ’  ’ ’   Frozen orange juice has experienced the biggest drop in sales,   falling 39% to $98 million since 2012, compared to a 10%   drop to $3. 1 billion for refrigerated orange juice in the   same period. ’ ’   Florida, which is the top producer of oranges used for juice in   the US, is on track for the fifth straight season of declines in   orange output  —   representing the worst decline in more than a   century, according to . ’ ’   On top of falling demand, orange producers have also been   battling a bacterial disease that has been wiping out their   groves. ’ ’   As growers leave the business,   plants have also   been shutting down. ’ ’   Florida once had more than four dozen processing plants but now   has only seven, according to . ’ ’   ”You’’re witnessing   decisions where   multigenerational family citrus growers have reached a point   where their risk tolerance isn’’t there to continue,” Adam Putnam,   the commissioner of the Florida Agriculture Department and   Consumer Services, told The Journal. ’ ”   Sales of orange juice are declining at a time when Americans’   breakfast consumption is actually on the rise. ” ’   Breakfast consumption is expected to grow faster than the US   population over the next few years, and more and more Americans   are choosing to eat breakfast away from home, according to NPD   Group. ’ ’   Thanks to the rise of the juicing trend, however, a wide array of   juices and smoothies are available as alternatives to orange   juice. ’