’  ’ ’     lawyer Gloria Allred called a press conference on   Friday announcing her decision to represent a former ”Apprentice”   contestant who alleges that Donald Trump sexually accosted her at   a hotel in 2007. ’ ’   Allred told reporters that Summer Zervos, a contestant in season   five of ”The Apprentice” TV show, met with Trump in 2007 at the   Beverly Hills Hotel to discuss business after she lost the   contest. ’ ’   But instead of job opportunities, Trump greeted her with a   kiss on the mouth, touched her breast, and led her into his   bedroom, she said. ’ ’   ”She got the Donald all over her” instead of a job, Allred said. ’ ’   Zervos, who contacted Allred to represent her and said she is not   seeking litigation, gave her own statement describing her   experience with Trump. She said Trump treated her like ”an   object” and that after  during the second presidential debate, she   felt she ”had to speak out” about his behavior. ’ ’   She told reporters that she felt she had been ”penalized for not   sleeping with him” when she was looking for job opportunities   with his company in 2007. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I vaguely remember Ms. Zervos as one of the many contestants on   ’’The Apprentice’’ over the years. To be clear, I never met her at   a hotel or greeted her inappropriately a decade ago. That is not   who I am as a person, and it is not how I’ve conducted my life.   In fact, Ms. Zervos continued to contact me for help, emailing my   office on April 14th of this year asking that I visit her   restaurant in California,” Trump said as part of the statement. ’ ’   He continued: ’ ’  ’ ”   Zervos, who says she is a Republican, is one of several women   this week to come forward accusing Trump of inappropriate sexual   conduct. Trump has categorically denied the accusations and   launched attacks on the women making them. He has not commented   specifically on Zervos’ allegations. ” ’   He, his campaign, and his supporters have said that the   accusations are part of a vast conspiracy trying to take him   down. And they have also publicly invoked skepticism over the   women’’s decisions to come forward now, years after the alleged   incidents took place. Allred, who says ”many other women” have   approached her about their own experiences with Trump, countered   that argument in the press conference. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Just before the press conference,  and said Donald   Trump had approached her in a New York City nightclub decades   ago. The woman, Kristin Anderson, alleged Trump put his hand up   her skirt in a   sexually aggressive manner. ’