’  ’ ’   Three men were arrested on Friday in connection with a plot to   bomb a Kansas apartment complex and mosque, federal officials   said ’ ’   Curtis Allen, Gavin Wright, and Patrick Stein face a charge of   conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction to detonate bombs   at an apartment complex in Garden City, Kansas, where Somali   immigrants live and worship, a statement from the US Justice   Department said. ’ ’   ”The attack was planned for the day after election day,” US   Attorney Tom Beall said in a   press conference. ’ ’   The men planned to release a manifesto they hoped would “wake   people up,” Beall said. The three men were part of a militia that   referred to itself as the Crusaders, investigators said. ’ ’   The Council on   Relations responded to the   charges, asking the federal government to step up protections for   mosques. ’ ’’ ’   ”Given this alleged plan to attack a Kansas mosque, the two other   hate incidents reported today against Islamic institutions in   Michigan and New Jersey, and the overall spike in     incidents nationwide, state and federal authorities should offer     protection to local communities,” executive director,   Nihad Awad, said in an emailed statement to Business Insider. ’ ’   ”We ask our nation’’s political leaders, and particularly   political candidates, to reject the growing Islamophobia in our   nation,” he added. ’ ’   The FBI had been tracking the men since February as part of an     investigation that revealed a ”hidden culture of   hatred and violence,” Beall said. ’ ’   The men’s plot appeared to be premeditated as they conducted   surveillance on potential targets and stockpiled firearms and   ammunition, federal officials said. ’ ’   If convicted of the terror plot, the suspects could face a   maximum sentence of life in prison.  ’ ’   Revelations of the possible attack come amid a   heated presidential election in which Republican candidate Donald   Trump has made incendiary remarks about immigrants, and has vowed   to impose a  from entering the US.  ’ ’   Earlier this year a  found a total of 78 violent   attacks occurred at mosques in 2015  —   up from 34 in   2014. The organization has been tracking the incidents   since 2009 and said the number of attacks in 2016 could make   it  on record.  ’ ’     Curtis Allen and Gavin Wright, both 49, and of Liberal, Kansas,     and Patrick Eugene Stein, 47, of Wright, Kansas, appeared in     federal court to face a charge of conspiring to use a weapon of     mass destruction (explosives) in connection with their plot to     detonate bombs at an apartment complex in Garden City, Kansas     where Somali immigrants live and worship.   ’ ’     The announcement was made by Assistant Attorney General for     National Security John P. Carlin and Acting U. S. Attorney Tom     Beall of the District of Kansas.   ’ ’     “According to the complaint, these three defendants conspired     to conduct a bombing attack against an apartment complex     occupied by men, women and children in the Garden City, Kansas     community,” said Assistant Attorney General Carlin. “Protecting     our nation from such attacks, whether they are rooted in     domestic or international terrorism, is our highest priority. ”   ’ ’     “These charges are based on eight months of investigation by     the FBI that is alleged to have taken the investigators deep     into a hidden culture of hatred and violence,” said Acting U. S.     Attorney Beall. “Many Kansans may find it as startling as I do     that such things could happen here. ”   ’ ’     The complaint alleges that since February the FBI has been     investigating the defendants’ activities, including their plans     to carry out a violent attack against Muslims in southwestern     Kansas. The defendants were key members of a militia group that     referred to itself as the Crusaders. A confidential source     attended meetings of the group and provided the FBI with     information about the defendants’ activities.   ’ ’     The criminal complaint alleges that the men conducted     surveillance to identify potential targets, stockpiled     firearms, ammunition and explosive components, and planned to     issue a manifesto in conjunction with the planned bombing. The     attack, the defendants said, would be intended to “wake people     up. ”   ’ ’     After considering possible targets, the defendants decided to     conduct the attack on a Garden City, Kansas apartment complex     that houses a mosque and a large number of members of the     Somali community. They discussed obtaining four vehicles,     filling them with explosives and parking them at the four     corners of the apartment complex to create a large explosion.   ’ ’     On Oct. 12, Stein met with an undercover FBI employee in rural     Finney County, Kansas. After examining and test firing     automatic weapons, Stein took the source to see the apartment     building that the defendants were targeting in Garden City,     Kansas. Stein said he would provide ammonium nitrate for the     bomb and contribute $200 to $300 for other materials.   ’ ’     Stein also talked with the undercover employee about defendant     Allen’s arrest in a domestic violence case in Liberal, Kansas     the previous day, Oct. 11. Stein said he was concerned that     Allen’s girlfriend would give the Liberal Police Department in     Kansas information about the defendants’ plans.   ’ ’     If convicted, the defendants face a maximum sentence of life in     federal prison.   ’ ’     A criminal complaint is merely an allegation, and the defendant     is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a     reasonable doubt in a court of law. The maximum statutory     sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for     informational purposes. If convicted of any offense, the     sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the court     based on the advisory Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory     factors.   ’ ’     Investigating agencies included the FBI, the Liberal Police     Department, the Seward County Sheriff’s Office, the Ford County     Sheriff’s Office, the Garden City Police Department, the Dodge     City Police Department, the Finney County Sheriff’s Office, and     Kansas Highway Patrol, and the Kansas Bureau of Investigation.     Assistant U. S. Attorney Tony Mattivi for the District of Kansas     and Counterterrorism Section Trial Attorney David Cora are     prosecuting this case.   ’