’  ’ ’   In their line of duty, US Transportation Security Administration   officers, or TSOs,    from Batarangs and tomahawks to stun guns disguised as everyday   items like lipstick, cigarettes, and cell phones. ’ ”   But perhaps the oddest items people pass through TSA screening   are the ones they’ve made to look threatening. ” ’   The TSA considers improvised explosive devices, or IEDs, the   ”main threat” and one of the most important things that officers   have to find when screening passengers and baggage. IEDs are   particularly hard to find because they could be made from some of   the most common items, even toilet paper. ’ ’   ”An IED is limited only by the imagination of the bomber and the   materials readily at hand,” Bill Morgan, an explosives specialist   and TSA Academy instructor, told his class of new TSA recruits   when we visited the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in   Glynco, Georgia, in July. ’ ”   Historically, the TSA doesn’t have the best track record for   catching threats. During a number of covert audits on passenger   and   operations last year,  banned weapons in 67   of 70 tests at dozens of airport checkpoints around the country,   prompting, among other things, a complete overhaul of . ” ’’ ’   And apparently a few passengers have decided to take it upon   themselves to keep the TSA on its toes. ’ ’   ”One of the weirdest things I’’ve ever experienced on the job is   just people trying to package things in a way to see if we can   actually catch it,” said Jason Pockett, a TSA Academy instructor   who joined the agency in 2010 as a TSO, during Business Insider’’s   visit to FLETC in July. ’ ”   Pockett said he’s seen all sorts of strange configurations, like   batteries taped to different types of Tupperware containers. ” ’   ”When it comes through, it just doesn’’t look right. It’’s got an   unusual look to it,” he said. ’ ”   In 2015,  its officers screened more than 708 million   passengers, 1. 6 billion   bags, and 432 million checked   bags. So it’s not all that surprising that TSOs are privy to some   fairly odd behavior. ” ’   Pockett said he’’s also seen some pretty gross  —   albeit   ingenious  —   attempts at dissuading TSOs from conducting   screenings. ”We’’ve had individuals put sensitive items like dirty   laundry in their bags just so we won’’t go in there,” he said. ’ ’   ”Every day, honestly, is a different experience,” he said. ’ ’Get updates in your inbox.’ ’Subscribe to Instant MBA and never miss an update!’