’  ’ ”   Henrik Fisker’s first stab at an electric car went up in flames,   literally. ” ’   His company, Fisker Automotive, was the force behind an electric   hybrid called the Fisker Karma in 2012. The $100, 000 car had a   host of battery issues that caused the automaker and its battery   supplier, A123 Systems, to recall more than 600 Karmas,    at the time. ’ ’   Separately, the Karma was known to  which was said to be   caused by the engine compartment rather than the battery. Fisker   Automotive went bankrupt in 2011. ’ ’   But, as  by Bloomberg, Fisker is back   and working on an electric car under the newly minted Fisker Inc.   that will be revealed in 2017. Fisker is currently producing his   supercar, the  though VLF automotive. He is best known as the   automotive designer behind iconic cars like the BMW Z8 and   Aston Martin DB9. ’ ’   Fisker has promised his new electric car will have a range   exceeding 400 miles  —   which would be huge, considering the   longest range currently belongs to the   version of the   Model S, which gets 315 miles on a single charge. ’ ’   We took a closer look at the battery tech Fisker is promising to   use, which he refers to as ”the major leap, the next big step.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Rather than working with conventional   batteries,   Fisker is turning to graphene supercapacitors. ’ ’   Graphene is the thinnest material on Earth and strongest material   known to man.  ’ ’   The energy applications of graphene have been known for   quite some time. In 2010, the Nobel Prize in Physics went   to Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov for    that opened the door for scientists to study its   many applications, like its potential as a battery that   can conduct energy better and charge faster. ’ ’   ”Graphene shows a higher electron mobility, meaning that   electrons can move faster through it. This will, e. g. charge a   battery much faster,” Lucia Gauchia, an assistant professor   of mechanical engineering and energy storage systems at Michigan   Technological University, told Business Insider. ”Graphene is   also lighter and it can present a higher active surface, so that   more charge can be stored.” ’ ’   But what has prevented it from having a   application   has been the high cost associated with producing it. ’ ’   ”The reason we are not using it yet, even though the material is   not a new one, is that there is no mass production for it yet   that can show reasonable cost and scalability,” Gauchia   explained. ’ ’   But Fisker told Business Insider that his battery division,   Fisker Nanotech, is patenting a machine that he claims   can produce as much as 1, 000 kilograms of graphene at a cost   of just 10 cents a gram.  ’ ’   Jack Kavanaugh, the head of Fisker Nanotech, also told Business   Insider the machine could feasibly produce 1, 000 kilograms of   graphene. ’ ’  ’ ’   Kavanaugh hails from Nanotech Energy, a research group   composed of UCLA researchers who specializes in the graphene   supercapacitor Fisker will use in his car. ’ ”   Supercapacitors also store energy like batteries, but the way   they do so allows them to have faster charge times. However,   supercapacitors don’t typically hold as much of a charge as     batteries because they have lower energy densities. ” ’   ”The challenge with using graphene in a supercapacitor in the   past has been that you don’t have the same density and ability to   store as much energy,” Kavanaugh said. ”Well we have solved that   issue with technology we are working on.” ’ ’   Kavanaugh said altering the structure of the graphene has allowed   them to improve the supercapacitor’’s energy density, but didn’’t   elaborate further because the technology is ”unique and   proprietary.” He added the patent for the machine is pending. ’ ’  ’ ”   Overall, Kavanaugh is promising a product that not only holds   more charge and charges faster than lithium ion batteries, but   also has a better cycle life. Improving the cycle life means you   don’t have to swap out the battery for a new one   as frequently as you need to for lithium ion batteries. ” ’   ”This particular technology that we’re working on and are using   for Fisker Nanotech is a hybrid,” Kavanaugh told Business   Insider. ”We have been able to take the best of what   supercapacitors can do and the best of what batteries can do and   are calling it a super battery.” ’ ”   Fisker refers to the company’s new battery tech as a   breakthrough. ” ’   ”Our battery technology is so much better than anything out   there,” Fisker told Business Insider. ”Our battery technology is   the first battery technology that has taken the major leap, the   next big step.” ’ ’   UCLA researchers like Maher   and Richard Kaner  related to graphene   supercapacitors. Both Kaner and   work for Nanotech Energy. ’ ’   Kavanaugh said prototypes of the ”super battery” have already   been made, with new versions of the prototype coming in a few   weeks. He said the plant that will actually produce the   battery will most likely open in January and will be located in   northern California. ’ ”   It’s worth noting that Tesla CEO Elon Musk actually came to   Silicon Valley to  ” ’  ’ ’   Fisker said he plans to reveal the electric car in the latter   half of 2017. ’ ’   Fisker told Business Insider that he first plans to roll out a   luxury vehicle that will most likely be built at VLF   Automotive, the car company Fisker joined in January. That   first luxury electric car will have a limited production run. ’ ’   ”I don’t want to say what kind of car, but it won’t be a   supercar,” he said. ”It will probably be in the price range of   the higher end of the Model S.” ’ ’   Fisker said he will then produce a   electric car   that will be in ”an even lower cost segment of both the [Chevy]   Bolt and the Model 3.” ’ ’   ”We will have the lowest cost electric vehicle in the world,”   he said. ’ ’   Both the initial supercar and   car will boast   ranges greater than 400 miles, Fisker claims.  ’ ’   But Fisker better move quickly because competition in the EV   space is mounting. As mentioned earlier, Tesla currently offers a   Model S that can drive 315 miles on a single charge. By the time   Fisker unveils his electric car, Tesla may have already beaten   that range or gotten closer to it. ’ ’   Additionally, the Chevy Bolt will be the first     electric car with a competitive range of 238 miles when it hits   dealerships by the end of this year. Like Tesla, Chevy will   look to improve that range by the time 2017 rolls around. ’ ’   And that only touches the surface of the competition out there.   Electric car   like  and  are looking for a piece of the pie.   Big name brands like  and  are also looking to roll out   electric vehicles within the next 3 to 5 years. ’ ”   It’s also hard to put too much faith in Fisker’s claims without   seeing the patent application for the technology that can   produce graphene in large scale and improve the energy density of   supercapacitors. ” ”   But Fisker said it’s clear who his biggest competitor will be. ” ’   ”I think it’s pretty clear when you look at the market, when you   look at the premium market, there’s really only one company that   is out there, and it’s Tesla,” he said.  ’