’  ’ ”   Iraqi Prime Minister Haider   announced late Sunday night   the start of the operation to liberate Iraq’s     city, Mosul, from the Islamic State more than two years after it   fell to the terror group. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Conflicting reports have emerged over how fiercely ISIS is   preparing to fight the oncoming offensive. CNN reported on Sunday   that members of ISIS were fleeing the city as Iraqi soldiers   approached, but many experts have speculated that ISIS   is unlikely to go quietly. Mosul is the terror group’s last   stronghold in Iraq, where its territory has shrunk from 40% of   the country at its peak to roughly 10% now.  ” ’   BuzzFeed’’s Mike Giglio, who is on the frontlines, tweeted late   Sunday that there is a ”rumor among soldiers at this Kurdish base   that ISIS just brought 400 fighters to the villages they plan to   try and take tomorrow.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Iraqi commanders inside Fallujah were optimistic about the   offensive’s success in driving the militants out of the city in   June, which fell to ISIS in 2013, for good. And most analysts   agree that the gains made by Iraq’s security forces against ISIS   since last year have been significant. ” ”   But many are also cautiously optimistic at best, due to what   ISIS’ quick retreat might indicate about the group’s shifting   priorities and tactics and the role Shiite militias have played   in liberating the overwhelmingly Sunni city. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   The role that will be played by Iraq’s Popular Mobilization   Forces (Hashid Shaabi)  —   a group of predominantly Shi’ite   militias that has contributed to, rather than eased, the kind of   sectarian tensions that made Mosul susceptible to an ISIS   takeover in the first place  —   is still a wild card that could   undermine any   success against the terror group. ” ’   ”The difficulties in liberating Mosul have as much to do   with politics as with military strategy,”  ’ ’  ’ ”   That’s why a predominantly Sunni unit within Iraq’s much   more capable special forces will need to drive the offensive,   Jaff said, while the Peshmerga and Shi’ite militias remain   well in the background. ” ’   Ultimately, that seems to be the plan  —   though f ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’