’  ’ ’   A man with one hand in his pocket approaches a locked door and   places his other hand on the doorknob. A second later, the   deadbolt clicks open, as if by magic, and he lets himself in. A     burglar casing the house watches this sequence of events   unfold. ’ ’   The next day, after the man has left for work, the burglar   approaches the door and places his hand on it, expecting it to   pop open. Instead, it stays stubbornly locked. It’s not outfitted   with a typical “smart lock,” which uses   or Bluetooth to   open when a paired phone or watch is nearby. It’s not reading his   fingerprint, either. So what’s going on? ’ ’   A similar scenario recently unfolded in the University of   Washington’s Networks and Mobile Systems Lab, where researches   are experimenting with a new technology that sends passcodes   through the human body. The technology uses touchpads and   fingerprint readers to create signals that travel through   skin —  and, unlike wireless broadcasts, the “ ” transmissions   can’t be intercepted over the air. ’ ’   Using their method, a person just needs to be touching a   transmitter —  the fingerprint reader on an iPhone, for example —  when   he or she comes in contact with a receiver. In the doorknob   example, the metal handle is hooked up to a reader that listens   for electromagnetic pulses. A code sent from the iPhone’s   fingerprint reader travels across a layer of particularly   conductive tissue right beneath the outer layer of human skin. It   quickly propagates to every part of the body, so that your entire   epidermis glows, invisibly, with data. (The researchers were able   to detect signals sent from one arm to the opposite leg, and   could accurately read them whether the person was standing,   sitting, or lying down.) When the signal arrives at the doorknob,   the reader makes sure it’s the right passcode and, if it is, it   opens. ’ ’  ’ ’   This same approach could also be used to securely pair wearable   devices —  everything from calorie counters to insulin pumps —  with   their owners and each other. The technique takes advantage of the   fact that most devices give off faint electromagnetic signals   when they’re used normally. Some gadgets, like fingerprint   readers and trackpads, produce particularly reliable signals,   said Vikram Iyer, one of the two lead authors on . ’ ’   Iyer and his colleagues   those electronic devices into   transmitters. For the fingerprint scanners, they rapidly   activated and deactivated them to send a signal pattern through   the skin; for the touchpads, they created patterns simply by   power cycling them —  that is, quickly turning them off and on over   and over again. ’ ’  ’ ’   (The trackpad on an IBM Thinkpad had the fastest transfer rate,   said Mehrdad Hessar, the paper’s other   but the   fingerprint reader on an iPhone 6S sent the most powerful   signal.) ’ ’   If the researchers used custom hardware, they could’ve gotten   speeds that were orders of magnitude faster. So why didn’t they? ’ ’  ’ ’   “Our focus here was trying to find a way we could reuse an   existing device,” said Iyer. “One of the main problems with   adopting this kind of technology into a commercial applications   is that there’s already so much included in a phone. Any device   manufacturer wouldn’t add another radio, because that would take   up power, or space that they could use to make the battery a   little bigger. ” ’ ’   Better to find a way to use a technology that’s already found its   way into most phones —  the fingerprint reader —  rather than reinvent   the wheel. But if device manufacturers like Apple gave developers   more access to the fingerprint readers, beyond the capability to   activate and deactivate them, it would make using them as   transmitters much easier. ’ ’   Avoiding a custom setup also means that   transmission   doesn’t pose any health hazard beyond simply using a phone or a   computer, Hessar said. It’s just using the electromagnetic noise   that’s already being produced by everyday devices in a clever   way. ’ ’   While security is one the main benefits of     transmission —  there’s no airborne signal for a hacker to   intercept —  there is one way to hijack a signal as it’s traveling   across someone’s skin: Just come in contact with it. Multiple   devices touching a body that’s conducting a charge can all read   the signal, raising the possibility that malware on  a   smartwatch could be used to eavesdrop on a passcode as it moves   from limb to limb. ’ ’   But absent a compromised smartwatch or fitness band, coming   touching an object during transmission would be “fairly   conspicuous,” Iyer said, so it’s not much of a worry. ’