’    ’ ’  ’ ’    John Kasich was the last remaining Republican primary challenger   to Donald Trump. ’ ” Since ending his campaign in early May, Kasich has not   followed the same course as fellow   GOP primary   challengers, such as Sens. Marco Rubio of Florida and Ted Cruz of   Texas, in endorsing Trump. Instead, Kasich has expressed his   dismay with the tone of Trump’s presidential venture while   criticizing his policy positions on trade and Russia, to name   just a couple. ” ’ He has strongly condemned the leaked audio of Trump   in 2005, released last week, that showed Trump making crude   sexual remarks about women. But he said nothing about the tape   surprised him. ’ ’    ’ ’ Last month, Kasich joined President Barack Obama at the White   House, alongside other leaders, to advocate for the passing of   the   Partnership, or TPP, the landmark trade   agreement that’’s being torched along the campaign trail. Neither     candidate is publicly supporting the agreement, with   Trump going as far as saying it would continue ”the rape of our   country.” ’ ’ But that did not push Kasich to distance himself from the   deal, which he believes is necessary economically and   geopolitically. Since that press conference, he has continued to   push for its passing as the most prominent elected Republican   official to stand firmly behind the agreement. ’ ’ In an interview with Business Insider this week, Kasich   discussed TPP and the recent Wells Fargo scandal, and he gave a   dire warning to the Republican Party. ’ ’ This interview has been edited for clarity and length. ’ ”Allan Smith: Last month, you gave a  at the White House on   trade. Tell us what you’ve been up to regarding helping the     Partnership pass since then, and what you’re   planning for the crucial   session? ” ’John Kasich: Well, we just published  and I’’ve   talked to a few members about this. I was discouraged when I read   that [Senate Minority Leader Mitch] McConnell said that it was   dead, but then I was told he turned around and said, ”No, it’’s   not.” ’ ”   As long as the White House is deadly serious, which they tell me   they are, I’ll help them anyway I can. You know, whatever it   takes. It’s very important obviously from an economic point of   view because of the need for innovation, for progress, to improve   the standard of living of people. But I also think it’s a   critical issue in geopolitics too. With all those fledgling   countries in Asia, who really want to stand with us but they live   under the shadow of China and the smaller shadow of Russia. So I   just think it’s really important both economically and   geopolitically. ” ’  ’ ”   I have never worshipped at the altar of free trade, but I’ve   always been an advocate of free trade. This  —   it’s just now more   clear than ever. ” ”   Look, we have a very lousy system for retraining workers that get   disrupted. And, you know, I just don’t see anybody that’s   particularly interested in fixing that. They think it’s fixed,   but it’s not fixed. So, we need a dramatic improvement in the way   we train people who get displaced. Furthermore, when there is   cheating, the cheating needs to be called. And I see that the   administration has become much more aggressive on that front. ” ’Smith: Building off that, when you look at your   state, and a lot of the press surrounding trade in Rust Belt   states  —   such as Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Michigan  —   has been   focused on how factories have closed and how manufacturing jobs   are leaving. ’ ”Kasich: Well, first of all, we’re not Rust Belt.   I mean, that’s an old term. We do have manufacturing. We have a       investment from a Chinese individual, which   brings a couple thousand jobs in Dayton. So manufacturing is   still very important to us, but we are much more diversified   state. And furthermore, anybody that says the steel mills are   coming back to Youngstown is not telling the truth. They’re not   coming back. You could have some aspects of advanced   manufacturing appear. But if you look even at Pittsburgh, where I   grew up, you’ve now replaced steel jobs with technology jobs, and   they pay better. So, I know that, you know, leaders have to lead.   I don’t read polls to decide what I’m going to do. But for the   best interest of the people of our state, having a big mix of   technology, healthcare, IT, financial services, and manufacturing   is the ticket. To put all of your eggs in one basket is silly. We   did that for a long time and I don’t think it’s very smart. ” ”Smith: You won a sweeping reelection based   mainly on touting your record of strengthening Ohio’s economy   following Gov. Strickland’s years. So what has happened with the   narrative that this   message, that the economy is not   doing well, is really picking up steam in some areas? ” ’    ’ ’Kasich: I don’’t really think it is. I don’’t   really know  —   I don’’t think I believe that. When you ask people,   do they believe that we ought to have trade, I think people   understand it’’s important. Now, I think that they are hung up on,   you know, that people cheat and we don’’t enforce the laws, and I   think that’’s correct. But I don’’t think people want to just say,   ”We’’re not going to trade with anybody.” I don’’t accept that. I   really don’’t care  —   I’’m going to be like one of these deniers  —   I   don’’t care what the polls say. People intuitively know that trade   is good for our country. We just have to get the right trade   agreements. ’ ”Smith: Do you think the   session is the   only time this agreement can get through? Or do you think it’s   still possible afterward? ” ”Kasich: You know, I don’t know enough to say.   You watch people run for president, and a large part of what they   say, they don’t ever follow through on. But I don’t think you can   afford to wait on this. Do I think it could get passed in a lame   duck? Probably tough. But impossible? No, or I wouldn’t be   wasting my time. It’s going to take some leadership, and it takes   a time where leadership is more important than people’s political   career at times. ” ’Smith: What do you think the president needs to   do to help get this passed? ’ ”Kasich: He needs to really engage both   Republicans and Democrats. He needs to engage them in a very   personal way. And he needs to tell them that this is something   that America, the United States of America, needs. Not   Republican. It’s not Democrat. It’s America. ” ’Smith: Now certain media outlets  —   Breitbart,   Drudge Report, Sean Hannity, places where a lot of conservative   voters go to for information  —   have been pushing a strong   protectionist message with this agenda that coincides with what   Trump is pushing. This is out of step with more traditional   conservative values. Do you think the Republican Party needs to   take some control back from some of these outlets? ’ ”Kasich: Well, I don’t want to comment on media   outlets, but I will tell you that if the Republican Party does   not evolve, the Republican Party is going to die. The Republican   Party cannot be     not out there   practicing the politics of people, you know, the issues   surrounding drug addiction and mental illness and the cost of   prescription drugs and healthcare and student debt and all of   these things are very personal to people now. And if the party   wants to have an ideological debate, it’s never going to win   anything in a major way. So I do believe that the party needs to   evolve, or I won’t be a part of it. ” ’Smith: In your Washington Post   you called   Vladimir Putin a   Stalin. What do you make of the state   of   relations, which are seemingly at a low point since   the Cold War? ’ ”Kasich: I’ve been frankly very surprised at the   intensity of our differences. I mean, between what appears to be   hacking of our political system to the aggressive use of nukes on   the borders, to these atrocities in Syria and their warnings.   I’ve been very, very surprised at the intensity of all this. You   know, I think to a degree this happens when they spot a softness   in us, which I think for a while they did. But I think that’s   coming to an end. And, you know, when we . .. we can’t beg them to   get along with us. And I think there was some of that going on,   which has now ended. ” ’  ’ ”   It’s a very serious matter. And what should we do about it? We   should reinforce NATO. We need to be prepared to take solid   actions to make it clear that we will not tolerate any   intervention, and Russian intervention. These are serious   matters, and we can never let up on these sanctions. Frankly, we   should publicly increase them. And when it comes to the   cyberwarfare piece, we’re going to have to deal with it. I mean,   it would be very easy to make an inflammatory statement on what   we ought to do on cyber. I don’t think that that’s productive.   But to allow the Russian activity to go unresponded to is not   acceptable. So the administration is going to have to figure out,   you know, a tough response on the basis of this hacking. ” ”Smith: Now there was just a story published on   how the administration is weighing military options regarding   Syria, not necessarily looking at ISIS but at Assad and Russia   backing them. Do you think we’re at the point where that needs to   be on the table? ” ”Kasich: I think it’s too late. I think that   there’s been too much. This all started with the red line,   walking away from it. The inability to arm the legitimate Assad   opposition. And, you know, it’s trying to put toothpaste back in   the tube. Not only are there a lot of outsiders intervening but   this also involves a vicious internal war. There are many who   believe the Alawites will fight to the death because they believe   that, should they lose power, the majority would take, would show   no compassion for them. They ruled that country for a long time,   ruthlessly. It is a vicious civil war that makes one want to cry   every day. We’ve just let too many things happen. And now, try to   turn around and fix it. Getting involved in a civil war directly   was never something I thought made sense. ” ’Smith: Moving on to Wells Fargo, this is one of   the biggest banking scandals that I can remember in my lifetime.   What were some of your thoughts on what happened? ’ ”Kasich: It’s a disgrace. And everybody who was   involved in that culture should be held accountable. And there is   no way they should walk out of that place with millions, tens of   millions, tens and tens of millions of dollars, when innocent   people who actually flagged this culture of conceit and culture   of rip off should’ve been fired while the people who were doing   it somehow are able to just resign and reap the big reward. It’s   just an outrage. It’s people who have forgotten decent values   towards other people. ” ’Smith: I know that California and Illinois have   both suspended doing business with Wells Fargo. Would you   recommend that Ohio do the same? ( that state   agencies under his control would cut off business with the bank   for at least one year.) ’ ”Kasich: Well, I don’t know the extent to which   they do business. I just want to see how this thing continues to   unfold and if they have a legitimately major change in their   culture. They have a new CEO. I don’t know much about him. The   lady who was involved to some degree in the shenanigans along   with the CEO are gone. So I need to see where things stand before   we go any farther at this point. ” ’    ’ ”   Smith: As someone who worked with a major bank, how do you   suggest preventing scandals like this from happening in the   future? What’s your fix to prevent this? ” ”Kasich: How do you prevent people from doing   inappropriate things? We can write laws. But at the end of the   day, I actually wonder what the board was doing. What had the   board been doing when they see these things happening. I mean,   you can write a law that says you cannot provide incentives for   the openings of accounts, but I think it gets to be a deeper   issue of the value structure of any organization and the value of   its leaders. And if you talk to anybody who’s been successful in   business, they will tell you the thing that matters the most are   people. And clearly, in this case, the quality of the people was   not paid attention to. By the board and I don’t know what they   were doing. And I think there is a certain accountability by the   board here. ”