’  ’ ’   Over the course of this election cycle, Republican presidential   nominee Donald Trump has repeatedly insisted that Syrian   President Bashar Assad and his allies are fighting terrorism in   Syria. ’ ’   ”I don’’t like Assad at all, but Assad is killing ISIS,” Trump   said during the second presidential debate. ’ ”   It’s exactly what Assad wants everyone to think  —   but experts say   it’s not true. ” ’   ”The Assad government strategy has long been to present the world   a binary choice: either the Assad government, which is in some   ways secular, or the extremist Islamists and force the world to   choose between them,” Robert Ford, a senior fellow at the   Middle East Institute who was the US ambassador to Syria   from 2011 to 2014, told Business Insider.  ’ ’   He added: ”The Russians have already made their choice.” ’ ”   Russia is one of Assad’s main allies in the Syrian civil war that   has dragged on for more than five years. President Vladimir Putin   has authorized Russian military strikes in Syria in   support of Assad’s government. And while Putin claims to be   fighting terrorism in Syria, his military has mostly targeted   more moderate opposition forces that oppose Assad’s regime. ” ”   There are multiple fronts in the Syrian conflict  —   terrorist   groups like ISIS and Al   factions are fighting for   territory, as are moderate rebel groups. But Assad’s primary goal   so far has been to wipe out the moderate opposition to make his   regime look more legitimate in comparison. ” ’   ”That’’s why these groups are not their main target,” Ford said.   ”So they have spent almost all their time trying to eliminate the   moderate opposition because they want to boil it down to a choice   between the extremists and Assad.” ’ ’   Analysis of Russian airstrikes from September 2015, when   Russian involvement in Syria started, and September 2016 showed   that ”Russia’’s claims of striking ’’terrorists’’ were clearly not   accurate as they repeatedly attacked mainstream opposition   groups, particularly those working with the West,”  the   think tank the Institute   for the Study of War. ’ ’   While Russia has struck some terrorist targets, these have been   in the minority. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Since it intervened militarily in Syria over a year ago to save   Assad, Russia has concentrated its firepower almost exclusively   against Syrian civilians and Syrian nationalist opponents of   Assad: people who are on ISIS’’ bullseye as well,” Fred Hof,   a former special adviser for transition in Syria under     of State Hillary Clinton and current director   of the Rafik Hariri Center for the Middle East at the Atlantic   Council, told Business Insider in an email. ’ ’   ”ISIS, Assad, Russia, and Iran each share the same objective: to   have ISIS and Assad be the last parties left standing in Syria.” ’ ”   But Hof said he doesn’t think Trump is purposely boosting Assad’s   narrative of being the last bulwark against a terrorist takeover   of Syria. ” ’   ”I’’m willing to assume that Mr. Trump is not consciously pushing   the    line,” Hof said. ”Unlike his running   mate, who has called for the defense of Aleppo against unmerciful   regime and Russian attacks, he seems not to have studied the   issue in any depth. This he can correct if he wishes.” ’ ’   Ford made a similar assessment. ’ ’   ”With all due respect to Mr. Trump, he doesn’’t know what he’’s   talking about,” he said. ”[I] don’’t think Donald Trump   understands that the problem of the Islamic State is essentially   a political problem, not a military problem and that it cannot be   resolved be a purely military approach.” ’ ”   Experts contend that terrorism in Syria is a political problem   because as long Assad continues to hang onto power and   relentlessly attack civilians with barrel bombs and chemical   weapons, using air power that the rebels don’t have, people will   be persuaded to join terrorist groups that are better equipped   than the rebels to fight his regime. ” ”   Assad has killed far more civilians in Syria than terrorist   groups, so he’s the main enemy of most people who remain in the     country. ” ’   ”Including Bashar   as part of the solution when Bashar    ’’s government is the origin of the political problem   makes no sense,” Ford said. ”It just makes no sense to me. And if   anything, it might make the problem worse rather than better in   terms of aiding jihadi recruitment.” ’