’  ’ ’   In less than 30 days between September and October this year,   Customs and Border Protection agents and the US Coast Guard   recovered nearly 400 pounds of marijuana floating in the waters   off the Florida Keys and eastern Florida. ’ ’   The drugs, collected in 15 separate incidents, were found   floating at sea and washed up on shore. The street value of the   total haul was estimated to be $306, 400, the CBP said in a   . ’ ’   The drug seizures over the last several weeks appear to be part   of an upswing in such incidents. ’ ’ to the CBP, during Fiscal Year   2015, which ran October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015, there were   49 such seizures. During the following Fiscal Year, which ended   September 30, those type of seizures nearly doubled, hitting 95. ’ ’   ”There has been a significant spike in drugs washing up on   shore,” US Border Patrol Miami Sector division chief, Todd   Bryant, said in a . ”This is at least partially   attributable to improved partnerships across the state but   potentially also to a shift in smuggling methods.” ’ ’   Floating drug loads are not a new development for Florida. During   the 1980s, smugglers frequently used maritime and air routes over   the eastern Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico to funnel drugs into   South Florida and on to points north. ’ ’  ’ ”   Since those smugglers often dropped drug cargoes into the water  —     either while avoiding pursuers or for later pickup by other   traffickers  —   it was not uncommon for bales of marijuana or   cocaine to be spotted by boaters or to wash up on Florida’s   coast. ” ’   Seizures of drugs at sea or floating ashore have occurred with   some regularity since the heyday of Caribbean trafficking in the   1980s. ’ ’   A   New York Times  described the increased use of      drops and of stash houses as a sign that the     smuggling route was seeing more traffic. That   resurgence appeared to be spurred on by smaller, more flexible   organizations making use of better navigation tools to augment   their   operations in the expanse of the Bahamian   archipelago. ’ ’   In more recent years, maritime seizures of both marijuana and   cocaine have continued. ’ ’   Between April and October 2012, 855 pounds of marijuana washed up   on South Florida beaches. The amount of marijuana  by the Coast Guard during that fiscal   year was the most intercepted since 1997. ’ ’   The following year, fishermen off Destin, in northeast Florida,   found a    floating in the water.   They hauled it in and turned in the cargo, with an estimated   worth of $2. 5 million, to authorities. ’ ’   In 2015, two men were busted trying to sell one kilo of a    they said they   recovered at sea off the Florida Keys. (They asked an undercover   officer to pay $10, 000; a kilo was going for $35, 000 at the   time.) ’ ”   The seizures between September and October this year aren’t   confirmation of a wholesale shift in trafficking routes, but it’s   possible that some smugglers operating out of South or Central   America have looked anew to Caribbean routes in light of  and   increased enforcement at the   border. ”