’  ’ ’   Donald Trump  Monday afternoon in which he   called the latest documents released by the FBI on the Hillary   Clinton email investigation ”proof of corruption at the highest   level.” ’ ’   ”This is very big and frankly, it’’s unbelievable,” Trump said.   ”What was just found out is the State Department and the FBI   colluded, got together, to make Hillary Clinton look less guilty   and look lot better than she looks.” ’ ’ suggest an   undersecretary of state requested that the FBI change a   classified email to unclassified for what a bureau official   interpreted as a ”quid pro quo” exchange with the State   Department. ’ ”The undersecretary of state, Patrick Kennedy, asked for   assistance in changing the classification of an email that the   FBI had marked classified, according to an individual whose name   was redacted in the fourth batch of notes summarizing the FBI’s   investigation into Clinton’s email conduct. The   investigation took place in 2015, after Clinton had left the   State Department. ” ’   According to the documents, the FBI official then contacted   another person and ”pressured” the individual to change the   classification of the email. ’ ’   In exchange for marking the email unclassified, the State   Department was willing to ”reciprocate by allowing the FBI to   place more agents in countries where they are presently   forbidden,” according to the documents. ’ ’   The deal, which was rejected, was characterized as a ”quid pro   quo” by the unnamed individual relaying an account of the   conversation Kennedy had with the FBI official. ’ ’   ”This is one of the big breaking stories of our time, in my   opinion,” Trump said. ”This shows corruption at the highest   level, and we can’’t let it happen as American citizens.” ’ ’   ”So let’’s see how the press covers it, because the press likes   not to cover it,” he continued. ”The best thing that Hillary   Clinton has going is the media, because without the media, she   wouldn’’t even be in this race.” ’ ’   The Republican presidential nominee said the documents proved   there was ”collusion” between the FBI, State Department, and   Department of Justice, and that the Democratic presidential   nominee is ”guilty of very high crimes.” ’ ”   Trump’s campaign also called on Kennedy to resign in a statement   released Monday afternoon. ” ’   ”Today’’s release of the FBI notes on their investigation into   Clinton’s secret email server is deeply disturbing,” senior   communications adviser Jason Miller said in a   statement. ”The news that top Clinton aide Patrick Kennedy   tried to engage in a blatant quid pro quo for changing the   classification level of several of Clinton’’s emails shows a   cavalier attitude towards protecting our nation’’s secrets.   Kennedy must resign from the State Department immediately and   Clinton must state he has no place in her administration if she   is elected President.” ’ ’   During the second presidential debate, and in subsequent rallies,   Trump threatened that Clinton would ”be in jail” should he be   elected in the fall, as he promised his attorney general would   appoint a special prosecutor to look into her email controversy. ’ ’   ”Let’’s hope that our country gets a fair shake,” Trump said in   the Monday video. ”This is a big mess.” ’ ’ ’ ” ’t’t’tCrooked Hillary colluded   and DOJ and media is covering up to protect her. It’s a ! Our country deserves better!  ” ’ Pamela Engel contributed to this report. ’