’  ’ ’   Russian and Syrian forces  on bombing  on Tuesday, possibly allowing civilians and rebel   groups to flee the city. ’ ’   While citizens and combatants in Aleppo would likely welcome any   cessation of the  which has been linked   to possible war crimes like  and  the unilateral move excludes the   international community and the US. ’ ’   To put it bluntly, the US and larger international community have   been muscled out of Syria by Russia. ’ ’   The US no longer ”has a horse to ride” in Syria, according to    chairman of  and an expert   on Syria and the Middle East. ’ ”   Kupchan says two key events have undermined the US’s clout in   Syria to the point that there are no longer any good options   there for the US to pursue. ” ’   The rise of Jabhat Fateh    —   an Islamist group formerly   affiliated with Al Qaeda that called itself Jabhat al Nusra  —   as   the dominant opposition group to Syrian President Bashar Assad’’s   regime represents the first blow to the US’’s strategy of   ”training and equipping” secular, moderate rebels. ’ ’   Kupchan says that toward the beginning of the Syrian conflict in   2011, there was secular opposition to Assad that had ”sufficient   numbers to balance” Assad’’s forces on the battlefield. ’ ’   Now, however, ”the secular opposition is extremely small and not   terribly relevant to the ongoing Syrian tragedy,” Kupchan said. ’ ’  ’ ”   After the erosion of meaningful opposition to Assad, Russia’s   intervention on behalf of Assad just over a year ago may have   been the final nail in the coffin for the relevance of the US and   larger international community. ” ’   ”Assad was on his heels,” said Kupchan. ”Russian intervention put   him back moving forward. Assad and his allies are now the   dominant power on the battlefield.” ’ ”   In fact, Russia dominates Syria’s airspace so much that the US   can’t really consider launching airstrikes against Assad  —     Moscow’s recent  to   Syria has created a de facto   zone over areas under   government control. ” ’   Igor Sutyagin, an expert on Russian missile defenses at the Royal   United Services Institute,  that the US would now strain to strike   at Syrian government targets. Even the US Air Force’’s     stealth aircraft would have to be ”” to strike Russian or Syrian targets, he   said. ’ ’   But as Kupchan notes, even if the US could readily destroy the   missiles, risking war with Russia is not worth it. ’ ’  ’ ’   Since the kinetic solutions to ending the war have crumbled, US   officials have been again discussing the idea of equipping and   training rebels and the Kurds, but Kupchan says these are not   good options either. ’ ’   ”In theory, there are sufficient secular and     members of the opposition that one could construe a      program. The problems facing that strategy would   be numerous  —   the    alliance has significant   momentum on the battlefield, and while we may well give weapons   to the ’’sane opposition,’’ the chances they would end up in the   hands of the radical opposition is extremely high,” Kupchan said. ’ ’   Indeed, US efforts to train and equip groups in Syria have    in the past. According to Kupchan, ”the   best shot is the shot we’’re taking  —   to continue to engage Russia   and, to the extent practical, the broader community   internationally (Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and Iran) to try to save   lives.” ’ ’   But when Syria, Iran, and Russia increasingly control the   situation on the ground, the prospect of leveraging these   countries to act against their interests, with no threat of   military challenge from the US, grows increasingly dim. ’ ”   The US and international community can continue to nudge and prod   Russia to do the right thing in Syria, but Washington’s chances   of exerting real influence on the ground have now dwindled to   virtually zero. ”