’  ’ ”   After nearly two months of turmoil, America’s private prison   industry is fighting to stem the tide of bad news that keeps   flowing its way. ” ’   The trouble started in   after the  it would begin phasing out   its contracts for private prison operators. ’ ’   Immediately, shares of Corrections Corporation of America and GEO   Group  —   the two largest such companies  —    while prison reform advocates celebrated. ’ ’   Next, the Department of Homeland Security scrambled to follow   suit, announcing it would  use   of   companies to run its detention centers. ’ ”   Democratic presidential nominee  praising the Justice   Department’s directive during her first debate with Donald Trump   on September 26. ” ’’ ’   ”You shouldn’’t have a profit motivation to fill prison cells with   young Americans,” she said. ”I’’m glad that we’’re ending private   prisons in the federal system; I want to see them ended in the   state system.” ’ ’   A day later,  for at least 50 employees in its   Nashville headquarters as part of a ”restructuring” effort to   reduce costs. ’ ’   Since the Justice Department’’s memo, the companies have  to prevent a   disaster,    to prevent the    . Earlier this month, GEO Group  with the Government Accountability   Office, arguing that reducing a private prison contract would be   an ”improper and illogical change.” ’ ’   ”We believe the need is still there because the Bureau of Prisons   is still overcrowded, and these communities have extended   themselves financially,” chairman and CEO George Zoley told The   Washington Post. ’ ”   GEO Group has also thrown its support behind Republican nominee   Donald Trump, who has . The company donated   $150, 000 to a   super PAC one day after the Justice   Department’s announcement, . ” ’   ”I do think we can do a lot of privatizations and private   prisons. It seems to work a lot better,” Trump said at a town   hall event in March. ’ ’   There are signs the companies’’ efforts may be working. In   September, six Republican lawmakers urged the Justice Department   to ”step back” from its plan to phase out private prison   contracts, according to The Post. ’ ’   ”We are concerned that the DOJ’’s instructions put politics ahead   of policy when it comes to maintaining flexibility in our prison   system, encouraging vital criminal alien law enforcement, and   providing the best value for our taxpayers,” the lawmakers wrote. ’ ”   The companies won a small victory on Tuesday, when  with ICE for a   detention center in Dilley, Texas, despite the DHS’s ongoing   review. Shares for the company spiked in the wake of the news. ” ’   ”We think we have a great, great story to show, what we’’ve done   historically, and they’’ll come to the same conclusion that we’’ve   been a really, really good tool for ICE,” Damon Hininger, CEO of   CCA, told media Tuesday. ’