’  ’ ’   Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte arrived in Beijing on   Tuesday after months of overtures for better relations with the   Chinese government. ’ ”   His arrival in China has been accompanied by a  on that country’s state   media in which Duterte has voiced his affinity for the Asian   giant and his hopes to affirm good relations between the two   countries. ” ”   But Duterte’s outreach to China is fraught with risks  —   even in a   situation in which he gets what he wants, he may find himself   returning to a Philippines with reduced standing in the region,   weakened relations with a longstanding ally, and less leverage in   its dealings with China. ” ’   Duterte, whose grandfather was an  from China’’s Xiamen province, has   sought to underscore the closeness of his country and China   and the necessity of improved relations with Beijing for   Manila. ”My grandfather is Chinese . .. It’’s only China   (that) can help us,” Duterte  in an interview with China’’s   Xiahua. ’ ’   His representatives have referred to the trip as way to ”” relations between the two countries.   Ahead of the visit,  to win Beijing’’s favor,   including rebuffing the US over joint military exercises,   downplaying an   ruling that rejected China’’s   claims in the South China Sea, and criticizing US leadership. ’ ’   From China, he hopes to . He has carted some 200 business leaders along with him   to Beijing and has spent months  that China could provide   infrastructure aid for railways in his home state of Mindanao and   elsewhere in the Philippines.  ’ ’   ”There will be a lot, I mean a lot, of business contracts that   will be signed,” Philippine Foreign Secretary Charles Jose has   . ’ ’  ’ ’   The South China Sea has also loomed large in the lead up to the   visit. ’ ’   Even though  from the   July court ruling and that he  the issue during his   visit, a Philippine official did  that he intended to raise the   issue of Filipino fishermen, who had been denied access to waters   around Scarborough since 2012, when China seized the shoal. ’ ’   Duterte is not the first Philippine leader to enter office hoping   to rebuild ties with China, and he may not be the first to see   those hopes founder over Scarborough. ’ ”   Duterte has spoken with bravado about the shoal, asserting   Philippine claims on it, a stance that has wide support among   Filipinos. But since taking office he has moderated his tone   about dealings with China. And  over the last few days indicate may   China may be willing to offer a deal: Recognize China’s authority   over Scarborough in exchange for Beijing granting Manila   permission to fish in the waters around it. ” ’   ”Everybody can go [to Scarborough Shoal] but there will be   conditions,” a Chinese source in contact with senior Chinese   officials  adding, ”The two countries   would have to form working groups to iron out details” when asked   what those conditions would be. ’ ’  ’ ”   China’s Global Times newspaper also called on Beijing to offer   that deal  —   a stance that  implied China had the right to   grant those privileges. ” ’   But in being open to a deal with China over Scarborough, Duterte   likely puts himself in a position where no matter what he comes   home with, he will be greeted with disapproval. ’ ’   ”If he returns without any concession, it would be a humiliating   blow since he’’s already gone out of his way to distance himself   from the Philippines’’ allies,” Jay Batongbacal, an ocean lawyer   at the University of the Philippines,  Chatham House’’s Bill Hayton. ”If he   returns with a concession, he will be seen as having succumbed to   China and to have abandoned   good relations for a   pittance.” ’ ’   A deal allowing Philippine fishermen to return to Scarborough’’s   waters could ”be a diplomatic masterstroke by China,” Hayton   . ’ ’  ’ ’   Such a deal would put a divide between Manila and Washington and   allies in the region that have all worked to contain China in the   South China Sea. ’ ’   Concessions to China over Scarborough would likely alienate   Duterte from his constituents at home, who have given him    amid a bloody crackdown   on drugs that has earned international criticism. ’ ’   ”At the minimum [Duterte] shouldn’’t be seen as giving up our   claims to Scarborough, or seen as backtracking given the   favorable ruling of the Arbitral Tribunal,”  Renato Reyes, the   of   radical grassroots coalition Bayan, . ’ ”   Duterte’s own ardent assertions about Manila’s claims in the   South China Sea  —    to Jet Ski to Scarborough and plant   the Philippine flag there  —   won him much support, and a reversal   now would likely sour his standing at home. His comments in China   have already generated  at home. ” ”   A deal with Beijing could also damage the Philippines’ ties with   the US. Even though the US has  dialogue between Manila and   Beijing (despite Duterte’s tirades against the US) it has   stressed the importance of adhering to the ruling issued in July. ” ’  ’ ’   ”I do not believe that public opinion in the Philippines or the   national interest of the Philippines would support the   relinquishing of Philippine rights, territory or sovereignty, and   I can’’t imagine that is President Duterte’’s intention,” Daniel   Russel, the US’’s chief diplomat for East Asia, . ’ ”   In this context, Duterte’s diatribes against US leaders become   more dangerous. ” ’   Strained ties with Washington, which has maintained a military   presence in the region to check Chinese ambitions, could make it   harder for Manila to balance against more assertive Chinese   actions in Scarborough and elsewhere. That strain may have   already put Duterte in a worse bargaining position. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Duterte’s bid to downgrade the US alliance” will damage the   Philippines’’ negotiating position when Duterte sits down to talk   with China,  director of the Asia Maritime   Transparency Initiative at the Center for Strategic and   International Studies, . ’ ’   ”The threat of U. S. intervention is what has prevented more overt   Chinese aggression at Second Thomas Shoal or Scarborough Shoal,”   Poling added. ”Now Duterte is throwing that leverage overboard   before he has even gotten into a room with Xi Jinping.” ’ ’   ”If, when President Duterte goes to Beijing for the first time   . .. he really expects to have fruitful negotiations with China on   the thorny issues of the South China Sea and try to reach a deal,   why is he giving up his only leverage, which is the US treaty   commitment?” Poling said on  earlier this month. ’ ’   Duterte is slated to meet with Chinese leaders on October 20.   What, if any, deals on the South China Sea emerge from that   remain to be seen. ’