’  ’ ’   With less than 20 days remaining in the presidential race, the   electoral map is beginning to harden. ’ ”   And it’s looking like a landslide win for Democratic presidential   nominee Hillary Clinton. ” ”   Seven swing states and one congressional district have shifted   since Business Insider’s projection . But just one state was added to either Clinton’s   or Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s total. ” ”   Using polling data from  and    Business Insider found that   Clinton, as of this week, would lead Trump 278 to 181 electoral   votes in states that were either safe or likely bets to go in   favor of either party’s nominee. That alone would give Clinton   more than the 270 electoral votes needed to clinch the   presidency. ” ”   It’s a slight difference from  which showed Clinton with a      edge in the same categories. ” ’’ ’   Business Insider judged that a safe state was one in which a   candidate led by at least 8 percentage points, while a likely   state was anywhere in which the nominee held a   to     lead. ’ ’   When including states leaning toward a candidate by 2 to 4   points, Clinton held a    advantage over Trump. Last   week, Clinton was up 316 to 187 when including this category. ’ ’   Nevada was the only state newly swinging in favor of a candidate;   it shifted from a   to one Clinton looks likely to win in   less than three weeks. ’ ’   Those   states  —   any in which a   nominee held a   lead of less than 2 points  —   consist of 29 electoral votes. Last   week, the three states that were too close to call were Nevada,   Ohio, and Arizona. This week, just Arizona and Ohio remain in   that category. ’ ’   The map comes on the heels of a brutal pair of weeks in which    showed him making crude   sexual remarks about women. A score of  to say Trump had made unwanted sexual   advances on them. ’ ’   Trump has vehemently denied those claims, calling them ”fiction.” ’ ’   The Manhattan billionaire is doubling down on rhetoric that he   might not accept the results of the election. ’ ’   During the  on Wednesday, Trump was pressed by   debate moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News on  despite his   repeated suggestions recently that the election may be ”rigged”   against him. ’