’  ’ ’   After Fox News anchor Chris Wallace received  for his performance as the moderator of the third   and final presidential debate, he reflected on the experience   Friday night. ’ ’   Overall, Wallace said he was surprised by the candidates’’   ”distaste” for each other. ’ ’   ”As Keith Jackson, the fabled football announcer, used to say   before a big rivalry game: ’’These two guys just plain don’’t like   each other,’’” Wallace said. ”I mean their distaste for each other    —    at the beginning, they didn’’t shake   hands at the end.” ’ ’   However, the  from the debate was Republican presidential   candidate Donald Trump’’s refusal to accept the election results.   Wallace asked Trump if he would do so despite his unfounded   declaration that the election may be ”rigged” against him. ’ ’   ”I will look at it at the time. I’’m not looking at anything now.   I’’ll look at it at the time,” Trump said. ’ ’’ ’   Pressed again by Wallace, Trump said he would ”keep you in   suspense” about his decision. ’ ’   On Friday, Wallace  why he decided to ask the question   in the first place. ’ ’   ”Trump for at least two weeks had been talking about this   election as ’’rigged,’’ ’’It’’s gonna be stolen from us. ’’ And it had   become such an issue that last Sunday, when Mike Pence was on the   shows, he was asked specifically about this, and he said, of   course, Trump and I will ’’absolutely respect the results of the   election. ’’ His daughter Ivanka the day of the debate on Wednesday   had said they would respect the results of the election,” Wallace   said. ”Trump had never said that. So to me, that was kind of the   perfect   question in the sense that no matter what he   said, it would be news.” ’ ”   Hume said one of Wallace’s only critiques was from Trump   supporters complaining that he didn’t ask Democratic presidential   candidate Hillary Clinton the same question. Wallace explained   why he didn’t think he needed to ask Clinton, and why he decided   to press Trump about his initial answer: ”