Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) Since the lofty idealism of the 1960s, the goal of making college affordable for all Californians has been in dogged decline. Tuition at both the University of California and California State systems has tripled over the last 15 years. And now, leaders of both institutions are pondering another increase. The result, according to a new survey, is that many Californians no longer see a path into public higher education. The study by the Public Policy Institute of California found that 85 percent of Californians surveyed now think that tuition costs at the state’s public colleges and universities present a problem. “It’s not about quality,” said Mark Baldassare, the president of the nonprofit research group. “It’s about affordability. ” To critics, the worries are more evidence of a betrayal of mission enshrined in California’s higher education system: that any resident who worked hard enough would be guaranteed a   university education. At the moment, the University of California’s undergraduate tuition and fees are roughly $13, 500 a year, well above the national average for public universities. At Cal State, about $6, 900. A University of California spokesman, Ricardo Vazquez, noted that the Public Policy Institute survey showed that a wide majority of Californians judged the quality of instruction at the state’s public colleges and universities favorably. But, he added in a statement, “The findings also show that Californians are aware and concerned, as is U. C. that public higher education in the state is severely underfunded. ” According to the University of California, the system relied on state funding for nearly a quarter of its budget as recently as 2002. That figure is now about 10 percent, after more than $1 billion in cuts. Still, representatives of both Cal State and the University of California said that the tuition of a majority of their students was fully covered by financial aid. The costs of transportation, textbooks and housing, however, are another matter. University students have reported struggles with soaring housing costs in the areas surrounding many of the campuses, in places like Irvine, Santa Barbara and Berkeley. In July, a survey found that one in five University of California students sometimes went hungry. A study this year by the Institute for College Access and Success, a nonprofit advocacy group, found that even after subtracting aid,   students in both the Cal State and University of California systems had to come up with as much as $13, 000 a year. “And by low income, I mean with a family income that’s under $30, 000,” said Debbie Cochrane, vice president at the organization. “So, that is a hefty price tag. ” The Times is doing something new: Our reporters who are investigating the Oakland warehouse fire will be providing regular updates on their findings. We are also asking readers for help in tracking down information, and for suggestions on what issues related to the fire we should explore. Email oaklandfire@nytimes. com. • In the   Ship aftermath that left 36 people dead, fire departments are cracking down on illegal warehouses nationwide. [The New York Times] • Lawmakers in Washington approved a bill that provides $558 million in drought relief for California. Senator Barbara Boxer has vowed to fight it. [McClatchy] • California is preparing to lead the resistance as nativist ideologues around Donald J. Trump itch for him to be merciless. [The New York Times Editorial Board] • The   chose Andrew F. Puzder, a Southern California   executive, as labor secretary. He opposes raising the minimum wage. [The New York Times] • Los Angeles prosecutors accused four big retailers  —   J. C. Penney, Sears, Kohl’s and Macy’s  —   of tricking shoppers. [Los Angeles Times] • Millions of Bay Area residents were informed that their stinky tap water is safe to drink. [San Francisco Chronicle] • Palm Springs millennials are returning home to open restaurants where the rent is cheap. [LA Weekly] • The Emerald Cup, a marijuana fair in Santa Rosa, is expected to draw 30, 000 people this weekend. [San Francisco Chronicle] • Movie Review: “La La Land,” starring Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone, succeeds as both a romantic comedy and a showbiz melodrama. [The New York Times] • Photographs: The year’s best actors channeled classic   looks. [The New York Times] It was supposed to be the Woodstock of the West. Instead, the Altamont Speedway Free Festival became one of the more notorious days in rock history. It was this week in 1969 that the Bay Area concert headlined by the Rolling Stones descended into mayhem as Hells Angels beat dozens of concertgoers and, in one case, stabbed an    to death within 20 feet of the stage. Organizers had wanted to host the concert, which was also to feature the    Grateful Dead, among other acts, at San Francisco’s Golden Gate Park. But the plans fell apart. At the last minute, Dick Carter, the owner of Altamont, offered his raceway in the city of Livermore. A rambling army of hippies  —   estimated at more than 300, 000  —   swept into the outdoor site. According to Joel Selvin, author of “Altamont: The Rolling Stones, the Hells Angels, and the Inside Story of Rock’s Darkest Day,” the planning was a debacle. Nobody was in charge, he said. There was no water or food concessions and too few toilets. Bad acid was everywhere. The Hells Angels had been enlisted to handle security. One of the motorcycle club’s primary duties: Keep fans a safe distance from the stage. Armed with pool cues, the bikers whacked and punched concertgoers. Briefed about the degenerating situation, the Dead refused to play. But the Stones went ahead. As scuffles broke out during their set, Mick Jagger pleaded for calm: “Come on now. That means everybody just cool out!” Then, for reasons uncertain to this day, Meredith Hunter, a black man dressed in a lime green suit, pulled a revolver near the stage. He was swiftly stabbed by a Hells Angel and pummeled by others, killing him. The stabbing was captured by filmmakers who made it a central scene in a documentary about the Stones called “Gimme Shelter. ” (Alan Passaro, the Angel who wielded the knife, was later indicted on a charge of murder but acquitted by a jury on grounds of  .) Altamont ultimately became a shorthand in the larger culture for the hippie movement’s dark underbelly. The episode did not spell the end of the counterculture, said Mr. Selvin, the author. “But it was a terrible loss of innocence. ” California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.