’  ’ ’   GETTSYBURG, Pa. (Reuters)   U. S. Republican presidential   candidate Donald Trump promised on Saturday to foil a proposed   deal for AT&T Inc to buy Time Warner Inc if he wins the Nov.   8 election, arguing it was an example of a ”power structure”   rigged against both him and voters. ’ ’   Trump listed his policy plans for the first 100 days of his   presidency in a campaign speech in historic Gettysburg,   Pennsylvania, but also defiantly raised personal grievances,   describing how he would address them from the White House. ’ ’   Moments after promising Americans that he represented a break   from the status quo, he promised to sue a number of women who   have come forward to accuse him of sexual assault, calling them   liars. ’ ’   And he added a new threat to his repeated criticisms of U. S.   media companies, which he says cover his campaign unfairly to   help Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. ’ ’   ”They’’re trying desperately to suppress my vote and the voice of   the American people,” he told supporters in his speech. ’ ’’ ’   ”As an example of the power structure I’’m fighting, AT&T is   buying Time Warner and thus CNN, a deal we will not approve in my   administration because it’’s too much concentration of power in   the hands of too few,” Trump said. ’ ’   He also said he would look at ”breaking” up Comcast’’s acquisition   of NBC Universal in 2013. ’ ’   ”Deals like this destroy democracy,” he said. ’ ’   Although Trump, a wealthy New York businessman, described these   plans at least in part as a response to his belief such   organizations had treated him unfairly, he argued that less   wealthy voters had even greater cause to worry. ’ ’   ”When a simple phone call placed with the biggest newspapers or   television networks gets them wall to wall coverage with   virtually no   whatsoever, here is why this is   relevant to you,” he said. ”If they can fight somebody like me   who has unlimited resources to fight back, just look at what they   could do to you, your jobs, your security, your education, your   health care.” ’ ’   Trump is trailing Clinton in most polls   although he has   narrowed the gap according to a   poll released on   Friday. Clinton maintained her commanding lead in the race to win   the Electoral College, however, and claim the U. S. presidency, a     States of the Nation project poll released on   Saturday showed. ’ ’     ’ ’   (Reporting by Emily Stephenson and Jonathan Allen; editing by   Grant McCool) ’