’  ’ ’   On Friday, multiple outlets reported that AT&T and Time   Warner are nearing a deal to merge the two companies,   which could come as early as Sunday. ’ ’   Such a deal would link AT&T’s “pipes”  —   wireless, broadband,   and satellite  —   to Time Warner’s media properties that range from   HBO to CNN to Warner Brothers. ’ ’   Why? AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson wants to add more “content”   and “original programming” to the company’s umbrella generally,   . ’ ’   But even if the deal doesn’t happen, AT&T has already   signaled, in a bunch of ways, that it wants a piece of the future   of entertainment. ’ ”   One of the biggest moves AT&T has made toward this ambition   so far is the announcement of its upcoming DirecTV Now service,   which will launch before the end of 2016. Right now, DirecTV Now   will target the 20 million people in the US who don’t have pay   TV, but the company plans for it to be the primary TV platform by   2020, . ” ’’ ”   DirecTV Now will be a live TV package that’s delivered over the   internet wherever you are  —   no cable box or satellite dish   necessary. As is the norm for “  ” services like   Netflix or Sling TV, it also won’t lock you into an annual   contract. ” ’   “It’s pay TV as an app,” AT&T’s SVP of strategy and business   development, Tony Goncalves, told Business Insider.  ’ ’   Goncalves said two main revelations by AT&T led to the   development of this service: 60% of AT&T’s wireless network   traffic is video, and about 60% of the traffic on its “TV   everywhere” option, which lets DirecTV subscribers watch shows      is live viewing. The second number was particularly   surprising, and the conclusion was that there was a market for a   streaming live TV service, one that was free from legacy   equipment. ’ ’   This thesis seems to be a common one these days, as companies   from Google to Amazon to Hulu are reportedly readying their own   live streaming TV services. The market is going to get crowded  —     fast. ’ ’   So what does AT&T think will set it apart? One thing that   won’t, according to Goncalves, is “exclusivity. ” ’ ”   The early heavyweights in the subscription streaming video   market, like Netflix, Hulu, and Amazon, have all tried to set   themselves apart by giving you shows and movies you can’t get   anywhere else. Netflix has been particularly intent on it, with   the company’s leadership betting Netflix’s future on the success   of its original shows and movies. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   That means that if AT&T does indeed buy Time Warner, don’t   expect its properties to start developing shows exclusively for   DirecTV Now. AT&T is clearly interested in buying content   makers, just not for the purpose of tying them exclusively   to its own streaming TV platform. ’ ”   DirecTV Now won’t break the mold of pay TV, it will simply make   the delivery more fluid. And that will likely be the case for   many of the new entrants into the streaming live TV market, who   will put out channel packages that look suspiciously similar to   those you’d get on cable. ” ’   AT&T sees itself as an “aggregator of aggregators,” and its   strength will be in the breadth of content it provides, as well   as in a   technical experience, Goncalves explained. As   someone who has personally had  with the current live streaming leader,   Sling TV, the latter shouldn’t be overlooked. ’ ”   One extra area of value AT&T can provide is letting its   mobile customers stream TV without it counting toward their   data caps, Goncalves said. And AT&T’s foothold in wireless   will help it guide DirecTV now if viewing patterns go even more   mobile. ” ’   For Goncalves, the key to success in this live streaming TV   effort will be scale. There could be niche   services that   passionate audiences will pay a monthly fee for. Goncalves   mentions Crunchyroll, an   streaming service that has   built a thriving business. ’ ’   But for DirecTV Now, AT&T doesn’t want to go niche. ’ ’   That’s one reason Goncalves isn’t a fan of “skinny bundles,”   which promise things like 25 great channels for $25 per month. He   doesn’t hold with the idea that you could create a     package that is good for most households. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’