’  ’ ”   America’s biggest banks are closing hundreds of branches. ” ’   Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan   shut 389 branches since the third quarter of last   year.  ’ ’   Bank of America, which had over 6, 000 branches before the   financial crisis has now shrank to 4, 629, according to third   quarter accounts.  The bank has cut 112 financial   centers from last year.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   ” ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ”   And the cuts aren’t just in terms of bank branches but also in   headcount. Bank of America   ” ”   Bank of America isn’t the only bank to restructure its   branches. When Citigroup announced its     earnings last Friday, October 14, it revealed its branch count   has shrunk 7% in North America from the third quarter of last   year and is down 116 banks globally to 2, 679. ” ’  ’ ’   Earlier this year, Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions   (GPS)  that found that banks are quickly approaching   their ”automation tipping point,” and they could soon reduce   headcount by as much as 30%. ’ ’   ”Banks’’ Uber moment will mean a disintermediation of bank   branches rather than the banks themselves,” the report said. ’ ’   ”Specifically, it will mean the shift to mobile distribution   being the main channel of interaction between customers and   the bank,” the report reads. ’ ’  ’ ’   That means that there will be less need for bank branches, and   the people who work inside them. ’ ’   JPMorgan has also been cutting back on the number of retail   branches, with 161 less branches this quarter than the third   quarter of last year. 3Q 2016 stores stand at 5, 310, down from   5, 471 in the same quarter last year.  ’ ’  ’ ’   JPMorgan is also  who  more likely to use   mobile banking.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Whether Wells Fargo realizes it or not, they’’re going to be   closing 1, 000 branches,” CLSA bank analyst Mike Mayo   . ”It’’s a matter of when, not if.” ’ ”   While traditional retail banks shift their focus to digital   models, others not in the consumer space, like Goldman Sachs, are   launching. Online only GS Bank launched this   past April and Goldman’s new consumer lending arm, Marcus,   launched earlier this month.  ” ’  ’ ’  ’