’  ’ ’   AT&T has a secret program called Hemisphere that allows law   enforcement to obtain call metadata on targeted individuals    according to a new   report in The Daily Beast. ’ ’   While Hemisphere  in 2013 by The New York Times, the Daily   Beast reported on new documents it obtained that showed the   program is much larger than initially thought, and that law   enforcement does not need a search warrant before using the   database, but instead needs only an administrative subpoena. ’ ’   Probable cause is needed before issuing a search warrant,   but an administrative subpoena only requires a government agent   to declare the information they may obtain  to an investigation. ’ ”   AT&T received more than 103, 000 subpoenas from January to   June of this year, but only about 20, 000 search warrants showing   probable cause,  to the company’s transparency report. The report   does not offer specifics. ” ’   The Times  in 2013 that Hemisphere was a ”partnership” between   AT&T and federal and local law enforcement engaged in drug   investigations, where the government was paying the company to   place its employees with   units throughout the   country.  ’ ’’ ’   The program, started in 2007, is highly secretive. Training   slides  by the Times detail steps to protect the program   from public view and ”keep the program under the radar.” Law   enforcement agencies who use the program, the slides show, are   also instructed to never refer to Hemisphere by name in official   documents. ’ ”   To query Hemisphere, law enforcement agencies  —   which pay   anywhere from $77, 000 to $1 million a year for access  —   need   to make a request for data on a given phone number,   according to the Daily Beast’s report. The request is made   to an AT&T employee who will mine the database and give   law enforcement the information within, which includes phone   metadata, such as call times, who was called, and the location of   the subscriber’s phone, the report says. ” ’   This data, however, is not to be used as evidence in court,   documents obtained by the Daily Beast show. ’ ’   Since evidence obtained through Hemisphere cannot be used, it’’s   clear that law enforcement must instead use it to find other   evidence it can legitimately use in a courtroom without   indicating the initial source  —   a controversial practice known as   ”parallel construction.”  ’ ’   The DEA  in investigations they are   initially tipped to by classified intelligence given   by the CIA or NSA. ’ ’   ”Our investigations must be transparent. We must be able to take   our information to court and prove to a jury that our bad guy did   the bad things we say he did,” a training slide from the DEA,    in 2014, reads. ”However, we are also bound to   protect certain pieces of information so as to protect the   sources and methods.” ’ ’   While the Times focused on the   aspect of the program,   it turns out that Hemisphere has been used in other ways, such as   in homicide investigations or Medicaid fraud. ’ ’   ”Like other communications companies, if a government agency   seeks customer call records through a subpoena, court order or   other mandatory legal process, we are required by law to provide   this   information, such as the phone numbers and the   date and time of calls,” Fletcher Cook, a spokesperson for   AT&T, told Business Insider. ’