’  ’ ”   Google’s ambitious plan to spread   internet   service across the US has hit a bump in the road as the group   leading the charge scales back its operations and is roiled   by a management shake up.  ” ’   Craig Barratt,  ’ ’  ’ ”   The move marks a significant setback for one of   parent company Alpahbet’s most   and   ambitious projects. And it represents the latest sign of   turmoil among Alphabet’s collection of subsidiary companies,   coming on the heels of  and Google’s Project Wing drone group. ” ”   The change is likely to raise questions about Alphabet’s   committment to the diverse   projects under its roof,   particularly ahead of the company’s quarterly earnings report on   Thursday. ” ’   In an emailed statement to Business Insider, Alphabet CEO Larry   Page said the company was not abandoning its role in the internet   service business. ’ ’   ”I’’m excited about the potential of providing super fast internet   to more people. Craig has worked hard to scale this business, and   I look forward to continue working with him in his new role as an   Advisor,” Page said. ’ ’   Barratt, a former CEO of wireless chip company Atheros who joined   Google in 2013, will stay at Google parent Alphabet as an   advisor. Google has tapped a trio of Access executives, including   longserving Access member Milo Medin, to lead the group on an   interim basis while it looks for a replacement for Barratt. ’ ’   Google said it will continue to offer its Fiber service in   cities where it has launched, but it has pulled the plug on plans   to expand to Los Angeles, Portland, Oregon and a handful of other   cities. ’ ’    ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Google Fiber started offering Gigabit speed internet access   to Kansas City residents in 2010, expanding the service to a   handful of other cities aftewards. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the effort, which involves digging up streets and gettting   access rights to utility poles, is extremely costly and   subject to a .  ’ ”   Google Fiber is among the most capital intensive of Alphabet’s     Other Bet companies. In the second quarter, the    on revenue   of $185 million. ” ’   Over the past year or so, Access has increasingly turned its   sights to wireless technology as an alternative means of   delivering high speed access to consumers, . ’ ’   According to the person familiar with the matter, the Access   group is halting Fiber rollout plans in the new cities because it   has decided to refocus the service on wireless, which is   ultimately a much faster way to roll out internet service across   cities. ’ ’   As Business Insider has previously reported, the company is   currently  that can best serve   the differing environments and landscapes of various   cities.  ’