’  ’ ”   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   The Republican Party’s   run in the   majority of the U. S. Senate is at serious risk and may well end   on Nov. 8, senior congressional aides said on Wednesday, blaming   Donald Trump as a drag on   Republican candidates. ” ’   With 13 days to go before elections, several Senate aides from   both parties privately warned of trouble for Republicans. ’ ’   ”Things are not good . .. the Senate is gone,” said one Republican   aide who asked not to be identified in order to candidly discuss   the turbulent outlook for the 2016 campaign. ’ ’   Citing opinion polling, the aide said Republicans could lose   Senate seats in six battleground states: Pennsylvania, Illinois,   Wisconsin, New Hampshire, North Carolina and Missouri. ’ ’   A   poll released on Wednesday and conducted from   Oct. 20 to Oct. 24 found that 41 percent of Republicans now   expect Clinton to win the election, versus 40 percent for Trump. ’ ’’ ”   That is a sharp decline in confidence from last month, when 58   percent of Republicans said they thought their party’s nominee   would win, versus 23 percent for Clinton. ” ”   Republicans now hold 54 of the Senate’s 100 seats. Democrats must   snatch four seats to win a majority, provided their presidential   candidate, Hillary Clinton, beats Trump. That would make   Clinton’s running mate, Tim Kaine, the   Senate vote   since the vice president votes in order to break a tie. ” ’   On Tuesday, the nonpartisan Cook Political Report predicted   Democrats would gain five to seven seats. Such a result would   leave them short of the 60 votes needed to easily get things done   in the Senate, but it would provide a majority. ’ ’   A less pessimistic Senate Republican aide said Senate control   still ”could go either way” but sketched out problems. ’ ’   In Pennsylvania, the aide said, Senator Pat Toomey has to ”fight   off dead weight at the top of the ticket,” referring to Trump. In   Missouri, he said, Democrat Jason Kander, who is trying to unseat   Senator Roy Blunt, is ”a great candidate.” ’ ’   Nationally, ”the reason we don’’t hold the Senate, if we don’’t, is   because of Donald Trump,” the aide said. ’ ’   Of course, this has been a volatile and unpredictable year, and   there is still time for trends to reverse. Democrats stressed   they are not breaking out the champagne. ’ ’   According to RealClear Politics, Toomey leads by 1. 8 percentage   points in Pennsylvania while Blunt is up by a point in strongly   Republican Missouri and Senator Richard Burr has a 2.  lead   in North Carolina over his Democratic challenger. ’ ’   Still, a senior Senate Democratic aide said, ”We have a lot more   paths to a majority than they do.” ’ ’   Republicans entered the 2016 Senate races at a disadvantage,   having to defend 24 seats to only 10 for Democrats. ’ ’   Democratic President Barack Obama, who is still relatively   popular, won at least one of his two White House races in most of   the states where Republicans currently are struggling, such as   New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Nevada. ’ ’   Clinton leads Trump by about 5 points in some national polls.   Studies show a pattern of voting in recent decades in which the   outcome of Senate races has had a significant correlation to who   wins the White House. ’ ”   Polling in the   states points to extremely close   races with Republican incumbents’ backs against the wall. ” ’   In New Hampshire, Republican incumbent Kelly Ayotte is in a tough   race with her Democratic challenger, Governor Maggie Hassan.   University of New Hampshire political science professor Dante   Scala said Republican senators in that state and Pennsylvania   face the ”  punch” of independent voters potentially being   turned off by Trump and an electorate that leans Democratic in   presidential election years like 2016. ’ ’   ”Given the overall environment, it tilts to Hassan,” Scala said. ’