’Today, Apple  its   lineup of laptops, the MacBook Pro, for the first time in four years.’ ’The most visible new feature was the  a thin horizontal touch screen that sits along the top row of the keyboard, replacing the   function keys.’ ’It looks like this:’ ’’ ”The items that appear on the Touch Bar will vary depending on what app you’re using, or what you want to do. If you have Safari open, you’ll use it to scroll through favorite sites or open tabs. If you’re in iTunes, it’ll let you control the music.” ”If you’re doing email or messaging, you can use it to pick emoji:” ’’ ’If you believe Apple design guru  the Touch Bar has been in development for more than two years. ’ ”It’s also an expensive  : the   laptop with the Touch Bar costs $300 more than the same laptop without it.” ”In the demos, it looks really cool. It’s colorful and interesting and fun.  (We couldn’t try it yet because the laptops that ship with it won’t be available for another two to three weeks. )” ”But functionally, it doesn’t make much sense.” ”When you’re using a keyboard to type and select commands, you’re not looking down. To use the Touch Bar, you’re going to have to interrupt your flow, look down, slide your finger along the strip, and then get back into whatever you were doing before.” ’It also would have been just as easy for Apple, with its massive resources and hardware expertise, to ship new MacBooks with touch screens and put the exact same functional commands in a strip along the bottom of the screen.’ ’Touchscreen computers are also useful in other ways. You can reach out to move windows around, zoom in, swipe through different windows, and so on. You know, like you do on the iPad. Which Apple invented. Which sent Microsoft into such a panic that it recreated Windows to be   leading to an explosion of new touchscreen laptops. ’ ’But Apple refuses to go there.’ ’’ ”In other words, Apple is admitting that touch is a useful interface on a traditional computer. But for some reason, it thinks users will want to interrupt their flow to look down and touch a narrow strip running along the top of the keyboard, instead of touching the beautiful massive display that they’re already looking at as they type.” ’What really seems to be going on here is pure stubbornness.’ ”Back in 2012, Microsoft was talking up Windows 8, its forthcoming operating system that would support both touch and   usage. An analyst asked Apple CEO Tim Cook about Apple’s plans to do something similar, and he quipped, ” ’’ ’’ ’’ ’’