”   Democratic National Committee chair Donna Brazille offered an   unusually styled response to the FBI’s announcement that it was   continuing its investigation into whether Hillary   Clinton mishandled classified information while serving as   secretary of state. ” ”   In a tweet Friday afternoon, Brazille appeared to offer  —   in   the form of an acrostic poem  —   an assessment of the media   coverage of the FBI’s announcement. ” ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tFear:F.   FalseE.   EvidenceA.   AppearingR.   Real’t’t’ ’   On Friday, FBI Director James Comey wrote a letter to   congressional leaders informing them that it learned of ”the   existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the   investigation.” ’ ”   The emails were reportedly discovered by agency   investigators looking into former congressman Anthony   Weiner’s alleged explicit messages with a   .   Weiner is the estranged husband of close Clinton adviser Huma   Abedin, who filed for divorce from Weiner earlier this year. ” ’   ”The FBI cannot yet assess whether or not this material may be   significant,” . ”I cannot predict how long it will take us to   complete this additional work.” ’ ”   Shortly after Friday’s FBI announcement, Clinton campaign chair   John Podesta demanded Comey release more information   regarding the continued investigation. ” ’   ”It is extraordinary that we would see something like this just   11 days out from a presidential election,” Podesta said. ”The   Director owes it to the American people to immediately provide   the full details of what he is now examining. We are confident   this will not produce any conclusions different from the one the   FBI reached in July.” ’ ’   Some   commentators took to social media to   criticize what they viewed as a media overreaction to the   continued investigation. ’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tAfter a DEFCON 1 freakout, we now know the emails in question were:1) Not from Hillary2) Not from her sever 3) Not from her investigation’t’t’ ’’ ’ ’t’t’tIt’’s bad enough having the media do the ”raises questions,”   innuendo thing. Worse when the FBI director does it. Disgraceful’t’t’ ’ ’t’t’tComey ought to clarify further what’s going on, but Team Blue going overboard with this stuff.  ’ ’    ’ ’ ’t’t’tEvery news org today:FBI reopening Clinton investigation! FBI will investigate new emailsEmails weren’t from ClintonMaybe we overreacted’t’t’