’  ’ ”   The decision made by the FBI director to alert Congress that the   agency was  into Hillary Clinton’s private server was   contrary to the recommendation of the attorney general, according   to two reports published on Saturday.  ” ’ and  reported Attorney   General Loretta Lynch had expressed to FBI Director   James Comey her view that the law enforcement agency should   follow the longstanding practice of not commenting on ongoing   investigations  —   especially with less than two weeks to go until   Election Day. ’ ’   Comey felt compelled to do otherwise, as  to FBI   employees showed. ’ ’   ”We don’’t ordinarily tell Congress about ongoing investigations,   but here I feel an obligation to do so given that I testified   repeatedly in recent months that our investigation was   completed,” Comey said, noting his testimony in front of the   House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. ”I also think   it would be misleading to the American people were we not to   supplement the record.” ’ ’   Speaking to The New Yorker, current and former federal legal   officials characterized the action as a striking break with DOJ   policies  —   one that officials feel could potentially affect the   outcome of the presidential and congressional elections in less   than two weeks. ’ ’’ ’   ”You don’t do this,” one former senior DOJ official exclaimed to   The New Yorker. ”It’s aberrational. It violates decades of   practice . .. it impugns the integrity and reputation of the   candidate, even though there’s no finding by a court, or in this   instance even an indictment. ” ’ ’ officials acknowledged   that Lynch, who had a difference of opinion with Comey, could do   little given the bad optics and fallout over her summer meeting   with former President Bill Clinton on an airplane in Arizona. ’ ”   CNN reported that no DOJ officials signed off on Comey’s   decision, but he didn’t seek their approval, according to an   official, who added that Comey’s decision to send the letter   broke with another longstanding Justice Department and FBI policy   not to comment publicly about politically sensitive   investigations with less than 60 days to go until an election. ” ’ from Comey led   to a wave of panic on the left and a chorus of cheers on the   right. But both sides wanted extended information released to   either quench those fears or back up their assertions. ’ ’   It was perhaps the most politically consequential letter Comey   could have issued. With under two weeks to go until Election Day,   calls for additional information came flying in. ’ ’   In his letter to congressional leaders, Comey said the team   in charge of looking into Clinton’’s use of a private email server   briefed him Thursday on new emails it found ”in connection with   an unrelated case.” ’ ’   ”The FBI cannot yet assess whether or not this material may be   significant,” Comey wrote, adding, ”I cannot predict how long it   will take us to complete this additional work.” ’ ’   Reports later indicated the additional emails uncovered were   in connection with an investigation into the sexting scandal   surrounding former Rep. Anthony Weiner  —   the estranged husband of   top Clinton aide Huma Abedin. ’ ’   The  of the new   information were capped by a press conference convened by   Clinton on Friday evening, during which she insisted the FBI   director must release ”pertinent” information ”immediately.” ’ ’   “The American people deserve to get the full and complete facts   immediately,” Clinton told reporters before taking questions. ’