BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   Hundreds of Syrian men who escaped   areas of eastern Aleppo to reach   parts of the city are missing, United Nations officials said on Friday, adding that they had received reports of government reprisals, including numerous arrests and several cases of summary killings of suspected supporters of the opposition. At the same time, the officials said, some rebel groups have prevented civilians from leaving and even killed or kidnapped those who demanded that insurgents leave their neighborhoods. The United Nations reports largely reflect what residents of East Aleppo have told The New York Times in recent days as Syrian government forces retook control of most of the city. Several have said family members were detained, arrested or conscripted after crossing into   areas, and one resident recounted how rebels in the Bustan   neighborhood stopped people from leaving. Other residents, however, said rebels had helped them cross the front lines or warned them not to go at certain times or in certain places because of the danger. Rebel groups inside east Aleppo are fragmented and do not always act in concert. As government forces continued to advance on Friday, panic was growing among those still trapped inside, who either could not make their way out or were afraid to enter government territory. More than 10, 500 people have left   areas in the last 24 hours, Russian officials said on Friday, nearly half of them children, while others have moved deeper into the   district under intense bombardment. At the same time, government forces have escorted hundreds of the displaced back to recently retaken districts, such as the Bab   district below. But those areas are heavily damaged, and officials have told families to move into any available abandoned apartments. In areas the government has recently retaken, like this one south of Aleppo, it has placed posters of President Bashar   amid rubble and handed out Syrian government flags. Many people who escaped eastern Aleppo have been filmed thanking government troops and their ally, Russia, and chanting praise for Mr. Assad. In the newly retaken Bab   neighborhood, a man greeted a   fighter. But for those viewed as opposing the government and men wanted for army service, there is a riskier side to entering government territory. Rupert Colville, a spokesman for the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, said family members had reported that they had lost contact with men aged 30 to 50, echoing several interviews The Times conducted in which Aleppo residents said their males relatives were arrested or forced to join the army. “Given the terrible record of arbitrary detention, torture and enforced disappearances by the Syrian government, we are of course deeply concerned about the fate of these individuals,” Mr. Colville said. He also said that two members of the   forces that took over Aleppo’s   neighborhood were reported to have summarily shot four men in front of their families on Sunday because they were suspected of working with the opposition. The last two weeks have seen the fiercest bombardments yet of   districts. Those still inside describe chaos and intense crowding in some areas as people scramble for shelter. They said wounded people and bodies were left in the streets with no one to help them. Here, what is believed to be the charred body of a rebel fighter can be seen in retaken Bab  . Mr. Colville said the agency had heard reports that two armed opposition groups had abducted and killed an unknown number of civilians who asked them to leave their neighborhoods. He added that residents trying to leave the Bustan   neighborhood may have come under fire from armed opposition groups, something that could amount to the war crime of  . “Civilians are caught between warring parties that appear to be operating in flagrant violation of international humanitarian law,” Mr. Colville said. “All sides are deeply culpable. ” The government has retaken most of the medieval Old City, a Unesco World Heritage site severely damaged by years of fighting. At its center is the citadel, which the government has held and used as a fortress throughout the conflict. The government’s offensive over the last week has left rebels in east Aleppo facing   defeat. On Friday, Russian officials said that 93 percent of Aleppo had been captured by the Syrian Army. There has been some talk of at least a temporary   to allow for evacuation of the city, but on Friday, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said that military operations “will go on until bandits leave eastern Aleppo. ” Mr. Lavrov said he still had hope of reaching a final resolution for the city in talks with the United States, but Jan Egeland, the United Nations’ humanitarian chief, on Thursday described the two countries as being “poles apart. ” At the United Nations on Friday, Russia suffered a sharp diplomatic blow when a large majority of members voted for a mildly worded, legally nonbinding General Assembly resolution calling for a pause in fighting and access to humanitarian aid in Syria. In practice, the resolution means little, with no specifics and no force of law. So Syria and Russia, which lobbied vigorously against the resolution, can continue their military operations, including those on the   parts of Aleppo. The resolution, advanced by Canada, received 122 votes in favor and 13 against.   members abstained. The no votes included Syria, its chief allies Iran and Russia, along with China, Cuba and Venezuela. It comes days after Russia, along with China, defeated a resolution in the Security Council that would have imposed a   cessation of hostilities to allow aid into besieged parts of Aleppo and allow residents to get out.