’  ’ ”   Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid has joined the onslaught of   criticism from Democrats against James Comey, on Sunday accusing   the FBI director of playing partisan politics and saying he may   have violated federal law by revealing that his office was   continuing the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a   private email server. ” ’   ”Your actions in recent months have demonstrated a disturbing   double standard for the treatment of sensitive information, with   what appears to be a clear intent to aid one political party over   another,” Reid wrote to Comey  published on the senator’’s website. ’ ’   Comey  that   the FBI would renew the Clinton email investigation after finding   potential new evidence in an unrelated investigation of former   congressman Anthony Weiner. ’ ’   Top Clinton campaign staffers have accused Comey of breaking with   department guidelines for informing the public about ongoing   investigations, describing his actions as an attempt to influence   the results of the presidential election. ’ ’   But Reid’’s comments may be the fiercest condemnation yet of   Comey. The outgoing Senate minority leader said Comey’’s actions   may have violated the  a federal   law that ensures ”that federal programs are administered in a   nonpartisan fashion.” ’ ”   Reid argued that Comey had demonstrated a double standard, making   an explosive claim that the FBI director was withholding   information about Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s   possible ties to Russia. ” ’   ”In my communications with you and other top officials in the   national security community, it has become clear that you possess   explosive information about close ties and coordination between   Donald Trump, his top advisors, and the Russian government  —   a   foreign interest openly hostile to the United States, which Trump   praises at every opportunity,” Reid said. ’ ’   He continued: ’ ”   Reid echoed the frustrations of several of Clinton’s surrogates,   who have insisted that the newly discovered emails that attracted   the FBI’s interest may be duplicates of ones already reviewed by   the FBI. ” ’  ’ ’   ”The clear   established by your actions strongly   suggests that your highly selective approach to publicizing   information, along with your timing, was intended for the success   or failure of a partisan candidate or political group,” Reid   said. ’ ’   Comey was a registered Republican for most of his life, though he   said in July that he was  with any party. ’ ’   Reid, who is not seeking reelection in November, ended his letter   to Comey bluntly. ’ ’   ”Please keep in mind that I have been a supporter of yours in the   past,” he said. ”When Republicans filibustered your nomination   and delayed your confirmation longer than any previous nominee to   your position, I led the fight to get you confirmed because I   believed you to be a principled public servant. ’ ’   ”With the deepest regret, I now see that I was wrong.” ’ ’ ’