’  ’ ”   Federal investigators have secured a warrant to examine newly   discovered emails related to Hillary Clinton’s private server,   media outlets reported on Sunday. ” ’   The warrant will allow the FBI to examine the emails to see   whether they are relevant to its investigation of the private   email server used by Clinton, the Democratic presidential   nominee, while she was secretary of state from 2009 to 2013. ’ ’   FBI officials were unavailable for comment on the status of their   investigation, according to Reuters. ’ ”   Clinton’s campaign spent Sunday vigorously pushing back against   the FBI. ” ”   Following Friday’s announcement that the bureau discovered emails   on former congressman Anthony Weiner’s laptop from his estranged   wife, Huma Abedin, that passed through Clinton’s private server,   top Clinton campaign officials fanned out over cable news on   Sunday’s political talk shows to criticize Comey’s decision to   publicly announce the renewal of the investigation into Clinton’s   email. ” ’   In an appearance on Fox News on Sunday, Clinton campaign manager   Robby Mook said he was ”very surprised” by Comey’’s letter   informing congressional leaders of the discovering of potential   new emails. Mook said he found the letter ”very strange,”   highlighting reports that the FBI was  to review the emails, and argued   that reporters were reading too much significance into Comey’’s   ambiguous letter. ’ ’   ”Director Comey has put out a letter,” Mook said. ”It has three   paragraphs. It says nothing about Huma Abedin. It says nothing   about who these emails are to or from. It just says that he has   information that may be significant  —   we don’’t even know it if   is.” ’ ”   Other aides argued that the announcement broke with the   Department of Justice’s guidelines for informing the public about   ongoing investigations. ” ”   John Podesta, Clinton’s campaign chair, on CNN reiterated his   concern that Comey was unnecessarily influencing the presidential   election without giving voters enough information about the   status of the investigation. ” ’   ”To throw this in the middle of the campaign 11 days out seemed   to break with precedent and be inappropriate at this stage,”   Podesta said. ’ ’   He added: ”He might’’ve taken the first step of actually having   looked at them before he did this in the middle of a presidential   campaign so close to voting.” ’ ”   Clinton’s running mate, Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia, similarly   cited reports that maintained Comey and his team didn’t know the   contents of the emails before informing Congress and that he   overstepped his bounds by making an announcement before he   provided clarifying information. ” ’   ”If he hasn’t seen the emails, they need to make that plain and   release the circumstances of those once they have done the   analysis,” Kaine . ”That’’s what Hillary said immediately when she   spoke to the press on Friday. She said you can’’t break both   protocols and leave it up in the air with a question mark. You   owe people the complete information.” ’ ’   The campaign released a video on social media later on Sunday   detailing how initial reporting of the story did not include key   information, saying the emails could be duplicates of those the   FBI had already revealed. Narrated by press secretary Brian   Fallon, the video called Comey’’s letter ”light on facts” and   ”heavy on innuendo” and suggested that it was further ammunition   for Republicans to use against the Democratic presidential   nominee. ’ ’   ”The more information that has come out, the more overblown this   all seems,” Fallon said. ”And the more concern it has created   about Director Comey’’s actions.” ’ ’   Later in the video, he added: ”Republicans have been trying to   use Hillary Clinton’’s emails to bring her down since the very   beginning of this campaign.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tYesterday, FBI Director Comey bowed to partisan pressure and released a vague and inappropriate letter to Congress. What you need to know:  ’ ’ Reuters contributed reporting for this article. ’