’  ’ ”   In   150 armed men descended on a small community called   La Tuna in the central highlands of Mexico’s Sinaloa state,   . ” ’   The gunmen, who are believed to have been affiliated with the   Beltran Leyva Organization (BLO) also forced Consuelo Loera, the   mother of Sinaloa cartel chief Joaquín ”El Chapo” Guzmán, from   her home. ’ ”   It now appears that the attack on La Tuna was a   point   for a clash of cartels that has caused violence to spike   throughout much of Mexico and injected uncertainty into the   future of one of the country’s most powerful cartels. ” ’   The attack in La Tuna came about six months after Guzmán himself   was recaptured in northwest Sinaloa state, six months after   he pulled off his second jailbreak in July 2015. ’ ’   The attack was also  led by Alfredo Beltran Guzmán, ”El   Chapo” Guzmán’’s nephew and the oldest son of Alfredo Beltran   Leyva, the imprisoned head of the BLO, which was allied with the   Sinaloa cartel . ’ ’  ’ ”   In   this year,  by   elements of the Jalisco New Generation cartel (CJNG)  between   Mexico’s two most powerful cartels. ” ”   It reportedly took the  of   cartel leaders and   former leaders as well as the federal government to secure the   release of the sons and avoid a larger war between the CJNG and   the Sinaloa cartel. Even though they were returned unharmed a few   days later, their abduction is an ominous sign for their father’s   cartel. ” ’   That kidnapping,  to Mexican journalist Anabel   Hernandez, could be considered the first time we saw that Guzmán   ”no longer controls even his own house.” ’ ’   The events this summer, and recent attacks in and around Sinaloa   state mean ”maybe we are for the first time seeing the true fall   of Chapo Guzmán with all the consequences that this may bring,”   Hernandez, an expert on Mexico’’s narco world,  Aristegui Noticias. ’ ’   ”And this is not a fall brought about by the government but by   his own family,” Hernandez  referring to the involvement of   Alfredo Beltran Guzmán. ’ ’   According to Hernandez, Alfredo Beltran and the remnants of the   BLO are allied with the ascendant CJNG, which is clashing with   the Sinaloa cartel in several parts of the country, particularly   on the west coast and in . ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Right now there’’s only two major drug cartels in Mexico: Sinaloa   cartel, which . .. remains the most powerful, and then the Jalisco   New Generation cartel,” Mike Vigil, a former head of   international operations for the US Drug Enforcement   Administration, told Business Insider. The  originating   from a cell of the Sinaloa cartel based in southwest Mexico   around Jalisco state. ’ ”   The  but most of its   growth was initially in the southwest and southeast. As the   cartel’s ambitions have grown, however, it seems to have turned   its sights on valuable territory held by the Sinaloa cartel. ” ’   ”It’’s not very lucrative for them to move from coast to coast,   east to west. They’’ve got to move northward and take control of   some of the lucrative corridors coming into the United States,”   Vigil told Business Insider. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”And what is the most lucrative corridor along the     Mexican border? That’’s the   Diego corridor, which is   the busiest land port of entry in the world,” he added. ’ ’   Earlier this year,    clashes in   and around Tijuana between elements of the Sinaloa cartel   and the CJNG, which has allied with what is left of the Arellano   Felix Organization, a criminal group  by the   Sinaloa cartel in the 2000s. ’ ”      competition in the city has driven    there since   early last year. (Baja California Sur, south of Baja California,   has also reportedly seen    as the CJNG moves on the Sinaloa cartel’s interests.) ” ’   Clashes involving the Sinaloa cartels and CJNG have also stricken   parts of Mexico along the Pacific coast. ’ ’  ’ ’   In Guerrero, fighting over lucrative opium and marijuana   cultivation and trafficking routes has . ’ ’   Acapulco, a picturesque beach town on the state’’s coast, has been   so marred by violence that it’’s been called ”.” ’ ’   In the tiny state of Colima, spiraling violence has been   attributed to  a   strategically valuable port for any trafficking organization. ’ ’   The homicide rate in Colima, home to about 700, 000 people,    close to   five times the national rate. ’ ”   Sinaloa state itself appears to be ground zero for attacks on the   Sinaloa cartel’s interests. ” ’   The 853 homicides the state has seen through September this year   are almost as many as the 993 the state registered through all of   2015. ’ ’   And of those 853 homicides recorded in the first months of this   year, 588, or 68. 9% were   related,  to one report. ’ ”   A   report from Sinaloa newspaper  the Sinaloa cartel, led by Ivan Archivaldo   Guzmán, one of El Chapo’s sons, has been preparing for war with   the CJNG in areas that cartel controls in Sinaloa and Jalisco   states. ” ’   In days between the Guzmán sons’’ kidnapping and that Ríodoce    several people were executed in Sinaloa, one   of whom was left with a message threatening ”El Mayo” Zambada and   El Chapo himself. A few days later, one of Zambada’’s nephews was   killed. ’ ’   An assault launched on a military convoy at the end of   September added another layer of complexity to this   burgeoning cartel clash. ’ ’  ’ ’   Military vehicles were transporting a wounded suspect (allegedly   a cousin of ”El Chapo” Guzmán) to the state capital, Culiacan,   when they came  from a large contingent of   heavily armed men. Five soldiers were killed and several more   wounded. ’ ”   Authorities suspected that Guzmán’s sons were behind the attack,   trying to free the prisoner, but they denied it through their   father’s lawyer, and the perpetrator remains . ” ”   While she said it wasn’t clear who was behind the ambush,   Hernandez  Alfredo Beltran Guzmán, of the BLO,   could have organized it to cause turmoil on Guzmán’s home   turf. ” ’   Whomever the culprit, the attack attracted attention, as the   Mexican government  to the area in    . ’ ’   That brought the total force in central Sinaloa state to 6, 000   troops tasked with enforcing the rule of law  —   though officials   have said military personnel there spend much of their time    that continue   to crop up there. ’ ’   Violence has cropped up in many parts of Mexico, but the   fragmented nature of the fighting, and of the combatants,   differentiates it from past periods of conflict. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The Sinaloa and CJNG organizations understand that violence is   often bad for business,” James Bosworth, CEO of the     firm Southern Pulse, told Business Insider in   late August. ”That means we’’ll see state by state flareups over   the coming months and years, but it’’s unlikely to be a national   level cartel war.” ’ ”   And despite the number of    clashes around   Mexico, it’s not clear that the CJNG and the Sinaloa cartel are   behind or involved all of them. The  is   likely to blame for some of the upswing in lethal violence Mexico   has seen over the last year. ” ’   In places like  and  a wide array of regional groups   are competing for influence (though some of them are allied with   either the Sinaloa or CJNG cartels.) In Chihuahua, home of Ciudad   Juarez,  to   Sinaloa infighting and a resurgent Juarez cartel. ’ ’  ’ ’   In northeast Mexico, particularly  brutal warfare between the Zetas   and Gulf cartels has largely given way to fighting between   factions of the Zetas cartel, which has often flared up   near the Texas border. ’ ”   Some of this fragmentation, at least in western Mexico, may have   been kicked off by Guzmán’s first capture in early 2014, a moment   that appears to bookend a few years of Sinaloa cartel dominance   in the country. ” ’ I   think it was directly related to the capture of Chapo Guzmán,”   David Shirk, a professor at the University of San Diego, told   Business Insider in September, adding: ’ ’   Total homicides in Mexico went up in 2015, and 2016  —   which has   seen record monthly homicide totals   —   seems   poised to hit homicide levels not seen since 2011,  under former   President Felipe Calderon. ’ ’  ’ ”   Peña Nieto’s administration was heralded for the reductions in   violence Mexico saw in 2013 and 2014, the first two years of   his   term in office. ” ”   But in recent months, as homicides continue to rise, his   government doesn’t seem to have      response than his predecessor, Calderon. ” ”   Going forward, it’s likely that Mexico will see continued   violence, driven by the   conflict in the criminal   underworld. ” ’  ’ ’   The CJNG appears poised to keep    seizing control of the methamphetamine trade in the country and   corrupting local police and government officials. ’ ’   For the Sinaloa cartel, the outlook is less certain. ’ ”   In the aftermath of Guzmán’s January arrest, it was thought    though the nature of the cartel’s leadership structure   and its health aren’t clear. ” ”   Mexico’s cartel landscape in general have always been   somewhat inscrutable, and the  in   particular have often been hard to gauge because it is   something of a decentralized organization, with factions that are   thought to act somewhat .  ” ’  ’ ’The bigger divide appears to be between the CJNG   and Sinaloa Cartel, which appear to be increasing their conflict   with each other,” Bosworth, of Southern Pulse, told Business   Insider. ”The conflict with [the CJNG] seems to be escalating,”   Vigil said in  . ’ ’   In the aftermath of Guzmán’’s most recent capture, ”what we   know is that the result for the Sinaloa cartel has been newfound   uncertainty, and uncertainty in a monopolistic, violent,     marketplace is bad,” Shirk added. ”Uncertainty   means blood.” ’