’  ’ ”   Not since the Cold War have tensions between Russia and the West   reached the terrifying heights we’ve seen in recent months. ” ’   Russia now challenges the West in virtually every arena possible,   with   of     countries, and the intimidation of US allies . ’ ”   According to  the founding publisher of    and an avid   Russia’s resurgence   owes mainly to one thing: paranoia. ” ’   ”We’’ve seen the failure of democratic institutions in Russia.   It’’s not the open and free society that we had hoped for at the   end of the Cold War, and with that failure comes an insecurity on   the part of Moscow’’s leaders,” Lewis said of Russia’’s retreat   back toward dictatorship after the fall of the Soviet Union. ’ ’   Democracy provides countries like the US with a stable,   established path for power changing hands. In the US, politicians   serve at the pleasure of the people, who have legal and political   means to replace their leadership without revolting. ’ ’   But in Russia, where  between powerful,   connected oligarchs and regular Russian citizens, Lewis said, the   rulers are ”terrified that they’’re going to be toppled from   power, which they don’’t hold democratically or temporarily  —   they   fear a coup.” ’ ’   Lewis said the wisdom from  still holds. Kennan argued that the Soviet Union saw   itself in a ”capitalist encirclement” and could not peacefully   coexist with the capitalist, or Western, world. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”At bottom of Kremlin’’s neurotic view of world affairs is   traditional and instinctive Russian sense of insecurity,” Kennan   argued. ”Russian rulers have invariably sensed that their rule   was relatively archaic in form, fragile and artificial in its   psychological foundation, unable to stand comparison or contact   with political systems of Western countries.” ’ ’   Lewis contends that these conditions persist and that ”the way   they deal with that insecurity is bullying and threatening their   neighbors.” ’ ’   Russia has committed to ”build their security on the insecurity   of their neighbors,” Lewis said. And creating instability is as   easy as casting doubt, while creating stability requires   accountability and transparency, which the Russian state need not   bother with as it increasingly takes control of the country’’s   media. ’ ’   ”Interference with Ukraine and Baltics is part of that” will to   destabilize Russia’’s neighbors, Lewis said. Moscow’’s push for   chaos in the West can be seen, he said, in its ”” as well   as in its hacks on the US election system. ’ ’   ”It’’s important to them to tear us down to prove that we’’re just   as bad and corrupt as they are,” Lewis said. ’ ”   Unfortunately for the US, much of Russia’s campaign to discredit   Western institutions works. Republican presidential nominee   Donald Trump often touts information  an organization    and has  and   . ” ”   Russian President Vladimir Putin’s favorability numbers, which he   keeps  and oppressing dissenters, have also    this election cycle. ” ’  ’ ”   Lewis says Russia has funded several   nationalist   organizations in Europe, like that of France’s Marine Le Pen. The   rise of nationalistic,    seeking authoritarians on   the far right,  seems   to favor autocratic regimes like Putin’s. ” ”   In countries like Turkey and Hungary, powerful leaders with   nationalist rhetoric erode the democracies that brought them to   power. Those leaders then increasingly turn to Putin as an ally   who won’t fault them for attacking the press or other democratic   institutions. ” ’   Lewis said Russian leadership wanted Americans to think, “The   people who run the US are just as bad as the people who run   Russia,” adding that he found such tactics ”infuriating.” ’ ’   While examples of corruption and abuse can certainly be found in   Western, democratic governments, regular citizens and a free   press can freely speak out when they disagree with the rich and   powerful. This brings accountability to the government. ’ ”   Putin, on the other hand, doesn’t want free speech, dissent, or   rule by consensus; he wants order to provide the security his   authoritarian government so sorely lacks. ” ’   ”Russians just want a free hand to bully their neighbors,” Lewis   said. ”There is no level of Russian power that will make Putin   feel secure. There is nothing we can do that can make them   happy.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”If we gave them the Baltics, they’’d ask for Finland and Poland,”   Lewis said. ’ ’   But the US has very few options to deal with this menace. The US   allows free speech, and Russian propaganda and talking points   will no doubt continue to find their way into Western society.   Within Russia, Lewis said: ”Putin is consolidating power, and   he’’s paranoid. There’’s not much you can do. You can’’t fix it for   the Russians  —   they have to fix it themselves.” ’