’  ’ ’     When is a gaffe not a gaffe? When it is perfectly and     calculatedly intentional.   ’ ’     Last week, Arizona Sen. John McCain  that Senate Republicans “will be     united against any Supreme Court nominee that Hillary Clinton,     if she were president, would put up. ”   ’ ’     His campaign immediately tried to moderate this overt threat to     continue a Republican high court blockade after the election     with the promise that McCain would “thoroughly examine the     record of any Supreme Court nominee” the next president puts     forward. That sounded like a veiled promise to continue the     present course of unparalleled obstruction but to at least go     through the motions of holding hearings.   ’ ’     But even that breathtakingly antagonistic position might have     been a bit too confusing for GOP voters, who have been told     throughout this election that making sure another Democratic     appointee isn’t seated on the Supreme Court is of apocalyptic     importance. So the plan has now been clarified. Writing this     week in the Federalist, the Cato Institute’s Ilya     Shapiro argued that “as a matter of constitutional law, the     Senate is fully within its powers to . ” Shapiro then added, “If Hillary Clinton is     president it would be completely decent, honorable, and in     keeping with the Senate’s constitutional duty to vote against     essentially every judicial nominee she names. ”   ’ ’     Enhancing that clarity  —  a     man who’s never met a government shutdown he didn’t like. Asked     this week about Supreme Court vacancies, the man who once     proclaimed that the people should decide who takes over Antonin     Scalia’s seat in this next election showed unequivocally that     he was full of it: “There will be plenty of time for debate on     that issue, there is long historical precedent for a Supreme     Court with fewer justices. ” Then he added that “just recently     Justice [Stephen] Breyer observed that the vacancy is not     impacting the ability of the court to do its job, that’s a     debate that we are going to have. ”   ’ ’     And why is Cruz quoting Breyer, the Bill Clinton court     appointee, about a potential Hillary Clinton court appointment?     Well because Breyer —  in what is becoming a burgeoning rift with     Sonia Sotomayor, Elena Kagan, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and  —  has     been making the case that everything is ice cream and ponies at     the shorthanded high court.      to argue that the vacancy is barely felt. Pointing out that the     mechanics of the court work “about the same” with eight or nine     justices, Breyer said this:   ’ ’  ’ ’     Sotomayor sharply . “It’s much more     difficult for us to do our job,” she said at an event in     Minnesota earlier this month, “if we are not what we’re     intended to be―a court of nine. ” Justice Thomas also  albeit gently,     this week, explaining that in a city full of broken government,     the court is also subject to its own charges of brokenness. “At     some point, we are going to have to recognize that we are     destroying our institutions,” he said. When asked about whether     there’s any hope of improving the confirmation process, Thomas     added “there’s always hope. ” (This might be more hope than I am     able to muster.)   ’ ’     With threats now emanating from the Senate to continue this     blockade indefinitely, it’s time for the chief justice to weigh     in.   ’ ’     I have been writing for much of the year about the  behind the court’s decision to remain     above the partisan election fray. It makes perfect     institutional sense —  even as the candidates have tried to make     the future composition of the court the focus of the     election —  for the court itself to remain calm and carry on.   ’ ’     What can John Roberts say? It’s almost painfully simple.   ’ ’     But in this second to last week before the election, . The court is having trouble filling its docket. The     justices are declining to schedule   cases they had     previously agreed to hear. The justices are taking it upon     themselves to explain the situation to the country, and they do     not all appear to be on the same page. And now that some     Republicans are gleefully arguing that they may be legally able     to shrink the court down and drown it in a bathtub, the moment     has come for some institutional pushback. It needs to come from     the chief justice.   ’ ’     What can John Roberts say? It’s almost painfully simple. He can     say, in the most sober, measured, and nonpartisan fashion that     the court needs nine justices. He can note that although the     court began with six justices —  and from 1863 to 1866 had 10 —  the     Judiciary Act of 1869 stipulated that the court be made of nine     justices. He can note what happened to FDR when he attempted to     pack the court in 1937 and observe parenthetically that this     revolt came from the American public. He can also point out     that fluctuations in the authorized strength of the court came     with changes in the circuit courts, not recreational     obstruction in the Senate.   ’ ’     The chief justice might also point Cruz, McCain, Breyer, and     anyone else who might argue that eight is enough to the Supreme     Court’s official recusal policy, which provides that:   ’ ’  ’ ’     Roberts might add that  when he declined to take himself out of a case in     which he was accused of having a conflict of interest. As     Scalia noted at the time he might recuse himself only     if he were sitting on the Court of Appeals:   ’ ’     Then Roberts may point to his predecessor, Chief Justice     William H. Rehnquist. Declining to recuse himself in a 1972     case, Rehnquist wrote, “affirmance of [conflicting lower court     decisions]   …     by an equally divided court would lay down ‘one     rule in Athens, and another in Rome, with a vengeance.’ ” That     is precisely what happened at the end of the latest term with     4 —  4 gridlock in four key cases, including vital disputes over     the future of   unions, jurisdiction on tribal     lands, and of course President Obama’s executive action on     immigration.   ’ ’  ’ ’   There is a time for sober reticence, and then there’s a time when   it’s too late to repair the damage. Turning this already terrible   election into a referendum on whether voters should collude with   Senate Republicans to eviscerate the Supreme Court for the   foreseeable future is intolerable to both institutions.    allowing the court to dwindle to eight or even seven members as a   result of   obstruction would so undermine the   legitimacy of future rulings and someday justices that the court   might not ever recover. And as Georgia State University law   professor Eric Segall argued in the    this week: “Concern by the justices that speaking out may look   too political is silly. The court finds itself in this stalemate   because it is primarily a political institution to begin with.   And, as the third branch of the national government, the court   has a right to protect itself. ” ’ ’     We all agree the Supreme Court is best served by lofty     nonchalance about the casual nihilism that has characterized     the last eight months of debate over the future of the court.     And nobody doubts that if Senate Republicans are willing to     shutter the court rather than lose it, there is little the law     can do. But the one thing the court has left is the public     authority to make the case that just because something is     legal, doesn’t make it right. If the Republicans take the     Senate, it won’t matter that there was once a difference.   ’