’  ’ ’   Hillary Clinton said the FBI has ”no case” against her during a   speech at Kent State University in Ohio on Monday, adding that   voters shouldn’’t be ”distracted” by the latest FBI revelation. ’ ’   ”I am sure a lot of you may be asking what this new email story   is about and why in the world the FBI would decide to jump into   the election with no evidence of any wrongdoing with just days to   go,” she said. ”That is a good question.” ’ ’   ”And first of all, for those of you who are concerned about my   using personal email, I understand, and as I said, I am not   making excuses,” she continued. ”I have said it was a mistake and   I regret it, and now they apparently want to look at emails of   one of my staffers, and by all means they should look at them,   and I am sure they will reach the same conclusion when they   looked at my emails for the last year  —   there is no case here.” ’ ”   FBI Director James Comey  that the agency had   discovered new emails related to its probe into Clinton’s use of   a private server while she was secretary of state. Reports later   indicated the additional emails uncovered were in connection with   an investigation into former Rep. Anthony Weiner over allegations   he sexted with a    girl. Weiner’s estranged wife, Huma   Abedin, is a top Clinton aide. ” ”   A Sunday  indicated that   there could be as many as 650, 000 emails to sift through, and   it’s unknown how many could be related to Clinton. ” ’’ ’   Comey has faced backlash from Democrats and political analysts   for sending the letter. He went against the recommendation of the   Department of Justice in sending the letter to congressional   leaders, according to The Journal. ’ ’   In July, Comey announced the FBI had reached its conclusion and   that he would not recommend charges, later saying that no   prosecutor would. He did, however, say Clinton acted with   ”extreme carelessness” in using the private server. ’ ’   ”And they said it wasn’’t even a close call, and I think most   people have decided a long time ago what they think about all   this,” Clinton said on Monday. ”Now what people are focused on is   choosing the next president and commander in chief of the United   States of America.” ’ ’   She turned the discussion on to Republican nominee Donald Trump   and his past comments regarding the use of nuclear weapons as a   reason she believes he is temperamentally unfit for the   presidency. ’ ’   ”I’’m running against an opponent who says he doesn’’t understand   why we can’’t use nuclear weapons,” she said. ”He actually said   ’’Then why are we making them? ’’ And he wants more countries to   have nuclear weapons.” ’ ’   Clinton also mocked him for previously saying he doesn’’t need to   consult with experts on foreign policy because he has ”a very   good brain,” and for saying he ”knows more about ISIS than the   generals.” ’ ’   ”No, he does not,” Clinton said, asking voters to ”not get   distracted” from the choice before them. ’