’  ’ ’   Since he famously descended down the escalator 17 months ago, a   Donald Trump presidency has always felt more conceptual than   real. ’ ’   It felt even more like that when, in the final month of the race,   Hillary Clinton started to build   leads with   regularity in polls both . ’ ’   Wednesday, six days before Election Day, is the day a Trump   presidency started to feel a bit more realistic. Perhaps more so   than ever. ’ ’   The uptick in polls. The momentum. Most importantly, a suddenly   plausible path. ’ ’   ”He has definitely the momentum going for him. His intensity of   support is high. FBI decision to open is helping him. Even before   that the Obamacare premium increase story is also helping. The   populist sentiment is strengthening,” said Raghavan Mayur, the   president of TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence, which  in   partnership with Investor’’s Business  . ’ ”   First thing’s first: The fundamentals of the race largely favor   Clinton. ” ’   The Democratic nominee has  —   or in fact, has always had  —   a more   plausible path to victory. Trump can win Ohio, Florida, and North   Carolina, for instance, and still lose. And right now, the map   still has him losing. ’ ’   ”The torrent of swing state polls still showing Hillary in pretty   decent shape  —   which reflects what we’’re seeing privately as well    —   has me a lot less worried about a Trump presidency than I was   over the weekend,” said Tom Jensen, the director of the     Public Policy Polling. ’ ’   ”The race has gotten closer, but it’’s mostly just because of     Republicans coming home to Trump in the end, not   because of people jumping off Hillary’’s ship.” ’ ’  ’ ”   For Clinton, that’s the    side of the story. ” ’   The    side is what you get when you look at the   context of the race over the past few weeks. ’ ”   A week ago, for instance, FiveThirtyEight’s   projected   Clinton would attain about 334 electoral votes and had an 83%   chance of winning. On Wednesday, her Electoral College margin was   down to a state  —   and her chances of winning down to 65%. ” ’   A week ago, the political world was talking about which reliably   red state Clinton might win. Georgia? Arizona? Texas? On   Wednesday, the political world wondered why in the world Clinton   was still campaigning in Arizona while her poll leads were   slipping in  and Michigan, once   considered blowouts. ’ ’   A slew of new polling data released Wednesday  even   as Clinton’’s blue ”firewall” is holding up for now: ’ ’   Perhaps the most significant evidence that the glass is half   empty, however, has come from Clinton herself. Over the past   several days, amid the fallout from a reactivated FBI   investigation into her private email server, she has warned in   increasingly dire terms about the threat of a Trump presidency. ’ ”   On Wednesday, she even played out the dark fantasy out loud in   front of voters in Las Vegas. She revisited Trump’s outlandish   comments on different groups  —   Mexicans, immigrants, Muslims,      —   and asked them all to imagine: ” ’   On Friday, two days after campaigning in a   state she   thought she had a chance to swing, Clinton will find herself in   Michigan, desperately trying to shore up a state that has gone   blue in every election since 1992. ’