’  ’ ’   College  reinvigorating conversations   about what it takes to get accepted into top schools around the   nation. The impressive strength of the applicant pool has been   apparent over the past few years. ’ ’   Business Insider, for example,  some of   whom gained acceptance to all eight Ivy League schools. ’ ’   The New York Times, too, puts out an annual call for     essays to the newest class of applicants,    displaying the wit   an eloquence of the teenage applicants. ’ ”   The strength of these credentials and impressive essays elicits   the question of whether it’s more difficult to get into elite   schools today than ever before. Former Ivy League admissions   directors have some potentially unsettling news for college   applicants: yes, it is. ” ’   ”Admissions have gotten more and more competitive in the past   decade,” Angela Dunnham, a college admissions counselor at    told Business Insider via email. ”In addition   to the sheer number of applicants applying, the expectations for   candidates have increased,” Dunnham, a former assistant director   of admissions at Dartmouth College, said. ’ ’   The steady uptick of college applicants, especially at elite   schools, is stark, driven in part by the emergence of Common App,   which allows students to apply to many schools at once. ’ ’   Take, for example, an article in the Harvard Crimson about the   acceptance rate for the class of 2000. ”The class was chosen   among a pool of 18, 190 applicants, making Harvard’’s admission   rate a paltry 10. 9 percent  —   the lowest in College history,”    ’ ’   Twenty years later, the authors of that story are likely to be   aghast that the acceptance rate has spiraled ever lower. With   more than double the applicants,  ’ ’  ’ ’     In addition to the sheer number of applicants which make the     field appear more competitive, the academic credentials of     students are also becoming more impressive, in part due to the     increase in international students who have begun to flood US     colleges and universities.   ’ ’     ”I met a Korean freshman who scored a   on the SAT,     after taking in once,” Dunnham said. ”She also was conducting     impressive research and loved debate.”   ’ ’  ’ ’     However, there may be reason to view this lowering acceptance     rate with some skepticism, Cat McManus, a counselor  and a former a ssistant dean and regional     director at The University of Pennsylvania, told Business     Insider via email.   ’ ’  ’ ’     ”The rise in the number of international applicants to the most     selective institutions in the US has inflated the number of     overall applicants, as well as, in some cases, the GPA and     testing profiles, which makes schools appear more selective     from a purely statistical standpoint,” McManus, who was also an     admissions officer at Princeton, said.   ’ ’     And while in many cases it looks like GPA and standardized test     score averages are increasing, some of this should be     attributed to the test prep era, which is ubiquitous in the     college admissions process.   ’ ’     ”Whether applicants are actually ’’stronger’’ is tough to say,”     McManus said. ”There is also a lot of essay ’’help’’ that goes     on, both domestically and internationally.”   ’ ”     Still, while the increase in students utilizing test prep to     boost scores doesn’t necessarily mean these applicants are     inherently stronger students than they were a decade ago, it     does mean that average test scores are inching up, potentially     harming students who don’t have the means to pay for extra     help.   ”