’  ’ ’   In the summer of 2007, a US Navy carrier strike group of   approximately 20 ships was decimated while on patrol in the   Middle East. Some 20, 000 sailors were killed. ’ ’   The group, comprised of an aircraft carrier, five amphibious   ships, and several cruisers, was overwhelmed by a swarm of fast   attack boats laden with explosives, missiles launched from   ground sites, and   aircraft. The assault was ”over   in five, maybe ten minutes,” Lt. Gen. Paul Van Riper . ’ ’   Fortunately, it was only a training exercise.  ’ ’   No ships were actually sunk. No sailors lost their lives. ’ ”   But the  of 2002  —     which tested US military capabilities five years into the   future  —   exposed a critical gap in the Navy’s defenses: No matter   how much firepower or armor a ship might have, it’s entirely   possible that at least some among a large swarm of   small boats could penetrate those defenses and . And countries like   Iran  ” ’   ”The US military has never found a way to stop that type of swarm   attack against the US fleet,” Gregory Sancoff, the CEO of   Juliet Marine Systems, told Business Insider. ”They’’re incredibly   difficult targets.” ’ ”   While the military hasn’t yet perfected a solution, Sancoff   believes he has it. ” ”   It’s called Ghost, and it’s a stealthy, small boat that can be   outfitted with a variety of weapons to fight back in danger areas   such as the Strait of Hormuz. But the US Navy doesn’t want   it, and the government of the United States seems to   be doing everything it can to stop anyone else from having   it as well. ” ’  ’ ’   Sancoff did things differently than most in the defense   contracting world. Instead of waiting around for the Pentagon to   put out requirements or solicit contract proposals, he saw   the  in Yemen, and the revelations   from Millennium Challenge, as the catalyst for building his next   company. ’ ’   Like most entrepreneurs, he saw a problem that needed a   solution. So he just decided to build it. ’ ’   ”We are the model the Secretary of Defense is looking for,” he   said, of Defense Secretary Ash Carter’’s push for  establishment to start building   things for the Pentagon. ’ ’   Sancoff had built successful companies outside of the   defense industry plenty of times. He built   portable   IV pumps for hospitals with his first company, Block Medical,   which he later sold for $80 million. Then he started a   different company,  for $400 million. And then he sold   yet  in   2004. ’ ’   After that, Sancoff wanted to start something that   would be helpful for his country. He named the company   Juliet Marine Systems, and its flagship project was called Ghost. ’ ’  ’ ’   Sancoff, along with some outside investors, put down   roughly $20 million to make it happen. He hired engineers   and naval experts, and    with an impressive array of former Navy admirals to help   advise him. ’ ’   Then he got to work, building a prototype of the design he   came up with. That was in 2007. It took him about four   years, and $5 million of his own money, but eventually his     Ghost prototype was ready to hit the water outside   Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, New Hampshire, where it was built. ’ ”   There are a few things the Ghost does very well: Its   clever design makes its radar signature minimal, so most larger   ships won’t even pick it up on their radar displays. And since   its cockpit sits far above the water, it can literally cut   through waves for a smooth ride, reducing the slamming effect   that rough water would have on a crew. ” ’   ”You can sit there and drink your coffee going through     swells,” Sancoff  Bloomberg. But   Ghost’’s most   feature is its propulsion   technology, which has   implications for navies with   access to it. ’ ’   ”He put the propellers at the forward end of these two hull   forms,” Rear Adm. Jay Cohen (Ret.) the former head of the Office   of Naval Research, and now a board member for Juliet, told   Business Insider. ”It’’s like riding on two fins attached to two   submarines. But instead of pushing, they are pulling.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Sancoff’s design was a super cavitating propulsion system  —   the   propellers create a gas bubble through which the fins then   move  —   which is a more efficient and faster way to move a boat   through water with far less drag. ” ’   ”The beauty of that is they are very stable,” Cohen said. ”It’’s   like front wheel drive versus rear wheel drive.” ’ ’   Sancoff said that he made plenty of overtures to the Navy   and the Pentagon about what he was working on. The Office of   Naval Research initially balked at his idea prior to the   completion of a prototype,  to Bloomberg. Then, he claims, a call came from   DARPA, which eventually led to contract negotiations for the   Ghost. ’ ’   ”To me, this was a no brainer,” Cohen, the ONR Chief from 2000 to   2006, said. ”Had I been chief of naval research [at that time] I   absolutely would have invested in a cooperative agreement for a   couple of million dollars.” As Cohen explained, the ONR’’s budget   is mostly dedicated to investments that will probably turn into   viable projects down the road, but about 10% of that budget is   set aside for ”high risk, high gain” projects like Sancoff’’s  —     systems that can be bought and fielded much quicker than going   through the slower defense acquisition funnel. ’ ’   ”The Congress and the Navy are very supportive of this   because basically, if it’’s successful, you can introduce it   immediately as a solution,” Cohen said. ”And if its not, you’re   not wasting your money on an acquisition program. ” ’ ”   But that didn’t happen. ” ’  ’ ’   “The next thing you know I get a contract from them and I look at   it and they want all the patent rights,” he said. Sancoff,   believing the Ghost could have many more uses outside the   military market, scoffed at the idea of losing his intellectual   property. He turned down the contract, thinking eventually the US   Navy would go for it, and if not, he could sell to a friendly   nation such as South Korea, Japan, or the UK. ’ ’   Instead, about a month later, Sancoff said, ”I had secrecy orders   slapped on my company. They took it anyway. They went and they   grabbed my four patents, put secrecy orders on them, and they   didn’t call me.” ’ ”   Sancoff and Cohen believe that DARPA may have contacted ONR   to shut him out of any further opportunities to do business   with the Pentagon. Then the Navy issued secrecy orders over   Juliet’s four patents, which meant the company couldn’t   sell the boat, or even show it to anyone. ” ’   ”This thing reeks of conspiracy,” Cohen said. ’ ”   Almost as soon as he had built the   boat,   Sancoff’s dream of turning it into a business   was fading away. ” ’   Both DARPA and The Office of Naval Research declined to   comment, citing ongoing litigation. The Department of Justice   also declined to comment. ’ ’  ’ ’   “If you’re wondering why innovators like Greg Sancoff and   others don’t come to the US government to do business anymore,”   Cohen told Business Insider. ”This is the kind of hubris by   government service people of ‘not invented here’ that could   significantly degrade our national security if its not nipped in   the bud.” ’ ’   According to Cohen, it’’s likely that the Navy saw potential in   Ghost’’s technology but its culture of investing mostly in   internal projects tainted any hope of adoption. At one point   in 2014, Adm. Michelle Howard  —   then serving as Chief of Naval   Operations  —   even  and, according to Cohen, later asked ONR about   it. They said the design was ”dangerous,” Cohen claimed, of   rumors he heard afterward. ’ ’   Howard did not respond to a request for comment. ’ ’   “Meanwhile, they’re  supercavitation initiatives,” Cohen said. ’ ’   Juliet Marine Systems was slapped with a secrecy order   in October 2009. Then in March 2010, it was lifted without   explanation. The orders were reinstated in August, and then   lifted again in June 2011. ’ ’   ”It just completely stifled the innovation,” Sancoff said. ”It   stifled our schedule and our financial plans, and we basically   sat around for long periods of time with little money. ” ’ ’  ’ ”   So Sancoff decided that if the US government didn’t want Ghost,   perhaps some US allies would. In the times he wasn’t under   secrecy order, he was hearing positive feedback from outside the   United States. But his outreach to friendly nations was   stifled by the State Department,  on   systems. ” ”   If Juliet wants to take a meeting with South Korea, for example,   it has to file paperwork with the State Department. And   since it’s naval technology, State then goes back to the Navy to   ask for their opinion before issuing a decision. And pretty much   every time, Sancoff said, those decisions come along   with plenty of caveats. ” ’   ”They tell us basically you cannot discuss anything with any   foreign country unless we see it first,” Sancoff said. ”We   absolutely believe they’d like us to go out of business. They   don’t want to see this technology used by other countries. ” ’ ”   First and foremost among things Juliet cannot discuss, according   to one export license the company shared with Business Insider,   is the Ghost boat, and its supercavitating hull. It also   said it couldn’t talk about its stealth capabilities, or Ghost’s   ability to employ various US weapons systems. ” ”   Essentially, Juliet is hindered by a   that says, sure you   can do business outside the United States, as long it’s not   your main line of business. ” ’   ”This is like a bad soap opera. You can’t write this,” Cohen   said. ”This is either incompetence at its height or it’’s a   Machiavellian plot and you know what, its somewhere in between   the two. ” ’ ’  ’ ”   Juliet’s bureaucratic nightmare continues to this day. ” ”   Because the company can’t do business with anyone, Sancoff has   had to lay off most of his employees. He has been in contact with   Sen. Kelly Ayotte ( . H) a member of the Senate Armed Services   Committee, and she has set up meetings with Navy officials and   written letters on the company’s behalf, but those efforts   have only gone so far. ” ’   ”It doesn’t seem right for the US government to tell a company   like Juliet Marine that the Department of Defense is not   interested in the   vessel and propulsion technology   the company has developed at its own expense, while also telling   the company that the technology is too advanced to permit them to   share it with our nation’s closest allies and partners,” Ayotte   told Business Insider in a written statement. ’ ’   ”DoD will increasingly need innovative American defense suppliers   in the future, and the Pentagon would be wise to not adopt   policies that will drive those companies out of business or out   of the defense sector.” ’ ’  ’ ”   In July 2015, Sancoff decided to take the government to court   over the secrecy orders, alleging that they resulted in a loss of   business opportunities and revenue. Juliet’s complaint says the   orders delayed critical sea trials, discussions with potential   partners, the marketing of its product, and stifled   its ability to hire employees and raise additional   investment. ” ’   Government lawyers have denied any damage has been caused by   those orders, court filings show. ’ ”   Now more than a year on, the case has moved slowly in the US   Court of Federal Claims. Discovery has produced more than 37, 000   documents from Juliet, while the government has only produced   about 5, 000. And for almost all of Juliet’s filings,   the government does not respond without first asking for an   extension, adding weeks and months of delay. ” ’   ”They are doing everything they can to stonewall us, redact   everything they can redact, and fight us until the very end,”   Sancoff said.  ’ ”   But Sancoff is confident that he will emerge victorious. And   though he’s had to lay off most of his employees as he fights the   government, he told Business Insider they would all be     once the case is settled. ” ’   “Greg Sancoff and the backers of Juliet Marine will be   damned if they will allow the federal government to run out the   clock,” Cohen said. ”They are not inclined to do that. ” ’ ’   ”We will never give up this company,” Sancoff said. ’