’  ’ ’   FBI Director James Comey informed Congress on Sunday that a   review of new emails found in relation to the bureau’s   investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email   server had not yielded any reason for charges against the   Democratic presidential nominee. ’ ’   “Based on our review, we have not changed our conclusions that we   expressed in July with respect to Secretary Clinton,” Comey wrote   in a short letter. ’ ’   In July, Comey characterized Clinton and her team of being   “extremely careless” while handling classified information, but   said no “reasonable prosecutor” would move forward with a case. ’ ’   But, in late October, Comey stunned the political world when   he  into Clinton after discovering new emails   “pertinent to the investigation. ” ’ ’   The emails were reportedly found on the laptop of Anthony Weiner,   the estranged husband of top Clinton aide Huma Abedin.   Weiner is under federal investigation related to allegations he   sexted with a minor. ’ ’’ ’   The FBI director told Congress on Sunday that since the   announcement his team had been ”working around the clock” to   process the newly discovered emails. ’ ’   ”We reviewed all communications that were to or from Hillary   Clinton while she served as secretary of state,”   Comey wrote. ’ ’   After doing so, the bureau determined that there was no reason to   change its July conclusion. ’ ’   Brian Fallon, press secretary for Clinton,  that the campaign was   ”always confident nothing would cause the July decision to be   revisited.” ’ ’   ”Now Director Comey has confirmed it,” Fallon added. ’ ’   Donald Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, did not   immediately address the news during a campaign stop in Minnesota   on Sunday afternoon, but his campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway,   appeared on MSNBC and insisted the campaign had not made the FBI   investigation a significant part of its campaign. ’ ’   ”We have not made this a centerpiece of our messaging, although   we are asked about it constantly,” she said on the network. ”This   has not been front and center of our campaign.” ’ ”   Despite Conway’s claims, Trump had been using the latest FBI   investigation to attack Clinton. In the past week, he and   his surrogates used every opportunity they got to suggest   the investigation would ultimately lead to an indictment that   could  should she be elected. ” ’   The message appeared to have been resonating with some voters. In   recent days,  both   nationally and in battleground states. ’ ’   With just two days left in the race, news Clinton had again been   cleared of wrongdoing could not have come any sooner for her   and her campaign. ’