MANAMA, Bahrain  —   The United States is sending 200 additional troops to Syria, nearly doubling the Pentagon’s presence there, to help thousands of Kurdish and Arab fighters massing for an assault on the Islamic State’s stronghold of Raqqa, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter said here on Saturday. Mr. Carter said the reinforcements would include American commandos and   specialists. They will join the 300 Special Operations forces already working in eastern Syria to recruit, train and advise local Syrian militias to combat the Islamic State, also known as ISIL or ISIS. “This latest commitment of additional forces within Syria is another important step in enabling our partners to deal ISIL a lasting defeat,” Mr. Carter told a security conference here. The deployment of more American troops to Syria, which Mr. Carter said President Obama had approved in recent days, comes as questions are arising in the Middle East and in Washington about the level of support   Donald J. Trump will maintain for rebel groups in Syria combating the Islamic State and others fighting the government of President Bashar  . Mr. Trump has expressed a desire to work with Russia and the Syrian government to defeat the Islamic State, rejecting the rebels by saying that “we have no idea who these people are. ” The battle for Raqqa  —   the de facto capital of the extremist group’s   caliphate  —   is entering a crucial phase as a coalition of 45, 000 fighters, including more than 13, 000 Arabs, has moved within 15 miles of the city. Their initial goal is to encircle the city and largely cut off the resupply of arms, supplies and fighters, American commanders say. In the last month, the   air campaign has carried out nearly 300 airstrikes around Raqqa, including attacks last week that destroyed 188 oil tanker trucks, the largest strikes of their kind in the   effort. Sending more American commandos to Syria will allow the Pentagon to train more Arab volunteers in more places in a wider array of skills, American officials said Saturday. Most of the Arab fighters are recently recruited residents who are not particularly well trained or equipped but are needed to carry out the bulk of the fighting in Raqqa itself, a Sunni Arab city. The Pentagon plans to give these local forces more arms and ammunition. “By combining our capabilities with those of our local partners, we’ve been squeezing ISIS by applying simultaneous pressure from all sides,” Mr. Carter said. The military advance is complicated by the predominant role played by Kurdish militia members, who make up a majority of the 45, 000 fighters and are the most effective American partner against the Islamic State in Syria. But the Kurdish militia fighters are viewed by Turkey  —   a pivotal American ally  —   as a terrorist threat. Turkey regards the Syrian Kurdish fighters, known collectively as the Y. P. G. as an extension of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, the Kurdish rebel group that has sought autonomy from Turkey since the 1980s. Ankara has demanded that the Y. P. G. not take part in the fight to retake Raqqa. Turkish forces in recent months have swept across the border into Syria to attack Islamic State strongholds, an offensive the Pentagon has applauded. But the Turkish advance has also served to blunt the Kurdish fighters’ efforts to carve out a contiguous swath of territory inside Syria stretching to the Iraqi border. As Turkish and Kurdish forces repeatedly clashed, American officials and commanders intervened to curtail the fighting. Washington desperately needs the two sides to focus on fighting the Islamic State in Raqqa, not each other. To that end, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr. the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has met twice in the last month with his Turkish counterpart, Gen. Hulusi Akar, to consult on battle plans for Raqqa. American Special Operations troops were assigned to accompany Turkish troops in Syria, giving the Pentagon    liaisons. In another unusual move, Brig. Gen. Jon K. Mott of the Air Force, a senior operations officer from the Pentagon’s Central Command, was recently dispatched to the Turkish Army’s operations center in Ankara to help coordinate the war effort and defuse any conflicts with the Kurds. Pentagon officials are also toning down their vocal support for Kurdish fighters to avoid further inflaming Turkish domestic political sensitivities about any collaboration between Turkish troops and Kurdish fighters. Addressing the Manama Dialogue, a conference here sponsored by the International Institute of Strategic Studies, Mr. Carter defended the Obama administration’s security commitment in the Persian Gulf, and the Middle East more broadly, but repeatedly scolded Middle Eastern partners for failing to provide more military muscle in the broader campaign to defeat the Islamic State and counter extremism. Without singling out any country by name, Mr. Carter suggested that the United States had been the target of disingenuous criticism from “regional powers here in the Middle East” for not doing more to help fight extremism. “I would ask you to imagine what U. S. military and defense leaders think when they have to listen to complaints sometimes that we should do more, when it’s plain to see that all too often, the ones complaining aren’t doing enough themselves,” said Mr. Carter, who is in the middle of a      farewell trip as defense secretary. Mr. Carter also noted that many   nations in the Gulf region had expressed concern about the spread of Iranian influence in the region  —   a threat that Mr. Trump and his security team have also said will be a top priority. “The fact is, if countries in the region are worried about Iran’s destabilizing activities  —   a concern the United States shares  —   they need to get in the game,” Mr. Carter said. “That means getting serious about starting to partner more with each other, and investing in the right capabilities for the threat. ”