’  ’ ”   Donald Trump made a lot of promises during his campaign for   president, but he’s hinted at what his top initiatives would be   once he assumes office. ” ”   Immigration was key to the Republican  ’s campaign   platform, and so was repealing and replacing Obamacare. ” ’   He has also come out strongly against the nuclear deal with Iran   and the   Partnership trade deal. ’ ’   We took a look at what Trump could accomplish quickly during his   first days in the Oval Office. ’ ”   The quickest way to nullify President Barack Obama’s universal   healthcare policy is probably to defund it,  right away. ” ’’ ’   ”We’’re pretty confident that he’’s going to get off to a quick   start, and he can take action on Obamacare right away if he wants   to and can submit that,” Lee Edwards, a fellow at the   conservative think tank the Heritage Foundation, told Business   Insider. ”From what we can tell, that’’s going to be high on his   list.” ’ ”   The Heritage Foundation is working with Trump’s White House   transition team, and Edwards said Obamacare, is likely to be a   top priority for the  . ” ’   Robert Shapiro, a political science professor at Columbia   University, said the way to nullify Obamacare would be to defund   it. ’ ’   ”They could pass a bill rescinding it. Period. Done deal,”   Shapiro said. ”  …     They can do it in a way that cuts off funding.” ’ ’   Cynthia Cox, a health policy expert at the nonpartisan Kaiser   Family Foundation, told Business Insider earlier this week that   because Republicans do not control a   majority in   Congress, they will only be able to use budget reconciliation   measures to change the Affordable Care Act. ’ ’   But Shapiro said there might be a way around that. ’ ’   ”If they’’re worried about Democrats filibustering it, they can   enact what’’s called the ’’nuclear option’’ and change the rules and   eliminate the filibuster,” he said. ’ ’   Under this option, Republicans would only need a simple majority,   rather than a   majority, to end a Democratic   filibuster. ’ ’   Reforming immigration laws will be ”a little more difficult to do   right off the bat,” Edwards said. ’ ’   But there are some things Trump could move on quickly. ’ ’   ”The idea of secure borders, there’’s a  which calls for 700 miles of     wire fencing, and that could get some immediate   action,” he said. ’ ’   Trump  he would ”immediately terminate” executive   orders from Obama that protected 4 million undocumented   immigrants from deportation. Executive orders implemented by   Obama are indeed reversible once a new president takes office. ’ ”   Another popular pledge from Trump’s campaign was building a wall    —   not just a fence  —   on the southern border of the US to prevent   illegal immigration from Mexico. He has also insisted that Mexico   will pay for the wall. ” ”   But it’s unlikely that Trump will actually be able to make that   happen, according to Shapiro. ” ’   ”Mexico is not paying for the wall,” Shapiro said. ”They may want   to rethink that.” ’ ’   There’’s ”absolutely no way” for the US to force Mexico to pay for   the border wall short of threatening the country. ’ ’   ”We can threaten to invade them,” Shapiro said, adding   sarcastically, ”That would be a nice, smart thing to do.” ’ ”   Trump’s administration could also threaten remittances (money   transfers) sent from the US to Mexico, something Trump . ” ’   ”They could do something with regard to trying to control   remittances from Mexicans working in the US so that’’s the   leverage they might have,” Shapiro said. ’ ’   But this plan could have an unintended side effect. ’ ’   ”They may want to think good and hard about that because when   remittances go back, they go to families to try to support them   so they don’’t try to immigrate to the United States,” he said. ’ ’   Trump has called the nuclear agreement with Iran ”one of the   worst deals” he has ”ever seen negotiated,” but has been somewhat   unclear on exactly what he would do about it. ’ ’   Obama brokered the deal between a   group of world powers   and Iran that provided guarantees of sanctions relief in exchange   for the Middle Eastern country curtailing its nuclear program. ’ ’   And while Trump has made clear that he’’s against the deal, he    that it would be difficult to rescind the   deal immediately. He’’s said that, instead, he might ”police” Iran   to make sure it upholds its end of the bargain. ’ ’   But he has also suggested that he would rescind the   deal, telling the   lobbying group AIPAC that his   ”number one priority is to dismantle the disastrous deal with   Iran.” ’ ’   State Department spokesman Mark Toner  that Trump could throw out the deal,   noting that it’’s ”valid only as long as all parties uphold   it.” In that case, Trump could reinstate US sanctions against   Iran by executive order. ’ ”   Still, it’s unlikely the deal would be nullified immediately. ” ’   Analysts also speculate that the     Partnership, a   agreement championed by Obama that   aims to slash tariffs and promote economic growth among 12   nations in the Pacific Rim, is dead in the water. ’ ’   Obama had hoped to get the deal passed during the     session. ’ ’   ”The coffin is nearly closed on TPP,” Nate Olson, director of the   Trade21 project at the Stimson Center, . ”There’’s no viable action in the lame duck.” ’ ’   Trump  ”a rape of our country.” ’ ’   Trump will also likely want to figure out a tax plan during his   early days in office. ’ ’   ”If they’’re going to cut taxes, they’’re probably going to want to   figure out a more comprehensive tax plan,” Shapiro said. ”There   is consensus about cutting taxes on businesses, there is a   consensus on simplifying the tax code in a certain way.” ’ ’   Politico  that Republican lawmakers are already   discussing ways to cut taxes. ’ ”   Another box Trump will likely want to check as soon as possible   is nominating a Supreme Court justice to replace Antonin Scalia,   who died in February. Obama nominated federal judge Merrick   Garland to take Scalia’s place, but because Republicans hold a   majority in the Senate and the nomination happened during an   election year, the Senate has refused to hold a confirmation   hearing for Garland. ” ’   Even Senate Republicans who opposed Trump said Congress should   wait until the new administration is in place to confirm a new   justice. ’ ’   ”[Trump] will want to appoint the successor to Antonin   Scalia on the Supreme Court, and there him and the Republican   leadership see  ” Shapiro said. ’