’  ’ ”   The Democratic Party is in shock following   Donald   Trump’s win, and it is preparing for a   that will   likely take years and reshape the party to make gains in 2018 and   2020. ” ’   As President Barack Obama stewards the transition of his   administration, it is unknown who will emerge as the de facto   leader of the Democratic Party as it looks forward to tough   midterm elections and an uncertain future in 2020. ’ ”   Politico reported that it’s unclear who the  will be, and   that it’s unlikely House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi would   remain in her position for much longer. ” ’   Many of the most prominent figures on the left have largely   remained silent about how the party can move forward from a   stinging loss to a deeply flawed candidate in Trump. ’ ’   Top donors like billionaire investor Tom Steyer, who dropped    on various races and ballot   initiatives  —   much of it through his super PAC, NextGen Climate   Action  —   said his team is combing through voter data, trying to   figure out its best course of action. ’ ’   ”We were both surprised and disappointed on Tuesday by the   outcomes, and therefore we’’re taking a look at what’’s happened   and trying to devise an effective plan,” Steyer said. ’ ”   Many Democrats hypothesized that a stunted primary and Clinton’s   maneuvering to consolidate support before the primary allowed a   candidate out of touch with a significant portion of the party to   clinch the nomination. ” ”   Democrats said Clinton’s path to eliminating competition within   the Democratic Party  —   while successful  —   helped sideline   potential rivals but disconnected her from the grassroots. ” ’   ”She worked the inside game really well,” said a Democrat who   worked on a rival presidential campaign. ”Leaning on bundlers,   lining up big endorsements from members of Congress and key   luminaries.” ’ ”   DNC Vice Chair R. T. Rybak lamented the party’s efforts to inhibit   attention to the candidate during the primary, including the   DNC’s decision to hold a limited number of debates and schedule   them during time slots with low viewership. ” ’   The former Minneapolis mayor said the DNC also ”made some   significant tactical errors” and strayed too far from a   grassroots chunk of the party attempting to communicate its   distaste for the perceived  . ’ ’   ”From the beginning, it seems there was a mismatch of     electoral strategies and more traditional   campaigns, and a candidate who is perceived as being more   traditional,” Rybak said. ’ ’   He added, ”Over these next few months we’’re going to have to be   focused very deeply on how we put more democracy into the   Democratic National Committee so that it does a better job of   representing what’’s happening out in the community.” ’ ’  ’ ’   While some pundits cited  and lower support among key voter demographics   like  for many it was too early to seriously   point fingers at voting blocs and members of the party. ’ ’   A former top staffer on Sen. Bernie Sanders’’ Democratic   presidential bid told Business Insider they were ”still in shock,   honestly  —   not really in the blame phase yet.” ’ ”   Steve Schale, a former adviser to President Barack Obama in   Florida who is familiar with the state’s politics, said that   early projections showing Latino strength were accurate, but they   underestimated white   voter turnout. ” ’   ”She did well with the  [early] voters, but there was   always a chance he could pull an inside straight on Election Day,   and he did,” Schale said late Tuesday. ’ ’   He added: ”Clearly, what happened in Florida wasn’’t isolated. And   while there will be plenty of time to learn from this, we have to   recognize that there are people who voted for Trump who did so   because they are hardworking Americans, but who are economically   insecure. Win or lose tonight, in places like Ohio, Florida, and   North Carolina, you have to speak to these voters in a meaningful   way to win.” ’ ”   Steyer was quick to say the   young voters also   shouldn’t be unfairly blamed. ” ”   The NextGen founder said exit polls showed that young voters   showed up at higher rates than in 2012. Moreover, he said,   NextGen’s decision to concentrate on millennial voter turnout   coincided with a rise in voter levels in 10 of the 12   battleground targeted precincts the group focused its efforts on. ” ’   ”We thought we were going to be in the critical places, and in   the places where we were, we were effective,” Steyer said. ”Where   we weren’’t was the problem.” ’ ’   Steyer also suggested the Democrats were ineffective at turning   out the older voters it needed in key states like Pennsylvania   and Wisconsin, two states that have been reliably blue for most   presidential elections. ’ ’   ”Maybe they should’’ve turned over the campaign to us,” he said.   ”I think that what you’’ll see is that the analysis of what   happened is the Democratic base over 35 years old did not show up   in anything like the numbers that it did in ’’08 and ’’12.   Millennials actually did show up, but the Democratic base, it   turns out  —   it wasn’’t the millennials that was everyone’’s   concern.” ’ ’   But there were two feelings almost every Democrat felt: shock and   sadness. ’ ’   ”This is the lowest moment in my life,” a Clinton campaign   official said early Wednesday. ’ ”   Schale, who briefly advised a group dedicated to urging Vice   President Joe Biden to enter the Democratic race last year,   couldn’t help but wonder what could have been. ” ’   ”  is gonna need collective therapy,” he said. ’ ’ Brett LoGiurato contributed reporting. ’