’  ’ ”     Donald Trump met with President Barack Obama on   Wednesday, his first meeting with the sitting president and one   step closer to Trump’s inauguration in January. ” ”   But while Trump’s impending presidency is certain, it is much   less clear what policies he’ll pursue in office, and for no   region is the outlook more uncertain than for Latin America. ” ’   Immigration and trade, particularly as they relate to   Mexico, have dominated his public comments about hemispheric   relations. ’ ’   Even though one of his   advisers  this summer that he didn’’t think Trump   or his confidants saw the region as ”some big blob that you can   just generalize about,” generalizations are by and large all that   can be made, considering the paucity of information about Trump’’s   views on the many specific issues the region faces. ’ ”   Trump’s aggressive rhetoric about immigration and trade issues   has  among   policymakers and everyday people alike. ” ”   Prior to the election, the country’s economic officials  they were preparing themselves from the   negative fallout of a Trump victory, but in the wake of Trump’s   win, they offered few specifics in the face of the unfolding   economic turmoil, particularly the dramatic weakening of the peso   against the dollar. ” ’   ”The official response has signaled calm and an intention to work   together” with the new US government, said Carin Zissis, the   online    at the Americas Society and Council of the   Americas, . ’ ’  ’ ’   ”There has been an initial reaction of shock . .. and there also   is a sense of uncertainty over what’’s to come. Many are fearful   about the impact on the Mexican economy,” Zissis said,  that the closeness of the US and   Mexican economies would not easily be unwound. ’ ”   Trump’s assertions about heightened border enforcement and the   deportation of many of the millions of undocumented Mexican   immigrants in the US have created concerns about logistical   strains on Mexican authorities and such actions would risk   exacerbating the . ” ’   Clamping down on the border and restricting the traffic moving   across it would increase   competition over the few   crossings that remain open. ”The conflict for taking control of   [criminal turf] these routes, could get worse,” Mexican security   analyst Alejandro Hope  Insight Crime. Violence in border cities   like  and  is already on the rise. ’ ”   Hope, who is a former member of Mexico’s federal intelligence   agency, also  that the influx of deportees, who would   have few employment opportunities in Mexico, could provide a   ready pool of labor for criminal organizations. ” ’  ’ ”   Trump’s alterations to US immigration and trade policy would also   reverberate farther south. There are as many as a  immigrants from El Salvador and about   1. 5 million  (less than  of whom are legal residents) in the   US, and their deportation would have security consequences   similar to those in Mexico. ” ’   Though Trump  specific comments about regional   trade deals other than NAFTA, his emphasis on outsourcing and   returning jobs to the US could  job opportunities in El Salvador, and   mass deportation of Guatemalans in the US who send remittances   back to their families would disrupt the economy there. ’ ’   ”Every time the US economy sneezes, El Salvador catches the flu,”   Tim Muth, a longtime blogger writing about El Salvador,  on Wednesday. ’ ”   Trump’s disregard for climate change and focus on upping   industrial activity could have outsize effects on Central America   as well. ” ’  ’ ’   The region is  to flooding and     activity and relies on a stable climate for food production.    in the region in recent   years have strained the resources of governments and made life   worse for people in the area. ’ ’   Uncertainty about what Trump plans to do has augmented the   uncertainty dominant in Colombia, where  with     rebel group the FARC to pass a public vote in October   has raised concerns about security, the economy, and criminality. ’ ’   Trump’’s overtures to an ”America First” foreign policy suggest   the immense aid Colombia has received in recent years  —   it is the   hemisphere’’s largest recipient of US assistance,  Adam Isacson of the Washington Office   on Latin America  —   may be reduced, which would hinder Colombia’’s   efforts to renegotiate the peace deal and to implement     development plans. ’ ’   Should Trump’’s regional policy amount to a ”handoff to the old   guard,” as Isacson puts it, that puts GOP retreads into Latin   America policymaking positions, then US backing could shift more   behind Colombia’’s   which has denounced the peace deal.   (The Republican Party’’s platform is  to   peace talks.) ’ ’  ’ ’   Alvaro Uribe, a former president and ardent foe of the peace deal   who used US military aid to pursue a bloody   campaign   in the 2000s, greeted Trump’’s election warmly,  on Twitter: ”Congratulations President   Trump; the narcoterrorism of Colombia and the tyranny of   Venezuela are the biggest enemies of our democracy.” ’ ’   ”The coming change will be abrupt,” Isacson . ”Weathering it is going to take a lot   of smart activism,     protection of   human rights defenders . .. and, although ’’the truth’’ seems to   have little power in political debates at the moment, persistent   citizen efforts to reveal it.” ’ ”   Uribe’s reference to Venezuela’s government is no boutique issue. ” ”   Uribe himself has long denounced the socialist government of   Colombia’s neighbor, and the US in recent years has had an     antagonistic relationship with Caracas. (There have also   been a  of  comparisons between Trump and   late Venezuelan President Hugh Chavez and current President   Nicolas Maduro.) ” ’  ’ ”   Trump has inveighed against Maduro’s government, often pairing   Venezuela with Cuba for criticism over democratic expression and   economic policy. ” ’   Maduro has returned fire, calling Trump a ”” and a ”,” a denigration meaning ”big wig” and   typically aimed at the rich. ’ ’   In October, Trump  ”The next President of the United   States must stand in solidarity with all people oppressed in our   hemisphere, and I will stand with the oppressed people of   Venezuela yearning to be free.” ’ ’   On the day before Americans went to the polls, and after a   campaign stop in Florida, Trump  on his Facebook: ’ ”   Aside from those comments, Trump’s statements about Venezuela,   like the rest of the region, have been limited, David Smilde, a   sociology professor at Tulane University, told Business Insider. ” ’   ”His basic outlook would suggest he will withdraw from   significant international engagement,” Smilde added. ”That would   probably be the best scenario for   relations since   the US is probably the least important and effective actor in the   region for mediating in the Venezuela conflict.” ’ ’  ’ ’   But, Smilde noted, such an approach may be  . In   addition to the possible appointment of GOP officials who would   take proactive stances toward Latin America, Trump may find that   and an ”America First” policy is impractical in the face of some   situations abroad. ’ ’   ”Finally, populist leaders like Donald Trump usually find it   helpful to create a foreign threat as the villain in their   conspiracy theories,” Smilde said. ”With a weak and discredited   government, Venezuela would be a very likely object of Donald   Trump’’s attention.” ’ ’   ”With Trump in the White House, the international scenario will   be harder on Maduro,” Luis Salamanca, a Venezuelan professor and   former National Electoral Council official,  the Latin America Herald Tribune.   ”I see Trump eventually threatening to stop buying Venezuelan   oil, if Maduro keeps up the gratuitous provocations.” ’ ’  ’ ”   The US has consistently been one of Venezuela’s largest oil   customers, but turning the screws on the Maduro government may   not need involve oil. ” ’   The US government  into Venezuelan   officials over   allegations, and two nephews of   the Venezuelan first lady are  in New   York. ’ ’   A more hostile relationship between Washington and Caracas may   then led to more aggressive investigations of the latter by the   former. ’ ’   This doesn’’t mean Venezuela’’s opposition is keen on Trump. The   main opposition spokesman  Americans ”all the luck in the world”   after Trump’’s Election Day win. ’ ’   ”We come from this disaster  —   the fantasy of politics driven by a   single leader, these hegemonic and totalitarian projects,” Jesus   Torrealba  in a statement. ”(Now) others appear to   be heading toward that cliff.” ’ ”   The Venezuelan government has long been close to the Castro   government in Cuba, and Trump’s remarks toward Havana are similar   to those he has made about Caracas. ” ’   In October,  in Florida, where the Cuban   population is generally   Trump called Obama’’s   deals with Cuba ” ” and beneficial to ”only the Castro   regime.” ’ ’  ’ ’   ”But all of the concessions that Barack Obama has granted the   Castro regime were done with executive order, which means the   next president can reverse them. And that is what I will do   unless the Castro regime meets our demands,” Trump said,  to CNN. ’ ’   ”Those demands will include religious and political freedom for   the Cuban people and the freeing of political prisoners,” Trump   . ’ ”   In Cuba, Trump’s hostility toward the thawing of relations has   been  . ” ’   The day after his election, fears that he would reverse Obama’’s   detente surfaced, and the government announced five days of   military exercises to prepare Cuban forces to face ”a range of   actions by the enemy” in a statement that used ”terminology that   almost always refers to the United States,” the Associated Press   . ’ ’   Such exercises in the past have come at  with the US. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump’s demands for the Castro government to make concessions on   religious and political expression are likely to be nonstarters   for Havana. ” ’   Some in the country who misgivings about the relationship   developed under Obama,  it detrimental to the ”revolution,”   may welcome Trump’’s position. ’ ’   But the danger of an impasse or erosion or renewed relations   concerned some in the country who have eked out benefits from the   thaw. ’ ’   ”The little we’’ve advanced, if he reverses it, it hurts us,” taxi   driver Oriel Iglesias Garcia  the AP. ”You know tourism will go down.   If Donald Trump wins and turns everything back it’’s really bad   for us.” ’ ”   Uncertainty, with a hue of trepidation, colors the outlook for   the US’s Latin America policy. ” ”   The overarching theme of Trump’s   pronouncements   seems to be one of retrenchment and reduced international   activity. But, as Smilde, of Tulane University, noted about   Trump’s views on Venezuela, such an approach by a US president   has in the past been a temporary one. ” ’   ”Many presidents campaign on an ’’America first’’ platform —  as did   George Bush in 2000, and Obama to a certain degree in 2008,”   Smilde told Business Insider. ”But once they get into office they   immediately confront situations that require more attention than   anticipated.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Confronted with the Trump ”,” many in Latin America have pushed   back. In Mexico, three presidents, including the current one,   have made comparisons between  and Mexicans have burned   Trump in effigy and mocked him in the media. ’ ’   In  and  investigators have launched probes in   the financial dealings of Trump and Trump’’s business interests.   TeleSur, a media network in which the Venezuelan government is   the  has called Trump a   ”.” ’ ’   But his vision for governance may parallel that of others in the   region. ’ ’   In Argentina and Peru, the recent election of conservative,     governments may bring some alignment with a Trump   government (though in the latter country, the new president    in   response to a Trump presidency.) ’ ’  ’ ’   ”Trump’s unorthodox mixture of   protectionism is   actually a very solid parallel to the economic policies of the   current governments in Brazil and Argentina,”  James Bosworth, a regional analyst,   ”so both governments appear to see some common ground on which to   build relations.” ’ ”   Many in the region have agitated for a reevaluation of the US’s   prohibitionist drug policies. ” ’   ”Perhaps marijuana initiatives and Trump’’s ’’business acumen’’ will   lead him to support the legalization of marijuana and other   illegal drugs,” Mike Allison, a political science professor at   the University of Scranton,  after Trump’’s election. ’ ”   Those things notwithstanding, Trump’s presidential campaign   invoked the specter of many policies unwelcome in the US and   throughout Latin America, chief among them racism and xenophobia.   Trump may find a way to undo the perception he has created for   himself, but in the uncertain aftermath of his election victory,   negative sensations are the dominant ones. ” ’   ”The civilized and democratic world will have to confront, once   again, EVIL,” Mexican historian Enrique Krauze  on the evening of November 8. ”And   once again, with blood, sweat, and tears, it will defeat it.” ’