’  ’ ’   Former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean is putting himself back in the   running for chair of the Democratic National Committee. ’ ’   In a tweet on Thursday, the former chair said the party needs to   rehabilitate its technology and develop a strategy that   does not just play in battleground states following the the upset   loss to Donald Trump.  ’ ’   ”The dems need organization and focus on the young. Need a fifty   State strategy and tech rehab. I am in for chairman again,” Dean   said. ’ ’     ’ ”   The former governor’s tweet echoes his strategy when he ran   the DNC in the   to the 2008 presidential election. ” ’’ ’   Dean  courted   the grassroots activists within the party while clashing   occasionally with party leaders, arguing that the party should   try to put every state in play, instead of focusing on key   battleground states. ’ ”   Though he was criticized for not raising enough money to compete   with the Republican National Committee, the former governor also   focused on upgrading the party’s voter file and data operation,   which the DNC believed it had the advantage on going into 2016. ” ’   Speaking with Business Insider on Wednesday, DNC Vice Chair RT   Rybak said Dean’’s attempt to build a coalition and broad support   within the party during his initial bid for chair in 2005   ”put more democracy into the DNC.” ’ ’   ”The best time it seems the DNC did that was when   Howard Dean used his campaign apparatus to run for chair,”   Rybak said. ’ ’   ”One thing we should be asking ourselves is if we had a chair who   is not representative of what was happening in the community and   was perceived to be not listening, then maybe we should actually   have more democracy, where there’s more   where the chair   actually has to go out and win a constituency and mobilize   people. I hope that doesn’t break along   lines,   because that would be the worst thing, but I do think it’s a   really good time to have one of those big raw family discussions   like we’re all going to have over the Thanksgiving table, where   there’s a lot of heat but we hug on the way out the door.” ’ ”   Dean isn’t the only Democrat vying for the spot. ” ’   The Huffington Post  that Rep. Keith Ellison, one of the more outspoken   progressive voices in the House of Representatives, is also   jockeying for the DNC chair position. He garnered   an endorsement from Sen. Bernie Sanders on Thursday. ’