’  ’ ’   Through nine weeks of NFL games, TV ratings have seen a dramatic   decrease from 2015. ’ ’   After another down week in Week 9,  that 26 of 27 2016   primetime games have seen a decrease from 2015. ’ ”   There’s been a great deal of   over the reason for   the ratings decline. Perhaps the most common theory has been the     presidential election distracting fans away from   the game. This was even asserted by the league itself, which   . They   added that ratings typically drop in election years. ” ’   However, now, with the presidential election over, the NFL is   going to truly find out the state of the league. ’ ”   Ratings might not rebound immediately; the aftermath of Donald   Trump’s win could linger for several more weeks. However, if   there was a week for the NFL to make a comeback with the   conclusion of the election, it would be Week 10. ” ’’ ’   Though it kicks off with a lopsided Thursday night game between   the   Ravens and winless Browns, the Sunday slate has several   intriguing matchups, highlighted by a Super Bowl 49 rematch   between the Seahawks and Patriots. That game is preceded by a     afternoon showdown and is followed by the New   York Giants playing in primetime on Monday night. ’ ”   Some have surmised that the NFL’s TV ratings have fallen because   of a drop in quality of play. While there aren’t stats to back   this up, a    schedule, often featuring middling   teams in primetime has not, optically, done the NFL many favors.   Week 10 finally presents competitive,       teams playing in the first   weekend. ” ”   If ratings don’t rebound, at least slightly, it could be   indicative of deeper problems with the NFL. Speaking from The New   York Times’ DealBook conference on Thursday, commissioner Roger   Goodell suggested a few things that could be hurting the league.   According to Ken Belson of the Times, Goodell acknowledged the   possible need for fewer commercials and potential     of games (). ” ’ the length   of games, particularly with the high number of commercials, could   also be hurting viewing audiences. The NFL could consider how   better to rearrange the timing of ads to keep viewers engaged. ’ ”   However, these theories come second to the distraction of the   election, which the NFL specifically pointed to. The election is   now over, and if ratings don’t begin to creep up in a promising   week, the NFL may need to take a deeper look into why Americans   are turning off football games. ”