’  ’ ”   Macy’s is struggling. ” ’   The retailer this week announced its seventh straight quarter of   declines in both profits and sales. ’ ’   Net income for the third quarter fell by 87% to $15 million,   following a 46% decline over the same period last year, and sales   dropped to 4. 2% to $5. 63 billion.   sales, or sales at   stores open at least a year, fell 3. 3%. ’ ”   The company’s performance, while slightly better than the first   half of the year, paints a grim picture, according to Neil   Saunders, CEO of the consulting firm Conlumino. ” ’   ”These figures show a company grappling with what looks like   terminal decline,” Saunders wrote in a note to clients Thursday. ’ ’’ ’   He highlighted the fact that Macy’’s made just $0. 02 for every   dollar of sales, saying, ”This is a weak position that,   given the general direction, puts the company on a pathway to   long term unprofitability.” ’ ”   Macy’s could not immediately be reached for comment.  ” ’    ’ ”   On a more positive note, however, Macy’s said earlier   this week that it’s seeing improvement in its apparel sales and   now expects   sales declines to slow in the fourth   quarter. ” ’  ’ ”   Macy’s must keep this momentum going by giving shoppers a   reason to visit its stores, or else it risks getting crushed   by Amazon, according to Cowen & Co analysts. ” ’   Amazon  ’ ’   ”We do believe Macy’s is working quickly to bring excitement back   into stores, and this will need to happen through a combination   of product, convenience, service,   offerings,   beauty, and other   offerings which are not easily   replicated online,” Cowen & Co. analysts wrote in a note   to clients. ”If this does not happen, we believe Macy’’s will lose   share and ultimately consumer relevance over time. We continue to   believe store traffic is the question, opportunity, and risk for   the   investor.” ’ ”   In another potentially positive sign for the business, Macy’s is   teaming up with Brookfield Asset Management to redevelop at   least 50 stores. The partnership is meant to make existing stores   more profitable. ” ’   The decision was praised by analysts at several banks, as well as   Saunders. ’ ’   ”We are encouraged by the fact that Macy’s will use some of the   capital to invest and develop locations it sees as having future   potential,” Saunders wrote. ”This is unlike the position of Sears   which has used asset monetization to fund the day to day   operations of the business, something that in our view suggests a   company circling the drain.” ’