Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos  —   and anything else that strikes them as intriguing. You can listen to this playlist on Spotify here. Like this Playlist? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes. com, and sign up for our Louder newsletter (coming soon!) here. The sleight of hand that made “Earned It,” the Weeknd’s magisterial song for the original “Fifty Shades of Grey” film, so effective was that it relied on a sort of bondage, balancing the tension between its polished exterior and what was easy to imagine as its   core. “I Don’t Wanna Live Forever,” the first offering from the film’s sequel, by ZAYN and Taylor Swift, (available on Apple Music) has no such struggle. There’s little moistness here: ZAYN’s sweet vocals never manage anguish or tension, and Ms. Swift has perhaps never been more obscured by digital manipulation, in places to the point where she’s practically anonymized. The pleading in the song is clinical, the chemistry muted. (An opportunity for Ms. Swift to strike back at an ex is largely missed  —   ZAYN is a former bandmate of Harry Styles, her   paramour.) The thickness of the production conveys the urgency here  —   in the beginning, it recalls the hollers of Ms. Swift’s “Out of the Woods”  —   and the chorus gleams. But the song never sweats, nor threatens to. JON CARAMANICA Here’s one way to announce a comeback: “Trying to win your interest   you ain’t having none of that. ” That’s the salutation from Jim and William Reid, the brothers who lead the Jesus and Mary Chain, which released its last album in 1998 but has been touring sporadically since 2007. “Amputation” opens a new album due in March, “Damage and Joy,” and it barely budges from the sound the Jesus and Mary Chain perfected on “Psychocandy” in 1985. It’s   rock sung with cynical conviction and barricaded with layer upon layer of distorted guitars and additional noise, like the sizzling whistle that opens the track and squeals throughout. The mandate is to keep thickening the mix, loading on the irritants and cranking them up: the way sweet falsetto “oohs” arrive with vicious feedback at 1:25, and the way the chorus is chanted for the final minute and a half over implacable drums and a massive pileup of lead and rhythm guitars. It’s not chaos it’s strategic cacophony. JON PARELES Rage spews every which way in “Governed by Contagions,” the first song in 16 years from the reunited At The  . The beat gallops and pummels Omar  ’s guitar parts proceed from buzzing, nagging repetition to jagged leaps to screeching tremolo chords, and the singer and lyricist Cedric   rails, obliquely, about desperate people facing detested adversaries, “singing cannibal hymns of the bourgeoisie,” and envisioning revolution: “That’s the way the guillotine claps,” a chorus declares. It’s as precise in its aggression as At The Drive In’s     has always been it’s also a gauntlet thrown down. J. P. The title of Ryan Adams’s coming album, “The Prisoner,” refers to an emotional state  —   specifically, what it means to be consumed or paralyzed by desire. On the album’s   lead single and opening track, “Do You Still Love Me? ,” his lyrics suggest the perspective of someone trying to catch sand as it slips through his hands. The chorus consists of the title phrase (with a “babe” added for good measure) while one verse elaborates further: “What can I say? I didn’t want it to change Is my heart blind and our love so strange?” “The Prisoner” is due out on Feb. 17. NATE CHINEN Here’s a   bash from a     band that’s equally raucous and   confronting mortality, media and general pandemonium all at once. It’s from the provocatively titled album “Nazi Hologram. ” The verses pound one chord into   drone ecstasy the bridges jump around but come back to that drone. “As I lay there   cruised up to   had something she was   looked sinister and   stuck it in   stuck it in me!” Then the drums crash harder and Andrew Katz sings, “Turn on your TV sets!” J. P. Sure, there’s plenty of gimmickry in pop music, but it’s admirable when someone leans in to it as convincingly as Post Malone does. He’s a    singer with a   background his music is both pointedly hybridized and abstract enough that it can be interpreted many different ways. On “Cold”  —   a standout from his major label debut album, “Stoney,” which was released today  —   he ups the ante even further. The singing is spectral, the cadence is practically spoken, and, as a bonus, the beat is   with thumps that flicker on and off. The result is unusual and impressive: “Cold” flirts with everything, and commits to nothing. J. C. Hurray for the Riff Raff hasn’t had to pivot to become part of the resistance. But on its new song, the band sharpens its aim and agenda, aligning with protesters at Standing Rock and in Peñuelas, Puerto Rico. Alynda Segarra, the songwriter at the helm of Hurray, sings of cultural theft and systemic oppression, naming no names but making her opposition clear: “Now all the politicians, they just squawk their mouths They said ‘We’ll build a wall to keep them out’” The song, which rides a percussive   groove (and has some fine guitar playing) is an early taste of “The Navigator,” due out on March 10. Ms. Segarra’s touchstones on the album range from Fania Records to Bowery   to the Nuyorican Poets Cafe, with an animating conviction that’s summed up in this song’s closing refrain: “I’ll keep fighting ‘til the end. ” N. C. This charming song is many months old, but has finally received a vivid video, thanks to its inclusion on Kodie Shane’s new EP, “Zero Gravity,” her first major label release. Kodie Shane is a member of Lil Yachty’s Sailing Team, and   in Daliesque fragments similar to the boss. “Sad” is a duet between them, with Kodie Shane lamenting her romantic lot, followed by Lil Yachty coming in to offer succor, and more. The climactic scene in the video is both comic and sweet. They sing face to face in a therapist’s office  —   their voices digitized, their emotions very raw. J. C. The Cuban pianist David Virelles is a brilliant hybridist, but until recently he generally released music with acoustic dimensions, approachable from the vectors of postbop or  . “Antenna”  —   recently released in digital form and as a   vinyl EP  —   sounds like something else entirely, even as it carries on an inquiry that has always been at the center of Mr. Virelles’s work. A track called “Rumbakuá” has electronic textures,   splicing and versifying by the Cuban rapper Etián Brebaje Man. The EP is worth seeking out, and so is a performance by Mr. Virelles at Le Poisson Rouge on Friday evening, with partners like the guitarist Rafiq Bhatia and the drummer Marcus Gilmore. N. C.