’  ’ ”   Following the election, it’s difficult to look across the   political or business landscape and see anyone who already stands   against   Donald Trump on a variety of issues. ” ’   Democratic politicians will do their democratic duty and now   maintain that we must stand together and heal the divides that   were opened by the campaign. President Obama has been a   relentless Trump detractor, but even he will  —   at least   temporarily  —   need to serve the transition. ’ ”   There is one business leader who is really more than a   business leader and whose entire vision of the future stands in   opposition to Trump’s: Elon Musk. ” ”   As I’ve often argued, to see Musk as the CEO of a car company, or   a   company, or  —   soon  —   the CEO or   of a   solar company misses the point. Musk took the hundreds of   millions he made when he and his partners, including Trump   supporter Peter Thiel, sold PayPal to eBay and immediately   invested in a    vision. ” ”   You may have missed this, but over the past two years, as Musk   has been running Tesla and SpaceX, he’s become the world’s most   prominent proponent of action against climate change. He  in Paris last December in connection with the   UN Climate Summit in which he laid out a plan to accelerate   humanity’s departure from the the   era, and he has   revisited that speech’s specifics when he unveiled the Tesla   Model 3 earlier this year and revealed Tesla’s Solar Roof last   month. ” ’   There are   deniers, and there climate change   debaters, but there is really only one CEO who has   made doing something decisive about   what many scientist argue is an existential threat the collective   mission of his companies.  ’ ’  ’ ’   It works like this. Tesla builds millions of   cars   that finally start the process of displacing the     engine from its century of dominance (a big   part of this is the validation of a mass   market, to   induce major automakers to commit to the change). This helps   lowers carbon emissions. ’ ’   Solar power provides the clean energy to run the cars, and also   gives homeowners the chance to disconnect from grid power, which   comes from burning coal and natural gas. More lowered emissions. ’ ”   SpaceX then provides the escape plan, if the   thing   doesn’t work and climate change becomes  : we move   to Mars. ” ’   Apart from maintaining that global warming is a Chinese hoax,   Trump has shown no engagement with electric cars,   sustainable energy, or space exploration. His energy policy will   likely favor the   industry, and his EPA will probably   back off on the higher   standards that are mandated   for automakers  —   and that have spurred   development.   Who knows what will happen with federal EV subsidies? ’ ’   And when it comes to a mission to Mars, well . .. I guess a Mars   colony will eventually need gilded casinos and golf courses.     real estate is still real estate, right? ’ ’  ’ ”   Musk, of course, represents the latest in a long line of   scientists and technologists that have charted the future of   humanity since the Enlightenment. Trump, by contrast, appears to   have no engagement with science, has implicitly denied the   scientific consensus when it comes to global warming, and he   wasn’t supported by the tech industry during the election (the   highly ideological, libertarian Thiel notwithstanding). ” ”   I won’t go so far to say that Trump is obviously   or      —   he loves Twitter, after all  —   it’s just that he   doesn’t seem to have ever given the subjects any   thought whatsoever. (That said, no less an   authority than Scientific American is concerned that Trump   .) ” ’   Musk, meanwhile, is a de facto mechanical engineer, energy   authority, computer scientist, economist, and rocket scientist.   He is an actual physicist. He thinks about science and   technology every minute of every day. ’ ”   It’s possible that there are no two more diametrically opposed   brains currently functioning on the planet. Their only possible   point in intersection is, weirdly, Twitter. (Musk is an active   tweeter, often breaking news there and bantering with people   about highly technical subjects.) ” ’   There are countless different ways to oppose Trump and whatever   Trumpism winds up looking like, starting with disdaining racism,   misogyny, and vulgarity. Less often discussed is holding up the   values of scientific inquiry and progress against the       messages that Trump has so willingly   disseminated since he took the Republican nomination. ’ ’  ’ ”   Trump is a secular individual; religion doesn’t particularly seem   to matter to him. But neither does science, and that might be his   biggest break from modern presidents  —   and why a figure like Musk   could logically oppose Trump more forcefully than he has already.   The history of America has been in many ways the history of   innovation on science and technology, and I’m not sure you could   go back to even the Founding Fathers and find a true exception to   that legacy in our Chief Executive. ” ”   I’ve covered Tesla and Musk for over a decade, but I’ve also   spent, in total, 20 years living in or near New York, and like   anyone with a career in the media, Donald Trump has been    . With Musk, I’ve been consistently impressed with   how much the language of science, technology, and rational   inquiry is woven into his conversation, often at a granular   level. Musk lives simultaneously in the worlds of vision and   facts  —   but the facts always come first. ” ’   Trumps also lives in a world of vision, but in my experience that   vision has always been about the man himself, a phenomenon that   was on vivid display during the primaries and the election. As   for facts, they still came last, if they came at all. ’ ”   We’ve always had someone in America who completely symbolizes   science and technology applied to the task of improving the human   species. Musk is now that guy. We’ve also always had people in   the United States who deny facts, embrace conspiracy and   superstition, and seek to reverse the course of what has actually   made America great. Trump could very well be the first of those   individuals to make it to the White House since science became   what America does best. ” ”   So if anything about Trump’s attitude toward truth or reality   disturbs you, there is an alternative, a big alternative, with a   one company that has a $  market cap and another that’s   wants to send rockets to Mars, along with a comprehensive plan to   rescue the Earth from becoming uninhabitable. Elon Musk is that   alternative. ”