’  ’ ’   In February 2011, during the  in   northeast Mexico, gunmen from the brutal Zetas cartel   accidentally targeted two US agents driving through the area  —   a   lethal mistake that would spur a crippling crackdown on the Zetas   and its operators. ’ ’   Special Agent Victor Avila and Jaime Zapata, an Immigration and   Customs Enforcement agent attached to the US embassy in Mexico   City, were headed south through the state of San Luis Potosi on   Highway 57  —   which runs through what was Zetas territory  —   on   February 15, 2011. ’ ’   After stopping to eat, the agents noticed two vehicles loaded   with armed men trailing them. ’ ’   There are differing accounts of what transpired, but the vehicles   quickly surrounded the SUV and forced the agents to stop. ’ ’   Avila and Zapata refused to get out, and shouted to the gunmen   that they were US diplomatic personnel. ”But in stopping the car,   Zapata put the car into ’’park’’ mode, causing the doors   automatically to unlock,” Tom Wainwright, the former Economist   reporter in Mexico City, wrote in his book, ”.” ’ ’   ”The mobsters were able to open the door and shoot the two   agents, wounding Zapata fatally,” Wainwright . In one account, Zapata  with attackers who were trying to drag   him from the vehicle. ’ ’  ’ ’   In another recounting, as the agents tried to relock the doors,   Avila inadvertently opened his window, allowing guns to be   inserted into their vehicle. ’ ’   Zapata was shot at least three times by weapons fired through   that window, and authorities found 80 to 90 bullet casings around   the SUV. ’ ’   The attackers apprehended afterward gave several reasons for   stopping Avila and Zapata. ’ ”   Julian Zapata Espinoza, a local leader of the Zetas who pleaded   guilty to Zapata’s murder in    authorities after his arrest in February   2011 that they targeted the vehicle because they thought Zapata   and Avila were members of a rival cartel. ” ’   In April 2013, Zapata Espinoza  US officials that Zetas members had a   ”standing order from the Zetas leadership to steal vehicles   deemed valuable to the cartel.” ’ ’   Mike Vigil, a former chief of international operations for the US   Drug Enforcement Administration, put more stock in the     explanation. ’ ’   The vehicle Avila and Zapata were in, an armored SUV, was ”very   commonly used by   organizations,” Vigil said.   ”They mistook them based on the car as rival traffickers.” ’ ’   ”The Zetas were so stupid that they didn’’t notice the diplomatic   tags on that vehicle, and they attacked them thinking that they   were rival drug traffickers,” Vigil, author of of ”,”   told Business Insider. ’ ’   Whatever the reason for the attack, it exposed a flaw in the   operational model of the Zetas, which, as Wainwright put it,   functioned kind of like a ”network of thugs.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The Zetas, which broke from the Gulf cartel after the 2003 arrest   of Gulf cartel boss Osiel Cardenas Guillen, had a kind of    often relying on   local groups of affiliates or even licensing its name out to   smaller criminal groups, like a franchise. ’ ’   The attackers in San Luis Potosi appeared to be one of these   local affiliates, and though the scope of their operations was   relatively narrow, the mistake on Highway 57 reverberated to the   very top of the cartel. ’ ’   In the week after the killing, federal agents in the US arrested   over 100   suspects in a nationwide sweep, and   Zapata Espinoza, who led the group that attacked the two agents,   was picked up in Mexico on February 23 and extradited not long   after. ’ ”   Heriberto Lazcano, the Zetas’ cartel top boss, was gunned down by   Mexican marines in October 2012 (though his body soon ). In 2013, Miguel Angel Treviño,   who assumed control after Lazcano, was  and remains in jail in central   Mexico. ” ’  ’ ”   The Zetas were already an  carrying out acts of   bloodshed that brought them special scrutiny, but as with the    of DEA agent   Enrique Camarena, the Zetas’ fatal attack on US personnel broke   an unwritten rule  —   don’t go after US law enforcement. ” ’   The attack on Avila and Zapata ”led to heavy, heavy targeting of   the Zetas, and apart from that [the Zetas] were generating more   violence,” Vigil said ”They were much more violent than the   Sinaloa cartel, the Juarez cartel, even the Tijuana cartel. These   guys were just completely ruthless.” ’ ’   ”The [Zetas] cartel continues, but it has been weakened, and its   senior leaders paid a heavy price for the incompetence of one   small group of affiliates,” Wainwright  adding: ’ ”   Fallout from the attack and Zapata’s killing has continued on the   US side of the border. ” ’  ’ ’   Zapata Espinoza, the local Zetas commander who led the attack on   Avila and Zapata,  in a US court in May 2013. ’ ’   His plea came after guilty pleas from  Zetas gunmen involved in the   attack. ’ ’   Two more men involved were  to the US in   which   brought the total number of people charged in relation to the   attack to . ’ ’   The family of Zapata has also filed a    against the US government. ’ ’   Their suit, filed in 2013,  US officials involved in ”Operation   Fast and Furious,” which allowed weapons to cross the border and   fall into the hands of Mexican criminal groups, and alleged that   the section of highway Avila and Zapata were sent on was ”known   to be patrolled and controlled by a dangerous criminal   organization.” ’ ’   A State Department document seen by a Sky News  in March this year prohibited travel   to and from interior posts in Mexico, including Mexico City and   Monterrey, the cities Avila and Zapata were traveling between. ’ ’  ’ ” have found that two of the   weapons used in Zapata’s killing were trafficked by suspects the   US Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms was  but didn’t arrest. ” ’   ”Now we know that they knew” about the movement of the guns,   Avila, who joined the Zapata family’’s lawsuit,  Sky News earlier this year. ’ ’   ”No one has been held accountable for the death of Jaime and my   injuries,” Avila . ’ ’   ”Not the White House, not the Department of Justice, not the   Department of Homeland Security, ATF. No one has been held   accountable.” ’