’  ’ ’   The Dallas Cowboys beat the Pittsburgh Steelers   Sunday in a      affair that featured one of the wildest finishes   in the NFL this season. ’ ’   In 115 seconds late in the game, there were three touchdowns, a   perfectly executed fake spike, little defense, and a     effort to win the game. ’ ’   It began with Cowboys rookie running back Ezekiel Elliott running   in a touchdown with 1:55 to play, giving the Cowboys at     lead. The Cowboys went for two, but did not convert. ’ ’   On the ensuing drive, Ben Roethlisberger marched the Steelers   down the field to set up what figured to be the final possession.   With 53 seconds on the clock and one Steelers timeout remaining,   Roethlisberger faked spiking the ball (which would have stopped   the clock) and threw a gorgeous, floating pass to Antonio Brown   for the touchdown. The Steelers took a   lead. ’ ’ ’ ’   Even Steelers players were standing around, either fooling the   Cowboys or unaware of the play. ’ ’  ’ ’   Pittsburgh then went for two, only for Roethlisberger to be   picked off, nullifying the attempt. ’ ’   With 42 seconds remaining, the pressure was on Cowboys rookie   quarterback Dak Prescott to get the Cowboys up the field into     range.  ’ ’   And get them up the field, Prescott did. He completed three   passes. With the help of a facemask penalty on the Steelers, the   Cowboys gained 15 more yards. Now within field range, the Cowboys   simply needed to run the clock down. On the first snap, the   Cowboys fed Elliott, who broke through the entire defense and   scored his third touchdown of the day. ’ ’ ’ ’   The Cowboys again went for two, but were unable to convert. With   nine seconds remaining, the Steelers got the ball back. While   they converted two passes, they were unable to find the end zone. ’ ’   The Cowboys won   and have now won eight straight. In a week   that held big importance for the NFL, the league scored a win   with the Steelers and Cowboys playing one of the best games of   the year. ’