’  ’ ’   Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has been in office for just   a few months, but he has made clear his opinion of the current US   president, calling Obama a ”” ahead of a regional summit in   September. ’ ’   Duterte expressed regret, and the  on the sidelines of that   event. ’ ”   But the   relationship has continued to be strained   by Duterte’s rhetoric and his hostility to the longstanding   political and military relationship between the two countries. ” ’   Duterte, however, seems keen on the US  . ’ ’   On Wednesday,  during a visit to Malaysia,   Duterte said, ”I would like to congratulate President   Trump,” before declaring amid cheers, ”Long live, Mr. Trump! We   both curse at the slightest of reasons. We are alike.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Duterte’s   trip to Malaysia had something of a festive   air.  ” ’   Duterte  a karaoke rendition of Bette Midler’’s   ”Wind Beneath My Wings” and  a karaoke duet with Malaysian Prime   Minister Najib Razak, belting out ”   ” a hit   from the 1970s by Danish group The Walkers. ’ ’  ’ ’   Public singing is something of past time in the Philippines, and   karaoke machines are common  in Filipino homes.  to The New York Times, Duterte was   sometimes seen in the karaoke bars of Davao City, the   southern Philippine city where he was mayor for much of the last   30 years, where  belt out Frank Sinatra songs   while packing a . 38 pistol. ’ ”   The official statement released by Duterte’s office was more   measured than his comments in Malaysia, but it still expressed   more warmth than many of Duterte’s comments about the   US in the past. ” ’   ”The United States’’ presidential elections is a testament to the   enduring traditions of its democratic system and the American way   of life,” the statement,  by the Presidential Communications   Office, read. ’ ’   ”The   system gives American voters freedom of choice   based on party platforms, not just on personalities,” it went on,   : ’ ’  ’ ’   Many have noted the  in the personalities and   pronouncements of Duterte and Trump, and Trump has drawn  to the Philippine leader   throughout his campaign. ’ ”   Despite Duterte’s enthusiasm about Trump’s election, the mood   among Philippine policymakers has been mixed. ” ”   Duterte’s advisers, like their counterparts  looked at the   looming Trump presidency with more uncertainty. ” ’   “Candidates and presidents are two different people. So we will   …       have to wait and see what policies a Trump presidency will   implement” Finance Secretary Carlos Dominguez said this week,    to   News. ’ ’   The Philippines, where an  labor force is available for   lower wages than those demanded in the US, has grown in appeal    and been the recipient of   many outsourced jobs in recent years. ’ ”   Trump’s promises to return to the US jobs that have gone abroad   has stirred  in the Philippines, as have his   promises to crackdown on immigration, which could affect the flow   of remittances. ” ”   In the face of that   uncertainty, however, some in   the Philippines have heralded Duterte’s turn to China. ” ’  ’ ’   ”We have a safety net   …     [Duterte] foresaw that there’s this   likelihood of Trump becoming president, so he decided to pivot to   China,” Ernesto Pernia, the director general of the Philippine   National Economic and Development Authority, said,  to   News. ”Instead of   depending on the US to a great extent, we are now diversifying   our friends.” ’ ”   Others are less confident in the Philippines’ economic position   between the Asian and American giants. ” ’   Joey Salceda, a member of the Philippine House of Representatives   and an economist,  that the US economy still   outstrips the Chinese economy, and Manila would have no choice   but to deal with Washington. ’ ’   ”The protectionism applies does not only to the trade, but it   also applies to the flow of new ideas and new technology,”   Salceda . ”So it’s very negative for the world,   very negative for the Philippines.” ’