’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (AP)  —     Donald Trump is starting to   sound an awful lot like President Barack Obama on immigration. ’ ’   In his first postelection interview, Trump said he will focus on   deporting criminal immigrants and not everyone living in the   United States illegally. Two million or 3 million people could be   immediate targets for deportation under this approach, Trump   said, providing a likely inflated figure. ’ ’   And that ”big, beautiful wall” at the Mexican border? Trump said   he may be amenable to a fence along some parts of the roughly     border. ’ ”   The softened stance contrasts sharply with Trump’s campaign   rhetoric. As a candidate, he called for everyone living in the   country illegally to return to their home countries and for   Mexico to pay billions of dollars for the wall. ” ”   A look at Trump’s shifting immigration stance: ” ’   Trump said in an interview with ”60 Minutes” broadcast Sunday   that immigration enforcement will concentrate on criminals. ’ ’   ”What we are going to do is get the people that are criminal and   have criminal records, gang members, drug dealers,” he said. ”We   have a lot of these people, probably 2 million, it could be even   3 million; we are getting them out of our country or we’’re going   to incarcerate.” ’ ’   Trump added: ”We’’re getting them out of our country; they’’re here   illegally.” ’ ”   Obama’s Homeland Security Department has operated similarly.   Since 2010, criminals comprised more than half of those deported   from the U. S. Over his presidency, Obama has overseen the   deportation of more than 2. 5 million people. ” ’  ’ ”   Trump didn’t say Sunday how he will target criminals. He   previously has spoken about reviving programs that gave   immigration agents access to jails so they could identify people   living in the country illegally. ” ’   But if Trump does so, local jurisdictions likely will object.   Local laws in some places bar cooperation with immigration   authorities. And some federal court rulings make it difficult for   local jails to hold immigrants beyond their criminal sentences or   strictly for immigration violations. ’ ”   It is even harder to deport criminal immigrants who aren’t   incarcerated. Many live in the shadows. Tracking them down would   take a lot of time and government money. ” ’   Deportation costs average about $12, 500 per person, according to   a 2011 government estimate. ’ ”   Trump’s estimate of criminals who are in the country illegally is   probably much too high. ” ”   In 2012, Homeland Security officials estimated some 1. 9 million   criminal immigrants in the United States who could be deported.   But the government didn’t break down how many of those people   were in the country legally and how many were here illegally. ” ’   A subsequent analysis by the Migration Policy Institute, a   Washington think tank, concluded that only about 820, 000 of those   people were in the country illegally. The other million or so   people had some sort of legal status, including green cards or   visas. ’ ’   Deporting green card holders is possible, though the process can   involve lengthy court proceedings. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I will build a great, great wall on our southern border,” Trump   said as he launched his presidential campaign in June 2015. ”And   I will have Mexico pay for that wall.” ’ ’   He repeated the pledge at almost every rally. ’ ’   But in his weekend interview, Trump took a more nuanced approach. ’ ’   In certain areas, Trump said, ”it could be some fencing.”   Elsewhere, he added, the border wall was still appropriate. ’ ”   The   didn’t outline where a fence or a wall might   fit better. But his willingness to consider fencing marked a   considerable concession from his campaign stance. ” ’   Border fencing is nothing new. There is fencing along about 650   miles in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California, encompassing   almost a third of the border. ’ ’   Under President George W. Bush, Congress authorized $1. 2 billion   to build hundreds of miles of   fencing. The   Congressional Research Service and the Army Corps of Engineers   have estimated that the fencing already in place cost the United   States about $7 billion. ’ ’   Any new construction along the border would be a costly and   complicated endeavor. Cost estimates of a wall have ranged from   $10 billion to $20 billion. ’ ’   Trump would also face myriad environmental regulations,   objections from private land owners and a legally binding 1970   treaty with Mexico that governs structures along the Rio Grande   and Colorado River at the Mexican border. ’