Giants to Cowboys: Not yet. Dallas, riding an   winning streak, had a chance at securing the N. F. C. East division title with a win, but a pair of interceptions thrown by Dak Prescott  —   doubling his season total to four  —   ended the winning streak and dropped Prescott to   against Big Blue while he is   against everyone else. More important for the Giants, the   victory solidified the team’s standing as the top wild card contender in the N. F. C. Here’s how the rest of the N. F. L. playoff picture shapes up after Week 14: ■ Earl Thomas is very important. The   safety for the Seattle Seahawks is out for the rest of the season with a broken leg and the team’s vaunted secondary seemed lost without him in a blowout loss to the Green Bay Packers. Seattle still has a commanding lead in the N. F. C. West but will have to learn how to play without Thomas quickly if the team has any hope of competing in the playoffs. ■ A game can happen without Jameis Winston accounting for a touchdown. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback had either a passing or rushing touchdown in all 27 of his college games and his first 28 games in the N. F. L. but he was shut out in his team’s   win over New Orleans. Considering he went from winning 96. 3 percent of his games in college to losing 13 of his first 24 games in the N. F. L. he was probably just happy with the win, which kept the Buccaneers in line for one of the N. F. C. ’s two wild card spots. ■ The biggest N. F. C. North game of the 2016 season may come in 2017. With the Green Bay Packers having won three consecutive games after a   start to the season, and having winnable games in each of the next two weeks, a season finale on Jan. 1 against the   Detroit Lions suddenly seems like a   game. The Lions have a   lead, so they would need another loss before the game to make things interesting, but with road games against the Giants and Cowboys that is certainly possible if not likely. ■ The Houston Texans picked a good time to end the team’s losing streak. Houston may been losers of three straight, but in a vital division matchup against the Indianapolis Colts they rode a touchdown run by Lamar Miller and five field goals by Nick Novak to victory, keeping them in a tie with the Tennessee Titans for first place in the A. F. C. South, while the Colts are now a game behind both teams. ■ Teams should have emergency   in mind before the game. Because of injuries on the offensive line, the Philadelphia Eagles were forced into the awkward position of holding sideline tryouts for the underappreciated position. Brent Celek was a bust, with his snap on an   attempt being fumbled, but Trey Burton did better, with his snap landing cleanly for a   field goal by Caleb Sturgis. For good measure, Burton also had 7 catches for 65 yards in the game, but the loss likely dropped Philadelphia from any serious playoff discussion while keeping the Washington Redskins in the hunt. Odell Beckham Jr. only needed one play to steal the spotlight from the Dallas Cowboys’ pair of celebrated rookies, sprinting to a   touchdown late in the third quarter to give the New York Giants a   victory. The Cowboys’ attempt to avenge the only loss of rookie Dak Prescott’s N. F. L. career sputtered to a a   lead that was delivered on the team’s second offensive possession of the game. Prescott showed off a veteran’s ability to remain focused, just missing on a potential touchdown pass and then following it by rolling out on a bootleg that he sold so well that the entire Giants defense bit, leaving Terrance Williams wide open for a   touchdown. But the Giants’ defense stiffened, forcing turnovers and frustrating Prescott the rest of the way. Dallas has already qualified for a playoff spot, but will have to work hard to maintain the No. 1 seed and a   bye as they close the season with difficult matchups against Tampa Bay, Detroit and Philadelphia. The Giants, meanwhile, held onto the top wild card spot in the N. F. C. and will finish the season with a home game against Detroit and then road games in Philadelphia and Washington. Life without Earl Thomas may be quite a learning experience for the Seattle Seahawks. In Seattle’s first game without Thomas since 2009, the Packers exploited the absence of the   safety, who broke his leg last week. That, combined with an uncharacteristic   game from Russell Wilson led to an easy   win for the Packers on a cold night at Lambeau Field. Things for Seattle’s defense were bad from the start. On just the third play of the game, Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers rolled slightly to his right before seeing Davante Adams in   against Jeremy Lane. Rodgers, relying on Adams’ ability to outrun the cornerback, launched the ball downfield with Adams catching it in stride as Lane hit the turf. Adams cruised into the end zone untouched for a   touchdown. Perhaps more important than Lane’s failure in coverage was Steven Terrell, the safety charged with filling in for Thomas, not being able to provide any help on the play, trailing hopelessly behind as Adams crossed the goal line. Green Bay added to their lead with a   touchdown run from Ty Montgomery, the team’s wide receiver turned running back, and two touchdown receptions by Jordy Nelson, giving the receiver an N. F. L.  12 for the season. Rodgers, who set a goal for the Packers to “run the table” after a   start to the season, completed 18 of 23 passes for 246 yards and 3 touchdowns despite hobbling around for much of the game with an injury that may have been related to the hamstring issues he has been working through. With the score out of reach, Rodgers sat out almost the entire fourth quarter, but finished the game with a stellar passer rating of 150. 8, which was quite a contrast with Wilson’s 43. 7, as the Seattle quarterback, who spent much of the game running away from a relentless Green Bay   had perhaps the worst game of his career. The only other time Wilson had thrown four interceptions in a game was in the 2014 N. F. C. championship against the Packers, but the Seahawks went on to win that game in overtime. It was the worst margin of defeat of Wilson’s career, as he had never lost by more than 10 points in a regular season or postseason game, but with an    record, the Seahawks still have a wide lead over the   Arizona Cardinals in the N. F. C. West. The road to the playoffs is far more complex for the Packers, who still trail the Giants, Buccaneers and Redskins in the hunt for one of the conference’s two wild card spots. The Washington Redskins had blown a   lead in the fourth quarter and the Philadelphia Eagles, playing at home, seemed to have momentum on their side. But Washington kept pushing and Chris Thompson broke free for a     touchdown run in what proved to be a   Redskins victory. The Redskins, having regained the team’s lost lead, held strong against Carson Wentz on Philadelphia’s final drive, forcing a fumble that secured the team’s seventh win of the season. It was a wild second half, made even wilder as the Eagles resorted to sideline tryouts for a new longsnapper after a series of injuries. Brent Celek, a tight end, was sent out for one attempt but his snap was fumbled by Donnie Jones resulting in a turnover on downs that Washington converted into a touchdown. Trey Burton, also a tight end, then got a shot and found more success, with his snap being handled cleanly by Jones, who got it down for a   field goal by Caleb Sturgis. It was not one of Kirk Cousins’ prettier games. The Washington quarterback completed 14 of 21 passes for 234 yards and 2 touchdowns, and his   early in the fourth quarter initially appeared to be disastrous. But thanks to rushing touchdowns by Robert Kelly and Thompson, the game did not require Cousins to carry the entire offense. Philadelphia, meanwhile, continued a   theme of looking great at times but ultimately falling short as Wentz continues to try to adjust to life in the N. F. L. With the conditions in Buffalo getting brutal, and Ben Roethlisberger struggling with turnovers, the Pittsburgh Steelers put the ball in Le’Veon Bell’s hands and the star running back carried the team to a   victory over the Bills. Snow fell steadily in the game, with the condition of the field causing a significant delay to start the second half, but the Steelers, after initially showing a commitment to the passing game, let the weather and Roethlisberger’s three interceptions convince them to go back to basics. Bell was more than up to the task, carrying the ball 38 times for a   236 yards and 3 touchdowns, while also catching 4 passes for 62 yards. His 298 yards from scrimmage fell just short of Antonio Brown’s franchise record of 306. Playing in just his tenth game of the season following a   suspension, Bell’s efforts put him over 1, 000 rushing yards in a season for just the second time in his   career, with his average of 105. 3 yards a game representing a career high. The three touchdowns doubled his output for the season. With Bell shouldering the load for his team’s offense, Pittsburgh’s defense struggled some to contain the Buffalo offense in the second half, but ultimately did enough to secure the Steelers’ eighth win of the season while dropping Buffalo’s record below . 500. Here’s what else happened so far in N. F. L. Week 14: ■ Lions Hang On: Matthew Stafford scrambled for a   touchdown in the fourth quarter to give the Detroit Lions   victory over the Chicago Bears. On the Lions’ previous drive, Cre’Von LeBlanc intercepted Stafford and returned the pick for a touchdown to give the Bears a brief lead. ■ Jets Rally: Bilal Powell ran for 145 yards, including the     touchdown in overtime, to help Bryce Petty and the Jets rally from 14 points down on Sunday and beat the San Francisco 49ers,  . Petty threw an interception on his first pass of the game, and the Jets ( ) trailed by   less than five minutes into the game. San Francisco ( ) led,   at halftime but fell flat after that and lost a   12th straight game. ■ Texans Top Colts: Lamar Miller scored Houston’s only touchdown and the Texans defense stopped Andrew Luck on Indy’s final drive of the game to preserve a   victory on Sunday. Houston ( ) retained a share of the AFC South lead with by ending its   losing streak. The Texans won for the second straight year in Indy, have won nine straight against division foes and got their first sweep of the Colts in franchise history.  —   Associated Press ■ Tannehill Hurt as Dolphins Beat Cardinals: Ryan Tannehill threw three touchdown passes before being sidelined with a knee injury, and Andrew Franks kicked a   field goal as time expired to help the Miami Dolphins beat the Arizona Cardinals   Sunday. Tannehill limped to the locker room late in the third quarter after being hit around the legs by defensive tackle Calais Campbell as he released a completion. The Dolphins led   when Tannehill departed, and backup Matt Moore failed to lead Miami to a first down in his first three series.  —   Associated Press ■ Winston Scoreless in Bucs’ Victory: Jameis Winston and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers came away with a   victory over the New Orleans Saints that helped them stay in position for a   berth, but the game saw an end to an incredible streak from the young quarterback. After throwing or rushing for a touchdown in each of 27 games in college and his first 28 games in the N. F. L. Winston was kept out of the end zone, with Tampa Bay’s scoring coming off a Doug Martin run and three field goals. ■ Panthers Beat Chargers: Carolina’s defense forced a   five turnovers by Chargers’ quarterback Philip Rivers, recorded five sacks and a crucial   safety in a   win over San Diego.  —   Associated Press ■ Tickets for the underwhelming matchup between the Bengals (  ) and the Browns ( ) were listed on Stubhub for as little as $6 before the game, with the cold weather, snow, and awful football all contributing to keeping fans away. Those who stayed home seem smart as Cleveland lost to Cincinnati,  . It was an underwhelming return for Browns quarterback Robert Griffin III, who was    for just 104 yards.