’  ’ ”     Donald Trump ran on a platform of  and according to the   economics team at Goldman Sachs, that’s just what he is going to   deliver  —   to the detriment of the global economy. ” ”   In his 2017 outlook, Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman,   laid out just what he and his team expect the effect of Trump’s   policies as president will be on the global economy. ” ’   Hatzius examined the key Trump policy proposals  —     tax cuts for corporations and   Americans  —   and found that while the plan would give the US a     bump in GDP growth, it would be a drag on global   growth. ’ ’   ”This has negative spillover effects on other economies,   especially in EM economies with partially fixed exchange rates or   dollarized economies,” Hatzius wrote to clients in the outlook on   Wednesday. ”The reason for the greater impact there is that the   Trump agenda is likely to result in higher US interest rates and   therefore a stronger dollar.” ’ ’   Essentially, lower imports to the US and a  rate hikes, combined   with higher servicing costs for debt held in dollars, would   curtail economic activity, especially in emerging markets, and   drive global GDP lower than it would be otherwise. ’ ”   According to a chart from Goldman, global growth is expected to   be 0. 1% lower annually than the baseline projection without   Trump’s policies by 2020. While this may not seem like a lot,   global growth  and analysts call  so there is   little room for negative shocks. ” ’  ’ ”   Hatzius did say that the US GDP bump would come from fiscal   stimulus, but that it wouldn’t last too long. ” ’   ”The   effects are positive because the fiscal stimulus   package boosts US demand and this has positive spillover effects   to other economies,” Hatzius wrote in the note. ”However, the     effects on US growth are negative because the fiscal   boost peters out and the other policies  —   higher tariffs, reduced   immigration, and tighter Fed policy  —   weigh on growth.” ’ ”   Hatzius also noted that these projections are made with a     version of Trump’s policies. For example, he expects   only a 4 percentage point rise in tariffs on exports from Mexico   and China, about   lower than Trump’s campaign promises,   according to Hatzius. ” ”   This is because Congress could block the more extreme versions of   Trump’s policies. ” ’   As with much in the Trump campaign, however, there is room for   debate given the high level of policy uncertainty. According to   Hatzius, the risks of this uncertainty are skewed to the downside   for growth. From the note (emphasis added): ’ ’   In sum, according to Hatzius, Trump may make America great for at   least a few years, but the rest of the world would suffer because   of it. ’