’  ’ ’   The leader of the National Security Agency says there shouldn’’t   be ”any doubt in anybody’’s mind” that there was ”a conscious   effort by a  ” to sway the result of the 2016   presidential election. ’ ”   Adm. Michael Rogers, who leads both the NSA and US Cyber Command,   made the comments during a  presented by The Wall Street Journal in   response to a question about WikiLeaks’ release of nearly    from the Democratic   National Committee. ” ’   ”There shouldn’’t be any doubt in anybody’’s mind,” Rogers said.   ”This was not something that was done casually. This was not   something that was done by chance. This was not a target that was   selected purely arbitrarily. This was a conscious effort by a     to attempt to achieve a specific effect.” ’ ”   Rogers did not specify the   or the specific effect,   though US intelligence officials say they  the emails to   WikiLeaks after hackers stole them from DNC servers and the   personal email account of Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager,   John Podesta. ” ’   At least two different hacker groups associated with the Russian   government were found inside the networks of the DNC over the   past year reading emails, chats, and downloading private   documents. Many of those files were later released by WikiLeaks. ’ ’’ ’   The hack, which was investigated by the FBI and the cybersecurity   firm Crowdstrike, was linked to Russia through a lengthy   technical analysis, which was . Former NSA   research scientist Dave Aitel, who now leads another   cybersecurity firm, has called the analysis ”pretty dead on.” ’ ’   The hack of Podesta’’s private Gmail address was traced by   cybersecurity researchers to hackers with Russia’’s foreign   intelligence service, the GRU, because the group made an error   during its campaign of ”spear phishing” targets  —   tricking them   into clicking on malicious links or give up their passwords. The   researchers found that the group had targeted more than 100 email   addresses that were associated with the Clinton campaign,   . ’ ’   The Obama administration in October publicly accused Russia of   . ’ ’   ”The US intelligence community is confident that the Russian   Government directed the recent compromises of emails,” reads a   . ”These   thefts and disclosures are intended to interfere with the US   election process.” ’ ’   Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina  that he wants the Senate to   open an investigation into whether the Russian government meddled   in the US election. Russian President Vladimir Putin  denied his country was behind   the hacks. ’