’  ’ ’   The Seattle Seahawks beat the New England Patriots on Sunday,     in another     classic. ’ ”   The loss is just the Patriots’ second of the season and the first   with Tom Brady at the helm since he’s returned from his   suspension. ” ”   While Brady and the Patriots’ offense couldn’t find the end zone   from the goal line in four tries at the end of the game  —       —   it was the defense that   let the Patriots down. ” ”   The Patriots surrendered 31 points to a   offense, on   the road, coming into New England on a short week. The Seahawks   scored on seven of their nine drives, gained 23 first downs, and   went    on   attempts. Though the Patriots came   into the game allowing the   points in the NFL, they   also haven’t had the toughest schedule. To date, the Patriots   have only played one team ranked into the top half of the league   in offense  —   the Steelers, and they were without Ben   Roethlisberger that week. ” ’ one year ago, the   Patriots defense finished in the top 10 in points and yards   allowed. Over the course of a year, Bill Belichick has gradually   deconstructed that defense, highlighted by trading top     Chandler Jones and Jamie Collins for future draft   picks. What’’s left, Volin writes, are ”players who aren’t nearly   as physically talented, but are more  .” ’ ’   After the game, Patriots coach Bill Belichick said that the   secondary, which was torched by Russell Wilson and the Seahawks’’   receivers, had more trouble in man coverage than zone coverage,   suggesting there were individual struggles, not team struggles.   Belichick said after the game, ” ’ ”   In the third quarter, the Patriots’ defensive struggles were   encapsulated. On    from the Patriots’ 18, Russell   Wilson escaped the pocket as the Patriots’ pass rush   couldn’t get to him against a notably futile Seahawks offensive   line. Wilson, with time, threw across the field to a     Doug Baldwin for the touchdown. ” ’ ’ ’   While  that this was not   ”football 101,” suggesting it was a risky throw, it also   highlighted the Patriots’’ struggles. They couldn’’t get to Wilson   and let him throw across the field to a   top receiving   threat.  ’ ”   Later, in the fourth quarter, Wilson threw what became the     touchdown when the Patriots couldn’t get a stop from   their own 20 on   . Wilson hit Baldwin for another   touchdown, lobbing it over a beaten Patriots’ secondary. ” ’ ’ ’   Coming into the week, the Patriots ranked 18th in defense,   according to Football Outsiders. After giving up a   in   opponent points, that number is likely to fall. ’ ”   It says something about the Patriots’ overall skill that, even in   a poor defensive showing, they went down to the wire on a     stand. Their offense is so good that they’ll have a   chance to win nearly every game, even against other Super Bowl   contenders, like the Seahawks. But on weeks where their offense   fails  —   as it did on the final drive against Seattle  —   their   defense isn’t proving to be good enough to carry them. ” ”   The Patriots don’t face another dynamic offense for the rest of   the season. Of their remaining seven games, the only team they   face in the top 20 in Football Outsiders’ offense is the Miami   Dolphins. The Patriots may be able to hide their defense or   improve it against a batch of weak opponents over the next seven   weeks. ” ”   However, the common refrain in sports is that defense wins   championships. In the postseason, the Patriots won’t be able to   solely rely on their offense. ”