’  ’ ’     Donald Trump made one of the first hires of his   administration on Sunday by  to serve as White House chief   strategist. ’ ’   The appointment of the    former executive chairman of   Breitbart News set off a firestorm of criticism, as politicians   of all political stripes argued that he harbored sympathies for   white nationalist arguments and rhetoric. ’ ’   Organizations including the  and the  condemned Bannon for ”aggressively   pushing stories against immigrants” and his association with   ”unabashed   and racists.” ’ ’   The characterization of Bannon himself as   racist,   and white nationalist has been based mostly on articles  an     news website. ’ ”   But, while it does not stretch the imagination to hold Bannon   accountable for material published at the organization under his   leadership, it seems prudent to examine Bannon’s own words and   writings to try to understand his worldview. ” ”   Much can be gleaned from Bannon’s numerous columns at Breitbart   since taking over in 2012, as well his speeches at conferences   and on radio shows. ” ’  ’ ’   Broadly speaking, Bannon’’s columns at Breitbart reflect   abhorrence for   mainstream media organizations, such as   The New York Times and CNN, and ”the Left.” ’ ’   He criticized Bloomberg View as a ”  game   preserve of old liberal pundits,” asserted that the ” and derided   journalistic luminaries such as Walter Cronkite, Edward R.   Murrow, Sam Donaldson, and Dan Rather as ”partisan egoists.” ’ ’   Bannon referred to liberals as ” and called members of the Black Lives Matter   movement and New Black Panthers ”the crazies.” ’ ’   He frequently invoked George Soros as a liberal bogeyman,   describing him as one of Hillary Clinton’’s ”billionaire   financiers.” ’ ’   In a column from July, Bannon accused The Times and the   mainstream media of engaging in  terms birthed by George Orwell   for his dystopian novel ”Nineteen  ” to describe   language used to limit freedom of thought and propagate political   indoctrination. ’ ’   Bannon referred to the ”dirty work” being done by the ”MSM,” or   mainstream media,  critical of The Times for a book   review of ”The Loudest Voice in the Room,” a biography of Fox   News founder Roger Ailes. In a 2013 column he wrote about   ”” and the ”  game of     advocacy organizations” to smear conservative media. ’ ’   The only member of the   MSM to not receive outright   scorn is Fox News, which he describes as ”a lonely      bastion” and a ”centrist” news organization. ’ ’   In an August column, not long after Ailes’’ ouster from Fox News   amid multiple   allegations, Bannon  and the ”Minor Murdochs” whom he   sees as in charge of the news organization. He criticized James   and Lachlan Murdoch, the sons of Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of   Fox News’’ parent company News Corp. as being in favor of   ”politically correct liberalism” and being a ”progressive green,”   with an interest in global warming. To Bannon, not even Fox News   can be trusted anymore: ’ ’   Bannon’’s most pointed criticism of Fox News has revolved around   host Megyn Kelly, whom Bannon characterized in columns  using Fox News as a launchpad. He   skewered Kelly for asking questions during the first Republican   presidential debate in 2015 in ”the language of the left” and   called her performance ”.” ’ ’   Bannon frequently employed a rhetorical strategy that framed an   issue  —   or even two unrelated issues  —   as an   choice. ’ ’   In response to the Dallas police shooting in July, and amid   questions about police violence, Bannon : Should Americans let   ”street hoodlums” or ”duly appointed authorities” run the   country? Similarly, he asked whether police should be   ”reprogrammed to look the other way” from criminals or be   ”  ” and enforce the law. ’ ’   In his mind, that is the choice Black Lives Matter ”crazies” have   forced on the country. ’ ’  ’ ”   Bannon has also revealed his views while delivering speeches and   hosting Breitbart News Daily, a radio show on SiriusXM’s   conservative news channel Patriot. ” ’   In the summer of 2014, Bannon gave a speech and answered   questions at the Human Dignity Institute, a conservative   religious group that was holding a conference at the Vatican.   BuzzFeed attended the meeting and  on   Tuesday. ’ ’   A dominant theme in the talk, and on Breitbart News Daily, was   his belief that the West was engaged in ”a global war against   Islamic fascism.” ’ ’   ”We have to face a very unpleasant fact: and that unpleasant fact   is that there is a major war brewing, a war that’’s already   global. It’’s going global in scale, and today’’s technology,   today’’s media, today’’s access to weapons of mass destruction it’’s   going to lead to a global conflict that I believe has to be   confronted today,” Bannon said at the Human Dignity Institute. ’ ’   In December 2015, Bannon  for Breitbart News Daily. In the interview,   he appeared to frame solving the problems posed by climate change   and ISIS as mutually exclusive. ’ ’   ”Do you agree with the pope and President Obama that [climate   change] is absolutely a path to global suicide, if specific deals   are not cut in Paris, versus focusing on radical Islam?” Bannon   asked Trump, who chose ISIS. ’ ’   Bannon appears to believe the secularization of the US is tied to   the rise of ”jihadist Islamic fascism,” which he has said is   ”metastasizing far quicker than governments can handle it” and is   headed toward the UK and the rest of Europe. ’ ’   Bannon described three converging forces  —   the rise of ”jihadist   Islamic fascism,” ”  capitalism,” and what he   called the ”Ayn Rand or the Objectivist School of libertarian   capitalism.” He asked those in attendance at his Human Dignity   Institute speech to ask whether the US should put ”a cap on   wealth creation and distribution.” Moreover, he frequently   asserted that the ”  West” was at its most   prosperous when capitalists were strong believers in those   faiths. ’ ’   Bannon spent much of the HDI talk criticizing aspects of   capitalism, particularly what he called ”crony capitalism” and   ”corporatism,” which he asserted had overtaken the US and Europe.   He repeatedly trashed bankers for the 2008 financial crisis and   the US government for bailing out the banks and creating ”a free   option” for the financial industry to gamble. ’ ’   His deepest scorn was reserved for ”the Republican   establishment,” which he described as ”a collection of crony   capitalists that feel that they have a different set of rules of   how they’’re going to comport themselves.” ’ ”   Here’s how Bannon describes the tea party and Breitbart’s   dominant theme: ” ’   When a questioner at the event asked Bannon about charges of     or ”racial” aspects of movements like the tea   party, Bannon acknowledged that those ”elements” and ”fringe   organizations” show up, but he asserted that they would ”burn   away over time” as the movement becomes more mainstream. ’ ’   ”I think when you look at any kind of revolution  —   and this is a   revolution  —   you always have some groups that are disparate,” he   said. ”I think that will all burn away over time and you’’ll see   more of a mainstream   populist movement.” ’ ”   Bannon didn’t touch on immigration during his talk, but in a   November podcast with Trump, he .   When Trump said he wanted to let foreign students who graduate   from US colleges stay in the US, Bannon disagreed. Earlier in the   conversation, he criticized Silicon Valley for having numerous   CEOs from Asia. ”