’  ’ ’   In 2015, worldwide deaths from terrorism fell 10% from the   previous year, despite an increase in the impact of terrorism   around the globe, according to the Global Terrorism Index (GTI)   released by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP). ’ ’   The 29, 376   deaths recorded in 2015 were a 10%   decrease over 2014, marking the end of a   upward   trend.  ’ ’   But   violence spread, with 23 countries having   their highest number of deaths from terrorism last year, over the   previous high of 17 registered in 2014. ’ ’   Among Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development   countries, deaths from terrorism increased 650% with 21 of 34     recording at least one terrorist attack. The   majority of terrorism deaths among OECD countries took place in   Turkey and France. ’ ’   Iraq, Afghanistan, Nigeria, Pakistan, and Syria accounted for 72%   of all terrorism deaths in 2015. The Islamic State group (ISIS)   Boko Haram, the Taliban, and Al Qaeda  —   operating within those   five countries  —   were responsible for 74% of all     deaths. ’ ”   The spread of terrorism’s influence was driven by the expanded   activities of ISIS and Boko Haram, which has  to ISIS. ” ’  ’ ’   ISIS, with attacks in 252 cities resulting in 6, 141 deaths,   passed Boko Haram as the most lethal terrorist group last year. ’ ’   ISIS increased its activity from 13 countries in 2014 to 28 last   year, many of which were in Europe. Denmark, France, Germany,   Sweden, and Turkey all saw the most deaths from terrorism in a   year since 2000, and more than half the 577 deaths were related   to ISIS, which orchestrated deadly attacks in Paris, Brussels,   and Ankara. ’ ’   Boko Haram, a terrorist group that originated in Nigeria,   spread into Niger, Cameroon, and Chad, driving the number of   people killed in those countries up by 157%.  ’ ’   Both groups seemed to welcome the recent election of Donald Trump   as US president.  ’ ’  ’ ’ISIS leader in   Afghanistan, called the   ”a complete maniac,”   saying Trump’’s ”’ ’   Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau exhorted followers to   ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”While on the one hand the reduction in deaths is positive, the   continued intensification of terrorism in some countries and its   spread to new ones is a cause for serious concern and underscores   the fluid nature of modern terrorist activity,” Steve Killelea,   executive chairman of IEP, said in a release. ’ ’  ’ ’   The GTI report found issues like youth unemployment,   accessibility of weapons, and lack of trust in electoral   processes as some of the ”most statistically significant factors   correlating with terrorism” in OECD countries, according to a   release. ’ ’   In developing countries, the history of conflict, corruption   levels, and inequality correlated most significantly to   terrorism. ’ ’   Overall, the cost of terrorism rose to $89. 6 billion in 2015,   with Iraq suffering the highest economic impact, equal to 17% of   its GDP. ’