’  ’ ’   Globalization has been one of the dominant economic trends for   over 100 years. Expanding free trade and increasing the flow of   goods, services, and people from country to country has been a     invincible force since the late 19th century. ’ ’   According to George Saravelos and Robin Winkler, strategists at   Deutsche Bank, the era of expanded globalization is over and   . ’ ”   While we’ve written about the    before, Saravelos and Winkler made an interesting comparison to   the last time the US attempted to stem the tide of globalization. ” ’   Saravelos and Winkler noted that there was a time before the   election of Donald Trump that a Republican came into office, with   both houses of Congress on his side, calling for the protection   of the American economy. From the note: ’ ”   This led some of the US’s biggest trade partners to also raise   their tariffs against American goods in retaliation. Furthermore,   limits on capital flows and movement of people also put a drag on   economic growth. The end result contributed to the disaster of   the Great Depression. ” ’   ”As a result, US trade halved within years, and global trade   weakened even more, even if it continued at low levels within   regional trading blocs such as the Commonwealth and the remnants   of the Gold Bloc,” the note said. ”The rise in protectionism   served as an important catalyst to the global recession.” ’ ’   Many of the protectionist moves made by Hoover are echoed in the   suggestions of   Trump today. Several analysts have   noted that the large trade partners Trump has threatened with   tariffs  —    and   —   could also retaliate with their own tariffs. ’ ’   In fact, the Chinese government has threatened some measures such   as  if Trump goes through   with his policies. Additionally, Trump wants to stem the flow of   immigrants into the US, which could be a negative labor supply   shock. ’ ’  ’ ’   Saravelos and Winkler also noted that this issue was exacerbated   in the 1930s by developments in Europe. ’ ’   ”Flows in capital and people further declined in the early 1930s   as a wave of populist political movements spread through Europe,”   said the note. ’ ’ have been aiming to restrict the   flow of immigrants and pull back from the European single market.   And the  is a concrete example of   such a move. ’ ’   Saravelos and Winkler say that drawing a historical comparison is   ”not intended to argue for a repetition of history but to   highlight how a sequencing of events led to the unraveling of   global trade.” ’ ”   There are also some caveats here. For one, Trump’s proposals are   not as severe as the policies Hoover put in place. And economies   and people are already far more connected than they were in the   late 1920s. ” ’   While the strategists did not predict any sort of calamity from   this trend and Trump’’s policies, they said they ”doubt that   global growth will be helped,” and noted there could be serious   problems with the implementation of the policies. ’