’  ’ ’   Apple  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   The ultimate goal is a pair of smart glasses, and companies   including Google,   Apple and  are all actively developing or exploring such a   product. But in the   most popular augmented reality   applications will take place on a smartphone, as was the case   with this summer’s . ’ ’   By adding AR technology into the iPhone’s camera software, Apple   wants consumers to be able to point the phone at a     object and have it be recognized, according to the person   familiar with the matter. That would require creating or   licensing a database of 3D objects. ’ ”   Another early feature for Apple’s AR integration into the camera   app could be to recognize and manipulate people’s faces. Apple   integrated facial recognition technology into the photos app in   the most recent version of its iOS software, and purchased   FaceShift, a company with similar technology in 2015.  ” ’   Apple has acquired several AR and virtual reality technology   companies in recent years including Metaio, in February 2014 and   Flyby Media in January 2016. The employees from both groups   are now working in Apple’s camera group. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   Apple is also working on a pair of skinny, stylish smart glasses   that pairs to an iPhone to display contextual information,    and sources have told Business   Insider.  ’ ’   However, the timeline for the device is far into the future  —     2018 or later, according to the Bloomberg report. ’ ’   But there are some signs that the project has moved out of the   exploration labs and into a more advanced stage in which   Apple is exploring production.  ’ ’   John Border, who lists his title as ”senior optics manufacturing   exploration engineer,” joined Apple in September, according to   his LinkedIn profile. Border’’s bio describes him as a   ” ’ ’   Before joining Apple, he was chief engineer at Osterhout Design   Group, a small   company based in San Francisco.  ’ ’   ODG is notable as one of the few companies currently demoing a   fully functional pair of smart glasses. ODG sells a device called   the  that uses ”3D stereoscopic       HD displays” to superimpose computer graphics into the   real world. ’ ’   Take a look at their tech for yourself:  ’ ’ ’ ” If you know anything about Apple’s AR project, email the   author at kleswing@businessinsider. com. ”