’  ’ ”   The Syrian government seems pleased with US     Donald Trump’s stunning victory last week. ” ’   The government last week signaled its relief that Hillary Clinton   lost, saying it was ”happy” she did not win because ”she’’s the   one who considered all these terrorist, Islamist, jihadist groups   as moderate rebels.” ’ ’   And Syrian President Bashar Assad  by saying Trump will be a ”natural ally”   if he keeps his promise to fight ”terrorists” in Syria. ’ ’   ”We cannot tell anything about what he’’s going to do, but if . ..   he is going to fight the terrorists, of course we are going to be   ally, natural ally in that regard with the Russian, with the   Iranian, with many other countries,” Assad told Portugal’’s RTP   state television. ’ ’   Zakaria Malahifji, head of the political office of an     rebel group,  that he fears that things for Syria’’s   opposition ”will become difficult because of Trump’’s statements   and his relationship with Putin and Russia.” ’ ’   ”I imagine this is not good for the Syrian issue,” he added. ’ ’   A source close to the   community, who wished   to remain anonymous, put it bluntly. ’ ’   ”This is the most dreadful turn of events imaginable, I think,”   the source, whose family is from Damascus, told Business Insider. ’ ’   ”We’’re scared for our lives,” he added. ”But we’’re afraid if we   criticize Trump he will be more likely to let Russia bomb the   opposition into oblivion.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump has said he wants to try to work with Russia and Assad to   fight the Islamic State, and he has indicated that he could pull   back US support to Syrian rebels fighting the Assad regime. ’ ’   ”I don’’t like Assad at all, but Assad is killing ISIS,” Trump   said during the second presidential debate. ’ ’   And in an  last week, the     said ”we have no idea” who the rebels really are. ’ ’   On Monday, Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke on   the phone in their first postelection interaction. The day after,   Putin ordered the first airstrikes on Syria in more than three   weeks. ’ ’   In a heartening sign for the opposition, however, Congress on   Tuesday overwhelmingly voted to pass a bill  —   titled the   —   to place sanctions on   the Assad regime, as well as Russian and Iranian actors close to   it, for war crimes and crimes against humanity. ’ ’   The bipartisan legislation was proposed by New York Rep. Eliot   Engel, a ranking Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.   He said Tuesday that ”under this legislation, if you’’re acting as   a lifeline to the Assad regime, you risk getting caught up in the   net of our sanctions.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Rep. Ed Royce, a Republican from California and chairman of the   committee, said ”America has been sitting back and watching these   atrocities for far too long.” ’ ’   ”Vital US national security interests are at stake,” he said.   ”For there to be peace in Syria, the parties must come together.   And as long as Assad and his backers can slaughter the people of   Syria with no consequences, there is no hope for peace.” ’ ’   It is unclear what steps the   would take with   regard to Syria once he is inaugurated. He is reportedly  for his secretary of   state, including former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former   UN Ambassador John Bolton, and South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley.   Both Giuliani and Bolton are foreign policy hawks, and all three   have little diplomatic experience. ’ ’   Giuliani has implied that he would support a   zone in Syria   to stem the flow of refugees trying to enter the US and Europe. ’ ’   ”You pour them back into Syria, and you put them in a   zone   in Syria,” Giuliani  last year. ”Send them back to Syria. That’’s where   they belong.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Bolton, meanwhile,  the US to take on a more aggressive role in   challenging Assad’’s power, both with the creation of an   independent Sunni state in northeastern Syria and western Iraq   and by ”moving beyond sanctions and diplomacy, and ” in Iran, an Assad ally. ’ ”   In any case, some rebels and opposition leaders  —   frustrated with   what they perceive as a lack of support from the US  —   don’t think   Trump’s Syria policy would differ dramatically from that of   President Barack Obama. They remain steadfastly committed to   ousting Assad. ” ’   ”We are like cockroaches  —   nothing can kill us,” one opposition   leader  in Stockholm last week as news broke of   Trump’’s victory. ’ ’   Still, a European official  that the EU expects Trump ”will defer to   Putin on many things.” ’ ’   ”This one is actually rather simple for him,” the official said.   ”He will outsource it and concentrate on ISIS.” ’