’     Donald Trump and his transition team are at work   vetting individuals to serve in the incoming White   House cabinet. ’ ’   And a few names have cropped up repeatedly for the secretary of   state job  —   former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Tennessee   Sen. Bob Corker, former US ambassador to the United Nations John   Bolton, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, and South Carolina   Gov. Nikki Haley. ’ ”   Here’s a rundown on each candidate. ” ’  ’ ’   As of now, Giuliani is Trump’’s ”top pick” for secretary of state,    The Wall Street Journal. Giuliani was mayor of   New York City during the   terrorist attacks. He has been a   controversial figure on the campaign trail  —   he  at the Republican National Convention in   July and has been one of Trump’’s top surrogates ever since. ’ ’   Giuliani was a   prosecutor before he served as mayor,   which . While he was   mayor, he was known to practice a localized version of foreign   policy, The New York Times . He once kicked Palestinian leader Yasir   Arafat out of a symphony performance at the Lincoln Center in New   York, refused to dine with Cuban leader Fidel Castro, and   threatened to boot the UN from its headquarters in the city. ’ ’   The Times describes him as a neoconservative who supports Israel,   is suspicious of Iran, and believes in aggressive foreign policy. ’ ’  ’ ”   Corker  this week that he is being considered   for the secretary of state job and has had conversations with the   Trump transition team. Corker also, however,  that he doesn’t expect to get the job. ” ’   Corker has been a senator since 2007 and is the current chairman   of the Foreign Relations Committee. He seems to differ with Trump   somewhat on his views of Russia and its president, Vladimir   Putin. Corker  this week that, while its good for two world   leaders to begin their relationship on a ”positive note,” Putin   has also ”shown himself to be a brutal   leader” who   has ”worked against our national interests.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Bolton, a former US ambassador to the UN under President George   W. Bush, is another rumored pick for secretary of state. ’ ”   He’s a   neoconservative hawk who is currently a    at the American Enterprise Institute. In addition to   serving as UN ambassador, Bolton worked in the State Department   under Bush and was one of the architects of the Iraq War. ” ”   Like Trump, he opposes the Iran nuclear deal, but unlike the     he’s rather interventionist in his foreign   policy. ” ’  ’ ”   The former House speaker and Georgia congressman was another one   of Trump’s top surrogates during the campaign. Before the   election, Trump said that Gingrich would have a role in his   administration if he won, and Gingrich has  that he would like to be involved in   Trump’s government. ” ”   Gingrich was House speaker in the 1990s, but has since then    that, in many ways,   mirrors Trump’s. He ran for president in 2012, but failed to win   the Republican nomination. He also  during his time serving in the   House. ” ’  ’ ”   Haley’s  on Wednesday, according to MSNBC host Joe   Scarborough. The South Carolina governor has become a rising star   within the Republican party in recent years. ” ’   She delivered a   rebuttal to President Barack   Obama’’s State of the Union address this year, calling for unity   seeming to negate Trump’’s campaign tactics by urging people to   ”resist the temptation” of following the ”siren call of the   angriest voices.” She also took a swipe at     rhetoric, saying that ”no one who is willing   to work hard, abide by our laws, and love our traditions should   ever feel unwelcome in this country.” ’