’  ’ ”   If    White House strategic advisor Steve Bannon is   right, then Donald Trump’s infrastructure plan is going to be a   total disaster for the American economy. ” ”   Here’s what he said about the plan in the : ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   If the projects the government spends money on are not productive    —   ultimately paying for themselves and making the economy more   efficient  —   then you might as well light that trillion dollars on   fire and dance around it while blowing a hole in the country’s   balance sheet. ” ”   The perfect of example of this mistake can be found in China.   Over the past two decades the country’s economy has modernized at   breakneck speed. That, of course, meant building housing and   roads, bridges and trains. It was a marvelous growth engine until   it wasn’t. ” ”   And it wasn’t anymore when those roads and bridges started   leading to nowhere, and those housing units stayed empty. That   all happened because the government started building things for   which there was no demand. ” ’   In its quest to boost growth and keep people employed, China   instead just ended up racking up the massive debt that is   creating such huge problems for the Chinese economy. ’ ”   That’s why the world now has those infamous Chinese Ghost Cities. ” ’  ’ ’   To get out of its   recession Japan did something   similar. It went on an infrastructure building tear, spending   $6. 3 trillion between 1991 and 2008, . Now the country has immaculate roads   and tons of airports no one needs or uses, but it remains in the   throes of its economic downturn. ’ ”   The projects the government built were just not productive enough   to bring the country out of its slump, and they eventually just   ended up adding to the albatross of debt hanging around Japan’s   neck. ” ’   Before Bannon builds any shipyards, he should know that since   international trade has been on the decline for the last five   years, ship builders have been under intense pressure. South   Korean and Chinese shipbuilders suffered  the last year. ’ ”   So, that’s an indication that demand for shipyards is weak, to   say very the least. And, if trade continues to decline with   Trump’s   policies, that demand will continue to   decline right along with it. Building a shipyard, in that case,   will be a horrible waste of money. ” ”   What’s more, the more advanced and stable an economy is, the more   careful the government has to be with these projects. It was   easier for infrastructure investment to make a difference in the   economy after the crash of 2008, for example, because things were   so bad  —   so many people were out of work and so many companies   were on the brink of bankruptcy. ” ”   But when an economy is more stable, as the US has been in the   last few years, government spending has to be even more precise   if it’s going to make a marked positive difference. Investments   have to be wiser, or they’re just a drop in the bucket, or worse,   a costly mistake.  ”