’  Donald Trump has a lot of key positions to fill in the coming weeks that will shape his next four years in office.’ ’While  have been flying around about who he will appoint, Trump has so far only made  .’ ”We’ll update this list as he announces more senior leadership positions, but here’s what we know so far:” ’Obama administration counterparts: Rahm Emanuel, Pete Rouse, Bill Daley, Jack Lew,  (current)’ ”Duties: oversee the Executive Office of the President, serve as the president’s   man” ”Priebus’ former job: Chairman of the Republican National Committee” ’Bio:  44, got his law degree from the University of Miami in 1998. He worked his way up through the ranks of the  then g’ ’Reactions: While Priebus’’ hire may comfort the Republican establishment, it may aggravate some of Trump’’s supporters who expect him to fulfill his promise to ”” of .’ ’Obama administration counterpart: ’ ”Duties: serve as senior counselor to the president, shape the administration’s political strategy” ”Bannon’s former jobs: chairman of the   news site Breitbart,   strategist of the Trump campaign” ’Bio: Bannon, 62, graduated from Harvard Business School in 1983, and made much of his fortune as a Goldman Sachs banker and a longtime . Since 2011, he has led Breitbart News, the   website espousing   white nationalist positions, particularly on issues like immigration and trade. Bannon has two    daughters, whose  and   comments during their . He pleaded   and the charges were dropped. He has another   as well.’ ”Reactions: Bannon’s appointment set off a  with critics pointing to what they considered racially charged, bigoted rhetoric used on Breitbart under Bannon’s leadership.” ’Obama administration counterparts: Mark Filip, Eric Holder,  (current)’ ”: act as the country’s chief law enforcement officer, represent the US in court cases, provide the Executive Branch with formal and informal legal counsel and advice” ”Sessions’ former job: senator from Alabama” ”Bio:  69, was born and raised in Alabama, got his law degree from the University of Alabama in 1973, and served in the Army Reserve for 13 years. President Ronald Reagan nominated him as a US attorney in 1981, then he was elected as Alabama’s attorney general in 1994, and was first elected to the Senate in 1996. He is currently serving his fourth term. Sessions and his wife, Mary Blackshear, have three children and 10 grandkids.” ’Reactions: Sessions’’   jeopardized his chance to become a federal district court judge in 1986, when  called the NAACP and the ACLU ” .” Incoming Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said he is ”” about Sessions’’ civil rights record, a sentiment other liberals echoed. Many conservatives, meanwhile,  with Republican senators saying they’’d vote to confirm him.’ ’Obama administration counterparts: James Jones, Thomas Donilon,  (current)’ ”Duties: Provide the president’s daily national security briefing; coordinate the administration’s foreign policy, intelligence, and military efforts” ”Flynn’s former jobs: director of the Defense Intelligence Agency” ”Bio:  58, joined the Army as a second lieutenant in military intelligence when he graduated from the University of Rhode Island in 1981. Serving at home and abroad, Flynn worked his way up the ranks of the armed forces, eventually becoming the director of the  in 2012. The lieutenant general retired from the position in 2014. A registered Democrat, Flynn became an early supporter of Trump’s, advising the   on national security matters during the campaign. He and his wife, Lori, have two sons.” ”Reactions:  for being   for his questionable business ties to Turkey’s increasingly authoritarian president, for what some see as his overly positive views toward Russia, and for promoting conspiracy theories on Twitter during Trump’s campaign. He was also accused of being too hawkish when he was DIA director, which is why a  Flynn was forced out of the agency.” ’Obama administration counterparts: Leon Panetta, Michael Morell (acting) David Petraeus,  (current)’ ’Duty: oversee the Central Intelligence Agency’ ”Pompeo’s former job: US Representative for Kansas” ”Bio:  52, graduated first in his class from West Point in 1986, then served as a cavalry officer in the Army. After returning from active duty, Pompeo graduated from Harvard Law School in 1994, where he served as an editor of the Harvard Law Review. Pompeo moved to Kansas, where he founded and helmed aerospace and oil manufacturing companies. He has been the US Representative for Kansas’s 4th congressional district since 2011. The  of Florida in the GOP presidential primary, but eventually endorsed Trump once the business mogul secured the nomination. He and his wife, Susan, have a son, Nicholas.” ”Reactions: Several  expressing confidence in his ability to lead the CIA. Pompeo has been  he’s made in the past  —   scrutiny that reemerged after Trump announced his appointment.”