’  ’ ”     Donald Trump’s newly appointed national security   adviser, retired Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn, has outlined his plan to   defeat terrorism extensively in recent months. ” ”   One of Trump’s earliest   aligned supporters,   Flynn  did a circuit of media interviews, and spoke on   behalf of Trump’s campaign during the general election. ” ’   His book, ”The Field of Fight: How We Can Win the Global War   Against Radical Islam and Its Allies,” which focused on the   importance of identifying ”radical Islam” and its role in   terrorism. He defined the fight against terrorism as a ”world   war” and emphasized the need to begin the fight at home. ’ ’   ”If we cannot criticize the radical Muslims in our own country,   we cannot fight them either in America or overseas,” Flynn wrote   in the book’’s conclusion. ”Unless we can wage an effective   ideological campaign in the United States, we will not be able to   defeat the jihadis on foreign battlefields, because we will not   understand the true nature of our enemy.” ’ ”   Such views have led to Trump’s decision to appoint Flynn national   security adviser . ” ’’ ’   Flynn was formerly the head of the Defense Intelligence   Agency, and he spent years fighting terrorist groups in Iraq and   Afghanistan. Flynn was  and he  it’’s because he took a stand about ”radical   Islam.” Other accounts, including those of former officials   relayed  have blamed his   management style. ’ ’   Flynn has also emphasized the need for looser rules of   engagement for US soldiers in the Middle East and for a new     strategy. He wrote about ”attacking the enemy   alliance”  —   Russia and Iran  —   and strengthening the US’’ own   alliances. ’ ’   Flynn sat down with Business Insider after his book came out and   provided more insight into his strategy. ’ ’   ”This is where Muslims leaders in the Muslim world have to stand   up and be counted,” Flynn said. ”And right now they’’re not. And I   think we have to be, we have to use tough diplomacy  —   tough love,   if you will  —   to get them to be counted about where do they stand   on this particular aspect of their political system.” ’ ’   He has come under fire before for referring to Islam as a   ”political ideology” rather than a religion. ’ ’   Flynn has also framed the fight against the terrorist group ISIS   as a war against an ideology rather than simply a war against   militants on battlefields in Iraq and Syria. ’ ’   ”We’’re losing this ideological war,” Flynn said. ”They were   beating the most sophisticated military coalition brought to bear   since WWII in 2006 in Iraq, in 2009 in Afghanistan.” ’ ”   And he has expressed a desire to commit to overseas   engagements. He criticized the Obama administration’s troop   drawdown in Iraq, which some experts say created a power vacuum   that allowed ISIS to rise up. ” ’   ”We beat [Al Qaeda in Iraq] in 2011,” Flynn said. ”We proved   that their version of, their Allah, couldn’’t help them on the   battlefield. But though a political decision by President Obama,   he decided to pull everybody out. When you have victory in   warfare, you must sustain that victory. And we did not.” ’ ’   Flynn has also said he agrees with Trump that the US   military should be more careful about not showing its hand to the   enemy. ’ ’   ”What we are talking about here is options,” Flynn said. ”Giving   our country options against any enemy that we face, whether it’’s   China and cyber or Russia and nuclear weapons or ISIS and radical   Islamism, whatever that is, we want to give our country options,   and what we want to do is we want people to . .. wonder what   options we still have. What we cannot do is we cannot give   away, we cannot show those cards.” ’ ’     ’