’  ’ ’   In 2015, a tragic police encounter nearly tore apart the city of   Albany. Two white police officers on “firearms eradication”   detail in the neighborhood of Arbor Hill  on his way home from a corner store a   little past midnight on April 2. ’ ’   Despite the frigid weather, the officers found that the way he   pulled his   sleeves past his hands suspicious. After   running his name through a database, the officers decided to   conduct a   search. ’ ’   But each time the officers tried to touch the man he pulled his   hands to his side. As they tried to handcuff him, he resisted. ’ ’   When he ran, the officers gave chase. Only feet from the man’s   sister’s house, where he lived, police struck him with a baton   and repeatedly fired a Taser, which stunned him at least three   times. Eventually, they tackled him to the ground and handcuffed   him. Soon after, the man stopped breathing. Less than an hour   later he was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital. ’ ’   The man,    Donald “Dontay” Ivy, was mentally ill and   had a heart condition. Well known in the predominantly black   neighborhood as  and  . Police have said it may   have caused his atypical behavior during the encounter. As   one   official described to Albany’s     “Everything that could possibly go wrong, . ” ’ ’   The incident struck a stunning blow to the city. For decades   before that, the public had viewed Albany police as “an occupying   force,” in the words of police chief Brendan Cox. But over the   previous six years, city hall and the police department had made   public, forthright reforms toward more transparent, accountable,   and accessible policing  —   in particular, to the communities of   color, which make up . ’ ’   Cox, who had been elevated to acting chief of police just days   before Ivy’s death, and Mayor Kathy Sheehan went to great lengths   in interviews and public conferences to ask the public to hold   judgment until an investigation had been conducted. They said if   excessive force or wrongdoing was found, the department would   take action. ’ ’  ’ ’   “We’ve always tried to be transparent. We’ve always tried to make   sure that we did the right thing, and that’s what we’re going to   do here,” Cox  the day after Ivy’s death. ’ ’   In the days and months that followed  —   as in many other cities   where   deaths have occurred  —   hundreds of angry   protesters carried signs emblazoned with “Black Lives Matter” to   city hall and demanded answers. They attended city council   meetings to voice their disgust with the situation and held   demonstrations in the middle of major thoroughfares to disrupt   traffic. ’ ’   But unlike in Baltimore weeks later, the city avoided becoming “a   flaming city,” as Dannielle Hille, a prominent community   organizer in Albany, told Business Insider, because of extensive   efforts by police and community to repair a     relationship. ’ ’   “We could have easily been a Ferguson,” Hille said. ’ ’   For many in Albany, Ivy’s death was all too familiar. Allegations   of  and unfair treatment had strained the police   department’s relationship with the black community since the   1950s. ’ ’   But in 1984 tensions exploded when police . ’ ’   In responding to a disturbance call, police entered the apartment   of Jessie Davis, where they say the    came at them with   a fork and knife. The items  —   confirmed in a photo released   nearly a decade later  —   turned out to be a key case and a toy   truck. ’ ’   Protests erupted in the community and even among the police   department. The city’s police chief . ’ ’   The Davis shooting persuaded Alice Green, a prominent     activist, to join the frontlines in the battle to   change Albany police. In 1985 she started Albany’s Center for Law   and Justice (CFLJ) to advocate for   reform. After   decades of criticizing the department, however, she found herself   offering support in 2015 after the Donald Ivy incident. ’ ’   The community was furious. ’ ’   For many, the Ivy incident was proof that reforms had not reached   the entire city. And while Green didn’t absolve the police   department, she urged everyone to wait out the investigation. She   felt confident the department and Cox, in particular, would be   transparent, thorough, and honest. ’ ’   Many community leaders such as Green trusted Cox in the city’s   moment of strife because they had “witnessed” him and the   department try to approach situations correctly and not just   offer “lip service,” Carolyn McLaughlin, the president of the   Common Council, the city’s legislative body, told Business   Insider. ’ ’   But that didn’t happen overnight. ’ ’  ’ ’   After Ivy’s death, Cox created what he called an “    policy” with Ivy’s family  —   whatever the police knew, Cox shared,   even information he couldn’t produce publicly so as not to   interfere with ongoing investigations. ’ ’   Whenever a family member had a question or wanted to talk, Cox or   one of his staff made themselves available. As the investigations   progressed, Cox updated Ivy’s family with new developments and   evidence as they were obtained. In fact, he released the names of   the officers involved at the same time he released Ivy’s. ’ ’   “We didn’t hold anything back. It was important to us that [the   family] knew exactly what our investigation was showing and what   information we had because they had just lost a loved one,” Cox   told Business Insider. ’ ’   That wasn’t the case in Ferguson. ’ ’   There, the police chief addressed media on the night of the death   of Michael Brown but failed to provide much information on the   circumstances of the shooting or answer questions from the   public. Ferguson police waited six days to release the name of   Officer Darren Wilson. At the same time, they released video   footage indicating that Brown had been involved in a robbery   before the encounter. ’ ’   The move “” in Ferguson, according to a 2015   Department of Justice report. Some community members felt the   police were trying to “ for the shooting,” the DOJ said. ’ ’   By the time Cox became chief in 2015, the level of transparency   shown after Ivy’s death was protocol. But it would have been   unheard of before 2009 when a “”    —   as prominent Albany blogger Daniel Van Riper described it  —     shook up the tumultuous leadership at the department. The   scenario left assistant chief of police Steven Krokoff as   Albany’s  in a century. At 40 years old, he won   popular support by proposing an overhaul of the department toward   community policing. ’ ’   Proposed more than two decades years ago, community policing   seeks to improve public safety by encouraging officers to get to   know the city’s residents and hold regular town meetings to   foster communication and trust. The Obama administration has   touted the philosophy as  for embattled police, but the   idea   faces criticism as  than putting a few officers on   neighborhood beats. ’ ’   Such condemnations were familiar to Krokoff and Cox when they   decided to bring community policing to Albany. Both were hired   during the early 1990s when John Dale, the city’s first     chief, attempted to implement community policing   to help reduce  of the police reignited by the Jessie Davis   shooting. The effort failed after opposition from veteran   officers and superficial commitment. The only real change,   according to one officer at the time, was creating  with little training or institutional support dedicated   to policing Arbor Hill and South End, two predominantly black   neighborhoods. ’ ’   Krokoff knew that for community policing to succeed in Albany   this time, “a complete philosophical change” was needed,   according to Cox, not a policing strategy or PR tactic. ’ ’  ’ ’   Aside from keeping Ivy’s family updated, Cox led meetings all   over the city, many hosted by an organization called the Albany   Community Policing Advisory Committee (ACPAC) dreamed up by   Krokoff back in 2009, to close, in his words, the “”  gap with the community. ’ ’   During those meetings, Cox encouraged residents to express their   anger and voice concerns, according to Ray Moran, a lifelong   Albany resident and a former   of ACPAC. While   emotions were raw, what struck McLaughlin, the Common Council   president, was that each side  —   the police and public  —   listened   to what the other had to say. ’ ’   ACPAC consists of more than 15 city residents, two police union   reps, and Cox, who meet regularly to facilitate communication and   troubleshoot recurring issues. On any given day, ACPAC members   are on the street teaching people how to file complaints,   attending   meetings, and engaging with   the community in other ways. ’ ’   Even before the public meetings, the police briefed the ACPAC and   other community leaders on the incident and the investigation.   The “very open and very accountable” briefings, according to   Beverly Padgett  —   a founding member and   chair of the   committee  —   helped dispel misinformation on social media. For   example, some heard that Ivy had been left in the street by   police for four hours, a disproven rumor that . ’ ’   “When tragedies occur, it’s important to have relationships   there. You have to build them ahead of time. You can’t build them   in the wake of a tragedy,” Cox said. ’ ’   To understand how integral the ACPAC has become to the   functioning of Albany, consider that the day after Ivy died,   Padgett, a longtime police critic   held a meeting   with Cox. She said the chief was “devastated” to see the hard   work of the department and ACPAC come crashing down. After the   controversial death of a minority at the hands of police, she was   with Cox  —   not on the other side of an ”  ” divide. ’ ’   “I said to him, ‘It’s a test. You’ll pass it.’ He looked at me.   He didn’t say anything. He just nodded his head,” Padgett told   Business Insider. ’ ’   At the start of 2010, Krokoff tasked the ACPAC with rewriting the   department’s strategic plan and mission statement from the ground   up. To start, Krokoff identified 75 key residents, with an   emphasis on those “without a voice,” he said. He met with each of   them one on one to hear their thoughts. ’ ’  ’ ’   Soon after, regular meetings with LGBTQ activists and residents   led to an overhaul of the department’s policies and procedures   toward the transgender community. And then, a neighborhood   engagement unit (NEU) made up of officers and sergeants who    was soon rolled   out. Teams of the same officers patrolled the same neighborhoods   day and night. ’ ’   Aside from departmental changes, police began holding     BBQs, kickball with neighborhood kids, town halls, and “” events. Cox and other police staff began   attending events held by neighborhood associations, activists,   and   organizations. ’ ’  ’ ’   While the department has made huge strides, Krokoff said, the   credit for their success must go to people like Padgett and   Green, who worked tirelessly with the community. ’ ’   “ACPAC is not a part of community policing. ACPAC is community   policing. If you don’t have the people, you don’t have community   policing,” said Padgett. ’ ’  ’ ’   In October 2015, a grand jury found no criminal wrongdoing on the   part of officers in the Ivy case, and an investigation by   Albany’s district attorney, David Soares, . ’ ’   Afterward, Cox invited community leaders and ACPAC members to a   meeting so that his department could present the entire case.   During the   meeting, Cox and his staff  an autopsy report, and a “  ” analysis of   the event, much of which was later released to the public. ’ ’   The police department learned its lesson about the importance of   communication after      Moore was fatally shot   by police in South End in 2011.   Krokoff  a day later to answer questions and   share what little information he had  —   namely the officers’   identities and that Cream had pointed a handgun in an officer’s   direction during a struggle. More than 100 community members   spoke angrily over him. Krokoff said he now realizes that if he   had met with community leaders and provided information earlier,   the anger might have been defused. ’ ’   “It’s the vacuum of information that fuels the flames,” Krokoff   said. ’ ’   Even though Cox released the names of the officers involved in   Ivy’s death immediately and held briefings to go over the   investigation findings, some weren’t satisfied. Moran wanted more   answers but lauded Cox and the department’s   effort to   explain. ’ ’   And Celinda Okwuosa, Ivy’s aunt, slammed the results of the   investigation and called the policies that absolved the officers   “. ”   Local activist groups such as Capital Area Against Mass   Incarceration and Black Lives Matter: Upstate NY were also   incensed. ’ ’   And some, like councilman Mark Robinson, who lives in Arbor Hill,   have said the Ivy incident shows that community policing has yet   to reach communities of color. ’ ’   ”If there was community policing in place . .. they would have   known the history of [Dontay Ivy],” Robinson said  days after   the incident. ’ ’   In March, the New York Civil Liberties Union declared that    and though   Cox has rejected that characterization, the announcement   confirmed suspicions that Albany police mishandled the situation. ’ ’  ’ ’   After the grand jury’s decision, rallies and protests  —   which had   been held in the days after the incident  —   once again began in   earnest. ’ ’   Albany officers did not interfere and instead “stood on the   sidelines” in case of trouble, according to Padgett, who has   attended every   rally so far. When protesters flooded   major thoroughfares, Albany police closed down the street to make   sure they had “the room” to voice their concerns, Cox said. And   instead of wearing riot gear, NEU officers patrolled the protests   on bicycles. As policy, Albany officers never attend protests in   riot gear. ’ ’   At a demonstration days after the incident, both Padgett and   Moran served as “intermediaries” between demonstrators and   officers, despite the fact that they too were protesting the   incident. ’ ’   The demonstration took over a major thoroughfare in Arbor Hill   used by commuters for access onto the   freeway. Seeing the   logjam, Padgett asked the organizers if they could move the   demonstration so that commuters could drive home. ’ ’   To Cox’s surprise, they agreed to march to another location.   Moran then talked to demonstrators so that police would know   where the were going and, in turn, demonstrators knew to expect   police. The   officers stopped traffic and guided   the crowd of 200 people to their destination at city hall. ’ ’ ’ ’   The event was not without bumps. While Moran felt police were   supportive, he said his perception may be skewed because he knew   the officers. Others may still have felt the police were an   “authoritarian” presence. ’ ’   In fact, at one point during the march, a demonstrator shouted   that the police were going to charge the protesters. While that   was a false cry, it showed Moran that some of the   ”  ” mentality persists. ’ ’   While the police’s handling of the rallies  —   which McLaughlin   called “supportive”  —   may have helped to keep tensions from   exploding, Padgett said the credit must go to the demonstrators,   who channeled their frustration positively. ’ ’   “The people don’t want to riot. They want justice,” she said. ’ ”   In January, protesters  marching into   city hall during the event, unfurling large banners that read   “State of Denial” and “Justice for Dontay” and shouting and   singing as Mayor Sheehan tried to speak. To both the   demonstrators’ and the police’s credit, the protest happened   without interference or arrests. ” ’   “It’s a wound that is still very open for people,” McLaughlin   said. ’ ’  ’ ’   A month after the Ivy incident, Cox instituted  that limited officers to using stun guns   for only three short bursts during an encounter. (Officers   stunned Ivy at least three times and as many as .) While Cox denies the policy was a direct response to   the incident, he did say the timetable was moved up. ’ ’   The department also changed its   policy to   require officers to turn on audio microphones during street   encounters. And last month, after nearly a year of public   hearings, online feedback, and committee meetings, the department    for officers. ’ ’  ’ ’   Those changes were just the beginning. ’ ’   In December, Albany announced that it would be the third police   department in the US to implement a Law Enforcement Assisted   Diversion (LEAD) program designed to lower the number of people   who go through the   system, specifically the   addicted, homeless, and mentally ill. Instead of arresting, LEAD   connects offending individuals with a case officer who works to   figure out what he or she needs to stop living a life of crime,   including housing, rehabilitation, healthcare, and employment. ’ ’   In Seattle, the first city to implement LEAD, early reports   indicate  among its target population. In   Albany, Cox has instituted an extensive curriculum of  for officers on harm reduction, procedural justice,   implicit bias, crisis intervention, and     emergencies. Recruits now go through a       academy. ’ ’   “We need to be able to give a message to the people we serve that   we are willing to try something different,” said Cox. ’ ’   And while retraining officers, police partnered with instructors   to educate residents on the concepts. Before the roll out of   LEAD, for example, police held a series of town halls about the   program and the department’s adoption of a     philosophy, which stipulates the best way to help drug users is   to reduce the “” associated with drug use, namely death,   imprisonment, and disease. ’ ’   In May and June, the city held a series of open “” that served as an abridged     training for the public, which received considerable interest. ’ ’   Hille, who has since become the chair of ACPAC, attended one of   the May events and called them “a great start,” though she was   skeptical two hours could undo attitudes developed over decades.   The Rev. McKinley Johnson, a prominent religious leader in   Albany, attended an   training open to clergy members   and described it as “excellent,” “fair,” and “ . ” ’ ’   Johnson, 79, has lived in Albany his entire life. To explain the   changes happening in the community, the reverend relayed a   parable. “If you hit a hammer onto a table, the hit would be down   before you heard the sound. The sound comes later. ” In other   words, change takes a long time. ’ ’   For Robert Worden, an  at the SUNY University at Albany, who   makes his living as a   watchdog, the changes   have been stark. ’ ’   The new initiatives, according to Worden, who has conducted   considerable research on the success of police reform, have   filtered through as much of the department as “one could   reasonably expect” at this point, he said. And while he calls   Albany “one of the most progressive departments in the country,”   he called the reforms “fragile,” adding that community policing   efforts in the 1990s crumbled in the face of crime spikes. ’ ’   One of the department’s harshest critics, Melanie Trimble,   director of the  has been impressed with Albany’s   “groundbreaking” reform efforts. ’ ’   “If I am asked to point to a police department that is doing   things right from a   point of view, we usually   turn to the Albany Police Department and look at what they are   doing,” Trimble told Business Insider. ’ ’   More important to the community than the   reforms is   the    relationship. ’ ’   This summer, an annual basketball tournament in Arbor Hill    after fights, stabbings, and shootings erupted   the previous three years. Organizers and passionate community   members quickly arranged a series of conversations with Cox about   how to keep the event going. For McLaughlin, that “partnership”   says everything about the Albany Police Department’s new   direction. ’ ’   After agreeing to compromises, including    in the night, the event was back on in August. Hundreds attended    —   without incident. ’ ”   [Editor’s note: A previous version of this article cited   incorrect complaint averages from the CPRB due to a   statistical error. That has been corrected with the approriate   figures.] ”