’  ’ ”   A manhunt was underway on Sunday for a gunman who shot and killed   a San Antonio police officer sitting in a squad car during a   routine traffic stop outside the Texas city’s police   headquarters, authorities said. ” ’   The shooting unfolded when a second vehicle pulled up behind the   parked patrol car, San Antonio Police Chief William McManus said.   Its driver exited and fired two shots through a window, hitting   the officer as he filled out a traffic ticket. ’ ’   The suspect sped away from the scene in a black car, driving   through the parking lot that serves the San Antonio Public Safety   Headquarters on the western edge of downtown. ’ ’   ”A person pulled up behind the patrol car in a black vehicle, got   out, walked up to the passenger window, fired one round, shooting   the officer in the head,” McManus told reporters near the scene   of the shooting. ”He then reached in and fired a second round,   shooting him a second time.” ’ ’   McManus said he did not know if the motorist who was pulled over   for the traffic violation was connected in any way with the man   who shot the officer, a   veteran of the force. ’ ’’ ’   The chief said police were looking for an   male   wearing a hoodie and black pants, whose image was captured by   security cameras. ’ ’   McManus, who did not identify the slain officer, said officials   were searching for a motive, though he referred to the targeted   killings of police officers in Texas and Louisiana earlier this   year during his press briefing. ’ ’   ”This is everyone’’s worst nightmare,” McManus said. ”You never   want to see anything like this happen. Unfortunately, like   Dallas, like Baton Rouge, it’’s happened here now.” ’ ’   ”Attacks against law enforcement officers will not be tolerated   in Texas and must be met with swift justice,” said Texas Governor   Greg Abbott in a statement. ’ ’     Donald Trump, when asked about the events in San   Antonio, said the killing was ”terrible.” During his successful   campaign to win the presidency, Trump sought to portray himself   as the ”law and order candidate,” in part reflecting anger among   the electorate over the police killings. ’ ”   In July, five Dallas police officers were killed when a black   U. S. military veteran opened fire in a sniper attack during a   protest decrying police shootings of black men. Days later, a   gunman killed three police officers and wounded four others in   Louisiana’s capital of Baton Rouge. ” ’      ’ ’   (Reporting by Jim Forsyth; Editing by Frank McGurty and Alan   Crosby) ’ ’     ’