Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) Ten days have passed since a fire ripped through an Oakland warehouse during an electronic music show and killed 36 people. The Times is chasing a number of questions that arose after the fire. The latest of what we know: • The victims: On Wednesday, firefighters ended their search of the   structure that had housed a rambling artists’ colony. The final toll made it the country’s deadliest structure fire since 2003, when 100 people died at a nightclub in West Warwick, R. I. The Oakland victims, many of them artists and musicians who ranged in age from 17 to 61, have been profiled in The Times, The Los Angeles Times, San Francisco Chronicle and East Bay Times, among other publications. On Sunday, the first funerals were held for two of the victims  —   Jonathan Bernbaum, 34, and Draven McGill, 17  —   the Chronicle reported. • The cause: Investigators have not figured out how the fire erupted, but no evidence has suggested arson, they say. Scrutiny has centered on a possible electrical source. On Friday, officials ruled out an appliance that had seemed a likely culprit: a faulty refrigerator. Jake Jacobitz, who did electrical work at the warehouse, told East Bay Times that all of the structure’s power came from a single line threaded through a wall. Electrical breakers blew out frequently, he said. The authorities have warned we may never know for certain what caused the Dec. 2 blaze. Reporters from The Times’s graphics department illustrated how the mazelike layout of the warehouse complicated escape from the fire. • The owner: Chor Nar Siu Ng, the warehouse owner since 1988, has not been heard from. Examining city records, The Times’s Julie Turkewitz learned that Ms. Ng owns a number of properties in Oakland and has been fined in the past for “nuisance or substandard or hazardous or injurious” conditions. Several people who have stayed at the Ghost Ship said Ms. Ng had visited the warehouse, which was not permitted for residents. But it was unclear if she knew what was going on inside. • The master tenants: Derick Ion Almena and his wife, Micah Allison, who ran the Ghost Ship, have also avoided the public eye. Friends, associates and former tenants speaking in the news media have variously depicted the couple as misunderstood or manipulative. In an anguished interview on “Today” last week, Mr. Almena was asked whether he should be held accountable. “Should I be held accountable?” he said. “I can barely stand here right now. ” • The aftermath: Artists dwelling in illegal structures across the Bay Area are worried that inspectors would target them after the fire. The crackdown has been nationwide. There have been reports of spaces scrutinized or shut down in Baltimore, Nashville, Philadelphia, Dallas, Austin, Indianapolis, New Haven and Dubuque. Libby Schaaf, the Oakland mayor, said the city was weighing new measures to address fire safety, among them stricter requirements for smoke alarms and emergency exits. A criminal investigation into the fire is continuing. As Times reporters investigate the Ghost Ship fire, we are doing something new: posting regular updates on our findings. To share a tip or suggestion, email oaklandfire@nytimes. com. • Family members of victims killed in the 2011 Seal Beach salon shooting pleaded for a conclusion to the case. [Orange County Register] • San Jose drinking water is going to receive fluoride, years behind other Bay Area cities. [The Mercury News] • In college, but without a home: California students describe living in cars and sneaking into campus buildings to spend the night. [KQED] • Restorative justice practices at Fresno schools have curbed harsh punishments. But some teachers say their classes are out of control. [Fresno Bee] • Nina Jacobson is a Hollywood power player who brings the underrepresented to the big screen. [The New York Times] • Rabbi David Wolpe on sharing biblical stories and 100 years of life lessons with Kirk Douglas. [Opinion | Los Angeles Times] • No American company of Los Angeles Opera’s size is more committed to new and unusual work. [New Yorker] • Stanford University’s marching band was suspended after administrators found “a systemic cultural problem. ” [SFGate. com] • Property values have risen rapidly in San Francisco’s Bernal Heights, but there’s still a communal vibe. [The New York Times] • The best hot springs in California: Big Sur, Ojai and beyond. [Vogue] • On Sunday, “La La Land” won big at the Critics’ Choice Awards. The Golden Globe Awards nominees will be announced on Monday morning, followed by the Screen Actors Guild Awards nominees on Wednesday. • Catch performances of “The Nutcracker” in San Diego, Costa Mesa, Los Angeles, Modesto, San Francisco, Sacramento and Ukiah. • The   California Economic Summit begins in Sacramento on Tuesday. The   gathering of public and private leaders will discuss how the state can meet its water, housing and work force needs. • Can’t get to the snow? Winter Fest at the OC Fair and Event Center in Costa Mesa has you covered. Along with a snow play area, the festival offers lights, rides and ice skating. Opens Friday. Admission: $10. It’s getting close to that time when we start to ponder the year gone by. In that spirit, we’d like to inaugurate a contest, “Californian of the Year”  —   with you as judge. We’d love to know who you think deserves the recognition. Who can you nominate? Anyone. The nominee could be someone who made an impact in your community or on a larger stage. It could be a professor or an athlete, a librarian or a politician. In short: Tell us the Californian, in your view, who defined 2016. Email CAtoday@nytimes. com, and please be sure to include: • The name of your nominee. • A brief description of why you think he or she deserves the title. We’ll present a slate of finalists later this week and ask for your votes, then reveal the winner by the end of the year. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.