’  ’ ’   The Associated Press released a photo of Kansas Secretary of   State Kris Kobach meeting with Donald Trump, and Kobach was   holding papers that detail his plans for his first year in office   if he were selected for the top Department of Homeland Security   job. ’ ’   Kobach, who  Trump’’s ”immigration whisperer,” met with   Trump this week as the   plans his transition into   the White House. He’’s a rumored potential pick for secretary of   homeland security. ’ ”   Kobach is known for having a hardline stance on immigration, and   a portion of his homeland security plan reflects some of Trump’s   bolder campaign proclamations about securing US borders. ” ’   The paper shown in the photo, titled ”Department of Homeland   Security  —   Kobach strategic plan for first 365 days,” references   ”extreme vetting” questions for immigrants, a registration and   tracking system, and a shutdown of Syrian refugees seeking asylum   in the US. ’ ’  ’ ”   Here’s the text that was visible on the paper: ” ’   I.  ’ ’   Trump had mentioned ”extreme vetting” during the campaign and   controversially  that would   measure immigrants’’ views on Shariah, among other things. These   ”extreme vetting” rules would seem to apply to immigrants coming   from areas where ”there is a proven history of terrorism” against   the US and its allies. ’ ”   Kobach endorsed Trump early in his presidential campaign and has   said Trump’s idea to force Mexico to pay for a wall along the   southern US border came from him. ” ’   He also authored some of the strictest immigration laws in the   country. And  that Kobach ”helped write the book on   creating a federal Muslim registry” in the US. ’ ’   Also referenced in Kobach’’s document is the National Security     Registration System, which Kobach helped create while   he worked at the Justice Department under President George W.   Bush. The program was established after the   terror attacks   and required people from ” ” countries to undergo   interrogations and fingerprinting. ’ ’   A Sunday news release from Trump’’s transition team confirmed that   Kobach met with Trump and Vice   Mike Pence over   the weekend to ”discuss border security, international terrorism,   and reforming federal bureaucracy.” ’