’  ’ ”   Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney is   Donald   Trump’s top choice to lead the State Department in his   administration, . ” ”   Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee for president,  over the weekend. Sources familiar with the   transition team’s deliberations told The Journal that Trump is   leaning toward picking him for secretary of state. ” ”   But the decision is not yet set in stone  —   according to The   Journal, some in Trump’s orbit want him to instead pick former   New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who was viewed as the early     for the post. Others want him to look at candidates   aside from those two. ” ’   Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a top Trump ally, hinted on   Monday that he viewed Giuliani as the stronger pick. ’ ’   ”That entirely is a question of the   and deciding   whether in fact Romney would be willing to be his secretary of   state or in fact Romney would work to make Trump Romney’’s version   of the presidency,” Gingrich said. ’ ’’ ’   He added: ”I think they’’ve got to talk it through. I am for   whoever the   picks. I think there are huge   advantages to Rudy Giuliani, frankly. I think that if you want   someone who is going to go out and be a very tough negotiator for   America and represent American interest in the way that Trump   campaigned, I think that probably Rudy is a better pick and has   the right temperament.” ’ ”   Giuliani was one of Trump’s earliest supporters, while Romney   became one of Trump’s most vocal critics throughout the campaign. ” ’   Romney spoke out against Trump frequently and refused to endorse   him despite Trump endorsing Romney in 2012. Romney  in the general election. ’ ’   Trump also  during the campaign, calling him a ”spoiled   brat” and ”nasty guy.” ’ ’   After the election, Romney said on Twitter . ’ ’   Other developments on Tuesday indicate Trump’’s Cabinet is   starting to take shape. He said he’’s ”” retired neurosurgeon and former Republican   presidential candidate Ben Carson for secretary of housing and   urban development. ’ ’   The Journal also reported that Trump was likely to name retired    and favors South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley as a   candidate for US ambassador to the United Nations. ’