’  ’ ’   Donald Trump has called climate change a “hoax” and said he plans   to unburden American industries from   requirements to   limit emissions of carbon dioxide and the other greenhouse gases   causing the planet to warm. ’ ’   In the crosshairs of his agenda  —     —   is a 2009   determination by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency that   greenhouse gases are dangerous to human health and security, a   ruling that serves as the foundation for the EPA’s efforts to   curb   emissions and that affects its governing of   everything from automobile exhaust to power plants to   refrigerators. ’ ’   But overturning that rule  —   known as the “endangerment finding”  —     might prove difficult, if not impossible, to accomplish with   anything like the simple administrative stroke of the pen,   according to legal experts. ’ ’   “Attempting to overturn the endangerment finding would be like   running toward a machine gun,” said Michael Gerrard, director of   the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University.   “Scientific support was very strong when it was issued in 2009;   it has become much stronger since then. ” ’ ’   The rule represented the direct evolution of a 2007 decision by   the U. S. Supreme Court, one that determined that the EPA not only   had the authority to regulate climate gases as pollutants under   the federal Clean Air Act, but was obligated to do so. The court   directed the EPA to examine the scientific evidence and determine   if greenhouse gases posed a threat to the public. ’ ’   The EPA did that  —   examining everything from the potential for   more damaging hurricanes, to death rates due to ozone and heat   exposure, to deadly exposure to pathogens  —   and concluded in   unambiguous terms that there was “compelling” reason to believe   the gases threaten the health of Americans, and that the threat   would get worse. ’ ’  ’ ’   The agency’s conclusion rested on thousands of pages of     research, from the Intergovernmental Panel on   Climate Change, from the U. S. Global Climate Research Program,   and from the National Research Council. The agency wrote its   rules and subjected them to public criticism. The public   submitted voluminous comments, all of which were reviewed by the   EPA before it issued a final rule. ’ ’   The original   process alone took 14 months, (or 10   years if you count the arguments leading up to the 2007 Supreme   Court fight). After its completion, The American Chemistry   Council and other groups petitioned the  to review the validity of the finding. In 2012,   that court upheld the EPA’s endangerment rule, finding that the   agency’s interpretation of its authority and of its obligation to   regulate carbon dioxide “. ” ’ ’   In order to effectively eliminate the rule now, one former EPA   attorney told ProPublica, the Trump administration would likely   have to reargue the original decision, including the merits of   the scientific evidence, and then build on it. ’ ’   Per the Supreme Court’s 2007 decision, the new administration   would have to use existing evidence to prove no risk is posed by   climate gases. Then it would have to explain how new information   that has emerged since 2009  —   a period including the hottest   years on record, some of the biggest storms and driest droughts,   and destabilizing mass human migration  —   demonstrate how the EPA   erred in its 2009 conclusion. ’ ’  ’ ’   It’s a steep hill to climb, and, as Gerrard points out, would   inevitably lead to a fresh wave of lawsuits both against the EPA   and against polluters directly in courts across the country. ’ ’   In the meantime, the EPA remains obligated to enforce the     rules on record. ’ ’   There is, however, another option, but not one the Trump   administration can execute alone: Congress could render the   Supreme Court’s 2007 decision moot by passing new legislation   amending the Clean Air Act itself  —   changing the landmark 1970   environmental law so as to explicitly exclude its oversight of   carbon dioxide, methane and the pollutants known to be driving   climate change. ’ ’   Such a step would inevitably invite filibuster resistance not   only among Democrats, but among Republicans concerned about   climate risks, said Gerrard. ’ ’   David Goldston, director of public affairs at the Natural   Resources Defense Council, said Trump and other Republicans may   try and chip away at environmental enforcement or regulations   that are based on the finding, but not likely the finding itself. ’ ’   “There’s a reason why, despite all the ideological gnashing of   teeth for 20 years at least, that Republicans haven’t actually   been able to touch the Clean Air Act successfully,” Goldston   said. “It passed by a wide bipartisan margin, and it turns out,   it’s almost like an article of faith with the public. ” ’