’  ’ ”   A   piece of North Carolina law could allow   Republican lawmakers to declare Pat McCrory the winner of the   race for governor  —   even though he’ll probably end up   with fewer votes than his opponent. ” ’   But such a decision would likely be challenged in federal courts,   prolonging a stalemate in the Tar Heel State that has already   lasted two weeks. ’ ”   McCrory, a Republican, finds himself trailing Democratic   challenger Roy Cooper by about 6, 600 votes out of 4. 7   million cast, according to unofficial results. He’s already    and lodged challenges of voter   fraud in 50 of the state’s 100 counties. ” ’   Several of the complaints have been thrown out because of a lack   of evidence, but if McCrory sows enough doubt about the   legitimacy of the election results, he could theoretically urge   lawmakers to take matters into their own hands. ’ ’   According to  the General Assembly can settle a ”contested   election” by ordering a   or by simply choosing the   winner themselves, ”i ’ ’’ ”   Their decision would not be reviewable by state courts, but if   the   legislature actually flipped the election   McCrory’s way, federal courts could challenge the decision. ” ’   ”If it is absolutely clear that this is a power grab by the N. C.   legislature because there is no question who received more votes,   then I could see a federal court saying that the legislature is   violating due process by, in essence, overruling the majority’s   will,” University of Kentucky law professor Josh Douglas . ’ ’   The statute has been invoked only once, in 2005, to settle a   dispute in the race for state superintendent of public   instruction. In that contest, according to the  lawmakers argued   over ”whether 11, 000 provisional ballots should be counted   even though they were cast in precincts outside of where the   voters lived.” ’ ’   Having lawmakers settle the election is an ”absolute last   resort,” North Carolina House Speaker Tim Moore said on a podcast   last week. ’ ’   ”It would really be a blow to the system for the legislature to   decide this one,” Ferrel Guillory, an expert on North   Carolina politics, . ”The chances are relatively slim, as   they ought to be.” ’