’  ’ ”   Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein is raising money   for a recount in several key states following New York magazine’s   report that several top computer scientists told Hillary   Clinton’s campaign that they had found . ” ’   In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Stein press director Meleiza   Figueroa said Stein would be filing for a recount, though   Figueroa said she ”can’’t let you know the details yet.” ’ ’   ”The Green Party has always been at the forefront of fights to   stand up for our democracy,” Figueroa said. ’ ’   Stein also announced a   campaign to ”demand recounts   in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania,” where the campaign   claimed there are ”significant discrepancies in vote totals.” ’ ”   As of midday Wednesday, Stein had raised less than $10, 000.   That’s nowhere near her goal of raising $2. 5 million by Friday,   which is around $500, 000 less than she raised in the entire   election cycle. ” ’   It’’s unclear why Stein is raising money to spur a recount that   would in theory throw the election to Clinton, whom Stein called   the ”queen of corruption.” ’ ’   The Guardian reported on Tuesday that  who declined to pursue a   recount, citing a lack of funds. ’ ’   The Green Party candidate appears to be slightly in debt.   According to a Federal Election Commission filing from     Stein had just under $30, 000 less on hand than she   owed in campaign debts. ’ ”   Despite the FBI’s contention that Russia was involved in several   hacks aimed at sewing discord within in the Democratic Party,   many experts argued that the claims of actual vote interference   appear thin. ” ”   Sources in New York magazine’s report argued that there may be   electronic voting machine manipulation. However, although   Pennsylvania primarily relies on electronic voting machines,    that they’re virtually unhackable because   they are so outdated and do not have internet connection   capabilities. And Michigan uses only paper ballots. ” ”   Vox noted that New York magazine’s report  of voting discrepancies.   According to the New York magazine report, Clinton performed   worse on average in Wisconsin counties that used electronic   voting machines, but it could be that Trump simply performed   better in those counties. ” ’   Princeton polling expert Sam Wang argued that polling error   appeared far more likely: ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’   are part of a national pattern of polling error. In Trump states, error was 6 percentage points. In Clinton states, 0. 2 points. ..’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t. ..in      points, right in line. If this was fraud, it would have encompassed dozens of other states, not consistent  . ’t’t’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tNote that WI presaged trouble for Dems: Feingold running surprisingly weak. Consistent with GOP voters undecided re Trump, then coming home. ’t’t’