’  ’ ”   Though   Donald Trump’s policy positions have been   difficult to pin down throughout the campaign and even now, one   thing has become abundantly clear: Trump just wants to be loved. ” ”   That’s according to  from Frank Bruni, an opinion columnist at The   New York Times, who sat down with Trump and other Times employees   for a  on Tuesday afternoon. ” ’   ”I’’m going to get you to write some good stuff about me,” Trump   told Bruni as the two men shook hands. ’ ’   Trump opened the conversation with The Times by discussing his   ”tremendous respect” for the paper. He had dubbed it the   ””   New York Times on Twitter just hours before the meeting. ’ ”   Bruni wasn’t fooled by the compliment. ” ’   ”He’’s saying what he knows this audience wants to hear,” Bruni    on Wednesday morning. ”One of   the few constants in Donald Trump’’s political life is his zest,   his zeal for adoration.” ’ ”   Later in the Times conversation, Trump said something that might   lead one to infer that Trump’s overarching desire is to be loved   by everyone, both liberal and conservative: ” ’   Trump walked back many of the most extreme claims he made on the   campaign trail in the interview, including  Hillary Clinton, and he told reporters   that he has an ”open mind” on . ’ ’   He also emphatically praised President Barack Obama despite   having questioned in the past if he was born in the US, expressed   skepticism about waterboarding suspected terrorists, and said   he’’d ”love” to be the one to broker peace between the Israelis   and Palestinians. ’ ’   ”You find him talking a much different game with The New York   Times than you did on the stump,” Bruni told Ruhle. ”This was a   much more moderate, reasonable Donald Trump.” ’ ’  ’ ”   In his column, Bruni described Trump’s change in tone: ” ’   In the Times interview, Trump also said ”it’’s very important”   that his presidency ”bring the country together.” His motivation   for doing so is revealing  —   because he got booed at a public   event after he ”started thinking about politics.” ’ ’   ”I’’ve never had a person boo me, and all of a sudden people are   booing me,” he said, according to the Times transcript. ”So it’’s   something that I had never experienced before.” ’ ”   Trump is a master at playing to his audience, but that’s a cause   for deeper concern, according to Bruni. ” ’   ”There was a lesson here about his desire to be approved of and   his hunger to be loved,” Bruni wrote. ”There was another about   the shockingly unformed, pliable nature of the clay that is our       . . .. The most influential voice in   Trumplandia is the last one he happened to listen to. ’