’  ’ ’   MILWAUKEE (Reuters)   Green Party presidential candidate Jill   Stein said on Thursday she has raised $3. 5 million to force   recounts of the Nov. 8 election results in Wisconsin, Michigan   and Pennsylvania, three states where Donald Trump scored narrow   wins.  ’ ”   The campaign said it exceeded its initial goal for raising $2. 5   million and has enough money to pay Wisconsin’s $1. 1 million   filing fee due on Friday. At the same time, the party said it   raised its target to $4. 5 million, with filing deadlines   approaching in Pennsylvania on Monday and Michigan on Wednesday. ” ”   Stein is pushing for recounts because experts pointed to   statistical anomalies in the tallies in all three battleground   states, according to the party’s website.  ” ’   Trump, a Republican who ran as an   maverick,   carried all three states by narrow margins despite public opinion   polls pointing to victories by Hillary Clinton, the Democratic    . ’ ’   ”We deserve elections we can trust,” the campaign said, adding   that the effort was not intended to help Clinton. ’ ’’ ”   A representative of the  ’s transition team could   not be reached for comment. ” ’   But Kellyanne Conway, a senior Trump adviser, suggested that   efforts to force recounts were ironic, given harsh criticism of   Trump before the election when he would not say whether he would   accept the result of what he called a ”rigged” political system. ’ ’   ”Look who can’’t accept the election results,” Conway said in a   Twitter message, pointing to a headline in the New York Times   that read ”Hillary Clinton Supporters Call for Vote Recount in   Battleground States.” ’ ’   Although Clinton won more votes than Trump on a nationwide basis,   the real estate developer exceeded the number of votes in the   Electoral College needed to take the presidency. Electoral votes   are apportioned state by state, mostly on a      basis.  ’ ’   Stein took a little more than 1 percent of the popular vote,   while Libertarian Party candidate Gary Johnson came in third   place behind Trump and Clinton.  ’ ”   Stein’s website said that the total cost of recounts in the three   states was $6 million to $7 million, but it did not explain why   the campaign’s new target was only $4. 5 million. ” ’   (Additional reporting by Frank McGurty in New York; Editing by   Lisa Shumaker) ’