’  ’ ’   Canadian Prime Minister Justin, whose   family’’s ties with the late Cuban leader Fidel Castro go back   decades, mourned the loss of a ”remarkable leader” on Saturday,   sparking a flurry of criticism and humor at his favorable tone. ’ ’   Castro, who died on Friday aged 90, won support for bringing   schools and hospitals to the poor but also created legions of   enemies for his ruthless suppression of dissent.  ’ ” were markedly more   positive than most Western leaders, who either condemned the   revolutionary leader’s human rights record or   around the   subject.  ” ’   Instead, warmly recalled his late   father’s friendship with Castro and his own meeting with Castro’s   three sons and brother  —   Raul, Cuba’s current president  —   during   a visit to the island nation earlier this month.  ’ ’   ”While a controversial figure, both Mr. Castro’s supporters and   detractors recognized his tremendous dedication and love for the   Cuban people who had a deep and lasting affection for ’’el   Comandante’’,”said in the   statement.  ’ ’   He called Castro ”larger than life” and ”a legendary   revolutionary and orator.” ’ ’   Fidel Castro was an honorary pall bearer at the 2000 funeral   of’s father, former prime minister   Pierre Elliot. In 1976, the   seniorbecame the first NATO   leader to visit Cuba since its revolution, at one point exhorting   ”Viva Castro!” ’ ’   ”I know my father was very proud to call him a friend and I had   the opportunity to meet Fidel when my father passed away,” the   Canadian prime minister said on Saturday. ’ ’did not see Fidel Castro during his   official visit to Cuba in November ’ ’   His statement was met with puzzlement and derision by some   Americans, including Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, who is of   Cuban descent. ’ ’   “Is this a real statement or parody? Because if this is a real   statement from the PM of Canada it is shameful and embarrassing,”   . ’ ’   Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, who is also of Cuban descent, agreed with   Rubio,  ’ ’   In a series of tweets, Cruz suggested that Trudeau and   President Barack Obama  —   whose own  avoided directly criticizing Castro, although   steered clear of praise  —   ”take a min (sic) to look into the   eyes of victims of communism” before ”slobbering adulation on   tyrants.” ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tDisgraceful. Why do young socialists idolize totalitarian tyrants? Castro, Stalin, Mao, Pol Pot    all evil, torturing murderers.   ’ ’   Top political scientist  his disdain, saying ”Cuban citizens and   exiles deserve better.” ’ ”   Trudeau’s statement spawned the Twitter hashtag   #Eulogies, which quickly began trending as   people emulated upbeat tone and lack of criticism. ” ’   ”While controversial, Darth Vader achieved great heights in space   construction and played a formative role in his son’s life,”   tweeted @markusoff, riffing on the Star Wars movie villain. ’ ”   Canada, long one of Cuba’s closest Western allies, hosted secret   talks between Cuba and the United States, brokered by the   Vatican, that led to the resumption of diplomatic ties between   the two foes last year. ”