’  ’ ’   Former Cuban leader Fidel Castro has died, his brother, Cuban   President Raul Castro, announced on   media. ’ ”   President Castro announced Fidel’s death . ” ’   ”At 10:29 in the night, the chief commander of the Cuban   revolution, Fidel Castro Ruz, died,” he said. ’ ’   ”Ever onward, to victory.” ’ ’   Castro had been in failing health for years, and was the subject   of death rumors for nearly as long. ’ ’   His cause of death was immediately unclear. ’ ”   Cuba declared nine days of national mourning as people took to   the streets in Little Havana, Miami to celebrate the late Cuban   revolutionary’s death on Friday night. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Fidel Castro was born Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz on August 13,   1926, in the small eastern village of Biran. His father was a   wealthy sugarcane farmer; his mother worked as a maid to his   father’s first wife. ’ ’   Castro received a Roman Catholic education through high school.   He later excelled as an athlete and went on to law school at the   University of Havana, where he would find an interest in   politics. ’ ”   A more radical bent soon emerged, as Castro plotted and executed   several attempts at overthrowing Cuban leaders and making an   attempt at a bid for Cuba’s House of Representatives. Following a   series of offensives, he seized power in 1959 from Cuban dictator   Fulgencio Batista. He did not look back. ” ’   Though he was admired by leftists worldwide, Castro was demonized   by the US and many of its allies. ’ ’   Once in power, Fidel Castro moved quickly to nationalize   businesses across the island, moving away from the US and toward   the Soviet Union. The US officially cut all diplomatic ties with   Cuba in January 1961. ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ”   Some extended condolences to Cuba over Castro’s death, including    ” ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   To many exiles awaiting Castro’s death, however, the   late revolutionary embodied a   regime that jailed   political opponents, suppressed civil liberties, and wrecked the   island’s economy. ” ’   Florida senator Marco Rubio, a   whose parents left   Cuba in 1956, released a statement Saturday morning saying   that ”history will not absolve Fidel Castro.” ’ ’   ”His communist regime turned [Cuba] into an impoverished land   prison,” Rubio wrote. ”Over six decades, millions of Cubans were   forced to flee their own country, and those accused of opposing   the regime were routinely jailed and even killed.” ’ ’   Rubio added that ”sadly, Fidel Castro’’s death does not mean   freedom for the Cuban people. ..the dictator has died, but the   dictatorship has not.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Cuba is still being ruled by Castro’s brother, Raul. ” ’   Texas senator Ted Cruz, whose father fled Cuba in 1957,   wrote on Facebook that ”F ’ ’  ’ ”   US President Barack Obama has not yet released an official   statement on Castro’s death.  ” ”   Cuba’s insular policies began to thaw a bit in 1998, when Pope   John Paul II became the first pontiff to visit the nation. Pope   Benedict would follow more than a decade later. ” ’   In 2003, Castro was confirmed as president for another     term. Then in the waning years of his rule, Castro oversaw   several initiatives that led to a major crackdown on independent   journalists, dissidents and activists, and a strengthening of   ties with Venezuela. ’ ’   The Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas was birthed from   that, in which Cuba sent health professionals to Venezuela in   return for discounted oil. ’ ’  ’ ’   By 2006, Castro handed provisional control of Cuba to his   brother, Raul, while Fidel reportedly recovered from a major   intestinal surgery. That was the first time he surrendered   control of his power in 47 years. ’ ’   He did not return. ’ ’   In 2008, when the National Assembly prepared to reconfirm Fidel   as Cuba’s leader, . ’ ’   At that point, he hadn’t been seen publicly for nearly two years. ’ ’   The letter was posted to the Communist Party’s website   Granma, in which Castro said, “I do not bid you   farewell. My only wish is to fight as a soldier of ideas. ” ’ ’   Castro made several more public appearances in 2010, but   officially stepped down from the Communist Party of Cuba in 2011,   leaving the younger Raul Castro to introduce possibly the most   significant change in Cuba since the 1960s, announcing a   deal with the Obama administration to reinstate diplomatic ties   with the US in 2014. ’