’  ’ ’     Donald Trump on Saturday ripped what he termed a   ”scam” effort from Green Party nominee Jill Stein aimed   at requesting recounts in Wisconsin, Michigan, and   Pennsylvania.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”And as Hillary Clinton herself said on election night, in   addition to her conceding by congratulating me, ’’We must accept   this result and then look to the future,’’” Trump said. ’ ’  ’ ’   The Clinton campaign  despite not finding any ”actionable evidence” of   hacking or attempts to ”alter voting technology.” ’ ’’ ’   ”We had not planned to exercise this option ourselves, but now   that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to   participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner   that is fair to all sides,” Elias wrote. ’ ’   In his statement, Trump highlighted the fact he won the vast   majority of battleground states, total states, and the more than   2, 600 counties in the country. ’ ’   ”This recount is just a way for Jill Stein, who received less   than 1% of the vote overall and wasn’t even on the ballot in many   states, to fill her coffers with money, most of which she will   never even spend on this ridiculous recount,” he said. ”All three   states were won by large numbers of voters, especially   Pennsylvania, which was won by more than 70, 000 votes.” ’ ’   ”This is a scam by the Green Party for an election that has   already been conceded, and the results of this election should be   respected instead of being challenged and abused, which is   exactly what Jill Stein is doing,” he continued. ’ ’   Stein, along with another   candidate, filed petitions   in Wisconsin on Friday to conduct a recount in the state,   where Trump narrowly beat Clinton by roughly 30, 000 votes.   Stein has also been raising money for potential challenges in   Michigan, where Trump  by just more than 10, 000   votes, and in Pennsylvania, Trump won by roughly 70, 000 votes. ’ ’   The Green Party nominee came under fire after asking for   additional money after her first goal of $2 million was surpassed   earlier this week, claiming she now needed as much as $7 million   to successfully push for a recount. ’ ’     ’