’  ’ ’   François Fillon will stand for the French conservatives in the   upcoming presidential election after claiming victory over Alain   Juppé in the Republican party primary on Sunday. ’ ”   Partial results based on   of the primaries’ polling   stations showed Fillon winning by a huge margin of nearly 40%. ” ”   Fillon is set to go    with Marine Le Pen of     party Front National in May’s election, meaning that the French     is set to be excluded from the contest altogether   after five years of socialist Francois Hollande in power. ” ”   Fillon, a socially conservative   advocate who has been   dubbed as France’s answer to former UK Prime Minister Margaret   Thatcher,  ” ’   The former prime minister pledged to unite The Republicans party   in a victory speech that he delivered on Sunday   evening.  ’ ’   ”My approach has been understood: France can’’t bear its decline.   It wants truth and it wants action. I will take up an unusual   challenge for France: tell the truth and completely change its   software,” he added. ’ ’  ’ ’   A spokesperson for the Front National said that the party   welcomed Fillon’’s victory as it represented a ”great” opportunity   for Marine Le Pen to take control of the party’’s highest office.   Fillon has vowed to implement a range of tough economic policies,   such as ’ ’  ’ ’   Speaking in an interview last week, Philippot described Fillon’’s   manifesto as a ”programme of chaos.” He said: ”It’’s impossible   that this austerity cure does not trigger chaos.” ’ ’   Opinion polls have for months forecast that the     candidate and Le Pen would qualify for the second round of the   presidential election in May and that Le Pen would then lose. ’ ”   But polls, which had until just days before his victory, failed   to forecast Fillon’s comeback, are taken with an increasingly big   pinch of salt, especially after shocking results elsewhere in the   west like Brexit and Donald Trump’s victory in the US Presidental   Election. ” ”   All eyes now turn to the ruling Socialist party and to whether   the deeply unpopular President François Hollande will decide to   run for the   ticket in his party’s primaries in January,   amid signs that his prime minister, Manuel Valls, is considering   a bid of his own. ” ”   France, the eurozone’s second largest economy, has faced   stubbornly high unemployment under Hollande, and the past two   years of his term have been marked by Islamist militant attacks   that have killed 230 people and focused attention on immigration   and security concerns too. ”