’  ’ ’   Top election officials from the three states     Donald Trump alleged without evidence had ”serious voter   fraud” ripped the claim as ”unfounded” and ”unsubstantiated”   on Monday. ’ ’   Trump had appeared to be angered by a recount effort that was   underway in Wisconsin after a petition from Green Party nominee   Jill Stein and another   candidate was put forth. He   had also claimed he would have won the popular vote over   Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton  —   who is currently leading him   by more than two million votes  —   if ”millions” did not   ”illegally” vote for her, a claim he provided without any   evidence. ’ ’   The real estate magnate claimed that the voter fraud took place   in Virginia, New Hampshire, and California. ’ ’   ”So why isn’’t the media reporting on this?” he tweeted. ”Serious   bias  —   big problem!” ’ ’   Virginia Commissioner of Elections Edgardo Cortés called the   claim ”unfounded.” ’ ’’ ’   ”The election was fair and all votes cast by eligible voters were   accurately counted,” he said. ’ ’   New Hampshire Deputy Secretary of State David Scanlan told NBC   News the state has ”no evidence” of widespread voter fraud. ’ ’   ”This is not the first time that there have been claims like that   made about New Hampshire elections,” he said. ”We don’’t have any   evidence, and there has been nothing filed with our office or the   Attorney General’’s office that there’’s widespread voter fraud in   New Hampshire. ’ ’   In California, Secretary of State Alex Padilla tweeted Sunday   night that Trump ”appears. ..troubled” to be losing the popular   vote. ’ ”   After Michigan was awarded to Trump Monday, the Manhattan   billionaire’s Electoral College advantage over Clinton expanded   to   . ” ’   ”It appears that Mr. Trump is troubled by the fact that a growing   majority of Americans did not vote for him,” Padilla wrote. ”His   unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in California and   elsewhere are absurd. His reckless tweets are inappropriate and   unbecoming of a  .” ’