’  ’ ’   Retired Gen. David Petraeus  on Monday to discuss   the possibility of serving as the next secretary of state. ’ ’   ”I was with him for about an hour,” Petraeus said after the   meeting, according to a pool report. ”He basically walked us   around the world. Showed a great grasp of a variety of the   challenges that are out there and some of the opportunities as   well.” ’ ’   He added: ”Very good conversation and we’’ll see where it goes   from here. We’’ll see where it goes from here.” ’ ’   The pool for the secretary of state job is thought to be narrowed   down to two candidates  —   former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani   and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney. ’ ’   But there has been infighting in the Trump camp lately about the   two candidates. ’ ’’ ’   Top Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway has  about Romney, questioning his   foreign policy experience and saying that Trump supporters might   feel ”betrayed” by the selection of someone who was a vocal   critic of Trump during the primaries. And some Republicans    about Giuliani’’s foreign business ties   affecting his ability to win confirmation from Congress for the   job. ’ ’   Petraeus has said that he would serve in a Trump administration   if asked. ’ ’   A top official on Trump’’s transition team  that Petraeus has significant support in the   Trump camp and that Trump is ”inclined” to pick him. Trump   himself  after the meeting that he was   ”very impressed” with Petraeus. ’ ”   The retired   general, however, doesn’t exactly have a     résumé. ” ’   Petraeus resigned his post as CIA director in 2012 after his   affair with his biographer, Paula Broadwell, was made public. And   last year, he  to a misdemeanor charge of mishandling   classified information. ’ ’   Petraeus gave Broadwell eight notebooks that he kept while he was   the commander of coalition forces in Afghanistan, containing   everything from his daily schedule to classified information   about identifies of covert officers, war strategy, intelligence   capabilities, diplomatic discussions, quotes from     National Security Council meetings, and discussions with the   president, . ’ ’   He also lied to FBI investigators about giving Broadwell   classified information, according to the documents. ’ ’   Before the scandal, Petraeus was one of the most famous and     generals of his generation. He commanded forces in   both Iraq and Afghanistan and rewrote the manual on   counterinsurgency, a strategy that led to Al Qaeda being wiped   out in Iraq (before it reemerged as ISIS after the US pulled   troops out of the country). ’ ’   Petraeus also oversaw the 2007 surge of US troops into Iraq,   which was widely heralded as a success. ’ ’   After he left the CIA, Petraeus became chairman of the KKR Global   Institute, a subsidiary of an investment firm that focuses on   economic forecasts, public policy, and emerging markets. ’