SYDNEY, Australia  —   Bill English, a veteran conservative politician, became New Zealand’s 39th prime minister on Monday after the governing National Party chose him to succeed John Key, whose resignation a week ago took New Zealand by surprise. Mr. English, 54, was the favorite to succeed Mr. Key, 55, a popular prime minister who had led the National Party to three election victories since 2008. Next year, Mr. English, who was Mr. Key’s finance minister and deputy prime minister, faces the challenge of winning a fourth consecutive election for the National Party. “I want to be a prime minister where New Zealanders feel they can flourish here,” Mr. English said at a news conference in Wellington on Monday. “Not just some New Zealanders, all New Zealanders. ” New Zealand political analysts said that while the National Party was expected to win the next election, the resignation of Mr. Key had given the   Labour and Green Parties hope that they could still claim an unlikely victory. In explaining his decision to resign one year before his term ended, Mr. Key, a former Merrill Lynch executive, cited a desire to spend more time with his family and said he had never wanted to be a career politician. Analysts said Mr. English had his work cut out for him to replicate Mr. Key’s popularity with voters. “Bill English is not a natural leader,” Jon Johansson, a senior lecturer in the school of history, philosophy, political science and international relations at Victoria University in Wellington, said in a phone interview. “He is a technocrat, and that will make the task of the National Party winning a fourth consecutive term much more difficult. ” Mr. Johansson put the chances of the National Party’s winning the 2017 election at 50 to 60 percent. If Mr. Key had not stepped down, Mr. Johansson said, the party’s chances would have risen to 90 percent. Still, Mr. English’s steady stewardship of the New Zealand economy through the 2008 financial crisis counts in his favor. In 2016, economic growth has been 2. 8 percent, and New Zealand’s Treasury forecasts growth of 3. 6 percent next year, with unemployment falling to 4. 8 percent from the current 5 percent. “He’s very experienced, and in political terms he is quite old,” Colin James, one of New Zealand’s   political commentators, said in an interview. “If he can maintain support for the National Party at around current levels, he will be well liked in the party. ” In the 2014 election, the National Party got 47 percent of the vote. The Labour Party received 25 percent, and the Green Party received 11 percent. The National Party governs with the help of small   parties. “John Key dominated our politics and had his foot on the throat of the opposition for eight years,” Mr. Johansson said. First elected to Parliament in 1990, Mr. English has also been a minister in charge of regulatory reform, education and health. He was sworn in as prime minister at a brief ceremony on Monday after Mr. Key formally resigned. A Catholic, Mr. English has opposed   marriage, which became legal in New Zealand in 2013. Despite a reputation for lacking charisma, he displays a dry, laconic wit as a public speaker and has boxed publicly for charity. But in 2002, he led the National Party to its worst ever performance in a century, said Mr. James, the political commentator.