’  ’ ’   China’s manufacturing sector is humming right now. ’ ’   The government’s latest purchasing managers index (PMI) jumped to   a more than   high of 51. 7 in November. ’ ’   The figure was higher than the 51. 2 level of October and   expectations for a decline to 51. 0. ’ ’   It was the   level since April 2012, matching the   figure reported in July 2014. ’ ’   The PMI measure changes in activity levels across China’s   manufacturing sector from one month to the next. A reading above   50 indicates that activity levels are expanding while a     figure suggests they are contracting. ’ ’   50 is deemed neutral, with the distance from this level   indicative of the strength of the expansion or decline. ’ ’   Though not high by historical standards for China, as shown in   the chart below, activity levels are definitely on the improve. ’ ’  ’ ’   According to the China’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) the   improvement was yet again driven by larger manufacturing firms   whose PMI jumped 0. 9 points to 53. 4. ’ ’   Activity levels for   manufacturers also returned to   growth, rising 0. 2 points to 50. 1. Smaller manufacturers, in   comparison, saw activity levels weaken with the subsector PMI   slipping 0. 9 points to 47. 4. ’ ’   Reflective of the strength in the headline PMI, the NBS reported   that production, new orders and purchase quantities all improved   at a faster pace than October, a good sign for activity levels in   the months ahead. ’ ’   Imports and new export orders also expanded having contracted in   the previous month. ’ ’   Despite the clear improvement in activity levels, firms continued   to shed staff, albeit at the slowest pace seen in over a year,   while the cost of raw materials continued to soar, hitting   another   high of 68. 3. ’ ’   Good news for the global economy, especially given that it’s not   just the manufacturing sector that is looking healthy. ’ ’   Others, including services, are too. ’ ’   The government’s   PMI  —   released alongside the   manufacturing report  —   rose to 54. 7 in November, some 0. 7 points   higher than the level reported for October. ’ ’   It now sits at the highest level seen since June 2014, indicating   that activity levels across other sectors in the economy are now   expanding strongly. ’ ’  ’ ’   Taken together, the reports indicate that China’s economy is   ending 2016 on a strong footing, something few believed was   possible when tepid economic data earlier this year was roiling   financial markets. ’ ’   The recovery this year, in part, has been driven by a surge in   public infrastructure spending and residential construction,   helping to not only underpin economic growth but also commodity   prices. ’ ’   With the economy now clearly strengthening, the question now is   whether the government will persist with fiscal stimulus heading   into 2017. ’ ’   There’s already signs that it is with China’s National   Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) approving infrastructure   projects worth 338 billion yuan so far in November, adding to the   299 billion yuan approved in October. ’