’     Donald Trump on Thursday warned that     corporations would not be able to outsource their jobs to other   countries without facing ramifications under his administration. ’ ’   ”Companies are not going to leave the United States anymore   without consequences,” Trump told workers assembled at the   Indianapolis plant of the   company Carrier. ’ ’   ”Not going to happen. It’’s not going to happen, I’’ll tell you   right now,” he added. ’ ’ ’ ’At Carrier plant, Trump says “Companies are not going to leave the United States anymore without consequences. ” ’ ”   Gregory Hayes, CEO of United Technologies, Carrier’s parent   company, announced this week that United Technologies would      after talking with the incoming administration and receiving a $7   million incentive package from the state. It had planned to move   2, 000 jobs out of the country  —   some of those will still be   outsourced. ” ’   But moving forward, Trump said ”one of the things we are doing to   keep” companies in the US is lowering the corporate tax rate from   35% to 15%. ’ ’’ ’   ”It’’s terrible for business,” Trump said of the current tax rate. ’ ’   The   added that his administration would aim to   reduce regulations placed on businesses. ’ ”   The speech was Trump’s first since declaring victory on election   night. ” ”   While much of his remarks focused on the Carrier deal, the speech   featured many of the hallmarks of the   mogul’s   campaign rallies. ” ’   Trump relitigated the Indiana Republican primary from May, noting   that he handily won the state once considered a ”firewall” for   Never Trump forces. ’ ’   The   also praised retired basketball coach Bob   Knight and continued to hammer the media, zeroing in on nightly   news programs. ’ ’   ”I don’’t like them even a little bit,” Trump said. ’ ’   The speech, part of Trump’’s nationwide ”Thank You” tour, came   after the   toured the Carrier factory for about 45   minutes. Trump is scheduled to speak next at an Ohio rally on   Thursday evening. ’