’  ’ ”   MADISON, Wis. (AP)  —   The tedious task of recounting Wisconsin’s   nearly 3 million votes for president began Thursday with scores   of hastily hired temporary workers flipping through stacks of   ballots as observers watched their every move. ” ’   The action in Wisconsin could soon be duplicated   in  and Pennsylvania, where Green   Party presidential candidate Jill Stein was pushing for recounts. ’ ’   Donald  narrowly beat Hillary Clinton   in all three states, but recounts were not expected to flip   nearly enough votes to change the outcome in any of the states. ’ ’   The Wisconsin recount marked the first time in 16 years there was   a   recount of a presidential recount. But it does   not carry the same drama as the Florida presidential recount of   2000, when the outcome of the election between Al Gore and George   W. Bush hung in the balance. ’ ’   ”This is certainly not Bush v. Gore,” said Wisconsin’’s chief   elections administrator, Mike Haas. ’ ’’ ”   Even so, the campaigns for  Clinton and   Stein all had observers spread throughout the state to watch the   process. The recount will have to move quickly. The federal   deadline to certify the vote to avoid having the fate of   Wisconsin’s 10 electoral votes decided by Congress is Dec. 13.   Even if that were to happen, the votes would almost certainly go   to  since Republicans control both   chambers of Congress. ” ”   Most counties will manually recount the ballots, although Stein   lost a court challenge this week to force hand recounts   everywhere. The state’s largest county, Milwaukee, was recounting   the ballots by feeding them through the same machines that   counted them on election night. In Dane County, where Clinton won   71 percent of the vote, the ballots were being counted by hand. ” ”   Workers in Dane County are being paid $20 an hour and will work   two shifts over about 12 hours a day to get the recount done by   the deadline, said County Clerk Scott McDonell. He didn’t expect   much change in the results. ” ’   ”I think we will be very close to what was reported on election   night,” McDonell said Thursday. ’ ’   Clinton lost to  by about 22, 000   votes in Wisconsin, or less than a percentage point. ’ ’   Stein has argued, without evidence, that irregularities in the   votes in all three states suggest that there could have been   tampering with the vote, perhaps through a     highly complex cyberattack. ’ ’   ”Verifying the vote through this recount is the only way to   confirm that every vote has been counted securely and accurately   and is not compromised by machine or human error, or by tampering   or hacking,” Stein said in a statement Thursday. ’ ”   Stein’s critics, including the Wisconsin Republican Party,   contend that she is a   candidate who is merely trying   to raise her profile while raising millions of dollars. Stein has   taken in nearly $7 million for the recounts, which is about twice   as much as her longshot presidential campaign took in. ” ’   The Wisconsin recount was estimated to cost about $3. 9 million.   Stein paid $973, 250 for the requested recount   in . ’ ’ on Thursday objected to a recount   of  presidential votes, at least   delaying the planned Friday start of the recount there until next   week. ’ ’   The Board of State Canvassers will meet Friday to hear arguments.   The  Bureau of Elections said the   recount cannot proceed until two business days after the     bipartisan board resolves the objection. ’ ’ attorneys said Stein, who finished   fourth in  is not ”aggrieved” by any   alleged election fraud or mistake, that a recount could not be   finished on time and that her petition was not properly signed.   They said Stein is asking for an expensive,     recount ”on the basis of nothing more than speculation.” ’ ’   Stein countered that  ”cynical   efforts to delay the recount and create unnecessary costs for   taxpayers are shameful and outrageous.” ’ ”   In Pennsylvania, a hearing is scheduled for Monday on Stein’s   push to secure a   statewide recount, a legal   maneuver that has never been tried, according to one of the   lawyers who filed it. ” ”   Stein’s attorneys want a forensic analysis of electronic voting   machines in Pennsylvania to see if there any evidence that their   software was hacked. But counties where Green   voters   have sought a recount are refusing to do such forensic   examinations. ”