’  ’ ’   The South Carolina jury tasked with deciding the fate of a former   police officer charged with murder is at a standstill after   more than 14 hours of deliberation, prompting the judge to urge   them to reach consensus. ’ ’   Michael Slager, the North Charleston patrolman who was filmed in   2015 shooting at unarmed black motorist Walter Scott eight times   as he ran away, is facing life in prison if he is convicted of   murder. ’ ’   The jury is also considering a manslaughter charge, which carries   a maximum sentence of 30 years. ’ ”   But there is no indication a verdict will be reached anytime   soon, if it’s reached at all. At various times over the three   days of deliberation, the jury requested transcripts of testimony   from some of the 55 witnesses who spoke during the monthlong   trial. ” ’   On Thursday, Judge Clifton Newman announced the jury had written   a note asking about ”the difference between fear and passion,”   ostensibly referring to the different criteria for murder and   manslaughter. ’ ’   Newman declined to provide the jurors an answer, saying, ”This is   a matter solely for you to determine.” ’ ’   The jurors  —     —   must reach a   unanimous decision. ’ ’  ’ ’   On Friday, after jurors reported their standstill, Newman   invited them into the courtroom and warned them of the   consequences of failing to reach a verdict, which would result in   a mistrial. ’ ’   ”In that case, it does not mean that anybody wins. It just means   that at some future time, I will try this case with some other   jury sitting where you now sit,” Newman told the jurors. ’ ’   ”The same participants will come, and the same lawyers will   likely ask basically the same questions and get basically the   same answers, and we will go through this whole process again,”   he continued. ”There is no reason for me to suppose that the case   will ever be submitted to 12 more intelligent, conscientious and   competent jurors than you, or that more clearer evidence will be   produced on one side than the other.” ’ ’   ”I therefore ask that you return to your deliberations, if you   will.” ’ ”   The trial hinges on whether the jury believes Slager, who is   white, could reasonably think he was in   danger   during his interaction with Scott. Slager  after fleeing a routine traffic stop,   had wrestled Slager’s Taser away from him and lunged at the   officer. However, that account is denied by Feidin Santana, a   bystander who filmed part of the incident. ”