’  ’ ’   Sarah Palin criticized   Donald Trump on   Friday for a deal he struck with Carrier this week,   condemning it as ”crony capitalism.” ’ ’   In an    Palin   wrote that Republicans oppose the kind of government deal making   Trump and Vice   Mike Pence made with the company   to keep approximately 1, 100 jobs at an Indianapolis plant   from migrating to Mexico, joining in with a chorus of   conservatives who have said it violates free market principles. ’ ’   ”Foundational to our exceptional nation’s sacred private property   rights, a business must have freedom to locate where it wishes,”   wrote Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee. ”In a   free market, if a business makes a mistake (including a marketing   mistake that perhaps Carrier executives made) threatening to   move elsewhere claiming efficiency’s sake, then the market’s   invisible hand punishes.” ’ ’   ”Thankfully, that same hand rewards, based on good business   decisions,” she continued. ”But this   truth assumes   we’re operating on a level playing field. When government steps   in arbitrarily with individual subsidies, favoring one business   over others, it sets inconsistent, unfair, illogical precedent.” ’ ’   The deal included the state of Indiana offering Carrier $7   million in tax subsidies over 10 years to keep some of the jobs   that were planned to be exported in the state. ’ ’’ ’   Palin wrote that the ”illogical precedent” leads to special   interests manipulating markets. ’ ’   ”Republicans oppose this, remember?” she wrote. ”Instead, we   support competition on a level playing field, remember? Because   we know special interest crony capitalism is one big fail.” ’ ’   She continued, adding that the ”picking and choosing” which   companies receive ”corporate welfare” is roiled by fiscal   conservatives and is a ”hallmark of corruption” and ”socialism.” ’ ’   ”A $20 trillion   country can’t afford this sinfully   stupid practice, so vigilantly guard against its continuance, or   we’re doomed,” she said, adding, ”However well meaning,   burdensome federal government imposition is never the solution.   Never. Not in our homes, not in our schools, not in churches, not   in businesses.” ’ ’   Noting that she said you ”gotta’’ have faith the Trump team knows   all this,” she said she’’d be ”the first” to say that the concerns   are ”unfounded” once the terms of the deal are made public, if   those terms disprove her allegation of ”crony   capitalism.” Earlier in the   she also said she was   ”ecstatic” for Carrier employees. ’ ’   ”But know that fundamentally, political intrusion using a stick   or carrot to bribe or force one individual business to do what   politicians insist, versus establishing policy incentivizing our   ENTIRE ethical economic engine to roar back to life, isn’t the   answer,” she wrote, adding, ”The lines strangle competition and   really, really, dispiritingly screw with workers’ lives.” ’ ’   Palin announced her support for Trump in a lengthy speech earlier   this year, and is currently under consideration by Trump for a   cabinet position. ’