’  ’ ’     Donald Trump spoke with the president of Taiwan   by phone on Friday, in a move likely to infuriate Beijing and   hinder   relations. ’ ’   ”  Trump spoke with President Tsai   of   Taiwan, who offered her congratulations,” according to a readout   of the call released by Trump’’s transition team. ’ ’   ”During the discussion, they noted the close economic, political,   and security ties” between Taiwan and the United States, the   statement continued. ”  Trump also congratulated   President Tsai on becoming President of Taiwan earlier this   year.” ’ ’   Trump also  late Friday, saying ”The   President of Taiwan CALLED ME today to wish me congratulations on   winning the Presidency.” ’ ”   The call, first reported by the  is the first time a US president has   directly spoken with Taiwan’s leadership in more than 30 years.   The White House was not made aware of the call until after it   occurred, an administration official told Business Insider. ” ’   The US suspended formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan in 1979   after establishing a One China position  —   which states that   ”there is but one China and Taiwan is part of China”  —   in an   effort to establish diplomatic channels with Beijing. ’ ”   Beijing views Taiwan as a province of China, whereas Taiwan  —     which has its own democratically elected government  —   has a more   complicated view of the nations’ relationship. ” ’   ”There is no change to our longstanding policy on     issues,” said Ned Price, a spokesman for the White House’’s   National Security Council. ’ ’   ”We remain firmly committed to our ’’one China’’ policy based on   the three Joint Communiques and the Taiwan Relations Act. Our   fundamental interest is in peaceful and stable     relations,” he added. ’ ’     who was elected the first female president of Taiwan in   May,  over the summer that she hopes   Chinese President Xi Jinping ”can appreciate that Taiwan is a   democratic society in which the leader has to follow the will of   the people.” ’ ’   Analysts were quick to point out that the phone call will likely   infuriate Beijing. ’ ’   ”Trump has phone call w Taiwan President, 1st by US Pres or     since 1979,” geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer,   president of Eurasia Group, tweeted on Friday. ”Beijing will be   absolutely incensed.” ’ ’   ”Trump almost surely unaware of   sensitivities before   taking President’’s call,” Bremmer added. ”They don’’t yet have   Asia expertise on team.” ’ ’   Evan Medeiros, former Asia director at the White House national   security council, told the Financial Times that ”the Chinese   leadership will see this as a highly provocative action, of   historic proportions.” ’ ’   “Regardless if it was deliberate or accidental, this phone call   will fundamentally change China’s perceptions of Trump’s   strategic intentions for the negative,” he said. ”With this kind   of move, Trump is setting a foundation of enduring mistrust and   strategic competition for   relations.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump has apparently been considering building a luxury hotel   chain    the Shanghaiist reported last month. ’ ’   Henry Kissinger  —   who, as secretary of state, arranged President   Richard Nixon’’s initial trip to Beijing to establish ties in 1972    —   is . Kissinger met with Trump at Trump   Tower after the election and told reporters that Trump ”has   absolutely no baggage.” ’ ’   “He has no obligation to any particular group because he has   become a president on the basis of his own strategy and a program   he put before the American public that his competitors did not   present,” Kissinger said. ”So that is a unique situation. ” ’ ’   Still, the Washington Post’’s Glenn Kessler said news of the phone   call will likely give Kissinger ”a heart attack.” ’ ’   ”Years of careful diplomatic winks and nods up in smoke,” he   tweeted. ’ ’   Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary under George W.   Bush,    on Friday that he ”wasn’’t even allowed to refer” to the   government ”of” Taiwan when serving in the Bush administration. ’ ’   ”I could say gvt ’’on’’ Taiwan,” he noted. ”China will go nuts.” ’ ’   Sen. Chris Murphy, a Democrat from Connecticut,   that while ”it’’s Trump’’s right to shift policy, alliances,   strategy . .. what has happened in the last 48 hours is not a   shift. These are major pivots in foreign policy   any plan.   That’’s how wars start. And if they aren’’t pivots  —   just radical   temporary deviations  —   allies will walk if they have no clue what   we stand for. Just as bad.” ’ ’   He added: ”It’’s probably time we get a Secretary of State nominee   on board. Preferably w experience. Like, really really soon.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump risked damaging the US’’ relationship with India earlier   this week after telling Pakistani prime minister Nawaz Sharif in   a phone call that he would ”love” to visit the country soon. ’ ’   ”It sends a powerful message to the people of a country when the   president of the United States goes to visit,” White House press   secretary Josh Earnest said when asked about the call with   Sharif. ”That’s true whether it’s some of our closest allies, or   that’s also true if it’s a country like Pakistan, with whom our   relationship is somewhat more complicated.” ’ ’   Trump’’s communications director, Jason Miller, told reporters   Friday before reports of the phone call between Trump and     emerged that Trump and Vice   Mike Pence   are ”briefed in advanced of their calls” with foreign leaders. He   did not comment on whether the State Department has had any   involvement in briefing Trump and Pence, however. ’ ’ Brett LoGiurato contributed reporting. ’