”  Donald Trump just tapped  so it’s worth asking what kind of leadership the Pentagon is in for.” ”As it turns out, according to a number of those who served with him, the more than 3 million civilian and military personnel of DoD can expect a   history buff with a strategic mind, a senior man who is not above talking to even the most junior personnel, and a sometimes gruff, opinionated leader who isn’t ” ”Business Insider spoke with a number of people who served with Mattis, and gathered up other anecdotes, to understand what the former   general is really like when he’s in charge.” ”Here’s what we learned.” ’Source: ’ ’Source: ’ ’He was initially angry that there was another Marine either not sleeping or away from the hole they were supposed to be in, but then he realized, ”It was General Mattis. ”’ ’”He had stopped to talk to the sergeant and the lance corporal. ”’ ’Mattis was doing the same thing that Fick was doing: Checking on the junior Marines.’ ’”Nobody would’ve criticized Mattis if he had a lieutenant like me heating up his MREs and if he stayed inside to sleep on a cot,” Fick said.’ ’”You can have all the staff meetings you want, but theres no substitute for walking around and talking to people who do the work. ”’ ’Mattis patted him on the shoulder : ”You will, young man. You will. The first time these bastards run into United States Marines, I want it to be the most traumatic experience of their miserable lives. ”’ ’It was Christmas Day, and   Commandant Gen. Charles Krulak always brought cookies to officers and other troops in the D. C. area who had to stand duty on that day. When he walked in to surprise the officer on duty  —   which should have been a Major  —   he asked, ”Who’’s the officer of the day? ”’ ’The lance corporal  ”Sir, it’’s Brigadier General Mattis.” After a brief    where Krulak thought he was being misunderstood, he said, ”OK . .. who was the officer who slept in that bed last night? ”’ ’”And the Marine said, ’’Sir, Brigadier General Mattis,’’” Krulak later  Stars & Stripes.’ ’”I’m a bachelor,” Krulak recalled him saying. ”I thought why should the major miss out on the fun of having Christmas with his family, and so I took the duty for him. ”’ ’’ ’Coerr was checking into 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines as a captain, expecting only a brief talk with the top leader of the regiment.’ ’”’ ’’ ’’ ’”On your shoulders rests the hope of all mankind,”  that instructed his Marines to use good judgment and take care of innocent civilians who had suffered under Saddam Hussein’’s regime. ”Carry out your mission and keep your honor clean. Demonstrate to the world there is ’’No Better Friend, No Worse Enemy. ’’”’ ’Jack Mandaville was just a lowly Private First Class six months out of boot camp when he received it. ”I still have that letter,” he told Business Insider.’ ’ ’ ’’ ’’ ’There they encountered a group of Marines standing post, maintaining security. Shortly after, they all started taking enemy fire, and the machine gunner started unloading on insurgents, screaming all kinds of ”  words” along the way.’ ’When it was all over, the junior Marine was a bit embarrassed, thinking he might have been out of line to be screaming obscenities in front of a general. ’ ’”General Mattis just had this smile,  ” Kent said. ”He just gave him the thumbs up. ”’ ’He added: ”One thing he didn’t like was when Marines were in the dirt, and senior leadership was in a cozy little area. ”’ ”Mattis’ philosophy, according to Kent, was that if the junior Marines were in the dirt, so was everyone else at the top. ” ’”He’s a leader by example. That’s the best type of leader for any organization. He’s not the type that’s ’’do as I say, not as I do. ’’ He’’s out there doing it. ”’ ’Hafner had just come to after having surgery, and attendants told him that Mattis was coming for a visit. He told Business Insider that he was excited, but wondered if he needed a haircut first.’ ’Mattis came in, told him ”at ease,” and started talking with him, man to man. Hafner told him that he hoped Mattis would one day become Commandant of the Marine Corps, but Mattis told him that wasn’’t likely, since he said, ”I don’’t have the best ’ ”The general asked if there was anything he could do for the sergeant, and he told him he’d like his Kevlar helmet back  —   bloodied but still intact  —   which the hospital had taken away from him.” ’The next time he got out of surgery, Hafner told BI, ”There was my helmet sitting there at the foot of my bed. ”’ ’ ’ ’Source: ’ ’”When you go to General Mattis you better have your facts in line, because he probably already knows,” Kent told Business Insider, though he added that he welcomed input from others. But, ”when you leave a meeting, there is no doubt in your mind the direction of where Gen. Mattis wants to go. ”’