’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON (Reuters)   U. S. Army Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl, who is   charged with desertion for walking away from his combat post in   Afghanistan in 2009, has asked President Barack Obama for a   pardon, the White House said on Saturday. ’ ”   Obama will relinquish office on Jan. 20 to Republican     Donald Trump, who made caustic comments about the   sergeant during the presidential campaign that drew complaints   from Bergdahl’s defense team. ” ’   Trump savaged Bergdahl as ”a   traitor who should have been   executed” and criticized the prisoner swap in 2014 that won his   release. ’ ’   Bergdahl, 30, is facing a   with a potential life   sentence on charges of desertion and endangerment of U. S. troops   after he walked away from his post in Afghanistan. He was   captured by the Taliban and became a prisoner for five years. ’ ”   The White House has received Bergdahl’s pardon application, but   could not comment on pending cases per standard practice, an   official said on Saturday on condition of anonymity. ” ’’ ”   U. S. military prosecutors have said the   search for   Bergdahl after he left his post put soldiers’ lives at risk and   diverted attention from the fight against the Taliban. ” ’   Bergdahl was freed in a prisoner swap involving the release of   five Taliban leaders held by the United States. The deal drew   heavy criticism from Republicans. ’ ’   In January, Bergdahl lawyer Eugene Fidell said Trump had made   ”appalling” comments about the sergeant and might be called as a   witness in the  . ’ ”   In August, defense lawyers asked to have the charges against the   former prisoner of war dismissed, arguing comments made by Senate   Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain violated his due   process rights. The filing quoted McCain as saying the committee   would hold a hearing if Bergdahl received no punishment and that   U. S. soldiers’ lives were put in danger by having to look for   him. ” ’   Now that Trump is   a fair military trial will be   impossible, Fidell told The New York Times. ’ ’   ”I have grave concerns as to whether Sergeant Bergdahl can   receive a fair trial given the beating he has taken over many   months from Mr. Trump, who will be commander in chief, as well as   Senator McCain’s call for a hearing in case Sergeant Bergdahl is   not punished,” Fidell said. ”It is really most unfair.” ’ ’   (Reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Alistair Bell) ’