’  ’ ’   The rise of   old Charlie Shrem was swift. So was his   fall.   ’ ’   The   computer geek turned divisive digital   currency entrepreneur won notoriety as the founder   of BitInstant. The firm took off, attracting investors like   the  and helping popularize bitcoin.  ’ ’   Then, his whole world came crashing down. He was charged with   operating an unlicensed money transmitting business. He pled   guilty, and was given prison time.  ’ ’   He had ”knowingly transmitted money intended to facilitate   criminal activity ’ ’  ’ ’       ’ ’   Raised in a deeply religious orthodox Jewish household, Shrem   describes himself as an ”outcast” at Yeshiva high school. ”I just   loved computers,” he said in the podcast. ”I would hang out in   the internet chat rooms and all of the places where all socially   awkward people hang out.”  ’ ’   Shrem first heard about the concept of Bitcoin from a friend   in an internet forum he was a part of.  ”There was no   website or anything,” he said in the podcast. ”Only a white   paper,” referring to the research paper released under the   pseudonym Satoshi Nakimoto that unveiled the concept.  ’ ’ Shrem was immediately interested and   purchased a few thousand bitcoin   at the time worth very   little.  ’ ’  ’ ’   He caught the entrepreneurial bug early,   founding    ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”I started drinking too much,” he said. ”I invested in my   friend’’s nightclub. In fact, I lived upstairs in the nightclub.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’JFK   airport that he was confronted by a dozen law enforcement   officials, a joint task force of the FBI, IRS, DEA and other   officials, he said in the podcast.  ’ ’   Shrem had knowingly ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Digitizing the Prison Economy ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Every inmate can only buy 14 mackerels per week, said Shrem, so   there is a certain number in circulation in the prison. Also, not   all mackerels are created equal. The fish expire after about 3   years, after which their value depreciates. Expired mackerels,   referred to as ”money macks,” retain 75% of the value of the   ”eating macks,” or   fish, explained Shrem. There were   currency exchanges between the two, and everything had two prices   in the prison.  ’ ’  ’ ’   One day, a large number of mackerels were confiscated by prison   guards and left out for any prisoner to take. Overnight, the   guards essentially introduced hyperinflation, said Shrem, and   flooded the market. They lost all of their value.  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   ’ ’   ’ ”In August, hackers stole $72 million   worth of bitcoin from accounts at the Hong Kong cryptocurrency   exchange Bitfinex. And in June, hackers stole $55 million worth   of ether, a bitcoin rival. The nonprofit that runs ether,   Ethereum Foundation, just rolled back the chain. It’s as if the   hack never took place, and business returned to normal. But that   worries purists like Shrem.  ” ’   ’ ’   ”I used to be a bitcoin maximalist, thinking bitcoin is the one   and only blockchain,” he said to Wall & Broadcast. ”Now I   believe that alternate chains can and do exist.”  ’