’  ’ ”   On October 18, Sam Wang thought it was over. So much so that he   promised  —   on Twitter, for the world to see  —   that he’d eat a bug   if Donald Trump earned more than 240 electoral votes. ” ’   On November 12, he was eating a bug . ’ ”   Wang, a top election forecaster and professor at Princeton   University, had given Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton a    of winning in the days   leading up to the election. Of course, it didn’t quite end up   that way. ” ’   ”To state the obvious, this is not random sampling error because   it was shared across all pollsters in the same direction. This is   some kind of large systematic error, far larger than typically   occurs in a presidential election year,” Wang said. ’ ”   For the   election cycle, the polling and   prognostication industry is reckoning with how it got it wrong  —     and why we’re talking about a   Donald Trump when   virtually all available data pointed to   Hillary   Clinton. ” ”   National polls weren’t too far off from the eventual result  —     after all, Clinton is on her way to a near   victory in the   popular vote. ” ”   But polls in key battleground states like Michigan, Wisconsin,   and Pennsylvania  —   states Republicans hadn’t won at the   presidential level since the 1980s  —   belied the state of the   race. Clinton had leads so healthy in Wisconsin, for   instance, that she entered Election Day with a 6.  average   advantage in the state. ” ’   She lost there by a point. She lost the trio of states. And   she lost the presidency. ’ ’   ”Polls might not be capable of predicting elections,” Patrick   Murray, the head of Monmouth University’’s polling institute, told   Business Insider. ’ ”   Murray’s final Pennsylvania poll showed Clinton with a     lead with a 4. 9 percentage point margin of error, which still was   not big enough to capture the margin  —   1. 2 points  —   by which   Trump would win the state. ” ’   ”It’’s an imprecise science,” he said. ”It’’s a science with a   margin.” ’ ’   With a level of distrust in statistics and polling, heightened by   Trump’’s months of railing against ”dishonest” polls and media   outlets, Murray said the result of the election only adds to how   ”very hard” it is ”to fight against that.” ’ ’   ”Do we ever win back the public trust, or in fact, should you   even try?” he said. ”What did we miss? We know it’’s systematic.   Can we correct for it?” ’ ’   But Murray already had developed a theory for what happened:   ”  among a major core of Trump voters.” ’ ”   Murray’s theory looked as if it had some legs. ” ”   For instance, in Pennsylvania and Michigan, Clinton’s total   percentage of the final vote fell within 2 points of what had   been predicted for her in the polling average. In Wisconsin,   Clinton wound up with a near   level of support as the   polls had forecast, outperforming the polling average by 0. 1   points. ” ”   But Trump outperformed his polling average by 4. 5 points in   Pennsylvania, 5. 6 points in Michigan, and an   7. 6   points in Wisconsin. Underperformances by Libertarian nominee   Gary Johnson and Green Party nominee Jill Stein may have   contributed to that result, but it didn’t account   for such a large discrepancy. ” ’   ”It’’s not that they lied to pollsters, but they didn’’t even pick   up the phone,” Murray said. ’ ’   In his final Pennsylvania poll, Murray said, he was accurate   around the Philadelphia metro area through Scranton and in the   Pittsburgh metro area. But he missed the central, rural part of   the state by 20 points: He had polled a   Trump lead while   Trump ended up winning that area by 30 points. ’ ’   ”That’’s probably the problem across all swing states, and that’’s   the first state that I looked at because it’’s the one I did most   recently,” he said. ”We were getting metro areas correct, but in   the   areas, and this will be true in Wisconsin and   Michigan as well, that, a certain type of Trump voter seemed more   [unwilling] to talk to pollsters. And, it plays into this whole     sense.” ’ ’   ”Just a few points off . .. is what will cause the entire   narrative to be off,” he continued. ”This wasn’’t just, ’’You got   this state poll wrong or this poll didn’’t go this way. ’’ This was   a systematic miss of all the polls in the same direction. And I’’m   going to guess that on metro areas it was spot on. ’ ’   ”We were missing something in rural areas.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Murray said it ”didn’’t matter” what methodology was being used to   conduct the poll, whether it was random dialing, live telephone,   robocalls, or online polling. ’ ’   ”The people who don’’t talk to us are significantly different than   the people that do talk to us that they can throw a poll off by 4   or 5 points,” he said. ”And that is a serious methodological   issue. Because you can’’t wiggle your way out of it.” ’ ’   ”If this is true, it will be a real challenge for the polling   industry to figure out how do we account for what seems to be an     segment of the population who won’’t talk to   pollsters,” he continued. ”And if politically, they skew one way   or another, then we’’re really missing them.” ’ ’   Tom Jensen, the director of the   firm Public   Policy Polling, pinned some of the blame on the response   rate for telephone polling. He told Business Insider there’’s ”no   doubt that it makes life harder” when response rates are lower   than 5% and that weighing answers ”to try an make up for the   people we’’re missing” only goes ”so far.” ’ ’   Speaking specifically on Michigan, a state where Jensen’’s final   poll showed Clinton with a   lead, the pollster said it   showed how ”the dynamics” of polling individual states can shift   from cycle to cycle. ’ ’   ”In 2012 it was one of the states where Democrats were   underestimated the most,” he said. ”This year it was one of the   states where they were overestimated the most.” ’ ”   Two things happened in the state, he believes:   First, pollsters underestimated the drop in     turnout around Detroit from President Obama’s 2008 and 2012   election. Second, the pool of white voters interviewed wasn’t   quite as Republican as the overall white electorate. ” ”   In Wayne County, home of Detroit,  than Obama’s margin over Romney in 2012. That was   more than enough to give Trump a thin advantage. ” ’   ”I think across the board it’’s clear that pollsters had trouble   sufficiently measuring the extent to which rural white voters   were going to turn out and pretty universally support   Republicans,” he said. ’ ’   ”So there aren’’t easy answers,” he continued. ”It’’s easier to   identity the what of went wrong with polls than the why.” ’ ’   Jensen said he repeated to anyone who’’d ask throughout the   general election that Clinton was up by 3 or 4 points, but   that it was not ”that unusual” for polls to be off by that   amount. ’ ’   ”And if they’’re all off by that in the same direction Trump could   win,” he said. ”Unfortunately, the warning came to fruition this   time.” ’ ’   Steve Mitchell, whose Fox   poll in Michigan found   Clinton with an identical   lead heading into Election   Day, chalked up his miss to a very specific reason: Human error. ’ ’   Mitchell was one of a number of pollsters who had already   reckoned with a surprise in the Wolverine State earlier in the   cycle. He had  in March that   he’’d ”only been wrong like this twice in my life” when   discussing how Michigan pollsters, including himself, missed Sen.   Bernie Sanders of Vermont’’s shocking victory in the state’’s   Democratic primary. ’ ’   In the   matchup, Mitchell said he changed his   methodology right before his final poll, placing a greater weight   on younger voters.  ’ ’   ”As a result of that, I just misweighted the data and should have   had it much closer,” he told Business Insider. ”It was a mistake   that I made. I’’m a pollster. I take full responsibility for the   mistakes that I made. We had the trend, we had the trend before   anybody else. I have a feeling if we continued to do it the same   way we had, or had I weighted it in the same way I had weighted   it prior to that, we would’’ve had it.” ’ ’   To Wang, who runs the  the misses in   Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan were ”similar” to   results across the nation. ’ ’   He found the median   presidential polling error to be   4 percentage points. And he saw close Senate races   had polls that were off, too, favoring Democrats by a median   of 6 percentage points. ’ ’   ”What happened? Don’’t know yet. With a close race, it’’s easy to   pin the error on any number of causes. But all of those causes   add up to a single number  —   the final result,” he said. ’ ’   Of course, if just 1% of Trump voters voted for Clinton in the   three highlighted states, ”we would be having a very different   conversation,” he added. ’ ’   Wang said a number of steps must be taken to attempt correction   of the miss, including reviewing if pollsters adequately captured      demographics  —   such as   white voters    —   and as beginning to understand how to capture the leanings of   undecided voters. ’ ’   ”Based on cognitive science, these voters might be mentally   committed to a choice  —   they just aren’’t able to verbalize it,”   he said. ”We humans are like this in all kinds of domains, from   what to have for lunch to who to marry. Seems like indirect   approaches like social media and web search data might be a new   way to predict voter behavior.” ’ ’   When looking at the three ”Rust Belt” states, Scott Tranter told   Business Insider it’’s hard to know whether the polling there   ”really missed” or if there wasn’’t enough polling to catch a   ”fast moving” trend at the end. ’ ”   Tranter is the  that   did work for Sen. Marco Rubio’s 2016 presidential campaign   and Wisconsin Sen. Ron Johnson’s senatorial campaign  —   the latter   of which ended in an upset win nearly as unexpected as   Trump’s. ” ’   In Pennsylvania, for example, Clinton held a lead of nearly 9   points in the RealClearPolitics average with less than a   month to go until the election, only to watch the lead get   cut all the way down to less than 2 points by Election Day. ’ ”   Prediction models, which were universal in forecasting the race   for Clinton, didn’t account for something simple that would have   likely given Trump a much greater chance, Tranter said. ” ’  ’ ”   Each model had given individual odds for Trump to win the three   states. Combined, it seemed highly unlikely that he could pull   off upsets in all three. But what the numbers didn’t account for,   Tranter said, was that if Trump won just one of the three states,   it was much more likely that he would win the other two. ” ’   This should have, in turn, increased his odds of being able to   pull off the sweep. ’ ’   ”Something that may have not been taken into account in public   models is that if one state goes Trump it adjusts the probability   that another state goes Trump,” he said. ”I wouldn’’t be surprised   to find some correlation between Wisconsin going Trump thus   increasing the odds Pennsylvania goes Trump.” ’ ’   ”Correlation is not causation, but it can be explanatory and   should be accounted for,” he added. ’ ’   Polling ”is not dead,” says Matt  of   Cambridge Analytica, the analytics team that worked with Trump’’s   campaign and the Republican National Committee during the   presidential race. ’ ’   ”People who say polling is dead are foolish,” he said. ”Polling   is not dead, it’s necessary for what we do. We need it for   research. It’s the way polling is conducted that has to be   changed. What we did goes to show that polling needs to be   combined with data science to be successful.” ’ ’ said pollsters ”making guesses on old   intuitions and old methodologies isn’’t going to work anymore.” ’ ’   ”Understanding who you are polling, understanding what the map   looks like, what the electorate looks like is so important, and   that’s why so much of the public polling was off,” he continued.   ”So proper investment in doing more polling but coupling that   with a data science program is really going to be the future.” ’ ’   Problems at the state level this time around were no shock to   . He said the results are a direct consequence   of ”the  ” polling methods. ’ ’   ”What happened is you’’ve got a lot of the usual suspects like a   lot of the universities, like Quinnipiac and others, that do a   lot of state polling, and then you’’ve got the Wall Street   Journal,   poll,” he said. ”All of those polls usually   have one thing in common  —   they’’re using a     methodology.” ’ ’   Morning Consult had conducted a study in December   2015 that produced evidence for a theory of ”shy” Trump   voters who experience social desirability bias during telephone   interviews  —   that is, they .   Ramlet felt that played out in the general election. ’ ’   ”I think that played into greater degree of effect in Midwestern   states where, generally speaking, pretty educated populace, above   average income nationally,” he said. ”And what we’’re seeing is   there is probably some degree of that desirability issue combined   with some outdated methodology. I don’’t think we’’re shocked that   the state polls got it wildly wrong, just surprised at the   widespread degree that they got it wrong, giving a false sense to   the prognosticators.” ’ ’   ”The biggest failure of the larger polling community,” he said,   ”was that they were implying that this race was not as close as   it was.” ’ ’ Maxwell Tani contributed to this report. ’