’  ’ ”   Italy’s prime minister Matteo Renzi announced his resignation in   Rome shortly after midnight on Monday, after losing   a critical referendum battle on which he staked his   political career. ” ’   ”Italy has chosen. Now it’’s up to those who won to make   proposals,” Renzi said during a press conference at Palazzo   Chigi, the prime minster’’s residence, in Rome. ”I take all   responsibility for the defeat.” ’ ’   Italians voted Sunday on whether to significantly cut the   number of senators in Italy’’s government, a move Renzi   argued would significantly cut bureaucracy in Italy  —   an obscure   debate were not for Renzi’’s declaration earlier this year that he   would resign if ”Yes” did not win. ’ ’   ”No” won by a large margin, with results showing 60% % in its   favor as of this publication. ’ ’ ’ ’   The result is seen as a rejection of Renzi and his leadership,   and leaves an opening for Beppe Grillo and his increasingly   powerful populist Five Star Movement to fill the void. ’ ’   ”I have lost,” Renzi said. ”I believe in democracy. I am not   looking the other way.” ’ ’   ”My government experience ends here,” he added. ’ ’   Renzi is leaving after just     years in office. The      former mayor of Florence was seen by his supporters   as a breath of fresh air, and his vow to eradicate   crippling bureaucracy earned him the nickname   ”Demolition Man’’ from his critics. ’ ”   Instead, Renzi’s reforms saw little impact, and the Five Star   Movement began tapping into the wave of nationalist populism   spreading through the West  . ” ’   When it became clear around midnight in Italy that ”No” won a   decisive victory, . The currency   was down by 0. 9% at 1. 0573 against the dollar as of   7:19 p. m. ET. It fell earlier as low as 1. 0506 against   the dollar, the lowest level since . ’ ”   Business Insider Italia reporter Giuliano Balestreri weighed in   after Renzi’s speech: ” ’ ’ ’   Renzi will meet with Italian President Sergio Mattarella Monday   morning to formally resign his title. Italian media are   floating economic minister Pier Carlo Padoan and Senate   chairman Pietro Grasso as leading candidates to replace   Renzi. ’