’  ’ ’   The US Army Corps of Engineers has turned down a permit for a   controversial pipeline project running through North Dakota, in a   victory for Native Americans and climate activists who have   protested against the project for several months, according to a   statement released on Sunday. ’ ’   The   Dakota Access Pipeline, owned by     Energy Transfer Partners LP, had been complete except for a   segment planned to run under Lake Oahe, a reservoir formed by a   dam on the Missouri River. ’ ’   ”The Army will not grant an easement to cross Lake Oahe at the   proposed location based on the current record,” a statement from   the US Army said. ’ ’   Assistant Secretary of the Army   Darcy   added : ”Although we have had continuing   discussion and exchanges of new information with the Standing   Rock Sioux and Dakota Access, it’’s clear that there’’s more work   to do.” ’ ’   The Standing Rock Sioux tribe, along with climate activists, have   been protesting the $3. 8 billion project, saying it could   contaminate the water supply and damage sacred tribal lands. The   protest has garnered support from thousands who have flocked to   North Dakota to protest against the completion of the line. ’ ’   Protest organizers had for months argued that crossing the   Missouri River adjacent to the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation   presented a danger to their water source. Protests grew over the   months, with hundreds of veterans flocking to the camp in recent   days to stand against what they say are aggressive tactics from   law enforcement. ’ ’   The department of the Army announced in November it was   delaying the decision to grant the easement for the pipeline   after the protests gained national attention. ’ ’  ’ ’   In a statement,  ’ ’   ”We wholeheartedly support the decision of the administration and   commend with the utmost gratitude the courage it took on the part   of President Obama, the Army Corps, the Department of Justice and   the Department of the Interior to take steps to correct the   course of history and to do the right thing,” the statement read. ’ ’   ”The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and all of Indian Country will be   forever grateful to the Obama Administration for this historic   decision,” it continued. ’