’  ’ ’   Underfunded government pensions to the tune of $1. 3 trillion,   with a gap that just can’t be filled, is the ticking time bomb   facing the US economy, which faces dramatic cuts in public   services and potentially riots reminiscent of Athens six years   ago. ’ ’   Danielle DiMartino Booth is the tough talking former Federal   Reserve advisor and President of Money Strong, with an insider’s   perspective on finance. As she picks apart the danger signs with   the US on the precipice of recession, it’s the impending pensions   crisis that’s really keeping her awake at night. ’ ’   With so few people privy to what little recovery we’ve had and   given how stretched pensions are, checks are going to have to be   written from Washington sooner than you think, DiMartino Booth   told  in   an interview. ’ ”   “The Baby Boomers are no longer an actuarial theory,” she said.   “They’re a reality. The checks are being written. ” ” ’   The $1. 3 trillion pensions deficit just takes into account state   and municipal obligations and with promised returns of 8% and   funds compounding at 3% for decades it will take nothing short of   an economic miracle to recover. “The average state pension in the   last ’ ”   fiscal year returned something south of 1%. You cannot fill that   gap with a bulldozer, impossible,” DiMartino Booth said. “Anyone   who knows their compounding tables knows you don’t make that up.   You don’t get that back unless you get some miracle. ” ” ”   The last time we saw significant market weakness, the baby   boomers pretty much accepted that they would be retiring at 70   instead of 65, she added. “Well, guess what? They’re turning 71.   And the physiological decision to stay in the workforce won’t   work for much longer. And that means that these pensions are   going to come under tremendous amounts of pressure. ” ”   “And the idea that we can escape what’s to come, given   demographically what we’re staring at is naive at best. And it’s   reckless at worst,” DiMartino Booth said. “And when you throw   private equity and all of the dry powder that they have    that   they’re sitting on    still waiting to deploy on pensions’   behalf, at really egregious valuations, yeah, it’s hard to sleep   at night. ” ” ’   Pension fund underfunding is Ground Zero ’ ’   The interview with Real Vision was held in Dallas, which   DiMartino Booth said is Ground Zero for the pensions crisis,   where returns for the $2. 27 billion Police and Fire Pension   System have suffered due to risky investments in real estate made   over a decade ago. ’ ”   Huge withdrawals are now taking place, amid concerns over the   future viability of the pension scheme, which commentators say   could be flat broke in a little over ten years. “We’re seeing   this surge of people trying to retire early and take the money.   Because they see it’s not going to be there. And if that dynamic   and that belief    forget all the other problems,”   DiMartino Booth said. “The pension fund    underfunding is Ground   Zero. ” ” ’   The gravity of the situation with the lack of returns is   magnified by the fact that the underperformance has been going on   for between ten and 15 years. Calpers, the California Public   Employees’ Retirement System is a case in point, amid reports   that it returned just 0. 6% last year compared with its long term   target of 7. 5%. ’ ’   With the legal language tightly written on pensions like this   across the country, such that states and municipalities won’t be   able to break free of their obligations, DiMartino Booth thinks   the endgame will evoke memories of the Winter of Discontent in   London in 1979 and more recently the riots in Athens as key   public services are cut. ’ ”   “This is where the smile comes off my face. We are an angry   country. We’re an angry world. The wealth effect is dead. The   inequality divide is unlike anything we’ve seen since the years   that preceded the Great Depression,” she told Real Vision TV. ” ’  ’ ”   “Where’s the money going to come from? And the answer is, for   now, they cut services. I’ve just written about the Winter of   Discontent and the rubbish piled up in central London streets in   1979, as Thatcher was coming in. I worry about the ambulance not   getting there in time. I worry about firefighters being cut to   the bone and policemen. ” ” ’   The seriousness of the issue might not have hit home yet in   Denver, where the state budget for tulips had to be cut recently   to top up the pension fund, she said, but what happens when you   are not talking about flowers anymore and when you are talking   about a very populous state like Illinois? ’ ”   “If the actuaries are going to force the checks to be written and   reduce the rate of returned assumptions to anything remotely   related to reality, then we won’t be laughing anymore looking in   the rear view mirror at the riots in the streets of Athens a few   years back,” DiMartino Booth warned. ” ’  is   the only financial    demand service where the world’s   greatest investors, economists and strategists dive deep into   their investment framework and give you actionable trade ideas.   . ’