’  ’ ”   George Stephanopoulos grilled Vice   Mike Pence on   Sunday over   Donald Trump’s . ” ’   In an interview on ”This Week,” the ABC anchor brought   up Trump’’s baseless claim, asking Pence if it   ”was responsible for a   to make false   statements like that?” ’ ”   Pence repeatedly attempted to support Trump by citing a   Pew Research study which found that voter registration systems   needed to be updated. But Stephanopoulos countered by   saying the study’s author . ” ’   ”What is historic here is that our   won 30 to 50   states. He won more counties than any candidate on our side since   Ronald Reagan,” Pence said. ’ ’   He added: ”And the fact that some partisans, who are frustrated   with the outcome of the election and disappointed with the   outcome of the election, are pointing to the popular vote, I can   assure you, if this had been about the popular vote, Donald Trump   and I have been campaigning a whole lot more in Illinois and   California and New York.” ’ ’   Stephanopoulos pushed back, saying he was ”not questioning”   Trump’’s victory but asking if Pence believes ”it’’s [Trump’’s]   right to make false statements.” ’ ’   ”It’’s his right to express his opinion as   of the   United States,” Pence said. ”I think one of the things that’’s   refreshing about our   and one of the reasons why I   think he made such an incredible connection with people all   across this country is because he tells you what’’s on his mind.” ’ ’   ”But why is it refreshing to make false statements?”   Stephanopoulos asked. ’ ’   ”I don’’t know that that is a false statement, George, and neither   do you,” Pence said. ’ ’   ” I know there’’s no evidence for it,” Stephanopoulos replied. ’ ”   Pence wasn’t the only top official from the incoming Trump   administration pressed about the  ’s voter fraud   claims. ” ’   Appearing on ”Face The Nation,” incoming White House chief   of staff Reince Priebus said ”it’’s possible” millions of people   voted illegally, adding that estimates of false votes are ”all   over the map.” ’ ’   Priebus characterized Trump’’s claims as evidence that the     was ”challenging conventional thought.” ’ ’   ”I think he’’s done a great job. I think the president elect is   someone who has pushed the envelope and caused people to think in   this country, is not taking conventional thought on every single   issue,” Priebus said. ’ ’ ’ ’Mike Pence defends Trump’’s unsubstantiated claim of ”millions” of illegal votes: ”His right to express his opinion”  ’