’  ’ ”   President Barack Obama gave an impassioned speech to   troops at  defending his   administration’s counterterrorism and   strategy   in the final planned   speech of his   presidency. ” ”   Broadly, Obama argued that he saved American lives by not   sending them into harm’s way without a clear strategy and   achievable goal  —   and that he did it while remaining within   the bounds of his presidential power. ” ’   He attempted to protect a   legacy that came under   consistent fire from   Donald Trump on the campaign   trail, touting what he said were successes against terror   groups.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Obama outlined how, over the past eight years, the US has   ”all of the   burden onto American ground troops.” ’ ”   Delivering the speech at Obama’s heavy reliance on a  to carry out his counterterrorism goals over the   years  —   including the campaign against the Islamic State group. ” ’   ”The campaign against ISIL has been relentless, sustainable, and   multilateral,” Obama said, using an alternative name for the   terror organization. ”We built an international coalition of   nearly 70 nations, surged our intelligence resources to   better understand the enemy, and then took the fight to ISIL   in Iraq and Syria.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Obama said that more than 16, 000 airstrikes by the       coalition have lost ISIL ”more than half of its   territory,” as a crackdown on online propaganda   andas limited the terror   group’’s reach and manpower.  ’ ’   Still, Obama warned, the fight is far from over. The emergence of   ISIS was the result of ”a breakdown of order that had been   building for decades, which unleashed forces that will take   a generation to solve.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Obama also criticized Congress for not voting on a new   authorization of military force, or AUMF, to attack ISIS. Obama   has relied on the 2001 authorization for the use of   military force against Al Qaeda and ”associated forces” to   justify the US’’ military campaign against ISIS. ’ ’   ”Democracies should not operate in a state of permanently   authorized war,” he said. ”Congress needs to fulfill   constitutional duty and authorize use of force against threats we   face today. That’’s how democracies are supposed to work.” ’ ’   He went on to rebuke decisions inspired by ”fear,” such as the   use of torture and religious discrimination, including some   apparent veiled shots at Trump. ’ ’I must protect our people, but I also swore an oath   to defend our Constitution,” Obama said. ”Staying true to our   tradition as a nation of laws, we prohibited torture everywhere,   including tactics like waterboarding. And no one has ever told me   that doing so has prevented us from obtaining good intelligence.” ’ ’   ”When we do capture terrorists, our interrogation teams have   obtained valuable information without operating outside the law,”   he added, saying ”we have to fight terrorists in a way that   doesn’t create more terrorists” and calling for the closure of   the Guantanamo Bay detention facility. ’ ’ through tactics like waterboarding. ’ ’   ”The US was founded so people could practice their religious as   they choose,” Obama continued, appearing to take aim at   Trump’’s proposal to bar Muslims from countries   with high levels of terrorist activity from entering the US. ’ ’   ”We have bled, struggled, sacrificed, against discrimination and   arbitrary rule,” Obama said. e have a   right to live in a society where we can criticize a president   without threat of retribution. . ..  ’