’’ ’ the election, Shannon Monnat, a rural sociologist and demographer at Pennsylvania State University, has dug into the voting data to try to figure out why Trump ”overperformed” in certain counties.’ ’Through her research,  Monday, Monnat found a possible answer: Counties that voted more heavily for Trump than expected ’ ”Monnat wasn’t surprised by the correlation.” ’”I expected to see it because when you think about the underlying factors that lead to overdose or suicide, it’’s depression, despair, distress, and anxiety,” she told Business Insider in November. ”That was the message that Trump was appealing to. ”’ ”That wasn’t the only correlation Monnat found. Here’s what else she saw:” ”Trump’s overperformance was more pronounced in the industrial Midwest  —   which consists of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin  —   and New England. ” ’In the industrial Midwest, Trump did better than Romney by an average of 16. 7 percentage points, compared with only 8. 1 points in counties with the lowest mortality rates, according to Monnat.’ ’Meanwhile, in New England, Trump did worse than Romney by 3. 1 points in the counties with the lowest mortality rates, compared to doing better by nearly 10 points in the counties with the highest mortality rates. ’ ’Many of those counties with high     and   mortality rates have been hard hit by the opioid crisis in recent years. Ohio, Pennsylvania, Indiana, New Hampshire, and are considered to be some of the states . ’ ’A major correlation Monnat discovered was that counties ranked highly on her ”economic distress index” had a high number of   people that voted more heavily for Trump than Romney in 2012. ’ ’The index, which Monnat has used in her research for years, combines the percentages of people who are in poverty, unemployed, disabled, in   families, living on public assistance, or living without health insurance.’ ’Though Monnat noted she expected this correlation in the industrial Midwest, which has been hard hit by globalization and losses in manufacturing jobs, the correlation was strong in New England, as well.’ ’ ’ ’’ ’’ ’In many of the counties where Trump did the best, economic precarity has been building and social and family networks have been breaking down for several decades. ”’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’’ ’’ ’’ ’ ’ ’ ’