’  ’ ’   Prominent neoconservative columnist Robert Kagan testified before   Congress on Tuesday about the biggest threats facing the US  —     which he says are Russia and China. ’ ’   Kagan warned in his prepared testimony that ”the era of     rivalries has returned.” ’ ’   ”Only these two great powers [Russia and China] have the capacity   to upend the world order which has long provided for Americans’’   security and ” Kagan told the Senate Armed Services   Committee. ’ ’   ”The unmistakable hegemonic ambitions of China and Russia   threaten the stability and security of the world’’s two most   important regions, East Asia and Europe. These regions are vital   to the United States both economically and strategically.” ’ ’   He warned against isolationist foreign policy, which     Donald Trump seemed to champion during the   campaign season. Kagan has been an outspoken critic of Trump  —     he  in May about how Trump could   bring fascism to America. ’ ’’ ’   ”These past   years have . .. provided us a clear formula for   success, a formula inherited from those early years after World   War II,” Kagan said. ’ ’   ”By building and maintaining strong alliances with democratic   nations and by supporting an open global economy that allows   those nations to prosper, and which lifts billions of others in   developing nations out of poverty, the United States can best   protect its own security and the   of its own people.” ’ ”   Trump said during the campaign that he thinks the NATO alliance   is obsolete and suggested that if allies didn’t contribute more   to their own defense, the US would not fulfill its obligations to   defend them in the event of an attack or invasion. ” ’   ”The perceived weakness and withdrawal of the United States as a   result of the present administration’’s policies and rhetoric has   unfortunately been greatly exacerbated by the comments of the     and his proxies during this year’’s campaign,”   Kagan said. ’ ’   ”Suggestions that the United States might not come to the defense   of NATO allies if attacked by Russia . .. that it is a ’’real   problem’’ that the United States has to come to Japan’’s defense if   it is attacked, and in general that the United States should   fulfill its security commitments to other nations only if it   makes economic sense  —   all these have only increased doubts about   America’’s reliability as an ally and partner. They have given the   clear impression to both friends and potential adversaries that   the United States is turning inward, abjuring responsibility for   global security, and effectively ceding hegemonic dominance of   Europe and East Asia to Russia and China.” ’ ’   Kagan stressed the importance of alliances. ’ ’   ”Those bonds, together with a strong US military and strong US   economy, prevailed in the Cold War, convinced Soviet leaders to   concede peacefully, and established this extraordinary period in   the history of international relations,” Kagan said. ”It has not   been perfect, because perfection in human affairs is not   possible. But by any reasonable standard, this formula has been   successful  —   and successful for the American people.” ’ ’   He also warned the Senate committee about what could   happen if the US were to weaken its ties to its allies. ’ ’   ”In the past these   competitions have led invariably   to   wars,” Kagan said. ”Managing these rivalries,   avoiding war, and doing so without abandoning the liberal world   order in the misguided belief that we will be spared when it   collapses, is the greatest challenge we face today and in the   years and decades to come.” ’ ”   Kagan’s testimony comes at a time when populist movements are   rising across Europe and anxiety about globalization and   immigration is rising. ” ’   At the same time, Russia and China appear to be getting more   aggressive on the world stage. ’ ’   ”Both seek to redress what they regard as an unfair distribution   of power, influence, and honor in the   postwar global   order,” Kagan testified. ’ ’   ”Being autocracies, both feel threatened by the dominant   democratic powers in the international system and by the   democracies on their borders. Both regard the United States as   the principal obstacle to their ambitions, and therefore both   seek to weaken the   international security order   which stands in the way of their achieving what they regard as   their rightful destinies.” ’ ’   A weakened NATO could be especially dangerous when it comes to   Russia, which has been expanding its influence in former Soviet   countries. Kagan noted that Russia ”has invaded two neighboring   states  —   Georgia in 2008 and Ukraine in 2014  —   and in both cases   has hived off significant portions of those two nations’’   sovereign territory.” ’ ’   China, on the other hand, ”has until now been the more careful   and cautious, seeking influence primarily through its great   economic clout in the region and globally, and using its growing   military power chiefly as a source of deterrence and   intimidation,” Kagan said. But its military expansion in the   South China Sea indicates that ”China’’s willingness to use force   cannot be ruled out in the future.” ’