’  ’ ”   If the Democrats choose to oppose the nomination of Gen. James   Mattis for Defense Secretary, it’s probably not going to go well   for them  —   regardless of the final outcome. ” ”   The nomination of the retired Marine general has put Democrats in   a bit of a pickle: Since he hasn’t been out of uniform for the   statutorily required seven years, he requires a waiver from   Congress  —   giving Democrats an opening to oppose a   Trump nominee. ” ’   But in the case of this nominee, he is more than qualified   for the position, having served 44 years in the Marine Corps,   where he last retired as the head of the military’’s Central   Command in Tampa, Florida. Even Democratic Rep. Ruben Gallego of   Arizona, a Marine veteran who said he would oppose a waiver,    Mattis ”exceptionally qualified.” ’ ’   Democrats can try to hold up the nomination of Mattis and fight   against a waiver. As Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York has   said, her position is based on maintaining civilian control of   the military as a ”fundamental principle of American   democracy.”  ’ ’   The principle  by a 1947 law that   requires a military officer to be off active duty for 10   years before leading the Department of Defense. It was   amended to seven years in 2008. Mattis, having retired in   2013, would be just more three years shy of that limit   if confirmed after Trump takes office. ’ ”   Interestingly, this wouldn’t even be an issue if Trump nominated   another reported candidate, retired Army Gen. Jack Keane  —   an   officer who retired in 2003. He said he  for family reasons. In the case of Keane, he   would have easily had the votes from a     Congress, and a former military officer would be leading the   department. ” ”   But some Democrats don’t view Mattis as civilian enough    —   as if three more years of him serving as a scholar in   residence at places like Dartmouth and Stanford or contributing   on corporate boards has not given him enough experience outside   of uniform.  ” ”   Mattis’ qualifications should not be questioned. If confirmed as   Defense Secretary,  would instantly boost   morale. His time served at Central Command and Joint Forces   Command give him the bona fides to be able to lead a large   organization with many different services and civilian workers. ” ”   And he would serve as an important check on Trump  —   and his    national security adviser, Lt. Gen.   Michael Flynn  —   on everything from  to sending US forces into harm’s way. ” ’  ’ ”   That’s especially true since Mattis, now 66, has taken to the   lecture circuit in recent years and has repeatedly stressed the   importance of a commander in chief giving the military a   clear political end state  —   a policy desperately needed when the   US still remains in what have been . ” ’   ”Secretary of Defense Mattis will never commit anyone into harm’’s   way without the national interests at stake and a plan to win,”   Nate Fick, a former Marine captain who twice served under Mattis   in Afghanistan and Iraq, told Business Insider. ”I think that   that’s welcome.” ’ ”   Let’s just say Democrats decide to go nuclear against the Mattis   appointment, and somehow he ends up as Defense Secretary anyway. ” ”   Republicans would have plenty of ammunition to criticize   their counterparts, especially considering their opposition   stems from an arbitrary standard of three years. Though Mattis   has offered some colorful, and  over the years, his military   service record is exemplary. His leadership ability isn’t in   question. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   So at the end of the day, the only fight Democrats have against   him is a 1947 law they know can easily be waived. ’ ”   From there, they’d be starting off a new president’s   term having been beaten back from this opposition, when they   would have been better served opposing some of Trump’s more   controversial picks, such as Ben Carson, his nominee to be   Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, or Attorney     Jeff Sessions. ” ”   Here’s where Democrats really need to decide on what is   important. Is it important to maintain a stringent view that   Mattis cannot get a waiver? Because if that’s the course of   action, Trump’s next step could be to nominate someone   whom Democrats are guaranteed not to like. ” ’   Among the names floated during the nominating process were former   Sen. Jim Talent, a Republican from Missouri, who served in the   Senate for much of the Bush administration. He  on the   Economic and   Security Review Commission, a group created by Congress that   examines the   relationship and prepares an annual report   on its   implications. ’ ’   Unlike Mattis  —   who has called the invasion of Iraq a ””  —   Talent is an Iraq War hawk. Though he   wasn’’t in Congress for the 2002 vote to go to war, he said   in 2006 that  Iraq even with the   knowledge there were no weapons of mass destruction. ’ ”   Another civilian name on the reported short list was that of   Stephen Hadley, the former national security adviser to   President George W. Bush. A controversial figure, Hadley was   largely responsible for the false allegation that Iraq   tried to buy uranium from Niger prior to the invasion, which   made its way into President Bush’s 2003 State of the Union   speech. He later  ” ”   Democrats shouldn’t just roll over and play dead on a Mattis   appointment. They and their Republican colleagues definitely need   to ask some hard questions of Mattis’ views on the detention   facility at Guantanamo Bay, women in the military, and how he   might counter geostrategic foes such as Iran, Russia, and North   Korea. ” ’   But with former defense secretaries endorsing him for the job   (Rumsfeld, Gates, and Panetta, among others) bipartisan support   on Capitol Hill, and a large portion of the men and women in   uniform rallying around him, Democrats would be wise to oppose   Mattis on substantive issues  —   not the issue of whether his   uniform has sat unworn in his closet for long enough. ’ ’   ”Considering the other picks that [Trump] has made, this   would be the wrong target” for Democrats to oppose, Panetta    at a national security forum over the   weekend. ’ ’   ” ’