’  ’ ’   Just before the 1st Marine Division advanced on the Iraqi city of   Nasiriyah on March 23, 2003, Maj. Gen. James Mattis pinned a star   onto each collar of his assistant division commander, Col. John   F. Kelly. He was now a brigadier general, and the first to be   promoted on the battlefield since the Korean War. ’ ’   Not far from there, another colonel in the unit named Joe Dunford   was leading his regimental combat team. ’ ”   By the end of the campaign, they had fought together in places   like Nasiriyah, Al Kut, and eventually Baghdad. The division they   were in  —   along with the US Army and UK armored elements  —     carried out one of the most aggressive,   attacks in   history, and 1st Marine Division’s ground march was the longest   in the  for which it   earned the Presidential Unit Citation. ” ’   Those three officers went on to become   generals. Mattis   retired in 2013 as the commander of Central Command, while Kelly   retired as commander of US Southern Command in 2016. Dunford   became commandant of the Marine Corps, and eventually chairman of   the Joint Chiefs of Staff, where he remains. ’ ”   All three remain good friends. And if   Donald   Trump’s picks for his Cabinet are all confirmed, they’ll once   again be serving together  —   only this time, it’ll be in the White   House. ” ’  ’ ’   Mattis has often been praised by senior leaders at the Pentagon   as both a strategic thinker with an encyclopedic knowledge of   history and an incredible leader. His legendary status among   Marines mainly originated from his command of 1st Marine   Division, where he popularized its motto, ”No better friend, no   worse enemy.” ’ ’   The    retired general is the only pick that has a legal   roadblock in front of him. A 1947 law, updated in 2008, requires   military officers to be out of uniform for at least seven years   before leading the Pentagon. Mattis  which Republicans have already signaled   support for. ’ ’   When asked recently if he was concerned by Mattis as Trump’’s   pick, Gen. Joe Dunford just said, ”.” ’ ’   If confirmed, Mattis would replace Defense Secretary Ash Carter,   who supports Mattis and called him ”.” ’ ’  ’ ”   John Kelly just accepted Trump’s request for him to serve as the   head of the Department of Homeland Security, . ” ’   Like Mattis, he is a blunt speaker who opposes the closure of the   detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. ’ ’   ”What tends to bother them is the fact that we’’re holding them   there indefinitely without trial. . .. It’’s not the point that   it’’s Gitmo,” he  earlier this year. ”If we   send them, say, to a facility in the US, we’’re still holding them   without trial.” ’ ’   Kelly is also the most   military official to lose a   child in combat since  . His son, Lt. Robert Kelly, was killed   by  in Afghanistan in 2010. ’ ’   If confirmed, Kelly would replace Jeh Johnson. ’ ’  ’ ’   Joe Dunford is the last of the three generals who is still in   uniform. He served briefly as commandant of the Marine Corps   before President Barack Obama nominated him as the chairman of   the Joint Chiefs in May 2015. He earned the nickname ”Fighting   Joe” during his time with 1st Marine Division. ’ ”   Dunford has been in the Marine Corps for 39 years, less than   Mattis’ 44 years and Kelly’s 45. His chairmanship term is   scheduled to run through 2017. Though the Joint Chiefs are not   part of the president’s Cabinet, they are appointed by  —   and    to  —   the   president. ” ”   Trump is likely to replace many of Obama’s appointees, but   Dunford may not be one of them. ” ”   Typically, Joint Chiefs chairmen serve two terms, and having   comrades like Mattis and Kelly in Dunford’s corner would make it    for Trump to replace him. ” ’   Trump has floated other generals and admirals for his Cabinet,   including Gen. David Petraeus for secretary of state and Adm.   Michael Rogers for director of national intelligence. Michael   Flynn,  for national security adviser, is a   retired lieutenant general who headed the Defense Intelligence   Agency. ’ ”   These choices don’t come without pushback. Some, like Phillip   Carter, a former Army officer with the Center for a New American   Security, have argued that Trump’s reliance on retired military   brass for traditionally   organizations . ”