’  ’ ’   The US was shut out of a new round of negotiations between Russia   and Syrian rebel factions hosted by Turkish officials in Ankara,   a source within the Syrian opposition told Business Insider on   Monday. ’ ’   The opposition source, who spoke on condition of anonymity   because he was not authorized to discuss the negotiations, said   American officials were not invited to take part in the talks   because of . ’ ’   ”The US is totally out of these talks,” this person said. ”And   they’’re pretty angry about it.” ’ ’   The State Department would neither confirm nor deny that the US   had been shut out of the talks. But an official pushed back   against the notion that the Obama administration was vexed by the     negotiations. ’ ’   ”We have seen reports of talks taking place between Russians and   Syrian rebels, and we would welcome any genuine efforts to ease   the suffering of the Syrian people, particularly in Aleppo, which   has endured so much hardship in recent months,” a State   Department official told Business Insider on Tuesday. ’ ’   The official also said that US representatives are ”deeply   engaged” with various partners on Syria. ’ ’   ”The US remains deeply engaged with the Turks, Russians, Saudis,   and Qataris, our European allies, and the opposition in Syria,”   the official said. ”Secretary Kerry met with [Russian] Foreign   Minister [Sergey] Lavrov and Special Envoy [Staffan] de Mistura   in Rome Friday, and has meetings with multilateral partners in   Europe this week.” ’ ’   The State Department  that the US was severing its bilateral   channels with Russia over Syria amid Russia’’s ”intensified   attacks against civilian areas,” aid workers, and hospitals in   Aleppo. Kerry has continued to meet and speak regularly with   Lavrov about Syria since then, however. ’ ’  ’ ”   Mikhail Bogdanov, Russia’s deputy foreign minister, did not say   last week whether Russian officials were negotiating with Syrian   opposition factions in Ankara. ” ’   ”We need no mediators with the Syrian opposition. We have direct   contacts,” he told the Russian news agency TASS. ’ ”   Among those present at the Ankara talks, according to the   opposition source, were representatives from the Islamist rebel   coalition Ahrar  . The Islamist   rebel faction,   which received     missiles between 2014 and 2015,   was also present  —   at Russia’s invitation, . ” ’   The talks have been aimed at securing a deal to deliver   humanitarian aid to eastern Aleppo  —   the Syrian city that has   been besieged and  for more than three weeks    —   in exchange for the evacuation of extremists groups like the   former Al Qaeda affiliate Jabhat Fateh  . ’ ’   ”Russia has indicated it’’d be willing to accept aid access and   local council control of Aleppo’’s east in exchange for JFS’’s   withdrawal,” Charles Lister, a Syria researcher with close ties   the opposition, . ’ ’   Separate negotiations between Russia and the US were apparently   underway last week to evacuate rebel groups from Aleppo, allowing   civilians to stay and receive humanitarian aid. But on Tuesday,   Lavrov  that ”those who refuse to leave of their own   accord will be wiped out.” ’ ’   ”There is no other solution,” he said. ’ ’   The US has  with rebel groups inside Aleppo to try   to negotiate the terms of their departure from the city,   according to The Washington Post. ’ ’  ’ ’   But the Free Syrian Army, a prominent coalition of rebel groups   opposed to Syrian President Bashar Assad, is not considering   withdrawing from eastern Aleppo, said Asaad Hanna, a political   officer in the FSA. ’ ’   ”We will keep fighting,” Hanna told Business Insider on Tuesday.   ”There are no preparations being made for the FSA to evacuate,   and civilians haven’’t asked us to either. They feel they need   protection from the [ ] militias and Hezbollah.” ’ ”   Forces backing Assad, including   Shia militias and   Lebanese Hezbollah fighters, took back roughly 40% of the rebels’   territory in eastern Aleppo last week amid heavy airstrikes from   Russian and Syrian warplanes. ” ’   Turkey, echoing a proposal put forward by the UN last week, has   been urging Russia to stop the bombing long enough for the 100 to   400 JFS fighters in eastern Aleppo to exit the city so that they   would no longer be embedded with more moderate rebel groups and   civilians. ’ ’   Amid thawing relations with Turkey, Russia  —   which believes there   are thousands, and not hundreds, of JFS fighters in the city  —     was considering the request. ’ ’   As of Tuesday, however, a deal had still not been finalized. The   talks are expected to continue throughout the week. ’ ’  ’ ’   Further complicating the negotiations is the feeling that Russia,   which changed the tide of the war when it intervened on behalf of   Assad in October 2015, may be losing influence in Aleppo. ’ ’   ”The Russians would prefer to have a   to help their   relations with Turkey and show they are interested in peace, but   the regime and the Iranians, they don’’t care,” Bassam Barabandi,   a former Syrian diplomat who is now a political adviser to the   opposition High Negotiations Committee, . ’ ’   ”They want to take all of Aleppo,” Barabandi said. ”For the   Russians, failing to achieve a   in Aleppo will show   just how weak they are.” ’