’  ’ ”   North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory  on Monday, but Democrats say   they’re afraid he is planning a political coup to keep power in   conservative hands. ” ”   Speculation is growing in the Tar Heel State that Republicans   will attempt to add two seats to the state’s Supreme Court next   week, tilting the balance toward conservatives. ” ’   The court currently has seven members, who are elected to     terms without term limits. With the  to the bench last month,   Democrats reclaimed a   edge. ’ ’   But if state lawmakers vote to increase the Supreme Court roster   to nine, McCrory, a Republican, would be able to appoint two   justices before he leaves office in January, when Democrat Roy   Cooper takes over. ’ ’   The opportunity for Republicans will arise next week, when the   state Legislature meets for a  to discuss relief for victims of Hurricane   Matthew. Once the session is underway, the Legislature can take   up unrelated bills, and its Republican,   majority could   introduce a   bill without public input. ’ ’’ ”   State Republicans have not said whether that’s in the works, but   some North Carolinians are still fearing the worst. ” ’   ”The chatter about adding a seat or two to the Supreme Court   arose about two minutes after the election,” when it was clear   Democrats had won control of the court, Ferrel Guillory, a North   Carolina politics expert, told Business Insider. ’ ’   Local newspapers have urged lawmakers not to meddle with the   court.  in Raleigh argued that a     bill would be ”an abuse of the legislative process,” while    said it ”would subvert the will of   the voters.”  called the idea ”blatantly offensive.” ’ ’   ”It would raise a ruckus, and frankly it would raise some really   serious issues about power in Raleigh,” Guillory told Business   Insider. ”It wouldn’’t look like good government. It would look   like a power grab.” ’ ’   The Rev. William Barber, head of the state NAACP chapter, used   similar language at a press conference last month to condemn a     scheme. ’ ’   ”If they attempt this, I want to make it clear, we have already   set in motion to turn our lawyers loose . .. to challenge this   power grab,” . ’ ’   North Carolina Republicans have used the special session to pass   contentious legislation before. In March, lawmakers  which limited protections for   LGBT residents. McCrory signed the bill into law hours later, and   it is now being challenged in federal court. ’