’  ’ ’   Americans from all corners of the economy seem to be enjoying the   conditions a lot more since the election of Donald Trump. ’ ’   Nearly every measure of consumer, business, or executive   confidence has gained in the month since the election, according   to Michelle Meyer, chief US economist at Bank of America Merrill   Lynch. ’ ’   ”The data clearly show that consumers, investors, and business   CEOs have all become more optimistic since the election,” Meyer   wrote in a note to clients on Thursday. ’ ’   Things such as regional manufacturing indexes, consumer   confidence surveys, and investor sentiment have ticked up since   November 8. The only survey that has slid is the     Empire Manufacturing Survey, which measures the confidence of   manufacturers in New York state. ’ ’   ”Bottom line: Most business activity surveys point to greater   confidence following the election,” Meyer wrote. ’ ”   The biggest confidence boost has  according to Meyer, with both the   Conference Board and Investor’s Business     Market Intelligence indexes hitting postrecession highs. ” ’   Investors and CEOs have seen jumps but are still not overflowing   with confidence, according to the note. ’ ’   ”However, investor and CEO confidence are still subdued, with the   former only modestly above its average since 2010 (52. 9) and the   latter much below (84. 1),” Meyer wrote. ’ ’  ’ ”   This sort of upswing in confidence usually starts to show up   outside of surveys and in real data in a short amount of time,   according to Meyer’s analysis. The increases in business indexes   usually point to an increase in capital expenditures, while the   consumer confidence indicators can predict consumer spending. ” ’  ’ ’   Some of the correlations are weaker than others, Meyer said, but   directionally they point to higher output for the US economy. ’ ’   ”Overall, we see a significant relationship between surveys and   actual output, but we would be careful given lags and historical   episodes with misleading signals,” Meyer wrote. ’ ’   While it is unclear if the survey improvements are  or simply due to the   election uncertainty being over, it is a great sign for the US   economy. ’