’  ’ ’   Vice President Joe Biden went off on the 2016 election as a whole   on Thursday, ripping it as a   spectacle that was a   ”battle of personalities” instead of ”a battle of ideas,” and   pointing a finger at the media for its coverage of the race. ’ ’   Speaking at a  in Washington put together   by New York University, Biden called the election ”tough,”   ”ugly,” and ”divisive.” ’ ’   ”This has been a very tough election,” he said. ”It’’s been ugly.   It’’s been divisive. It’’s been coarse. It’’s been dispiriting.” ’ ’   ”I find myself embarrassed by the nature of the way in which this   campaign was conducted,” the vice president continued. ”So much   for the shining city on the hill.” ’ ”   Biden asked why there wasn’t more discussion of policy or     issues. ” ’’ ’   ”Hillary Clinton was the single most qualified on the fact of it   to run for president of the United States that we’’ve had,   period,” he said. ”It wasn’’t that she didn’’t have all these   ideas. She did. But the press, you didn’’t cover it.” ’ ”   But he added a caveat, saying it was understandable when stories   like the leaked tape of Trump boasting about being able to make   sexual advances on women regardless of their consent because he   was famous arise, they’re impossible to avoid. ” ’   ”It wasn’’t your fault,” he said. ”When a guy talks about grabbing   a woman’’s private parts, when a guy says some of the incredibly   outrageous things that were said, it sucks up all the oxygen in   the air.” ’ ’   Biden asked the crowd what they knew about the 2016 election   other than the campaign slogans, such as Trump’’s ”Make America   Great Again” and Clinton’’s ”Stronger Together,” which Biden   mistakenly called ”Forward Together.” ’ ’   He also called for continued vigilance from progressives once   Trump assumes office in January. ’ ’   ”We should not remain silent one instant when this administration   goes after the progressive values we care about,” he said. ”We   should not back away one scintilla from the arguments and the   merits of all the things we care about. But we should listen and   we should realize the American people are a lot better than   they’’re given credit for right now.” ’ ’   Biden said recently he would  but he backed   slightly off of that in an interview with the ”Late Show” host   Stephen Colbert earlier this week. ’ ’   ”I don’’t plan on running again, but to say you know what’’s going   to happen in four years I just think is not rational,” Biden said   in the interview. ’ ’   He added that you can ”never say ’’never. ’’” ’ ’   ”Hell, Donald Trump’’s going to be 74. I’’ll be 77, in better   shape,” Biden said. ”I mean, what the hell?” ’ ’   Biden opted not to jump into the 2016 race last October after the   death of his son Beau. ’