’  ’ ”   Recent months have seen the Mexican government of Enrique Peña   Nieto  who has   besmirched Mexican immigrants in the US and promised a variety of   retaliatory measures against the US’s southern neighbor. ” ”   But Trump’s attacks are just the international dimension of the   problems facing Peña Nieto, his government, and his     Institutional Revolutionary Party. ” ’   At home, his government and his party have made policy missteps   and become embroiled in a number of scandals, involving graft and   corruption  —   messes of their own creation. ’ ’   Peña Nieto was  upon taking office in December   2012 for a   term, called a sexenio. ’ ”   He  pursuing reform packages   addressing Mexico’s telecommunications and oil industries.   Moreover, the first two years of his term saw steady declines in   deadly violence, which had hit shocking peaks during the final   years of his predecessor’s term. ” ”   That decline in homicides has seen a sharp reversal, however, and     incidents like  have undercut   the Peña Nieto government’s claim to a sound security strategy. ” ’  ’ ’   Between 2012 and 2013, homicide cases, as measured by the   National Public Security System, fell 15. 7% and then dipped 14. 6%   between 2013 and 2014. ’ ’   But from 2014 to 2015, total homicide cases ticked up 8. 8% and   2016 is on pace to see 20. 2% more homicide cases than 2015. ’ ’   Since official data on violence is shaped by political concerns   at the state and federal levels, the figures reported may well   understate the number of homicides in Mexico over the last   several years. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”W ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Peña Nieto’s personal dealings while in office have also inspired   criticism. ” ”   The  that broke in late 2014   found the president’s family buying an upscale home in Mexico   City on favorable terms from a government contractor run by Peña   Nieto’s longtime friend. ” ”   With that and other  Peña Nieto was   compelled to appoint someone to investigate his government’s   alleged conflicts of interest. He chose a man who was  a friend to him and his finance   minister, creating another conflict of interest. ” ’   That appointee found  a verdict greeted by Mexicans   with dismay but little surprise. ’ ’  ’ ”   Peña Nieto has also drawn heat for his more recent legal   maneuvers. In November, Mexico’s senate approved Raul Cervantes   to be the country’s attorney general. ” ’   Cervantes, a PRI member, was the party’’s legal counsel, and   ”h ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   Cervantes was approved for the position as the office was    into an independent prosecutor’s   position. ” ”   In that role, Cervantes would serve for nine years, and he   couldn’t be fired by the president  —   Peña Nieto or whoever   succeeds him in 2018. ” ’   Given those circumstances, the appointment was seen as another   effort by the PRI to shield itself from legal recourse. ’ ’   ”Peña Nieto wants somebody to basically protect his interests and   not move forward on investigations, particularly PRI governors,   PRI corrupt officials,” said ” ’ ’   ”And that is one of the main reasons there’’s some skepticism and   concerns within the    of the Mexican attorney   general’’s office,” Vigil added. ’ ”   Peña Nieto backed down at the end of November,  that would empower the   senate to appoint the country’s first independent prosecutor. ” ”   Peña Nieto’s approval ratings have  during his first three years   in office,  by his missteps at home and abroad.   But the PRI’s   wounds haven’t all come from   presidential matters. ” ’  ’ ”   A number of the PRI’s state governors have been implicated in   corruption schemes and other misdeeds. Several of them have gone   on the run. ” ’ governor of the   northeastern state of Tamaulipas from 1999 to 2004, is accused of   profiting from the network of the Gulf cartel, which funneled   cocaine to the US for much of the 2000s. Yarrington was indicted   in the US on a number of charges, and he has been on the run   since 2012. ’ ’  ’ ’ the governor of northern   Coahuila state from 2005 to 2011 and a former president of the   PRI, was  early this year on   suspicion of   and embezzlement. ’ ’   Moreira, who has never been formally charged, was released by   Spanish authorities a week after his arrest. ’ ’   US authorities seized a property in Texas registered to Moreira’’s   mother in relation to an  ”into millions of dollars that   were reportedly stolen form the coffers” of Coahuila. ’ ’   This week, Moreira  —   whose brother, Rubén, is currently governor   of Coahuila  —    that he was looking to run for a   local deputy position next year; a position that comes with    from arrest. ’ ’   But in the gallery of PRI officeholders accused or convicted of   graft and corruption, Javier Duarte, the PRI governor of Veracruz   from 2010 until October this year, stands out. ’ ”   A still unfolding investigation mounted by Mexican news site   Animal Politico has uncovered millions of dollars in missing   federally allocated funds and  that Duarte’s administration funneled   $35 million to shell companies, in addition to numerous  in Mexico and abroad acquired by   Duarte himself. ” ’  ’ ”   In September, the Mexican attorney general’s office said it would   begin an investigation of Duarte. That same month, the PRI    of his membership rights  —   the    in the party’s history that it had   done so. ” ’   On October 12, Duarte stepped down from his governorship to fight   what he called a ”” against him. ’ ’   At the end of that month, the PRI  him. ’ ’   In November, Duarte then fled the state, and possibly Mexico and   remains on the lamb (though new posts  on his Facebook page this month). ’ ’   The Mexican government issued a  for his arrest and offered a nearly    for information leading to   his capture. ’ ’   Duarte was hailed a member of ”” and as part of ”” in Mexico in     by Peña Nieto, a presidential candidate at the time. ’ ’   And Duarte  —   along with  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ”The PRI has been in existence since 1929 and they controlled   Mexican politics from 1929 to 2000,” Vigil told Business Insider,   ”and unfortunately the country under the PRI has just been   completely muddled in heavy corruption.” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ”   A November  found Margarita Zavala of the   conservative National Action Party as the leading candidate for   Mexico’s 2018 presidential elections, with the support of 30% of   respondents, leading the 25% of Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador (who   may ) of   the leftist Morena party and the 16% of PRI candidate Miguel   Angel Osorio Chong. ” ’  ’ ’   In    matchups in  Zavala led Lopez Obrador, 53%   to 37% and Osorio Chong, 58% to 27% while Lopez Obrador topped   Osorio Chong 48% to 38%. ’ ’   ”The government has aided López Obrador’s cause by dragging its   feet on anticorruption reforms and failing to prosecute theft by   its governors,” Shannon O’’Neil, senior fellow for Latin America   at the Council on Foreign Relations,  in September. ’ ’   ”Unless the government changes course in the next two years,   López Obrador could become Mexico’s next president,” she added. ’ ’   ”What I think the PRI is learning in this sexenio is they are not   able to function as effectively in controlling the political   situation and controlling what happens in terms of policy   outcomes as they were when they had a monopoly,” Shirk told   Business Insider. ’ ’   ”They’’re learning that as powerful and as strong as the party is,   because . .. it is the still the dominant party of Mexico, but   they are not the hegemonic party, the monopolistic party.” ’