’  ’ ’   Texas Rep. Kevin Brady, chairman of the House Committee on Ways   and Means, told Business Insider in a recent interview that he   believes   Donald Trump will be ”enforcement first”   regarding US trade agreements. ’ ’   The Lone Star state Republican,  free trade ”is   at the core of Republican principles,” also said his   recommendation for Trump when considering what to do with both   existing and future trade agreements is to ”keep what works for   America.” ’ ’   Expressing his eagerness to speak with Trump and his trade   transition team about the issue, Brady was confident Trump would   not seek to limit trade, but merely enforce existing agreements. ’ ’   ”This president is all about economic growth, and beyond tax   reform, in addition to balancing regulation, America needs more   customers,” he said. ”It’’s not merely ’’buy American. ’’ We have to   sell American across the world. And done right, and strictly   enforced, these trade agreements do just that. America wins, and   we create sales abroad and jobs at home. My thinking is that this     is enforcement first on trade, and we’’re right   there with him.” ’ ’   Brady, who supported TPP, mentioned trade enforcement    ”the   strongest trade enforcement tools America has ever had.” ’ ’’ ’   ”Moving forward, I’’m convinced this   has   unprecedented negotiating skills,” he said. ”My recommendation to   him is as he assesses old trade agreements and considers new   ones, keep what works for America. Keep our companies in those   regions because we need to compete and win.” ’ ’   When mentioning the   region  —   an area that was   sought to be addressed by TPP  —   Brady said the middle class   customers in that area are ”customers America needs to win.” ’ ’   ”So I’’m hopeful to have that discussion so we can make the case   that as fixing the tax code can solve a lot of problems,” he   said. ”And opening up these new markets are very important to his   vision of having the best economy on the planet.” ’ ”   Trump railed on many of America’s free trade agreements   along the campaign trail, particularly NAFTA and TPP. He pledged   to renegotiate the former and essentially kill the latter. ” ’   The   also promised to get tougher on trade   enforcement with China, promising to label the country as a   currency manipulator at the onset of his presidency next month.   During his ”Thank You Tour” in recent days, he criticized China   heavily when discussing foreign trade. ’ ’  ’