’  ’ ”   When Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn,   Donald Trump’s pick   for national security adviser, was working at the highest levels   of the military and intelligence field, he had a reputation as a   brilliant tactician. ” ’   But then, in 2014,  as the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency.   US officials cited clashes over his leadership style, but he   claims it was because he took a stand about ”radical   Islam.” ’ ’   Eventually, he  about how to ”win the global war against radical   Islam” and became one of Trump’’s most ardent supporters,  ”What the heck has   happened to Michael Flynn?” ’ ’   Some in the military and intelligence communities were shocked to   see Flynn encouraging chants of ”Lock her up!” at the Republican   National Convention, referring to Trump’’s opponent, Democratic   presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. And later in the campaign   season, reports surfaced of Flynn clashing with officials who   conducted a national security briefing for Trump. ’ ”   Flynn’s most recent controversy involved his son, who  on Twitter,   which baselessly alleged through fake news stories that a   pedophilia ring involving   Democratic Party officials   was operating out of a Washington pizzeria. Flynn himself    on his Twitter feed. ” ’   Gen. Barry McCaffrey told MSNBC recently that some of Flynn’’s   tweets ”border on demented.” ’ ’   Daniel W. Drezner, a professor of international politics at the   Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University,   concluded in his column for the Post that Flynn ”should be   kept as far away from power as humanly possible.” ’ ’  ’ ”   Some of Flynn’s former coworkers painted a picture of the   lieutenant general that seems to support that concern. ” ’   Sarah Chayes, who is now at the Carnegie Endowment for   International Peace, was a special adviser to Gen. Stanley   McChrsytal, who worked very closely with Flynn, in Afghanistan in   2009. She told Business Insider she shared an office with Flynn   for more than a year during this time. ’ ’   She described a ”   disruptive kid” who often   contradicted himself. ’ ’   ”I would put this like  —   imagine if the kid, the sort of   transgressive, fun, energetic, arrogant boy in the back of the   class, that that’’s like who you’’re working with,” Chayes said.   ”It was very   it is fun, he’’s fun to be around, but   unbelievably arrogant.” ’ ’   Chayes said that when McChrystal’’s team, including Flynn, who was   a military intelligence officer at the time, arrived at a NATO   headquarters in Afghanistan, they ”blasted in basically saying   everything was all screwed up.” ’ ’   They said ”they were going to, not only they could fix it, they   would fix it, but it was like   …     the implication was very   insulting to the entire command and that obviously felt like   something that was problematic,” she said. ’ ’   ”It was not only the individual officers being insulted, but   countries we’’re in an alliance with. . .. They had put lots of   people and efforts and energy and materiel into this   fight,” ’ ’   Chayes described a person who spoke in constant contradictions. ’ ’   ”You listen to him closely for six or seven minutes and he will   have contradicted himself two or three times,” she said. ’ ’   She also described him as a   which fits with what he   wrote in his book about being a ”maverick.” ’ ’   ”There was a sense in that headquarters and with him . .. kind of   like the rules didn’’t apply to him,” Chayes said. ’ ’  ’ ’   But she also described him as a good communicator who encouraged   open dialogue. ’ ’   One colleague  in November that Flynn would encourage   junior officers to challenge him in briefings, despite his high   rank. The unnamed colleague said junior officers ”just loved   him.” ’ ’   Another source told the New Yorker that Flynn often wrote ”This   is bullshit!” in the margins of classified papers he passed up   the chain. ’ ’   Someone who worked with both McChrystal and Flynn said McChrystal   encouraged Flynn to control his outbursts and listen to   colleagues who challenged the unsubstantiated theories he   promoted. ’ ”   Many former colleagues who have talked to the press (often   anonymously) since Flynn was named Trump’s national security   adviser said that while he is tactically brilliant, he struggles   with broad strategy. ” ’   ”He made a lot of changes,” one source told the New Yorker of   Flynn’’s time at the DIA. ”Not in a strategic way  —   A to Z  —   but   back and forth.” ’ ’   Retired Navy Adm. James Stavridis, who is currently the dean of   the Fletcher School, made a similar assessment. ’ ’   In an email to Business Insider, he described Flynn as ”a   superb tactical commander both in Afghanistan and Iraq, with a   very   view of Islam and a direct,   style   of leadership.” ’ ’   ”As national security adviser, he will easily do the ’’adviser’’   part of the role, which is in his wheelhouse,” Stavridis said.   ”But he will have to develop the ability bring opposing views   from each of the cabinet officials into synthesis for the   president. It is a very tough job.” ’ ”   Rep. Devin Nunes, who is chairman of the House Intelligence   Committee and a member of Trump’s transition team, said Flynn is   up for the job. ” ’   Nunes said he has known Flynn for a long time and has been   briefed by him dozens of times. He praised Flynn as ”one of   the best and most knowledgeable generals” he’’s seen during his   career in Congress. ’ ’   ”He’’s perfect because the   trusts him and many of   us in Congress trust him,” Nunes told Business Insider. ’ ’   He pushed back on the unflattering portraits of Flynn that have   appeared in the press. ’ ’   ”You don’’t have a   career, develop one of the most   successful military operations in the history of warfare and all   of the organizations he’’s run, all the promotions he’’s received   …       and then have a problem running an agency,” he said. ”You know,   it didn’’t add up at the time.” ’ ”   Nunes pointed to Flynn’s experience fighting Al Qaeda in the   Middle East. ” ’   ”He was the intelligence officer in charge of the machine led by   Stan McChrystal that tracked down and killed Al Qaeda, so we know   he knows how to do it,” he said. ”And he’’s one of the few who   would know how to do it who has the experience.” ’