’  ’ ’   A bipartisan group of senators is calling for Congress to   investigate recent reports of Russian interference in the   2016 election, which the CIA believes was done with the . ’ ’   The group  —   consisting of two Democrats and two Republicans    —   urged lawmakers on Sunday to put party politics aside and join   forces to stop the ”grave threats” of cyberattacks conducted by   foreign governments. ’ ’   ”We have an obligation to inform the public about recent   cyberattacks that have cut to the heart of our free society,”   read the statement, issued jointly by Republican Sens. John   McCain and Lindsey Graham and Democratic Sens. Chuck Schumer   and Jack Reed. ’ ’   ”Democrats and Republicans must work together, and across the   jurisdictional lines of the Congress, to examine these recent   incidents thoroughly and devise comprehensive solutions to deter   and defend against further ” their statement   continued. ’ ’   Reports emerged on Friday that CIA officials say they have   evidence proving Russian meddling to try to aid Trump’’s victory.   However, Trump cast doubt on the reported findings and insisted   the country ”move on” from the election. ’ ’’ ’   ”I think it’’s just another excuse. I don’’t believe it,”  in a Fox News interview on Sunday. ’ ”   Trump has received an onslaught of criticism for his   perceived coziness with Russian President Vladimir   Putin. On Saturday, NBC News reported  Rex Tillerson  —   an oil   executive with longstanding ties to Putin  —   to be his   administration’s secretary of state. ” ’   In their statement, the group of senators said Friday’’s CIA   report ”should alarm every American.” ’ ’   ”This cannot become a partisan issue,” the statement said. ”The   stakes are too high for our country.” ’ ’   ”For years, foreign adversaries have directed cyberattacks at   America’’s physical, economic, and military infrastructure, while   stealing our intellectual property. Now our democratic   institutions have been targeted. Recent reports of Russian   interference in our election should alarm every American. ’ ’   ”Congress’’s national security committees have worked diligently   to address the complex challenge of cybersecurity, but recent   events show that more must be done.  While protecting   classified material, we have an obligation to inform the public   about recent cyberattacks that have cut to the heart of our free   society. Democrats and Republicans must work together, and across   the jurisdictional lines of the Congress, to examine these recent   incidents thoroughly and devise comprehensive solutions to deter   and defend against further  . ’ ’   ”This cannot become a partisan issue. The stakes are too high for   our country. We are committed to working in this bipartisan   manner, and we will seek to unify our colleagues around the goal   of investigating and stopping the grave threats that cyberattacks   conducted by foreign governments pose to our national security.” ’