’  ’ ”     Donald Trump brushed off concerns that he’s not   participating in the traditional daily intelligence and national   security briefings that presidents hold every day. ” ’   In a rare   interview that aired Sunday,   Trump argued for why he did not need to receive regular   classified intelligence briefings on national security and   foreign affairs, saying he told intelligence officials to   only brief him when a situation the intelligence community   is monitoring changes. ’ ’   ”I get it when I need it,” Trump told ”Fox News Sunday” host   Chris Wallace. ’ ’   ”I’’m, like, a smart person. I don’’t have to be told the same   thing in the same words every single day for the next eight   years,” the   added. ”I don’’t need that. But I do   say, ’’If something should change, let us know. ’’” ’ ’   Trump emphasized that Vice   Mike Pence was   receiving daily briefings. ’ ’’ ’   ”In the meantime, my generals are great  —   are being briefed. And   Mike Pence is being briefed, who is, by the way, one of my very   good decisions,” Trump said, referring to his decision to pick   Pence as his VP. ”They’’re being briefed. And I’’m being briefed   also.” ’ ’   He continued: ’ ’   The interview also came days after Trump  among national security experts   by condemning a Washington Post report which said that   the CIA found Russian intelligence agencies meddled in the   US election to help the Republican presidential nominee. ’ ”   Critics argued that the   was attempting to   undermine the intelligence community’s credibility. ” ”   In Sunday’s interview, Trump refused to acknowledge the report’s   credibility, dismissing claims that Russia attempted to help   Trump by hacking the emails of top Democrats and selectively   leaking them. ” ’   ”I think it’’s ridiculous,” Trump said of the Washington Post   report. ”I think it’’s just another excuse. I don’’t believe it. I   don’’t know why and I think it’’s just  —   you know, they talked   about all sorts of things. Every week it’’s another excuse.” ’