’  ’ ”   North Carolina Democrats are worried over speculation that state   Republicans would try to limit   Roy Cooper’s power   before he even takes office. ” ’   The state Legislature had convened in Raleigh this week for a   special session  —   ostensibly to address relief efforts for   victims of Hurricane Matthew. ’ ’   But shortly before the session was due to end on Wednesday,   Republicans called for an additional special session, which   kicked off at 2 p. m. The session was approved by the     Legislature. ’ ’   GOP lawmakers declined to explain the purpose of the     meeting, although House Rules Chairman David Lewis hinted that   Republicans would try to tinker with the authority of Cooper. ’ ’   ”I think, to be candid with you, that you will see the General   Assembly look to reassert its constitutional authority in areas   that may have been previously delegated to the executive branch,”   said Lewis, a Republican,  in Raleigh. He added that   Republicans may ”work to establish that we are going to continue   to be a relevant party in governing this state.” ’ ’   Pressed on whether lawmakers would seek to change the governor’’s   power to appoint officials, including members of the state   elections board, Lewis said, ”I think you’’re on the right track.” ’ ’   Cooper  Republican incumbent Pat McCrory in   November’’s gubernatorial election, potentially representing a   roadblock for North Carolina’’s   General   Assembly. In McCrory, Republicans found a champion for their   hardline conservative legislation, including a voter ID law that   a  saying it targeted black residents   ”with almost surgical precision.” ’ ’   The call for a surprise session harkened back to March, when   Republicans ushered the contentious  through during a   special session. The   bill, which limited protections for LGBT residents of the state,   was signed into law by McCrory later that night with virtually no   time for public input. ’ ”   Democrats were quick to blast Wednesday’s extra session, which   was announced at around noon on Wednesday but had apparently been   in the works as early as Monday, based on the  requesting the session. ” ’   ”We thought that the representatives and senators were being   called to North Carolina because of the hurricane and wildfire   relief, but it seems that they are planning something bigger and   something more unexpected than we anticipated,” Ben Graumann,   communications director for the LGBT advocacy group Equality NC,   told Business Insider. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’t”This is why people don’t trust us. This is why they hate us.”  —  Rep.  (D) on surprise  special session  ’ ”   Before the start of this week’s session, House Speaker Tim Moore   fiercely rejected speculation that Republicans would attempt to    in an attempt to   undermine the court’s    liberal majority. Moore said   such a proposal is unlikely to come up in the extra session on   Wednesday evening, according to The News and Observer. ” ’   ”I do not expect to see the   that people are talking   about,” he said. ’