’  ’ ’   Sen. Lindsey Graham accused Russian hackers of targeting his   campaign accounts in an interview on CNN Wednesday. ’ ”   Graham, a former Republican presidential candidate, said the   vendor that administered his campaign’s accounts was hacked in   June. ” ’   Graham, who sits on the Armed Services Committee, floated the   possibility of ”crippling sanctions” to help rein in Russia. ’ ’   ”This is not a   issue. I want to punish them   for interfering in our elections, trying to destabilize the   entire world,” Graham said. ’ ”   CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer challenged Graham’s assertion, saying     Trump likely would not support stronger   sanctions. ” ’   ”I don’’t work for Donald Trump,” Graham said, ”I’’m in the   legislative branch. We have the ability to formulate foreign   policy, but he’’s the commander in chief . .. I want to help reset   the world when it comes to Russia.” ’ ”   Some GOP lawmakers have opposed moves to investigate Russia’s   alleged interference. ” ’   Rep. Chris Collins of New York said in a separate CNN interview   on Wednesday, ”I don’’t think we should continue investigations   because, at the end, what do we really accomplish? We need to   unite the country.” ’ ”   A CIA analysis of Russia’s alleged interference in the US   presidential election determined that hackers close to the   Russian government gained access to both the Democratic and   Republican parties. ” ’   While US intelligence officials say no information pertinent to   the Republican Party was released, troves of emails and documents   that were damaging to Democratic organizations and its   presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton, were distributed via   WikiLeaks in the months leading up to the election. ’ ’ ’ ’Sen. Lindsey Graham: My goal is to put ”crippling sanctions” on Russia ’ ’ ’ ’Sen. Lindsey Graham: Russians hacked into my campaign account  ’ ’ ’ ’Sen. Lindsey Graham on Trump’’s comments about hacking: ”If this was a 400 lb. guy, it was a 400 lb. Russian guy” ’