’  ’ ’   There are a few  that up until that point seemed impossible. The first      mile, the first summit of Everest, these are   feats that are now replicated with some regularity but that truly   pushed the limits of human potential at the time. ’ ’   Next year, however, a group of runners will be trying to   accomplish what might be one of the most insane of those goals   ever  —   racing a marathon in under two hours. ’ ”   That means they’ll have to average a     time   of 4:34 for the entire 26. 2 miles. Even if someone manages it,   don’t expect to see this sort of thing replicated on a regular   basis. ” ’   While there are  trying to utilize everything we know about the science   of human athletic performance to achieve this goal, the notable   news right now is Nike’’s December 12   which they describe as ”an innovation moonshot   designed to unlock human potential.” ’ ’   What that means is that they are going to match three of the top   distance runners in the world with the formidable resources of   Nike to provide them with the coaching and materials (and money)   to try to create the perfect conditions for someone to break the     barrier. ’ ’   Right now, the world record is held by Dennis Kimetto of Kenya,   32, who ran the 26. 2 in 2:02:57 at the 2014 Berlin marathon, at a   pace of 4:41 per mile. ’ ’   Nike’’s runners are Eliud Kipchoge, 32, of Kenya, 5’’6” 115   pounds, gold medal winner of the men’’s marathon at Rio 2016 and   called ”the best marathoner in the world right now” ; Lelisa Desisa, 26, of   Ethiopia, 5’’9” 125 pounds,   winner of the Boston   Marathon; and Zersenay Tadese, 34, of Eritrea, 5’’3” 119 pounds,   considered one of the most efficient runners ever, who holds the     world record of 58:23. ’ ”   If the three runners in Nike’s project are going to hit their   goal, they’ll have to finish each mile at least seven seconds   faster than Kimetto did in Berlin. ” ’  ’ ’   One of the first sports scientists to calculate that a      marathon could be possible is Michael Joyner of   Minnesota’’s Mayo Clinic, who Ed Caesar, author of ”,”  as ”a polymathic   anesthesiologist.” ’ ’   In a 1991  Joyner estimated that, with   the perfect conditions, an ideal runner might be able to complete   a marathon in 1:57:58. ’ ’   ””I did that [calculation] a for fun a long time ago now,” Joyner   told me in an interview earlier this year. ”I did it initially to   try to understand how the limiting factors associated with   performance interact, and I said that if one person had the   optimal values for every single factor [things like VO2max,   lactate threshold, and running economy] they would run quite   fast.” ’ ”   At the time, the world record was 2:06:50, almost four minutes   slower than Kimetto’s 2014 time, 23 years later. ” ’   Shaving another   minutes off that time in a much   shorter time span will be a challenge. ’ ’  ’ ’   Nike, of course, will be able to provide some of the key elements   for the feat  —   the top shoe and clothing material scientists, top   exercise physiologists and nutritionists, and coaches, for   example. But there are a number of other key factors too. ’ ’   The athletes need to be ”right” in the first place  —   most people   couldn’’t come close to a   time, no matter how much   training they receive. Different body types are perfect fits for   certain sports, and while there’’s some variation among these   racers, they all fit the mold for a distance runner (long legs,   not too tall, and, of course, skinny). These three were carefully   selected both for their current abilities and their potential to   improve. ’ ”   Crucially, Nike will be paying the racers well for their time,   since they’ll almost certainly have to forego prize money from   other races they won’t be involved in as they train. ” ”   Some existing courses like Berlin, Dubai, and the Polish town of   Debno are particularly fast, but it’s likely that a more ideal   course could be custom developed for the attempt. The ideal would   be a course that’s flat and has few, if any, turns (and no sharp   turns). Exercise scientist Yannis Pitsiladis, founder of the      plans to have runners attempt the goal at particularly low   altitude near the Dead Sea, where there’s more oxygen available   to breathe. Nike has yet to announce their course. ” ’   Hutchinson, who has  about Breaking2,  that it’’d be 2075 before the     barrier would be broken, that it would be just below 40   degrees outside so the runners wouldn’’t overheat, and that a team   of physiologically ”perfect” runners would need to work together   like professional cyclists to ”draft,” reducing wind resistance   for the other members of the group (professional     help with this role at certain races now, but they rarely are   there for the whole course). ’ ’   Hutchinson now writes that the goal still seems ”wildly   audacious” and improbable, but possible. ’ ’   Caesar, who tried to imagine what it would take to run a     race for his book,  to try is   ”gratifyingly similar” to what he estimated (they’’ve been working   on the project since before his book was published) and that   other of their ideas are ”much more elegant and incisive than any   I outlined.” ’ ’   When I previously spoke to Joyner, he certainly thought the right   person on the right day would be able to break the barrier. ’ ’   ”No one has yet gone all out to try to have the fastest possible   course,” with pacemakers and everything else required, he said.   ”You just need to get the top guys on the top day on the top   course and with a good prize money scheme, it appears.” ’