’  ’ ’   North Carolina   Roy Cooper slammed state   Republicans on Thursday for attempting to significantly weaken   his authority two weeks before he takes office. ’ ’   Republicans introduced  during a   session   Wednesday that would strip the incoming governor, a Democrat, of   some of his executive powers. ’ ’   Lawmakers had gathered this week to pass a $201 million relief   package for hurricane victims, and Republicans used the   opportunity to call for an extra session,  and allowing almost no time   for public input. ’ ”   The bills, if passed by the   Republican majorities in   both houses of the General Assembly, include provisions that   would limit Cooper’s ability to appoint his Cabinet, give   Republicans control of the state elections board during election   years, strip his power to appoint University of North Carolina   trustees, and reduce the number of state employees he can hire   and fire at will to 300 from 1, 500. ” ’   In a press conference on Thursday, Cooper called the moves   ”unprecedented.” ’ ’   ”Most people might think that this is a partisan power grab. But   this is more ominous,” Cooper said. ’ ’   ”Major changes in the way state government operates should be   done deliberately, with input from all parties, particularly   something as important as elections and making sure people have   the opportunity to vote. They shouldn’’t be pushed through in the   dark of night.” ’ ’   Cooper, who has two weeks left as attorney general before he is   inaugurated as governor January 1, warned Republicans he would   challenge any law that appears unconstitutional. ’ ’   ”They will see me in court,” he said. ’ ’  ’ ’   Cooper defeated incumbent Gov. Pat McCrory, a Republican, by   about 10, 000 votes last month out of nearly 5 million cast.   McCrory  last week, ending a monthlong challenge   in which he lodged unsubstantiated claims of widespread voter   fraud across the state. ’ ’   Voting on the   bills began Thursday and is   expected to continue through the end of the week. ’ ’   For Democrats, the contentious legislation drew comparisons to   the law known as  which limits protections for LGBT residents of   the state. That law was introduced in a   special session   in March, passed by both houses of the General Assembly, and   signed into law by McCrory in an   span. ’ ’   Meanwhile, House Rules Chairman David Lewis argued the measures   were necessary for Republicans ”to establish that we are going to   continue to be a relevant party in governing the state.” Lewis   conceded, however, that the legislation was at least partially   motivated by partisan politics. ’ ’   ”Some of the stuff we’’re doing, obviously if the election results   were different, we might not be moving quite as fast on, but a   lot of this stuff would have been done anyway and has been talked   about for quite some time,” he said. ’