’  ’ ’   If you had predicted back in 2006 that this crazy new thing   called Amazon Web Services would upend the $3 trillion enterprise   computing industry, and cause companies like IBM, Oracle, and   Microsoft to shake in their boots, you would have been   laughed out of town. ’ ’   Even as late as 2010, two years after Netflix had already decided   to go all in on AWS and not build its own data centers, the   enterprise world was debating if cloud computing would ever be   safe and reliable enough to use. ’ ’   Today, AWS is on its way to being a $13 billion business. Oracle   looked across the bow, saw a giant threat, and is building   its own cloud as fast as it can. Microsoft revamped its entire   company and chose its third CEO to go after the cloud. And   Google, the internet search giant, has become an enterprise cloud   provider, by many accounts the No. 3 in the market. ’ ’   Along the way startups like Airbnb, Spotify, Slack, and   Snapchat have grown into big, valuable companies, and new       markets like hyperconverged storage,     networking, and containers have been born,   too. ’ ’   While cloud computing isn’’t going away, the first signs that   it’’s becoming ”yesterday’’s” technology have begun, says   venture capitalist Peter Levine, partner at   the  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’very sophisticated end   computing. A   car will have 200+ CPUs. That’s a   data center on wheels,” Levine tells Business Insider. ’ ”   It won’t be practical for each ” ’   device to use the cloud the smartphones do. Today,   phones send everything up to the cloud to be processed,   the data is stored in the cloud, and the results are   returned to the device. ’ ’   But a   car will have too much data to shift   somewhere to be processed. And it will need the results   immediately. It needs to know instantaneously when to break or   speed up. ’ ’   Now imagine millions of artificially intelligent devices, from   cars to drones to medical equipment to manufacturing robots. ’ ’   ”You will never have enough bandwidth and speed on the network   between for that,” Levine says.  ’ ’   So the devices will handle their own processing and storage while   the cloud will morph into the big strategic brains behind it all.   These smart machines will send only the most important   bits to the cloud. The cloud will analyze and learn then   share what it learned back to all the devices. ’ ’   In this way, they will all learn from each other. ’ ’   ”And that’’s how devices will get smarter,” Levine says. ’ ’   Edge computing is a natural next step from cloud computing. The   computer industry shifts back and forth from centralized   computing, which has lots of power but is far away from the   person or device using it, to local computing, close to the   action but messy and hard to harness all of its capacity. ’ ’   For instance, mainframes (centralized computing) gave rise to   PCs,   (decentralized) which gave rise to the cloud   (centralized). So decentralized is due next. This is the   breathing in and breathing out of the computer industry. ’ ’  ’ ’   Levine has been through much of that. He started his career as an   engineer and business leader ( known for a whole bunch of   successful enterprise investments in startups like GitHub,   Digital Ocean, Mixpanel,  Udacity  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’     ’