’  ’ ’   This   knows how to hold a grudge; few of them seem   stronger than the one he harbors toward the CIA. ’ ’   He laments its analysts’ incorrect judgments from many years ago.   He sees political bias in their current assessments. And he   remains convinced that they worked behind the scenes to get his   opponent elected in his place. The CIA’s access and influence   with the commander in chief, which has waxed and waned during   previous administrations but has never failed to bounce back,   appears to be at an   low. ’ ’   Sound familiar? Not so fast  —   this describes 1968, and the     is not Donald Trump but Richard Nixon. ’ ’   On the surface, the two men look quite different. Few modern   presidents entered office with more national political experience   and   understanding than Nixon, the former senator   and   vice president under Dwight Eisenhower. Trump is   the only   with neither political nor military   experience. ’ ’   Beyond this, however, the parallels are indeed strong. Trump’s   digs at intelligence during the campaign and his reported light   pace of briefings thus far during the transition  —   once per week,   as opposed to the normal daily briefings that most     have accepted  —   presage a relationship with   intelligence much closer to Nixon’s pattern than that of any   other chief executive. Understanding the dynamics that were   present in   sheds light on what may come to pass in the   coming months  —   and offers a glimmer of hope for a better     relationship during the Trump administration   than now appears likely. ’ ’   Most of the similarities are worrisome. During his very first     session with Henry Kissinger, who would become his   national security advisor, Nixon excoriated the agency as a group   of “Ivy League liberals” who lacked analytic integrity and had   always opposed him politically. Even decades later, Kissinger   echoes Nixon’s mindset. “I thought the analytic branch was   occasionally a subdivision of the New York Times,” he   told me. “Biased very much to the liberal point of view. ” ’ ’   The effect was clear. While in office, Nixon denied CIA officials   access to his most sensitive policy deliberations, blocking any   insights they could have gained into what intelligence inputs   would help most. In a June 1969 National Security Council   meeting, with CIA officials in the room, the president accused   agency analysts of trying to “use intelligence to   support conclusions, rather than to arrive at   conclusions. ” Even today it remains unclear if Nixon actually   read the President’s Daily Brief (PDB) the agency’s flagship     product tailored explicitly to each president’s   perceived preferences. ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump also started off on a negative note with the intelligence   community. Before he’d even had his first classified briefing as   a candidate, Trump took a question about whether he trusted   intelligence. “Not so much from the people that have been doing   it for our country,” he . “I mean, look what’s   happened over the last 10 years. ” At the NBC News presidential   forum on Sept. 7, Trump said he “” during   his subsequent intelligence briefings to alter his views on how   to fight the Islamic State. ’ ’   Most notably, Trump has repeatedly pushed back publicly against   assessments of the Russian role in, and motivation for, hacking   inside the United States during the election. After the Office of   the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) and Department of   Homeland Security on Oct. 7 issued a  that the U. S.   intelligence community had become “confident that the Russian   Government directed the recent compromises of   from US   persons and institutions, including from US political   organizations,” Trump claimed the Russians might not have done   the hacking and even “maybe there is no hacking. ” In early   December, Time magazine  Trump as saying  —   after   winning the election and sitting in on at least three full PDB   briefings  —   “I don’t believe they interfered.  …     It could be   Russia. And it could be China. And it could be some guy in his   home in New Jersey. ” ’ ’   On Dec. 9, the tension between the intelligence community and the   Trump team escalated again. Reports emerged that key senators had   received classified briefings moving beyond the judgment that   Russia aimed to merely undermine confidence in the U. S. electoral   system to an assessment that Russia intended to help Trump’s   campaign. The Trump transition office quickly issued a  which   started, “These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had   weapons of mass destruction. ”   Trump himself expanded on this in a Fox News  on Dec. 11, in which   he said, “I don’t have to be told  —   you know, I’m, like, a smart   person. I don’t have to be told the same thing in the same words   every single day. ” It’s not hard to imagine similar words coming   out of Nixon’s mouth. ’ ’ And this difference provides hope that Trump’s   relationship with intelligence may yet grow into something more   satisfactory: Trump has been more open to intelligence briefers   in 2016 than Nixon was in 1968. ’ ’   Back then, the   did not take a single      meeting with the CIA officers in place to provide transition   support. When they instead sent him envelopes containing copies   of the PDB and other intelligence documents for him to read at   his convenience, they heard no feedback. Their suspicions about   Nixon’s lack of interest were confirmed near the end of the   transition when the  ’s office returned to them a   towering stack of   PDB envelopes  —   all of them   unopened. ’ ’  ’ ’   Not so in 2016. Despite Trump’s remarks about being told the same   things over and over, his reaction has included positive   elements. At the NBC News forum in September, Trump called his   campaign intelligence briefers “experts” and implied that they   had impressed him: “When they call it intelligence, it’s there   for a reason. ” ’ ’   And he has sat down for   sessions, apparently each   week, with briefers from the ODNI  —   far more direct exposure to   intelligence officers than Nixon had during his transition. On   Dec. 11, he told Fox News that these were “very good people that   are giving me the briefings. ” ’ ’   Unlike Nixon, Trump has also given the intelligence community   insight into what he wants from intelligence. Back in early 1969,   CIA officers were so desperate for insight into what would work   for Nixon that they took an offhand comment from Attorney General   John Mitchell  —   “The president is a lawyer, and a lawyer wants   facts”  —   to reformat the PDB, separating facts and opinions such   that analysts’ commentary appeared only after the relevant   intelligence reporting. The change seemed to have little effect. ’ ’   Trump, however, has given intelligence officers something to work   with. By saying that he doesn’t want to be told “the same thing   in the same words every single day,” he gives more insight into   what might work better for him than anything   intelligence officers got directly from Nixon. ’ ’   The President’s Daily Brief has always been tailored to the   preferences of the new Oval Office occupant, and it’s easy to   imagine that efforts are now underway to change the PDB’s format   to minimize repetition and instead emphasize what is new and   different. A shorter and punchier PDB may be the result, more   akin to a   Twitter feed than a series of long articles   thick with analytic language and nuance. Briefers would need to   focus on varying their language and pointing out the nuggets of   intelligence that give the president opportunities for immediate   action. ’ ’   The Nixon years tested the patience of intelligence analysts,   perhaps more so than in any other administration. There is little   doubt that trying times again are ahead for the intelligence   community. Unlike 1968, however, there is now at least a minimal   dialogue to build on. Trump may yet realize that building a   bridge to his intelligence officers  —   instead of burning it  —     will pay dividends in his new business, the presidency of the   United States. ’