’  ’ ”   Even though hackers responsible for the cyberattack on the   Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton’s campaign weren’t caught in   the act, it doesn’t mean they can’t be identified as     Donald Trump has asserted. ” ”   Michael Borohovski, a cybersecurity expert with experience   working with the intelligence community and Chief Technology   Officer of    says investigators have methods of uncovering the identity of   attackers long after they’re gone. ” ’   “It’s actually significantly harder to catch somebody in the act   than it is to catch somebody after the fact,” Borohovski told   Business Insider. “Unfortunately it’s not like in the movies   where as soon as someone is attacking, big red alarms go off. ” ’ ’   In a Fox News interview last weekend, Trump cast doubt on the   CIA’’s recent findings that  in cyberattacks against the Democratic   Party to help him win the election, calling it ”ridiculous” and   an excuse for the opposing party’’s loss. ’ ’   “Hacking is very interesting. Once they hack, if you don’’t catch   them in the act, you’’re not going to catch them,” Trump said.   ”They have no idea if it’’s Russia or China or somebody. It could   be somebody sitting in a bed some place.” ’ ’   Much like investigators at the scene of a crash can piece   together clues about the incident, cybersecurity experts can use   digital forensics to gain information about intruders, Borohovski   said. ’ ’   “You start looking through logs, you start looking through, at a   high level, digital breadcrumbs that were left by attackers and   over time, you slowly figure precisely what occurred, where it   came from, and who did it,” he said. ’ ’   Discovering criminals in the act is not impossible, however. ’ ’   In May, the Democratic National Committee hired security firm   CrowdStrike after a cyberattack and were able to monitor hackers   after they breached a network,  this week. ’ ”   On Wednesday, NBC News reported that US intelligence officials   believe Russian President Vladimir Putin  that targeted   Democratic Party leaders and organizations during the US   presidential election. The hack led to the release of thousands   of emails that damaged the party’s nominee, Hillary Clinton, and   was orchestrated by Russia in an attempt to sway the election in   Trump’s favor. ” ”   On Thursday,  said Russia’s cyberattacks   targeting US political organizations have continued unabated,   weeks after the election. ” ’  ’ ’   ”Certainly if they attack a system or an email server, they would   not have stopped there,” Borohovski said. They would have   attempted to gain what is called persistence in an attempt to   figure out how they can continue gleaning data and not just have   a snapshot in time.” ’ ’   Despite the findings from intelligence officials, Trump has   repeatedly dismissed the possibility of Russia influencing the   election. ’ ’   According to a  an attempt to form a bipartisan   coalition to publicly accuse Russia of meddling was met with   opposition from skeptical Republicans. Senate Majority Leader   Mitch McConnell went as far as to suggest he would accuse the   Obama administration of partisan politics if the White House   spoke up. ’ ’   The White House did not push the issue because it believed   Clinton would beat Trump and win the presidency, according to an   unnamed US official . ’ ”   Democrats like outgoing Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid have   urged for  of Russia’s impact on the election,   comparing the seriousness to Watergate or the   terrorist   attacks. A US intelligence review is underway and will likely   last several weeks,  from Office of the Director of   National Intelligence (DNI) released on Friday. ” ”   The FBI and the DNI on Friday  about Russia’s involvement. ” ”   In excerpts of an interview with NPR published Thursday, Obama    for its interference in   America’s Democratic process. ” ’   ”I think there is no doubt that when any foreign government tries   to impact the integrity of our elections that we need to take   action and we will,” Obama said. ’