’  ’ ”   Fox News anchor Chris Wallace on Sunday pushed     Donald Trump’s incoming chief of staff to answer whether Trump   believes US intelligence reports that Russia interfered in the   2016 presidential election through strategically hacked and   leaked private emails from the Democratic Party organizations and   officials. ” ’   In an interview on ”Fox News Sunday,” Wallace interjected   when Reince Priebus argued first that Trump would accept US   intelligence findings if they were made public.     ’ ’   ”A lof of these things, though Chris, are coming through third   parties. We haven’’t heard from Comey,” Priebus said when asked   about the reports, referring to FBI Director James Comey. ’ ’   ”This is CIA Director Brennan. You think he’’s lying about what   Jim Comey thinks?” Wallace replied. ’ ’   Priebus said he did not believe that Brennan was lying, but   claimed that Trump would accept that Russia   interfered in the US election if intelligence leaders,   including FBI Director James Comey and Director of National   Intelligence James Clapper, publicly came out and said so. ’ ’’ ’   ”It’’d sure be nice to hear from everybody. If there really is   this conclusive opinion among all of these intelligence agencies,   then they should issue a report and stand in front of a camera   and make the case,” Priebus said. ’ ’   He added: ”I think he would accept the conclusion if these   intelligence professionals would get together, put out a report,   and show the American people that they’’re actually on the same   page as opposed to third parties through The Washington   Post.” ’ ’   Trump has so far refused to accept intelligence agencies’’   assessments, which have been relayed through reports in various   outlets, including the New York Times and Washington Post. Trump   has called the reports ””   and insisted that the hacker ”could be somebody sitting in a bed   someplace.” ’ ”   The Republican National Committee chair also dismissed that the   hacked and leaked emails were not enough to sway the election   in Clinton’s favor. ” ’   ”There’’s no evidence that shows that the outcome of the election   was changed because a couple dozen John Podesta emails were out   there,” Priebus said, referring to the steady drip of hacked   emails that were released from the Hillary Clinton campaign   chair’’s personal account in the weeks leading up to Election Day. ’