’  ’ ”   US Republican and Democratic senators on Sunday called for a   special bipartisan panel to investigate cyber attacks against the   United States by foreign countries with a focus on Russia’s   alleged efforts to influence the US presidential election. ” ’   Charles Schumer, who will be the Senate Democratic leader in the   new US Congress in January, and John  the   chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said separately   on Sunday that a select committee was needed to ensure effective   congressional focus on the hacking of Democratic Party emails   during the campaign. ’ ’   ”The fact that they’’re hacking our political system and trying to   influence the outcome, as it seems to be, that is serious,   serious stuff,” Schumer of New York told a news conference in New   York. He said the panel should also examine hacking by other   countries including China and Iran. ’ ’   Two other senators, Republican Lindsey Graham of South Carolina   and Democrat Jack Reed of Rhode Island, joined Schumer and    of Arizona in sending a letter to Senate   Republican leader Mitch McConnell requesting the panel, Schumer   said. ’ ’   US intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia tried to   influence the election by hacking individuals and institutions,   including Democratic Party bodies. ’ ’   The matter has angered   Donald Trump, who says he   won the Nov. 8 vote fairly. ’ ’   Russian officials have denied accusations of interfering in the   Nov. 8 US election. ’ ’   On Friday, US President Barack Obama suggested that Russian   President Vladimir Putin personally authorized the Democratic   Party email hacks. ’ ’  ’ ’ told CNN’’s ”State of the Union” program that   the US response to the Russian attacks has been ”totally   paralyzed” and said cyber warfare ”is perhaps the only area where   our adversaries have an advantage over us.” ’ ’   The Trump transition team did not respond to a request for   comment. ’ ’   John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’’s presidential campaign chairman,   also said on Sunday that it was an ”open question” whether   Trump’’s advisers colluded with Russia to hack into Democratic   Party emails to try to sway election outcome. ’ ’   Leaked emails had revealed details of paid speeches that Clinton   gave to Wall Street, party infighting and comments from Clinton   top aides who said they were shocked about the extent of her use   of a private server to send emails while US secretary of state. ’ ’   The leaks led to embarrassing media coverage and prompted some   party officials to resign. ’ ”   Podesta said there was evidence that Trump associates had contact   with a Russian intelligence official and the website Wikileaks   before US intelligence agencies accused Russia of being behind   computer attacks of Democratic emails, including Podesta’s. But   he did not specify what the evidence was. ” ’   ”It’’s very much unknown whether there was collusion. I think   Russian diplomats have said   that they were talking   to the Trump campaign,” he told NBC’’s ”Meet the Press” program. ’ ’   ”Not what Mr. Trump knew, but what did ’’Trump Inc’’ know and when   did they know it? Were they in touch with the Russians? I think   those are still open questions,” he added. ’ ’   Asked if it was a free and fair election, Podesta replied: ”I   think it was distorted by the Russian intervention, let’’s put it   that way.” ’ ’  ’ ”   In a separate interview, Trump’s incoming White House chief of   staff, Reince Priebus, rejected the notion that Trump or his   associates were aware of and in touch with the Russians during   the hack attack. ” ’   ”Even this question is insane,” Priebus told Fox News Sunday. ”Of   course we don’t interface with the Russians.” ’ ’   The controversy, which includes a formal US Justice Department   probe, has intensified interest in a crucial Monday vote by the   Electoral College, which determines the outcome of US   presidential elections. ’ ’   Trump won the Electoral College but lost the popular vote. ’ ’   Electoral College members will meet in every state to cast the   ballots that will officially declare winners of the presidential   and vice presidential contests. ’ ’   The voting is usually a formality. Podesta has called for the   electors to be briefed about the hacking before they vote. ’