Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • A deal to end the brutal assaults on the Syrian city of Aleppo fell through and artillery shelling resumed. It was the latest bitter whiplash for the thousands of civilians and medical staff members unable to flee the ruined city for territory held by the   government. A nurse said he hoped the world would hear “our final scream. ” _____ • President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines, whose antidrug campaign has left more than 3, 000 people dead, made some of his most controversial comments to date. In his years as the mayor of the city of Davao, he said, he would patrol on a motorcycle, “looking for a confrontation, so I could kill,” he told a Manila newspaper. Killing suspects “personally,” he said, helped goad police officers  —   “just to show to the guys that if I can do it, why can’t you?” _____ • Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan welcomes President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia for two days of talks, hoping for progress in a   territorial dispute. The meetings come against a backdrop of uncertainty in relations between the U. S. and China, and tensions over the evidence of Russian interference in the U. S. election on behalf of   Donald J. Trump. The top U. S. commander in the    Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr. speaking in Sydney, acknowledged threats from China, ISIS, North Korea and Russia, pledged continued commitment to the region and signed a deal to fly   Raptor jets from the city of Darwin. _____ • The Federal Reserve, citing the steady growth of the American economy, raised its benchmark interest rate slightly, just the second increase since the global economic crisis of 2008. U. S. stocks rose briefly, and then slid as investors appeared to realize that the Fed was likely to be leaning against growth and inflation in the future. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. _____ • As part of his campaign to stimulate the economy, Mr. Trump and three of his children met with the leaders of the world’s most elite and successful technology companies: Apple, Alphabet, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft, Tesla and others. Before reporters were ushered out of the room, he said, “I’m here to help you folks do well,” adding, “And you’re doing well right now and I’m very honored by the bounce. ” _____ • “Can an American Dream sick with the American Disease last for long?” China’s state media outlets are having a field day since Mr. Trump’s election, depicting a nation blighted by corruption, social and political polarization, reckless debt and a weak news media. _____ • Yahoo disclosed that 1 billion user accounts were hacked in 2013 and sensitive information may have been stolen, the second major breach the company has disclosed. Here’s how you can protect yourself. • Japan removed a longstanding prohibition against gambling, amid projections of a $40 billion a year industry. “Japan is seen as the crown jewel of Asian gaming development outside of Macau,” an analyst said. • A giant American private equity group, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, is among a group of investors offering $5. 5 billion for Tatts Group, the Australian gambling operator. Tatts shares jumped on anticipation of a bidding war. • Meitu, best known for an app that beautifies selfies, begins trading in Hong Kong with a valuation in the vicinity of $5 billion, offering a gauge of international interest in Chinese  . • Amazon announced its first delivery by drone: an Amazon Fire streaming device and popcorn flown two miles from an English warehouse to a customer identified as Richard B. Aviation rules (and weather) still bar easy expansion. • Nintendo’s Mario goes mobile. The beloved plumber will be available on mobile devices in Super Mario Run, $9. 99 for full access to the game. • The U. S. blocked an arms deal to Saudi Arabia over concerns about civilian casualties in Yemen. [The New York Times] • The Pentagon tightened rules on combat for the second time this year, aiming to increase protections for civilians. [The New York Times] • Australia’s Defense Department failed to account for nearly $200 million in spending over and above the service contracts for military bases. [Sydney Morning Herald] • Japanese officials pushed the U. S. military to ground its troubled   Osprey aircraft after one crashed off Okinawa. [Asahi Shimbun] • India’s demonetization is having a disastrous effect on Nepal’s already sagging economy. [Reuters] • Women from Cambodia, Myanmar and Laos account for almost 40 percent of the migrant construction workers in Thailand. [Associated Press] • French terrorism suspects were   men in their 30s with no warning signs of radicalization. [The New York Times] • A wave more than 62 feet high was detected between Iceland and the United Kingdom, the World Meteorological Organization said. [BBC] • A visitor to Japan ponders what lessons the U. S. might take from a work culture that weathered long years of a painfully damaged economy without unleashing destabilizing resentment. • Al Franken, a Democratic senator who once made a living satirizing politicians, envisions an unfunny future under the Trump administration. • And meet the Michael Jordan of darts. Michael van Gerwen, a    Dutchman, has won 25 tournaments this year and has been ranked No. 1 since 2014. Even so, he still has something to prove. The death of John Glenn has resurfaced memories of his famous orbit of Earth in 1962. Back then, there wasn’t much debris to block his view or threaten his spacecraft. Not so anymore. Humans have created millions of pieces of   “space junk” during the past 60 years of space exploration. While most are less than 10 centimeters in diameter, even tiny objects can threaten spacecrafts and communications satellites. “Going at 17, 500 miles per hour, a little marble can wipe out a space station,” said John Crassidis, an University at Buffalo engineering professor. When bits of junk collide, they often break apart, creating more debris. Adding to the clutter are the abundance of satellites technology companies are launching these days. NASA has called for stronger international regulations. “It’s a political mess,” Dr. Crassidis said. Japan, though, is stepping forward to confront the challenge. Last week its national space agency launched a spacecraft featuring a   cable that can safely guide debris into Earth’s atmosphere. If the mission works, it could lead to more innovative approaches, like one a Japanese entrepreneur, above, recently discussed with The Times. He wants his company to be the leader in extraterrestrial trash collection. Its slogan: Space Sweepers. Giovanni Russonello contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.