’  ’ ’   Multiple explosions at a fireworks market in a town north of   Mexico City on Tuesday killed at least 31 people and left dozens   wounded, according to various reports. ’ ’   Just  numerous explosions   reverberated around the center of the San Pablito pyrotechnic   market in the municipality of Tultepec in Mexico state, about 20   miles north of Mexico City. ’ ’ ’ ”   Firefighters and   forces responded soon after,   and initial reports  that at least 40 and as many as    were injured by the blasts.     authorities later put the number of  while the federal police    as many as 70 could’ve been hurt. ” ’   On Tuesday night, the death toll was put at 31 people, while 72   were injured. Another 13 minors were to be  to a hospital in Texas to treat their   extreme burns, . ’ ’   The cloud of smoke created by the blasts reached a width of more   than a 1, 000 square meters,  to El Universal, and was floating   . ’ ’   National Civil Protection coordinator Luis Felipe Puente  Milenio TV that some nearby homes had   been damaged, and he urged people not to come within 3 miles of   the site. He also said there was no option but to let unexploded   fireworks go off. ’ ’   Mexico state officials said they were focused on the injured and   the cause of the explosions was still under investigation. Many   people in the area make fireworks for a living, some of them   doing so in clandestine work spaces,  to The Guardian. ’ ’  ’ ’   Police officers, firefighters, paramedics, military units, and   other authorities from surrounding municipalities reportedly    to support officials in San   Pablito. ’ ’   At least 10 ambulances and  from the Red Cross were on the   scene of the explosion. ’ ’   The San Pablito market is the  in Mexico for the sale of   pyrotechnics, home to 300 vendors selling with official   permission. The town is also the site of a yearly  and visitors and shoppers    among the injured. ’ ’   There have been explosions at the San Pablito market in the past.   A September 2005 blast  and customers. It   reopened the following year with new  on stall construction and   fireworks handling. ’ ’   But explosions in 2006 and 2007 destroyed the entire market;   after those incidents security measures were  to prevent chain explosions. ’ ’   Days before the blast, the director general of the Mexican   Pyrotechnic Institute  the San Pablito market was the safest   fireworks market in Latin America, ”with perfectly designed   stalls and with sufficient space so that a spark will not cause a   chain conflagration.” ’ ’   Footage recorded after the explosion showed emergency crews on   the scene, with scattered bursts continuing. ’ ’ ’