’  ’ ’   A retired professor from the UK says he might have pinpointed the   location of  the legendary castle where stories claim   that King Arthur held court some 1, 400 years ago   if he actually   existed. ’ ’ Camelot used to stand at the site of an ancient Roman   fort called Camulodunum in Slack, West Yorkshire in the UK, which   would have been an ideal spot in 500 AD, when King Arthur    as a     military expert tasked with defending England from invaders. ’ ’   ”It was quite by chance. I was looking at some maps, and suddenly   all the ducks lined up,” Field, who taught at Bangor University   in the UK from 1964 to 2004, . ’ ’   ”I believe I may have solved a    mystery.” ’ ”   Field  during the official   launch of Bangor University’s Stephen Colclough centre for the   history and culture of the book last week. ” ’   His hypothesis is yet to be   so to be clear, a   whole lot more research needs to be done before we can read too   much into it. ’ ”   It’s also important to note that, despite more than 1, 000 years   of research,    to confirm if King Arthur and Camelot existed outside of the   legends at all. ” ’: ’ ’     ”Despite the fact that the mythological figure has been wildly     popular for centuries, no one’’s actually been able to prove he     existed. But what makes Arthur so intriguing is the way we can     tie certain historical places and events to him.”   ’ ’   But if we take a big leap and assume Camelot did exist, where was   it? ’ ” has suggested that it could   have been in places like Caerleon in South Wales or  in England. But so far, there’s not   been enough archaeological evidence to tie any physical place to   the legend. ” ’   So Field did additional research based on the historical forts of   the time and compared them to the legend of King Arthur. He says   the site that best fits Camelot was the   village of   Slack. ’ ”   Looking at Slack today, you’d be   to find a reason   why someone would want to build a stronghold in what looks    but Field says the location   was once of great military importance. ” ’   Back in 500 AD,   Britons held back     invaders who flooded into the country from the north and west   coasts. ’ ’   It turns out that Slack, which is seemingly in the middle of   nowhere, could have been the ideal spot to set up camp to quickly   funnel troops to either coast to defend the nation. Its       it turns out, was important. ’ ”   Here’s where it is on a map: ” ’  ’ ”   To add to Field’s hypothesis, in Roman times, the fort at Slack   was thought to be named  which researchers think might have    over the years to become   Camelot. ” ”   And that could explain why the first mention of Camelot only   surfaced in literature many years after King Arthur’s suspected   rule. ” ’   ”If there was a real King Arthur, he will have lived around [500   AD] although the first mention of him in Camelot is in a French   poem from the Champagne region of France from 1180 [AD],”   . ’ ’   ”There is no mention of Camelot in the period between those   dates, known as the Dark Ages, when the country was at war, and   very little was recorded. In this gap, people passed on   information, much got lost in transmission, and people may have   made up facts or just messed up known information.” ’ ”   Without some type of physical proof in the form of archaeological   remains, we won’t be able to confirm if Field is onto something   here. But he’s not the only researcher seeking out the legendary   artefacts. ” ’ a team of British   archaeologists uncovered a series of massive walls that appear to   be from the Dark Ages at a location thought to be tied to the   Arthurian legend. ’ ”   The researchers suggested that these walls were once part of the   palace where King Arthur was born, and they’re currently   excavating the site to uncover more details. ” ”   But while it’s fun to think that the King Arthur of legend   who   had a roundtable and hung out with a wizard named Merlin   did   actually exist, some experts claim that the Arthurian legend   might actually be a  coming   together into a single, unified story. ” ”   So far, Field   who’s been researching Slack for the past 18   months   hasn’t mentioned taking his idea further into a physical   dig at the site. ” ’   But hopefully, his hypothesis will prompt  at this site or   others like it, so we can finally get some real clues into the   enduring mystery of King Arthur, or the   kings who   inspired the legend. ’