’  ’ ’   Donald Trump was  the 45th US president when the Electoral   College met Monday, despite having lost the popular vote to his   Democratic challenger, Hillary Clinton, by more than 2. 9 million   votes. ’ ”   There’s actually a way in which the US can keep the Electoral   College as the Constitution intended while still awarding the   presidency to the winner of the popular vote, . ” ”   It’s called the . ” ”   Here’s how it works. Currently, the presidency is decided by 538   electors, who are allotted to states proportionate to the state’s   population. Texas with its huge population, has 38 electors,   while Wyoming has three. ” ”   Much of the US’s population is concentrated in Democratic   strongholds  —   on the coasts and in large cities like Chicago and   New York City. The Electoral College, the logic goes, forces   presidential candidates to focus their attention on states that   could otherwise be overlooked, like New Hampshire and Wisconsin,   and theoretically gives small states an important say in who runs   the government. ” ”   The first candidate who wins 270 electoral votes wins the   presidency, even if the candidate loses the popular vote. It’s a      system. ” ’   The Times points out, however, that while the Constitution   establishes the existence of the electors, it does not mandate   how they should vote. ’ ’  ’ ’   Eleven states and Washington, DC, have passed legislation to have   their electors cast their vote for the winner of the national   popular vote. This agreement  —   the National Popular Vote   interstate compact  —   will take effect only when states   representing a majority of Electoral College votes, 270, sign on. ’ ’   As of 2016, the compact   —   it’’s 61% of the way there. When Obama   won the Electoral College by a huge margin in 2012, Trump himself    a ”disaster for democracy.” ’ ’   The Times called the National Popular Vote compact an ”elegant   solution” to the   conundrum. It keeps the Electoral   College in place, faithful to the Constitution, while awarding   the presidency to the   winner. ’ ’   ”A direct popular vote would treat all Americans equally, no   matter where they live  —   including, by the way, Republicans in   San Francisco and Democrats in Corpus Christi, whose votes are   currently worthless,” The Times wrote. ’ ’   ”It’’s hard to understand why the loser of the popular vote should   wind up running the country.” ’