’  ’ ”   North Carolina’s Republican governor seemed to be taking a page   out of Donald Trump’s book on Monday when he defended a   controversial law stripping power away from his Democratic   successor. ” ’   House Bill 17 contains several measures that limit the   executive authority of incoming governor Roy Cooper, who defeated   incumbent Pat McCrory by about 10, 000 votes in November. McCrory    on Monday, two weeks before Cooper takes   office. ’ ’   The bill was one of several   measures   pushed through the state’’s General Assembly during a surprise,     lawmaking session last week. Democrats  as a partisan ”power grab,” and hundreds of   protesters demonstrated against the special session in Raleigh’’s   legislative building, leading to . ’ ”   But in a statement, McCrory attempted to discredit the bill’s   opponents with a familiar trope  —   by suggesting last week’s   protesters were paid to be there. ” ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   McCrory’’s assertion, for which he provided no evidence, mirrored   comments from North Carolina state Rep. Michael Speciale,   who last week also claimed that protesters in Raleigh were   ”likely paid.” ’ ’   ”A group of malcontent thugs who are likely paid and bussed in to   disrupt the business of those who represent the people detracts   from the ability of the peoples’’ government to effectively do   their jobs,” Speciale said in a Facebook post. ’ ’   Such claims could signal that North Carolina lawmakers are taking   cues from   Trump. Three days after winning   the presidential election in November, Trump derided the   ”professional protesters” demonstrating against him in cities   across the country. ’ ’   ”Just had a very open and successful presidential election. Now   professional protesters, incited by the media, are protesting.   Very unfair!” Trump . Trump eventually walked back his   comments. ’ ”   A false story from March purporting to quote a paid protester    in March by Trump’s campaign manager at the time,   Corey Lewandowski, and the story was recirculated after the   election. However, the supposed protester quoted in the   article turned out to be fictional, and the author admitted   to  in an interview with The Washington Post. ” ’   Trump also  that forced him to   cancel a March rally in Chicago were ”professionally done.” A   pair of Democratic operatives in October  to incite   violence at Trump’’s rallies. The Democratic organizations said   the actions discussed on the video did not appear to have ever   taken place. ’ ’  ’ ’   Gretchen Garrett, one of the North Carolina protesters who was   arrested on Friday, told North Carolina’’s  she was protesting because ”this   wasn’’t what the founders had in mind.” ’ ’   ”It’’s insulting to think that people who live in the state don’’t   care about it enough to come down here,” she said. ’ ”   House Bill 17’s limits on Cooper’s power are  :   It requires the   General Assembly to approve   his Cabinet picks, dramatically reduces the number of   people he can hire and fire at will, and revokes his ability to   appoint members to the University of North   Carolina board of trustees. ” ’   Other bills passed during the   session will   effectively give Republicans control of the state elections board   in election years and require state Supreme Court candidates to   be listed alongside their party identification. ’