”Though a smartphone can handle more and more of your daily workload, it still can’t replace a    notebook when it’s time to hunker down.” ”But which to get? That’s the eternal question.” ”Unfortunately, 2016 didn’t make the answer any clearer. With laptop sales  no one manufacturer could get everything right.” ’While several very good notebooks launched in the last year, there wasn’’t One True Laptop you could point to and say ”this is the best machine for most people” the way you could about the MacBook Air years ago. Every good notebook seemed to have one or two nagging annoyances  —   be it missing ports, an awkward design flaw, some overactive fans, or a price that’’s just too high  —   that kept it from being great.’ ’But if you need a new laptop, you need a new laptop. There are still some notebooks that are well worth a look, from the budget to the  . As 2016 comes to a close, here are our favorites.’ ’Done right, a Chromebook is a better value for most budget buyers than a cheap Windows laptop. Lots of people do most of their computing in a web browser, and Chrome OS can get more out of weaker hardware. (. )’ ”The problem is that  has some glaring weakness. The  is no exception, but for less than $300, it’s about as competent as it gets. Just be sure to buy the model with 4 GB of RAM.” ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ”The one Chromebook that really soars is the . It looks, feels, and acts like a quality machine. It’s just priced like one, too  —   relatively speaking. But if you can handle the premium, it’s still one of the best budget laptops you can buy.” ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ”You can get by with an   Windows notebook, but chances are you won’t enjoy it. Generally speaking, they’re either flimsy, clunky, severely underpowered, or some combination of the three. So not a good   investment.” ”Microsoft has tried to compete with Google by touting   travel laptops like the HP Stream, but those are little more than glorified . They work, but they’re nowhere near as smooth as a good Chromebook. What good is Windows if your laptop struggles to do anything with it?” ”The  which goes for about $550, may never turns heads, but it meets enough of the . It’s not great, but it’s good enough. That’s a victory for the money.” ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ”Most people looking for an everyday laptop will want an Ultrabook. They’re slim, light, and easy to pack, yet loaded with enough power to run through most   needs. For as low as $680, the  is the most affordable of these that’s also competent.” ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ”The  has been widely considered the best mainstream notebook for a couple of years now, and its latest update yields no reason to think different. It hasn’t fixed some of its nagging annoyances, but even if the competition has caught up, it still excels where it matters most.” ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ’The  got a makeover earlier this year and came out as the best convertible for most people. If you want the    design, it should be your starting point.’ ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ”Hanging right with the Spectre x360 is the 13.  . If you want a larger display or you like its look more than that of the Spectre, it’s another elegant convertible with plenty to like.” ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ”I can’t recommend the  over the Dell, HP, or Lenovo models above, but it’ll hold plenty of appeal to the right kind of user, and justifiably so.” ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ”You don’t have to pay the premium for the  over an XPS 13 or Spectre x360, but if you’re a professional with money to burn, it’s the closest thing Windows laptops have to a luxury brand.” ’The new Performance Base model makes it a little bit better. Its high price and lack of   ports make it hard to see it as much more than a status symbol, but a good laptop is a good laptop all the same.’ ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ”If you follow the PC market with any regularity, chances are you have an opinion on the . You might think it’s bad! It certainly gives longtime Mac users reason to be angry.” ”But devoid of context, and away from the pressure of being a MacBook, it’s still just a nice piece of machinery. Apple has lost its grip as maker of The Best Laptop, but if you’re a Mac fan with a deep wallet, there’s much more good than bad here.” ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’ ”The Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Yoga is a fine laptop in its own right, but it doesn’t really ascend to the level of   notebooks until you equip it with an OLED display. Then it becomes a thing of luxury. The tech is clearly in its early days with this form factor, but once you’ve lived with it, it’s hard to go back.” ’Pros:’ ’Cons:’