’  ’ ’   Fox News executives have permitted Kimberly Guilfoyle to continue   hosting ”The Five” and offering political analysis on the network   despite reports indicating she is making a push to be press   secretary in   Donald Trump’’s administration. ’ ’   Politico characterized Guilfoyle  as a ”    candidate” making ”a late push in the race for press secretary.”   The outlet  last Wednesday that she was a   contender. ’ ’   The Tuesday Politico report said that while it was unlikely she   would get the spot over Sean Spicer, chief strategist for the   Republican National Committee, she might be added in an   alternative role. A senior transition aide told the outlet the   daily press briefings could be split between Spicer and another   person. ’ ”   Thus far, Fox News executives have stood idle  —   a noticeably   different approach than  when   over the summer he was under consideration to be Trump’s running   mate. At the time, Fox News suspended the former House speaker’s   contract to avoid any conflict of interest. ” ’   ”Due to the intense media speculation about Gingrich’’s potential   selection as Donald Trump’’s vice presidential candidate, we felt   it best to halt his contributor role on the network to avoid all   conflicts of interest that may arise,” Jay Wallace, executive   vice president, said in July. ’ ’’ ’   Instead, the cable news network seems to be parting ways with its   talent if and when appointments are made official. ’ ’   Last week, Fox News terminated its contributor contract with   Monica Crowley after it was announced she had been .   Fox News did the same with KT McFarland when she was selected as   deputy national security adviser. ’ ’   Both Crowley and McFarland were permitted to continue appearing   on the network while interviewing for their positions. ’ ’   Last month, when host Eric Bolling was reportedly  for a job at the   Department of Commerce, Fox News executives also allowed him to   continue as a cohost on ”The Five.” The network also did not take   action when contributor Laura Ingraham said she was being   considered for press secretary. ’ ’   A Fox News spokesperson declined to comment about the conflict of   interest in having network hosts and contributors provide   analysis about Trump while simultaneously interviewing for jobs   inside his White House. ’ ’   The dilemma facing Fox News is similar to the one that  when politics editor   David Martosko was reportedly under consideration for a   communications role inside the White House. ’ ’   The Daily Mail took a similar approach to Fox News, not publicly   addressing the conflict of interest. It was  that Martosko will not be in   the Trump administration. ’