’  ’ ”   There’s an awful lot of angst in the tech industry about what a   Donald Trump administration will do, and if he’ll follow through   on some of the more divisive promises he made on the campaign   trail. ” ”   On Tuesday, an Oracle employee working on the company’s     cloud business publicly quit the company . George Polisner was   protesting Oracle CEO Safra Catz’s decision to join Trump’s   transition team. ” ’   Catz was part of a room full of tech industry leaders that met   with the   last week at Trump Tower in New York.   Before the meeting, Catz said, ”I plan to tell the     that we are with him and will help in any way we   can. If he can reform the tax code, reduce regulation and   negotiate better trade deals, the U. S. technology industry will   be stronger and more competitive than ever.” ’ ’   Immediately after the meeting,  even as   she remained in her post as   of Oracle.  ’ ’  ’ ’   Polisner, who is an active Democrat in his state of Oregon, had a   long list of reasons why he was wary of a Trump administration,   ranging from concerns over how Trump will change Social Security   and Medicare to policies on social issues and decisions that will   impact the environment. ’ ’   In his public resignation letter,    explained, ”I am not with   Trump and I am not here   to help him in any way. In fact  —   when his policies border on the   unconstitutional, the criminal and the morally unjust  —   I am here   to oppose him in every possible and legal way. Therefore I must   resign from this once great company.” ’ ’ told Business Insider that he is not   leaving for another job. ”Right now I’’m less concerned about   income and more concerned about doing something that impacts   society in a positive way,” he said. ’ ”   Catz has not released a note to the troops at Oracle explaining   her decision to be part of Trump’s team,  Oracle declined comment on Catz’s reasons for joining   Trump’s transition team. ” ’   In contrast, Apple CEO Tim Cook  out to his troops explaining why    ’ ’  ’ ’   Polisner is hardly a lone wolf. Various employees in the tech   industry have been saying they won’’t help Trump build a   hypothetical ”Muslim registry.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The fears over such a registry stems from campaign promises that   Trump made about building a database of Syrian refugees. Trump   has been asked if this could be extended to a database of Muslims   in America and has never   denied it.  ’ ’   More than 1, 000 people in the tech community have  not to help   with such a database. ’ ’   Buzzfeed also asked a few companies if they would go on the   record and vow not to help with such a registry. ’ ”   The companies all said they haven’t been working on such a thing,   but a growing number of them were willing to say they would   refuse. This  . ” ’   Meanwhile,    their CEO, Ginni Rometty, to take that a step further in several   ways. They want her to ”respect our right to refuse participation   in any U. S. contracts that violate constitutional and civil   liberties.” ’ ’   They also want her to ” ’ ’   While they were at it, they tacked on a demand for  ’ ’ Shortly after Trump won the election, Rometty    where she praised some of his   ideas and suggested ways IBM can work with the federal government   (which is a huge IBM customer). ’ ’   That letter   too. ’