’  ’ ’     Donald Trump on Wednesday tapped Peter Navarro,   an economic adviser to his campaign and an outspoken China hawk,   to lead a newly formed White House National Trade Council. ’ ’   Navarro is well known for his    stance, which   matches up with Trump’’s  during which he said the nation was the   root cause of the greatest ”jobs theft” in history. ’ ’   Navarro has authored books such as ”Death by China” and   ”Crouching Tiger: What China’’s Militarism Means for the World.”   He has advocated a more aggressive stance in what he has warned   is an economic war with China. ’ ’   ”I read one of Peter’’s books on America’’s trade problems years   ago and was impressed by the clarity of his arguments and   thoroughness of his research,” Trump said in a transition   release. ”He has presciently documented the harms inflicted by   globalism on American workers and laid out a path forward to   restore our middle class. He will fulfill an essential role in my   administration as a trade adviser.” ’ ’   In announcing the trade council, the release said its purpose   would be to advise Trump on trade negotiations, coordinate with   other agencies, and assist unemployed workers. It will also lead   Trump’’s ”Buy America, Hire America” program, which is aimed at   boosting jobs in infrastructure and defense sectors. The council   will work with the National Security Council, National Economic   Council, and the Domestic Policy Council. ’ ’’ ’   ”Peter Navarro is the best person   Donald Trump   could have chosen to head his National Trade Council,” Commerce     Wilbur Ross said in the release. ”We were a   great team during the campaign, and we will be a great team   during the administration.” ’ ’   A potential   department is expected to take on an outsize   role regarding trade. Trump has not yet named his US trade   representative, the administration official tasked with trade   negotiations. ’ ’   ”I am deeply honored for the opportunity to serve the     and this nation and to advise on policies to   rebalance our trade, rebuild our industrial base, and restore   America’’s comprehensive national power by making America great   again,” Navarro said in the release. ’