’  ’ ’     Donald Trump turned to Twitter on Thursday to   call for the US to increase the capability of its nuclear   arsenal. ’ ’   ”The United States must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear   capability until such time as the world comes to its senses   regarding nukes,”  on the social media platform. ’ ’   Russia on Thursday  strengthening ”the military potential of   strategic nuclear forces” in the country. ’ ”   Trump’s proclamation comes one day after he met with top Pentagon   officials, including the Air Force deputy chief of staff for   strategic deterrence and nuclear integration, a post that broadly   oversees the Air Force’s nuclear weapons capabilities. ” ’   He tweeted after the Wednesday meeting that he was impressed with   the people he met. ’ ’ ’ ’ ’t’t’tI met some really great Air Force GENERALS and Navy ADMIRALS today, talking about airplane capability and pricing. Very impressive people! ’t’t’ ’   Earlier this year, the Obama administration  to upgrade the US nuclear   arsenal over the next 10 years to improve the missiles and   warheads and improve delivery systems aboard submarines and   aircraft. ’ ”   Trump’s tweet wasn’t the first time he’s promoted expanding   nuclear weapons broadly. ” ’   During the presidential campaign, Trump said he could support   countries like Japan and South Korea developing their own nuclear   weapons, a move that many experts said could  in Asia and the Middle East. ’ ’   Kingston Reif, the director for disarmament and     policy at the Arms Control Association, called Trump’’s     stance ”irresponsible.” ’ ’   ”The US needs to be playing an even more active role than it is   currently playing in reducing nuclear buildup, and Trump’’s   comments will not make that job any easier,” Reif told Business   Insider in March. ’ ”   Trump’s position on nuclear weapons has been inconsistent. ” ’   He said during the campaign that he wants to be ”unpredictable”   in his decisions regarding nuclear weapons, but has also said   that he would like ”everybody to end it, just get rid of” nuclear   weapons. He said in September that ”once the nuclear alternative   happens, it’’s over,” but that he still didn’’t want to ”take   anything off the table.” ’ ’   And last month,  that he ”never said” that more countries should   acquire nuclear weapons. ’