’  ’ ’   The Jacksonville Jaguars fired head coach Gus Bradley after the   Jaguars blew a lead to lose   to the Houston Texans in Week   15. ’ ’   While the firing was not undeserved  —   Bradley sported a     record with the Jaguars  —   from the sound of it, the way he was   fired could have been handled better. ’ ’ Bradley was fired   immediately after the game but then had to take the team charter   plane from Houston back to Jacksonville, resulting in an awkward   dynamic between players and the coach. ’ ’   ”Yeah, that sucked,” defensive tackle Sen’’Derrick Marks told   ESPN. ”If I had an opinion on if I thought that was the right   move, I don’’t think that was the right way to do it. He had to   ride the plane home back that way, but that ain’’t my call. They   did it. They made the move.” ’ ”   According to DiRocco, the team’s front office decided to fire   Bradley before the loss to Houston but did not inform   him or the team. At best, the decision would have made sense and   been justified if the Jags lost. At worst, if Bradley and the   Jags had defeated the Texans, which they very nearly did, would   the front office have fired him anyway, even after the team’s   third win of the season? ” ’’ ”   Additionally, the players didn’t receive a formal announcement   that Bradley had been fired, leaving them to find out via social   media. ” ’   ”Sitting on the bus waiting to go to the airport, and the things   start popping up on social media. That’’s how we found out, so it   was very surprising,” linebacker Paul Posluszny told ESPN. ’ ’   According to DiRocco, Bradley walked around the team plane   talking to players. While some were happy to talk to their coach   and wish him well, DiRocco reports that others didn’’t know what   to say to him. Marks said that Bradley was ”very cordial” in   speaking to players on the plane. ’ ”   Such is the NFL schedule that players also have no time to mourn   Bradley’s termination. ” ’   ”It sucks from being a player and understanding how this business   works, but the train stops for no one. We can’’t sit here and pout   and be upset, because we have a game Saturday,” defensive end   Malik Jackson said. ”Gus got fired. We’’ve got to keep rolling and   go out here and win some games, or [Jags owner Shad] Khan’’s going   to fire one of us, too.” ’ ”   While the Jaguars may have been overdue for a change in coaches  —     and Bradley clearly wasn’t getting the job done  —   the handling of   the situation sounds about as successful as the Jaguars’     execution has been this year. The team is  . ”