’  ’ ’   WASHINGTON, DC  —   In response to a series of cost overruns and   other development issues for the   fighter jet,     Donald Trump said on Thursday he has asked   Boeing to ”  a comparable   Super Hornet.” ’ ’   Trump’’s request  —   announced   —   came a day after  to discuss bringing the ”costs down” on the       stealth jet and the next fleet of   presidential aircraft. ’ ’   Boeing’’s response  —   also announced   —   said it accepted the invitation to work   with the Trump administration to ” ’ ’   On  Trump said the cost for Lockheed   Martin’’s   stealth   Lightning II jet was ”out   of control.” The message sent  at the   opening bell to $245. 50, before it rebounded to a little more   than $253 a share. Similarly on Thursday, shares of Lockheed   Martin  after hours ’ ’  ’ ’   ”We’’re trying to get costs down . .. primarily the   we’’re   trying to get the cost down. It’’s a program that is very, very   expensive,”  ’ ’   ” ’ ”   Lockheed Martin’s   Lightning II, valued at an acquisition   cost of $379 billion, has become one of the most challenged   programs in the history of the Department of Defense. It has   experienced setbacks that include faulty ejection seats, software   delays, and   issues. ” ’  ’ ’   ”The problems on this program quite frankly in the past were very   simple. We were overly optimistic in the technical risk in   building this leading edge fighter and so we put unrealistic   schedules and budgets together and then when we ran into problems   we did not manage them very well,”    ’ ’  ’ ’      ’ ’   The suggested Boeing   ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’  ’ ’   All of the fighters are equipped with     stealth, supersonic speed, and ”the most powerful and   comprehensive integrated sensor package of any fighter aircraft   in history,” Jeff Babione, the head of Lockheed Martin’’s     program, said in a statement. ’ ’      ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   In other words, the   gives pilots the ability to see but not   be seen. ’ ’  ’ ’   What’’s more, unlike any other fielded fighter jet, the   can   share what it sees in the battle space with counterparts, which   creates a ”family of systems.” ’ ’   ”  technology, it’’s no longer about a platform.   It’’s about a family of systems, and it’’s about a network, and   that’’s what gives us an asymmetric advantage,” Gen. David   Goldfein, the Air Force chief of staff,  . ’ ’   Elaborating on the advantages, US Air Force Brig. Gen. Scott   Pleus, the director of the   integration office, said the   aircraft was ”.” ’ ’   ”In terms of lethality and survivability, the aircraft is   absolutely head and shoulders above our legacy fleet of fighters   currently fielded,” said Pleus, an   pilot and former command   pilot with more than 2, 300 flying hours. ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Earlier this week, the   Joint Program Office released   the finalized price for the most recent production contract for   the   jet. ’ ’   After a little more than 14 months of negotiations between the   Department of Defense and Lockheed Martin,  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   By comparison, in the previous contract,    ’ ’  ’ ’   ’ ’   ”So they cut their production in half and as a result of that   when you do an economies of scale in one direction it hurts you   in the other direction. Having said that, I   fully  ’ ’   And by ”significantly” Bogdan added that he   believes  ’ ’   ’