’  ’ ’   The UN Security Council passed a resolution Friday urging Israel   to halt building settlements on occupied Palestinian land in an   unexpected vote from which the US abstained. ’ ”   The US’s ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, abstained from   voting on the resolution, which has been perceived as a slight   against Israel. ” ’   ”The grudge match” between President Barack Obama and Israeli   Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ”finally reached its peak,”   said Jonathan Schanzer, a Middle East analyst and vice president   of research at the conservative think tank Foundation for Defense   of Democracies, based in Washington, DC. ’ ’   ”This is a move that Obama has been orchestrating for months, if   not years,” Schanzer said, alluding to  between the American and Israeli   leaders. ”He had several options at his disposal, but a United   Nations Security Council resolution is the most permanent among   them. Indeed, you can’’t unring this bell.” ’ ’   Obama’’s deputy national security adviser, Ben Rhodes, said the   president decided to have the US abstain from the UN vote on   Friday morning after seeing the final text of the resolution.   Rhodes added that the notion that Obama’’s decision was influenced   by Trump’’s policies was ”absurd.” ’ ’   Both Netanyahu and US   Donald Trump urged the US   to vote against the resolution, which was sponsored by Egypt.   When it became clear that Obama was not going to obstruct the   vote, however, Netanyahu  and asked that he weigh in, which   Trump did in a statement on Thursday morning. ’ ’   ”The resolution being considered at the United Nations Security   Council regarding Israel should be vetoed,”  calling the vote ”extremely unfair.” ’ ’   Trump also spoke with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah     about the vote by phone on Thursday, . Sisi withdrew the measure under   pressure, but it was ultimately put forward by New Zealand,   Malaysia, Venezuela, and Senegal. ’ ’  ’ ’   Netanyahu’’s office released a statement rejecting the vote,   calling it ”absurd” and saying Israel ”looks forward” to working   with the incoming Trump administration to ”negate” the   resolution’’s ”harmful effects.” ’ ’   After the vote Friday, Trump promised that ”things will be   different” after he takes office. ’ ’   Explaining her decision to abstain from the vote, Power said the   ”US has been sending the message that the settlements must stop,   privately and publicly, for five decades,” and that allowing its   passage ”is in line with bipartisan US policy.” She added that   the US is still committed to Israel’’s security and working toward   a   solution with Palestine. ’ ’   US Secretary of State John Kerry said  that the US ”acted with one primary   objective in mind: to preserve the possibility of the     solution.” ’ ’   ”While we do not agree with every aspect of this resolution, it   rightly condemns violence and incitement and settlement activity   and calls on both sides to take constructive steps to reverse   current trends and advance the prospects for a     solution,” he said. ’ ’   The last time the   UN Security Council adopted a   resolution on Israeli settlements was 36 years ago. The chamber   broke into spontaneous applause after the resolution was passed,   with 14 members voting ”yes” and only the US abstaining. ’ ’   The resolution ”condemned all measures aimed at altering the   demographic composition, character, and status of the Palestinian   territory, occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem,” and   requested the UN   ”to report to the council   every three months on the implementation of the provisions of the   present resolution.” ’ ’   Republican lawmakers were quick to condemn the resolution’’s   passage. House Speaker Paul Ryan called the vote ”” and ”a blow to peace that sets a dangerous   precedent for further diplomatic efforts to isolate and demonize   Israel.” He vowed that ”our unified Republican government” would   work to reverse the resolution. ’ ’   Arizona Sen. John McCain, the Republican chair of the Senate   Armed Services Committee, said in a statement that the vote   ”marks another shameful chapter in the bizarre     history of the United Nations.” He also slammed the US for   abstaining, saying it ”made us complicit in this outrageous   attack.” ’ ’   And South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham vowed to form a bipartisan   coalition to ”” US assistance to the UN if the   resolution passed. The US contributes approximately 22% of the   UN’’s total budget, he said. ’ ’   Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer, president of the political risk   firm Eurasia Group, said  that ”if Obama wanted to move on Israeli settlements   issue at UN, he had eight years” to do so. ’ ’   ”After Trump’’s election, it’’s a farce,” he added. ”Credit   deserved: zero.” ’ ”   Schanzer seemed to agree with Bremmer that the US’s abstention   appeared politically motivated. ” ’   ”I strongly believe that had Hillary Clinton won the election,   Obama would have respected her desire for him to stay away from     moves that could encumber her ability to restore   the warm ties that the US has long enjoyed with Israel,” Schanzer   said. ”From Hawaii, Obama was leading from behind, pushing other   countries to punish Israel with a resolution at the Security   Council.” ’ ’  ’ ’   Others applauded the vote as a promising step down the path of   implementing a   solution for Israel and Palestine. ’ ’   The United Kingdom’’s ambassador to the UN, Matthew Rycroft, said   that the resolution was a ”sober recognition that the     solution is slipping away,” and that Israel’’s settlement   expansion was ”corroding the possibility” of a lasting   peace in the Middle East. ’ ’   It is ”because of our commitment to Israel’’s security that we   voted for today’’s resolution and worked tirelessly to draft a   clear and balanced text,” Rycroft said. ”The settlement expansion   is illegal and is not in Israel’’s   interests.” ’ ’   The   Jewish lobbying organization    that it   welcomed the US abstention on the council’’s vote, ”which   reaffirms the need for a   solution and calls for a halt   to actions by both sides that serve to undermine the prospects   for peace.” ’ ’   Palestine’’s ambassador to the UN said that the vote ”will   alleviate the suffering of our people,” and that ”our appeals [to   stop the settlements] have been calls for the council to   contribute” to   peace in the region and in the world. He   said ”urgent efforts are needed” to hold Israel accountable for   its settlement expansion. ’