’  ’ ”   The UN Security Council on Friday passed a resolution demanding   that Israel halt building settlements on occupied Palestinian   territory, a move that was permitted by the US’s abstention. ” ’ put forward by by New Zealand, Malaysia,   Venezuela, and Senegal, passed with 14 members of the council   voting in favor. The US abstained, refusing to use its power as a   sitting member of the Security Council to veto. In doing so, the   Obama administration defied pressure from US     Donald Trump, along with bipartisan members of Congress. ’ ’   The resolution says that Israeli settlements in Palestinian   territories have ”no legal validity” and constitute a ”flagrant   violation under international law.” The settlements are a   ”major obstacle to the achievement of the   (sic)   solution,” and a, ”just, lasting and comprehensive peace,”   the resolution says.  ’ ’   Members of the council clapped and cheered as the vote passed. It   was the first time in 36 years the UN adopted a resolution on   Israeli settlements. ’ ’   Israel strongly condemned what it called a ”shameful  ”   resolution and said it would not abide by its terms. In a   statement, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’’s office also   accused the US of being complicit in the UN effort. ’ ’   ”The Obama administration not only failed to protect Israel   against this   at the UN, it colluded with it behind the   scenes,” the statement read. It said it looked forward to   ”working with   Trump and with all our friends in   Congress, Republicans and Democrats alike.” ’ ’   Bipartisan members of Congress had denounced the resolution   leading up to its passage. Sen. Lindsey Graham, a Republican from   South Carolina, called it a ”provocative action,” that ”must   be dealt with sternly and forcefully.” ’ ’   Graham said he would work to form a bipartisan coalition to   ”suspend or significantly reduce United States assistance to the   United Nations.” ’ ’   Sen. Tom Cotton, a Republican from Arkansas  that ” ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Samantha Power, the US ambassador to the UN, told the Security   Council that the US would not have let the resolution pass if it   didn’’t address ”counterproductive” measures by Palestinians to   the peace process.  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’  ’ ’   Trump and Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu intervened on   Thursday, with both men personally calling on Egyptian   president  ’ ’  ’