’  ’ ’   Carl Paladino, the former   of   Donald   Trump’’s New York campaign and the Republican nominee for governor   of New York in 2010, told a Buffalo arts publication that his   wishes for 2017 included President Barack Obama dying of mad cow   disease and his wife, first lady Michelle Obama, ”return to being   a male.” ’ ’   The Buffalo developer and member of ths local school board    when asked   what he wished to see happen in 2017. ’ ’   ”Obama catches mad cow disease after being caught having   relations with a Herford,” he said. ”He dies before his trial and   is buried in a cow pasture next to Valerie Jarrett, who died   weeks prior, after being convicted of sedition and treason, when   a Jihady cell mate mistook her for being a nice person and   decapitated her.” ’ ’ then moved on to his racially charged   comment about Michelle. ’ ’   ”I’’d like her to return to being a male and let loose in the   outback of Zimbabwe where she lives comfortably in a cave with   Maxie, the gorilla.” ’ ’’ ”   The Buffalo News  to verify the   comments. He confirmed he did before attacking the newspaper’s   editors for asking. ” ’   ”Of course I did,”  told the publication   Friday. ”Tell them to all go     themselves.” ’ ’   ”Tell that Rod Watson I made that comment just for him,” he   continued. Watson, an editor and columnist at the publication, is   black. ’ ’   Paladino met with Trump earlier this month at Trump Tower, but   did not divulge what he discussed with the  . ’ ’   The Trump transition team did not immediately return a request   for comment about n a      Paladino said the comments had ”nothing to do with race.” ’ ’   ”That’s the typical stance of the press when they can’t otherwise   defend the acts of the person being attacked,” he said, later   adding that Michelle ”hated America before her husband won” and   calling Barack ”a   coward who left thousands to die   in Syria.” ’ ’   Paladino also  ”old style humor” ’ ’   The remarks were swiftly condemned by many. ’ ’   New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo released a statement calling the   remarks ”racist, ugly, and reprehensible,” adding his former   opponent ”has a long history of racist and incendiary comments.” ’ ’   ”While most New Yorkers know Mr. Paladino is not to be taken   seriously, as his erratic behavior defies any rational analysis   and he has no credibility, his words are still jarring,” Cuomo   said. ”His remarks do not reflect the sentiments or opinions of   any real New Yorker and he has embarrassed the good people of the   state with his latest   rage.” ’ ’   A fellow Buffalo school board member added that the   comments  ”most assuredly about race.” ’