’  ’ ’   On Thursday,    that the ”United States   must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability until   such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes.” ’ ’   In the  Trump said ”Russia has   been expanding” its nuclear weapons, adding that it has ”a much   newer capability than we do.” ’ ’   But according to  the founding publisher of    although Russia may have updated its missiles   and warheads more recently, the idea that Moscow has better   capabilities is ”almost certainly not true.” ’ ’   the ’’s director for   disarmament and threat reduction policy, told Business Insider   that the US’’s nuclear arsenal is ”second to none,” and that   expanding US nuclear stockpiles risks ”accelerating and worsening   global nuclear competition and the chances of war.” ’ ”   But fears that Russia has surpassed the US in nuclear ferocity   are not completely unfounded. On paper, newer, more complicated,   and more fearsome weapons constitute Russia’s nuclear arsenal. ” ”   Russia’s  introduced in the   can strike anywhere in   the US with what some report to be 10 independently targetable   nuclear warheads. ” ’  ’ ”   These 10 warheads would reenter the Earth’s atmosphere at   hypersonic speeds  —   around 5 miles a second.  and   the US simply has no way to defend against a salvo of such   devastating nukes. ” ”   In comparison, the US’s  also reenters the   atmosphere at hypersonic speeds, but it carries just one warhead   and was introduced in the 1970s. ” ’   But the question of whose are better is more a philosophical one   than a straight comparison of capabilities. ’ ”   Lewis says that US Strategic Command leaders, who command the   country’s nuclear arsenal, have said for decades that given the   choice between the US’s nukes and Russia’s, they’d choose the   US’s missiles every time. ” ”   In an interview with Business Insider, Lewis said that the US’s   arsenal, while it lacks the potential to devastate and lay waste   to whole continents, much better fits the US’s strategic needs. ” ’  ’ ’   ”Russians made a really different design choice than we did” when   it came to building ICBMs, said Lewis. ’ ’   ”Russia built nuclear weapons that are incremental improvements,”   he said, or weapons that would need updating every decade or so. ’ ’   On the other hand, ”US nukes are like Ferraris: beautiful,   intricate, and designed for high performance,” he said. ”Experts   have said the plutonium pits will last for hundreds of years.” ’ ’   Indeed, the US’’s stocks of Minuteman III ICBMs, despite their   age, are ”exquisite machinery, incredible things.” ’ ’   ”Russia’’s nuclear weapons are newer, true,” Lewis said, ”but they   reflect the design philosophy that says, ’’No reason to make it   super fancy because we’’ll just rebuild it in 10 years. ’’” ’ ”   The philosophical differences don’t end there. ” ’   ”Russians love to put missiles on trucks,” said Lewis, while the   US prefers   silos, which present a reliable target and   lack mobility. During the height of the Cold War, the US at one   point tried a   ICBM, but US safety and durability   requirements far exceeded that of the Russians, rendering the   platform unreasonable. ’ ’   ”If you look at the truck [the US] built for missiles, it’’s 10   times more expensive. It’’s   and way less   vulnerable,” Lewis said. ”We   the thing.” ’ ’  ’ ’   The US ”can’’t do things the Russians did because we’’re not going   to put missiles on a crappy truck,” said Lewis. Meanwhile, the   Russian philosophy relies on sneakiness and achieving a threat   without breaking the bank. ’ ’   ”Good luck trying to find it  —   it doesn’’t have to be   ” Lewis said of the Russians’’ idea of missile trucks. ’ ’   The US ”likes things that are reliable, things that can be   maintained, things that you have to really train people to do,”   Lewis said. This difference stems from the people who make up the   US military and how they differ from the Russians. ’ ’   ”  officers are the core of [the US] military,”   said Lewis. ”They’’ve been around a long time. That’’s why we’’re   way better than the Russians, who still have conscripts.” ’ ”   It’s that professionalism at the core of the US military that   makes America a different kind of world power. The US prefers   accuracy over destructive capability. ” ’   ”We love accuracy,” Lewis said  —   the US’’s ideal nuke is ”a tiny   little nuclear weapon we’’ll fly right through the window and blow   up the building.” Meanwhile, the Russians would rather put 10   warheads on the building and level the whole city, civilians and   all. ’ ’   ”You see it in Syria  —   that’’s how they show it off,” Lewis said   of Russia’’s air campaign in Syria, where Moscow has been accused   of using cluster bombs and incendiary munitions, and of   indiscriminately bombing hospitals and refugee camps. This kind   of careless and brutal attitude is a defining trait of Russia’’s   military. ’ ’   For instance, Russia’’s leaked   nuclear ”doomsday” weapon,   a ”robotic  ” that can make 100 knots with a range   of 6, 200 miles, is a   dirty bomb. The bomb would not   only nuke, but also turn the waters around a harbor radioactive   for years to come. The US never even considers this kind of   devastation, and it doesn’’t want to. ’ ’  ’ ’   Russia’’s nuclear ambitions, as shown in its nuclear arms, are   ”deeply, deeply, deeply immoral,” Lewis said. ’ ’   ”That’’s why [Americans are] the good guys.” ’ ’   Lewis said the US really can’’t defend against Russia’’s most   advanced, diabolical nuclear weapons, as ”the problem is just   that the math never works.” ’ ”   A Russian nuclear ICBM would blast into orbit, turn around, and   break into individual reentry vehicles, which would drive toward   their individual targets at Mach 23. The US simply can’t afford   or design a system that would destroy 10 nuclear warheads   traveling at that   speed toward the US. ” ’   The US has ”never scaled a missile defense to the size of a   Russian attack. It sounds like a really great idea on paper, but   when you’’re looking at 1, 000 warheads  …    ” he said, trailing off. ’ ’   Another possible solution would be to destroy the missiles before   they exit the atmosphere, but that means shooting them down over   Russia, which presents its own problems. ’ ’  ’ ’   Another would be to destroy the missiles from satellites in   space, but according to Lewis, the US would have to increase its   satellite launches twelvefold before it had enough space assets   to protect the country. ’ ’  ’ ’   Instead of spending years and trillions of dollars  —   and   escalating an arms race  —   the US relies on a doctrine known as   mutually assured destruction, or MAD. ’ ’   Lewis said that in the days of John F. Kennedy, the US puzzled   over how to size its nuclear arsenal. The Kennedy administration   decided to build enough nukes to destroy the Soviet Union if   necessary. The administration named the doctrine ”assured   destruction,” but critics pointed out that nuclear salvos would   be traveling both ways, so the more apt name, intended as an   insult to Kennedy’’s policy, was ”mutually assured destruction.” ’ ’   ”There was no real theory of victory,” said Lewis. ’ ’   Russian President Vladimir Putin once said Russia could destroy   the US in ”” using its overblown   doomsday devices. But the fact is that US Minuteman III rockets   that would vaporize the Kremlin seconds later. ’ ’  ’ ’   The US finds it most stabilizing to have a nuclear triad, or   three varieties of nuclear weapons available at any time.   Submarines,   silos, and bomber planes all hold nuclear   missiles. No attack from Russia could simultaneously neutralize   all three. Nothing could stop the US from retaliating, and   nothing would. ’ ”   The US’s nuclear weapons are not doomsday devices that would   almost certainly initiate the apocalypse. ” ’   Precise, professionally maintained, responsibly kept nuclear arms   provide the US with a credible deterrent without needlessly   endangering billions of lives. ’