’  ’ ”   Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte’s rhetoric on a number of   issues has   during his six months in office. ” ’   He has vacillated on his stance toward   ties,   alternately  the Obama administration and    the incoming Trump administration. ’ ’   Domestically, he has gone    repeatedly suggesting imposing it before backing off. ’ ’   Duterte returned to the subject this week, bemoaning the   constitutional limits on how the Philippine president could deal   with security threats like war. ’ ’   ”If you have martial law, only one person should be in control,”   Duterte  during a visit to the northern   Philippines on Thursday. ’ ’   ”If there’’s invasion or war and I declare martial law, I cannot   proceed on and on to deal with the trouble as I still have to go   to Congress, go to the Supreme Court,” he added,  to AFP. ”That’’s why that needs to   be replaced.” ’ ”   Under current Philippine law, the president can declare martial   law for up to 60 days, but within 48 hours he or she would have   to submit a report to the congress, which could then revoke   it. The Supreme Court can review the declaration’s legality   and must issue a decision within 30 days. ” ’   Those restrictions were put in place with a new constitution    a year after millions of   Filipinos went into the streets to demand dictator Ferdinand   Marcos be removed from power in a movement called the ”People   Power” revolution. ’ ’  ’ ”   Marcos imposed martial law from 1972 to 1981 to fight crime   and a communist insurgency, but governments since have  thousands were killed and tortured   during Marcos’ reign. ” ’   The Marcos legacy makes martial law an incendiary topic in the   Philippines, and Duterte  —   who has repeatedly  and said    if ISIS   arrives in the Philippines  —   has raised alarm by flirting with   it. ’ ”   In March,   Benigno Aquino  Duterte’s campaign promises would put   him a step away from being a dictator. Duterte  by invoking his   mother’s experiences under Marcos. ” ’  ’ ’   Bonifacio Ilagan, who was jailed and tortured during Marcos’’     period, told AFP that Duterte’’s references to martial   law could be a ”” in order to assess public   opinion as a prelude to making moves to amend the constitution. ’ ”   Duterte has allies who control the country’s congress. ” ’   They have backed his proposal to bring together a ”constitutional   assembly” to change the centralized government to a federal   one prior to the end of his term in 2022,  to AFP. ’ ”   Ilagan  that assembly would have the power to   amend the president’s   powers, but he cast doubt on   how that would be received. ” ’   ”I honestly believe the people will resist,” he . ’ ”   Despite the controversial context of Duterte’s     musings, they have mostly remained in the background   amid his ongoing battle against the drug trade in the   Philippines. ” ’   Since he took office in July, about 6, 000 people have been slain   in   killings  —   only about   have been   in police operations, raising fears of vigilante activity or   of an   campaign. ’ ’   The vicious crackdown Duterte has inspired and the harassment his   critics have faced lead some to suggest that while there is no de   jure declaration of martial law, it exists in de facto status. ’ ’  ’ ’   ”It is not necessary that you have a declaration of martial law   to have martial law,” Bishop Broderick Pabillo, who works in the   northwest Manila slum of Tondo, where many drug suspects have   been killed,  AFP. ’ ’   Duterte may back off his Thursday comments in the coming days, as   he has done  in the recent past. But his   wavering is no comfort for some of his countrymen. ’ ’   ”He said a few days ago that martial law was stupid and didn’’t   work, and yet now he says something else,” Sen. Francis   Pangilinan, a critic of Duterte,  AFP. ”His lack of clarity is a serious   cause for concern.” ’