’  ’ ’     Donald Trump on Friday fawned over a Christmas   letter he received from Russian President Vladimir Putin. ’ ’   The   announced in a statement he received a ”very   nice letter” from the Russian president, and that Putin’’s   ”thoughts are so correct.” ’ ’   ”I hope both sides are able to live up to these thoughts,” Trump   wrote, ”and we do not have to travel an alternate path. ’ ’   Trump did not make clear what an alternate path would be, but the   letter came amid increased tension between the two countries and   as the two leaders have both called for their nations to increase   the capabilities of their nuclear weapons programs. ’ ’   In the letter, dated December 15 but released by Trump on Friday,   Putin extended his ”warmest Christmas and New Year greetings” to   ”his excellency Donald Trump” and offered ”sincere wishes to you   and your family of sound health, happiness, well being, success,   and all the best.” ’ ’   ”Serious global and regional challenges, which our countries have   to face in recent years, show that the relations between Russia   and the US remain an important factor in ensuring stability and   security of the modern world,” Putin wrote. ’ ’   The Russian president continued: ”I hope that after you assume   the position of the president of the United States of America we   will be able  —   by acting in a constructive and pragmatic manner  —     to take real steps to restore the framework of bilateral   cooperation in different areas as well as bring out level of   collaboration on the international scene to a qualitatively new   level.” ’ ”   Trump’s release of the letter came as   relations have   tensed in recent days. ” ’   President Barack Obama spent much of his   press   conference last week  warning the   country that the US ”can do stuff” to it. US intelligence   agencies have assessed that Russia was attempting to intervene in   the US election through hacks with the goal of assisting Trump to   victory. ’ ’   On Wednesday,  almost all communication   channels between Moscow and the US were frozen. ’ ’   And on Thursday, Putin boasted about the strength of his   military, claiming it was more powerful than any potential   aggressor. Trump  said the US must ”expand its   nuclear capability” until ”the world comes to its senses.” ’ ’  ’