MILWAUKEE  —   A Milwaukee police officer fatally shot a man in August just after the man had thrown his gun away and lay on the ground unarmed, the authorities said on Thursday as they charged the officer with homicide. The officer, Dominique   24, killed Sylville K. Smith, 23, seconds after Mr. Smith fled on foot after a traffic stop. The shooting set off two nights of rioting here. Police officials have said that Mr. Smith was carrying a stolen handgun with a   magazine, and that he pointed it at the officer before the officer fired. But the criminal complaint filed on Thursday gives a somewhat different picture, based on video recorded by body cameras worn by Officer   and his partner. That video has not been made public. In the video, Mr. Smith “turns his head and upper body toward the officers,” according to an investigator’s affidavit cited in the complaint. “He then raises the gun upward while looking in the direction of the officers and throws the gun over the fence into the yard. ” As Mr. Smith was raising the gun, the complaint says, Officer   fired his own weapon, the bullet passed through Mr. Smith’s arm and Mr. Smith fell on his back. “  is observed standing a short distance from Smith with his weapon pointed down at Smith when   discharges a second shot from his weapon,” the complaint says. Mr. Smith was hit in the chest. The Milwaukee County district attorney’s office charged Mr.   who was fired in October, with   reckless homicide, which is punishable by up to 60 years in prison. The case was investigated by the State Department of Justice. Several   police shootings in Wisconsin have spurred protests in recent years, including the 2014 death of Dontre Hamilton, a black man who was shot 14 times by a white officer the officer was dismissed, but not charged with a crime. Mr. Smith, who had an extensive arrest record, was black, as is Mr.   but many residents viewed the shooting in the context of a history of excessive force by the Milwaukee police against black people. “We appreciate that the district attorney has shown independence and sound judgment in prosecuting the officer who shot and killed Sylville,” Mr. Smith’s family said in a statement released by their lawyer. “We also appreciate that this is but the first step in holding that officer accountable, but a necessary step in bringing some measure of justice. ” Fred Royal, president of the Milwaukee chapter of the N. A. A. C. P. said it was “surprising” but heartening that an officer had been charged in a fatal shooting here. “It’s a beginning, I guess,” Mr. Royal said. “It’s been a real frustration here that these types of charges have not been filed against officers in several incidents that have occurred. ” Mr. Royal also criticized the authorities for not releasing the body camera footage. “To think that a community does not have the capacity to fully appreciate what they see on a video, in this day and age, is just egregious in my perspective,” Mr. Royal said. Mayor Tom Barrett said he also favored the release of the videos, which he said he has not seen. “I think it’s important to note that the evidence that the district attorney based his decision on was primarily provided by the cameras, the body cameras that were worn by the Milwaukee police,” he said. Officer   was placed on desk duty after the shooting. In October, he was charged with sexual assault and other offenses unrelated to the shooting, and the Police Department fired him on Oct. 31. On paper, he had seemed like the ideal recruit for a department trying to build bridges to the communities it serves: a young   man, an aspiring rapper who graduated from a public high school on Milwaukee’s north side. But a number of questions have emerged about Mr.  ’s character, and whether the Police Department missed a pattern of troubling behavior. One rap video obtained by the local media appears to show Mr.   saying that he would “start a riot like Baltimore. ” Records also show that his probationary period as an officer was extended, though it was unclear why. David B. Owens, a lawyer for the Smith family, said in an interview on Thursday that he wanted more information. “It raises real questions, like ‘How could you hire a guy like this? ’” he said. “And should there have been obvious red flags when the city of Milwaukee decided to hire him? Should he have been on a shorter leash given those red flags?” Mr.  ’s lawyers, who said they had not seen the videos, declined to speak in detail about the charges. “Reading the four corners of the criminal complaint” said one of the lawyers, Steven R. Kohn, “it would certainly seem that there are arguments to be had about what happened here and whether a crime was committed. ” The president of the local police union did not respond to messages seeking comment. The New York Times requested Mr.  ’s personnel file more than six weeks ago, but the records have not yet been released. An officer said this week that the documents were not likely to be ready until after the holidays. Mr.   has been in jail since October, after he was charged with two counts of sexual assault, as well as hiring prostitutes and illegally recording nudity. In one incident, the night after he killed Mr. Smith, prosecutors said that he arranged to meet a man at a bar, where they watched television coverage of the rioting and drank heavily, and the officer “bragged about being able to do whatever” he wanted “without repercussions. ” Later that night, the man said, Mr.   sexually assaulted him after getting him drunk. The next morning, according to prosecutors, Mr.   dropped the man off at a hospital and texted a superior officer that he had messed up “big time” and needed “to handle this the most secret and right way possible. ” Mr. Owens said that the homicide charge was “a first major step at getting accountability. ” He said Mr. Smith’s family, which has declined interview requests, was continuing to grieve.