After nearly a century of delays and disappointment, the first phase of the Second Avenue subway is finally opening to the public on Jan. 1, officials at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said on Monday. Trains will begin to run on the new line at noon on Jan. 1, 2017, the authority said in a statement. At an event to reveal the artwork at the new stations, the authority’s chairman, Thomas F. Prendergast, invited the crowd to ride the line on opening day. “I think you’ll find the art there exhilarating,” Mr. Prendergast said. “I think you’ll find the environment vastly different than what you see in the New York City subway, and you’ll be pleased I think with the end product. ” Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who has been pressing officials to open the line by the end of the year, said local leaders would take a ceremonial ride on the Second Avenue line on New Year’s Eve and perhaps toast the opening of the   project with champagne. But Mr. Prendergast fumbled the   announcement of an opening date, saying in the morning that the line would open at 6:04 a. m. on Jan. 1. A statement from the authority came later in the afternoon, correcting the start time and leading some to joke on Twitter that the project had been delayed yet again  —   by about six hours. A spokeswoman for the authority, Beth DeFalco, said the chairman misspoke and that 6 a. m. was in fact when trains would run on the first weekday it was open on Jan. 2. The new subway route is an extension of the Q line, which currently ends near the southern edge of Central Park at 57th Street and Seventh Avenue. Starting in January, Q trains will travel to an upgraded station at Lexington Avenue and 63rd Street and to three new stations at 72nd, 86th and 96th Streets. Planning for a Second Avenue subway line has advanced in fits and starts for decades. The first phase to 96th Street, which cost about $4. 4 billion, will be the most ambitious expansion of New York City’s subway system in a  . Over the weekend, the Second Avenue stations began to appear on subway maps on trains in New York City. The first phase is expected to initially carry about 200, 000 riders each day and will ease overcrowding on the crowded No. 4, 5, and 6 lines along Lexington Avenue, officials said. The first Q train will leave the station at 57th Street and Seventh Avenue, heading uptown to the new stations, at noon on Jan. 1, the authority’s statement said. Trains will run every six minutes during peak hours. For the first week, trains will run only between 6 a. m. and 10 p. m. Overnight service will start on Jan. 9. The authority, which is effectively controlled by Mr. Cuomo, had set a deadline to open the first phase of the line by Dec. 31, but delays with escalators and elevators threatened to push back the date. Officials at the authority said workers were able to finish final testing at the stations more quickly than they expected. The authority is in the initial planning stages for the second phase of the line, which would extend it to 125th Street in Harlem. But the project will cost billions of dollars and take years to build, and plans to extend the line south to Lower Manhattan are less certain. Officials first announced plans for a Second Avenue line in 1929, but the Great Depression halted that effort. In another push in the 1970s, several groundbreakings were held, but the work was stopped when the city nearly went bankrupt. The latest campaign began in the 1990s, and construction began again in 2007. Gene Russianoff, the longtime leader of the Straphangers Campaign, a riders advocacy group, has witnessed many of the false starts and delays over the years. He is looking forward to visiting the new stations, along with the crowds of transit enthusiasts who are expected to flock there in January. “For subway buffs, this is like the Grand Canyon,” he said. “There’s a lot of it, and there’s a lot to explore. ”