Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) Last week we announced an inaugural “Californian of the Year” contest, and asked readers to write in with nominations. Emails poured into our inbox, with names of politicians, environmentalists, homeless advocates and sports figures, among others. A number of entries were personal in nature. Some workers suggested their bosses (lucky you). One man nominated his father, who died this year. To create a roster of finalists, we included people who were mentioned more than a handful of times, then added some wild cards for good measure. They are, in alphabetical order: • Andy Bales. The C. E. O. of Union Rescue Mission has dedicated his life to helping the homeless in Los Angeles. • Marc Benioff. The Salesforce C. E. O. has made philanthropy a central part of the company’s mission. • Barbara Boxer. The Democratic senator is retiring after 34 years of representing California in Congress. • Jerry Brown. California’s   governor has pushed ambitious agendas. • Nicole Capretz. The Climate Action Campaign founder is a force in environmental advocacy in San Diego. • Betty Chinn. Known as the Chinese Mother Teresa, she has been a lifeline to Eureka’s homeless. • Kamala Harris. California’s new senator is seen as having a bright future on the national and state stages. • Colin Kaepernick. The 49ers quarterback’s national anthem protest polarized fans and incited debate. • Elon Musk. The serial entrepreneur seems to embody the creative daring of Silicon Valley. • Vin Scully (see below). As for me, I’m going with Mr. Scully, the gentlemanly broadcaster who retired in October after 67 years as the voice of Dodgers baseball. As the Los Angeles Times sportswriter Bill Plaschke put it, Mr. Scully “is the soundtrack of our lives, the dignified and graceful accompaniment of endless sandy summers, a daily harmonic reminder of the Southern California dream. ” After the results are in, we’ll reveal a winner by the end of the year. • The cost of the 405 highway project in Los Angeles has now reached $1. 6 billion. Was it worth it? [The New York Times] • California’s largest pension fund moved to lower its investment forecast. That means higher contributions from taxpayers are coming. [Sacramento Bee] • California’s Supreme Court halted a   measure that would have sped up death penalty appeals. [The Associated Press] • Lawyers for Derick Ion Almena said the Ghost Ship warehouse leader “should not be made a scapegoat” for Oakland’s deadly Dec. 2 fire. [East Bay Times] • The body of a former reality television contestant who went missing was found at a Los Angeles area home. An arrest was made. [Los Angeles Times] • A Los Angeles deputy police chief was chosen to head the San Francisco Police Department. Watchdogs welcomed an outsider. [San Francisco Chronicle] • In the race to develop   cars, Michigan is suddenly aiming to give Silicon Valley a run for its money. [The New York Times] • Twitter is losing another executive. This time, the chief technology officer is departing. [The New York Times] • The Bay Area has 38 of the country’s 100 most expensive ZIP codes, a survey found. [KQED] • DeMarcus Cousins of the Sacramento Kings was fined $50, 000 for his behavior toward reporters. “My actions were inexcusable,” he said. [Sacramento Bee] • A producer of the blockbuster epic “The Great Wall” rejected accusations that casting Matt Damon was “whitewashing. ” [The New York Times] • A tour of six ultracreative restaurants in Los Angeles strip malls. [The New York Times] • A libations columnist offered a list of the best 25 California wines that he tasted this year. [Orange County Register] Does the Bay Area have a superiority complex? James Hetfield seems to think so. During a recent interview on the comedian Joe Rogan’s podcast, the Metallica frontman said the region’s “elitist attitude” played a part in his family’s decision to leave their longtime home in Marin County and move to Vail, Colo. “I kind of got sick of the Bay Area, the attitudes of people there,” he said. Mr. Hetfield, 53, cited his love of hunting as one point of friction. “They talk about how diverse they are and things like that,” he told Mr. Rogan. “And it’s fine if you’re diverse like them. But showing up with a deer on the bumper doesn’t fly in Marin County. ” San Francisco has topped a number of rankings of cities for “snobbery,” as have several other Bay Area locations. The reputation was even parodied (in gross fashion) during a 2006 episode of “South Park” titled “Smug Alert!” Mr. Hetfield had other conflicts in Marin County. He once angered fellow residents by erecting a fence on his property near San Rafael that blocked a popular trail. In his conversation with Mr. Rogan, he said he fit in better in Colorado, where his wife, Francesca, grew up. “In Colorado everyone is very natural,” he said. Writing in SFist in 2013, the San Francisco journalist Rose Garrett acknowledged that the city’s residents are at times guilty of an air of superiority. She added: “But that’s only because we’ve got a good thing going, and we know it. ” California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.