BERLIN  —   Anis Amri, a Tunisian man who turned 24 on Thursday, is the chief suspect in a   investigation into Germany’s worst terrorist attack in decades. His fingerprints and identity document were found inside a   that plowed into a Christmas market in Berlin on Monday, killing 12 people and injuring about 50 more. Here is a timeline of events in Mr. Amri’s life, drawn from government statements, interviews with officials and relatives, and news media accounts. Dec. 22, 1992: Mr. Amri is born in Oueslatia, a town in the midwest region of Tunisia, the youngest in a family of five sisters and four brothers. He drops out of secondary school at 14, and gains a reputation for drinking, partying and playing music. March 2011: Mr. Amri leaves with three friends by boat for Italy a few months after the start of the political uprising that overthrows Tunisia’s longtime president. He is later convicted in absentia by a Tunisian court for stealing a car, and sentenced to five years in prison. October   2015: Mr. Amri is arrested in Belpasso, Italy  —   a small town on the east coast of Sicily  —   and is sentenced to four years in prison for causing a fire, damaging property and making threats, according to the Italian Justice Ministry. Local news outlets report that three Tunisian asylum seekers, including a    with the initials A. A. were arrested for setting fire to the center where they were staying, to protest poor living conditions and delays in the processing of their asylum claims. Italian prison records show he spent nearly four years in a total of six prisons. July 2015: Mr. Amri enters Germany. According to Ralf Jäger, the interior minister of North   Germany’s most populous state, Mr. Amri is “highly mobile” over the next few months, passing through Freiburg, a city in the southwest, Berlin, and North  . February 2016: Mr. Amri settles in Berlin, according to Mr. Jäger. His sisters said he finds work in construction and as a cook. March 14, 2016: Authorities in Berlin open a file on Mr. Amri because, according to the Berlin state prosecutor, of “indications from the federal security authorities” that he was a potential threat. Mr. Amri had evidently planned a robbery to get money to buy automatic weapons, “possibly in order to carry out an attack,” the prosecutor said. Undercover surveillance, including electronic monitoring of Mr. Amri’s movements, begins. The surveillance leads the authorities to believe that Mr. Amri is involved in drug dealing in the city’s notorious Görlitzer Park. Prosecutors said that, at one point, he got into a fight in a bar after a quarrel with another dealer. April 2016: Mr. Amri reportedly makes a formal application for asylum in Germany. June 2016: Mr. Amri is ordered deported. But, according to Mr. Jäger, he cannot be sent back to Tunisia because the country does not acknowledge that he is a citizen and he does not have a valid passport. July 30, 2016:  Police in a town on the border with Switzerland detain Mr. Amri after checking the documents of passengers on a bus heading for Zurich. Given the deportation order, and the fact that it is a Saturday, a court orders Mr. Amri held for 48 hours in a jail in the town of Friedrichshafen, on Lake Constance. Aug. 1, 2016: Mr. Amri is released early, according to the director of the jail, Thomas Mönig, on the order of the office responsible for dealing with foreigners in Kleve  —   in the far northwest of Germany  —   because it has no way to carry out the deportation. He gives his address as being in Karlsruhe, about 125 miles from Friedrichshafen. September 2016: The monitoring of Mr. Amri ends, for reasons that are not clear. Nov. 8, 2016: German authorities detain Abu Walaa, a Salafist preacher known as the “man without a face” because he never faces the camera when delivering video sermons, and a   identified as Boban S. German media reports say Mr. Amri was a guest several times at Boban S. ’s home. Dec. 19, 2016:  Shortly after 8 p. m. a truck apparently hijacked by Mr. Amri careens into the Christmas market in Breitscheidplatz, a main public square in Berlin. Among the 12 people killed in the market are the Polish driver of the truck, whose body is found inside the cab an Israeli visitor and an Italian working in Berlin. Dec. 21, 2016: In the Dutch city of Nijmegen  —   it is not yet clear how he got there  —   Mr. Amri gets a free cellphone SIM card from a company that is handing them out at shopping malls. In Germany that evening, a warrant is issued for his arrest a reward of 100, 000 euros, or about $104, 000, is offered for information leading to his capture. Meanwhile, the Tunisian passport for Mr. Amri that the German authorities said was necessary for him to be deported finally arrives, months after it was requested. Dec. 22, 2016: The authorities conduct raids at several homes associated with Mr. Amri, as well as a Muslim cultural center and prayer room. They also search a bus in Heilbronn, a city in southwestern Germany. The federal prosecutor’s office announces that Mr. Amri’s fingerprints were found on the driver’s door of the truck and on the   one of the upright structural supports on the side of the cab. Dec. 23, 2016: Mr. Amri shoots and wounds an Italian police officer in Sesto San Giovanni, a suburb north of Milan, after he is asked to show identification papers. In the gunfight, he is shot and killed. He had traveled there by train from Lyon, in central France, passing through Chambéry, France Turin, in northwestern Italy and the Central Station in Milan, where he arrived around 1 a. m. before making his way to Sesto San Giovanni.