Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • Israel said  it would move ahead with thousands of new homes in East Jerusalem, undeterred by the United Nations Security Council’s vote last week to condemn its settlement construction. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has curbed diplomatic contacts with Security Council countries, said “we do not turn the other cheek. ” The Israeli right is pushing Mr. Netanyahu to abandon the idea of a Palestinian state alongside Israel. _____ • Russia is cultivating an array of   extremist groups across Europe in an effort to destabilize or simply disorient the European Union. Reaching out to fringe elements costs little and sometimes pays off, as it did in Hungary, where the   group Jobbik is now the country’s leading opposition party. _____ • Battlefield losses have not diminished the Islamic State’s power to inspire mayhem around the world, as the attack on a Christmas market in Berlin made clear last week. Our reporter went on an Air Force jet that hunts for Islamic State targets in Syria. _____ • We also visited Diyarbakir, the informal Kurdish capital in Turkey, where resentment against the state lingers after fighting this year and recent moves to curb Kurdish power. Asylum applications from Turkey in Germany tripled this year, as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s crackdown continues after a failed coup in July. On Sunday, a judge ordered the arrest of a cafeteria manager for saying he would not serve tea to the president. _____ • With pressure mounting over his possible conflicts of interest,   Donald J. Trump has said that he is formulating plans to extricate himself from his family’s business. Yet an examination of the company shows what a complex task that would be. President Obama said he would have defeated Mr. Trump had he run for a third term (which the Constitution does not permit). “NO WAY!” the   responded on Twitter. _____ • “I don’t want to be another cliché. ” The death of the pop superstar George Michael stunned both fans and the many people who knew him in England, where he spent most of his life. Mr. Michael “sang about wanting to be free often enough to make you wonder whether he thought any freedom was ever attainable,” our critic writes. _____ • The European Medicines Agency is likely to leave Britain  —   another casualty of the vote to leave the European Union, and one with worrying implications for the country’s vibrant biotech and pharmaceuticals sector. • The troubled Italian lender  Monte dei Paschi di Siena has a capital shortfall of 8. 8 billion euros, higher than previously estimated, the European Central Bank said. • The year’s best apps. Our picks include an    universe of NPR audio and an upgraded   app. • The Dow has risen 14. 4 percent this year, to 19, 933. 81. Just a few days remain for 2016 to claim the 20, 000 milestone. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Russia said it found the flight data recorder of the military plane that crashed into the Black Sea, killing all 92 on board. Moscow said it considered it unlikely that terrorism caused the crash. [The New York Times] • Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan will pay his respects at Pearl Harbor with President Obama today, but Mr. Abe’s gesture may not be as unprecedented as initially advertised. [The New York Times] • In Ukraine, several soldiers and separatists were reported killed in an escalation of fighting last week. [Kyiv Post] • The U. S. was the world’s leader in weapons sales last year, accounting for half of the entire global market. France was second. [The New York Times] • Human error is said to have caused the plane crash in Colombia last month that killed 71 people, including most of the Brazilian soccer team Chapocoense. [Associated Press] • In just over 49 days,  Thomas Coville, a Frenchman, sailed around the world alone. French officials call it a world record. [Associated Press] • In Catalonia,  people climb on top of one another to create towers called castells, sometimes up to 10 tiers high. Watch one go up in our latest Daily 360 video. • Here’s how a German chef won the Liverpool soccer club over to individualized diets, locally and organically sourced foods, and compulsory four meals a day. • Hygge  —   the Danish word for cozy  —   has become such a phenomenon in Britain that the Collins Dictionary proclaimed it one of the top 10 words of 2016. • Travel advice: Airlines are wary of drones and other devices with powerful batteries. And they won’t be as delighted as you are with that virtual reality headset. • In memoriam: Léo Marjane, whose ballad “Alone Tonight” became a signature song of occupied France, and S. Newman Darby, the inventor of the sailboard, have died. • In the American Midwest,  many people will tell you about a beloved holiday tradition that arrived from Germany: the Weihnachtsgurke, or Christmas Pickle. There’s just one snag: It is all but unknown in Germany. Christmas is over, but reminders of the holiday are most likely scattered around your home and office, or perhaps hiding inside a coat pocket. We’re talking about candy canes, whose ubiquity is matched by the legends surrounding their creation. One tale dates the candy to 1670, when a choirmaster at a cathedral in Cologne, Germany, needed a way to keep children entertained during long Christmas services. He asked a local confectioner to bend hard candy into the shape of a shepherd’s cane. About 200 years later, a   immigrant is said to have brought the tradition to America, decorating his Christmas tree with the canes, which were all white. In 1920, a Georgia candy maker developed a way to   colors into the canes, giving them their traditional red and white look, according to one account. The sweets were already popular then, and today they are part of a seasonal candy juggernaut that rakes in over $7 billion a year, according to an industry trade group. So what to do with the extra peppermint sticks? Perhaps crush them to use on ice cream or cookies. Or save them: Not only has the candy been around for centuries, it can last up to three years. Remy Tumin contributed reporting. ____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes. com.