The Golden State Warriors have been defined by   artistic ball movement and underrated defense. But at their core, they may be powered by something more abstract: an ability to motivate themselves just when they are being doubted. With the playoffs set to begin on Saturday and the Warriors coming in as heavy favorites after winning a record 73 games, the question is whether a tightly knit group of players that has come to dominate basketball the last two years can keep that edge through the next two months. In all likelihood, they can. Just consider how the regular season concluded: After a shocking home loss to the Minnesota Timberwolves on April 5 left the Warriors with a   record, Golden State needed to win its last four games to break the   mark established by the Michael   Chicago Bulls in the   season. Because two of those last four games would come against a very tough Spurs team, including one in San Antonio, where Golden State had not won since 1997, the consensus seemed to be that the Warriors would fall short  —   especially with Warriors Coach Steve Kerr talking about the importance of resting key players before the playoffs. But Draymond Green, Golden State’s   forward and emotional leader, had other ideas. He became intensely vocal about his desire to get the wins record, and pressure from him and Stephen Curry seemed to get to Kerr, who allowed his starters to keep playing as long as the Warriors kept winning. And they did, including a difficult victory in San Antonio that broke the Spurs’ seasonlong home winning streak. The rest was history, as the   Warriors snatched the wins record and Curry almost assuredly locked up his second consecutive Most Valuable Player Award. Now comes the postseason. Can anyone really challenge this Warriors team and somehow rattle it? The Cleveland Cavaliers, despite the murmurs of internal strife, can never be discounted as long as LeBron James is around. The Spurs had one of the best   teams in N. B. A. history, even if it went somewhat unnoticed. Still, if the Warriors, a team perfectly constructed to succeed in this era, play to their potential, it is hard to see any team keeping up with them. Jalen Rose, a   N. B. A. veteran who will be providing playoff analysis for ESPN, said one of the biggest reasons for that is Curry’s killer instinct. Rose called Curry a “  assassin” and said Curry is set apart by his ability to maintain an edge as a defending champion and defending M. V. P. “He is not playing around,” Rose said. If Curry is looking for slights to motivate him, he may find one if he is not the first N. B. A. player unanimously named M. V. P. (Shaquille O’Neal and James have come the closest, each falling one vote short.) Chris Webber, a     who will be part of TNT’s broadcast team, said a few M. V. P. voters may choose someone other than Curry simply to be contrarian. “I don’t see how a true, humble basketball fan can vote against Steph,” Webber said. Curry is likely to be the dominant story line of the playoffs after leading the N. B. A. in scoring average along with total field goals,   and steals despite playing in the fourth quarter in just 60 of his 79 games. The Warriors complement him with incredible depth in Green, Klay Thompson and Andre Iguodala on a roster that is largely unchanged from last season. Asked to imagine a team that could compete with the Warriors, Rose said that the Spurs are contenders but that people should also consider the star power and depth of the Oklahoma City Thunder. Beyond Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook, the Thunder also have a defensive ace in Serge Ibaka and an   rotation at center in Steven Adams and Enes Kanter that can be remarkably effective. “If they’re clicking on all cylinders, I give them a punter’s chance obviously to put the kind of firepower out on the floor to go head to head with the Warriors four quarters,” Rose said, while acknowledging that Oklahoma City struggled in the fourth quarter this season. The quality of Oklahoma City’s front line could be a pivotal issue if it should face Golden State. Rose cited points in the paint as the Warriors’ biggest weakness and said teams would be wise to attack them inside. “While they defend really well, one of the best in the league, they’re short,” Rose said of Golden State’s   Death Lineup in which Green plays center. “Draymond Green, when they have that lineup out there, he’s   Harrison Barnes is   or   so you have to take advantage of that, try to get to the   line, get them in foul trouble. ” For now, the Warriors will focus on the Houston Rockets, whom they beat in five games in last season’s Western Conference finals. It is a matchup that may not extend any longer this time around. But if an uninspiring   matchup was not providing the team with the proper motivation, Jordan may have inadvertently put the chip right back on Golden State’s shoulder. When the Warriors broke the Bulls’ record earlier this week, Jordan issued a statement of congratulations. But he also included a line that seemed to be part jab and part reminder that their legacy is not yet secure. “I look forward to seeing what they do in the playoffs,” he said. For Curry and Green, that may be enough of a challenge to carry them all the way.