FLINT, Mich.  —   Three government workers were charged with crimes on Wednesday for their roles in this city’s water crisis, accused in part of covering up evidence of lead contamination. The workers  —   an employee of Flint and two state workers assigned to monitor water quality in cities  —   are the first to face criminal charges in connection with the failures that left residents of this city drinking foul and unsafe water for many months. In announcing the charges, some of which are felonies carrying penalties of as much as five years in prison, Bill Schuette, the Michigan attorney general, answered skeptics in Flint and elsewhere who had openly doubted that anyone would ever be held accountable for the health crisis here. Emails and other documents have shown a cascading series of failures at every level of government  —   local, state and federal  —   and Mr. Schuette, a Republican who is widely seen as a possible candidate for governor in 2018, emphasized that his investigation, begun in January, was far from over. “These charges are only the beginning,” Mr. Schuette said. “There will be more to come  —   that I can guarantee you. ” The charges against the three defendants  —   Michael Prysby, a district engineer with the State Department of Environmental Quality Stephen Busch, a district supervisor in the same department and Michael Glasgow, the city’s utilities manager  —   included tampering with evidence contained in reports on lead levels in city water, and the two state officials were also charged with conspiracy to tamper with evidence. Mr. Prysby and Mr. Busch were arraigned later on Wednesday, court records show. Lawyers for the three men could not be reached for comment. Among other things, the workers were accused of distorting the results by directing residents to run their water before it was tested and failing to collect samples from some houses they were required to test. That had the effect of making the levels of lead in the water supply appear far less dangerous than they were, and falsely reassured officials who could have intervened months earlier, as well as residents, that the water was safe. The disaster has left Flint residents fearful about the lasting effects of lead on the city’s youngest children, distrustful of the promises of the authorities and reliant on filters and bottled water. Some have questioned whether this economically distressed, majority black city of fewer than 100, 000 residents will ever get justice. The charges against relatively   officials were being viewed as a promising initial step, but by no means a final answer. “We want the complete story,” Karen Weaver, the recently elected mayor of Flint, said after listening to details of the charges from the front row of a news conference with prosecutors and investigators here. “This is the start to that. ” Some residents pointedly alluded to Gov. Rick Snyder. Asked whether Mr. Snyder would face charges, Mr. Schuette said, “There’s no target, and no one’s off the table. ” Ellis Stafford, a Flint native and an investigator on the team Mr. Schuette assigned to investigate what happened in Flint, choked up as he addressed the failed water system  —   and the broken trust in government that has come from it. “It really hurts,” he said. “I have friends, personal close friends. They live here. They look at me and they wonder if there’s any truth to this investigation. I hope I gave them some. ” He went on to say, “I told one of my friends, ‘You might not believe in government or the state, but believe in me. ’” The three men face a total of 13 charges, a mix of felonies and misdemeanors. The state workers have been suspended without pay, Mr. Snyder said late Wednesday. Mr. Glasgow has been placed on administrative leave, Ms. Weaver said. The charges are linked to the handling of a change in the city’s water supply two years ago and to the aftermath of that change, including a failure to add chemicals that reduce corrosion inside pipes. The resulting problems led to Flint residents’ exposure to water contaminated with lead and possibly linked to a deadly outbreak of Legionnaire’s disease. David M. Uhlmann, who was chief of the environmental crimes section at the Justice Department from 2000 to 2007, and who is a law professor at the University of Michigan, said such charges were rare. ”It’s extremely unusual and maybe unprecedented for state and local officials to be charged with criminal drinking water violations,” he said. Mr. Busch and Mr. Prysby, the state officials, were charged with misconduct in office, a felony, for “willfully and knowingly misleading” the federal Environmental Protection Agency and the Genesee County Health Department about dangers posed by the water. Mr. Prysby was also charged with misconduct in office for authorizing use of the Flint plant, “knowing that the Flint water treatment plant was deficient in its ability to provide clean and safe drinking water. ” Each of those charges carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $10, 000 fine. Each of the tampering charges is a felony punishable by up to four years and $10, 000. Mr. Prysby and Mr. Busch each face two misdemeanor charges of violating the state’s Safe Drinking Water Act by failing to order anticorrosion treatment of the water, and for telling residents to run, or “preflush,” their taps before samples were taken for lead testing, creating misleadingly low readings. Each count carries a penalty of up to a year in prison, and a fine of up to $5, 000 for each day of violation. Mr. Glasgow also faces a misdemeanor charge of willful neglect of duty, with a maximum sentence of a year and a $1, 000 fine. At times, Mr. Glasgow has been seen as someone who tried to warn officials about his concerns over the water. Not long before Flint switched to a new water supply in 2014, Mr. Glasgow warned state officials that he believed the city was not fully ready to make the change and suggested, in an email  released as part of thousands of emails made public since the crisis began, that “people above” him were pushing to move too quickly. Mr. Snyder, a Republican who has apologized repeatedly for what happened in Flint but has also indicated that staff members failed for months to tell him about the gravity and dangers of the mounting situation, has faced the most intense criticism of his two terms over the issue, as well as calls for his resignation or recall. The city had switched to the troubled water system while under the control of an emergency financial manager, appointed by the governor to sort out Flint’s fiscal troubles. Last month, a panel appointed by the governor assigned most of the blame to state officials, citing “government failure, intransigence, unpreparedness, delay, inaction and environmental injustice. ” Mr. Snyder, who announced this week that he would drink Flint water for a month, said at a news conference on Wednesday that the charges were “deeply troubling and extremely serious. ” He said he had not yet been interviewed by the attorney general’s team, but that his office was cooperating with the investigation. Asked whether he believed he had committed a crime, Mr. Snyder said, “I don’t believe so. ” Along the streets here on Wednesday, some people questioned why Mr. Snyder was not being held to answer for the state’s failings. “Somebody knew about this at the top,” William McCraw, 64, said as he waited at a bus station in Flint. “They need to round them all up, everyone who knew. ” They also wondered aloud how criminal charges could now solve their continuing water and health problems. Researchers from Virginia Tech said recently that while Flint’s system was “on the path to recovery,” it remained a “  zone for lead in water. ” Nicole Woycik, a mother who worries about her    son’s behavioral changes and wonders about   effects the water may have on him, described the criminal charges as “a start. ” But, she added, “The charges will not bring a lot of closure, because we’re affected either way. ” Asked whether Flint was now beginning to heal, Ms. Weaver, the mayor, said the criminal charges were “part of getting it healed. ” The other part, she said, would be securing all of the money Flint needs to replace its aged water system.