I recently wrote about the Canadian triathlete Julie Miller, who was disqualified from the Ironman Canada race last summer and stripped of her   finish in her age group. Officials said it would have been impossible for her to complete the course as quickly as she claimed. Other athletes suspected her of cutting the course, possibly by failing to complete one of the laps in the   marathon, but no one could prove how she did it. Among other things, Miller finished the race without her timing chip, meaning that there was no information about her split times  —   interim times reflecting an athlete’s progress along the course. Miller emphatically denied the accusations. “I did not cheat in the Whistler Ironman competition,” she said in an email, “nor would I ever cheat or have I ever cheated in any competition. ” After The New York Times published the article, I was contacted by FinisherPix, a company that creates personal highlight videos for athletes competing in Ironman races using video from cameras positioned along the course. The company had six video cameras filming constantly along the marathon course at Ironman Canada  —   one at the start, four at the finish, and one at a point in the course that runners had to pass twice. FinisherPix shared its video with The Times to help determine whether Miller had completed the race fairly. The first camera was positioned at the start of the marathon, after athletes had finished cycling and were embarking on the next phase of the race. It shows Miller beginning her run exactly eight minutes behind Susanne Davis, a   triathlete who went on to win their age group, women ages 40 to 44, after Miller was disqualified. (Miller is identifiable by her bright   compression socks.) The second camera was positioned 3. 8 miles into the   course. Athletes were required to pass that point twice to complete the run, but the camera recorded Miller passing it only once  —   9 minutes 15 seconds before Davis passed it on her second lap. So, according to the video provided by FinisherPix, it appears that Miller skipped the first lap of the marathon course. We still have no way of knowing what she did during that time. But under this possible sequence of events, she   the race later, positioning herself far enough in the lead in her age group that she could go on to cross the finish line about five minutes ahead of Davis. I emailed Miller to tell her about the video and ask her if she could explain why it shows her passing the second camera just once. She did not respond.