Women’s shoe clearance! We’ve got your size! Save 20 percent! Macy’s has discount fever, and signs like these pepper its sprawling flagship store in Manhattan. But while shoppers love a sale, those discounts are coming at a steep price to Macy’s and the country’s other large department stores. “It’s poison,” said Mark Cohen, the director of retail studies at Columbia Business School. “They’ve created no motivation for consumers to respond to their promotions, since if you missed this week’s sale you just need to wait around until next week. ” Or not at all. Shoppers may be addicted to discounts, but not necessarily those at the leading department stores. This week, Macy’s, Nordstrom, Kohl’s and J. C. Penney all reported unexpectedly weak sales, driving their stocks sharply lower. The headwinds facing department stores are coming from several directions, including from online shopping. The companies’ earnings look especially bleak in comparison with the broad retail picture in the United States. On Friday, the government reported that overall retail spending had ticked higher in April. But the results this week reinforced the degree to which companies have failed to adjust to discount retail chains like Ross and the TJX companies, T. J. Maxx and Marshalls, which have spent years developing their niche and are attracting more people. “Consumers like that idea of getting a bargain,” said Neil Saunders, a retail analyst for Conlumino. “That certainly has been unhelpful to the department stores. ”   of course, is nothing new. But the hunt itself has changed. The economic collapse of 2008 forced many Americans to cling tighter to their purse strings, and forced many shoppers to more aggressively hunt for   options. That spurred many consumers toward     retailers like T. J. Maxx, Marshalls and Ross, where many have remained, according to Jharonne Martis, the director of consumer research for Thomson Reuters. “During the recession, they were a favorite among customers,” Ms. Martis said. A decade ago, Mr. Saunders said, there were sharper distinctions between the customers who shopped at Nordstrom and those who picked through the racks at   stores. In 2005, 5. 1 percent of shoppers who regularly used   retailers also shopped at department stores for clothing, he said. Last year, that figure rose to 12. 9 percent. “People that used   and discount channels tended to be a bit more isolated,” Mr. Saunders said. “Now, there’s a lot more customer sharing, and a lot more people who use department stores also use   retailers much more freely. ” The difference between the products offered at the different retailers is also getting blurry. Department stores and discount chains have sold increasingly similar products. Macy’s and Nordstrom may have once been associated with brands like Calvin Klein and Ralph Lauren, but those labels now frequently appear in the   aisles as well, Ms. Martis said. That has made department stores less of a destination, she said. Still, department stores are trying to match the demand for discount shopping, slashing prices and combining points in a frenzied attempt to keep up with an increasing variety of   rivals. But they have not done enough to stem the tide of losses. “When you have a significant amount of clearance, you dilute your own brand,” Ms. Martis said. “The department stores were built for a different decade. ” Macy’s and J. C. Penney declined to comment for this article. Nordstrom and Kohl’s could not be reached for comment. Ms. Martis and other retail analysts said that department stores had done a poor job of keeping up with younger consumers. Those shoppers are often   and generally less inclined to shop at the same stores that their parents once did. The promotions might do a good job of targeting people looking for low prices, but the brands sometimes do not. At Macy’s in Herald Square on Thursday, shoppers combed through entire rooms dedicated to discount shoes. But the assortment, however plentiful, may not have been for everyone. “They probably missed out on that whole sneaker thing,” said Jacqui Booker, 38, who had come to Macy’s to look at appliances. “The fact that they don’t sell a Jordan in here is probably keeping every kid away,” Ms. Booker said, referring to Air Jordan, Nike’s popular athletic shoe. On Friday, J. C. Penney reported a loss of 32 cents a share, and said that sales at stores open more than a year had fallen 0. 4 percent.   sales at Macy’s fell 5. 6 percent in the first quarter. Some department stores, like Nordstrom, have been aggressive about opening their own discount chains. But while business improved at Nordstrom’s discount division, Nordstrom Rack,   net sales fell 2. 2 percent. Also on Friday, the Commerce Department reported that retail sales rose 1. 3 percent in April, driven in large part by sales of automobiles and gas, along with online shopping. “The retail sales numbers underscore the shift, underscore the challenges department stores are having,” said Richard Jaffe, a managing director and retail analyst with Stifel Nicolaus. Amazon represents one of those main challenges. The online shopping giant has increasingly pulled consumers away from traditional    stores, and has shown every indication that it intends to grow. But while Amazon accounts for half of all   by some estimates, most shopping in the United States still happens in person. The problems at the larger department stores, Mr. Saunders argued, run deeper. “Amazon plays a big part of this, but it’s not the only part,” Mr. Saunders said. “I think retailers have to take some share of the blame themselves. ” Including, some might say, for their discounts. “I think at this point,” Ms. Booker said, “everyone that knows Macy’s knows that you go on Sale Wednesday. ”