A New York City police official was found dead on Friday in a car on Long Island, where he is believed to have shot himself, the authorities said. The official, Inspector Michael Ameri, the commanding officer of the Police Department’s Highway District, was found in Suffolk County with what appeared to be a   gunshot wound, Stephen P. Davis, the department’s top spokesman, said in a statement. The authorities in Suffolk County said detectives were investigating a death that was reported shortly before 1 p. m. in Babylon. Inspector Ameri, 44, was a friend of Deputy Inspector James Grant, the commander of the 19th Precinct on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, who had been reassigned as part of a wave of discipline amid a sprawling federal inquiry into municipal corruption in New York. Inspector Grant was placed on modified duty last month. There has been no indication that Inspector Ameri was under investigation. It was unclear whether investigators were seeking Inspector Ameri’s cooperation with their inquiry focused on Inspector Grant. Mr. Davis declined to comment on the investigation. “We’ve consistently said this is an ongoing investigation and we would not comment whatsoever,” he said. A law enforcement official said that as of Friday, Inspector Ameri’s duty status had not changed. On Friday evening, police cars were parked in front of Inspector Ameri’s home in West Babylon. Inspector Ameri was the commanding officer of the 78th Precinct in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, from 2011 to July 2014, when he left to lead the Highway District. “We are saddened to learn of the passing of Inspector Michael Ameri,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said in a statement. “Our thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time. ” City Hall officials said that Mr. de Blasio knew Inspector Ameri in passing from the time when the inspector was commander of the 78th Precinct. Roy T. Richter, the president of the union that represents police captains, inspectors and deputy chiefs, said the group was “heartbroken” by Inspector Ameri’s death and asked “that you keep his family in your prayers during this traumatic time. ” “Inspector Ameri is known as a dedicated police officer who excelled in all of his command assignments,” he said.