TORONTO  —   As the Toronto Raptors assembled their lead in the third quarter, Air Canada Centre began to fill with an unmistakable sense that this team was not merely overpowering the Miami Heat. No, the Raptors were also escaping their past. All the   exits. All the blown chances. All the disappointments. On Sunday afternoon, the Raptors turned the most significant basketball game in franchise history into a citywide celebration, defeating the Heat,   in Game 7 of the teams’ Eastern Conference semifinals. Kyle Lowry scored 35 points with a sore elbow, and DeMar DeRozan added 28 with a sprained thumb. “I know one thing,” Coach Dwane Casey said. “Our guys compete. ” Nothing about this game was easy for the Raptors  —   not against the likes of Dwyane Wade, not after seven games, not with so many   bodies. But for the first time in the team’s   existence, the Raptors are bound for the conference finals. Their series with the Cleveland Cavaliers will start Tuesday night at Quicken Loans Arena. “We ain’t satisfied,” Lowry said. “That’s just our mentality. ” The Raptors erupted in the third quarter, building their lead possession by possession. To 11 when DeMarre Carroll sank a  . To 14 when Bismack Biyombo got inside for a dunk. To 16 when Lowry drove to the rim for layup. The Heat trailed by as many as 28 in the fourth. “They wore us down,” Heat Coach Erik Spoelstra said. “Toronto beat us, fair and square. ” Wade and Goran Dragic scored 16 points each for the Heat, who were greeted by light snowfall when they left their hotel for the game. About a   before tipoff, flurries gave way to hail. It was springtime in Canada, and the conditions  —   at least symbolically  —   favored the Raptors. (For the record, it did not snow in Miami for Game 6.) Thousands of fans filed into Jurassic Park, an outdoor viewing party on a block next to the arena. If people here were excited about the game, about this national event, then they were also opening themselves up to the possibility of more frustration, more misery, more sadness. The ghosts of postseasons past have haunted this franchise. Seven previous trips to the playoffs. Six   flameouts. It has been particularly impossible for Toronto to forget 2001, when it came within seconds of advancing to the conference finals. But Vince Carter, after attending his college graduation ceremony that morning, missed a shot at the buzzer, and the Philadelphia 76ers escaped with a Game 7 win in the conference semifinals. That was 15 years ago. The Raptors finally seized another opportunity. “This organization deserves it,” DeRozan said. This was a physical series that featured nearly as many injuries as missed shots. Both teams had long ago lost their starting centers  —   the Raptors’ Jonas Valanciunas to a sprained right ankle, the Heat’s Hassan Whiteside to a sprained right knee. Others played on, through jammed thumbs and bruised wrists, through the toll of a   series that manifested itself in bandages and braces. In Game 6, with his team hoping to extend the series, Spoelstra went small by starting Justise Winslow, a   forward, at center. Spoelstra sought to generate more offense, and he instructed Winslow to set screen after screen along the perimeter, drawing Biyombo, his primary defender, away from the basket. The Heat ran away with the win. Ahead of Game 7, Casey expressed cautious optimism that his players would make the necessary adjustments. He wanted his defenders to focus on the ball, to contain Wade and Dragic and at least slow their dribble penetration. Casey advised his players to stop worrying so much about the coming screen. “Too many times, we’re looking to see where the screens are coming from,” Casey said, adding, “We have to do a good job of locking into the basketball. ” The arena practically shook when DeRozan scored the first points of the game on a midrange jumper. The crowd roared when Wade picked up his second foul and took an early seat. Neither team was particularly efficient, however, and this surprised no one after two weeks of turnovers and empty possessions. On Sunday, the Raptors and the Heat combined to miss nine of their first 10   attempts. DeRozan, though, was assertive. He scored 11 points on 12   attempts in the first quarter. Toronto took a   lead into the second half. As the game wore on, others emerged for the Raptors. Biyombo finished with 17 points, and Patrick Patterson had 11 points and 11 rebounds. “I thought tonight we played big,” Casey said. “If you’re going to do that, you’ve got to make sure you plant your feet in the lane and do what you do. ” Late in the fourth quarter, with the final seconds melting away on the Heat’s season, a happy mob formed in front of the Raptors’ bench. Coaches embraced. Players exchanged  . But back in the locker room, a dose of reality awaited: scouting reports on the Cavaliers, one for every player. “It’s another step for us,” Casey said. “But we’re not there yet. ”