Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • With the stroke of a pen, President Trump formally abandoned the   Partnership, a drastic reversal of decades of trade policy that removes a counterweight to China’s economic might. “We’ve been talking about this for a long time,” Mr. Trump said, calling the withdrawal “a great thing for the American worker. ” Mr. Trump also ordered a hiring freeze for federal workers outside the military, and reinstituted a bar on aid to health providers abroad who offer counseling abortion as a   option. Senators are nearing confirmation votes for Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas to lead the C. I. A. and Rex W. Tillerson for secretary of state, in a cabinet more white and male than any since that of Ronald Reagan. _____ • The White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, gave his first official briefing, two days after angrily berating reporters and making false claims about the size of Trump’s inauguration crowd that one of his team defended as “alternative facts. ” Our reporters offered   analysis of the marathon session, which you can see here, along with the full video. One of our correspondents observed that “Spicer’s plan for getting back on the right side of the press appears to be to stand here and answer every question possible. ” _____ • Japan is a step closer to allowing Emperor Akihito of Japan to abdicate. A government panel’s support for a   provision clears the way for the governing Liberal Democratic Party to propose a measure applying only to the    emperor, which is expected in April. _____ • South Korea’s political crisis took on a cultural dimension after revelations that thousands of artists deemed unfriendly by the government of the impeached president, Park   had been blacklisted from various   programs. Critics of the country’s intensely hierarchical power structure found new ammunition in the problems facing Samsung over its multibillion dollar losses on the Galaxy Note 7. But record earnings in its chip business helped drive   operating profits sharply up. Separately, the cancellation of three concerts in China to be given by Sumi Jo, the famed South Korean soprano, above, heightened suspicions of Chinese payback over Seoul’s decision to deploy a U. S.   system to counter North Korea’s growing military capabilities. _____ • The Times has started a weekly email that explains the ideas and context behind major world events. You can sign up for The Interpreter here. _____ • Britain’s government, awaiting today’s Supreme Court ruling on Parliament’s role in Brexit plans, unveiled a new economic approach that emphasizes business and government coordination and cooperation instead of  . • Hugo Barra, the Google veteran at the top of China’s struggling smartphone   Xiaomi, is returning to Silicon Valley. • At least 14 activists and workers have been detained since labor unrest began last month in Bangladesh, source of much of the world’s clothing. • Alibaba announces quarterly earnings, offering a gauge of how much the growth of its Singles’ Day business has slowed. • The U. S. Congressional Budget Office releases its annual Budget and Economic Outlook, with projections to 2027, and President Trump meets with the leaders of GM, Ford and Fiat Chrysler. • The dollar weakened. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Tornadoes and thunderstorms killed at least 18 people the U. S. states of Georgia and Mississippi, with damage also reported in Alabama, Louisiana and Texas. [The New York Times] • Multinational talks to end Syria’s war got off to a rough start in Astana, Kazakhstan. A government negotiator referred to the Syrian opposition as “armed terrorist groups,” and the rebels called the government “a bloody despotic regime. ” [The New York Times] • China tightened its Great Firewall, requiring government approval for all cable and VPN services. [South China Morning Post] • California got   drenching rains  —   along with flooding, damaging winds and mudslides. [The New York Times] • Lawmakers in India’s state of Tamil Nadu adopted an emergency law to reverse a ban on jallikattu, an ancient   sport, after days of protests that turned violent on Monday. [The New York Times] • The police in Brisbane, Australia, are investigating the death of actor who was shot during the filming of a   music video using firearms as props. [ABC] • A   investigation   Pandora led police to thousands of archaeological artifacts and other artworks looted from   countries by a trafficking network. [The New York Times] • In Bangladesh, textbook revisions sought by Islamic scholars have alarmed secular intellectuals, who warn against accommodating any shift toward radical Islam. [The New York Times] • A monthly roundup of China’s best photojournalism. [ChinaFile] • Insomnia keep you tossing and turning last night? Online therapy could make a difference. • Marriage may help you survive a stroke: Social relationships can have immediate and lasting consequences on health. • Recipe of the day: Try this carrot and red lentil ragout over rice, and turn any leftovers into soup. • The author of “Shanghai Grand,” a book celebrating the glamorous Paris of the Orient on the eve of World War II, visits another side of the city: its     “alleyway homes. ” You can too, in our latest 360 video. • From gorillas to gibbons, a new study has found an alarming decline in the world’s  primates that threatens more than half of their species with extinction. • Oscar nominations are due today, so get ready to join the office pool. Here’s our complete coverage of the season. Super Bowl history was made 35 years ago today when John Madden, the former N. F. L. coach and TV commentator, drew diagrams on a screen for viewers watching the 49ers beat the Bengals in Super Bowl XVI. The tool he used is now a staple of sports and weather broadcasts. The Telestrator was invented by Leonard Reiffel, a former NASA scientist and onetime colleague of the astronomer Carl Sagan. Mr. Reiffel developed the tool for a children’s science show he hosted in Chicago. He successfully pitched the technology to the sports and weather departments. Networks in New York took notice, and after the 1982 Super Bowl, CBS ordered four of the devices, Mr. Reiffel said. At first, a pen was used to draw on one of Mr. Reiffel’s handmade, wooden consoles. Today,   tablets are typically used. For his work, the National Academy of Arts and Sciences honored Mr. Reiffel with an Emmy in 2004. His mother coined the name Telestrator, which was slightly catchier than Mr. Reiffel’s description: a “superimposed dynamic television display system. ” _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.