OAKLAND, Calif.  —   Kevin Durant began his evening by searching for his teammates. He dribbled against defenders and kicked the ball out to the perimeter, involving everyone as the Oklahoma City Thunder sought to extend their season. Some two hours later, his night ended in a flurry of yellow confetti. As the Golden State Warriors celebrated their Game 7 victory in the Western Conference finals late Monday, Durant found Stephen Curry, the Warriors’ transcendent star, and the two embraced. Not so long ago, Durant was the league’s most valuable player. Curry now owns the title, and they showed their mutual respect. Over the course of the series, Durant pulled everything from his basketball tool kit. He scored and defended. He encouraged his teammates and badgered his opponents. It was nearly good enough. The Thunder had three games  —   three rare opportunities  —   to close this thing out and advance to their first N. B. A. finals since 2012. Instead, the Warriors proved their dominance once more in their   victory. But if the Thunder are sure to be haunted by their mistakes, Durant delivered a message of hope. “Just proud, man,” Durant said. “It’s a journey. A lot of people just see the basketball games, but they don’t see everything else behind the scenes, and that’s what I’m proud of these guys for: staying together and continuing to get better day by day throughout the season. ” As the Warriors began to prepare for their N. B. A. title defense against the Cleveland Cavaliers, who will visit Oracle Arena on Thursday night for Game 1 of the N. B. A. finals, Durant waded into his uncertain future. He is due for free agency this summer, and teams are lining up. He is among the best players of his generation, a   talent. “I’ll think about that stuff,” said Durant, who has spent his entire career with the Thunder franchise. “I don’t know when. ” But in the wake of profound disappointment, after so many blown chances to upend one of the most dominant teams in league history, Durant sounded encouraged by the experience, by his team’s growth and by what the future held. He did not sound like a man who was ready to leave. “I thought we peaked at the right time and got better at the right time,” he said. “Unfortunately, we didn’t come out on top. And that’s something that all the guys are upset about. But we laid it all out there. Everybody left their soul out on the court. We have no regrets. ” The case for Oklahoma City is simple: Durant can make more money by staying (the N. B. A. ’s collective bargaining agreement rewards loyalty) and the Thunder are an excellent team. With Russell Westbrook, his   teammate, set to become a free agent in 2017, it would make sense for Durant to sign a   deal with an   after next season. The Thunder are right there, after all  —   one win short of the finals this season, with young players who are improving. Consider the emergence of Steven Adams, their    center. Against the Warriors, he averaged 10 points and 8. 9 rebounds while playing terrific defense and revealing a remarkable threshold for pain. He is exactly the type of player who complements Durant and Westbrook, both of whom can score and create offense. Adams, who seems oblivious to statistics, is happy to do everything else. “It’s up to him,” Adams said of Durant’s looming decision. “We’re just here to support him, and he knows that. ” It was a stirring run for the Thunder, especially given their recent history. Last season, with Durant sidelined for all but 27 games because of injuries, Oklahoma City went   and landed in the draft lottery. After Billy Donovan was hired to replace Scott Brooks as coach, he set about building relationships with his players. The Thunder improved as the weeks and months passed, becoming more cohesive, more aggressive and more dangerous in the twin shadows cast by the Warriors and the San Antonio Spurs, whom the Thunder demolished in their conference semifinal series. “I think they got dramatically better during the playoffs,” Warriors Coach Steve Kerr said. “I really do. They’ve always been very, very talented. They’ve always been formidable. ” Before Game 7 on Monday, Donovan was completely at ease with the weight of the moment, saying his players had “an understanding of what they’re walking into tonight. ” After launching 31 shots in Game 6, Durant tailored his approach for Game 7. He attempted just five field goals in the first half, coaxing his team along by being generous with the ball. He knew he could not do it alone  —   until he nearly did, his   scoring binge cutting into the Warriors’ lead. Curry was too much in the end, though. In the final two games of the series, the Warriors shot 38 of 82 from   range (46. 3 percent). The Thunder were 10 of 50 (20 percent). Those totals stuck with Durant. “They beat us from the   line,” Durant said. “We beat them everywhere else. They beat us from the   line, and that was the series. ” It was a sign to him of just how close the Thunder had come to reaching the grand stage of the finals. All the more reason, then, for him to come back and try again.