As the police continue to investigate a shooting during a   concert at a Manhattan nightclub last week that left one person dead and three injured, the concert promoter behind the club is postponing a series of shows, including many rap events. Live Nation, the giant concert company that operates the club, Irving Plaza, said it was postponing three rap concerts there over the next week, as well as three other concerts at another of its New York clubs. The shows include events by the rappers Joey Badass, Mac Miller and Vince Staples at Irving Plaza that were being presented with the Governors Ball Music Festival this weekend, and three concerts at the Gramercy Theater, by Appetite for Destruction, a Guns N’ Roses tribute band the rock band Black Pistol Fire and YG, a popular rapper. “In light of last week’s tragic events, we are acting with an overabundance of caution and coordinating a   strategy with the New York Police Department that may also include a curfew,” Jim Yeager, a spokesman for Live Nation, said in a statement issued on Wednesday. “Because these discussions with the N. Y. P. D. are ongoing, we will be postponing a few of our upcoming shows at Irving Plaza and the Gramercy. ” But the police contradicted Live Nation’s statement. “The organization’s decision to cancel the event was in no way influenced by the N. Y. P. D.,” Sophia Mason, a spokeswoman for the department, said in a statement. The cancellations came as the New York concert halls struggled to deal with the aftermath of the shooting, with security checks at some venues becoming much more rigorous than usual. A clip from a security camera video shows Troy Ave, a Brooklyn rapper whose real name is Roland Collins, firing a gun backstage at Irving Plaza on May 25. He was charged on Monday with attempted murder and criminal possession of a weapon he pleaded not guilty. One of Mr. Collins’s bodyguards, Ronald McPhatter, 33, was killed in the episode, and Mr. Collins was shot in the leg. A police official who declined to be named because of the continuing investigation said on Tuesday that three guns were found in a car used to drive Mr. Collins to the hospital. Investigators believe one of the guns is the same weapon that Mr. Collins was seen firing in the video and that was used to kill Mr. McPhatter, but they are awaiting confirmation from ballistics tests, the official said. If the tests show that the gun Mr. Collins fired was the one that killed Mr. McPhatter, Mr. Collins will also be charged with murder, the official said. Mr. Collins’s lawyers have claimed that he was acting in   and said he did not shoot himself or Mr. McPhatter. The police have said until now that they are not seeking a second suspect, but that could change based on results of the tests. Live Nation offered no details about rescheduled dates for the postponed concerts, but by Wednesday afternoon, some of the performers were already making other plans. Black Pistol Fire, which was to play on Saturday at the Gramercy, said it was moving its show to Saint Vitus in Brooklyn the same night. Appetite for Destruction said it would play at the Gramercy on Aug. 12. Joey Badass, a    rapper from Brooklyn, told his fans via Twitter on Wednesday to meet him elsewhere in the city. “They cancelled my show tmrw,” he wrote, “so we gon party. ”