On Thursday, The New York Times obtained a draft version of a State Department memo that sharply criticizes the Obama administration’s Syria policy and calls for limited military strikes against that country’s government. The memo, signed by 51 diplomats, was sent through an agency “dissent channel” that was established during the Vietnam War to air internal criticism. Because the memo is written by and for government officials, its language can be difficult to parse. What follows is an annotation of 10 key lines, many of which were marked SBU, for “sensitive but unclassified” (U is unclassified). Discussion of the memo has focused on the dissenters’ indictment of their own leader’s policy. Many of their points have been debated inside the administration for years, and there are complicated arguments on both sides. While their proposed solution excludes some significant points, there is a core truth in this document: Current policy has little answer for how to break out of a status quo that is disastrous and steadily getting worse. State Department officials have been pushing for years for a limited military intervention in Syria along these lines. The Central Intelligence Agency joined the department in backing airstrikes in internal administration discussions in 2012 and 2013 the Pentagon and National Security Council were opposed. President Obama has decisively ruled out such strikes, in part out of concern for the absence of popular support for American involvement in another war in the Middle East. But the fighting  —   and its devastating humanitarian toll  —   has ground on and in some cases expanded, so the rationale for deploying United States military power has, in the eyes of the dissenters, grown only more urgent. “  weapons” are things like cruise missiles launched from far enough away that Syria could not retaliate. The dissenters’ stated goal of using them, along with airstrikes, is not to topple President Bashar   of Syria, but to pressure him toward a peace deal. Proponents of such a plan often cite the 1999 NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, which helped push that country’s leaders to reach a diplomatic agreement over the conflict in Kosovo. Some say that parallel is flawed because of the active involvement of Russia and Iran in this war, suggesting that those countries might escalate their activity in support of Syrian forces to counterbalance any American strikes. (The memo here also refers to Daesh, an Arabic acronym for the Islamic State.) This line indicates both why these diplomats are speaking up and why their dissent is being met with skepticism. Because the White House has chosen to emphasize diplomacy, the State Department is being asked to pursue a strategy it does not fully support. Citing the war’s toll is a way for the diplomats to express their frustration with that arrangement. It is also a way to draw attention to the costs of allowing the status quo to continue. However, opponents of intervention argue that just because the status quo is bad does not mean that bombing Syrian government forces would improve things. Some accuse State Department officials like these dissenters of “ ”: a reasoning that the situation is so awful that something must be done, and airstrikes are something, therefore airstrikes are a good policy. This statement argues that airstrikes will entrench Syria in an unsolvable stalemate, thereby giving the Syrian leader no choice but to negotiate. The latest peace efforts have gone nowhere at a time when Mr. Assad, backed by Russian forces, is winning on the battlefield. If Mr. Obama wants to negotiate an end to the conflict, the dissenters say, the United States and its allies have to show a willingness to match Russian muscle and give Mr. Assad a clear signal that he cannot win a meaningful victory solely on the ground. This approach risks worsening the war’s toll in the short term, and there is no guarantee that the United States could break the Syrian president’s will soon. But the memo highlights the fact that Russia’s expanded military involvement changed the status quo, and the United States has not found a way to change it back, leaving the administration with less leverage. Airstrikes against Syrian government forces, the memo argues, would also help defeat the Islamic State. Most analysts agree that Mr. Assad’s abuses and the Syrian civil war have both fueled the Islamic State’s rise, as the memo says. But while these dissenting diplomats argue that a peace deal would allow Syria’s government and Syrian rebels to join together to fight the Islamic State, others worry that rebels  —   including the Kurdish YPG, or People’s Protection Units  —   would turn against one another to fight for power. This happened in Afghanistan in 1992, when rebels who had defeated the government began a yearslong civil war among themselves, and likewise in Libya in 2011. The memo suggests that, were the United States to impose a   zone over Syria, the fighting would cool  —   and that this, in turn, would lessen the suffering of Syrians (including refugees and I. D. P. or internally displaced persons) and open more space for peace talks. This is an ambitious prediction. Research by Micah Zenko of the Council on Foreign Relations found that airstrikes account for only a fraction of deaths in Syria. Mr. Zenko also found that   zones tend to escalate wars rather than calm them. Syria would be particularly tricky, given that many airstrikes are carried out by Russian rather than Syrian warplanes. The memo does not address whether a   zone would apply to Russia or how Washington could enforce it without risking a major conflict. This makes two sharp points about why Syria peace talks never seem to go anywhere. First, the United States has little leverage to force Syria to make concessions or keep its promises. Second, negotiations have involved several countries and groups, each with its own agenda. The Obama administration has been unable to address either of these factors. The memo contrasts this with the Iran nuclear deal, which worked in part because the United States imposed economic sanctions and also because talks were streamlined between two sides, with Iran on one and the United States mostly leading the other. This is an important critique of the president’s choice of diplomacy over intervention: It is difficult to see any path for peace talks unless Washington finds a way to assert far greater leverage. The United States missed a window to assert such leverage earlier in the conflict because of internal   and a mistaken White House conclusion, in 2012, that Mr. Assad was about to fall without being further pushed. Airstrikes, the memo argues, could be the leverage the United States needs to commandeer the negotiations and force Syria to compromise. This intervention would need to be forceful enough to overpower not only Mr. Assad, but also his Russian and Iranian backers, who have so far shown a willingness to escalate their involvement to keep their ally in power. The only way for the Obama administration to   Syria’s allies is to surpass their commitments, which at this point could require something as extreme as a ground invasion. The most revealing aspect of this memo is what it excludes. It does not address how to resolve the deep disagreements even among allies about what a peace deal should look like. It does not offer a legal basis for war against Syria, which Russia would surely block at the United Nations. It does not say how to remove Mr. Assad without letting the Syrian government collapse. The memo is as much about registering frustration, even outrage, with the current policy as it is about offering a detailed alternative. In that sense, it is also as revealing about matters internal to Washington  —   questions of blame and responsibility  —   as it is about the prospects for ending Syria’s nightmare.