Jason Day, the No.   golfer in the world, became the latest player to pull out of the Olympics because of concern over the Zika virus. “The reason for my decision is my concerns about the possible transmission of the Zika virus and the potential risks that it may present to my wife’s future pregnancies and to future members of our family,” he said in a statement. Day, 28, of Australia, won last year’s P. G. A. Championship for his first major title. Golf is in the Olympics this year for the first time since 1904. But with a large number of key players pulling out, its future may be in doubt. Barry Maister, an International Olympic Committee member from New Zealand, this week blasted the golfers who have dropped out of the Games. “I think it is appalling,” he told the radio station Newstalk ZB. “I don’t like it, and I don’t think the sport should be allowed to continue in the Games under that scenario. ” Maister added, “Just getting in with your name and then putting up some   or   players is so far from the Olympic ideal or the expectation of the Olympic movement. ” With Day out, the top three golfers from Australia (Day, Adam Scott and Marc Leishman) have decided not to go to the Olympics. And the top three golfers from South Africa are all not going: Branden Grace, Louis Oosthuizen and Charl Schwartzel. Shane Lowry also pulled out of the Olympics on Tuesday, citing Zika, meaning the top three golfers who could represent Ireland are also out: Lowry Rory McIlroy, ranked No. 4, who also cited the virus and Graeme McDowell, who said he wanted to be with his wife, Kristin, during her pregnancy. Vijay Singh of Fiji has also pulled out. Gary Player, the    captain of the South African team, joked last week that he was ready to step in and play if needed. In addition to Zika fears, golfers have cited a busy schedule as a concern. The British Open and the P. G. A. are both being held in late July, just before the Games. Golf has been the   sport, but the American cyclist Tejay van Garderen also withdrew from the Games over the virus. Some athletes and coaches have said they will preserve sperm for possible future pregnancies before traveling to Rio. Zika is a   virus linked to severe birth defects. Hundreds of thousands are infected in Brazil, and the virus has been tied to thousands of cases of microcephaly, which causes unusually small heads and brain damage in newborns. The virus can be sexually transmitted. Some scientists have called for postponement or cancellation of the Games because of the health emergency. Olympic officials say the risk is minimal. The   American, Jordan Spieth, No. 2 in the world, is still expected to compete. None of the world’s top female golfers have backed out of the Olympics, even though they ostensibly face a greater health risk. Since the decision to add golf to the Summer Olympics program, the reaction of the top players has been lukewarm. With many major events on the annual calendar, the value of an Olympic medal is not the same as it is for athletes for whom the Olympics is the pinnacle of their sport. Plenty of athletes in those sports are still eager to compete. “Everyone keeps dropping off one by one,” said the   gold medalist Michael Phelps, who is competing in the United States swimming trials in Indianapolis. “Nobody wants to go. But hopefully I get to go soon. ” Serena Williams, speaking at Wimbledon, acknowledged that “it’s difficult for someone that’s in a sport like golf because their main goal, like tennis, is to win slams,” but said of playing at the Olympics, “It is really one of the best experiences that I’ve ever had. ”