(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. President Trump is quickly dismantling   policies. He revived two blocked pipeline projects: the Keystone XL pipeline, the focus of years of debate over energy needs and climate change and the Dakota Access pipeline, the target of intense Native American protests. Mr. Trump also pressed automakers to increase jobs in the U. S. But a new forecast of a federal budget deficit that could expand to almost $10 trillion over 10 years could complicate his agenda to slash taxes and ramp up spending. And the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, stood by Mr. Trump’s repetition of the false claim that only millions of illegal votes by undocumented immigrants cost him the popular vote. _____  2. On Capitol Hill, Mr. Trump’s pick to be secretary of health and human services, Representative Tom Price of Georgia, defended his investments in an Australian pharmaceutical company. And James Comey, above, told top agents that he’d been asked to remain as head of the F. B. I. averting another potentially bruising confirmation battle. It’s a delicate time for the intelligence community, which is looking into ties between Mr. Trump’s associates  —   including his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort  —   and Russia. Mr. Trump said he’d name his Supreme Court pick next week. The top contenders are conservatives on federal appeals courts: William Pryor Jr. known for his opposition to abortion and gay rights, and Neil Gorsuch, more distinguished by credentials, erudition and relatively muted stances. _____ 3. This year’s Oscar nominations are out. Voters gave “La La Land” 14 nominations, a tie for the most in Academy Award history. The academy also honored six black actors  —   a record. They included Denzel Washington and Viola Davis for their roles in “Fences,” above. Here is the full list of nominees our critics’ rundown of surprises and snubs reactions from some of the nominees a form to complete your own ballot and a guide on how to stream the nominated movies. _____ 4. Israel, discarding diplomatic restraint just a few days into the Trump administration, approved the construction of 2, 500 housing units in West Bank settlements. A month ago, the Obama administration declined to veto a Security Council resolution that condemned Israeli settlements as a “flagrant violation of international law,” and a week ago, a gathering of world leaders warned Israel to stop expanding them. _____ 5. Two days of talks in Kazakhstan on the Syrian war concluded with an agreement by Iran, Russia and Turkey to enforce a partial  . But they didn’t say how, and none of the Syrians at the conference  —   neither the government, nor the rebels, above  —   signed the agreement, and the main result was solidifying Russia’s role in the diplomacy. _____ 6. The Manhattan jail holding the notorious drug lord known as El Chapo is said to be tougher than Guantánamo. A remarkable figure in the annals of crime history, with two escapes from   Mexican prisons, he was extradited to the U. S. last week. The lights are on almost 24 hours a day, security is extraordinarily stringent, and the most closely guarded prisoners are denied almost all human contact. But it has seen several successful escapes. _____ 7. The expensive wonder drugs approved in recent years to cure hepatitis C, which can lead to liver disease and cancer, offered the hope of resolving a huge public health problem in the U. S. and around the world. But a report coming out Wednesday warns of the possibility of serious side effects, including liver failure, and doctors said the issue warranted further study. The news set off a new round of debate over the risks of expedited approval for badly needed drugs. “Benefits and side effects evolve over the long term, not over 12 weeks,” an author of the study said. _____ 8. Burning dinner might seem like a mistake. But the art of strategic charring, browning and blackening has deep roots in many cuisines. Exercised with care, it can conjure a world of flavor. Chefs are embracing the technique. Consider moles made with charred and   ingredients, above, blackened avocado and, mmm, lamb heart ashes. _____ 9. Houston is preparing to welcome the Super Bowl on Feb. 5, and its leaders are eager to show off the makeover the city has undergone since it last hosted the game more than a decade ago. A hub for the oil and gas industries and the nation’s   city, Houston is on the upswing, boasting an array of new restaurants,   green space, and cultural and entertainment venues. _____ 10. On the move? Our travel writer reviewed several meditation apps that have sessions for use on planes, trains  —   even your daily commute. One is called “OMG. I Can Meditate!” Another offers the affirming reminder: “The more our mind learns about itself, the stronger it becomes. ” As we’ve said before about mindfulness exercises: Hey, it can’t hurt. _____ 11. Finally, there are many ways to look at history. We’re gauging it through antique lace: our 165 years of wedding reporting. The project’s first installment focuses on the subjects of The Times’s first wedding announcement, on Sept. 18, 1851, Sarah Mullett and John Grant. And, amazingly, generations of their descendants, who gather every year for a family photo with the ancestral portraits. _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.