Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • President Trump is expected to order the construction of a Mexican border wall today and slash immigration of refugees from “terror prone” nations, White House officials said. He pressed automakers to increase jobs in the U. S. but a new forecast of a federal budget deficit that could expand to almost $10 trillion over 10 years could complicate his agenda to cut taxes and ramp up spending. Mr. Trump also revived two pipelines blocked under President Obama: the Keystone XL pipeline, the focus of years of debate over energy needs and climate change and the Dakota Access pipeline, the target of Native American protests. _____ • And tensions are rising between the U. S. and China. Beijing, after a challenge from a Trump spokesman, insisted it had “irrefutable” sovereignty over disputed islands in the South China Sea. China sees opportunities to extend its global reach with Mr. Trump in power, but it also sees a threat to its prized goal, stability. _____ • Israel, discarding diplomatic restraint just a few days into the Trump administration, approved the construction of 2, 500 housing units for Jews in West Bank settlements. A month ago, the Obama administration declined to veto a Security Council resolution condemning the settlements, and last week, a gathering of world leaders warned Israel to stop expanding them. _____ • The office of Prime Minister Theresa May pledged to stay on its timetable for taking Britain out of the European Union despite a top court ruling requiring the approval of Parliament before the process can begin. Political observers said it was unlikely that legislators, despite being largely opposed to Brexit, would try to block the will of the voters. _____ • Three months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi abruptly banned 86 percent of India’s currency in a bid to fight “black money”  —   hidden reserves that feed corruption  —   unemployment is spreading, and some people are going without fruit, vegetables and milk. “This has actually hurt the poor enormously,” one business leader said. Above, a protest over cash shortages last week. _____ • And this year’s Oscar nominations are out. Voters gave “La La Land” 14 nominations, a tie for the most in Academy Award history. The academy also honored six black actors  —   a record. Here is the full list of nominees. _____ • The Alibaba Group beat estimates with strong   earnings. The results showed how much the   giant  —   despite a growing global profile and its record I. P. O. on Wall Street  —   is still dependent on China. • Silver Lake, an investment firm, is leading a $1. 1 billion investment in Koubei, an   business that is part of what is increasingly known as the    sector, or O2O. • President Trump’s pick for the Federal Communications Commission, Ajit Pai, an   from Kansas, is expected to roll back rules that ban internet service providers from favoring certain websites and apps. • Nearly 470 million Chinese citizens used their mobile phones to make payments last year, an increase of 31 percent from 2015, new government data shows. • Japan releases data on its imports and exports for December. The country’s   economy has been struggling despite government efforts at stimulus. • South Korea and Taiwan release G. D. P. figures. • Wall Street was up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • China’s 816 nuclear plant, begun in the 1960s, was one of the country’s most ambitious military projects. Today, the   mountain has been reborn as a tourist attraction. [The New York Times] • Peter Thiel, the American billionaire, has taken New Zealand citizenship and quietly acquired a sprawling estate on Lake Wanaka. [New Zealand Herald] • Afghanistan ordered the arrest of nine bodyguards of Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, the more senior of the country’s two vice presidents, on accusations of the rape and torture of an Uzbek elder. [The New York Times] • A wave of smog is forecast to engulf four northern Chinese provinces as the Lunar New Year approaches. [Reuters] • Talks in Astana, Kazakhstan, may have done more to to firm up Russia’s growing role in diplomacy over Syria than to create any progress toward peace. [The New York Times] • A proposal to ban the display of Vietnam’s flag on city poles has divided the Vietnamese community of San Jose, Calif. [The Mercury News] • Gambia’s former president, Yahya Jammeh, didn’t go into exile in Equatorial Guinea  : He left with two   a   and a plane full of luxury items. [The New York Times] • China’s government has shut down 111 of the country’s 683 golf courses since 2011, citing illegal land or water use. [Xinhua] • Scientists found the fossils of a huge, nearly    otter that roamed rivers and lakes in southwestern China about 6. 2 million years ago. [Reuters] • Doing just 12 minutes of yoga can improve your bone health. • Vacations don’t have to be all about relaxing: Here’s how to plan one with some good deeds along the way. • Recipe of the day: Try this grilled cheese sandwich featuring mayonnaise for some midweek comfort food. • In China, members of the Tanka people have survived on southern coastal waterways, and on the margins of society, since ancient times. As big cities spread, their floating way of life is disappearing. • Genetic research is taking some truly   turns. Ant researchers have identified the molecular and neural cues that help explain social behaviors, including caring for young, breeding  —   even capturing and   upstarts, like tiny police officers. • And a pioneering scientist, Maria Sibylla Merian, captivated Europeans 300 years ago with her studies of insects. Now, her findings are being celebrated again. Grandstands filled with cheering fans, perfectly plated vegetables, and your country’s name on the line  —   this isn’t your typical cooking competition. This is the Bocuse d’Or, or the culinary version of the Olympics. The competition, which takes place this week in Lyon, France, was founded by the master French chef Paul Bocuse. He was influential in establishing nouvelle cuisine, which emphasizes ingredients and presentation. At 90, Mr. Bocuse remains a king among chefs. Long before “  ” became a trendy concept, a    Bocuse was learning how to butcher a cow for his first restaurant job. He eventually joined his father at their family restaurant, L’Auberge du Pont de Collonges. One year after he took over, the restaurant won a Michelin star. He recalled how early in his career he wowed a prominent food critic with fresh ingredients. Mr. Bocuse served haricots verts picked that morning, lightly boiled and served with olive oil, shallots and salt. In 1966, The Times’s Craig Claiborne described the restaurant outside of Lyon as “one of the most elegant and proudest restaurants outside of Paris. ” Mr. Bocuse, though, once offered a less refined assessment of his skills. “Some men have mistresses,” Mr. Bocuse once said. “I run a luxury restaurant. ” Remy Tumin contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.