The vast majority of interactions between police officers and civilians end routinely, with no one injured, no one aggrieved and no one making the headlines. But when force is used, a new study has found, the race of the person being stopped by officers is significant. The study of thousands of    episodes from police departments across the nation has concluded what many people have long thought, but which could not be proved because of a lack of data:   are far more likely than whites and other groups to be the victims of use of force by the police, even when racial disparities in crime are taken into account. The report, to be released Friday by the Center for Policing Equity, a New   think tank, took three years to assemble and largely refutes explanations from some police officials that blacks are more likely to be subjected to police force because they are more frequently involved in criminal activity. The researchers said they did not gather enough data specifically related to police shootings to draw conclusions on whether there were racial disparities when it came to the fatal confrontations between officers and civilians so in the news. The study’s release comes at a particularly volatile time in the relationship between the police and minority communities after   fatal police shootings of   men this week in Louisiana and Minnesota prompted widespread outrage. Portions of the episodes, both captured on video and released publicly, have intensified calls for police reform as many departments across the nation have been slow to deploy body cameras or to mandate changes in officer training standards after the   deaths of a number of   at the hands of police officers in the past two years.   activists who have demanded greater police accountability since the 2014 fatal police shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo. set off days of rioting, said Thursday that the study was critical to the conversation, but far from surprising. “It’s kind of like, ‘Is water wet? ’” said Aislinn Sol, organizer of the Chicago chapter of Black Lives Matter. “But what we gain with each study, each new piece of information is that we are able to win people over who are on the fence. The evidence is becoming overwhelming and incontrovertible that it is a systemic problem, rather than an isolated one. ” The organization compiled more than 19, 000    incidents by police officers representing 11 large and midsize cities and one large urban county from 2010 to 2015. It is the sort of data the Obama administration and the Justice Department have been seeking from police departments for nearly two years, in many cases, unsuccessfully. The report found that although officers employ force in less than 2 percent of all   interactions, the use of police force is disproportionately high for    —   more than three times greater than for whites. The study, “The Science of Justice: Race, Arrests, and Police Use of Force,” did not seek to determine whether the employment of force in any particular instance was justified, but the center’s researchers found that the disparity in which   were subjected to police force remained consistent across what law enforcement officers call the    continuum  —   from relatively mild physical force, through baton strikes, canine bites, pepper spray, Tasers and gunshots. “The dominant narrative has been that this happens to   because they are arrested in disproportionate numbers,” said Phillip Atiba Goff, a founder and president of the Center for Policing Equity, based at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. “But the data really makes it difficult to say that crime is the primary driver of this. In every single category, the   disparity persists. ” The study found that the overall mean    rate for all black residents was 273 per 100, 000, which is 3. 6 times higher than the rate for white residents (76 per 100, 000) and 2. 5 times higher than the overall rate of 108 per 100, 000 for all residents. For those who were arrested, the mean rate of use of force against blacks was 46 for every 1, 000 arrests, compared with 36 per 1, 000 for whites. The Obama administration has been nudging police departments to adapt   tactics and to fix broken relationships with poor and minority communities across the nation, which typically experience far more intensive policing because of what are frequently higher crime rates. But because police departments often refuse to release    data that would illustrate such trends, the federal government has had a difficult time in determining whether police departments are employing force less often. The federal government cannot generally compel police departments to hand over such material, and many local agencies say they do not require officers to submit    reports. Other departments say they lack the resources to collect such information, and others acknowledge privately that they fear that the release of their data would subject them to unwanted scrutiny from the public and the federal government. But when the Justice Department has had the ability to review    records, it has found evidence of abuse. In Seattle, federal investigators found that one out of every five    episodes had been excessive. In Albuquerque, the Justice Department determined that most police shootings from 2009 to 2012 had been unjustified. Researchers for the center said Thursday that the compilation of the    material after years of failed efforts to determine whether racial bias was present represented a significant success. The data is so closely held by police departments that the agencies that cooperated with the project did so anonymously. Though the 12 municipalities that provided data were not named, they represented a large urban county in California and 11 cities spanning the nation with populations that range from less than 100, 000 to several million, with an average population of 600, 000. The center said that given the diversity of the municipalities  —   six are predominantly white, one is predominantly black or Latino, and five have populations in which no single racial or ethnic group represents 50 percent or more of the population  —   that the findings are likely to hold true for most other cities. Cameron McLay, the police chief of Pittsburgh, said his agency had been among those to share its    data. He said use of force by his officers had decreased in recent years, but acknowledged that there remained concerns about disparities in use of force when it came to  . “We are responsible for not just bringing down the crime rate, but for making people feel safe in their communities,” he said.