In the complaint that Gretchen Carlson, the former Fox News anchor, filed this week against Roger Ailes, the network’s chairman, one thing stands out above all: the overtness of the sexual harassment that Ms. Carlson says she endured. “I think you and I should have had a sexual relationship a long time ago and then you’d be good and better and I’d be good and better,” Mr. Ailes told her last year, according to the complaint. And yet the legal case Ms. Carlson has built is based largely on her claims of Mr. Ailes’s retaliation against her for standing up to him, not the underlying discrimination. “Definitely the primary complaint is that she has been retaliated against by rebuffing his demands, complaining about discrimination,” Nancy Erika Smith, Ms. Carlson’s lead lawyer, said in an interview. In fashioning their arguments this way, Ms. Carlson and Ms. Smith epitomize a stark trend in discrimination cases over the last decade or two: More and more workers are bringing retaliation claims, and those claims, in turn, often determine the outcome of their cases. So pronounced is this practice that proving retaliation has sometimes displaced attempts to remedy the discriminatory treatment itself, a development that concerns some legal experts. “A lot of companies would find it easier to deal with the problem of retaliation, as opposed to addressing these underlying problems of harassment  —   denying promotions, paying lower wages because of sex,” said Peter   of the Washington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs. According to data compiled by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, charges of retaliation linked to discrimination claims more than doubled from 1997 to 2015, to just under 40, 000, overtaking charges of racial discrimination, which had previously been the most common E. E. O. C. charge. One reason for the trend may be a pair of Supreme Court rulings in the late 1990s that prompted employers to enact policies that encourage workers to come forward when they believe they have suffered discrimination. But, of course, any uptick in workers speaking up also creates more risk that their bosses will retaliate against them for doing so, said Carolyn Wheeler, a longtime E. E. O. C. lawyer now at the firm Katz, Marshall  Banks in Washington. In recent years, the commission has also made a priority of combating retaliation, Ms. Wheeler said, for the simple reason that it can fulfill its mission only if “people aren’t afraid to bring discrimination to the attention of the agency. ” Perhaps most important, however, is the fact that it is often easier to win a retaliation claim than a case about the original discrimination, and it has become more so in recent years. The Supreme Court in 2006 made it easier to prove that an employer’s response was serious enough to constitute retaliation, instead of being able to win only when an employee suffered an unambiguously harsh consequence for speaking up, like being fired. Anything that might well have discouraged a reasonable person from coming forward, like a schedule that makes it tough to care for one’s children, could suffice. Ms. Smith, the lawyer in the Carlson case, adds that retaliation claims can be more intuitive, because the desire to punish an accuser is almost universal. By contrast, discrimination claims may involve comments or actions that not everyone will view as hostile or demeaning. “I do think it’s absolutely true that it’s easier for juries to get retaliation,” she said. “It’s easier for even men to understand retaliation in a case. Maybe women might understand more how damaging this environment is. ” There is evidence to support this. Cynthia Calvert, a discrimination lawyer and senior adviser at the Center for WorkLife Law in San Francisco, recently reviewed 4, 400 cases involving workers who believed their employers had discriminated against them because of their role as caregivers, such as mothers of newborns. Ms. Calvert said that although many employees would file both discrimination and retaliation claims, “not infrequently, the discrimination claim would be dismissed in summary judgment, but the retaliation claim would remain. ” “The end result,” she said, “is that we probably have more verdicts and settlement on retaliation than on the underlying claim. ” In one  prominent case in May, a sheriff’s sergeant in Sacramento won an award of more than $3 million when the jury found that her superiors had retaliated against her for complaining of discrimination. The discrimination claims had been dismissed. (Other lawyers note that retaliation claims can fail when the alleged retaliation comes a considerable time after the plaintiff first complained of discrimination, so this approach is hardly bulletproof.) The trend has its downsides, however, if the goal is to root out and address actual discrimination. “The whole point of this is, if there’s wrongdoing in a workplace, you want to make sure an employer understands what it is and corrects it so that it doesn’t go on in the future,” Ms. Calvert said. If the focus is primarily on retaliation, “you’re not getting that effect. ” In the extreme situation, aggressively policing retaliation but setting a dauntingly high bar for many types of discrimination claims could have the odd effect of making it relatively easy for workers to confront their employers while giving those employers little incentive to change certain corrosive practices. It would be akin to protecting corporate and government   while leaving intact barriers to prosecuting corruption. To truly root out discriminatory behavior, many experts say, it must become easier for victims to gain redress legally. For example, courts frequently require plaintiffs to show that a similar employee was treated differently  —   say, a woman claiming that she was denied promotion because of gender discrimination would need to show that a similarly productive man with the same duties and qualifications received the promotion. But such airtight comparisons frequently do not exist, particularly at smaller companies. More broadly, courts grappling with discrimination cases are often laboring under a standard that favors direct evidence  —   like explicitly sexist or racist comments  —   that emerged almost two generations ago. In those days, bias was frequently overt. Today, biases tend to be more subtle and unconscious, like employers believing they are treating different workers equally even when they are not. “‘We don’t hire people like you’ was the world of the 1960s and 1970s, and the courts came up with ways of proving discrimination of that sort,” said Ms. Wheeler, the former E. E. O. C. lawyer. “That doesn’t help very much for plaintiffs today. ”