A graphic description of sexual abuse from 1976 detailed in court documents released Tuesday cast new doubt on assertions by Joe Paterno, the former Penn State football coach, that he did not know until 2001 that his former assistant Jerry Sandusky had abused minors. The testimony, which was revealed in the course of a lawsuit between Penn State and one of its insurers over nearly $100 million in settlements the university reached with 32 of Mr. Sandusky’s victims, implied that Mr. Paterno knew about child sexual abuse by Mr. Sandusky years earlier but did nothing about it, allowing Mr. Sandusky to continue to abuse dozens of boys for decades. Mr. Sandusky’s serial sexual abuse became public in 2011. Mr. Paterno said in sworn testimony that year that he first heard of accusations about Mr. Sandusky in 2001. A   university report later concluded that Mr. Paterno, who died of cancer in 2012, had been made aware of complaints against Mr. Sandusky, a longtime Penn State assistant coach, as early as 1998. The distinction is potentially worth millions of dollars to Penn State. The insurer, Pennsylvania Manufacturers’ Association Insurance, is hoping the documents released Tuesday will show that Penn State should have informed it of Mr. Sandusky’s abuse as early as 1976, and thus allow the company to avoid reimbursing the university for tens of millions of dollars in settlements. The company contends that had it known about the episode, as well as others in the late 1980s, it would have declined to insure the university against sexual abuse lawsuits. Mr. Sandusky, 72, is serving 30 to 60 years in prison. In the deposition from 2014 released Tuesday morning, a man called John Doe 150 in the documents testified that Mr. Sandusky touched him inappropriately in a shower room in 1976, when he was 14 and attending a football camp. The accuser said that he cried out when Mr. Sandusky penetrated him with a finger, a cry loud enough for other campers to hear, and that he later reported Mr. Sandusky’s inappropriate behavior to adults at the camp. The next day, the accuser said, he sought out Mr. Paterno and described the encounter in the hallway of a football office building as Mr. Paterno was on his way to a meeting. “Is it accurate that Coach Paterno quickly said to you, I don’t want to hear about any of that kind of stuff, I have a football season to worry about?” a lawyer for the insurer asked the accuser, according to the deposition. “Specifically, yes,” the man replied. Mr. Paterno then walked away, the man said. The documents released Tuesday showed that Gary C. Schultz, a former university vice president, and Timothy Curley, a former athletic director, both of whom the report said knew about a 1998 allegation, cited the Fifth Amendment’s protection against   when asked questions about the scandal in 2015. The documents also said that Mike McQueary, an assistant coach who said he witnessed Mr. Sandusky molesting a boy in 2001 and subsequently told Mr. Paterno about it, had testified that he had also informed another Penn State assistant at the time, Tom Bradley, who in turn told Mr. McQueary that a previous assistant, Greg Schiano, had been aware of similar allegations in the 1990s. Mr. Bradley is currently U. C. L. A.’s defensive coordinator Mr. Schiano, later a head coach at Rutgers and for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, is now the defensive coordinator at Ohio State. A lawyer for Mr. Bradley denied Mr. McQueary’s assertions, saying he had become aware of the allegations only in 2001. Mr. Schiano responded on Twitter on Tuesday afternoon, writing, “I never saw any abuse, nor had reason to suspect any abuse, during my time at Penn State. ” In a statement Tuesday morning, a Paterno family spokesman continued the family’s defense of the coach. “The materials released today relating to Joe Paterno allege a conversation that occurred decades ago where all parties except the accuser are now dead,” the family said. “In addition, there are numerous specific elements of the accusations that defy all logic and have never been subjected to even the most basic objective examination. Most significantly, there is extensive evidence that stands in stark contrast to this claim. ” The university’s settlement with this accuser, the Paterno family spokesman added, “does not remotely validate the assertions about an uncorroborated conversation with Joe Paterno. ” Penn State’s president, Eric Barron, also released a statement Tuesday. “Although settlements have been reached,” he said, “it also is important to reiterate that the alleged knowledge of former Penn State employees is not proved, and should not be treated as such. Some individuals deny the claims, and others are unable to defend themselves. ” Tom Kline, a lawyer who represented a victim of Mr. Sandusky’s who has arrived at a settlement with the university, said in an interview that the depositions appeared convincing. “We now no longer have conjecture on some of the issues that relate to Joe Paterno,” he said, noting that the accusers were testifying as third parties. Most settlements took place before these depositions those who had already settled, Mr. Kline said, would have had no interest in lying. In May, Judge Gary Glazer of the Philadelphia County Court of Common Pleas ruled that while the insurer was responsible for settlements regarding events that occurred before 1992, it might not be for episodes of abuse that occurred after that date. While the documents released Tuesday could have significant repercussions in the lawsuit, it is unlikely they will affect Penn State’s   football program. Mr. Paterno is dead. Mr. Sandusky is in prison. The penalties Penn State agreed to as part of a settlement with the N. C. A. A.  —   including bowl bans, scholarship restrictions and a $60 million fine  —   have been carried out, and the N. C. A. A. was seen to lose credibility when it was revealed that it might have essentially bluffed its way into those penalties. After being rebuilt under Coach Bill O’Brien, the Nittany Lions are entering their third season under the highly regarded coach James Franklin. The team’s most immediate obstacles are not court documents but Ohio State, Michigan State and Michigan. Mr. Paterno ended his career after 46 seasons as Penn State’s head coach as the   football coach with the most wins, a distinction regained last year when the N. C. A. A. restored 111 wins it had vacated as part of the settlement. Mr. Kline noted that the information that became public in May and was sketched in fuller color Tuesday might never have seen the light of day had Penn State not elected to sue its insurer in 2013 over reimbursement. Calling the information dump “foreseeable,” Mr. Kline said of Penn State, “They would have weighed this consequence versus getting’’ paid tens of millions of dollars. He added, “Penn State doesn’t have the same interest as the Paterno family. ”