SAN DIEGO  —   The   dressed in yellow and brown on Monday, making the field at Petco Park look, from above, like a grill full of cheeseburgers. The homage to the host San Diego Padres, who once wore similar uniforms, helped distinguish Home Run Derby day from every other day of this curious baseball season. Home runs are up. Way, way up. Baseball arrived at the   break with hitters on pace for more than 5, 600 home runs, a level exceeded only once in history: in 2000, at the height of the steroid era. “I’d like to say that guys aren’t cheating,” said Stephen Vogt, the Oakland Athletics’ catcher. “Everybody’s going to speculate  —   right?  —   when the home run numbers go up. But we are cleaning up the game, and I hope that’s not the reason behind it. ” Before 2003, when baseball began testing for   drugs, we searched for reasons to explain the surge in home runs. Expansion, smaller ballparks and better nutrition all played a part  —   but history, rightly, gave steroids most of the blame. So what now? Besides Dee Gordon  —   last year’s National League leader in batting average and steals  —   the players caught in this season’s drug net have mostly been marginal. Perhaps some sluggers are beating the system, but a widespread cheating epidemic seems unlikely. But something is happening. Two years ago, there were 4, 186 home runs, or 0. 86 per team per game. That was the lowest figure in any of the last 20 full seasons, dating to 1996. This season, there are 1. 16 homers per team per game, up from 1. 01 in 2015. Put another way, at the current pace, home runs will rise by more than 700 over the previous season for the second year in a row. That’s a lot more balls soaring over fences, and one pitcher is keeping his theories private. “I’m not going to be the one who throws that stone,” said Washington Nationals starter Max Scherzer, who leads the National League in homers allowed. “I’m not going to sit here and say anything and make accusations. That’s not the way you do things. But if they are up significantly, it would be interesting to see what M. L. B. actually thinks about it. ” Mike Teevan, a spokesman for Major League Baseball, said the league does “extensive reviews of the performance of the baseball, and there have been no differences” to explain the increase in homers. Strikeouts, said starter Jon Lester of the Chicago Cubs, are also rising, and hitters are taking a different approach. “I know our hitting coach wants you to hit the ball in the air,” Lester said. “There’s no slug on the ground. Guys are willing to take their   to hit the ball in the air, and swing hard in case they hit it. ” That theory would seem to make sense, especially as hitters react to the increasing use of extreme infield shifts. Yet the overall percentage of fly balls has not risen. According to Fangraphs, it is 34. 2 percent now only two of the past 15 seasons have been lower. What has changed is that a greater percentage of fly balls are turning into home runs. At 12. 9 percent, that figure is the highest it has been since Fangraphs started tracking the statistic in 2002. At least in one sense, perhaps, throwing harder may be working against pitchers. “Secondary stuff isn’t as big of a thing as it used to be, I feel like,” Baltimore Orioles catcher Matt Wieters said. “It’s now, ‘Can you throw 98, 99?’ And a lot of breaking balls that are hanging end up getting hit out. “That’s my theory: The types of arms that are getting moved through the system are guys that can really throw hard, and command sometimes comes later for them. But they get to the big league level while they’re throwing hard, and then they learn command. Home runs, more times than not, are mistakes  —   they’re not the wrong pitch, they’re just mistakes in the middle of the plate. ” Vogt, the Oakland catcher, said he had been calling more fastballs up in the zone lately, because umpires seem more willing to call them strikes. Missing with a high fastball can lead to home runs, of course, and so can a poorly placed cutter. If a cutter does not dart sharply at the last moment, it is just a slower fastball that stays in a hitter’s bat path. “The cutter has become such a big pitch, and more guys are trying to throw it,” Vogt said. “But a cutter that doesn’t cut is a really good pitch to hit out. ” Vogt and other catchers, like San Francisco’s Buster Posey and Milwaukee’s Jonathan Lucroy, said they had noticed nothing different about the actual baseballs  —   which, of course, they handle just as often as pitchers, though not with the same intent. “We throw those things so much, we’d be able to tell if there’s something different about them,” Lucroy said. Lucroy pointed to recent changes at ballparks  —   like Petco Park, Citi Field and Marlins Park, where fences have all come in  —   as having an impact. But some pitchers, like Texas’ Cole Hamels, have thrived at smaller venues because they have multiple weapons to keep hitters guessing. Younger pitchers are rarely as skilled. “It’s not only having that second pitch, but having that third pitch,” Hamels said. “It’s easier for hitters to have success when it’s    —   a lot better than a 25 percent chance. So when guys don’t have four pitches they can essentially throw for strikes, that makes it a lot tougher. Guys are just homing in on certain counts and what guys have done statistically in the past, and they’re getting it. ” Daniel Murphy of the Nationals best embodies the trend around him. Murphy made the   team with the Mets in 2014, when he played a full season and hit nine homers. Now he has 17 to go with a . 348 average. Murphy emphasizes damage over contact, with startling results  —   and fastballs do not bother him. “Guys throw so hard now, you either become accustomed to it or you have to find another line of work,” Murphy said. “The more velocity you see, you’re able to slow it down a little more. ” That last sentence might only make sense in the peculiar orbit of baseball, where fast can mean slow and a trend can quickly reverse itself.