HIGHLANDS, N. Y.  —   The    veteran’s mind had been slipping away for years. With no relatives or close friends in his life, few people noticed when he was no longer a regular on the streets of this town in Orange County. Inside the motel room where the man, David McLellan, ended up, he slept in squalor, crowded by piles of furniture, old TVs and a lawn mower. He spent his days outside his door, sitting in a faded armchair, its torn fabric stained from his own urine. Neighbors would see him walking around the parking lot late at night, naked and confused, looking for cigarette butts on the ground. For Mr. McLellan, life at the U. S. Academy Motel, about 50 miles north of New York City, was a lonely blur, marked by what the police say was emotional abuse and neglect. When a detective asked him how long he had lived there, Mr. McLellan said he thought it had been four days. Mr. McLellan had been living there for about six years, exploited for much of that time by another man, Perry Coniglio, living at the motel, the police said. Mr. Coniglio posed as Mr. McLellan’s caretaker, withheld food and stole thousands of dollars of his monthly Social Security and pension benefits, said Joseph Cornetta, the detective in charge of criminal investigations for the Highlands Police Department. Mr. Coniglio, 43, was arrested on July 19 on preliminary charges of unlawful imprisonment, grand larceny, endangering the welfare of a vulnerable person, criminal possession of a weapon, menacing and possession of narcotics. He has pleaded not guilty. “The abuse was staggering,” Detective Cornetta said. “Perry Coniglio exercised custody and control over this individual for one purpose: financial exploitation. Keep the cash cow going. ” But how Mr. McLellan ended up languishing in such peril is largely shrouded in official secrecy. Motel records show a case worker from the Orange County Adult Protective Services agency dropped off Mr. McLellan in 2010, and the police say their records indicate the agency was aware of Mr. McLellan’s situation as recently as 2012. But the agency, citing the man’s privacy, said it could not confirm that it had had any role in the man’s care, and it would not say whether anyone from the agency had checked on Mr. McLellan in the years before the police uncovered the alleged exploitation. Monica Mahaffey, a spokeswoman for the State Office of Children and Family Services, which oversees local adult protective agencies, said privacy rules precluded the state from disclosing whether it was investigating the county’s handling of Mr. McLellan’s needs. It is not uncommon for older people like Mr. McLellan to slip through the cracks and become vulnerable to fraud and abuse from caretakers, experts say. According to a 2011 study, 141 out of 1, 000 older New York State residents have experienced an   event since turning age 60, but only a small portion of these cases are brought to the attention of local authorities. In 2010, the police in the village of Highland Falls received a call from a local bank employee who suspected that a man was posing as Mr. McLellan’s relative. The police referred the bank employee to the county’s Adult Protective Services agency, the police chief, Kenneth Scott, said. In April 2012, the department received a complaint that Mr. Coniglio had thrown a burning piece of paper into Mr. McLellan’s window. When officers responded to the call, Mr. McLellan told them the situation was a misunderstanding, Chief Scott said. About two weeks later, Adult Protective Services requested that the police perform a welfare check on Mr. McLellan. Officers found “nothing to report,” the chief said. It was a drug investigation by the police from the Town of Highlands, a neighboring jurisdiction, that eventually led investigators to Mr. McLellan. (The town’s police station is just steps from the motel, but the motel sits just across the   border, and the town police never received any reports related to Mr. McLellan while he was living at the motel, Detective Cornetta said.) But according to people who live at the motel, the troubles were no secret to those in earshot. For years, they had heard constant screaming between the two men. “You felt that something was just not right,” said Carmine Bloise, who lived two doors down from Mr. McLellan and Mr. Coniglio for about two years. But fearing he would be kicked out for attracting the attention of law enforcement, Mr. Bloise said he did not report the suspicious relationship to the police. About a month ago, though, one resident of the motel decided to speak up. Natasha Blanc, a former home health aide whose room was opposite Mr. McLellan’s, reported the relationship to the police. Detective Cornetta said he encouraged her to record videos of the interactions between Mr. Coniglio and Mr. McLellan. “He was like a lost little kid,” Ms. Blanc said of Mr. McLellan. “He can’t speak up for himself, so someone has to do it for him. ” One video in particular persuaded the detective to make an arrest. In the video, Mr. Coniglio is seen charging into Mr. McLellan’s room with a long wooden stick, cursing at him and seemingly threatening him. Mr. Coniglio is heard screaming at the older man to grab his bowl to be filled with his meal  —   “like a prisoner,” Detective Cornetta said. Since his arrest, Mr. Coniglio has been held in the Orange County Jail. On the day of the arrest, the authorities escorted Mr. McLellan out of his room, sending him to a hospital for treatment and placing him under the care of Adult Protective Services. A walk through Mr. McLellan’s room revealed flashes of his isolated time in the motel: a filthy, molding bathroom trash a table covered in cigarette ash  —   but there also were snippets of his identity, like a wooden bracelet with Catholic images of the Virgin Mary. The man’s former neighbors in Fort Montgomery, less than two miles south of the motel, recalled Mr. McLellan’s life before his mind succumbed to dementia. Mr. McLellan, originally from New Jersey, is believed to have served in the Navy during the Korean War, Detective Cornetta said. For many years he worked in the Ford assembly plant in Mahwah, N. J. until it closed in 1980, his former neighbor, David Tonneson, said. Mr. McLellan then became a registered nurse and moved to a   trailer on a hill on Hemlock Street in Fort Montgomery, where he lived for decades, neighbors said. Many in town knew him for the six goats he kept on his property, said Mr. Tonneson, a volunteer firefighter and retired contractor in the neighborhood. “Everybody knows who the goat man was,” he said. Mr. McLellan served as a caretaker for his mother, who lived with him for a number of years until her death, said Cathy McCutchen, who used to live next door. But after Mr. McLellan’s retirement and his mother’s death, something changed. He stopped being able to take care of himself, and his house started falling apart. He would spend nights in the barn with his goats because he had no heat in his house, Mr. Tonneson said. More than six years ago, local officials condemned his house and his animals. Mr. McLellan spent about two months staying in the homes of parishioners of his church in Fort Montgomery and of its former pastor, the Rev. Jack Arlotta, now at St. Stephen the First Martyr Parish in Warwick, N. Y. Shortly after, Father Arlotta said, Mr. McLellan “sort of disappeared. ” At the motel where he ended up, the owner, Iftihar Malik, would take him to the bank to collect his benefits, Detective Cornetta said. Then, Mr. Coniglio moved into the motel and began working as Mr. Malik’s   maintenance worker. He moved into the only motel room with a full kitchen, next door to Mr. McLellan’s room. In an interview, Mr. Malik said he did not know anything about the alleged financial exploitation or abuse and believed Mr. Coniglio was taking care of Mr. McLellan. Mr. Malik said the criminal investigation was an “exaggeration. ” “Tell me, who is washing the clothes?” Mr. Malik said. “Who is cutting the hair?” Mr. Coniglio’s lawyer, Brad White, said, “There’s certainly more to the story. ” Mr. Coniglio’s aunt, Phyllis Coniglio, said she felt her nephew was trying to help the veteran but was battling his own mental health problems and was not competent enough to be the man’s caretaker. “I think he just got stuck with it,” Ms. Coniglio said. “This man Dave was just shuffled off to somebody. ” The police are still investigating others who might have contributed to, or covered up, Mr. McLellan’s abuse, Detective Cornetta said. “For whatever reason, nothing was ever done,” the detective said. “This is a veteran who got left behind. ”