(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • Trump’s military record. Donald J. Trump’s criticism of the parents of a slain Army captain who was Muslim has drawn new scrutiny to his five deferments from the Vietnam draft, including one for bone spurs in his feet. Mr. Trump had criticized  the fallen soldier’s mother, Ghazala Khan, for standing silently while her husband, Khizr, spoke at the Democratic National Convention. Ms. Khan is a Gold Star Mother, and we explain the term. Sales of   versions of the Constitution are soaring after Mr. Khan’s speech. On the campaign trail, Hillary Clinton is targeting a skeptical crowd: white male voters. The billionaire investor Warren Buffett endorsed her on Monday, as she seeks the support of the business community, which traditionally votes Republican. • U. S. attacks ISIS in Libya. The strikes in Surt on Monday were part of a new military campaign against the extremists’ stronghold in North Africa, the Pentagon said. The militant group’s online posts calling for mayhem at the Olympics have led to a sense of urgency in Rio de Janeiro. • New call for reparations. Dozens of groups tied to the Black Lives Matter coalition have released a series of demands to lawmakers, including reparations for past and continuing harm to  . In Chicago, the police department is facing criticism after an officer’s body camera failed to record a fatal shooting of a black teenager. There’s been a surge of interest in joining the ranks of the police in Dallas since the sniper attack last month. And tonight is National Night Out, the country’s “night out against crime,” which aims to strengthen   ties and includes more than 16, 000 events. • Top police commander to step down. William J. Bratton, the commissioner of the New York Police Department and one of America’s most recognized law enforcement figures, is leaving his post next month for a job in the private sector. • Health roundup. Researchers are close to bringing to market a daring new treatment: cell therapy that turbocharges the immune system to fight cancer. More locally spread Zika infections have been identified in Miami, leading federal health officials to issue a rare travel warning in the U. S. • Scandals plague Israel’s leader. Leaks of accusations and investigations large and small confront Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is in his fourth term and faces a new inquiry, but he has shown he can slip away from accusations with   ease. • The next U. S. president is more likely than not to end up backing, if not embracing, more deficit spending. And both parties are bashing trade deals, after once supporting them. • McDonald’s is taking steps to join the   movement, and plans to introduce buns without   corn syrup and McNuggets without artificial preservatives. • U. S. companies are increasingly moving headquarters to cities, partly to lure younger employees. • Setting the Olympic stage. We look at athletes who should have won a medal but were deprived by cheaters, and introduce you to Yusra Mardini, a Syrian teenager who will compete on the refugee team at the Rio Games. Two documentaries, “The Nazi Games: Berlin 1936” and “The Boys of 36” air tonight on many PBS stations (8:00 and 9:00, but check local listings). The first details how today’s Games were shaped by the collaboration between the Nazis and the International Olympic Committee. The second is about nine University of Washington rowers who won an unlikely gold medal. • Frightful weather.   teams of researchers are analyzing droughts and other extreme weather events to see if global warming played a role. At the same time, climate change is taking on a prominence it has never had before in a U. S. presidential election. • On the music charts. Drake reached No. 1 for a 12th week. His “Views” has matched two other albums for   runs at the top: Alanis Morissette’s “Jagged Little Pill” (1995) and Santana’s “Supernatural” (1999). Anticipation is building for an album by Frank Ocean, the innovative and enigmatic RB singer. “Boys Don’t Cry,” is expected to be released on Friday through an exclusive deal with Apple Music. • In case you missed it. Among our most popular recent articles: Zimbabwe’s vice president lives in a $   hotel suite, on taxpayer money. We talked to about a dozen women who said they had experienced some form of sexual harassment or intimidation at Fox News, and found that San Francisco  —   once known as the Harlem of the West  —   has lost much of its black population and culture. • At the White House. President Obama will host Singapore’s prime minister for a state dinner. • Recipes of the day. This   soup balances the flavor of sweet, summer corn and tangy yogurt. For another spicy option, try this shrimp dish by Mario Batali. With one month until Labor Day weekend, time for a summer road trip is winding down. And your relaxation time will be even shorter if you get lost. That still happens in this age of GPS. Sometimes it’s even because of the technology. The most famous example might be the woman who drove 900 miles across several countries over two days, even though her destination was just 90 miles away in her own country, Belgium. The most tragic cases, when a device guides drivers down abandoned roads or uses outdated data, for example, can end in death, whether in a rural area like Death Valley National Park, or not far from Chicago. (Learn about GPS mishaps here and here.) A precursor to GPS, the Jones Live Map, had similar troubles keeping up with changes 100 years ago, though, it offered over 500 routes across the country. GPS, which stands for global positioning system, got its start in the U. S. military, which was trying to track Sputnik, the first artificial satellite launched by the Soviet Union in 1957. Scientists learned they could figure out its orbit by measuring the changes in the frequency of its radio signal. Today, satellites controlled from Schriever Air Force Base in Colorado transmit a constant signal emitted by their atomic clocks. Billions of devices, including your smartphone, carry a receiver that locks onto the signals to calculate your location. The first   GPS receiver became available in the 1980s, and now the technology is ubiquitous  —   mostly for the better. Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning. What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes. com. You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.