RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Germans rolled luggage into the Olympic Village, Slovaks stood proudly at the raising of their national flag, and a delegation from Benin posed for photos in yellow floral prints and   hats. Nearby, a woman from Kenya, barely five feet and all but unnoticed, signed off on her project to give an Olympic home to athletes who had none of their own. “Peace, unity through sports,” she wrote on a mural. Tegla Loroupe will participate in her fourth Olympics, this time not as a groundbreaking marathoner but as a peace ambassador bringing attention and compassion to the global refugee crisis. She is the leader of a group of 10 displaced athletes, known as the Refugee Olympic Team. It will march Friday in the opening ceremony, carrying the Olympic flag, serenaded by the Olympic anthem. Five of those athletes prepared for the Rio Games at a training camp operated by Loroupe in the hills outside Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. “I think I have the strength to prove that even small people can do something big,” she said. There is much to be wary and cynical about regarding the Summer Games  —   like the corruption and the doping and the commercialism  —   but the opening ceremony can provide a flickering respite from pessimism, a brief chimney sweep of the sooty Olympic ideal. Perhaps no one represents hopefulness in international sport more resolutely than Loroupe. She refused to succumb to a life of expected subservience as a young woman and has spent her postrunning career offering possibility instead of despair. “People treat these refugees like criminals,” Loroupe said Monday. “We need to treat them with respect. ” In the running world, Loroupe, 43, is celebrated as the winner of the New York City Marathon in 1994 and 1995, the first black African woman to win a major marathon, and a former   holder at the distance of 26. 2 miles. But her running has been eclipsed by her good will and activism. Under the banner of the Tegla Loroupe Peace Foundation, she has organized peace races among tribal rivals, trying to resolve conflicts with conciliation instead of weapons. She has mediated tribal disputes over grazing land, water and cattle raiding. According to news media reports in 2010, Loroupe persuaded 700 members of her tribe, the Pokot people, to surrender 38 guns as part of an   campaign. She has campaigned against female genital mutilation and fought for the broader rights of girls and women in patriarchal societies of East Africa. She operates a school for nearly 400 children, trying to keep them from becoming child soldiers, providing shelter for those orphaned by AIDS or dislocated by war, offering the nourishment of food and education in the face of poverty, conflict and cultural skepticism. In 2006, she was named a United Nations ambassador of sport. Later that year, she joined the actor George Clooney and others in spotlighting the   Darfur region of Sudan. “I always go where there are not good people,” Loroupe said. “I want to help them. ” In 2011, the mostly Christian and animist South Sudan gained its independence from mostly Muslim Sudan. All five of the refugee Olympians trained by Loroupe, two women and three men, are from South Sudan. They were identified during trials held to find runners in 2015 at two refugee camps inside neighboring Kenya. Across the world, there are 63. 5 million people displaced by fighting and persecution, according to the United Nations refugee agency. Those refugees are often unwanted by politicians and unable to reconnect with their families or any confident future. “In a year when refugees have found borders, camps and minds closed, the International Olympic Committee did something remarkably open,” wrote Minky Worden of Human Rights Watch. “The creation of a refugee team reframes the debate, to focus not on fear and pushing away but on inclusion and celebrating the resilience and potential all refugees represent. ” One of the refugee Olympic athletes from South Sudan is Yiech Pur Biel, 21, who runs the   meters and who fled his village in 2005 and stayed behind with a neighbor while his mother and brother headed toward survival in Ethiopia. He said he had not heard from them since. He has been told they are O. K. but he also knows that people are reluctant to give the worst news. “Tegla is our mother, not only our leader,” Biel said. “Most of us run because of war. Madam Tegla gives us a chance for other people to know the history of our lives. And we can forget what happened before. We can celebrate. We can have hope, like everyone else. ” Another of the refugee Olympians is Paulo Amotun Lokoro, 24, who runs the 1, 500 meters. He became lost while fleeing his Sudanese village in 2003, unable to keep up with his parents. He did not reunite with them until three years later at the Kakuma refugee camp in Kenya. That is where Loroupe found him last year. At first, Lokoro thought that he was not good enough to be a serious runner. Or that this might be some kind of a joke. “I was nowhere,” Lokoro said. “Now I am somewhere. ” It is an emotion that Loroupe understands. She is a Pokot, not a Nandi, the dominant Kenyan running tribe. In her native village of Kapsait, near the border with Uganda, community leaders did not want her to run because she was a girl. Her father did not want her to go to school. He expected her to be a babysitter. “Her father called her ‘Useless’ that was his name for her,” said Anne Roberts, a former coordinator of elite athletes for the New York City Marathon who has been a close friend of Loroupe’s for more than two decades. But, of course, Loroupe was not useless. She became a great runner. And when the men in her training group asked her to cook their food and wash their clothes, she explained that she was an athlete, not a maid. She and Roberts talked often about how a running career is short and the rest of life is long. “You’ll be judged on what you do after your career, not while it’s going on,” Roberts told Loroupe. In 2014, Thomas Bach, president of the International Olympic Committee, presented Loroupe with the idea of entering a refugee team in the Rio Olympics. Last year, the I. O. C. established a $2 million fund for the project. When the team was selected in June, Bach said: “This will be a symbol of hope for all the refugees in our world, and will make the world better aware of the magnitude of this crisis. It is also a signal to the international community that refugees are our fellow human beings and are an enrichment to society. ” The refugee Olympians will not win gold medals, Loroupe said, “but they will not disappoint. ” Still, Loroupe is already asking, “After the Olympics, what’s next?” It has been a constant struggle to raise money for her peace foundation. The Rio Olympics will end Aug. 21, but the dislocation and anguish of the refugees will not. “I don’t want this project to die,” Loroupe said. “I want to keep working with these refugees. I want to be their ambassador. ” She had another nickname when she was young: Chebaibai. The one who is happy and joyful.