After weeks of debate over Russia’s participation in the Rio Games, Olympic officials announced Thursday  —   less than 24 hours before the opening ceremony  —   that 271 Russian athletes would compete in Rio. They excluded more than 100 others, branding them tainted by a government doping program. But on the first day of the Games, the list of who would represent Russia in Rio was not necessarily final, as a new court ruling made it possible for seven more Russian athletes to be added to competition schedules at the last moment. What is the number of Russian athletes competing in Rio? It was 271 on Thursday. It looked likely to grow on Friday, possibly reaching 278. The seven additions could include swimmers, cyclists and a wrestler with previous doping violations who have served their punishments. Several, if not all, of those seven have traveled to Rio and are hoping for a favorable outcome, Russia’s sports ministry said. The governing bodies for those three sports must decide whether to approve the athletes in question, after which the Olympic committee must give final approval. A decision was expected Friday night, a spokesman for the Russian Olympic Committee said. Why the   uncertainty? And hadn’t all Russians who were caught doping already been barred from Rio? World sports’ highest court decided Thursday that Olympic officials’ decision to automatically exclude all Russian athletes who had been caught doping in the past but had served sanctions was “unenforceable. ” How did the Olympic committee react to the possibility that Russians with drug violations might compete in Rio? The committee said in a statement Friday that it was disappointed with the court’s decision but that it respected the ruling. How had officials justified barring Russians with doping histories, given that Olympians from other countries with past drug violations can compete? Russia has been accused of an extensive   doping program that corrupted the results of recent Olympics. After global antidoping officials said that they had strong evidence of cheating by Russia, Olympics officials said that Russian athletes would be considered guilty until proven innocent. The Olympic committee instructed sports authorities that no Russian who had ever been caught cheating should be allowed to compete in Rio and that even those with clean histories were not necessarily to be considered clean. Why has it taken so long to make a decision? The debate over Russia’s participation has been hotly disputed, testing loyalties in the political world of international sports. Antidoping officials and some top athletes called for a blanket ban on the entire country, while some Russian officials decried that punishment as a conspiracy to undercut their country. This week in Rio, the president of Russia’s Olympic committee said it was discriminatory to reverse the presumption of innocence to which athletes are usually entitled. The president of the International Olympic Committee said on Thursday that he and his colleagues had wrestled with a “difficult” question: “Can you hold an individual responsible for the wrongdoing of his or her country?” How many Olympians does Russia usually send to the Games? Around 400. The country sent 436 athletes to the last Summer Olympics, at which it won 82 medals. Russia tried to enter 387 athletes in this year’s Rio Games. Regardless of small final changes to the roster that may come, it will have at least 100 fewer athletes than it had hoped for. Only one athlete will represent Russia in track and field, one of its strongest sports and one in which it won 18 medals at the last Summer Games.