CHICAGO  —   An agency that investigates Chicago police conduct released dramatic videos on Friday showing two officers firing their guns at a fleeing stolen car in a   chaotic clash last week that led to another officer fatally shooting an unarmed    black man in the back. The videos were taken on July 28 from police body cameras and dashboard cameras, with some of the images jumbled as the officers ran, and the sound punctuated by gunfire and the officers’ own shouting and labored breathing. They show two officers firing at least 10 rounds in the span of three or four seconds at a stolen Jaguar after it narrowly missed hitting one of the officers. Seconds later, the Jaguar crashed   into a police S. U. V. and an occupant of the stolen car, Paul O’Neal, fled on foot. He disappeared from view behind a house as officers gave chase, and then several more shots rang out. Shortly afterward, officers are seen gathering around Mr. O’Neal, handcuffing him as he lay on the ground, and talking to each other about what had just happened. What the videos do not show is the fatal shooting itself. The officer who shot Mr. O’Neal was wearing a body camera, but officials have said it was not recording the Police Department said it was investigating whether the device was not turned on or if it had malfunctioned, and why. The medical examiner’s office reported that he was shot in the back. After watching the videos with Mr. O’Neal’s mother and sister, their lawyer, Michael Oppenheimer, called his death a murder. “We just came from watching Chicago police officers execute Paul O’Neal,” he told reporters. “It is one of the most horrific things I have seen, aside from being in a movie. These police officers decided to play judge, jury and executioner. ” At a news conference later, Mr. O’Neal’s sister, Briana Adams, 22, broke down repeatedly as she tried to talk about a brother she described as “everybody’s best friend,” who would cajole her out of a bad mood and had plans to go to a trade school. With tears streaming down her face, she said, “We just want answers, the truth, that’s it. ” What the videos show is “shocking and disturbing,” said Sharon Fairley, the chief administrator of the Independent Police Review Authority, the city agency that investigates reports of misconduct, and that released the videos. The city’s police superintendent, Eddie Johnson, praised the agency for releasing the video and pledged the department’s cooperation in the investigation. “My promise to the people of Chicago is that we will be guided by the facts and, should wrongdoing be discovered, individuals will be held accountable for their actions,” he said in a statement. Mr. Oppenheimer charged that the absence of a recording from the officer who shot Mr. O’Neal was intentional, part of a   by the officers, and he called for a special prosecutor to take over the investigation immediately. The shooting is another blow to a city already suffering from high crime and mistrust between the police and black residents, and a setback for a department that is trying to shed a reputation for excessive force and secrecy. Still, the release of the video eight days after a shooting marks a striking turn for a department and a watchdog agency that have long been accused of withholding information about police misconduct. The three officers who fired their guns were stripped of police authority pending an investigation  —   an unusually swift response, and harsher than ones the department has taken in the past. Mr. Johnson said the videos indicated the officers may have violated departmental policy. Dean C. Angelo, Sr. president of the local police union, called for a careful, impartial review of what occurred. “While there are multiple aspects to consider pertaining to the released videos, it is important to be mindful of how rapidly this event unfolded,” he said in a written statement. “While this case remains fluid in nature, it is of critical importance to every Chicagoan to not rush to judgment and to allow the systems in place to play out. ” Anthony Guglielmi, a spokesman for the Police Department, said department officials would not specify what the officers might have done wrong because it is the police review agency’s job to make such determinations. But in 2015, a department policy was revised to restrict circumstances in which officers may fire their guns into a moving car. The new rule bars officers from shooting into a vehicle when the vehicle is the only threat against them in this case, the officers kept firing after the car had passed them. In firing at the car, the officers were also firing in the direction of the police S. U. V. the Jaguar collided with moments later. That raises the possibility that the officers in the S. U. V. thought they were being shot at. The officers’ own recorded conversations after the shooting hint at how unclear the picture might have been. “Who was that shooting in the alley?” one asks. “They shot at us, too, right?” an officer asks. At one point, an officer laments, “I’m going to be on the desk for 30 goddamn days now. ” “I shot him,” the officer says. Pointing at another officer, he says, “He almost hit him. ” For more than a year, the city refused to make public video of an officer shooting Laquan McDonald, 17, releasing it in November only after being ordered to by a judge. Officer Jason Van Dyke, who shot Mr. McDonald 16 times, has been charged with murder. That video caused an uproar in Chicago and around the country, as Mr. McDonald joined a long list of black people whose deaths at the hands of the police have prompted a national debate about law enforcement and race relations. The angry reaction to his death, and the Chicago Police Department’s handling of it, became a political crisis for Mayor Rahm Emanuel, spurred promises of reforms, and prompted the mayor to fire the previous police superintendent, Garry McCarthy. The city later adopted a policy that video of police shootings should be made public within 60 days, and even by that standard, the release in the O’Neal case was remarkably quick. In a statement, Mr. Emanuel noted a shift. “I support Superintendent Johnson’s quick and decisive action over the past eight days, which I believe underscores the fundamental change in how the city handles police shootings,” he said. “I know Sharon Fairley is already investigating this case, and I have faith that she will reach a conclusion and issue recommendations with all deliberate speed. ” As video recording has become ubiquitous, it has come to be seen as the ultimate evidence when there are charges of police misconduct. But many cases have shown that the evidence can be murky and subject to differing interpretations, and even when police critics think the evidence is clear, it often does not lead to prosecution of the officers. Ms. Fairley, in a statement, urged people to remember that the video is just one among many pieces of evidence “to be gathered and analyzed when conducting a fair and thorough assessment of the conduct of police officers in performing their duties. ” On the evening he was killed, Mr. O’Neal was riding in a Jaguar convertible that had been reported stolen, driving through the city’s South Side about 7:30 p. m. It was still daylight. The car was chased by the police through a neighborhood of   houses. Two officers in an S. U. V. who joined the chase turned a corner and found themselves headed straight toward the stolen car. They fired at the car as it passed and sped away, just before it hit the other S. U. V. They then joined the chase through backyards to the back entrance of a home where Mr. O’Neal, his back soaked in blood beneath a backpack, lay dead or dying.