Does Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker and     hopeful, think Donald J. Trump has the mental fitness to be president of the United States? His answer in an interview on Monday was not very convincing. “Yeah, and my answer would be, sure,” Mr. Gingrich said, after a sigh and a pause, in an interview for the first episode of “The ” a new politics podcast from The New York Times that was published on Tuesday. The former speaker declined to give a more emphatic endorsement of Mr. Trump’s psychological sturdiness when the interviewer, Michael Barbaro, asked if he could “be more forceful than ‘sure.’ ” Instead, Mr. Gingrich said he believed Mr. Trump was “at least as reliable as Andrew Jackson” and praised him for possessing “a personality which will by definition not be normal. ” Here is a transcript of the exchange: (Andrew Jackson was last in the news when the Treasury Department decided in April that the former president, a slaveholder known today for both his persecution of Native Americans and advocacy for poor whites, would share the $20 bill with the former slave and abolitionist Harriet Tubman.) Questions have mounted among both Democrats and Republicans about whether Mr. Trump possesses the mental fitness and strength of character to serve as president, and his poll numbers have fallen as a result. Mr. Gingrich acknowledged Mr. Trump’s trouble in his interview with “The  . ” “The last two weeks have been peculiarly bad for Trump,” he said. Mr. Trump has appeared to inflict much of that damage upon himself, including by engaging in a   feud with the parents of a fallen United States soldier who criticized him at the Democratic National Convention, confounding many of his supporters. As his numbers have fallen and his troubles have grown, some Republican officials have begun to publicly reject his candidacy. On Monday Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said she would not vote for Mr. Trump, citing his “constant stream of cruel comments and his inability to admit error or apologize” to those he has attacked. Earlier that day, 50 national security officials who served in Republican administrations signed an open letter warning that he “would put at risk our country’s national security and  ” if he won the election.