Katie Ledecky and the U. S. 4x200 relay team won the gold medal Wednesday, to the surprise of no one. Since the event became a part of the Olympics in 1996, the Americans have won five of six. Ledecky anchored a squad that included Allison Schmitt, Leah Smith and Maya DiRado to a 1. 84 second victory over Australia, the only other country to triumph in the event at the Summer Games. Canada was third. The Americans were trailing by   of a second when Ledecky hit the water. She split 1 minute 53. 74 seconds, to stop the clock at 7:43. 03. Read Karen Crouse’s story on the race. Daryl Homer of the United States won the silver medal in men’s saber, missing a chance to become the first American man to win an Olympics fencing gold medal in more than a century. Homer, who fences out of the Manhattan Fencing Center and was seeded 10th, beat fencers from Kazakhstan, Germany and Iran on the way to the final. The gold medal match was aggressive and quick, like most saber matchups. Homer quickly fell behind Aron Szilagyi of Hungary and lost,  . With the silver, Homer became the first American medalist in individual saber since Peter Westbrook won a bronze in 1984. The last American gold medal for a man in fencing came at the 1904 St. Louis Games in the single sticks event, in which combatants belted each other with long wooden sticks. The winner, Albertson van zo Post, prevailed over a field of three, all of them Americans.  —   VICTOR MATHER The American cyclist Kristin Armstrong won her third consecutive gold medal in the individual road time trial on Wednesday, becoming the first person to win the same Olympic cycling event three times in a row. What’s more, Armstrong  —   no relation to Lance  —   accomplished the feat one day shy of her 43rd birthday, which also makes her the oldest woman to have won an Olympic cycling gold medal. “We’ve been told we should be finished at a certain age, but there are a lot of athletes out there who are showing that’s not true,” said Armstrong, who overcame a nose bleed at the   mark. Armstrong completed the 29.  (18. ) course in 44 minutes 26. 42 seconds, just ahead of Olga Zabelinskaya of Russia, who finished in 44:31. 97. Anna van der Breggen of the Netherlands won the bronze medal. Soon after her win, Armstrong got a pat on the back from another athlete who seemed to defy age: Barry Bonds. A cycling enthusiast, Bonds posted an image from the race and wrote, “Congratulations Kristin Armstrong 3 time gold medalist,” on his Instagram account. Remarkably, Armstrong almost did not make it to Rio. She came out of retirement in 2015, three years after calling it quits. Her latest gold medal was “the most gratifying,” she said. “It was the hardest of my Olympic journeys. ”  —   KEN BELSON Men’s basketball: The United States had an unaccustomed scare in men’s basketball, beating Australia by only  . The U. S. trailed by 5 at the half and needed some big 3’s late by Carmelo Anthony to win. Patty Mills of the San Antonio Spurs led Australia with 30 points Anthony had 31 for the United States. Men’s gymnastics  : Kohei Uchimura of Japan, often called the greatest gymnast ever, retained his title. He delivered a 15. 8 with a difficult high bar routine to overtake Oleg Verniaiev of Ukraine on the final apparatus. The practically unbeatable Uchimura has also won the last six world championship   titles. No Medal for U. S. Rugby Sevens: The American men lost to Fiji,   and were eliminated from the competition. The United States missed by the narrowest of margins: Its point differential,   was just 1 short of that of New Zealand, which grabbed the last spot in the quarterfinals. Different sports require different body types, right? Volleyball players are usually long and lean. Weight lifters, not so much. So we asked a bunch of Olympians and Paralympians to strip down to their underwear (or whatever they felt comfortable with) so you could try to guess which sport they compete in. How many can you guess correctly? More Gold for U. S. Swimmers: Katie Ledecky picked up her second gold medal of the Rio Games, and Michael Phelps racked up the 20th and 21st of his career Tuesday. Ledecky won the 200 freestyle, expected to be the toughest of her individual races. Here’s how the race went down. Phelps won his signature event, the 200 butterfly, and exulted afterward, gesturing as if to say he would take on all comers. To top it off, he later swam the anchor of the men’s 4x200 freestyle relay, which the United States won easily. Here’s a look at Phelps’s night. Green Pool? An unsettling thing happened at the Olympic diving pool on Tuesday: The water inexplicably turned green, just in time for the women’s synchronized   platform diving competition. Officials said they did not know what had caused the trouble, exactly. But they declared the water had been tested and was not dangerous. It was an unsettling sight, appearing to become greener and murkier as the day went on, having been a lovely light blue on Monday. The British diver Tom Daley, who won a bronze medal in the same pool the day before, posted a photograph on Twitter showing the contrast between the colors of the pools. “Ermmm. ..what happened? !” he wrote. Here is the full article, including an interview with a pool repairman in California who has some ideas about what might be causing the greenness. U. S. Gymnasts Dominate: Simone Biles, Laurie Hernandez, Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas and Madison Kocian lived up to expectations as prohibitive favorites by putting up the highest total score in every apparatus. Russia won silver and China bronze. The margin of victory was a whopping 8 points. See how they did it here.