The Greenland shark is a ludicrously late bloomer. This   Arctic predator reaches sexual maturity when it’s about 150 years old. Though more than a century of prepubescence might sound bad, there’s a bright side for the sea creature. Once it hits adulthood, it still has another hundred years to live. Maybe even more. The Greenland shark has a life expectancy of at least 272 years, according to a study published Thursday in Science. If its findings are correct, that makes it the   vertebrate animal in the world, surpassing some sea turtles (about 100 years) tortoises (between 100 and 200 years) and bowhead whales (around 200 years). But that number, 272, doesn’t tell the whole story of these underwater geezers. Researchers estimated that two of the 28 Greenland sharks they observed were over three centuries old. “The oldest shark that we’ve analyzed, it’s amazing,” said Julius Nielsen, a doctoral candidate at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark and lead author on the study. In their paper they report that it could be 392 years old. But even that number, 392, doesn’t complete the story. The oldest shark could actually be 120 years older, he said. Mr. Nielsen and his colleagues used radiocarbon dating and statistical methods to measure the sharks’ ages. The tools can only provide accurate age ranges for each specimen, not an exact age. “We are 95 percent certain that it is between 272 and 512 years,” Mr. Nielsen said. “This is the first time ever anyone has made an age range of uncertainty of 240 years and they still consider it a success. ” Even at the lower end of the range, the Greenland shark still takes the gold for living things with backbones in the   Olympics. To calculate the ages, the researchers studied the eye lenses of each shark they found. The eye lenses first develop when the sharks are still inside their mothers, and as time goes by, they grow like onions, adding layer after layer of tissue. By cutting away the layers and analyzing the nucleus of the center of the eyelens, the team can gauge how old each shark is. Similar techniques have been used to estimate the age of bowhead whales. All the sharks the team analyzed were females that were already dead. Previous studies had determined that the sharks become sexually mature when they are about 13 feet long. The new study determined that those that size or bigger were at least 150 years old. Males were left out because they were harder to find, but the team thinks life expectancy and the age when they reach adulthood will be similar. Greenland sharks are found throughout the North Atlantic. They are plump and gray, and many have a characteristic parasite latched to the corner of one or both eyes. Researchers aren’t sure what the parasites do, but they are ubiquitous among the species. The sharks are   adding about a centimeter a year. The biggest in the study was about 16. 5 feet, but they can potentially grow larger than 18 feet. A behemoth that big could be around 400 or 500 years old, according to Mr. Nielsen’s estimates. Impressive, but it’s still bested by some of Earth’s inhabitants that lack backbones, like the    ocean quahog, the 4, 847 year old bristlecone pine and the seemingly immortal jellyfish.