RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Maya DiRado saved her best race for last, winning the   backstroke in her final race before retiring to start a job with a management consulting firm in Atlanta. DiRado trailed Hungary’s Katinka Hosszu for the first 150 meters. Swimming next to Hosszu in the third lane, DiRado caught Hosszu with less than 25 meters left and   her by   of a second. DiRado, 23, was timed in 2 minutes 5. 99 seconds. Hilary Caldwell of Canada placed third in 2:07. 54. The duel between DiRado and Hosszu pitted two of the most successful swimmers of this Olympics. DiRado finished with two golds, one silver and a bronze. Hosszu, 27, who failed to win a medal of any color in her first three Games, collected three golds to go with her silver. The final was missing the   holder and defending champion, Missy Franklin, and the reigning world champion, Emily Seebohm, as neither advanced past the semifinals. DiRado was in Franklin’s semifinal heat on Thursday, and when she saw the times on the scoreboard, she swam over to a tearful Franklin and consoled her. DiRado said she had told Franklin that she was an amazing teammate and that the United States team loved her no less because she failed to make the final. The gesture meant the world to Franklin, who choked up as she said she would be rooting hard for her in the final. “For her to support me in the way she has is so incredible,” Franklin said. Hosszu said she was pleased with her medal haul. “Honestly, I’m superexcited,” she said. “This Olympics was a good one for me. ” It was dreamlike for DiRado, who finished second behind Hosszu in the 400 I. M. and placed third in the 200 I. M. also won by Hosszu. Her other gold came in the 4x200 freestyle relay, where DiRado took the place of a struggling Franklin. DiRado considered the backstroke event her “fun third event. ” She looked shocked when she glanced at her time at the end of the final and saw a “1” next to her name. “The emotions definitely came out as soon as I finished,” DiRado said. And she is done. To end her career with an Olympic gold medal, DiRado said, “is the perfect way to go out. ”