Does this seem like a red flag? You visit a company’s website, and when you click the “Executive Team” link, up pops “Oops, this page could not be found!” The photograph at the top of the page is of identical brown chairs around a conference table. All the chairs are empty. Maybe the executives at Global Efficient Energy are really shy. If that is the case, the Haggler strongly recommends that they delete the page. It leaves a    impression of a company that describes itself as a “major player in the solar roof marketing since 2011” (Yes, there is either an extraneous or missing word in that description.) Clearly, the Fort   G. E. E. could use some help shaping its public image. Especially because in recent months, more than a few of its customers have contacted the Better Business Bureau with complaints like this one sent to the Haggler: Q. Global Efficient Energy promised to cut our energy bill in half with a solar power system that it would install at our house. The system cost $19, 900, which we would pay off in monthly installments over the course of six or seven years. Once we owned the system outright, the company said, we’d pay next to nothing for energy. That sounded great. But after the company installed solar panels on our roof,   fans in our attic and a bunch of   foam and sealants, our electricity bill barely changed. We saved about $9 a month. I called to vent to the guy who sold us the system, but he had left the company. Now nobody will return my calls or emails. Having read online about other customers with similar problems, I’ve lost all faith in G. E. E. I’d like the system removed and our $19, 900 loan canceled. Can you help? Chad Gregg Forney, Tex. A. Mr. Gregg is right about the negative online chatter about G. E. E. On the website of the Better Business Bureau there are a few dozen complaints from some very   customers. Three choice and recent excerpts: “After having the solar panels for two months we have not seen a decrease but rather an increase in our electric bill,” wrote one. “This experience has been the longest and most frustrating nightmare of our lives. ” “Company has set my financial goals back years,” wrote another. “This was the worst financial decision I ever made in my lifetime,” wrote a third. “They will only communicate with you when they want to sign you up for a sale. After spending $25, 000 I get on average 20 percent saving in electricity. ” Other customers on the B. B. B. site praised the company, and a 2014 Forbes column about home solar power installation companies included some very flattering paragraphs about G. E. E. At the time, the company was in six locations and had plans to open eight more offices, having grown in three years to $40 million in annual revenue from $5 million. What was the secret to G. E. E. ’s success? “It’s all about customers,” Abe Issa, the C. E. O. and founder, told Forbes. “Our sales, installation and customer service personnel are trained to build relationships with customers that will last a lifetime. ” A lifetime! Some of your customers, Mr. Issa, would settle for a few months, if those months included a bit of communication. When the Haggler contacted G. E. E. the chief financial officer of the company, David Noyes, quickly returned the call. He acknowledged that the company’s service had suffered because it had expanded too quickly and that it was in the process of closing offices to focus exclusively on Texas. He also said the company was adding customer service representatives. After studying some details, he concluded that Mr. Gregg was actually doing quite nicely with his system and would do even better through the rest of the summer. And thus commenced an extended negotiation. To Mr. Noyes’s credit, he reached out directly to Mr. Gregg, hoping to demonstrate, with a lot of statistics and technical terms, that the system was a money saver. (Note to readers: Don’t get involved with solar power if you dislike math.) When the Haggler asked for an update in early July, the two sounded far apart. Mr. Noyes had offered to add some solar panels at no charge. Mr. Gregg wanted nothing to do with G. E. E. anymore. This one seemed destined for the bin in the Haggler Cave of Justice marked “Permanent Impasse. ” But on July 22, Mr. Noyes left a message on the Haggler’s voice mail that heralded a breakthrough. “We’re giving him a full credit for his purchase and in fact buying out his loan,” Mr. Noyes said. “We are removing the solar panels and letting him keep the foam insulation. And he’s happy with it. ” When asked what had prompted this turn of events, Mr. Noyes wrote, “Basically, the economics were not working for him. ” The final deal was a little different from the one Mr. Noyes described on that voice mail message. G. E. E. later said it ended up leaving the solar panels on Mr. Gregg’s home. The Haggler assumes that Mr. Gregg is pleased, but certitude here is impossible. It turns out that as part of this arrangement, Mr. Gregg signed a confidentiality agreement. So he stopped answering questions. Others will have to speak now. Has G. E. E. improved its service, as promised? Write and let the Haggler know.