Updated, 3:41 p. m. The heavy rain started on Friday, and as flooding began in towns across the Gulf Coast, the governor of Louisiana declared a state of emergency. By Saturday the waters were raging: the National Guard was pulling people from their homes, rivers were cresting at historic levels, cars and buses had overturned and the worst was ahead. It was not until Sunday night, at 8:20 p. m. that The New York Times posted a   story on its website, which appeared Monday in print. Readers trying to follow the news might have come across a wire story before Sunday, but The Times had devoted no staff resources before then. Only today has a staff writer reached the flood areas  —   Campbell Robertson, who until now has been covering the floods from dry ground in New Orleans. Many readers have expressed disappointment in the coverage. Here’s Catherine Holmes, of Georgia, who wrote in Sunday afternoon. “Baton Rouge and residents north and east are in the midst of a disaster and I see nothing on The New York Times’s front page. Hundreds of people have been stranded on   since yesterday morning, and just a few hours ago got some water delivered to them,” she wrote. “Disappointing that Trump’s latest gaffe and the Olympics totally dominate your front page this morning, when so many in south Louisiana are suffering. ” There was also this from Laura Esfeller, who grew up in Louisiana: “I am outraged that The New York Times is not covering the devastating flooding in Louisiana! People are stranded, have lost everything and are dying, and the nation’s newspaper of record has done no original reporting on this? Make this a priority!” The Times is not the only news organization being criticized for doing too little too late on the floods. Even so, from my scanning of the media’s reaction, The Times’s performance seems particularly weak. I asked national editor Marc Lacey what explains the limited coverage so far. “I think it’s a big story and I think we were on it,” he said. “It’s clear there’s extensive devastation. ” When I pushed about the slow start, Lacey said, “We definitely could have done more and we’re going to do more. Stay tuned. ” (The Times published two additional   stories Tuesday afternoon.) Lacey said The Times has covered the floods with wire stories and photography, and with two   stories. He said the paper used a stringer in the region to help with the reporting. If there was someone on the ground, it is not very evident to me from the stories that were produced. Most of the quotes from residents, or descriptions of the scene or events, appear to be taken from television or were credited to other news organizations or social media. In other words: aggregation. No doubt this is a busy news period, and the fact that it is August compounds the usual challenges of getting available staff to the site of the news. But a news organization like The Times  —   rich with resources and eager to proclaim its national prominence  —   surely can find a way to cover a storm that has ravaged such a wide stretch of the country’s Gulf Coast. Especially when it has brought devastating floods, once more, to the brave state of Louisiana.