Fred Astaire, as the famous saying goes, may have been a great dancer, but Ginger Rogers did everything he did  —   only backward and in high heels. At least she had gravity on her side. Synchronized swimmers often perform   and without air. Yes, they adamantly believe in the power of theater, as evidenced by their bejeweled bathing suits, gelatin   hair and   lipstick smiles, but they’re not just fooling around. Underwater for about   of each performance, synchronized swimmers require stamina, flexibility, endurance and, always, poise. They are Ginger Rogers, dancing in an   pool. Earlier this week at the Rio Olympics, synchronized swimming could be seen in the duet competition  —   the lithe Russians, Natalia Ishchenko and Svetlana Romashina, nabbed the gold. (The team event concluded Friday.) In both events, synchronized swimming continues to make a case for itself as a bewitching, if oddly    Olympic event. It falls between the cracks of sport and art in a delightful way. If synchronized swimming is viewed as a sport, it should be considered a sport of the soul, in which years of training lead to transcendence and performers mask effort at all times. Elegance of line isn’t merely an ambition, it’s a duty, as technique is wound into artistry and artistry feeds back into the technique. As for the choreography? It can’t be a centimeter out of place. That virtuosity has been even more salient at these Olympic Games, where sports like gymnastics have so emphatically embraced acrobatic force over grace. In synchronized swimming, etherealness is captured in an extreme merging of agility and power. Synchro, as its known, became an Olympic sport in 1984 and was once referred to as water ballet. While it shares many of the same qualities as ballet  —   the hard training, pointed feet, a precise port de bras (or carriage of the arms) musicality and the constant striving for unattainable perfection  —   synchronized swimming is its own watery beast. A ballerina’s pointe shoe has something in common with water, the swimmer’s medium. Each makes it possible for a performer to be ethereal each gives the illusion of floating. In water, swimmers can perform feats of technical bravura  —   lifting a partner without touching the bottom of a pool (that’s against the rules) or moving together as their legs, pointing out of the water, spin in tandem before disappearing beneath the surface. Of course, technique makes these dreamlike visions happen. In eggbeater kicks, also used in water polo, the legs alternate in clockwise and counterclockwise circles to keep the body upright different types of sculling  —   movements involving the hands and forearms to propel and stabilize  —   allow a swimmer to spin or stay afloat. Just as with ballet, it’s not about isolated movements, but using the whole body, which is evident with underwater cameras that show synchronized swimmers from head to toe. Suddenly, it makes sense: The core of the body is a vessel, with the hands and legs spinning like propellers to keep it suspended in aqueous space. It’s tempting to want to watch synchro only in those shots that capture what is above and beneath the water. Sculling is gorgeous. But when two bodies sprout from the surface of the water, and you can’t see what’s below, the effect is celestial. Again, it comes down to gravity. The challenges in ballet and synchronized swimming are daunting and, as a former ballet dancer and synchronized swimmer explained to me recently, equally difficult. It’s just that one involves defying gravity on land, and the other involves battling it to not sink in the water. (The key in both: abs, more abs, then even more abs.) In ballet, pain comes from impact with the floor in synchro, pain comes from thrusting up against the water. Since swimmers, like dancers, work so hard to hide their effort, it can be hard to see beyond the shiny package. But while the precision and insistence on glamour in synchronized swimming have much in common with the Rockettes or the work of a choreographer like Bob Fosse, with its   positions, synchro is neither   nor just full of girls playing dress up. In the water, where they are superhuman nymphs, artistry takes over. On land, they are women: sleek,   and modern. At the Olympics, synchronized swimming is an   sport, but in the rest of the world, men do it, too. There is a push to bring mixed pairs to the Olympics. Bill May, an American and one of the sport’s most admired practitioners, won a gold medal in his technical duet with Christina Jones and a silver in the free duet with Kristina Lum Underwood at the 2015 FINA World Championships in Kazan, Russia. Mr. May, 37, said he hoped that by 2020 mixed duets would be included in the Olympics if so, he would try to be there. Synchronized swimmers don’t age out as rapidly as athletes in other sports. “There are so many different aspects of synchronized swimming that don’t develop until later,” he said in an interview. “It’s like dance. The more you do it, the more you become in tune with your body, with your emotions, with your movements. ” The addition of a mixed duet would surely open the potential of choreography at the Olympics by allowing for a possibly more sensual meeting between partners at the moment, the   duets are a lot like watching doppelgängers  —   fascinating, yet limited. But there is at least one   pair to keep an eye on in 2020. This year for their free program,   Alexandri and Eirini Alexandri, from Austria  —   two sisters from a set of triplets  —   performed to “Swan Lake. ” It was as if they had swallowed and spit out Tchaikovsky’s score, leaving us to bask in its turmoil and thrills. They used their arms to distinction, crossing their wrists delicately as they floated briefly side by side and then, in a fury, pulling their arms out of the water like ferocious wings only to slap them back down again. They weren’t just in the water they used it. They came in 12th out of 12, but I know a swan when I see one.