The modern N. B. A. era began in the 1980s with two    if only   narratives. The rivalry between Larry Bird and Magic Johnson was transmitted to the public through sportswriters who typecast Bird as the white country bumpkin who gritted his way to excellence and Johnson as the black,   savant who whipped up his   talents into the best show on the hardwood. The cities of Boston (parochial and solemn) and Los Angeles (flashy and morally suspect) were featured in supporting roles that echoed the best and worst traits of the main characters. The reality behind “Bird versus Magic” was mostly irrelevant. What mattered was that the choice you were supposed to make between them was laid out as   as possible. In recent years, there has been a movement to replace these hoary old sports stories with an atomized landscape of numbers, stats and transactional analysis  —   and its adherents harbor a healthy amount of scorn for anyone who thinks differently. The move toward dispassionate stats is for the greater good sportswriting and fandom are too often unctuous and absurd and lend themselves to blanket moralizing in which the athlete is reduced to some lesson about life itself. If he does not hustle to first base on a ground ball, he becomes a   for the insufficient work ethic of his entire generation. If he happens to be an immigrant or from a racial minority, he becomes a   for his entire people. Despite the growing influence of the rationalists  —   the analysts and wonks who want to tear this all down  —   the mainstream sports industrial complex, especially in the loftier parts of the media, doesn’t share their vision. Narrative, with all its lies, still dominates. This has been a summer filled with silly sports schlock, spurred by NBC’s Olympic Games coverage, which carried on its tradition of dramatically lit,     reels: a young athlete learns to swim after meeting a dolphin at a water park in Tarzana, Calif. a towheaded future equestrian rider falls in love with a   horse in Darien, Conn. and so on. But the season’s story time had already started on July 4, when Kevin Durant, one of the most beloved players in the N. B. A. announced that he would be leaving the Oklahoma City Thunder for the Golden State Warriors. The expected take quake was set off, split along the usual lines. The new rationalists pointed out that Durant is a man and argued that nobody has any right to criticize any decision a man makes for himself and his family  —   before they quickly pivoted to their charts showing how Durant would change the Warriors’ expected win total. The traditionalists chanted their   odes to loyalty, competitiveness and Larry Bird and Magic Johnson, who each played their entire careers with one team. In Oklahoma City itself, the reaction played out much as it had in Cleveland when LeBron James left. Fans ripped up Durant jerseys and delivered weepy testimonials to the powerful bonds between a city and its star athlete. Overnight, Durant went from fan favorite to just the latest in the N. B. A. ’s litany of “selfish” players like Allen Iverson, Dennis Rodman or LeBron James, people who have come to embody everything that’s wrong with America. The next episode in this melodrama came in early August, when the Thunder and their other great player, Russell Westbrook, agreed to a contract extension. (People had speculated that he would leave too.) There were a lot of reasonable fiscal reasons for Westbrook’s decision  —   within the N. B. A. ’s byzantine   rules, it helped him maximize the money he could make over the rest of his career  —   and none of Westbrook’s other rumored destinations, whether Boston or New York or Los Angeles, guaranteed the success that Durant will surely enjoy with the Warriors. But Westbrook, who has mostly stayed quiet about Durant’s exit, will now be the living embodiment of every traditional thing that fans,   callers and screaming TV heads have demanded from athletes. He is staying with the   team with which he began his career,   saving the relevance of professional basketball in Oklahoma. He is also spurning, at least for now, the impulse to join a superteam with other superstars. Westbrook has decided to go it alone, and every Dennis from Dumont or Paulie from Passaic who calls in to WFAN and asks the   host Mike Francesa how he can possibly raise a son in a world where   disloyal athletes strut around unpunished has a new hero. Durant’s departure for Golden State seemed to be a bellwether moment, not only in the potential fortunes of two basketball teams but also in the way that sports news is transmuted into fable that has its own relatable and    lesson. The old, familiar moralizing, mainly delivered in   rants about loyalty or cowardice or traditions by a       on ESPN or Fox Sports, was met with a swift and forceful response by the rationalists. During the night of Durant’s announcement, in fact, it felt as if the counterreaction beat the reaction, as hundreds of rationalists tweeted   against an opinion that hadn’t even yet been aired. Sean Newell, writing for Vice Sports (I am also a correspondent at Vice) voiced their frustration when he wrote: “No one in the world should care where Kevin Durant plays basketball, and they certainly shouldn’t care enough to scream about it on ESPN. But sportswriters, even though their job is to report on   topics, write fiction. ” The problem with Newell’s critique is that nearly everyone who watches the N. B. A. except a small population of analytics wonks and insiders, really does care where Kevin Durant plays basketball. The zealotry of those in pursuit of some objective “truth” in sports, I’ve started to think, might be turning the entire spectacle into something that can no longer be recognized by a vast majority of fans. If you excise both fandom and the metaphorical weight of how the actions of an athlete might reflect on your own life, then what, exactly, are we watching? And why? The impulse to expunge all this and turn watching sports into an accounting exercise filled with insider jargon reflects some of the   elitism that has entered our national political conversation. While neither the stakes nor the messages are analogous, the mechanism through which they are conveyed feels very much the same. It is, in essence, a   between those who believe themselves to be in the know and the simps who lap up everything they watch on cable news. But not all narratives, whether political or athletic, are fictions, and there are still emotional and existential lessons that can be summoned by the sight of men and women chasing a ball around a field. There is ample ground between the current approach to N. F. L. news, for example, which amounts to treating it as either a stock ticker of microtransactions or a perpetual   machine, and the attitude given expression earlier this month by John Miller, chief marketing officer for NBC’s Olympic Games coverage, to explain why his network relegated several key Olympic events to tape delay. “More women watch the Games than men,” Miller said, “and for the women, they’re less interested in the result and more interested in the journey. ” A defense of sports narratives does not have to accept Miller’s retrograde thinking. That it so often has is not proof that every telling is corrupted, but rather that the authors have mostly failed. Durant versus Westbrook will be next year’s dominant N. B. A. motif because it brings in the full breadth of the rich, if at times overblown, metaphors that have always driven the best sportswriting: loyalty versus   the individual versus the empire and solidarity with the underdog versus the cynical efficiency of the superteam. The personalities of both players, on court and off, should be enough to compel our attention, supplemented by all the data analysis you could ever want. Even if we should balk at any easy moralizing, there’s no need to sacrifice a good story in the process.