RIO DE JANEIRO  —   It was 1:30 a. m. Saturday, and Mathieu Peisson, a French water polo player, had just come through the security gates at Club France  —   the same Olympic gathering spot where Ryan Lochte had started a night that became a diplomatic incident. “We finished competing on Sunday, and we’re now into Day 5 of our Olympic vacation,” said Peisson, a   and bearded   . “There are parties everywhere. Every night we’ve been to a different one, but this place is the best. ” Athletes and officials from other countries are entitled to disagree. There are more than 30 such national hospitality houses operating in Rio during the Games, coming in all vibes and architectural styles, from Denmark House, a chic tent next to a lifeguard station on Ipanema Beach, to Portugal House, which is actually a naval ship moored in the harbor, to the British House, a   mansion set in ornamental gardens. The hospitality houses act as promotional vehicles for sponsors, federations, future Olympic cities,   Olympic cities and even the countries themselves. The House of Switzerland is on the edge of the Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon  —   as it was during soccer’s 2014 World Cup  —   and has a synthetic ice rink and a snow globe. But the Olympic houses are above all social hubs: places for officials to meet and greet outside the stadiums and arenas, places for athletes to decompress from the Olympic Village after their competitions are over. “I think it was probably the Olympics in Barcelona in 1992 where the trend started in earnest,” said Michael Payne, a former marketing director of the International Olympic Committee. “It’s become an important part of the Olympic experience. ” The crowd streaming into Club France in the early hours Saturday included numerous 2016 Olympians, among them Dutch swimmers and French athletes from multiple sports. Many headed directly to the dance floor, a vast space located inside a converted indoor riding ring that had been used earlier in the day to fete four French medalists  —   a celebration complete with   video highlights, onstage interviews, an a cappella rendition of La Marseillaise and, finally, confetti dropping from the ceiling. But from midnight to 5 a. m. the hall is transformed into an Olympic discotheque with reserved seating near the back for Olympic athletes, who are given a special bracelet to reach the V. I. P. area. “Look at this,” said Peisson, whipping out the new smartphone he had received as part of his Olympic welcome package. “This is last night at about 3 a. m. Just incredible. ” He pulled up a   photo of several thousand people packed onto the dance floor, the same spot where Lochte said he and other American swimmers had stayed late into the night before taking the taxi ride that ended so badly. “What happened after they came here is above all regrettable,” said Denis Masseglia, president of France’s Olympic and Sports Committee. “It’s a shame for the image of swimming and for swimmers in general, who are exceptional athletes. You can say to err is human, but that was a whopper. ” Yet it did not dampen Masseglia’s enthusiasm for the French hot spot. “The Olympics are above all for the athletes to express themselves on the field of play,” Masseglia said. “But I’m very happy to see here every night that we have Australians, Canadians, Americans, all the athletes coming here to celebrate their performances and to have a good time. ” At Austria House, organizers expressed particular pride that, in what has been a downbeat Olympics for their country, they had managed to tempt medal winners from Germany inside (if you can’t beat your neighbors in the medal count, you can at least top them in the party department). The Austria House scene features an outdoor dance party that has been attracting a big crowd, which earlier in the week was jamming not to Brazilian samba but to Bon Jovi’s “Livin’ on a Prayer. ” Club France, located in the Sociedade Hípica Brasileira, is rare in this parallel Olympic universe in that it is open to the public. Visitors pay a small fee to get in and enjoy sports activities during the afternoon, food trucks and sponsor pavilions all day and entertainment all night. The crowd on Friday afternoon into early Saturday was overwhelmingly Brazilian. Masseglia said the club was attracting about 10, 000 visitors a day  —   not enough to break even on the project, although he insisted that profit was not his goal. “Club France started at the Seoul Olympics in 1988,” he said. “And it stayed private until 2008 in Beijing, where I met with a lot of athletes who asked me why can’t we have our fans with us and why can’t we celebrate our medals with the supporters?” He said the club in London, located near Tower Bridge, drew 85, 000 visitors during the 2012 Games. He expects double that in Rio and the club is also a subtle promotional vehicle for Paris’s 2024 Summer Olympic bid. “There were 300, 000 French people who lived in London plus all the French who could go across the Channel,” he said. “That’s not the case in Rio. So we knew we had to interest the Brazilians and all the overseas visitors here. ” Club France and the Danish, Dutch and Swiss houses are among the few open to the public. The majority, including U. S. A. House in Ipanema, are   or offer restricted access. “The U. S. A. House is far more about serving the athletes, family and sponsors it’s more internal looking,” Payne said. Bethanie   a   American Olympian, went to U. S. A. House on Sunday night to celebrate winning the gold medal in mixed doubles tennis with her partner, Jack Sock. “It was a great little setup: good food, good drinks and a lot of the athletes were just hanging out,” she said. “You walk around, see an athlete with a medal around their neck, ask them what it was for and how they got it. It’s a pretty cool atmosphere. “I know some of the houses can get rowdy. I talked to my regular doubles partner, Lucie Safarova, who is Czech, and she said after they had gotten the bronze medal she went to the Czech House, and they were dancing all night. ” Other hospitality venues are not linked to national delegations. Companies like Nike, Oakley and Red Bull have their own places, typically reserved for the athletes they sponsor and their entourages. “Basically, the athletes are going to their own house, other national houses or to their sports booths like Nike or Red Bull,” Payne said. “I don’t think the team leaders of the national Olympic committees are encouraging them to wander around to party elsewhere, evidence the latest news stories. ” Not all athletes have stayed inside the   bubble. But Payne estimates that some companies have spent over $10 million on their   projects. Nike reportedly spent over $3 million just to rent its vast and luxurious location on a private golf course. “I went to Nike after my gold medal and enjoyed a great presentation and recognition,” said Christian Taylor, the American triple jumper. Others have established a Rio presence for significantly less investment, including the International Volleyball Federation, which is using a primary school along Copacabana Beach as its Olympic hub in exchange for doing some renovations. “It is paying no rent but investing a   dollars in improvements that will leave a nice and simple legacy for the Games,” said Payne, who is a consultant with the federation. There are also less visible corporate efforts to connect with the athletes, one by Apple and its recent acquisition, the headphone company Beats. “Completely below the radar,” Payne said. “No P. R. nothing, just a private retreat where they invite a few hundred athletes each day. ” Peisson, the French water polo player, said he had visited. “They are not official partners of the Games, so they have done it by  ” he said. “They have villas in Rio, and they bring in athletes and they have headphones, massage and relaxation. It is very cool. ” As he spoke, the Christ the Redeemer statue was visible high overhead, illuminated atop a peak that was a dark silhouette against the   sky. “But we always keep coming back here,” Peisson said of Club France. And with that, Peisson headed off in the direction of the dance floor, which, at 1:30 a. m. was just beginning to get crowded.