Now that the Rio Olympics are over, inevitable questions about the city’s   legacy have surfaced. Rio de Janeiro, like every host city, hopes to continue reaping   benefits long past the closing ceremony, such as increased tourism and a bolstered world reputation. But things don’t always go as planned. In fact, cities rarely make a profit from hosting the Games, and often end up deep in the red. Rio initially planned on the Games costing about $3 billion, but the actual cost will be at least $4. 6 billion, according to a study by the University of Oxford. “If you’re looking to gain money from an Olympics, that’s not a good reason to be doing it,” said David Wallechinsky, president of the International Society of Olympic Historians. For the cities that learned this the hard way, specific venues can end up being reminders of a lack of foresight. The Bird’s Nest in Beijing is a cautionary tale. The   construction cost $480 million to build and an estimated $11 million to maintain annually. But by most accounts, it  does not draw enough visitors to justify the expense, despite the curious existence of a wax museum in its basement featuring former International Olympic Committee presidents. “Tourists actually pay money to have their photo taken next to a wax figurine of Sigfrid Edstrom, which is pretty weird,” said Gary Hustwit, who with a fellow photographer, Jon Pack, has visited several Olympic cities for their ongoing Olympic City photo project. While Beijing, which produced the most expensive Summer Games  in history, is often cited as an example of poor   execution, other cities like London, home of the 2012 Games, seem to be faring better. “I think what they did was realistic planning, and with a lot of the cities it’s just, kind of, speculative planning,” Mr. Wallechinsky said of London. He added that four years is not enough time to truly judge a host city’s legacy. Of course, not everything can be anticipated, like a war breaking out eight years after hosting the Games, as was the case for Sarajevo after it held the Winter Games in 1984. But even cities with such dire circumstances can endure and become worthwhile destinations. “Sarajevo is a fascinating and beautiful place,” Mr. Pack said. “It’s a pretty profound reminder of the consequences of war on a city and its people, and how an Olympic city can carry on. ” Whether they are from good planning or unanticipated events, indelible marks of 120 years of modern Olympic competition have been left on many host cities. Here are six that are worth exploring. If Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in London looks a bit emptier than it did four years ago, it’s not for a lack of trying. The expansive park near Stratford Station is now home to the largest urban beach in the country, nature trails and boat tours. (Oh, and a long metal tube attached to the    ArcelorMittal Orbit.) The park’s athletic facilities, including the aquatics center, velodrome and Copper Box arena, are open to the public for recreational use, and Olympic Stadium is now the home of West Ham United of the English Premier League. The   venues no longer exist, but, as the name suggests, they were meant to be temporary. “That to me seems like the real legacy of London 2012, the idea that maybe you don’t need to build dozens of new permanent sports facilities, which was what happened in Athens in 2004, and then struggle to figure out what to do with these things afterward,” Mr. Hustwit said. Another key feature is the ArcelorMittal Orbit, the tallest sculpture in Britain, which is now home to the world’s longest tunnel slide. While its  design was widely criticized  during the Games, its observation deck offers a    view of London. Development of the park will continue into at least the next decade. In the works is the addition of a cultural and education district, home of a new Victoria and Albert Museum “for the digital age,” a Sadler’s Wells dance theater and educational institutions. Have you been to a nice beach in Barcelona recently? For that, you have the 1992 Summer Games to thank. “Barcelona is a good example of using the Olympics almost as an excuse to improve a city,” Mr. Pack said. The beaches of today used to be an industrial dumping ground, and were redeveloped as part of the preparations for the Games. “They opened up the beach to the rest of the city, redesigned   areas to make them safer, and built athletic facilities that are still used by the citizens today,” Mr. Pack said. One site that still gets plenty of use is the Estadi Olímpic Lluís Company, whose impressive stone facades remain from the stadium’s original early 20th century design by the architect Pere Domènech i Roura. Originally built for the 1929 International Exposition and remodeled for the 1992 Games, it was recently host to a performance by Beyoncé, the latest of many concerts and sporting events. Barcelona’s profile soared after the Games. It was the seventh   city in Europe in 2014, according to Euromonitor Research. The Zetra Sports Hall, where the figure skater Scott Hamilton captured the gold for the United States, was repurposed as a morgue during the Bosnian War of the early 1990s. In the 20 years since then, Sarajevo has come a long way but its residents haven’t forgotten the war. “The people I spoke to there all had profoundly sad stories and memories of the war, often following them up with dark humor,” Mr. Pack said of visiting Sarajevo. “They then often spoke of the Olympics with a sense of pride. ” In some cities like Turin, where he visited in June, he said, “there is almost no evidence that the Olympics was ever there. ” The Dinaric Alps, which held many of the events from the 1984 Winter Games, form a dramatic backdrop to a city with an abundance of ethnic and architectural diversity. The Olympic Stadium, also known as Kosevo Stadium, was renovated after the war and remains active. A notable nearby landmark is the Sarajevo War Theater, created months after the siege began in 1992. Despite the danger, the theater was well attended throughout the war and continues to feature plays, music, poetry and exhibitions. Other facilities are in use as well, but not in ways often associated with former host cities. “Many of these sites probably look like they did right after the war ended,” Mr. Pack said. “But when I was there, locals were using these venues. There were people picnicking near the bobsled tracks, and biking and skateboarding down the actual concrete segments of track. ” This city has long been known for its excellence in design, so it’s no surprise that many of its   structures stand out for their appearance. The Olympic Village was designed by the Finnish architects Martti Valikangas and Hilding Ekelund, and its style can still be appreciated today. “The Olympic Village in Kapyla are now private condos, while the neighborhood next door,   is a great, early example of the garden city movement in Finland: small, colorful wooden houses and surrounding gardens, designed by Valikangas,” Mr. Pack said. Ekelund also designed the Helsinki Velodrome, which hosted cycling and field hockey events during the Games and was renovated in the late 1990s. It still holds athletic events today and remains a notable architectural site.  The Olympic Stadium and Tower, recently recognized by Architectural Digest in its list of best Olympic architecture, is undergoing a major renovation and is set to reopen in 2019. It’s home to the Sports Museum of Finland as well as many sporting events and concerts. “For Winter, Lillehammer and Vancouver have been success stories, but probably none more so than Salt Lake City,” said Bill Mallon, a founder of the International Society of Olympic Historians. “They have really put the venues to good use. ” Utah residents always knew they had great snow, but exposure from the Games turned the area into an international skiing destination. Utah resorts drew a record 4. 5 million visitors in 2015, compared with about 3 million in 2002, the year the Games were held. The area can now claim to have the largest ski resort in the United States, Park City, which is about 30 miles east of the city’s center. It resulted from Vail Resorts merging its Park City Mountain Resort with the nearby Canyons resort in 2015. Elsewhere, three of the Games’s top venues, the Utah Olympic Park, the Olympic Ice Oval, and the Soldier Hollow   skiing and biathlon venue, remain in use, serving as training grounds for Olympic hopefuls and providing recreational fun for the public. Getting to skate on the same ice as Olympians is an easy sell for locals and tourists, and braver visitors can ride a bobsled (no matter the season). Other summer activities at the park include extreme tubing,   and adventure courses. The smallest city (technically a village) to host an Olympics actually did it twice, first in 1932 and more famously in 1980, when a scrappy American men’s hockey team upset the heavily favored Soviets. “Winter sports and Lake Placid go together like wildlife and forests,” Robert Flacke, New York State’s commissioner of Environmental Conservation at the time, told The New York Times in January 1981. Whiteface Mountain, one of the highest peaks in the Adirondacks, hosted all of Lake Placid’s Alpine skiing events and is an obvious destination for skiers in the winter and outdoor enthusiasts in the summer. The Olympic Center features the Lake Placid Olympic Museum and is where the “Miracle on Ice” occurred. That same rink is open for public use, as is the original skating oval from the 1932 Winter Games. For stunning views of the Adirondacks, options include driving the Whiteface Veteran’s Memorial Highway to the top of Whiteface Mountain or taking an elevator to the top of the Olympic Jumping Complex.