If the Williams sisters are to face off in Arthur Ashe Stadium once again, it will be in the semifinals. In their long and storied careers, Serena and Venus Williams have played each other at the United States Open in the fourth round, the quarterfinals (twice) and the final (twice) but never in the tournament’s penultimate round.   Serena Williams, a   United States Open champion who is hoping to pass Steffi Graf’s Open era record of 22 Grand Slam singles titles, was dealt a challenging path in Friday’s draw for the United States Open, which is set to begin Monday. She faces the 2014 semifinalist Ekaterina Makarova in the first round, then may meet the former No. 1 Ana Ivanovic in the third round, and the current No. 5 Simona Halep in the quarterfinals. Venus Williams, who at No. 6 has her highest ranking in more than five years, landed in the quarter of the draw with No. 4 Agnieszka Radwanska. Williams, 36, reached the semifinals at Wimbledon last month and won a silver medal in mixed doubles at the Rio Olympics. The surprise singles gold medalist Mónica Puig of Puerto Rico gained a   seeding, at No. 32, when Sloane Stephens withdrew Friday morning. In the third round, she could meet No. 3 Garbiñe Muguruza, whom she thrashed,     at the Olympics. No. 8 Madison Keys and No. 28 CoCo Vandeweghe are also in Muguruza’s quarter, and they could face each other in the third round. Roberta Vinci, last year’s surprise finalist, is in the bottom quarter with No. 2 Angelique Kerber, who could overtake Serena Williams for the No. 1 ranking if Williams fails to reach the semifinals. Petra Kvitova, a   Wimbledon champion, could face Kerber in the fourth round. Novak Djokovic, the men’s top seed and defending champion, has a difficult draw of his own, along with a left wrist injury he has been struggling with since the Olympics. He will open against Jerzy Janowicz, a 2013 Wimbledon semifinalist with a booming serve. Djokovic could face another big server, No. 20 John Isner, in the fourth round, and has a possible quarterfinal matchup against   Marin Cilic, the recent Cincinnati champion and 2014 United States Open winner. No. 4 Rafael Nadal and No. 5 Milos Raonic loom as possible semifinal opponents. Two of the most promising American teenagers were placed in Djokovic’s quarter, pitted against more established countrymen. Taylor Fritz, 18, will face No. 26 Jack Sock, whom he lost to in five tumultuous sets in the first round of the Australian Open. Frances Tiafoe, 18, opens against Isner. No. 14 Nick Kyrgios could face another young Australian, No. 17 Bernard Tomic, in the third round, and possibly Stan Wawrinka, whom Kyrgios had a   with at a tournament last year, in the fourth round. Wawrinka, who has supplanted the injured Roger Federer at No. 3, has his own early hurdle in the first round against Fernando Verdasco, who upset Nadal in the first round of this year’s Australian Open. The standout in Wawrinka’s quarter, however, is Juan Martín del Potro, who needed a wild card to enter the main draw despite his resurgent form and a silver medal in Rio. Del Potro could face the   American man, Steve Johnson, in the second round. Andy Murray, the Wimbledon champion and Olympic gold medalist, has No. 6 Kei Nishikori as the highest seed in his quarter. While the bracket is set for the 254 main draw matches, there have already been 224 qualifying matches. The most improbable qualifier is   Christian Harrison, 22, a   American junior who has missed years with myriad injuries and surgeries. He defeated Steven Diez of Canada,       to reach his first Grand Slam main draw. He joins his older brother, Ryan, who also reached the main draw through qualifying. As Christian walked off the court, he was handed a cellphone. Ryan, who was in the midst of playing a World TeamTennis final in Forest Hills, was on the line. “Love you, dude,” Christian said. CiCi Bellis, who was a fan favorite at the 2014 United States Open when she advanced to the second round as a    made the main draw of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time since, with a     (5)   victory over Alison Van Uytvanck on Friday.