Four weeks after a woman was strangled while on an evening jog through a stretch of wetlands near her home in Queens, the police released a sketch on Wednesday of a man who had been seen in the area and might be a witness with information about the killing. Police officials said the man was not considered a suspect, or even a person of interest, in the Aug. 2 killing of the jogger, Karina Vetrano, 30. Investigators said they were hoping to question him in the hopes that he could help them find the killer. “We want to speak with this person because we feel he was there,” Robert K. Boyce, the New York Police Department’s chief of detectives, told reporters. “I’d never want to tell you he’s wanted for this crime, because he’s not. We have no evidence to say that. ” The police said the man had been spotted by a utility worker on a path running by the Belt Parkway, which is on the northern end of Spring Creek Park. Ms. Vetrano was found face down in the park, about 15 feet from a trail, by her father and police investigators, hours after she had left her home in the Howard Beach neighborhood to run. The man is believed to be between 35 and 45 and about 5 feet 10 inches tall. He was seen with a beard and wearing a red shirt, dark pants and a wool cap. Investigators have been in possession of the sketch for just over a week, Chief Boyce said, but officials decided to release it after investigators scoured the video evidence collected from the area and found no trace of the man. He said it was unclear if the man depicted had gone from the walkway into East New York, Brooklyn, or Queens. Based on video evidence, investigators do not believe the actual assailant fled the scene into Howard Beach. Instead they think he either went north into Queens or crossed over into Brooklyn. In the weeks since Ms. Vetrano’s killing, investigators have received more than 80 tips all but about nine of them have been vetted, Chief Boyce said. Investigators had also collected DNA evidence from Ms. Vetrano’s phone, which had been discarded in the park, as well as from her neck and under her fingernails all of it had come from the same person, he said. But the DNA evidence did not match with that of offenders whose profiles were in police databases. “We don’t believe this has anything to do with Karina’s background at all,” Chief Boyce said in a separate news conference held on Tuesday. “We still maintain it’s a random attack. There’s nothing to suggest than anyone in her past would do this to her. ” The authorities have put up a $35, 000 reward for information leading to Ms. Vetrano’s killer, and a separate, private effort online has raised more than $267, 000.