WASHINGTON  —   American intelligence agencies believe that the Russian government was behind the theft of emails and documents from the Democratic National Committee, but many questions remain about how the documents made their way to WikiLeaks, which released them. Before the WikiLeaks release, a large sampling was published by several news organizations and a hacker called Guccifer 2. 0, who investigators now believe was an agent of the G. R. U. Russia’s military intelligence service. American intelligence agencies say the earlier leaks from Guccifer and the WikiLeaks material have the same bits of code and telltale metadata traced to previous intrusions attributed to the G. R. U. or the F. S. B. another Russian spy agency. However, Julian Assange, the editor of WikiLeaks, makes a distinction between the Democratic National Committee material he released and the earlier releases by Guccifer and others, saying there is no proof that the Russians gave him the documents. In recent weeks, Mr. Assange has threatened to take his revelations to a new level. In August, some of the National Security Agency’s source code for breaking into foreign computer systems  —   the holy grail of the N. S. A. ’s Tailored Access Operations unit  —   was revealed on a website, with the announcement of an auction for the remainder of it. Mr. Assange then declared he would soon publish the rest on WikiLeaks free. So far he has not. Most experts say the code  —   the digital equivalent of codes for the release of weapons  —   could have come only from one of two sources: another N. S. A. insider like Edward J. Snowden or, more likely, an external computer server that the N. S. A. ’s   artists used in the course of an operation. If they had left their digital tool kit on that server, and the Russians or another power was already inside that network, the code would have been stolen. The N. S. A. has not said whether the code released was real or where it came from. This week, suspicions of Russian tampering took a new turn with reports that earlier this summer, the F. B. I. warned election officials in Arizona about Russian hackers targeting   systems there. The Senate minority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, asked the F. B. I. to investigate, writing to the director, James B. Comey, that the threat of Russian interference “is more extensive than is widely known and may include the intent to falsify official election results. ” The administration has stopped short of publicly accusing the Russian government of engineering the theft of the Democratic National Committee emails, presumably to buy time for President Obama to make a decision. James R. Clapper Jr. the director of national intelligence, said last month that American spy agencies were not yet prepared to publicly identify a culprit.