There is a simple math problem at the heart of the college football season: five power conferences, four playoff spots. That is, at least one of the major football conferences, having played a full season and produced an impressive champion, will fail to land a team in the   College Football Playoff for the national championship. Two years ago, the snubbed conference was the Big 12, whose   Baylor and Texas Christian, ended up fifth and sixth in the selection committee’s final rankings. Last year, it was the   whose champion, Stanford, though an obviously impressive squad with a Heisman Trophy   in running back Christian McCaffrey, had committed the cardinal sin of losing two games when every other conference champion had lost one at most. Trying in September to predict who will play for the national championship in January is a fool’s errand. There are so many teams. There is so much roster turnover. The oldest players are barely  . And the argument is never really settled, nor can it be. “This is all fun to talk about  —   it kind of makes college football really go, that there is opinion involved, and that’s what differentiates it from the N. F. L. ,” the CBS college football analyst Gary Danielson said. “But this also leads to frustration. ” He added, “The difficult part of this is even a committee that has the task of deciding the final four goes about it in unusual ways. ” But that’s just it: During the past two seasons, we have come to know the committee  —   its idiosyncratic preferences, its quirky biases. At this early date, we may not be able to forecast which team will win it all. But we can hazard informed guesses about the following question: Which of the five major conferences will fail to place a member in the final four team bracket? For now, it is in the teams’ hands. But on the last several Tuesdays of the season, the selection committee will rank its top 25, based on a host of factors, including strength of schedule and advanced metrics. It will issue its final rankings on Sunday, Dec. 4, after the conference championship games. This year, the national semifinals will take place on Dec. 31 at the Peach Bowl in Atlanta and the Fiesta Bowl in Glendale, Ariz. The winners will meet Jan. 9 at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Fla. Eight teams have made the playoff during its first two years (Alabama has done so twice) and all entered as conference champions. This is one of the committee’s stated metrics, and while the Big 12’s lack of a conference championship game kept its members out in 2014, last season’s Big 12 champion, Oklahoma ( ) sneaked in ahead of Stanford ( ) of the  . As with the Bowl Championship Series algorithm that preceded the playoff, the committee values winning percentage, perhaps over strength of schedule: Witness its placing last year of not only Oklahoma but Iowa ( ) which lost its conference championship game after a relatively soft schedule, over Stanford, which thrashed Southern California after a more difficult   slate. One more pattern: Both of the snubbed conferences in previous years, the Big 12 and   were, at the time, the only two to play   conference schedules. And each year, conference rivals took turns handing others defeats the committee member Condoleezza Rice memorably called it “fratricide. ” Conference depth  —   producing multiple tough matchups against familiar foes, sometimes at distinctly unfriendly stadiums, and fewer doormats  —   is the ultimate playoff obstacle. So which conference provides the clearest path to an undefeated or   conference champion? The one with an   schedule and the least depth: the Atlantic Coast Conference. Despite the presence of feisty No. 19 Louisville, it is a decent bet that either   Florida State or   Clemson  —   which is coming off a national title game appearance and is led by the Heisman Trophy contender Deshaun Watson at quarterback  —   will cruise to   (or perhaps  ). It is even more likely that the winner of the annual game between the two (Oct. 29, in Tallahassee, Fla.) will eventually claim the conference title and earn a playoff spot. The Big Ten’s top playoff contenders are all in the East Division  —   No. 6 Ohio State, No. 7 Michigan and No. 12 Michigan State  —   creating a potential   of defeats. The Buckeyes are among college football’s youngest teams, while the Wolverines face a punishing road schedule (at No. 17 Iowa, at Michigan State, at Ohio State). That could allow the Spartans, winners of two of the past three conference titles, to emerge in the best shape. “Whenever I do an interview, it’s always about Ohio State and Michigan,” the ESPN analyst Kirk Herbstreit said. “It’s almost like Michigan State’s not playing. ” The Big 12 appears   with No. 3 Oklahoma and No. 13 T. C. U. The Southeastern Conference is unlikely to be snubbed, though that would certainly produce amusing talk radio. The conference most likely to be left out, then, is again the  . Not because its teams are not good enough. Mostly because too many of them are. “I don’t see one or two teams that just stand out,” Herbstreit said. “I think it’s going to be one of those years where you have a   team coming out of there. ” Consider: No. 8 Stanford has to travel to No. 14 Washington, which has to travel to No. 24 Oregon, which has to travel to No. 20 U. S. C. And the winner of that North Division must still beat the winner of the South in the conference championship game. Danielson summed up the paradox, saying, “I would say the   is the   conference, but has the toughest road to the final four. ” “Which,” he added, “is a problem. ” There are other potential problems. Two conferences could be snubbed if one league lands two teams in the playoff or if Notre Dame, an independent ranked 10th, qualifies or if a Group of 5 conference champion elbows its way in. The last situation might be most likely: If No. 15 Houston beats Oklahoma on Saturday, then beats Louisville later in the season and goes unbeaten through its American Athletic Conference slate, there may be a race to see whether the Cougars get an invitation to the playoff or to the Big 12 first. Finally, with resurgent Tennessee ranked ninth, running back Leonard Fournette probably entering his final season with No. 5 Louisiana State, and Alabama ranked No. 1, fratricide in the SEC remains a possibility, too. But if the SEC finds itself without a team in the playoff, it would do well to stage its own, with its best four teams. The competition would be about as good.