Summer’s almost over. Here’s a cultural diet for the last lazy hours. Ask a comedian: Happiness isn’t funny, romantic happiness least of all. “Take My Wife,” which debuted in August on the relatively new Seeso comedy streaming service, breaks that rule delightfully. Rhea Butcher and Cameron Esposito, comedians and   spouses, play versions of themselves at an early stage in their careers. Ms. Esposito is the established comic, building her profile one podcast and hosting gig at a time. Ms. Butcher is the neophyte, telecommuting as a graphic designer by day, working on her act by night. It’s not supposed to work  —   two ambitious women sharing a life while trying to get ahead in a competitive field (one that’s even tougher for lesbians). And the series is sharp, without preachiness, on the casual sexism of the comedy business. But mainly, “Take My Wife” is in the mold of recent comedies  —   like “Difficult People,” “You’re the Worst” and “Catastrophe”  —   that present two main characters as   allies against the world. The stars share an upbeat appeal, and the vibe is cheerfully  . At a   episodes, it’s a fizzy, summer   you could easily down over a Labor Day weekend. JAMES PONIEWOZIK The rising tide of   television doesn’t lift all boats. Participant Media recently announced it would shut down its    cable channel, Pivot, one of the multitude of outlets scrambling to build a reputation for original programming. Pivot made quirky, interesting choices: the unsettling Arctic murder mystery “Fortitude” the Australian   comedy “Please Like Me” and “Human Resources,” an “Office”  documentary series about an actual New Jersey recycling company. This summer, Pivot showed, to very little notice, “Capital,” a BBC   set on a fictional South London street where the price of the unexceptional houses was shooting past £2 million (about $2. 7 million). It has an element of mystery  —   someone is sending the residents postcards with the ominous message “We Want What You Have”  —   but it’s primarily a slyly comic    drama, exploring what home means for the lifelong inhabitant and the newly arrived immigrant. The sentimentality never gets overpowering, thanks to a cast that includes Toby Jones as an overextended banker and Shabana Azmi as an overbearing Pakistani matriarch. Running a brisk three hours without commercials, the show is available for streaming at Amazon, iTunes and Vudu. MIKE HALE This summer, when not working, I mostly read cookbooks (all hail J. Kenji  ) and the backs of cereal boxes. I did consume two   books, or rather they consumed me. These are the books I’ve been   to my friends for the past month. The first is “Anne Sexton: A   in Letters” (1977) which follows this doomed poet’s career from young motherhood to literary success to mental illness in letters that are harried,   and profound. In one letter alone, to the poet W. D. Snodgrass in 1959, she refers to the local mental institution as her “summer hotel” and comments, after the death of her last surviving parent, “Some misty god has shoved me up the ladder and I am my own inheritor. ” This book is packed with poignant observation. About literary awards, she says: “Prizes are for parents so they’ll know. ” This is gripping reading, and among the best book of a poet’s letters that I’m aware of. The second is Charles Wright’s first novel, “The Messenger,” published in 1963. It didn’t sell well, but was received in many corners for what it is: among the decade’s most pulverizing novels about race and class and loneliness. “The Messenger” is about a young   black intellectual, a   veteran of the Korean War, who comes to live on West 49th Street in New York. To survive, he delivers packages he’s also a hustler who sleeps with anyone (mostly gay men) who can afford him. This novel reads like a Gil   album coaxed to life. Its narrator is too often forced to put on his “  smile. ” Slighted by a snob while he is reading a Lawrence Durrell novel, he thinks: “Doesn’t he think poor people read?” I devoured this quicksilver book in one gulp. “The pace, the variety, the anonymity, the sense of walking on glittering glass eggs, walking in a city like a   prostitute with her legs cocked open,” Mr. Wright’s narrator declares. “A challenging, wondrous city, fit for a   country boy. But do I really belong here?” Mr. Wright’s novels deserve republication and new readers. DWIGHT GARNER As the end of summer approaches, my instincts are     toward the future,   on the past. The nostalgist in me wants nothing more than to   the wonder of Simone Biles tearing down the runway on   feet, and if you too miss her mad, splendid aeronautics, I can think of nothing finer to recommend than Megan Abbott’s “You Will Know Me. ” The book combines gymnastics with murder, and each element is handled beautifully. If you’ve never read the lithe, unnerving work of Ms. Abbott, here’s your chance. Let the games begin. The   part of me is focused on the presidential election, which at least has united the country in one respect: No matter who we’re voting for, we’re doing so in a state of utter moral panic. For a sensitive, decidedly   explanation of this year’s politics of disruption, I’d suggest “Hillbilly Elegy” by J. D. Vance, whose memoir of a turbulent childhood in Middletown, Ohio, doubles as a work of sociology illuminating the despair of the white underclass. It’s invaluable reading this election year. One final note: All summer long, Emelyn Rude’s “Tastes Like Chicken: A History of America’s Favorite Bird” has sat alluringly on my desk. Though I haven’t yet had a chance to settle into it, a quick scan suggests it’s a lively one. Ms. Rude had me at the opening paragraph, when a serious scholar from her student days casually told her: “A chicken is an incredible piece of technology. ” And a delicious one at that. Did you know this country consumes more than 8. 6 billion chickens in the course of a year? Bonus feature: The book contains   recipes throughout the ages, including one for chicken soup circa 1390. A salve for the soul, even then. JENNIFER SENIOR This summer, one name loomed over internet culture. Harambe, the gorilla gunned down on Memorial Day weekend after a boy fell into his enclosure at the Cincinnati Zoo, has lived on as a meme riffing off the absurdity of online outrage, a fringe presidential campaign issue and even a grotesque racist symbol of the  . He has also disrupted a core genre of viral animal content: inspirational interspecies friendship videos. Harambe’s fatal encounter, caught on tape, has raised the specter of animal cruelty over images of   alliances that were previously widely consumed as inoffensive delights. (Commenters want to know: Is this dancing Brazilian dog actually suffering from a debilitating disease that’s being exploited by its owner for clicks?) But if you’re looking to restore your faith in interspecies encounters, a handful of videos that offer content too touching to politicize have gone viral this summer. Among them: Four baby pandas conspire to thwart their zookeeper as she rakes leaves in their enclosure. A clip of monkey nurses assisting humans features a zany series of comedic pratfalls and charming   gestures. And a group of human firefighters line up to salute the last surviving Sept. 11 search dog as he hobbles down the sidewalk on the way to the vet’s office, where he’ll soon be put to sleep. The genre has also been revived by videos that take humans out of the equation entirely. There are no fingers to point in the case of a mysterious duck that waddled unexpectedly into the life of a depressed, elderly dog. Perhaps sweeter still is the emerging   of    revenge. In “Cow Gets Pissed Off at Kid,” a journalist stages an interview near the prize cows of a local fair when some little punk enters the shot and starts beating on a couple of cows. The cows fight back, and the video concludes with the child flailing for help and getting pulled to safety. He emerges chastened, but unharmed.