LONDON  —   Anjem Choudary, one of Britain’s best known Islamist activists, was sentenced on Tuesday to five years and six months in prison after having been convicted in July of encouraging support for the Islamic State. Mr. Choudary, 49, had been found guilty of promoting the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, in speeches and messages posted online, which is a crime under Britain’s antiterrorism laws. Mohammed Mizanur Rahman, 33, an associate of Mr. Choudary’s, received the same sentence. Along with Mr. Choudary, Mr. Rahman was convicted on July 28 of having violated British laws after a   trial at the Old Bailey, London’s central criminal court. The verdict was not announced until   for legal reasons. Mr. Choudary’s supporters shouted the Arabic phrase “Allahu akbar,” or “God is great,” as he was sent to jail in London. Long regarded as one of the country’s most prominent radical preachers, Mr. Choudary had praised those who attacked the United States on Sept. 11, 2001, and he refused to condemn the London subway and bus bombings of 2005. Mr. Choudary was arrested two years ago after his name appeared on an oath that circulated online declaring the legitimacy of the “proclaimed Islamic Caliphate State. ” Mr. Choudary denied encouraging his followers to support the Islamic State and said his name had appeared on the online oath without his knowledge. But evidence was presented during the trial that Mr. Choudary had posted speeches online that provided his rationale for recognizing Abu Bakr   as the leader of the Islamic State. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the police said that, in the course of their investigation, they had considered material spanning two decades and had assessed evidence from more than 333 electronic devices. “These men have stayed just within the law for many years, and there has been frustration for both law enforcement agencies and communities as they spread hate,” said Cmdr. Dean Haydon, who leads the Metropolitan Police Service’s Counter Terrorism Command, in the statement. “We have watched Choudary developing a media career as spokesman for the extremists, saying the most distasteful of comments, but without crossing the criminal threshold. ” “Their recent speeches and the oath of allegiance,” he added, “were a turning point for the police  —   at last, we had the evidence that they had stepped over the line and we could prove they were actively encouraging support of ISIS. ”