CHARLOTTE, N. C.  —   After a recent preseason game here, the walking wounded roamed the Pittsburgh Steelers’ locker room. They had not been injured on the field, but were among the many players bruised by the disciplinary practices of the N. F. L. and Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the most powerful sports league in America. In one corner sat linebacker James Harrison, whom Goodell had threatened to suspend indefinitely if he did not speak to investigators about allegations that he had used steroids. No stranger to controversy, Harrison called Goodell a “crook. ” Running back Le’Veon Bell, who walked past Harrison’s locker, will sit out the first three games of the regular season because he failed to report for a drug test, his second   suspension in two seasons. Nearby was quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, who received a   suspension after he was accused of sexual assault in 2010. (The penalty was ultimately reduced to four games.) Then there was guard Ramon Foster. He may incur Goodell’s ire in a different way, as the team’s union representative and one of several players across the league who are now preparing their brethren for a yearslong fight to rein in Goodell’s power. Goodell’s application of disciplinary policy, and his unwillingness to appoint an independent arbitrator to hear appeals, has corroded the fragile trust between him and the players, who see him as judge and jury, Foster and other union representatives said. To push their point, they have already told players to start setting aside money in case the players ultimately end up on a picket line without a paycheck. “When you’re dealing with a guy like Roger Goodell, he can do whatever he wants because no one is in charge of him, especially with discipline,” Foster said. “For us to actually battle this out, we need to save money. We have a chance to fight for this. ” Foster’s call to action is unusual because the N. F. L. ’s current labor deal does not expire until 2021. But players said they were so alarmed by a string of suspensions they considered unreasonable, and the legal victories the league had won to uphold those decisions, that they needed to muster for action now. Their focus is the N. F. L. ’s personal conduct policy, which Goodell has used to penalize players for transgressions as varied as aggressive hits on quarterbacks, bullying teammates, domestic abuse and scheming to deflate footballs. Goodell, with an approach far more aggressive than that of his predecessor, Paul Tagliabue, has gotten as much attention in his first decade as commissioner for these punishments as for turning the league, which oversees America’s most popular sport, into a $13 billion behemoth. Few players would dispute that someone who commits domestic violence should be penalized. But Goodell’s suspension of players for more ambiguous infractions like deflating footballs or taunting teammates has led many fans, and some players, to complain that he is meddlesome and affecting the quality of play by sidelining some of the game’s top stars. Players also want a neutral arbitrator, not Goodell, to hear their appeals. “We don’t want it to just be that you say this is what it is and we don’t get a chance to negotiate anything,” said Mark Herzlich, a linebacker for the Giants and a member of the union’s executive committee. “What we want is fairness. ” The season begins in Denver on Thursday night, with a rematch of last season’s Super Bowl between the Broncos and the Carolina Panthers. But on Sunday, when most games will be played, Tom Brady, the New England Patriots quarterback and one of the league’s best players, will be conspicuously absent. He will sit out the first four games of the season after a federal appeals court this summer upheld the league’s right to suspend him over his role in an alleged plot to deflate balls used in the A. F. C. championship game in 2015. Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson will take the field, though a federal court this summer agreed that the N. F. L. had been within its rights to suspend Peterson after he was arrested following an episode in which he disciplined his young son with a stick. Under an agreement with the league, Peterson paid a fine equal to three games’ salary. Goodell has his defenders, including team owners, but even they express dismay that his disciplinary decisions have become a lightning rod and sometimes distracted from the game. “I think it’s largely due to the   age and the fact that he had some   cases and admittedly made some mistakes,” John Mara, an owner of the Giants, said of the attention Goodell receives. “And he’s become an easy target because of the money he makes. It’s almost gotten to the point where no matter what he does, he faces an avalanche of a criticism. ” Still, Mara and many other owners said that they supported Goodell’s approach and, contrary to what some of the commissioner’s critics have said, insisted that he had not acted impulsively, but rather in the best interests of the league. “Once he makes up his mind, he certainly has a strong opinion on things,” said Art Rooney II, an owner of the Steelers. “But I don’t think he’s someone who isn’t seeking input. ” Goodell and his deputies are unapologetic. “The whole reason you have a commissioner in any sport, the most fundamental reason for that office, is to protect the integrity of the game,” said Jeff Pash, the N. F. L. ’s top lawyer. The job of the commissioner, he added, is to make sure that fans “are rooting and supporting financially and emotionally for a game that is clean, that is honest, cares about fans and cares about the people who play the game. ”   tension has long been a feature of the N. F. L. though. In the 1970s and 1980s, players walked off the job several times to win concessions like free agency. By the 1990s, Tagliabue and the union chief at the time, Gene Upshaw, found common ground more often than not. In 2006, the players won what was widely perceived as the upper hand when the two sides renewed their collective bargaining agreement. Five years later, with the economy teetering, the owners clawed back those gains and then some, but only after a protracted fight with DeMaurice Smith, Upshaw’s replacement. “My observation was when DeMaurice took over, it became combative,” said Amy Trask, who was the chief executive of the Oakland Raiders until 2013. “With the union, everything was an argument. We could go into a meeting and say, Wow, my pencil broke, can someone give a pencil? and there would be an argument about No. 2 pencils. ” After the owners locked them out for more than four months, the players agreed to accept just 47 percent of the league’s revenue, down from 50 percent. Amid the fight over money, the players focused less on the personal conduct policy, which has now become such a point of contention. Only the Steelers players  —   who had watched Goodell suspend Roethlisberger and fine Harrison for making illegal hits  —   voted against the deal. In a league that practically prints money, threatening to walk off the job would seem  . Most careers in the N. F. L. are brutally short  —   the average length is less than four years  —   so players might be excused for opting to collect paychecks over trying to clip a commissioner’s wings. The larger question, then, is whether the current fixation on Goodell’s power will continue and how far the players are willing to go to try to check his authority. Pash said that the league was willing to negotiate with the union to amend the personal conduct policy, but that the union would have to understand the owners’ position and stop trying to overturn the commissioner’s rulings by going to court. For their part, many players have said they recognize that they, like employees at any company, must be accountable for their actions on and off the job. They insist that they have only gone to court because the commissioner overstepped his authority in applying the personal conduct policy. They also reject the notion that they must give the owners something  —   like agreeing to play an   season  —   in return for overhauling the policy. “They’ve created this Dumpster fire they have to put it out,” said Eric Winston, an offensive lineman with the Cincinnati Bengals and the president of the N. F. L. Players Association. “They can’t come to the union and say, ‘We’ve abused this policy for 30 years you need to give us something so that we can change it. ’”