Gary Johnson, the former New Mexico governor and Libertarian Party presidential nominee, revealed a surprising lack of foreign policy knowledge on Thursday that could rock his insurgent candidacy when he could not answer a basic question about the crisis in Aleppo, Syria. “What is Aleppo?” Mr. Johnson said when asked on MSNBC how, as president, he would address the refugee crisis in the   Syrian city. When pressed as to whether he was serious, Mr. Johnson indicated that he really was not aware of the city, which has been widely covered during the years that Syria has been engulfed in civil war. After Mike Barnicle, an MSNBC commentator who is often part of the “Morning Joe” program panel, explained that Aleppo was the center of Syria’s refugee crisis, Mr. Johnson struggled to recover. “O. K. got it,” he said, explaining that he thinks that the United States must partner with Russia to diplomatically improve the situation there. “With regard to Syria, I do think that it’s a mess. ” The stumble could be a serious blow to Mr. Johnson’s campaign, just as he is making a final push to improve his standing in the polls. His support needs to reach 15 percent in a series of major national polls to be included in the presidential debates. Mr. Johnson’s support has been hovering around 10 percent. He and his running mate, former Gov. Bill Weld of Massachusetts, have been aggressively making the case that they represent a viable alternative for voters who are not happy with the major party nominees, Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump. Mr. Johnson and Mr. Weld are both former   Republican governors who are socially liberal and fiscally conservative. While Libertarians are very   oriented, they are often criticized for being isolationist and lacking interest in foreign policy. Some leading Republicans who oppose Mr. Trump have said openly that they are giving the Libertarian ticket a serious look. On Wednesday night, Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee, publicly called for Mr. Johnson and Mr. Weld to be included in the presidential debates. The stumble could derail such hopes and it was widely mocked on social media. On Twitter the question “What is Aleppo?” was trending, with many critics arguing that Mr. Johnson had disqualified himself from the presidency. Some even attributed the flub to Mr. Johnson’s acknowledged use of marijuana. He is a proponent of legalizing the drug and he was previously the chief executive of a business that marketed and sold recreational marijuana products. Even Hillary Clinton, Mr. Johnson’s Democratic opponent, had a laugh at his expense on Thursday. Asked about the Libertarian candidate’s lack of knowledge about Aleppo during a news conference, she joked, “You can look on the map and find Aleppo. ” Thursday was not the first time that Mr. Johnson has faced such a situation. After speaking at a Politico convention in June, he was being directed to a room that was named after Harriet Tubman, the former slave and abolitionist. According to a report in The New Yorker, Mr. Johnson asked, “Who’s Harriet Tubman?” Mr. Johnson expressed disappointment about the Aleppo lapse in a brief   interview that was broadcast on MSNBC and canceled some of his other scheduled interviews that had been planned for later in the day. “I’m incredibly frustrated with myself,” Mr. Johnson said. “I have to get smarter and that’s just part of the process. ” He also released a statement, explaining that he is “human” and that as president he would surround himself with experts and receive daily security briefings to fill any gaps in his knowledge. As for the impact the matter would have on his presidential prospects, Mr. Johnson said that would be up to the voters to decide. In a separate interview on ABC’s “The View” program, Mr. Johnson said that he was just trying to be as forthright about the situation as possible and made no excuses. “For those who believe this is a disqualifier, so be it,” he said.