Good morning. Welcome to California Today, a morning update on the stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Tell us about the issues that matter to you  —   and what you’d like to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. Want to receive California Today by email? Sign up. San Diego may have some of the best fish tacos and   beach days, but that’s apparently not enough to keep a lot of its tech talent from fleeing for the San Francisco Bay Area. In a recent column in Voice of San Diego, Alexander Bakst, a computer science student at U. C. San Diego, said that while he and his peers would love to work in the city, “I’m positive that they all will leave. ” The reason? It’s not so much the gap in pay relative to Bay Area employers, though that is a factor, as it is the location of many of San Diego’s tech companies, Mr. Bakst wrote. Most of San Diego’s tech jobs are in parts of the city  —   such as North County or Sorrento Valley  —   that they consider too far from downtown, San Diego’s cultural epicenter and millennial stamping ground. Some fresh graduates say they have little interest in living or working in the industrial park atmosphere of Sorrento Valley, where less costly rents have exerted a strong pull on tech companies ever since Qualcomm set up shop there in 1985. Starbucks, a Chili’s and a couple of Indian food spots are there. But not much else. “It’s really just a series of streets with office buildings from one end to another,” said Russ Petrone, a real estate agent. He offered, “I wouldn’t say it’s ugly. ” Rajesh K. Gupta, a professor of computer engineering at U. C. San Diego, said tech graduates with competing offers in the Bay Area or Seattle aren’t likely to go with Sorrento Valley. “It’s just not exciting enough,” he said. In his column, Mr. Bakst wrote that if San Diego wanted to stem the exodus of its young tech class, it needed to nurture jobs in a part of the city where they want to live and work: downtown. But industry professionals and city officials said that is an effort already underway. Jeff Winkler, founder of San   Origin Code Academy, which trains software engineers, said more than 100 young   had taken up residence in downtown offices in recent years. “They’re here,” he said. “And there’s a lot of cool stuff going on. There just aren’t as many household names. ” Mr. Winkler suggested that another factor was at work in the job deliberations of San Diego’s  . Fresh out of college, he said, many of them are simply hungry to check out a more happening town. “Truthfully, people are always going to want to go to San Francisco,” he said. • Census data show that California has the nation’s highest rate of poverty. [LA Weekly] • The city of Hesperia is waging an aggressive campaign to shut down halfway homes. [Los Angeles Times] • The University of California system is starting the school year with its most diverse class of new students in history. [Los Angeles Times] • Gov. Jerry Brown approved $900 million in funding aimed at cleaning up California’s dirty air. [The Associated Press] • Calling health care a human right, California is pushing to insure undocumented immigrants. [The New York Times] • He made six figures at his Facebook dream job  —   but he couldn’t afford life in the Bay Area. [Vox] • Disney cut about 250 jobs, the latest in a series of   moves. [The New York Times] • A show focused on race with an unprintable name was canceled at Cal State Long Beach, leading to a resignation. [The New York Times] • Native Americans have traveled from California to support pipeline protesters in North Dakota. [San Diego  ] As Californians ponder whether to legalize marijuana this November, the race is on to create the first roadside pot test. This month, two groups announced advances on   devices that could be used by law enforcement to detect THC, the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana, in a driver’s system. Hound Labs, an Oakland   said that its breathalyzer prototype had been   by law enforcement officials, while Stanford researchers said they had created a “potalyzer” that can measure the amount of THC molecules in saliva. Hounds Labs, which has been collaborating with scientists at U. C. Berkeley, said its device had an important advantage over   tests. Tests of blood, urine or saliva can turn up THC days after a person has smoked marijuana. But the chemical only lingers for a few hours in the breath, the company said. That means its Breathalyzer can signal recent consumption. As a wave of pot decriminalization has swept the country, law enforcement agencies have become increasingly eager to get ahold of a portable device that could help catch stoned drivers. Opponents of California’s Proposition 64, which would allow recreational marijuana, have argued that the move would send more drugged drivers onto the roads. Scientists say it is clear that THC causes deficits in cognitive function, but the amount required to affect driving performance is not well understood. That has not stopped some states, including Washington, Montana and Pennsylvania, from setting legal cutoffs. The California initiative, however, offers no guidance on the matter. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.