The   polls are beginning to trickle in, and it already seems clear that Hillary Clinton has received a bump after the first presidential debate. A wave of   battleground state surveys released on Friday showed her with a comfortable advantage in New Hampshire, Nevada, Florida and Michigan. The gains suggest she might lead by as much as five percentage points nationwide, up from about two to three points before last Monday’s debate. It’s hard to know whether the shift will last. If you’ve been following The Upshot’s coverage of polling over the last two years, you know that we’re pretty circumspect about shifts in the polls. But no matter how you cut it, the debate is bad news for Donald J. Trump. As we wrote ahead of the debate, it has been hard to make sense of the polls over the last few months. Mrs. Clinton’s lead has bobbed up and down, between two and eight percentage points since the spring. To oversimplify, there are two basic ways to interpret it. One possibility is that every little twist and turn in polls represents a real shift in a volatile race. If that’s the case, perhaps we’ll look back and say that the debate was decisive: The race was very close before, and Mrs. Clinton took a clear lead after. The other interpretation is that the race is stable but that the polls are volatile, as changes in news media coverage affect the likelihood that people respond to surveys or are judged to be likely voters. If this idea is right, it’s harder to evaluate Mrs. Clinton’s debate bounce. From this point of view, big media events  —   like debates and the conventions  —   raise equally large questions about volatility in the polls. After all, the polls really can change for good after a debate or a convention. But other times, the overwhelming news coverage surrounding a debate performance or a political convention is exactly the sort of thing that would cause an illusory shift. Mitt Romney took a narrow lead after the first presidential debate in 2012, but there is considerable evidence that his gains were exaggerated. For that period, the Democrats became less likely than Republicans to respond to surveys  —   what pollsters call differential nonresponse. After the first presidential debate in 2000, George W. Bush surged in the polls  —   going from an   deficit among likely voters to an   lead in the Gallup tracker. But half of the swing was because of changes in who was assessed to be a “likely voter. ” A postelection study found that those swings in   intention had no predictive value it was just noise. So there’s good reason to be cautious about Mrs. Clinton’s rise in the polls. But that doesn’t mean it should be dismissed out of hand. After the first presidential debate in 2004, John Kerry truly did rally to make it a close race. Usually, a good way to test the durability of a swing in the polls is to ask whether it brings the race closer or farther from the   fundamentals, like the president’s approval ratings. A shift that brings the polls in line with the fundamentals might be a little likelier to last than one that cuts the other way. Mr. Kerry’s recovery, for instance, brought the tighter race implied by Mr. Bush’s approval ratings. Barack Obama’s gains in 2008 gave him the considerable advantage implied by the economy and Mr. Bush’s low approval ratings. The opposite could be said of Mr. Bush’s and Mr. Romney’s surges in 2000 and 2012. This year, it’s a lot harder to tell. That’s in part because there is no incumbent president on the ballot, which always makes it a little harder to tell where the natural resting point of a race sits. But it’s also because Mr. Trump is such an extraordinary candidate that many analysts believe the fundamentals will be less significant than usual. In lieu of the traditional fundamentals, here’s something to consider instead: Over the longer term, Mrs. Clinton has led Mr. Trump by around five percentage points nationally. The debate has bumped her poll standing back closer to her   average, and it seems plausible it could stay in that range. The debate has also reinforced doubts about whether Mr. Trump is prepared for the presidency. No matter how you interpret polls, Mrs. Clinton is in a decent position with less than 40 days to go.