After four weeks of playing catch in his back yard, Tom Brady can finally rejoin the New England Patriots, who suddenly look like they could really use him. Here’s what we learned in N. F. L. Week 4: ■ There is no quarterback controversy in New England, but there might be room for discussion in Dallas, where Dak Prescott continues to impress in Tony Romo’s absence. And in San Francisco, where Blaine Gabbert’s awkward impression of Colin Kaepernick is getting increasingly odd with Kaepernick available on the sidelines. It still doesn’t matter who plays quarterback for the Broncos, because their defense can win with anyone. ■ It might be time to panic for two of the N. F. C. ’s most   teams. The Panthers and Cardinals both dropped to   with Cam Newton and Carson Palmer being forced out of their respective games because of concussions. ■ Jets coach Todd Bowles has a better sense of humor than people give him credit for. Bowles claimed his confidence in Ryan Fitzpatrick is “no different than when the season started,” despite Fitzpatrick having thrown nine interceptions over his last two games, both of which the Jets lost. The only reasonable takeaway is that Bowles never had any confidence in Fitzpatrick to lose. ■ Julio Jones is very good at football. If the Falcons get 300 receiving yards from him every week they should be just fine. ■ There truly is no typical Browns loss. This week’s collapse came by way of a fumble that was called in the Redskins’ favor even as Cleveland’s fullback, Duke Johnson, stood next to the pile of players holding the football. Next week they may not need a collapse provided Tom Brady’s wife, Gisele Bundchen, kept her word and helped him stay in football shape. You learn more about a young quarterback when they are forced to face some real adversity for the first time, and with the way Dak Prescott handled his team getting off to an ugly start against the 49ers, it appears the Dallas Cowboys are in good hands. And they may be in for a little quarterback controversy as well. The rookie quarterback, filling in for the injured Tony Romo, calmly worked his team back into the game. With a little help from the Cowboys’ defense, and rookie running back Ezekiel Elliott, Prescott secured a   win and a   start to the season. In a   start to the game, the San Francisco offense, which had previously been struggling, looked incredible, converting its first seven   attempts. Carlos Hyde was finding space to run and Blaine Gabbert was carving up the Dallas secondary. But midway through the second quarter, with the Cowboys on the ropes following a sack that forced what would be a    from their own    the 49ers’ Jaquiski Tartt got a little too excited and added an extra hit to the play which resulted in an unnecessary roughness call and extended Dallas’s drive. Three plays later, Prescott found Terrance Williams on the edge of the end zone for a   touchdown that closed the gap to  . From that point forward, Gabbert turned back into a pumpkin, looking   to run an offense that seems better suited for Colin Kaepernick, and the Cowboys took control of the game. San Francisco’s good start on offense was a distant memory as the offense converted just one of its final seven   opportunities. After the quick comeback in the first half, Prescott, who also had a   touchdown pass to Brice Butler in the second quarter, seemed more than happy to let Elliott and Dallas’ overpowering offensive line drive the bus down the stretch. In New England’s final game without Tom Brady at quarterback, reality finally intruded on the Patriots’ dream start to the season. Jacoby Brissett played like a rookie, and every break seemed to go against New England, and they fell to the Buffalo Bills,   on Sunday. Coach Rex Ryan of the Bills was at his bombastic best during the week, and his defense delivered on his bluster, handing the Patriots the team’s first shutout at home since 1993 and erasing memories of Buffalo’s ugly   start to the season. Asked after the game how important getting Brady back next week will be for the Patriots, Rob Gronkowski paused for several seconds with a broad smile. “I don’t even have to answer that,” Gronkowski said. “Obviously it’s exciting to get Tom back. ” Here’s how things went wrong for the Patriots. Carolina allowed Atlanta quarterback Matt Ryan to torch their defense to the tune of 503 yards in the air  —   300 of it going to Julio Jones  —   but that wasn’t the biggest concern for the Panthers, as they finished the game without Cam Newton, the heart and soul of the team, who was taken out for evaluation in the N. F. L. ’s concussion protocol. The final score was   in favor of the Falcons, but until the Panthers know the extent of Newton’s injury, things could still get far worse. Newton, who had been having a subpar effort by his standards with 165 yards passing and 30 yards rushing, was running the ball into the end zone on a   conversion in the fourth quarter when he took a late hit from Deion Jones. The hit appeared to be legal, but that did not stop Newton’s teammates from objecting loudly to it as Newton was clearly scoring on the play. Read more here. Steelers Destroy Chiefs: Six offensive snaps. Three Ben Roethlisberger touchdowns passes. Two to Antonio Brown. One very important reminder of just how good Pittsburgh’s offense can look when all of its dynamic parts are moving in sync. Seven days after a   meltdown in Philadelphia, the Steelers overwhelmed the Chiefs   behind five touchdowns passes from Roethlisberger and 178 yards of total offense from running back Le’Veon Bell. Here’s how the Steelers won. Another Meltdown for Chargers: With the Chargers trying to protect a   lead against the Saints, Melvin Gordon fumbled and Darryl Tapp recovered at the San Diego 13, setting up a Drew Brees touchdown pass to Michael Thomas on    to pull to   with 4:50 to go. Travis Benjamin then fumbled after a reception and Nate Stupar recovered at the San Diego 31. Seven plays later, fullback John Kuhn scored his third TD of the game and the Saints walked away with a   victory. Read more here. Carson Palmer Hurt in Cardinals’ Loss: Tavon Austin returned a punt 47 yards to set up Case Keenum’s   touchdown pass to Brian Quick with 2:41 to play, and the Los Angeles Rams improved to   for the first time in a decade with a   victory over the Arizona Cardinals on Sunday. Arizona’s Carson Palmer threw for 288 yards and a touchdown but left the game to be evaluated for a concussion after his head slammed to the turf on a sack by Aaron Donald with 5:40 to play. The play forced a Cardinals punt and Austin raced past   tacklers to the Arizona 34. A facemask penalty against Ifeanyi Momah moved the ball to the 19 and the Rams ( ) went ahead when Quick caught a pass under tight defense for the score. Broncos Win, but Lose Siemian: Paxton Lynch made his N. F. L. debut sooner than expected Sunday, stepping in for the injured Trevor Siemian to help the Denver Broncos remain unbeaten. Lynch, drafted in the first round to be a big part of Denver’s future, added a nice first chapter to his career by finishing a   victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Here’s how the Broncos won. Browns Find Another Way to Lose: The Cleveland Browns, a team that seems determined to lose in new and exciting ways each week, had a   late in the third quarter and appeared to be in control against the Washington Redskins. It was not to be as the Browns ended the game with a   stretch in which they lost two fumbles, had an interception, turned the ball over on downs and then simply ran out of game clock. Along the way, the Redskins got a touchdown pass from Kirk Cousins and a touchdown run from Matt Jones, which was enough to lead to a   victory, dropping the Browns to  . Next week they are the first stop on Tom Brady’s 2016 revenge tour. Seahawks Top Jets: A week after the worst game of his career and one of the worst quarterbacking performances in recent N. F. L. history, Jets quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick managed not to throw six interceptions, or even five, or four. But he did throw three, all in the fourth quarter, including one that dashed the Jets’ hopes for a comeback in a   loss to the Seahawks. Read Ben Shpigel’s game report here. Jaguars Happy in London: The Jacksonville Jaguars started the season   in the United States, but after holding off a valiant comeback attempt by Andrew Luck and the Indianapolis Colts, they are   at their     London on Sunday. A game filled with penalties, big hits, and 28 combined points in the fourth quarter, ended with the Jaguars on top,  . Raiders Roll: Derek Carr threw four touchdown passes, the last to Michael Crabtree with 2:12 left, and the Oakland Raiders ( ) beat the previously undefeated Baltimore Ravens   on Sunday. After the Ravens rallied from a   deficit in the fourth quarter to go ahead with 3   minutes remaining, Carr directed a   drive that ended with a   strike to Crabtree in the back of the end zone. Read more here.  Bears Get a W: to Brian Hoyer threw for 302 yards and two touchdowns, and the Chicago Bears earned their first win of the season with a   victory over the Detroit Lions on Sunday. Here’s how the Bears won their first game. Texans Win Without Watt: Will Fuller had a tiebreaking   punt return for a touchdown and the Houston Texans earned a   win over the Tennessee Titans on Sunday in their first game without J. J. Watt. Read more here. The players filed past a table and picked up the electronic wristbands as casually as any of other piece of equipment designed to make the Seattle Seahawks perform at their peak. But rather than protect or help them power through a game, this new one, distributed to the players at practice on Monday, is aimed at a more subtle effect. Very subtle. “Get your nine hours of sleep!” receiver Doug Baldwin shouted to Trevone Boykin, the backup quarterback, as Boykin fiddled with his band, a   monitor designed to ensure he does just that. Read about how the Seahawks want to become sleeping giants.