Three militia members plotted to detonate a bomb at a housing complex in western Kansas where Somali immigrants lived and worshiped, federal investigators said Friday. The men, who were arrested Friday morning on domestic terrorism charges, scouted out the apartments in Garden City, Kan. stockpiled guns and composed a manifesto about their   motives, prosecutors said. “Their rhetoric and their speech have revealed a hatred for Muslims, Somalis and immigrants,” an F. B. I. agent wrote in affidavit related to the case. The plotters planned to carry out their attack on Nov. 9, the day after the presidential election, the authorities said. The three men are Curtis Allen and Gavin Wright, both 49 and from Liberal, Kan. about 65 miles from Garden City, and Patrick Stein, 47, of Wright, Kan. According to the F. B. I. agent’s affidavit, the men referred to Muslims as “cockroaches” and met frequently to discuss the plot. Officials said that the apartment complex they targeted housed about 120 people, including many Somalis who work at a nearby meatpacking plant, and that one of the units was used as a mosque. Eric Jackson, the special agent in charge of the F. B. I’s Kansas City office, said that agents infiltrated the militia months ago, and that the men planned to wait until the presidential campaign was over before carrying out the plot. He did not specify which candidate the militia members were supporting. Prosecutors said Mr. Stein became worried this week that the plan could be foiled after Mr. Allen was arrested on domestic violence charges. “These individuals had desire, the means and the capability, and were committed to carrying out this act of domestic terrorism,” Mr. Jackson said. The Council on   Relations called Friday for state and federal law enforcement agencies to increase protection of mosques across the country. The council’s Kansas board chairman, Moussa Elbayoumy, said Garden City counted several hundred Muslims among its roughly 27, 000 residents. Mr. Elbayoumy said there was one mosque in the city, which served a mixture of   American Muslims and recent immigrants. “I am personally not aware of any tensions between the Muslim community and the surrounding community,” said Mr. Elbayoumy, who lives in another part of Kansas. “Most of them are getting along very well, and there have been contacts with interfaith groups. ” Investigators said the plotters were part of a group called the Crusaders that had militia and   sovereign citizen ties. The authorities learned of the attack from a paid informant, the affidavit said. In the affidavit, the F. B. I. agent wrote, “They chose the target location based on their hatred of these groups, their perception that the people represent a threat to American society, a desire to inspire other militia groups, and a desire to ‘wake people up.’ ” Mayor Chris Law of Garden City said in a statement that he was “shocked, but at the same time extremely proud of and grateful for the efforts of local, state, and federal law enforcement. ” The Garden City police chief, Michael Utz, said his department had been aware of the investigation and was assured that all suspects were in custody. Mr. Jackson, the F. B. I. official, said he was confident the plot was fully foiled. It would have had a significant impact not only on the state of Kansas, this community, but also this nation,” Mr. Jackson said. “This would have been picked up not only nationally, but internationally. ”