■ President Trump, at a political gathering of congressional Republicans, asks, “Where’s my C. I. A. director?” ■ A new Quinnipiac University poll put President Trump’s approval rating at 36 percent, compared to Barack Obama’s 59 percent in the opening weeks of his presidency. ■ The professional golfer Bernhard Langer released a statement saying he never told President Trump a story of voter fraud that Mr. Trump relayed to congressional leaders. President Trump may be unaware that America’s spy chiefs are not supposed to be creatures of partisan politics. Speaking on Thursday in Philadelphia at an annual retreat for Republican lawmakers, Mr. Trump seemed to think Mike Pompeo, the new director of the Central Intelligence Agency, would be among the senators, representatives and party operatives hooting and hollering in the crowd. “Where is Pompeo? Where the hell is he?” Mr. Trump said, scanning the crowd. The answer, in case Mr. Trump has not yet figured it out: Mr. Pompeo was not in Philadelphia. The C. I. A. like the military, is supposed to be apolitical, and its chief does not have a direct role in creating administration policies. Though Mr. Pompeo has attended the Republican retreat in years past  —   he was a Republican representative before taking over the C. I. A. on Monday  —   it would be considered highly inappropriate for him to take part in his new role running the country’s premier intelligence agency. It was not the first time that Mr. Trump appeared to mix partisan politics and C. I. A business. He accused the C. I. A. ’s previous leadership of playing politics after American intelligence agencies said they believed that Russia tried to help him win the election. Then, on Saturday, he gave a speech at C. I. A. headquarters that was filled with campaign trail rhetoric. The speech was widely criticized by former C. I. A. officials from both Republican and Democratic administrations. But Mr. Trump, in an interview on Wednesday with ABC News, cast the visit to C. I. A. as a highlight of his first days in office. “That speech was a home run,” he said. “I got a standing ovation. In fact, they said it was the biggest standing ovation since Peyton Manning had won the Super Bowl, and they said it was equal. I got a standing ovation. It lasted for a long period of time. ” President Trump, now famously touchy about his approval ratings, is not doing well on that front. A new Quinnipiac University poll put his approval rating among American voters at 36 percent, 33 percent among women. In Quinnipiac’s first poll of Barack Obama’s presidency, Mr. Trump’s predecessor stood at 59 percent. Republican lawmakers who might be considering distancing themselves from their president should consider this: Mr. Trump’s   rating among Republicans is 81 percent to 3 percent. Independent voters are the problem. They are more split, with 45 percent disapproving and 35 percent approving of the job that the president is doing. Gathered with the top leaders of Congress, President Trump on Monday apparently relayed the story in all seriousness: the pro golfer Bernhard Langer had told him a story that really stuck with him. As Mr. Trump relayed it, Mr. Langer had been in line to vote in Florida when he was told by an official that he could not cast a ballot. But people all around him who looked far more suspect  —   Mr. Trump tossed out the names of Latin American countries that the voters might have come from  —   were allowed to draw up provisional ballots. There was a problem with the story: Mr. Langer is a German citizen. But Mr. Langer says he never talked to Mr. Trump, that he was told the story by a friend, then told the story to a friend who told it to someone with ties to the White House  —   who apparently told it to Mr. Trump. He certainly never tried to vote in Florida. So, if the story was important to Mr. Trump’s erroneous belief that millions of illegal immigrants gave Hillary Clinton her 2. 8   win in the popular vote, it was based on   information. There’s a slight problem with President Trump’s Great Wall with Mexico: the Tohono O’odham Nation. The Native American tribe controls about 75 miles of the border of the United States and Mexico that slices through its sovereign territory. Tribal leaders are already saying that the wall is not going to divide its territory. Verlon M. Jose, the Tohono O’odham Nation’s vice chairman, was not subtle when discussing the wall when he spoke in November to Native News Online: “Over my dead body. ” Tribal officials did say they are willing to meet with President Trump to discuss the matter further. As Mr. Jose said: There may be a Gingrich in the Vatican just yet. Callista Gingrich, the wife of Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and a friend of Mr. Trump’s, is in the running to be ambassador to the Holy See, according to a person briefed on the discussions. Mr. Gingrich, reached by telephone, said that he was aware that his wife had been on a list for the job, but declined to say where things stood. The former speaker took himself out of the running for a cabinet post after it became clear that Mr. Trump was looking elsewhere for a secretary of state. Mr. Trump has known Newt and Callista Gingrich socially for years. They’re members of his golf club in Virginia, and have been at his club,    in Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Gingrich was one of the people Mr. Trump consulted in 2015 when he had already determined he would run for president. But Mrs. Gingrich is the former speaker’s third wife  —   not something the church takes a shine to. Others who are being considered for the role include William Simon Jr. a friend of Rudolph W. Giuliani. Four senior management officials at the State Department resigned on Wednesday, leaving the department without the top managers charged with running the administrative, consular and foreign mission operations until their successors are in place. “As is standard with every transition, the outgoing administration, in coordination with the incoming one, requested all politically appointed officers submit letters of resignation,” Mark Toner, the department’s acting spokesman, said in a statement, adding: “Of the officers whose resignations were accepted, some will continue in the foreign service in other positions, and others will retire by choice or because they have exceeded the time limits of their grade in service. ” The most senior official to leave is Patrick F. Kennedy, the department’s longtime undersecretary for management, who oversees finances, security, facilities and consular services. But his departure had been expected, in part because of his vigorous defense of   of State Hillary’s Clinton’s handling of the attack on the diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya. He also sought the F. B. I. ’s help in downgrading the security classification of an email from Mrs. Clinton’s private server. Rex Tillerson, nominated to be secretary of state, is not expected to be confirmed by the Senate until next week. Nominations for the department’s deputy positions have yet to be announced or submitted. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said Thursday morning that in spite of President Trump’s perpetual tweet storms, distracting television interviews, occasional lies, and intraparty slights, they are with him on policy. “We are on the same page with the White House,” Mr. Ryan told reporters in Philadelphia, before a visit from Mr. Trump to the congressional Republican’s policy conference. On the list: a costly wall along the border with Mexico, which Mr. Ryan said would be paid for with a supplemental funding request from the White House and existing federal funding to secure the border. Also on the list is a new tax code and a replacement for the Affordable Care Act  —   easy! (Remember, Congress dithered for weeks and months to scrape together aid for the victims of tropical storm Sandy, to combat the Zika virus and to help the   residents of Flint, Mich. while conservatives looked for offsetting spending cuts.) As for Trump’s distractions, the leaders seemed to say that’s his special sideshow. “This is going to be an unconventional presidency,” Mr. Ryan conceded, adding, “that is something we are all going to have to get used to. ” Mr. McConnell also shrugged off questions about Mr. Trump compromising the United States’ relationship with Mexico. “We intend to address the wall issue ourselves, and the president can deal with his relations with other countries on that issue and other issues,” Mr. McConnell said. The Republican chairmen of the House and Senate veterans’ affairs committees dashed off a letter to President Trump Thursday demanding to know whether his executive order freezing federal hiring applied to the Department of Veterans Affairs. Surely you didn’t mean the department under our jurisdiction, suggested Senator Johnny Isakson of Georgia and Representative Phil Roe of Tennessee: Don’t be surprised if more such letters emerge as the hiring freeze starts to bite. In a week in which President Trump is busy unraveling much of Barack Obama’s legacy, the former president was defended from an unusual quarter Thursday morning: Mr. Trump. In an   post on Twitter, Mr. Trump expressed outrage that Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst whose sentence for leaking American secrets was commuted by Mr. Obama, had criticized the 44th president for not being strong enough. Even though Mr. Trump repeatedly characterized Mr. Obama the same way during last year’s campaign  —   “weak attitude and pathetic president,” “so weak and so bad,” “he’s been weak, he’s been ineffective”  —   he evidently thought Ms. Manning was ungracious to do so. Mr. Trump seemed to be referring to a column that Ms. Manning wrote in The Guardian newspaper, in which she argued that Mr. Obama left “very few permanent accomplishments” because he was too willing to compromise. The column was largely a criticism of Republicans never giving Mr. Obama a chance, but it suggested that he had not been strong enough to resist them. “The one simple lesson to draw from President Obama’s legacy: Do not start off with a compromise,” Ms. Manning wrote. “They won’t meet you in the middle. Instead, what we need is an unapologetic progressive leader. ” Wonder where Mr. Trump got his idea?