Janet Napolitano, president of the University of California, knows exactly what’s at stake if President Trump shuts down an Obama administration program that has given work permits and protection from deportation to some 752, 000 young undocumented immigrants. In 2012, in her previous job as secretary of Homeland Security, she signed the document  —   nothing more than a policy memo  —   that created the program. So when alarm spread among immigrants on college campuses following Mr. Trump’s election, Ms. Napolitano moved quickly to determine what the California system could do to shelter its students if he carried through on his pledges to cancel the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. The university estimates that almost 3, 800 among its 190, 000 students are undocumented, many but not all with DACA. Ms. Napolitano, retaining her law enforcement instincts, does not mention the word “sanctuary” when describing what the university could offer. “Sanctuary is such a vague term, we don’t use it,” she said crisply. Instead, the university has published detailed principles of support for undocumented students, including assurances that campus police would not question students solely about their immigration status or join any cooperation agreements with federal immigration authorities under the Trump administration. Through the Davis campus law school, the university is organizing legal help for students detained for deportation. Another worrisome prospect, Ms. Napolitano said, is that students could lose the permits that allow them to work. Undocumented students, including any losing DACA, will continue to pay   tuition and be eligible for state financial aid and for a revolving loan program funded, in part, by the university. “We want to do everything we can so students are safe on our campuses,” Ms. Napolitano said, “so they can focus on what they are there to do, which is to study. ” Students at dozens of college campuses, galvanized by Mr. Trump’s depictions of immigrants as criminals or potential terrorists, have pressed administrators to provide sanctuary for those without legal papers. But universities have had differing ideas about what that would mean in practice, and most leaders have been careful to say they would not defy the law. Some institutions have flatly rejected sanctuary plans as encouraging lawbreaking. At New Mexico State University, the president, Garrey Carruthers, said that banning federal agents from campus might imperil its federal funding. One of the first presidents to declare a sanctuary campus explicitly was Michael S. Roth of Wesleyan, who announced in November that it “will not voluntarily assist” any efforts by federal authorities to deport students (a policy he reaffirmed on Jan. 29). Soon after, John Coatsworth, the provost of Columbia University, said that it would not allow immigration agents on campus without a warrant. Some administrators point out that student information, including their immigration status, is already protected under   privacy laws requiring the authorities to show a warrant or court order before any data can be released without students’ consent. In Georgia, Emory, which is a private university, considered but ultimately decided against protective measures. “Emory is not seeking to establish itself as a sanctuary campus, for which there is no legal definition,” the university said in a Jan. 4 statement. Taking a tougher line, the University System of Georgia said that any call for sanctuary was “unacceptable” and added, “We expect our institutions to follow the law. ” In his first formal briefing, on Jan. 23, Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, suggested that canceling DACA would not be a priority for the new administration, but he did not provide any explicit reassurance that the program would continue. Ms. Napolitano is still contemplating the bitter possibility that Mr. Trump will sweep away her most significant immigration accomplishment. She hopes to persuade him that the program is a good use of executive power, emphasizing that DACA immigrants pose little security risk because they pass background checks to get into the program. Her message for Mr. Trump: “Why waste resources trying to deport good students who’ve done everything right?”