WASHINGTON  —   The United States military carried out airstrikes on Sunday in eastern Afghanistan aimed at two of Al Qaeda’s most senior leaders operating in the country, an attack described as one of the most significant in Afghanistan in several years, the Pentagon announced on Wednesday. An official statement said the Defense Department continued to assess whether the two men, Faruq   and Bilal   were killed in the airstrikes. Peter Cook, the Pentagon press secretary, said on Wednesday night that “their demise would represent a significant blow to the terrorist group’s presence in Afghanistan. ” He said the attacks came after an extensive period of surveillance over remote areas of Kunar Province. Mr. Qatani was described as Al Qaeda’s emir for northeastern Afghanistan, assigned by the terrorist group’s leadership to   havens for operations throughout the country. Mr. Cook called him a “senior planner for attacks against the United States,” with a long history of directing strikes against American and NATO forces. Mr. Utabi, similarly, was described as having worked to   a haven in Afghanistan from which to threaten the West, and was involved in efforts to recruit and train foreign fighters. A United States official said the airstrikes  —   carried out by unmanned warplanes  —   occurred simultaneously on Sunday against two separate compounds in remote areas of Kunar Province. The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to offer details of the mission, said the armed drones fired multiple Hellfire missiles on each compound, causing extensive damage to those structures. American officials had been searching for Mr. Qatani for four years, and the effort to locate and attack him required extensive work by multiple agencies, the Pentagon said. Mr. Qatani had several roles within Al Qaeda, Defense Department officials said. Besides planning attacks against American and coalition forces in Afghanistan, he also raised funds and oversaw weapons acquisition and distribution of arms to militants in the country. Mr. Qatani had connections to Osama bin Laden, and figures prominently in declassified files recovered during the raid on the Bin Laden compound in Pakistan in 2011, officials said. Those seized materials show that Mr. Qatani, also known as Nayf Salam Muhammad Ujaym   has been involved in the relocation of Qaeda operatives from northern Pakistan into Afghanistan over several years. United States military forces remain in Afghanistan to advise and assist Afghan troops and to carry out counterterrorism missions against Islamic State and Qaeda fighters, even after the end of the official combat mission in Afghanistan was declared in 2014. In August, the Pentagon announced that it had killed the leader of the Islamic State branch in Afghanistan and Pakistan with an airstrike on July 26 in eastern Afghanistan.