Good morning.  We’re trying something new for our readers in Asia and Australia: a morning briefing to   your day.  What do you like? What do you want to see here? Email us with your feedback at asiabriefing@nytimes. com. Here’s what you need to know: • Little more than a week before Election Day in the United States, the F. B. I. has become enmeshed as never before in a presidential race. Hillary Clinton and her team launched an attack on the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James B. Comey, after he disclosed that the agency was looking into a batch of messages that could be related to the inquiry into whether she and aides mishandled classified information. The Justice Department obtained a warrant for the messages, on the computer of the estranged husband of a top Clinton aide. Donald J. Trump continued to improve in polls, including in Florida, a state he must win for a chance at the presidency. • The shadowy presidential adviser at the center of the South Korea’s deepening political scandal returned from Europe to apologize for “wrongdoings” and pledge to appear before prosecutors. Concerns that she was allowed too much influence in the government prompted protests that pushed President Park   to purge eight aides over the weekend. • The Taliban have seized more territory in Afghanistan this year than at any time in their   struggle against the government. Over the last week, scores of Afghan soldiers and at least three army posts surrendered to the militants. The Taliban are increasingly using social media to advertise their victories. • Italy is recovering from one of its strongest earthquakes in decades. Search and rescue teams were converging on the stricken area, in the center of the country, where many buildings were damaged and thousands were homeless. No deaths were immediately reported. • About 300 million of the world’s children breathe highly toxic air, according to a United Nations report. More than   of them are in South Asia, where pollution is at least six times levels considered safe. • Thousands of fighters are joining   Shiite militias to further Iraq’s campaign to free the city of Mosul from the Islamic State. The Iraqi military said the total force is now over 40, 000. • After we posted a video about women in Saudi Arabia voting and running for office for the first time, nearly 6, 000 Saudi women poured out their hearts about living in a society where male relatives oversee all aspects of their lives. Some said subtle change was in progress, but many spoke of anger and fear. “I live a lie just so that I wouldn’t end up getting killed,” said one. • Canada and the European Union signed a trade agreement that counters the widespread   trend. Canada’s prime minister, Justin Trudeau, said the deal would show that “trade is good for the middle class and those working hard to join it. ” • Global trade is slipping. That’s partly because developed nations are moving toward curbing free trade, and partly because reduced consumption and investment are drags. • The five bidders for the assets of the Hanjin Shipping Company’s route between Asia and the United States have until Nov. 7 to submit final bids. • In Manila, a competition between tycoons has given new life to a   project to build a new airport for the capital. • Australian leaders are concerned about a mining magnate’s Chinese partners as the group becomes the only bidder for a swath of land bigger than Portugal. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • The king of Morocco ordered an investigation into the death of a fish vendor who was crushed by a compactor last week while trying to save more than $10, 000 worth of swordfish confiscated by the authorities. His death set off protests that reached the capital, Rabat. [The New York Times] • Australia’s government plans to permanently block all asylum seekers trying to reach the country by boat from ever gaining entry. [Sky News] • China sets off on its 33rd Antarctic expedition this week, sending more than 250 people on an icebreaker for months to hunt for a site for its fifth research station. [Global Times] • Dozens of people were reported killed in western Yemen after airstrikes by a   military coalition hit a security complex, which included a prison. [The New York Times] • Iceland’s   Pirate Party won second place in a general election, prompting the prime minister to resign. The party aims to pass the first   constitution. [The New York Times] • Diwali, the Indian festival of lights, is being commemorated for the first time at the United Nations in recognition of the holiday’s celebration in member nations around the globe. The Secretariat building in New York will be lit for the holiday through tonight. • By elevating President Xi Jinping to the title of “core leader,” Communist Party officials have shown that, willingly or not, they’ve bowed to his dominance. • Pen Sovann, the first prime minister of Cambodia after the brutal Khmer Rouge government, died in the country’s southern Takeo Province. He was 80. • The first   genetic study of Rattus norvegicus, otherwise known as the brown rat, shows that the rodent evolved slowly on the cold, open plains of northern China or Mongolia, and spread globally over the last few centuries  —   largely thanks to colonialists. When ghosts and witches, Elsas and Spidermen, take the streets tonight, candy might not be the only thing collected after saying ”  . ” Since 1950, orange boxes with a coin slot have gone    with Halloween traditions. The change goes to Unicef, the United Nations Children’s Fund. And it is all thanks to a Pennsylvania schoolteacher who decided to follow a children’s parade led by a cow in Philadelphia. The world was still recovering from World War II in the late 1940s when the Reverend Clyde Allison and his wife, Mary Emma Allison, had their three children    not for candy, but soap and clothing for relief efforts in Europe. But the idea to give back on Halloween needed more legs. It found them when Mrs. Allison followed the parade to a department store, where a Unicef booth was taking in donations. That first year, children carried   boxes that were soon replaced with the official orange ones. Over the years the    for Unicef has raised at least $175 million, with funds going toward improving health care, clean water and education. The “constructive approach to Halloween,” a 1955 Times article on Oct. 30 noted, encouraged American youngsters “to develop the sense of international citizenship responsibility that is essential in today’s shrinking world. ” Remy Tumin contributed reporting. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.