 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good morning. We’re providing unlimited access to all New York Times digital platforms through Wednesday.  Here’s what you need to know: • It’s Election Day! Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump made their closing arguments in states that both view as   to be victorious today. Now it’s up to the voters. Despite the ugliness of the campaign, there are signs that Americans are expressing themselves at the ballot box in large numbers. Turnout in states that allow early voting was high, and many voters told The Times that they were eager for the election to end. Here’s what time polls close across the country (and when we might know who won). The first big wave is at 8 p. m. Eastern. And last, our 360 video series takes a peek inside a voting booth. • What to watch for today and tonight. Hispanic turnout is set to vastly exceed the turnout from four years ago, and early voting data indicates that Mrs. Clinton will benefit from the increase. But it’s too soon to know if it will be decisive for her, our writer observes. He says the surge could be enough to overcome Mr. Trump’s strength among white,   voters in Florida and Nevada. “If it does, it will almost certainly win her the election. ” We’ll be tracking the results live after the polls close. Here are two basic paths for what might happen. • Other   story lines. We look at how the F. B. I. in the span of a week, reviewed thousands of emails and again concluded that Mrs. Clinton should not face charges related to her handling of classified information. And how might the election affect stocks? Swings over the course of the campaign suggest that the markets prefer one candidate to the other, our analysis shows. The news media is under intense pressure to avoid any mistakes in projections tonight. “If you don’t get a good grade, 300 million people are going to know,” one executive said. • International roundup. Heavy smog continues to choke New Delhi, where emergency measures are in place to improve air quality. The damage from sustained exposure to high pollution is equivalent to smoking more than two packs of cigarettes a day, experts say. Hong Kong is bracing for more street protests and tough questions about the independence of its courts after China barred two   politicians from taking their seats in the territory’s legislature. And Australia won’t be legalizing   marriage anytime soon. Parliament rejected a bill calling for a nonbinding public vote on the issue, despite polls showing around 70 percent of Australians want marriage equality. • North Dakota oil pipeline. Environmental groups protesting the Dakota Access pipeline near the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation are targeting a new group: banks that have helped finance the project. • Rolling Stone and one of its writers were ordered by a federal jury to pay $3 million in damages to a University of Virginia administrator over a discredited article about a supposed gang rape at the university. • China’s new cybersecurity law will give the authorities far greater control over the internet beginning next summer, raising concerns about freedom of speech and barriers to foreign business. • The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Guardian, Gannett publications and others have announced plans to reorganize, reduce staff, eliminate sections or all of the above. “It couldn’t be happening at a worse moment in American public life,” our media columnist writes, citing the threat of fake news proliferating on social media. • U. S. stocks surged on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Interview with a chess superstar. Sergey Karjakin of Russia became the world’s youngest chess grandmaster at age 12. Now 26, he is about to challenge the reigning world champion, who is 25, in New York. “I don’t play chess for fun, it’s my job,” Mr. Karjakin said. “And I happen to love my job very much. ” • New to read. Zadie Smith’s latest work, “Swing Time,” explores the effects of cultural heritage and politics on identity. Our critic described the book this way: “A novel that showcases its author’s formidable talents in only half its pages, while bogging down the rest of the time in formulaic and predictable storytelling. ” • Tick, tock. If you have a few moments, take our quiz on time. Do you know what the scientific definition of a second is? Hint: It isn’t the time it takes to say “one Mississippi. ” • Recipe of the day. If you’re looking for comfort food this election night, try this   lasagna. And since we’re on the subject of cheese, read about a New York City sandwich that has set off a discussion about the cultural appropriation of food. Britons have been saying a lot of goodbyes in the past few months. They voted to leave the European Union. The prime minister resigned. The leading figures of the   Brexit campaign left the government. And through all this, the news media outside Britain found one expression that worked in multiple languages: “English leave. ” It’s a play on “taking French leave,” which the British use to mean departing abruptly  —   supposedly a reference to the French manner of leaving a social function without saying goodbye. Such nationalist expressions abounded around the 19th century, when rival nations in a disunited Europe settled scores in wars, revolutions and slights. But the Germans also pick on the Poles for evaporating from parties, which the British call an “Irish goodbye. ” (The German weekly “Die Zeit” even graphed the zingers and  .) Of course, the slaps don’t end with departures. Germans can mention, though rarely, “English shopping”  —   that is, theft, as in the colonial past. And references to historic battles get drawn into the mix, too. So the French could say, depending on how Brexit works out, “c’est un vrai coup de Trafalgar,” a true Trafalgar blow, reminiscent of their decisive defeat by the English in 1805. Palko Karasz contributed reporting. _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Accessing this version of the briefing should help. Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning. What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes. com. You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.