WASHINGTON  —   When President Obama relied heavily on executive orders to push through policies that had no chance in Congress, Republicans called him a dictator who abused his power and disregarded the Constitution. They even took him to court. “We have an increasingly lawless presidency where he is actually doing the job of Congress, writing new policies and laws without going through Congress,” Representative Paul D. Ryan, then the Budget Committee chairman, said in a 2014 television interview after Mr. Obama made clear in his State of the Union address that he would readily take unilateral action to get his way. Now President Trump, at the start of his tenure, is relying heavily on executive actions not just to reverse Obama administration initiatives, but to enact new federal policies covering immigration, health care and other areas in ways that could be seen more as the province of the House and Senate. And he is doing that with clear Republican majorities in Congress. The flurry of administration edicts flowing from the Trump White House puts some top Republicans in the awkward position of welcoming aggressive executive muscle flexing from a president of their own party after castigating Mr. Obama for using the same approach. Their rationale: Mr. Obama took executive action too far, stretching the intent of legislation to fulfill an ideological agenda. “We’ve never been against executive action,” said Ashlee Strong, a spokeswoman for Mr. Ryan, now the House speaker. “We’re against overreaching, illegal action. ” Mr. Trump’s eager embrace of the executive order  —   he signaled clearly during his campaign that he intended to follow his predecessor’s lead  —   allows him to claim immediate progress on his campaign promises rather than waiting for a lengthy legislative process to play out. Many of his major proposals  —   building a border wall, hiring more border and immigration officers, creating a new office for victims of crimes committed by immigrants in the country illegally  —   will presumably require funding by Congress, and that is no certainty in the current political environment. The question then becomes how Mr. Trump would proceed if Congress balks. House Republicans are currently suing the executive branch  —   and winning  —   in a case that argues the Obama administration spent more than $13 billion on health insurance subsidies without necessary congressional approval in a clear breach of the Constitution. The health care executive order issued by Mr. Trump last week directed federal officials to find ways to minimize the financial burden of the health care law on governments, health care providers and others. Many saw the move as a backdoor attempt by the new White House to undermine the current law of the land while Republicans try to figure out a way to repeal it. It was the reverse of the type of action Republicans criticized President Obama for  —   using his executive powers to prop up the health care law without sufficient authority. But there were no loud complaints from Republicans this time, a fact not lost on Democrats. “Congressional Republicans’ hypocritical acquiescence to President Trump’s executive orders is an abdication of their responsibility to govern, especially in light of their vocal opposition to even the most restrained use of executive authority by President Obama,” said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader. But some Republicans are wary too. Even as they welcome the opportunities opened up by having an ally in the White House, some worry that the continued emphasis on executive actions is just another step in the dilution of legislative power. “We need to go back to being the legislative branch,” said Representative Ileana   a Florida Republican opposed to a potential executive order by Mr. Trump that would end a special program allowing younger illegal immigrants to remain in the United States. “We didn’t like this when Obama was doing it, so why should we accept it now?” Other Republicans were hoping the start of a new administration would allow a reset between the executive branch and a legislative branch that has seen its influence steadily erode as lawmakers surrender power and responsibility to the administrative side. Mr. Trump’s broad assertion of executive power could make any rebalancing difficult to achieve, though lawmakers say they intend to keep pushing. “The imperial presidency was not created overnight and it will not be undone overnight,” said Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, who is leading an effort called the Article I Project to try to recapture some lost authority for the House and Senate. Mr. Lee and Ms. Strong of the speaker’s office said a good first step in Congress’s reasserting itself would be enactment of a bill passed by the House this month requiring congressional approval of major new rules being pushed by federal agencies. If it could clear the Senate, Mr. Trump has said he would sign it in what would represent a major victory for congressional Republicans trying to rein in the regulatory power of the executive branch. Still, Mr. Trump’s early focus on pushing his agenda through executive actions underscores a fundamental truth of presidencies. New occupants of the White House tend not to surrender power accumulated by their predecessors. They tend to build on it.