   games and   victories were in style once again in N. F. L. Week 10. Here’s what we learned from an exciting Sunday: ■ The Dallas Cowboys are too young to lose the games they are supposed to lose. The team’s winning streak already included a win at Lambeau Field over Aaron Rodgers and the Green Bay Packers, and this week the team’s rookies led the way to beat Ben Roethlisberger and the Pittsburgh Steelers at Heinz Field. The game also proved that a potential scoring play for Ezekiel Elliott is any play in which the rookie running back touches the ball. ■ Tom Brady is a human being, which means the Patriots are beatable. The New England quarterback had been in   revenge mode since his suspension ended, but in a loss to Seattle he was held without a touchdown pass, threw the first interception by a New England quarterback this season, and botched things at the goal line at the end of the game, handing the win to Seattle. Next thing you know, he’ll start having feelings and perhaps, eventually, age. ■ New rules create new ways to win games. New Orleans was going for a   extra point in a wild game against Denver when Justin Simmons leaped over the offensive line, blocked the kick, and watched as his fellow rookie, Will Parks, ran the ball all the way back for a     conversion return. It was the first time that a team has won a game on the defensive scoring play that was created last season in a move to add some potential drama to extra points. The move worked. ■ The Chiefs should not be counted out. Kansas City may not have a powerhouse offense, but the team beat the Carolina Panthers despite having trailed   late in the second quarter. ■ David Johnson will get his 100 yards from scrimmage. The   running back of the Arizona Cardinals has gained 100 or more yards for scrimmage in all nine of his team’s games. He cut things close last week, with 24 rushing yards and 84 receiving yards in a loss to Carolina, and his margin was even thinner this week in a win over San Francisco, with 55 on the ground and 46 through the air. In a rematch of Super Bowl XLIX, the New England Patriots and the Seattle Seahawks proved they are still evenly matched, as the game featured seven lead changes. It came down to a   play once again, and this time it was Seattle that held strong, escaping with a   victory on the road. The game, which featured three receiving touchdowns by Doug Baldwin of the Seahawks, three rushing touchdowns by LeGarrette Blount of the Patriots, and the first interception thrown by a Patriots quarterback this season, had plenty of highlights on both sides. It even went as far as to feature a mild   of the famous   play from the Super Bowl in which Malcolm Butler intercepted a pass at the goal line to seal New England’s victory. Sunday’s version was a    and the Seahawks once again threw right at Butler. He was a step too slow, and Russell Wilson’s pass found Baldwin for the first of their three touchdown connections. But it was a     pass attempt from Tom Brady to Rob Gronkowski in the final seconds of the game that sailed out of the tight end’s reach and ended New England’s hopes of a    victory. Gronkowski was locked up with Seattle safety Kam Chancellor, but no flags were thrown. The Patriots, down 7 with under a minute left in regulation, appeared to be in great shape with a    from the   line, but they couldn’t punch it in on three straight run plays. In an   interview, Chancellor, who had played a key role in the   stand by covering Gronkowski on the final play and catching Blount from behind on second down, said his team’s   was key to hanging on for victory. “Mental toughness, physical toughness and never giving up,” Chancellor said. “That’s one thing we preach on our team, we want to fight until we can’t fight no more. ” Wilson, while not necessarily at his best, appeared to have regained some of the mobility that he has been missing for much of this season and used it to complete 25 of 37 passes for 348 yards and three touchdowns. He got plenty of help from C. J. Prosise, a rookie running back making his first N. F. L. start, who had 66 rushing yards while catching seven passes for 87 yards. On the other side of the ball, the Seahawks’   defense was able to make Brady look more human than he has at any point since returning from a   suspension. He failed to throw a touchdown pass for the first time this season, and the Patriots’ streak of 258 passes to start the season without an interception ended when Brady, hoping to avoid the   threw a ball right into the waiting hands of DeShawn Shead. Brady’s last regular season interception had come in the third quarter of a Week 16 loss to the Jets last season. In the ongoing quarterback controversy for the Dallas Cowboys, Ezekiel Elliott just saved Dak Prescott’s starting position for him. Things looked bad for Prescott when Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger did his best impersonation of Dan Marino late in the fourth quarter, faking a spike to stop the clock and throwing a   touchdown pass that looked like it would end Dallas’   winning streak. But Elliott was not done, and the rookie running back broke free for a   touchdown run with just nine seconds remaining to secure a   victory for the Cowboys. Read more about the Cowboys’ victory here. The 452nd passing touchdown of Drew Brees’s career appeared to secure an unlikely win for the New Orleans Saints over the Denver Broncos, but a blocked extra point turned into two points and a shocking   victory for the Broncos. It was a game of wild momentum changes, with the Broncos scoring the first 10 points, the Saints scoring the next 17, and then the teams trading points back and forth. But after Brees, who earlier in the game had become just the third player to have 450 passing career touchdowns, found Brandin Cooks for a   touchdown with 1:22 remaining it looked like New Orleans had taken care of business at home. It all changed on Wil Lutz’s   attempt. Justin Simmons, a rookie safety, was able to leap over the offensive line and block the kick. Another rookie safety, Will Parks, recovered the ball and streaked down the sideline on the unusual turnover, which is good for two points. While many will focus on whether Parks’s foot went out of bounds on the return, the Broncos won the game not just because of the return but also because they dominated time of possession. The Broncos controlled the ball for 39 minutes 22 seconds compared to the Saints having it for 20 minutes 38 seconds. Denver was also able to force four turnovers, including three by Darian Stewart, who intercepted consecutive passes by Brees in the first half and had a fumble recovery in the second half. A week after losing to the Oakland Raiders, and giving up a tie at the top of the A. F. C. West, the Broncos have now closed Oakland’s lead to a   as the Raiders are off this week. Philadelphia’s defense was able to bend but not break against the   Atlanta offense, and Ryan Mathews took care of the rest as the Eagles beat the Falcons,  . Carson Wentz completed nine of his first 10 passes for the Eagles, and 25 of 36 overall, but it was Mathews running for 108 yards and two touchdowns that ended up providing the offensive spark necessary in the game as the Falcons were limited to just one touchdown and three field goals. Matt Ryan ended up topping Wentz in terms of passing yards, with 267 to Wentz’s 231, but with his team trailing by nine with less than two minutes remaining, he was intercepted by Leodis McKelvin, sealing Atlanta’s fate. Elsewhere around the N. F. L. in Week 10: Chiefs Steal One From Panthers: The Kansas City Chiefs had no offensive touchdowns, and their defense was on the field for much of the afternoon. No big deal. They found another way to win  —   again. Marcus Peters stripped Kelvin Benjamin with 20 seconds left, Cairo Santos kicked a   field goal as time expired, and the Chiefs overcame a   deficit to top the Carolina Panthers,   on Sunday. The game was tied when Benjamin caught a   pass from Cam Newton at his own 34. Peters ripped the ball from his arms and returned it to the Carolina 24. “I took it from him. It was simple,” Peters said.  —   Associated Press Titans Dominate Packers: Marcus Mariota threw for 295 yards and four touchdowns and the Tennessee Titans routed the Green Bay Packers,  . Five Titans scored a touchdown in the first half as Tennessee put together its best scoring performance this season. With the win, the Titans ( ) also matched the five victories over the past two seasons combined. The Packers ( ) started a   road swing by losing their third straight. Green Bay has lost four of five in dropping below . 500 for the first time since 2008, Aaron Rodgers’s first year as a starter.  —   Associated Press Jets Lose With Petty at QB: Alec Ogletree saw the football zipping his way and knew he needed to get his hands on it. The Los Angeles linebacker intercepted Bryce Petty with just under two minutes left, lifting the Rams to a   victory over the New York Jets in a snoozer. Read our report here.   Dooms Chargers: Miami Dolphins linebacker Kiko Alonso couldn’t have played his first career   any better. It was the highlight play of his career so far, and left the San Diego Chargers stunned, again. Alonso deked Philip Rivers into thinking he was going to cover a slot receiver, then broke off, jumped in front of Tyrell Williams for the interception and outraced everyone 60 yards to the end zone with 1:01 left to give the Dolphins a wild   victory.  —   Associated Press Vikings Lose Fourth Straight: Kirk Cousins threw for two touchdowns, Preston Smith had two sacks and a   interception, and the Washington Redskins beat the Minnesota Vikings,   for their first victory in almost a month. Washington (  ) got all of its   points off the foot of Dustin Hopkins, who hit four field goals, including a  . The Redskins shut out Minnesota ( ) in the second half, and Smith sacked Sam Bradford in the final seconds to hand the Vikings their fourth consecutive loss.  —   Associated Press