Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1.   Donald Trump filled some top national security posts last week, naming loyalists who reflect his campaign’s   views. His choice for attorney general is Senator Jeff Sessions, above, who was blocked from becoming a federal judge in 1986 because of accusations of racially charged remarks. Michael Flynn, a retired lieutenant general who sees Islamic militancy as an existential threat, will be national security adviser. Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas was nominated to be the director of the C. I. A. Here’s our latest coverage of Mr. Trump’s transition to the White House. ____ 2. “Build something  . Something Americans can be proud of. ” That’s our   columnist, urging Mr. Trump to follow a lofty vision for his pledged upgrade of the country’s aging infrastructure. We even have a list of 10 projects, balanced between red and blue states, where he could leave his mark while helping unify a bitterly divided America. ____ 3. In the days after the election, our reporters and photographers fanned out across the country as a new political reality set in. They returned with a portrait of a country at odds with itself. We’re also beginning a podcast of  conversations among siblings,   classmates and friends who voted for different candidates. “I could never believe you’re a racist, man, that’s silly, that’s stupid,” said one young black man to a friend of Hispanic heritage who supported Mr. Trump. “Can’t believe you’re sexist. Cannot. But part of me is puzzled. ” Here are 19 questions to ask loved ones who voted differently. ____ 4. President Obama will return to the United States on Monday after the last major foreign trip of his presidency, with stops in Greece, Germany and Peru. On Tuesday, he’ll give the 2016 Presidential Medal of Freedom to 21 recipients, including Kareem   Ellen DeGeneres, Tom Hanks and Bill and Melinda Gates. And on Wednesday he’ll pardon a turkey for the last time as president. ____ 5. Seventeen new cardinals received their “red hats” at a ceremony Saturday, officially joining the Roman Catholic Church’s College of Cardinals. Who Pope Francis selects for the college is critical to his efforts to reshape the church, as the group will eventually elect Francis’ successor. Three Americans are among the new additions, the most Francis named from any one country. And while U. S. politics is never a determining factor in who is selected, all three men have been outspoken opponents of Republican Party positions. ____ 6. In Tunisia, where the Arab Spring began six years ago, the voices of torture victims and their loved ones are being heard. The   public hearings are an effort to salve the wounds from nearly 60 years of dictatorship. Mothers demanded justice for sons who were shot to death during the protests that ushered in democracy, and former prisoners described being tortured, humiliated and even forced to engage in homosexual acts. ____ 7. The skyline of New York City has changed drastically over the past decade. We’ve gathered a number of notable new buildings that you may recognize (like 1 World Trade Center) or may not (um, a salt shed? ). Think you know the city’s recent additions pretty well? Here’s a quiz to test your knowledge. It includes the hyperbolic paraboloid, or   pyramid, above. ____ 8. Scientists who drilled into what is considered ground zero of the dinosaur extinction found something that surprised them: granite. The drilling happened in the Gulf of Mexico, where some 66 million years ago an asteroid crashed into Earth with the energy of 100 million atomic bombs. It left behind a    scar known as the Chicxulub crater, shown in an artist’s rendering above. Their finding suggests that powerful impacts can catapult materials buried deep in a planet’s crust much closer to its surface. ____ 9. After  Thursday’s Thanksgiving turkey, people across America will head to big box stores and camp out in preparation for “doorbuster” deals to kick off Black Friday shopping. Ah, the holiday season. But whatever your shopping strategy is, there are some innovative ways to save a buck. Like triggering retailers to email you coupons by filling up a virtual shopping cart, then fully logging out of the site. Here are some other tips, and a guide to not overpaying on Black Friday. ____ 10. Finally, a story about Thanksgiving. Specifically, the story of a    homesick college student who made a traditional dinner for the first time in an icy cold dorm. The guests were five other kids who couldn’t get home. That was in 1981. “I wish I could remember if we had the sense to be grateful then, for the food, for the comfort of one another, for the luxury of our education,” she wrote recently. We hope you have a happy holiday with much to be grateful for. ____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p. m. Eastern. Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s Evening Briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.