WASHINGTON  —   Struggling to respond to Donald J. Trump’s victory, a group of shellshocked Democrats moved swiftly to endorse Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota for chairman of the Democratic National Committee, hoping that he would be a fresh face for a party with a depleted bench. But after steadily adding endorsements from leading Democrats in his bid to take over the party, Mr. Ellison is encountering resistance from a formidable corner: the White House. In a sign of the discord gripping the party, President Obama’s loyalists, uneasy with the progressive Mr. Ellison, have begun casting about for an alternative, according to multiple Democratic officials close to the president. The battle pits the titans of the Democratic Party against one another, with Mr. Obama’s camp at odds with figures like Chuck Schumer, the new Senate Democratic leader, and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. Mr. Obama’s advisers, some of whom discussed the party leadership race at a White House meeting last week, have talked about whether Labor Secretary Thomas E. Perez and former Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan would be willing to run for the post. Mr. Perez met with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. last week and had lunch Tuesday in the White House Mess with Valerie Jarrett, Mr. Obama’s senior adviser, while also visiting with David Simas, Mr. Obama’s political director. Some in Mr. Obama’s circle were even holding out hope that Mr. Biden himself could be persuaded to step into the chairmanship as a unifying force for a party reeling after losing the presidency and making scant gains in the House and Senate. But Mr. Biden’s office said Tuesday that he was “not interested in being D. N. C. chair,” though he plans to “remain deeply involved in helping shape the direction of the Democratic Party moving forward. ” The tumultuous tenure of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who was forced out as party leader in July, convinced a wide range of Democrats that whoever takes over the committee must make it their sole focus. “There’s too much at stake for us not to have somebody working in a   capacity,” said Michael Blake, a New York assemblyman and veteran of both of Mr. Obama’s campaigns, who is considering a D. N. C. vice chairmanship. “This has to be your priority. ” But there are other reasons for the discomfort with Mr. Ellison that illustrate lingering divisions after a bruising presidential primary fight and a general election in which Hillary Clinton suffered deep losses among   whites and could not match Mr. Obama’s support among young and nonwhite voters. Some Democrats, in Mr. Obama’s orbit and beyond, say that elevating Mr. Ellison would amount to handing the party to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Mrs. Clinton’s primary race opponent, and his liberal followers. Mr. Ellison was a   backer of Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign, and Mr. Sanders has been rallying support for Mr. Ellison’s D. N. C. bid. Already a polarizing figure among Democrats, he ignited new controversy this week by saying the party needed to “go beyond identity politics. ” “It’s not good enough for someone to say: ‘I’m a woman! Vote for me! ’” Mr. Sanders told students in Boston on Sunday, a comment widely seen as a criticism of Mrs. Clinton. “No, that’s not good enough. What we need is a woman who has the guts to stand up to Wall Street, to the insurance companies, to the drug companies, to the fossil fuel industry. ” This call for an   brand of liberalism is what galvanized so many of his supporters, but his blunt language also served to remind some Democrats of the divisive primary race. There is little appetite for a replay of that fight in the D. N. C. race, which will be decided by members of the committee when they gather in February for their winter meeting. Some top Democrats had hoped to   a contest by backing Mr. Ellison’s bid. Mr. Schumer, Ms. Warren and an array of House members and unions were lining up behind him even before he formally entered the race. But along with his inability to do the job full time and his links to Mr. Sanders, Mr. Ellison’s past criticism of Mr. Obama and praise for Louis Farrakhan, the Nation of Islam leader, worry some Democrats looking for a figure to lead the opposition to Mr. Trump. Mr. Ellison, a Muslim, defended Mr. Farrakhan in the 1990s, saying he was “not an ” and has positioned himself on the left flank of congressional Democrats on Israel. Jonathan Greenblatt, the head of the   League, called Mr. Ellison “an important ally in the fight against  ” but said he had taken positions on the   conflict “on which we strongly differ and that concern us. ” “We hope that all candidates for this post will make clear where they stand on these issues, and that the Democratic National Committee will make a choice that affirms the longstanding bipartisan consensus on a strong U. S.  relationship,” he said. Aides to Mr. Ellison were going to make him available for a telephone interview, but then declined when informed that he would be asked about his past comments on Mr. Farrakhan. They emailed a list of his links to the Jewish community and a statement that said, “Democrats need an organizer who will energize the   across this country to build the party from the bottom up. ” A handful of state Democratic leaders have entered or are considering entering the race, and Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor and D. N. C. chairman, has also expressed interest. But it is Mr. Perez, a son of Dominican immigrants, whom many prominent Democrats would like to see enter the race, and who appears most willing to consider it. The A. F. L. . I. O. has been considering an endorsement of Mr. Ellison but delayed its decision, in part because organized labor has a good relationship with Mr. Perez. Mr. Perez called Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A. F. L. . I. O. to tell him he was seriously considering a run and to ask him to hold off on an endorsement, according to three Democratic officials familiar with the conversation. A spokesman for Mr. Obama declined to comment on the race and said the administration was neutral. But many in the president’s sphere think highly of Mr. Perez and Ms. Granholm. “He’s very connected to the experience of everyday   people, and he has a connection to immigrant communities, as well,” David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s longtime strategist, said of Mr. Perez, who is also mulling a run for governor in Maryland in 2018. “He comes to this with a lot of assets if he were to step forward. ” Mr. Perez and Mrs. Granholm, who both declined to discuss whether they intended to run, were early supporters of Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, which could turn the D. N. C. race into the    proxy war some Democrats want to avoid.