Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • A recount effort in the United States presidential election that began in Wisconsin may extend this week to two more states narrowly lost by Hillary Clinton.   Donald J. Trump dismissed the effort as a “scam” and unleashed a daylong storm of Twitter posts, including asserting without evidence that his shortfall in the popular vote was because of “millions of people” voting illegally. The Twitter outburst also came as Mr. Trump is laboring to fill crucial positions in his cabinet. An adviser assailed Mitt Romney, one the top candidates for secretary of state, as having gone “out of his way to hurt” the   in the primaries. _____ • Mr. Trump’s business dealings around the globe are raising widespread concerns over conflicts of interest. One example is a postelection telephone call with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, in which the   praised his business associate in the Trump Towers in Istanbul, above. In Scotland, Mr. Trump built a wall on the border of his golf course, blocking the sea view of local residents, and then sent them the bill. _____ • François Fillon, a conservative government veteran who called for economic sacrifice, major changes in the workplace and a crackdown on immigration and Islam, won a runoff to represent France’s   Republican Party in April’s presidential contest. The outcome paved the way for a likely   with the country’s   party. _____ • The Cuban government is rolling out plans for a   period of “Duelo Nacional,” or national pain, after the death of Fidel Castro, 90. The country, which defied the United States for nearly half a century before hostilities eased, remains firmly in the grip of his brother, Raúl Castro. The capital, Havana, has been quiet, but Cuban exiles celebrated in Miami. Mr. Castro’s ashes will be interred on Sunday. _____ • In Tbilisi, Georgia, a   apartment shared by a computer science student and his younger brother is an unlikely offshore outpost of America’s fake news industry. “I did not write to make Trump win,” the student said. “I just wanted to get viewers and make some money. ” _____ • Swiss voters rejected a proposal to phase out nuclear power by 2029.  • American retailers have geared up for Cyber Monday, the last day of deals in what has become an annual shopping weekend. Sales rose 18 percent over last year, to $5. 3 billion. Visits to    stores dipped. • The European Court of Justice will hear arguments on Tuesday that will most likely determine how Uber can operate across the European Union. • Our business columnist tracked the fortune of J. K. Rowling, the “Harry Potter” author. He estimates Ms. Rowling’s net worth at $1. 2 billion, noting that she pays taxes and gives generously to charity. • A   thinks it may have found the secret to growing truffles. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • In Montenegro, a detained mercenary is slowly spilling his guts on a purported plot orchestrated by two Russians to kill the prime minister and install a new government hostile to NATO. [The New York Times] • Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former president of Ukraine, said that he regretted not ordering troops to disperse the mass protests that forced him into exile in Russia. [The New York Times] • The U. K. Independence Party is expected to announce its new leader today. [The Financial Times] • The Vatican is seeking a grand compromise with China’s Communist leaders to heal a   rift that has divided generations of Chinese Catholics. [The New York Times] • A Moroccan state broadcaster instructed women on ways to hide signs of domestic violence with makeup. [The Guardian] • U. S. officials say they will close a protest camp that has drawn thousands of Native Americans opposed to an oil pipeline in North Dakota. [The New York Times] • “I see the anger I was raised with rocking the nation. ” A young American who renounced white nationalism considers the wave of white rage that aligned behind Donald J. Trump as he ascended to the White House. [The New York Times] • A weekslong chess battle between Sergey Karjakin of Russia and the defending world champion, Magnus Carlsen of Norway, could end today. Simmering Cold War tensions have given the match weightier geopolitical overtones. A Russian spokesman said that President Vladimir V. Putin receives constant updates. • Anger rooms let customers smash objects to release their rage. Sessions are meant to be therapeutic, but mental health professionals question the efficacy of rampaging in a faux cubicle. • Nico Rosberg, driving for Mercedes, became the second son of a Formula One world champion to win the title himself. • “Hero of the Empire,” an account of Winston Churchill’s time in South Africa, and “Iza’s Ballad,” a meditative Hungarian novel, are among our 100 Notable Books of 2016. Here’s the full list. • And just look at these trees in Lapland, Finland’s northernmost region. They are so coated in frosty rime that they could be mistaken for towers of shaving foam. That banana you might be having for breakfast is probably a Cavendish, the most widely available variety of one of the world’s most popular fruits. But a deadly fungus is on the march, and the Cavendish’s lack of genetic diversity is raising fears of a possible “bananapocalypse. ” The killer, a strain of Panama disease called Tropical Race 4, has spread to China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Taiwan and the Northern Territory of Australia, and has recently been found in Africa and the Middle East. With its yellow peel and seedless fruit, the Cavendish makes up 95 percent of bananas sold worldwide, according to the U. N. Food and Agriculture Organization. The previous dominant variety, the Gros Michel, was devastated by another form of the fungus in the 1950s. Growers turned to the Cavendish, whose strength lies more in disease resistance than flavor. (One expert said it “had been considered something close to junk. ”) The Cavendish is thought to have arrived in England in the 1800s from Mauritius, taking its name from the family in whose greenhouse it was cultivated. Missionaries eventually carried it to the Pacific islands. One scientist sees a silver lining in newly urgent efforts to save the seeds from wild bananas. “Race 4 is a threat,” he says, “but it’s also an opportunity to start growing more diversity. ” Remy Tumin contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes. com.