Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York announced on Monday that he was ordering an investigation into racial bias in the state prison system after an investigation by The New York Times found that black inmates were punished at significantly higher rates than whites, sent to solitary confinement more often and held there longer. The investigation analyzed nearly 60, 000 disciplinary cases from 2015 and interviewed inmates at prisons around the state who said that guards often used racism to instill subservience. “I am directing the state inspector general to investigate the allegations of racial disparities in discipline in state prisons and to recommend appropriate reforms for immediate implementation,” Governor Cuomo said in a statement issued on Monday, calling the report “disturbing. ” One of the most striking examples of bias documented was at Clinton Correctional Facility near the Canadian border, the site of a dramatic escape by two white inmates last year. Only one of the 998 guards at the prison is   and black inmates there were nearly four times as likely as whites to be sent to isolation and were held there for an average of 125 days, compared with 90 days for whites, The Times found. Mr. Cuomo also said he planned to nominate several minority candidates to the state parole board. The Times’s investigation found that black inmates were denied parole at higher rates than whites. Of the current board’s 13 members, only one is a black man and none are Latino men, while the state prison population is nearly   black and Latino. “I will be advancing new appointments to the Senate this upcoming session to ensure the state’s Parole Board is reflective of the population it serves,” said Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat. Any new appointments to the board must be confirmed by the State Senate. In an interview about the parole system last week, Senator Patrick M. Gallivan, chairman of the committee that oversees the corrections department, said he would move quickly on any candidates nominated by Mr. Cuomo. “The governor could submit names early in January and we would consider them right away,” said Mr. Gallivan, a Republican. An analysis of thousands of parole decisions from the last several years found that fewer than one in six black or Hispanic men was released after his first hearing, compared with one in four white men. The disparity was most dramatic among   criminals. Since 2006, white inmates serving two to four years for a single count of   burglary have been released after serving an average of 803 days, while black inmates served an average of 883 days for the same crime. Former parole commissioners described a hearing process that was run like an assembly line and was so chaotic that they themselves sometimes did not know which inmate they were interviewing. While disparities in the front end of the criminal justice system  —   arrest, conviction and sentencing  —   have been well documented, the presence of bias inside prisons and at the parole board has received little attention. The problems are interrelated: A bad disciplinary record inside prison makes it harder to win parole. Across New York’s 54 prisons, black inmates said racism on the part of guards was pervasive. They described guards using slurs like spear chucker, porch monkey and worse, and there are cases of inmates having their dreadlocks ripped out. Uniformed staff members control the entire disciplinary process. Corrections officers issue charges, and their superiors in uniform determine guilt and decide punishment. Many inmates said they believed that the process was rigged. Though those charged with the most serious offenses are entitled to a hearing, they almost never win. In 2015, inmates lost 96 percent of disciplinary hearings. Black inmates also said they were often provoked into confrontations with guards that resulted in discipline. Black men were punished seven times as often as white men for   infractions, The Times found, and among inmates under 25, blacks received 185 disciplinary charges, while whites received only 14. One of the few prisons where the disciplinary process appears evenhanded is Sing Sing Correctional Facility in Ossining, which is less than an hour from New York City and the lone men’s prison in the state where   account for a majority of the uniformed staff. At Sing Sing, black inmates make up 57 percent of the population and get 58 percent of the disciplinary charges  —   or “tickets,” in prison parlance. One aspect of the disciplinary process, the use of solitary confinement, appears to have seen significant improvements in recent years, because of a settlement agreement with the New York Civil Liberties Union. Since 2014, the number of   in solitary confinement has decreased by 12 percent, according to the Cuomo administration, though they are still overrepresented. The administration said it had also improved training for officers who preside over disciplinary hearings and had eliminated solitary confinement for most   offenders. The changes have met with resistance from the corrections officers union, which says the reduction in the use of solitary has led to increased violence on cellblocks. Assaults on staff had been rising steadily since 2010, though the numbers fell by 16 percent from January to October, according to the state officials.