According to Toys “R” Us, one of the hottest action figures this holiday season will be the Star Wars Interactech Imperial Stormtrooper, a   plastic fighter that makes punching sounds. But there’s another fighter action figure  —   minus the sound effects  —   that’s getting the spotlight this month, and its name is Golda Meir. On Dec. 11, when the actress Tovah Feldshuh reprises her Tony   role as Meir in two performances of the play “Golda’s Balcony”  —   part of a benefit for Temple   in New York  —   guests will take home a   of Meir that stands just under three inches tall. The figurine of the former Israeli prime minister features her signature somber dark skirt and jacket, with a matronly string of pearls around her neck, sensible flats on her feet and her gray hair in a bun. The piece is the work of Asaf Harari, a   “souvenir designer” based in Tel Aviv. It’s part of a series of cheeky   of Israeli leaders, including Menachem Begin and David   from Mr. Harari’s design studio, Piece of History. Gady Levy, the executive director of Temple   said he ordered about 2, 000 of the   from Mr. Harari’s company as part of his promotional plan for All About Golda, the temple’s new   series that features classes, an exhibition and even a sweepstakes, called Go Golda Go, in which contestants post to Instagram photos of their action figure for the chance of winning a trip to Israel. Mr. Harari, 31, recently talked about action figures. Following are edited excerpts from the conversation. I have to be honest. When I first heard there was such a thing as a Golda Meir action figure, I laughed.  Israeli and Jewish people are very cynical. We don’t like to admire people. We like to find the flaws and the negative stuff in each person. We don’t like to make people kings. The figurine keeps the character of Golda, but it’s also funny. What made you decide to depict her in these clothes? This is the way the Israeli people, when they say Golda Meir  —   it’s like this, with a pearl necklace and one long dress with dark shoes. It’s a basic caricature of pictures that you can find. What is she made of? Vinyl. It’s like plastic, but soft. It’s hand painted. It’s designed in Israel and molded in Israel, but it’s mass manufactured in China. Has anyone been offended? A few times, nasty comments and   comments about making these figurines. A lot of people don’t like the idea of Israel itself, and don’t like the idea that I’m making heroes of people who helped create Israel. From Jewish people I’ve gotten comments about her nose, because it’s too big. But I’m laughing at Jewish characteristics. How popular is the Golda Meir figure compared with your other pieces? She’s No. 1. Everybody loves her.