CHARLESTON, S. C.  —   Polly Sheppard, a    retired nurse and longtime stalwart of Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, dived under a table as the gunfire began and did the only thing she could think to do: She prayed aloud. She could see the bullet casings skittering across the floor of the fellowship hall and the young man’s boots approaching. Dylann S. Roof told her to “shut up,” then asked menacingly if he had shot her yet. “I said ‘no,’” Ms. Sheppard testified on Wednesday, as the final witness in the guilt phase of Mr. Roof’s federal trial on 33 counts, including hate crimes resulting in death. “And he said, ‘I’m not going to. I’m going to leave you to tell the story. ’” She did, in a panicked call to a 911 operator that night, and again on Wednesday, when she described the events to a courtroom crowded with family members of the nine parishioners Mr. Roof is accused of killing in a massacre on June 17, 2015. After Ms. Sheppard finished testifying, the prosecution rested, and Mr. Roof’s defense lawyers followed suit after declining to call any witnesses. With their eyes on the sentencing phase of the death penalty trial, the lawyers have tried to make suggestions of Mr. Roof’s mental incapacity, but have been allowed little leeway by Judge Richard M. Gergel. Before the defense rested, Judge Gergel, of Federal District Court, summoned Mr. Roof to the bench, placed him under oath out of the jury’s presence and asked if he wanted to testify in his own defense. Mr. Roof, 22, with pale white skin and a distinctive   haircut, said he did not. Judge Gergel has scheduled closing arguments for Thursday, and jurors are then expected to begin deliberations. If Mr. Roof is convicted  —   a virtual certainty, as he confessed in a recorded F. B. I. interview and left a trail of incontrovertible evidence  —   the jury will return in January to hear more evidence and decide whether to sentence him to death or to life in prison. Mr. Roof, who offered to plead guilty in exchange for a life term, plans to represent himself during that phase. He also faces capital murder charges in state court in a trial scheduled to begin on Jan. 17. Over six days, federal prosecutors presented the jury with an array of technical evidence that established the timeline of Mr. Roof’s plot, but they bookended their case with Ms. Sheppard’s testimony and that of her friend and fellow survivor, Felicia Sanders, who appeared as the opening witness. Guided gently through questioning by an assistant United States attorney, Julius N. Richardson, Ms. Sheppard humanized the nine victims. There was the Rev. Daniel Lee Simmons Sr. known as “Dapper Dan,” who always wore a fedora and usually led the Bible study. She spoke of Ethel Lee Lance, who cleaned the church with “a woman’s touch” and loved the song “One Day at a Time. ” Tywanza Sanders had a “big smile,” and his   Susie Jackson, was “a very sweet lady. ” The Rev. DePayne   “could sing like an angel. ” Cynthia Hurd, a librarian, had a soft spot for Zora Neale Hurston. And the Rev. Sharonda   the tall, graceful track coach, could preach like nobody’s business. Ms. Sheppard said she attended the Bible study that night only because her    friend, Myra Thompson, was leading it. She sat near the back because she planned to sneak out early, but Ms. Thompson kept an eye on her. At some point, Ms. Sheppard testified, nodding toward Mr. Roof, “the young man at the table over there joined us. ” She said the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, asked Mr. Roof if he was there for the study session, handed him a Bible and a pamphlet about the night’s lesson, and offered him a chair. Usually, Ms. Sheppard said, the group would end with a prayer adapted from Genesis: “The Lord watch between me and thee when we are absent from another. ” But as they rose for the benediction, the gunman began firing, she said. Mr. Pinckney was the first to be shot. Ms. Sheppard said she first thought the explosions had come from the church’s aging wiring but then heard Ms. Sanders scream, “He’s shooting!” She reached for Ms. Lance’s cellphone and, after initially pressing the wrong buttons, managed to dial 911. “He shot the pastor,” she told the dispatcher during a recorded call that was played in court on Wednesday. “He shot all the men in the church. ” Soon after, she told the dispatcher, “There’s so many people dead, I think. Oh, my God. ” When the gunman finally left the building, Ms. Sheppard checked the pulse of Mr. Pinckney and another victim. She found none. Mr. Roof, who confessed that he had planned to kill himself if confronted by the police at the church, fled in his car into the sweltering South Carolina night. He was captured the next day in North Carolina. The evidence that prosecutors presented against him included GPS data showing he had visited the church’s neighborhood six times in the six months before the attack and telephone records showing he had called the church four months before. They also have used Mr. Roof’s writings, photographs and possessions to depict him as a racial extremist. Jurors heard, for instance, that he had downloaded a history of the Ku Klux Klan in August 2014, and that investigators found in his bedroom a pillowcase cut into a triangular shape, perhaps to represent a Klan hood. Prosecutors presented photographs Mr. Roof had taken of the Confederate battle flag when it flew on the grounds of the State House, before its removal in July 2015 in response to the shootings. They had a witness read aloud a white supremacist manifesto that Mr. Roof had posted online. They also showed chilling footage of Mr. Roof’s preparations for his assault on the church, including surveillance video of his purchase of a Glock . 45 caliber handgun and   ammunition. Mr. Roof also recorded himself, wearing a black muscle shirt and reflective sunglasses, practicing with his    pistol, expressionlessly firing shot after shot. But on the final day of testimony, prosecutors turned away from Mr. Roof’s planning and back to its consequences. A forensic pathologist, Dr. S. Erin Presnell, described the findings of autopsies that showed the nine parishioners had been struck at least 60 times. Then Ms. Sheppard, a bright pink scarf draped around her neck, mounted the witness stand. She plucked a tissue or two from a nearby box, and told her story for about 40 minutes. There was no   from Mr. Roof’s lawyer, David I. Bruck. “Ms. Sheppard, I’m so sorry,” he told her softly. “I have no questions. ”