BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   The evacuation of residents from the last   section in the devastated Syrian city of Aleppo broke down on Friday with thousands of people still trapped inside, as concern escalated about their fate. The breakdown  —   a day after Syrian government buses and ambulances had begun taking people out of the besieged area  —   came as Russia claimed, incorrectly, that all civilians wishing to leave had already been evacuated and that only “irreconcilable” fighters remained, further raising fears among those still trapped. Tensions came to a head on Friday afternoon, when a convoy of hundreds of evacuees was detained and turned back by   militiamen. They blocked the way, according to rebel and   fighters, because insurgents in Idlib Province, farther north, were blocking an evacuation of civilians from two villages besieged by rebels. There were also multiple accounts that the   militiamen shot dead several passengers in the convoy, detained at least six and took telephones, laptops and documents from others, before sending the rest back into the rebel enclave. Those accounts could not immediately be independently confirmed. Russian and Syrian officials say that government forces are protecting civilians. The government’s recapture of Aleppo, once Syria’s commercial epicenter, after a prolonged siege by Syrian forces aided by their Russian allies has been exalted by President Bashar   of Syria as a turning point in the nearly    war. But the images of death, suffering and destruction have shocked the world. Buses had been taking civilians and fighters out of the shrinking rebel area under a deal struck between Russia, which backs the Syrian government, and Turkey, which supports the rebels. Blame for the breakdown was placed on   spoilers on both sides  —       Shiite militias and the   Levant Conquest Front on the rebel side  —   illustrating the fragmentation of both government and rebel forces that makes carrying out any deal harder and riskier. The deal became more complicated after Iran, Syria’s other main ally, which has sponsored thousands of Shiite militiamen to shore up government forces, added a new demand: evacuations from Foua and Kfarya, two   minority Shiite villages encircled and frequently shelled by rebels who had intensified attacks during the government offensive in Aleppo. Rebel leaders said a deal was struck to evacuate wounded people from the villages. Nearly 10, 000 civilians and fighters had been bused out of eastern Aleppo by Friday morning, Russian and opposition officials agree, but none from Foua and Kfarya. Al Manar, the television channel of the Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah, which fights alongside the Syrian government, showed what it said were protesters blocking the convoy route out of eastern Aleppo. The accounts of killings and abuses on the stopped convoy were conveyed via telephone and by text and video messages by four civilian witnesses and two rebel officials. The militiamen forced the convoy’s Red Cross and Red Crescent escorts to leave the area, witnesses said, meaning the escorts did not see the whole episode. France said Friday that it would sponsor a United Nations resolution requiring “international observers” to monitor the evacuations the United States said it would support the move, a largely symbolic gesture because of a likely Russian veto. The Syrian government has denied United Nations staff permission to monitor the process, and the I. C. R. C. avoids roles that involve making public reports, to preserve its access to all sides. Zaher   an antigovernment activist in the convoy, said militiamen at a checkpoint with yellow flags stopped the vehicles, fired in the air and began taking cellphones and laptops from the evacuees. One unarmed passenger accosted them for talking impolitely to his pregnant wife, Mr. Zaher said in a telephone interview, “so they shot him on the spot,” along with two others. Zouhair   another activist reached briefly by phone, said he was in the convoy when militiamen stopped it and shot four men, telling them, “It’s payback. ” Several other passengers described being forced to lie down, remove shoes or some of their clothes and hand over possessions. A photograph that rebel spokesmen said showed part of the episode portrays a dozen men lying face down on a road at gunpoint. Geolocation techniques showed that the image matched the reported location of the stop and a photograph of the halted convoy taken from a distance by a British journalist in government territory. Many more people had tried and failed to get on the convoy, and were still milling around the area they ran when they heard gunshots. Videos showed crowds of people fleeing in panic from the evacuation point past wrecked buildings, crying, wrapped in blankets, carrying or dragging children, though it was unclear if the shooting that can be heard was related to the alleged killings. Earlier, Russia declared the evacuation “completed,” saying “all women and children” had been bused out, leaving only “irreconcilable and radical” armed fighters. It said Syrian government forces were “liquidating the radicals’ remaining points of resistance. ” But the World Health Organization’s Syria representative, Elizabeth Hoff, said thousands remained, including many women and many children under 5. She said W. H. O. staff had been ordered to leave the evacuation area Friday morning, but “no reason was given. ” Rebel leaders said they were deeply concerned by Russia’s statements playing down civilians’ presence because it had been the guarantor of the evacuations. They feared it had lost control of Iran and its ground allies and was seeking to absolve itself of any new violence against civilians. Adding to the volatility of the situation, many of the Levant Conquest Front’s fighters have already been bused out of eastern Aleppo, according to a civilian who rode with them. That could give the   group less incentive to cooperate with the Idlib evacuation.