AMMAN, Jordan  —   Seven Jordanian security officers, a Canadian tourist and two Jordanian civilians were killed by gunmen in the southern city of Karak on Sunday, according to a joint statement from the Public Security Department and the Jordanian armed forces. The security forces later captured and killed four of the gunmen, the statement said. It did not specify the total number of what security officials called “terrorist outlaws” involved in the attacks, or suggest a motive. Officials were also investigating whether the gunmen had ties to any terrorist organization. The violence began when a patrol was sent to check on reports of a house on fire. When security officers arrived on the scene, they were met with a barrage of gunfire from inside the home, injuring two officers. The gunmen fled, according to the statement. Gunmen then attacked a police station in the city. Later in the day, the police were informed that gunmen were hiding inside the Karak Crusader castle, a prominent tourist attraction on a hilltop. The gunmen fired at several police officers from the castle, security officials said. A cache of weapons was seized from the castle, as well as explosives, suicide vests and more weapons from the home where the men first encountered the officers, said Amer Saratwi, a spokesman for the Public Security Department. The statement confirmed the death of four police officers, three gendarmes, two civilians and a Canadian tourist, without specifying where the deaths had occurred.   people were injured, the statement said. Several Canadian news outlets identified the tourist as Linda Vatcher, a retired teacher from Newfoundland. At the time of the attack, she was visiting her son Christopher, who works in the region. He is among the injured, news reports said. Prime Minister Hani Mulki, addressing members of Parliament, said that several people had been killed and that Jordan’s special forces had surrounded an area in the city where five or six of the attackers were holed up. Videos released by Karak residents and posted on local news websites showed tribal leaders and young local residents holding rifles and aiding officers in the hunt for the gunmen near the castle. Terrorist attacks in Jordan, a crucial ally of the United States in the region, are relatively rare, but the country is continually on alert because of the threat posed by extremists, particularly from the Islamic State.