The N. F. L. playoff picture became much clearer on Sunday, with the Patriots, Raiders and Cowboys all tightening their grips on the top spots. Elsewhere, the Packers threw a wrench in the Lions’ plans in the N. F. C. North, and the A. F. C. South is still a mess. Here’s what we learned in N. F. L. Week 15: ■ There is no quarterback controversy in Dallas. ■ Tom Brady can win in Denver, but that doesn’t mean it will be pretty. The Patriots’ quarterback came into the game with a   record on the road against the Broncos (his season ended there in two of the last three seasons) but New England held onto the No. 1 seed in the A. F. C. with a boring victory. More good news for the Patriots: they probably won’t have to face Denver in the playoffs because the Broncos’ season is unraveling quickly. ■ For the first time, fans can post on social media that the Oakland Raiders have qualified for the playoffs. It was 2002, long before Facebook, Twitter or even MySpace, when the Raiders last played a playoff game, but with a win over the San Diego Chargers on Sunday they secured a trip to the playoffs, have a lead in their division, and still have a chance at home field advantage throughout the playoffs. More importantly, the team’s defense secured the victory, which could portend good things going forward. ■ The A. F. C. South is still the ugly duckling division of the N. F. L. with the underwhelming Houston Texans continuing to lead the way (by virtue of a tiebreaker over Tennessee) after Sunday’s win over Jacksonville. The Titans may not be much more fun to watch than Houston, but their upset victory over Kansas City would seemingly indicate that they are the superior team. ■ Green Bay might just do this thing. In a   start to the season, the Packers seemed incompetent on both sides of the ball and were quickly falling out of postseason contention. But with four consecutive wins, and Ty Montgomery’s emergence helping to balance out the team’s offense, Green Bay will win the N. F. C. North if they win their two remaining games. A single loss after an   winning streak led to a mass exodus from the Dak Prescott bandwagon last week. But the rookie quarterback of the Dallas Cowboys was apparently not willing to go off quietly into the night, having a big first half against Tampa Bay, and then holding off a valiant   comeback attempt by the Buccaneers in a   Dallas victory. The game was a return to form for Prescott, who threw two interceptions in last week’s   loss to the Giants. For some doubters, that loss had restarted the quarterback controversy between Prescott and Tony Romo, which had seemed settled after Prescott and his fellow rookie, Ezekiel Elliott, led Dallas to the N. F. L. ’s best record with a mix of big plays and relatively few mistakes. Against Tampa Bay’s formidable defense, both Dallas rookies showed why the league has come to fear them. Prescott completed 32 of 36 passes for 279 yards, and nabbed his sixth rushing touchdown of the season, breaking a tie with Don Meredith for the franchise record, which Meredith had held since 1966. Elliott was also a driving force, carrying the ball 23 times for 159 yards and a touchdown, and he played to the home crowd in the first half by leaping into an oversized Salvation Army bucket after scoring. He increased his N. F. L.  total to 1, 551 rushing yards, becoming just the seventh rookie to run for more than 1, 500. If there was a criticism of Dallas to be made it was that they had to rely on Dan Bailey to make four of his six field goal attempts to secure the win, but the team showed a great deal of resilience after Tampa Bay reeled off 14 unanswered points in the third quarter. Overall, the game was a mixed bag for Jameis Winston, who looked dominant in the third quarter but also personally accounted for four turnovers in the game, including three interceptions. He also had a costly unsportsmanlike penalty potentially cost his team a touchdown in the first half. Given the ball with a chance to win it as time was running out, Winston threw an interception on    that effectively ended the game. With the win, Dallas continues to be the No. 1 seed in the N. F. C. and the team has a   lead in their division over the Giants. Tampa Bay, meanwhile, was knocked out of the second   position in the N. F. C. with the Washington Redskins at    having a narrow lead over the   Buccaneers. The   Oakland Raiders have risen to the top of the standings this season thanks to a   offense. But it was gutsy work in the trenches by the team’s   defense that led to a   victory over the San Diego Chargers, putting the Raiders back in the playoffs for the first time since 2002. Struggling offensively for much of the game, the Raiders were down   in the fourth quarter when Kenneth Farrow of the Chargers ran the ball up the middle. He was stopped two yards short of the line of scrimmage and as he went down, Perry Riley of the Raiders stripped the ball away. After the officials had pulled enough players off the pile, Malcolm Smith came up with the ball, giving it back to the Raiders’ offense on the   line. Oakland only came away with a field goal off the turnover, but the Raiders’ defense came through yet again, forcing the Chargers to punt. Given the ball with 6:27 left in a tie game, Derek Carr engineered a     drive that ended with a   field goal by Sebastian Janikowski that put the Raiders in the lead to stay. The defense then came through yet again on San Diego’s last drive, intercepting Rivers so Carr could kneel on the ball to seal the win. It was a slow day for Carr, who is considered by many to be a candidate for Most Valuable Player. He completed 19 of 30 passes for 213 yards and 1 touchdown, but he did just enough to let Janikowski, the only remaining member of the last Raiders playoff team, seal the victory. With the win, the Raiders have a   lead over the Kansas City Chiefs in the A. F. C. West with two games remaining. Oakland closes out their season with a home game against the Indianapolis Colts and then travel to Denver for a   division matchup against the Broncos. Tom Brady wasn’t perfect, but he didn’t need to be against the struggling Denver Broncos. Brady started the game 0 for 6 on passing attempts  —   tying a career high  —   and he completed just 50 percent of his passes for the game, but with the help of LeGarrette Blount’s 15th rushing touchdown and Stephen Gostkowski’s three field goals, the New England Patriots beat the Broncos  . With the win, the Patriots locked up their eighth straight A. F. C. East division title. While the Patriots’ offense played things conservatively, with Brady completing just 16 of 32 passes for 188 yards, they got 95 rushing yards from Dion Lewis and the only true highlight of the game was when Blount ran in yet another   score, breaking Curtis Martin’s franchise record for   rushing touchdowns, which Martin set in 1995 and equaled in 1996. New England has a home game against the Jets next week and then finishes its season on the road against the Miami Dolphins. If the Green Bay Packers fulfill Aaron Rodgers’ promise to “run the table” after a   start, which would secure the team the N. F. C. North title, it may be because the team finally found a reliable running back in the form of an unknown young wide receiver. Ty Montgomery’s big first half, and a   of a second half in which the Chicago Bears erased a   Packers lead, resulted in a   victory for Green Bay. In the end it was Aaron Rodgers who saved the Packers. On    with 40 seconds left in regulation, he threw a perfect deep ball (60 yards) to Jordy Nelson to set up the   field goal by Mason Crosby. The win came in spite of Chicago having the biggest comeback in the team’s history, which dates back to 1920, and it went a long way to opening up Green Bay’s postseason chances. The Minnesota Vikings and Detroit Lions both lost, which means if the Packers, who face Detroit in Week 17, win the team’s two remaining games, they will win the division.   temperatures in Chicago did not prevent either team from scoring, with Montgomery, who still wears No. 88 after being drafted as a receiver last season, having the best game of his young career. He has carried the ball 16 times for 162 yards, including 2 touchdowns and a   scamper in the second quarter that showed off his development at the position as he spun out of a tackle at the line of scrimmage, shed another tackler down field, and then turned on the jets on the long run. Later in the second quarter, a   run that helped set up a   field goal was perhaps even more impressive as Montgomery carried a pile of players several yards down the field at the end of the play, showing off a power aspect of his game that had thus far been missing. The   fourth quarter comeback by Matt Barkley and the Bears’ offense was the biggest by either team in 194 games against each other, but a brutal third quarter, that included a fumble on a sack and two interceptions by Barkley proved too much to overcome when all was said and done. The Packers will look to extend the team’s winning streak next week in a home game against the struggling Vikings, and could get some help in terms of a division title if the Lions lose in a tough matchup against the Dallas Cowboys. ’u200b So often already in his young N. F. L. career, Odell Beckham Jr. has seemed to pull the Giants to victory with his     receiving gifts. It has almost come to be expected. And the Detroit Lions still could not stop him. A   touchdown grab by Beckham late in the fourth quarter Sunday helped the Giants prevail,   at MetLife Stadium in a game between two of the N. F. C. ’s best teams. At   the Giants now have the conference’s   record. Detroit fell to  .  —   Zach Schonbrun Read our entire Giants game report here. Elsewhere around the league in Week 15: ■ The Baltimore Ravens survived a desperate comeback bid by the Philadelphia Eagles, escaping with a   victory Sunday after stopping a   conversion with 4 seconds left. If Baltimore defeats Pittsburgh on Christmas Day and Cincinnati in the   finale, the Ravens will enter the postseason as AFC North champions. ■ The collapse of the Minnesota Vikings appears complete, as the team is now   after a blowout   loss to the Indianapolis Colts. The team’s   start to the season is a distant memory. ■ Ryan Succop kicked a   field goal into the wind as time expired to give the Tennessee Titans a   victory over the Kansas City Chiefs on a frigid Sunday and keep the Titans tied with Houston atop the AFC South. Succop came up short on his first try at the winner, but Chiefs coach Andy Reid had called a timeout just before the snap. Given a second chance, Succop knocked it through with a couple feet to spare as the Titans poured off the bench to celebrate. ■ Drew Brees snapped out of a   funk to throw for 389 yards and four touchdowns, leading the New Orleans Saints to a   victory over Arizona in the N. F. L. ’s   game this season. Brees, who had zero touchdown passes and six interceptions in his previous two games, threw no interceptions. Brandin Cooks caught seven passes for a   186 yards, including touchdown plays of 65 and 45 yards. ■ The Cleveland Browns’ losing streak is at 14 games this season after losing to the Buffalo Bills,  . ■ The Steelers scored 15 unanswered points in the second half and won   over the Cincinnati Bengals with Eli Rogers catching the   touchdown from Ben Roethlisberger with 7:29 left in the game. ■ Brock Osweiler, the prized free agent quarterback who was brought in this   to stabilize the Houston Texans, was benched after throwing two   interceptions, but his replacement, Tom Savage, passed for 260 yards and helped lead a      victory over the Jacksonville Jaguars, which kept Houston ahead of the Titans in the A. F. C. South by way of a tiebreaker.