Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: •  Russia’s ambassador to Turkey was fatally shot while giving a speech in Ankara, an attack a Russian official characterized as a terror attack. The gunman, described by Turkish officials as a      police officer, shouted “don’t forget Aleppo, don’t forget Syria! ,” as captured in this video (warning, graphic images). Russia has long backed Syria’s government in that country’s brutal civil war. _____ • Hours earlier, the United Nations passed a resolution to monitor the evacuation of tens of thousands of civilians from the fallen city of Aleppo. Russia signed on only after a compromise that could allow Syrian soldiers and allied Shiite militias to block the monitors’ access. One of the civilians saved is a    girl whose tweets describing life in wartime have drawn comparisons to Anne Frank. In Iraq, where the urban war against the Islamic State is grinding on, up to one million people are trapped in the city of Mosul, running low on food and water. _____ • The International Monetary Fund endorsed its leader, Christine Lagarde, despite her conviction in a French court on charges of misusing public funds. The judge declined to impose a fine or jail time. Ms. Lagarde said she would not appeal. Here are the basics of the case, which involved the misuse of public funds when she served as France’s finance minister. _____ • “I could not think of two more different protagonists in the great drama of U. S.  relations. ” The analyst quoted was referring to China’s steely, calculated and scripted president, Xi Jinping, and the brash,   Donald J. Trump, whose election was formally validated amid protests today. The dispute over China’s seizure of U. S. underwater drone this week offers hints at the possibly combustible mix of their different styles in the case of bigger tensions _____ • Indonesia’s daunting shortage of skilled workers  —   in fields ranging from medical services to agriculture  —   could thwart President Joko Widodo’s ambitious plans to upgrade the country’s outdated infrastructure. • The founder of Blued, China’s most popular gay dating app, is a former police officer who secretly ran a website for gay people for 16 years. • Wall Street forecasters are delivering their market predictions for the coming year  —   which our columnist reminds to take with more than a grain of salt. Remember 2008? Stocks were supposed to be great that year.  • Malaysia’s ringgit hit its lowest level since the Asian financial crisis in 1998. • The yen recovered against the U. S. dollar as the Bank of Japan upgraded its economic outlook. • Wall Street was up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Twelve people were killed in Berlin after a truck driver plowed into a Christmas market. [The New York Times] • Gunmen involved in a terrorist attack in Jordan on Sunday had a stash of weapons, explosives and suicide vests, suggesting plans for more attacks. [The New York Times] • Australians reported the highest levels of  life satisfaction yet in the 16 years of an annual survey. [Australian Associated Press] • Thailand is slowly showing signs of moving on after the death of the   king, Bhumibol Adulyadej, and the succession of his son. [The New York Times] • Norway and China normalized diplomatic and political ties, frozen since 2010 when Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. [The New York Times] •   Chinese tourists are becoming an   force in New York. [The New York Times] • New legislation in the U. S. is expected to worsen the water wars among farmers, fishing industries and environmentalists. [The Associated Press] • Cities across eastern China imposed emergency measures over hazardous air pollution. Exposure levels to the most dangerous particles, called PM 2. 5, reached 40 times the recommended threshold in Hebei Province. [South China Morning Post] • In the Siberian city of Irkutsk, Russia, at least 48 people died after drinking scented bath lotion as a cheap substitute for alcohol. [The New York Times] • Tokyo estimates that it will cost $3. 2 billion over 30 years to decommission a prototype fast breeder reactor that has been plagued with problems. [Asahi Shimbun] • The Year in News. The U. S. presidential election and the candidates were popular subjects for Times readers this year, but our   article, like last year, was about love. Here’s the full list  —   with a “no politics” option. • Pregnancy alters the size and structure of  a woman’s brain in ways that may make it easier to recognize an infant’s needs, researchers say. • China Machado, the first nonwhite supermodel and an   pioneer who forced the world to rethink what is considered beautiful, died at 86. • Our Daily 360 video offers a glimpse of reproductions of the prehistoric art in the Lascaux caves in France, circa 15, 000 B. C. The actual caves were closed to the public more than 50 years ago. When is a phone call like a diplomatic life preserver? When you’re Taiwan, and on the other end of the line is   Donald J. Trump, the first American leader to speak to you in 37 years. Above, President Tsai   during the call. “When you are small and fighting a much bigger adversary,” a Taiwanese diplomat told The Times a few months ago, “you had better use your wisdom. ” China considers the island, ruled by Nationalists who fled the Communist takeover in 1949, a renegade province. So when the U. S. and China opened diplomatic relations in 1979, the U. S. had to cut off Taiwan. As China’s might and markets grew, most other countries followed suit. Taiwan is now recognized by just 22 countries, mostly tiny island nations in the Caribbean and Pacific swayed by Taipei’s aid packages. Two years ago, a former Guatemalan leader admitted to accepting Taiwanese bribes for diplomatic recognition. Taiwan’s last ally in Europe is the Vatican. But there, too, officials have made overtures toward China, which has a vigorous, if partly underground, Catholic community. For now, Nicaragua remains with Taiwan. But it may sway: A mainland Chinese company has pledged to create a transoceanic shipping route through it, to rival the Panama Canal. Patrick Boehler contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.