RALEIGH, N. C.  —   Political chaos has become as much a fixture of life here as the basketball rivalry between Duke and the University of North Carolina: four years of battles, boycotts, protests and standoffs over voting, gerrymandering,   ordinances, bathroom access and the ability of Republicans to strip power from the governor’s office as soon as a Democrat wins it. The warfare has turned North Carolina, once the South’s beacon of moderation, into perhaps the most polarized state in the country. Politics, more often than not here, has become blood sport, a toxic twist on the historical tensions in a state that, much like the nation, is split down the middle even as Republicans enjoy almost all of the political power. As such, North Carolina may serve as a kind of window into the American future. “We’ve become Exhibit A of our country’s political trends,” said Representative David E. Price, a veteran Democrat and a political scientist by training. This is a place where the thriving, liberal population centers, like the Research Triangle of Raleigh, Durham and Chapel Hill, seem to move in orbits entirely apart from the struggling, staunchly conservative countryside. It is a place where Republican leaders, who took full control of the executive and legislative branches four years ago for the first time in more than a century, have audaciously remade rules and flouted norms in their effort to restore North Carolina to their perception of greatness. It is a place defined by a disquieting political parallel: Once Democrats changed the rules of the game to help stave off Republicans on the rise across the South. Now the Republicans are delivering payback, trying to retain their grip even as population growth soars in its   cities. “We Republicans learned from the Democrats,” said Jim Martin, a former Republican governor, predicting that his party would eventually be on the receiving end of a backlash similar to the one that befell Democrats. “They’ll have accumulated the same sort of baggage, and it’ll swing back the other way. ” But some here think that the Republicans have taken extraordinary steps to subvert democratic norms by limiting access to the polls stripping power from the Democratic   Roy Cooper and using sophisticated computer software to draw legislative districts that virtually ensure they will enjoy lopsided power. This year, federal courts struck down many of the voting restrictions and gerrymandered districts, saying they harmed racial minorities. Andrew Reynolds is a political science professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill who has helped design a system called the Electoral Integrity Project, which evaluates the fairness of election systems globally. In a column this week in The News  Observer, the Raleigh newspaper, Professor Reynolds said the system’s “electoral integrity score” for North Carolina ranked the state alongside Cuba, Indonesia and Sierra Leone. He called the state “a deeply flawed, partly free democracy that is only slightly ahead of the failed democracies that constitute much of the developing world. ” He also called it the worst state in the country for unfair districting. Mr. Cooper, who will take office Jan. 1, narrowly defeated Pat McCrory, the incumbent Republican, in November. This month, the   legislature passed bills to crimp the power of the governor  —   already a relatively weak office by design  —   and Mr. McCrory signed them into law. Democrats called it a power grab. But Republicans reminded anyone who would listen about the sins of the Democratic past, including an incident in which a Democratic governor, Jim Hunt, victorious in 1976, asked for the resignation of scores of employees from the previous Republican administration. This week brought another drama: a failed effort by legislators to repeal a controversial law, commonly known as House Bill 2, that curbs protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. The law led to the cancellation of planned job expansions and the relocation of coveted championship sports events out of the state. Sara Thompson was among scores of protesters who flocked to the legislature to protest House Bill 2. But on Wednesday, she was holding a sign with a message, directed at Republicans, that was broader than L. G. B. T. rights. It declared: “Democracy: You’re doing it wrong. ” Ms. Thompson, 34, grew up in Greenville, N. C. and is pursuing a doctoral degree. Like many liberals, she does not believe the Republicans are playing fair. “It’s like they lost the game,” she said of the governor’s race, “so now they are taking their ball and going home. ” But Ms. Thompson also sees the Republicans’ agenda as anathema to her vision of North Carolina as a hopeful beacon for a new South  —   a place, she said, where public education and diversity are cherished, “a place where you get Southern hospitality, but you also get a lot of progressive,   people. ” To Republicans like State Representative David R. Lewis, the liberal vision was a mess when Republicans gained power. In 2007, a former Democratic speaker of the House, Jim Black, pleaded guilty to accepting bribes from chiropractors. Republicans contend that the last Democratic governor, Bev Perdue, left the state in dire fiscal straits. The Republicans rolled out an ambitious agenda beginning in 2013, with new abortion and voting restrictions, deep tax cuts and a school voucher program. Now even Mr. Lewis, the chairman of the House rules committee, wonders if it was too much, too soon. “I think part of the reason the reaction has been as radically negative as it has is that the Republicans, with their first opportunity to govern in a century, probably pushed our agenda a little bit faster than people were able to keep up,” he said. North Carolinians have been battling, often bitterly, over their vision for the state for decades. The duality of North Carolina has long been definitional if a little perplexing: This is where Senator Jesse Helms perfected the art of the   culturally conservative pitch to voters in the latter half of the last century even as the state was electing progressive,   Democrats like Terry Sanford in the 1960s and Mr. Hunt, who served a total of four   terms between 1977 and 2001. Through it all, however, North Carolina retained a vital political center. Like many Southern states, it was dominated by a white business elite, but there was a clearly vigorous commitment here to education and infrastructure spending that leaders in both parties thought separated them from the rest of the region. “Terry told me if you dig below a certain level you would find some of the same instincts here that were present in our sister Southern states,” Dan Blue, an   state senator, said of Mr. Sanford, a longtime friend. “But people were unwilling to dig that deeply primarily because we had a business community that discouraged it. ” But the growing polarization has prompted many Democrats and even some Republicans to hope that the state’s business community will again push the state back to the political center. North Carolina’s   business giants have already shown a willingness to flex their muscle as they largely opposed House Bill 2. Mr. Martin, a fixture in the Republican Party’s diminished moderate wing, said the state needed political competition now just as much as it did when he registered as a   species, a Southern Republican, in 1960. “I think   dominance is wrong and it injures the South,” he said. He and Mr. Hunt have linked arms to lobby for what they believe could be the most potent antidote to polarization: an overhaul of the state’s redistricting process. “Neither party has to work with the moderates now because of the way the districts are drawn,” Mr. Martin said. What gives Democrats hope, and alarms Republicans, is that the state is becoming more ethnically diverse and heavy on voters from other states. In 1980, 75 percent of North Carolina’s   population was born in the state. This year, only 54 percent of North Carolina voters were natives. The next test for both parties will come in   special legislative elections to be held late next year, prompted by the federal court ruling that some of the   districts amounted to racial gerrymandering. For now, the reality is divided government, with a governor and legislature whose initial stab at cooperation, the repeal of House Bill 2, disintegrated in a wave of recrimination. Compromise itself in an evenly divided state has become merely aspirational. “Certainly,” Mr. Lewis said, “there ought to be some common ground in there somewhere. ”