BEIJING  —   The Chinese military, in a move analysts described as a challenge to   Donald J. Trump’s strident criticism of China, has deployed an aircraft carrier to patrol the contested South China Sea, officials said on Tuesday. The ship, which is known as the Liaoning and is China’s first and only aircraft carrier, was spotted leading five other Chinese warships this week in patrols near the coasts of Taiwan and Japan. China claims the South China Sea as its own despite objections from neighboring countries and the United States. Chinese military experts called the deployment of the Liaoning a   challenge to American military dominance in the Pacific. Several said the move appeared aimed at testing Mr. Trump, who has antagonized Beijing with acerbic words and actions on issues like Taiwan, trade and North Korea. “The message is: ‘If you test our bottom line, we’ll play that game too,’” said Ni Lexiong, a naval expert at Shanghai University of Political Science and Law. The decision by Beijing to deploy the carrier group seemed likely to complicate an increasingly fractious relationship between China and the United States. Nowhere are those tensions more on display than in the South China Sea, where American forces have resisted China’s efforts to build artificial islands and military outposts as part of its efforts to assert greater control over the sea, a major commercial waterway. In the weeks since Mr. Trump’s election, Beijing has increased pressure on the United States, placing weapons on disputed islands and seizing an underwater United States Navy drone from international waters. Chinese officials appear to be emboldened by Mr. Trump’s pledge to focus on domestic issues and his ambivalence toward the One China principle, an understanding between the United States and China that has underpinned relations for decades. “The mission is to signal to neighbors that Beijing will set the security table in East Asian waters, and that not even President Donald Trump can reverse that trend,” Patrick M. Cronin, a senior director at the Center for a New American Security, a Washington think tank, said in an email. Chinese officials played down the significance of the Liaoning’s journey, saying the ships were taking part in annual training exercises. “The Liaoning aircraft carrier is entitled to the freedom of navigation and overflight under international law,” Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said at a news conference on Monday. “We hope that all parties will respect this. ” Officials in Taiwan and Japan said that the warships were spotted patrolling their coasts over the past several days. Taiwanese officials said the Liaoning came within 90 nautical miles of the southern tip of the island before entering the South China Sea. Japanese officials said the ships were seen near the shores of Okinawa, in the Pacific Ocean. Many people in China cheered the deployment of the Liaoning, a discarded vessel bought from Ukraine in 1998 and refurbished by the Chinese Navy. While the Liaoning lacks the capabilities of its American counterparts, it is a symbol of national pride for the government, which is in the midst of an effort to vastly upgrade its military capacity to meet its ambition of projecting strength far from Beijing. Officials have announced plans for a second aircraft carrier and other   weapons. Some commentators in China seized the moment to call on officials to send the Liaoning closer to American shores. “Aircraft carriers are strategic tools which should be used to show China’s strength to the world and shape the outside world’s attitude toward China,” an editorial in Global Times, a   newspaper that often adopts a nationalistic tone, said on Sunday. “As China’s only aircraft carrier fleet now, it should have the ability and courage to sail further. ” The Department of Defense declined to directly address China’s movements in the South China Sea. “We continue to observe a range of ongoing Chinese military activity in the region,” Cmdr. Gary Ross, a spokesman for the Pentagon, said in a statement on Tuesday. “The United States recognizes the rights, freedoms and lawful uses of the sea and airspace guaranteed to all countries in accordance with international law. ” In Taiwan, officials called for caution. Many residents worry that China is seeking to punish Taiwan for Mr. Trump’s actions. He surprised officials in Beijing when he took a call from President Tsai   of Taiwan, breaking from decades of diplomatic practice. More recently, he suggested he might abandon the One China principle, prompting sharp rebukes from Beijing. In a speech on Tuesday, Taiwan’s defense minister, Feng   spoke about the dangers facing the island and urged more training for Taiwanese soldiers. “The threat of our enemies is growing day by day,” he said, according to Reuters. As China looks to expand its power in the South China Sea, some experts argue that it risks antagonizing nearby countries, potentially pushing them to form stronger alliances with the United States. “As China’s military power grows, the fear is that so, too, will its appetite for regional hegemony,” said Mr. Cronin of the Center for a New American Security. “Thus China’s coercion will impose yet new costs on Beijing. ” Still, others note China’s ability to win allies in the region through its economic might, and they point to the shifting allegiances of countries like the Philippines, an American ally that has warmed up to Beijing in recent months. Xu Guangyu, a retired major general in the People’s Liberation Army, said China’s decision to deploy aircraft carriers in faraway waters and to expand its military were natural developments for a country of China’s stature. “People in other countries should rest assured that China will not interfere in other country’s affairs like the U. S.,” he said.