PHILADELPHIA  —    Nearly three years ago, the N. F. L. and lawyers for thousands of retired football players agreed on a deal to compensate all former players who had neurological diseases linked to repeated hits to the head, helping the league to move on from one of the most contentious issues facing the nation’s most popular sport. But it took an appellate court ruling Monday to affirm the deal, which potentially provides retirees up to $5 million each, and all but closed the door on future challenges by players in the matter. As much as the debate continues in the court of public opinion on whether football is safe and whether the league has done enough to make it so, the court of law has decided that the league can be on the hook for damages only in a limited way. In a   ruling, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit here unambiguously upheld a district court’s approval of the deal, over the objections of some players who had argued that the terms were too restrictive and would not take care of many players who developed serious neurological problems over time. The appellate judges, sitting in Philadelphia, acknowledged the objectors’ points but turned them aside because they found that the settlement benefited the greater good among players. “They risk making the perfect the enemy of the good,” the court said of the players who objected that the settlement was too restrictive. “This settlement will provide nearly $1 billion in value to the class of retired players. It is a testament to the players, researchers and advocates who have worked to expose the true human costs of a sport so many love. Though not perfect, it is fair. ” The appellants can still ask a larger panel of judges at the Third Circuit to hear their appeal, or they can solicit the Supreme Court. But both challenges appear to be long shots because the appeals court ruled overwhelmingly to affirm, legal experts say. In almost every major question before the appeals court, the   panel sided with Judge Anita B. Brody of United States District Court, who has overseen the settlement since the hundreds of individual cases against the N. F. L. were consolidated in Philadelphia more than three years ago. The appeals court judges interpreted their role as having not been to determine if the settlement was good or bad, but if it was “fair” and “reasonable” under the conditions of the deal. In that regard, they left little doubt that Judge Brody had acted within her bounds. “They didn’t say this was a good settlement, they said it was a reasonable settlement that was reached,” said Michael Kaplen, a plaintiffs’ lawyer who specializes in cases of head trauma, and a frequent critic of the settlement. “They don’t care that large numbers of players weren’t compensated, only that this was the best deal that their lawyers could make. ” In backing Judge Brody’s decision to approve the settlement, the appeals court judges noted that only a small number of players had objected or opted out. More than 98 percent of retired players approved the deal, which was originally struck in 2013, revised in 2014 to remove the cap on how much the N. F. L. might have to pay players over the   life of the settlement, and revised again in 2015. Steven Molo, lead counsel for the players who appealed, said, “We are disappointed in the court’s decision,” and “we are reviewing the opinion and considering our options. ” Mr. Molo and the handful of players who did appeal the decision argued, among other things, that players who were found to have chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C. T. E. a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated head trauma, should be covered through the life of the deal, not just if they were found to have the condition before the settlement was approved in 2015, as the deal currently states. The appeals court, though, said that Judge Brody’s ruling on C. T. E. and the treatment of the symptoms of the disease was “reasonable. ” The appeals court also said that the admission last month by a   N. F. L. executive of a link between C. T. E. and   head trauma was “not a ground for reversal of the settlement’s approval. ” The emphatic decision by the appeals court on Monday moved the N. F. L. a step closer to ending one of its most contentious, embarrassing and expensive legal challenges. The spectacle of thousands of former players suing the league for lying to them, and the prospect that some players might have testified in court about the harm they suffered, led the league to promise to pay potentially hundreds of millions of dollars to former players in dire straits. In the deal, the N. F. L. admitted no fault and, critically, insisted that all retired players be included in the settlement, not only the 5, 000 or so who originally sued the league. This has largely removed the threat of a string of endless challenges in the future. In the settlement, players can receive cash payments of up to $5 million if they find out they have Alzheimer’s, A. L. S. Parkinson’s or severe dementia, or were found to have C. T. E. before the settlement was approved last year. Though the ceiling is $5 million, the amount players are paid is based on their age and number of years in the league, and therefore is likely to be far less. The number of players with these conditions may end up being a minority of the pool of retired players. All of them, though, can receive medical tests, paid for by the league, to monitor their conditions. The lawyers for the retired players, who have asked the league to pay $112 million for their legal fees, applauded the appeals court ruling and urged the objectors not to pursue their case further. (Judge Brody will rule on those fees.) “We are pleased with the Third Circuit’s decision to completely uphold the District Court’s approval of the settlement,” Christopher Seeger,   counsel for the retired N. F. L. players, said. “This extraordinary settlement’s implementation has been delayed enough by this small group of objectors, whose arguments have been exhaustively examined and overruled by both the District Court and Third Circuit. ” Seeger said that more than 8, 000 retired players have tried to register for benefits, even though the claims process has not opened yet. Only the 150 or so players who opted out of the settlement can continue to sue the league in the matter. Winning individual cases against the N. F. L. may be difficult, though. The league and plaintiffs’ lawyers have noted that the science surrounding C. T. E. is still in its infancy and therefore should not be treated with the same certainly as Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease and other conditions covered in the settlement. The N. F. L. and the plaintiffs’ lawyers argued that the conditions associated with C. T. E. like memory loss, are covered under the deal. C. T. E. is diagnosed only posthumously. Some of the players who appealed the settlement said the deal should leave open the possibility that a test will be developed to diagnose the disease in the living. The N. F. L. and lawyers for the retired players added a provision that would allow the players and the league in several years to review the way that C. T. E. is treated in the settlement. Mr. Kaplen, the critic of the deal, said he did not expect the league to willingly broaden the boundaries of who would be eligible for an award. “It’s foolhardy,” he said. “Do you think the N. F. L. is going to open their wallet in 10 years? Experience tells you it’s not going to happen. ” Players who opted out of the settlement and sue the league face other hurdles, among them the issue of whether their case is governed by the collective bargaining agreement between the league and the players, an issue that the district court judge in the case did not rule on.