In this era of #OscarsSoWhite, the Tonys are looking pretty good. On Tuesday morning, this year’s Tony Award nominees are to be announced, and it seems clear, based on the diversity of the Broadway season and the acclaim for its performers, that the slate will be far more diverse than the list of Oscar nominees put forward this year by the movie industry. But what does that mean? Is Broadway fundamentally more diverse, in casting, employment and programming, than Hollywood? Or did the theater industry just get lucky that Broadway was having its most diverse season ever while Hollywood was having a meltdown? The answers are up for debate, but two things are obvious: The season now ending reflects a series of coinciding bets, by multiple producers unaffiliated with one another, that a diverse array of stories and performers can succeed artistically or commercially, and the system of choosing Tony nominees is far different from the Oscars’ in ways that seem to affect the mix of honorees. The   Broadway season, which ends next month and features 36 new plays and musicals, has been dominated by a single smash hit, “Hamilton,” in which diversity is a central theme, intended to suggest connections between today’s America, politically and demographically, with that of the revolutionary era. The show, written by   Miranda, whose parents were born in Puerto Rico, uses Hispanic and black actors to portray the founding fathers and, pointedly, a white actor to portray the oppressive King George III. “Our cast looks like America looks now,” Mr. Miranda said last summer. “That’s certainly intentional. ” The season has also featured a   revival of “The Color Purple,” adapted from the Pulitzer   novel about black women in    Georgia “Shuffle Along, or the Making of the Musical Sensation of 1921 and All That Followed,” a new exploration of a     jazz musical “Eclipsed,” about captive women in Liberia “On Your Feet! ,” about the rise of the   pop stars Gloria and Emilio Estefan “Spring Awakening,” a revival using deaf actors as well as an actress in a wheelchair “Allegiance,” about the internment of   in the United States during World War II and “Amazing Grace,” about a British slave   . Black actors won major dramatic roles previously played by white performers in revivals of three classic American plays: “The Gin Game” (James Earl Jones and Cicely Tyson) “Hughie” (Forest Whitaker) and “The Crucible” (Sophie Okonedo). “A lot of Broadway producers are realizing that the more diverse your show is, the more diverse your audience is going to be  —   at least that’s the hope,” said Pun Bandhu, a spokesman for the Asian American Performers Action Coalition. “And ‘Hamilton’ has proven that audiences are willing to pay top dollar for a show driven by minorities, and that’s fantastic. ” But Mr. Bandhu said Broadway still tended to underrepresent Hispanic and Asian performers. And, he said, economic concerns limit progress. “Broadway, like Hollywood, is a commercial endeavor, and it’s very   and when you have so few actors of color who are stars, you’re not going to get a particularly diverse season,” he said. Theater industry leaders have been watching the controversy in the film industry with a mixture of relief and trepidation  —   proud about the theater season now ending but also aware that next season is not shaping up to be anywhere near as diverse, and that while diverse casting has become increasingly common, the theater business has changed much less offstage. And some of the shows have struggled to find audiences  —   “Eclipsed,” in particular, has been hurting at the box office, despite positive reviews, presumably because of its difficult subject matter. “There was an understandable moment of ‘Good on us,’ and certainly this is the kind of season that we want to continue to support and learn from, but I don’t think we can pat ourselves on the back and say our work here is done,” said Jordan Roth, the president of Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns five of the 40 Broadway houses. “We still have a lot of work to do in terms of the diversity of our creative teams, and I’d like to see more diversity among our producing community. ” The members of Broadway’s lone   producing team, Stephen C. Byrd and Alia   (“Eclipsed”) said they see progress and challenges. Mr. Byrd said that the industry is dominated by “a very small group of people who are very circumspect and wary of newcomers. ” He added that he believes the industry is more open than Hollywood, where, he said, “you can die of hope. ” Ms.   said that the industry has been working for some time to diversify its ranks, but added, “We hope in the long run we’re not the only black producers on Broadway. There’s room for other perspectives. ” Andrew Shade, the founder and editorial director of BroadwayBlack. com, an online community celebrating the work of black theater artists, noted that, particularly among creative teams, diversity has been hard to come by. “It almost doesn’t register that one could be a black lighting designer in the theater world, and I still get surprised when I see a black woman doing wig fittings,” he said. “People of color have not seen themselves succeed in those areas nearly as often. ” Theater unions have become increasingly vocal about diversity. Just this month, the Stage Directors and Choreographers Society released a statement declaring, “We believe that, despite good intentions, there are biases in place that sometimes inhibit the hiring of qualified directors and choreographers from underrepresented groups. ” And Actors’ Equity has begun a series of conversations with its nonwhite members about diversity. “We’re trying to expand our listening to actors and stage managers who are underemployed and disenfranchised to figure out what we can do,” said the union’s executive director, Mary McColl. This year’s slate of Tony nominees is expected to reflect not only the diversity of the season but also the priorities of the nominators, who differ significantly from those who nominate actors for Oscars. In Hollywood, more than 1, 000 actors choose Oscar acting nominees on Broadway, Tony nominees (in all categories) are chosen by an elite panel of fewer than 50 theater professionals, many of them drawn from the nonprofit arts and academic worlds to avoid financial conflicts of interest with the   productions. (The pool of voters, who in June will pick winners from among the nominees, includes 846 people, many with financial interests in the awards process.) The Tony nominators, who also include performers, writers, directors and designers, do not discuss their options before voting, and they cast their ballots in secret. (They will meet Monday to make their choices.) But many work in organizations where diversity is a topic of conversation, and the nominators are keenly aware of how a lack of nominee diversity affected the film industry. Next season on Broadway is unlikely to be as diverse as this one. Thus far the only show scheduled with a predominantly nonwhite cast is a   return appearance of “Motown. ” (Nonwhite actors have also won leading roles in a few of next season’s   shows, including “Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812” and “The SpongeBob Musical. ”) “Broadway is having a good year, but we’ve got to look at more than one year to really talk about, ‘Has change happened? ’” said Leslie Odom Jr. who plays Aaron Burr in “Hamilton. ” “I don’t think there are five or six musicals behind ‘Hamilton’ that look like this show, or that need this many actors of color,” he said. “The kids being inspired now  —   they’re going to start writing now, and we’ll see their work in six or seven years. ”