Candles that had not been properly extinguished after an Easter service probably caused the fire that swept through the historic  Serbian Orthodox Cathedral of St. Sava in Manhattan on Sunday, officials from the New York Fire Department said on Tuesday. “There’s no reason at this point to label it suspicious,” said Francis X. Gribbon, a Fire Department spokesman, “and what the fire marshals are looking at is the use of candles in the rear of the church that may not have been completely extinguished. ” Mr. Gribbon said it was likely that a caretaker thought he had extinguished several hundred candles after a luncheon that followed a celebration attended by some 700 congregants. The caretaker told fire marshals that he stowed the candles in a cardboard box under a piece of wooden furniture in a rear corner of the    church, on 25th Street between Broadway and Avenue of the Americas in the Flatiron district. The future of the building, a New York City landmark, is uncertain depending on how much the fire damaged the   stone structure. For decades, the church has been the spiritual pillar of the Serbian community in the region. As part of the ceremony on Sunday, several hundred candles were lit and placed in a long metal tray containing sand to safely hold them. After the luncheon ended around 3 p. m. the caretaker thought he had put out the burning candles in the sand. Fire Department officials now believe one or more candles may not have been fully extinguished, and may have started a fire that gutted the church’s old wooden interior after the church had closed, Mr. Gribbon said. Even the crowds at the flea market in the parking lot next to the church did not report any signs of fire, he said. When the fire became evident, around 7 p. m. firefighters entered the church to find it fully engulfed in flames, Mr. Gribbon said. The caretaker also entered through another door, and the incoming oxygen fed the already mounting blaze. Mr. Gribbon said portions of the interior  —   most notably the choir loft  —   had collapsed, another indication that the fire had been burning for a while. “You don’t get a fire like that in 10 minutes,” he said. The caretaker was ushered out. Finding no one else inside, officials ordered the firefighters out, fearing other areas would collapse, Mr. Gribbon said. Buildings Department officials said that the church was in no immediate danger of collapsing, but that inspectors were still monitoring the structure. Church officials did not return calls on Tuesday. But many churchgoers had questions as to whether the damage was severe enough to prohibit rebuilding the church with its original structure, Bob Stopanjac, founder of the Serbian Association of New York, said. Mr. Stopanjac said he doubted the fire was caused by the candles. He said candles had been part of the church’s celebrations for decades with no fires. He said some Serbs in the community were concerned about news media reports that said St. Sava was among a group of four Christian Orthodox churches that caught fire on Sunday. “I have no answers,” Mr. Stopanjac said.