BAGHDAD  —   In a violent escalation of Iraq’s political crisis on Friday, protesters breached Baghdad’s Green Zone, the secure hub of government, storming the prime minister’s office as security forces fired tear gas at demonstrators and live ammunition in the air. The protesters withdrew within a couple of hours, but dozens of people were injured, according to officials. And Baghdad Operations Command, which is in charge of security in the capital, imposed a curfew for several hours, and closed all entrances to the city. It was the second time in three weeks that protesters managed to breach the blast walls and razor wire of the Green Zone, a fortified area of government buildings and embassies that was named by the American military and that for the Iraqi public has long been a symbol of corruption, occupation and dysfunction. The crisis on Friday was a further demonstration of the rising anger among Iraqis toward a leadership class that is widely reviled, and presented a new challenge to the government of Prime Minister Haider   at a time when Baghdad has faced a surge in attacks from the Islamic State, which have killed an estimated 200 people in less than 10 days. For the Obama administration, the political upheaval in Baghdad and the string of deadly attacks by the Islamic State in the capital come as it continues to boast of progress in the war against the terrorist group elsewhere in the country. With a combination of airstrikes by the   coalition and Iraqi ground forces, the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, was pushed from the western city of Rutba this week, which the authorities say will allow the main highway between Baghdad and the Jordanian capital, Amman, to be reopened. But as the attacks in Baghdad and the protests have demonstrated, gains against ISIS on the battlefield have done little to improve the country’s stability. The scenes of chaos Friday evening in central Baghdad, even though they were short in duration, potentially represented a volatile new phase of a protest movement that began last summer and had, until Friday, been relatively peaceful. Security forces had often stood aside, even offering supportive messages to demonstrators, saying that they, too, wanted to see an end to corruption. Protesters sometimes gave policemen and soldiers flowers. When protesters entered the Green Zone three weeks ago, security forces largely stood by, allowing them passage, lending the episode a sense that it was choreographed and perhaps tacitly approved by the government. This theory was widely accepted, given that the protesters have not sought to bring down Mr. Abadi, but rather to support him in a push to root out corruption, streamline government and end sectarian quotas for appointments that has faced resistance from other political blocs. But this time, security forces put up resistance when a breakaway group of several hundred protesters pushed into the Green Zone. Videos on social media showed protesters ducking and running into the Green Zone to the sound of automatic gunfire. In one video that circulated on Facebook, the man holding the camera said, “There will be no surrender from this great popular revolution. ” Others were chanting, “We sacrifice our blood and souls for Iraq!” and, “No, no to corruption!” Many of the protesters were loyalists of the Shiite cleric Moktada   whose militia once fought the American military and who has sought to harness the anger of the streets to put himself, once again, at the center of Iraqi politics. A large number came from Sadr City, the large Shiite district that was struck by two devastating Islamic State suicide bombings recently, killing nearly 100 people. Mr. Sadr has cast himself as an ally of Mr. Abadi, also a Shiite, and a supporter of the prime minister’s attempts to reform government. But in the weeks since protesters ransacked Parliament, the government has been largely paralyzed, unable to meet and vote on a slate of new ministers that Mr. Abadi has put forward. Now that his followers have stormed the Green Zone again, and entered Mr. Abadi’s office building, it is hard to see Mr. Sadr as ally to the prime minister. In a statement released Friday evening, Mr. Sadr, in typical fiery speech, said he would intensify the pressure on the government. He equated the crackdown by security forces on the protesters on Friday to the terrorist attacks by the Islamic State, and said the current Iraqi government is no different from those of Saddam Hussein and Col. Muammar   of Libya. Addressing his followers, he said: “You heroic people, be patient. Your peaceful revolution is inevitable and will be victorious and will put an end to sectarianism, quotas, corruption and terrorism. ”