An outbreak of a   illness that has been linked to foods packaged by a processing plant in Washington State has prompted a   voluntary recall of frozen fruits and vegetables marketed under 42 brand names. The scale of the recall reflects the severity of the outbreak of the illness, listeria, and of concerns about how the contaminated food might have “trickled down” into other products, said Brittany Behm, a spokeswoman for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The processing plant, CRF Frozen Foods in Pasco, Wash. has voluntarily recalled more than 350 frozen foods  —   including carrots, onions, peaches and strawberries  —   that were sold in all 50 states and Canada. The recall began on April 23, with 11 frozen vegetables, but was significantly expanded on May 2. Eight people sickened with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes have been confirmed since 2013  —   six in California and one each in Maryland and Washington, Ms. Behm said. All of the cases, involving patients 56 to 86 years old, resulted in hospitalizations. The two people from Maryland and Washington died, but the authorities did not directly attribute their deaths to listeria because they may have already had weakened immune systems or other illnesses, Ms. Behm said. Listeria primarily affects newborns, older adults, pregnant women and adults with weakened immune systems. Symptoms can include a headache, stiff neck, confusion, fever and muscle aches. Some of the affected products were sold under brand names such as Earth’s Pride, Panda Express, Signature Kitchens and Trader Joe’s, CRF said. The number of illnesses may have been suppressed because the foods were cooked first, killing the bacteria. The first diagnosis came in September 2013 and the most recent was in March. The C. D. C. said epidemiologic and laboratory evidence pointed to CRF as one “likely source” of the outbreak. Investigators were trying to determine if food sources used to make the products at the plant could explain some of the illnesses. It was not clear how many packages were affected by the recall. A spokesman for the company, Gene Grabowski, did not respond to a phone call on Friday. He told The Associated Press that the CRF plant closed two weeks ago and that the company was trying to pinpoint the source of the contamination. The website Food Safety News reported that Food and Drug Administration inspectors visited the plant March   and found chipped and cracked pieces of plastic on parts of equipment that came into contact with onions, among other violations. “The materials and workmanship of equipment and utensils does not allow proper cleaning and maintenance,” the inspection report said. The expanded recall included all of the frozen products manufactured or processed at CRF’s plant since May 1, 2014, the company said. All of the affected products have “best by” or “sell by” dates between April 26, 2016, and April 26, 2018. Federal officials are concerned that consumers will not look closely at their frozen foods to see if they are on the recall list because those products do not expire as quickly as other goods, Ms. Behm said.