NBC is looking to place its new star Megyn Kelly in the morning hours. Ms. Kelly, who announced this month that she was leaving Fox News for NBC, will start at the network in May, and plans are beginning to take shape for her new show, two people briefed on the discussions said Friday. Ms. Kelly is being considered for a time slot at 9 or 10 a. m. for a show that is expected to begin in the fall. If she moves to 10 a. m. the popular fourth hour of “Today,” hosted by Kathie Lee Gifford and Hoda Kotb, will move to 9 a. m. One thing that is known for sure: The current iteration of the third hour of “Today,” hosted by Tamron Hall and Al Roker, will be a thing of the past once Ms. Kelly’s show begins. Ms. Kelly’s apparent move to the morning, which Variety reported earlier, removes her from the tricky minefield of syndicated daytime TV. Other TV news hosts, including Jane Pauley, Meredith Vieira and Katie Couric, have tried their hand at the format and failed. That was one of the reasons that NBC initially planned to make Ms. Kelly’s show a straight news show because other anchors could not make it work, the network saw no reason to try that strategy again. But in recent weeks, NBC executives have had more of an open mind over what direction her show should take: There have been discussions about whether it should be softer in focus than what was originally discussed, one person briefed on the plans said. They also have not decided whether Ms. Kelly’s show will be branded as part of the “Today” show. If Ms. Kelly locked up the 9 a. m. hour, it would also set up an intriguing battle royal that would pit her against another longtime morning host, ABC’s Kelly Ripa. The 9 a. m. hour for “Today” has long been a tricky proposition for NBC: Facing formidable competition against Ms. Ripa’s “Live With Kelly,” the network has tried a number of solutions, including bringing in Billy Bush last year. Shortly after Mr. Bush was brought in to host, he was let go after the infamous “Access Hollywood” recording of him and Donald J. Trump was released in October. Mr. Roker will continue to work on the early parts of “Today. ” And Ms. Hall, who is in contract negotiations with the network, will continue to host her MSNBC show and is also expected to make appearances on “Today. ” There are no concrete plans yet for the Sunday night newsmagazine show that NBC plans to have Ms. Kelly host, the people said. Fox News has not missed a beat since Ms. Kelly left her 9 p. m. time slot. Tucker Carlson, who replaced Ms. Kelly this month, has seen big ratings gains in the busy news weeks since his debut.