EAST RUTHERFORD, N. J.  —   Lionel Messi had the collar of his shirt pulled up to his nose. With his eyes peeking out just over the fabric, he watched a nightmare unfold. Argentina and Chile had played 120 minutes of ruthless, scoreless soccer on Sunday night at MetLife Stadium. Penalty kicks would be needed to decide the winner of the 45th Copa América. Up stepped Messi, widely regarded as the best player in the world, to take the first shot for Argentina, and he missed, sending the ball sailing over the crossbar and into the crowd. Moments later, he watched as Francisco Silva of Chile buried a shot inside the left post to give his team a   shootout win. All of the Argentine players hung their heads near the center circle as the Chileans erupted in celebration. But Messi took a slow, solitary walk across the grass and took a seat on the far end of his team’s bench. He stared at the grass as the Chilean players bobbed up and down in celebration. When he got up again, there were tears in his eyes. The emotions boiled over, and they carried to the locker room. When Messi, 29,   he suggested, shockingly, that his national team career was over. “In the locker room, I thought that the national team was finished for me, that it’s not for me,” Messi said. “It’s what I feel right now. It’s a great sadness that it happened to me, that I missed penalty kick that was very important. It’s for the good of everybody. It’s not enough to just get to the final and not win. ” The meeting of Argentina and Chile in the 45th Copa América final was eagerly awaited as an alluring confrontation of two of the finest soccer teams in the world. Yet the game that materialized had all the charm and beauty of a street brawl. Faces puckered in pain and anger. Studded cleats whipped dangerously in the air, aimed at flesh. Bodies collided with other bodies, crumpling and splaying onto the grass. Those in the crowd of 82, 026  —   the largest soccer crowd in New Jersey history  —   who sought a showcase of sophisticated play were instead treated to a stream of crunching tackles, theatrical quarrels, disciplinary cards (eight yellows, two reds). The Chileans, who defeated the Argentines in the same competition last year on Chile’s home soil, will not mind the soreness. Argentina, which has not won a major tournament since 1993, will have a dose of existential despair to accompany the physical pain. Before the tournament, memories of the team’s most recent heartbreaks weighed heavily on Messi’s mind: the Copa América in 2007, in which the Argentines lost a second straight final to their archrival, Brazil the World Cup final in 2014, in which they succumbed to Germany in overtime the Copa América final in 2015, in which they fell to Chile in a penalty shootout. Add 2016, when Chile outlasted them in an unending rumble. “It’s incredible, the fact that we can’t win it,” Messi said. “It’s happened to us again, and by penalty kicks. It’s our third consecutive final. We tried, and it wasn’t for us. ” Messi has played 113 times for Argentina. Last week, with his 55th goal, he became his country’s leading scorer. He has won every award and honor imaginable as an individual and with his club team, Barcelona. But if he does not play another international soccer game, his glittering résumé will have one glaring hole: a championship with Argentina. The game on Sunday had a violent start, establishing a fierce tone, and amid the constellation of superstars on both teams, the referee, Héber Lopes, somehow emerged as the center of attention. The only credible chance of the first half came in the 22nd minute, when Gonzalo Higuaín chipped his shot wide after finding himself one on one with goalkeeper Claudio Bravo. Otherwise, it was a parade of fouls and cards. Marcelo Díaz of Chile picked up a yellow card in the 16th minute for kicking Messi near his midsection. Twelve minutes later, Messi and Díaz collided after Messi had prodded the ball into space on another menacing move, and Lopes ran over holding a second yellow card for Díaz, reducing Chile to 10 men. Two more yellow cards materialized in the 37th minute, after a momentary kerfuffle between Javier Mascherano of Argentina and Arturo Vidal of Chile. Three minutes later, Messi picked up a yellow card for diving. In the 43rd minute, Marcos Rojo of Argentina was issued a straight red card after a slide tackle on Vidal  —   even though the challenge looked more poorly timed than malicious. On good days, Chile is known for its     defense  —   a system that can make opposing players feel like fish struggling to swim upstream. Argentina at its best can embroider long stretches of passing with the nonchalance of a knitting circle. But reduced to 10 men apiece, the teams resorted to more rudimentary maneuvers. The Argentines had scored 18 goals in their previous five games, but their strategy on Sunday seemed reduced to having Messi try to dribble through the Chilean defense himself. Chile controlled possession, 54 percent to 46, but was severely outshot,  . Surrounding the referee, trying to sway him to issue cards to opponents, became a part of the tactical framework of the game. The coaches, Gerardo Martino of Argentina and Juan Antonio Pizzi of Chile, were separated on the sideline at one point. Scoring chances emerged as the game wore on, even as players’ legs grew wobbly, like boxers swaying, seeking a decisive blow, in a   bout. The two goalkeepers traded athletic saves in a span of minutes in overtime. Everyone in the stadium  —   the fans, the players, the referee  —   seemed exhausted when the game went to penalty kicks. Vidal stepped up first, and his shot was saved by keeper Sergio Romero of Argentina. Then came Messi, who whacked his attempt several yards over the bar. He spent parts of the shootout thereafter on his knees, staring at the ground. Argentina’s fourth shooter, Lucas Biglia, missed, too, setting up Chile’s decisive kick. Messi watched in despair. “There’s not much analysis to go over,” Martino said. “We really had high hopes, and now we’re leaving  . ” The sellout crowd  —   thick with fans of Argentina dressed in light blue and white, speckled throughout with Chile supporters in red  —   represented one last mass spectacle to cap a month of entertaining games. In recent days, tournament organizers hailed the success of the event, specially scheduled for the 100th anniversary of the tournament and held for the first time outside South America. For the United States, it was a chance to reiterate its capacity to host a future World Cup. The competition drew an average of 46, 119 people per game, more than any other Copa tournament. Sunil Gulati, the president of U. S. Soccer, last week called those figures “World Cup numbers, for an event organized in seven months with 16 teams. ” (The last three World Cups drew averages of 53, 592, 49, 499 and 52, 609 people per game.) The final on Sunday played out under a shadow of scandal, though, with the president of the Argentine Football Association, Luis Segura, and several top soccer officials having been criminally charged in a corruption case in Argentina only three days before the final game. Victor Montagliani, the new president of Concacaf, an organizer of the tournament, said on Sunday that it was something of a miracle that the Copa América had been successfully carried out at all. The tournament figured prominently in the world soccer corruption case announced by the United States Justice Department last year, requiring the associated contracts for media and marketing rights to be torn up. “It was a bit of a Rubik’s Cube to figure it out,” Montagliani said. “This tournament was dead. ” The tournament survived, but it was anguishing for Messi. On Thursday, after the Argentina team plane was delayed, he criticized the federation on his Instagram account, calling it a “disaster. ” He frustration only grew as the weekend went on, through a grueling game against Chile, until he apparently had enough and stepped away from the team altogether.