JERUSALEM  —   As Israeli and Turkish leaders announced the formal resumption of full diplomatic relations after a   fissure, the front page of the popular Hebrew newspaper Yediot Aharonot summed up the predicament for many Israelis: “Reconciliation or surrender. ” Critics of the deal asked why Israel agreed to pay about $20 million in compensation to the families of 10   activists who were killed during a 2010 raid by Israeli naval commandos after they met violent resistance aboard a Turkish passenger vessel as it tried to breach Israel’s blockade of the Gaza Strip. That episode set off the diplomatic crisis between the   regional allies, and paying compensation was a capitulation, the critics argued. Many Israelis also questioned what they called the “gifts to Hamas,” the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza. They were referring to the humanitarian aid that Turkey plans to deliver to the Palestinian coastal enclave under the deal, and the promise of new residential buildings, a   hospital and infrastructure projects. Such aid chafed Israeli sensibilities because the deal did not provide for the return of the remains of two Israeli soldiers being held by Hamas, or the release of two Israeli civilians who are believed to be held captive in Gaza. As Turkish officials hailed the deal as a diplomatic victory, rivals of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel from the left and right called him to task. Gideon Saar, a former minister from Mr. Netanyahu’s conservative Likud Party, described the compensation as “a national humiliation. ” Isaac Herzog, the leader of the   Zionist Union, called it “incomprehensible,” and criticized what he called the “indifference and disregard” shown toward the families of those missing in Gaza. At a lunchtime news conference in Rome, where the negotiations were concluded over the weekend, Mr. Netanyahu defended the deal, saying that it was “of strategic importance to Israel,” and that it helped ensure security and regional stability and could bolster the Israeli economy. “The world is in turmoil, the Middle East is in turmoil and my policy is to create centers of stability in this unstable and stormy region,” he said in remarks broadcast live on Israeli television. The deal, Mr. Netanyahu said, will protect Israeli commanders and soldiers from criminal and civil claims by the Turkish government and victims, and it will allow Israel to maintain its naval blockade of Hamas in Gaza despite a Turkish demand for it to be removed. Turkey agreed to deliver goods for Gaza through the Israeli port of Ashdod. In addition, he said, the deal provided an opening for lucrative projects like the marketing of Israel’s natural gas reserves to Turkey, and via Turkey to Europe. Mr. Netanyahu said that he could “withstand this criticism” of those who complained of humiliation and the abandonment of those missing in Gaza, adding, “I understand the suffering of the families. ” In Ankara, the Turkish prime minister, Binali Yildirim, said, “Normalization covers a variety of areas, but economic relations and regional cooperation will take place first. ” He said that a ship carrying 10, 000 tons of humanitarian aid bound for Gaza would leave for Ashdod on Friday. Secretary of State John Kerry, who met with Mr. Netanyahu in Rome on Sunday and Monday, said that Washington had encouraged the reconciliation between Israel and Turkey, two important allies of the United States. “This is a step we wanted to see happen,” Mr. Kerry said. The deal comes as Israel and Turkey face tough challenges stemming from the meltdown of Syria and other states in the region. “Renormalization of the relationship is more about security than energy,” said Brenda Shaffer, a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council research institute’s Global Energy Center in Washington. Ben Caspit, an Israeli political columnist at the Maariv newspaper, wrote, “In the end, an agreement was reached with Turkey because it had to be reached. ” Experts said they did not anticipate a return to the intimate alliance of past decades, when the navies of Israel, Turkey and the United States carried out joint exercises in the Mediterranean, and Israeli fighter jets trained in Turkish airspace. In Gaza, there was a sense that the deal offered some hope but fell short of what Hamas wanted. “They might not have lifted the blockade on Gaza, but at least they will ease restrictions,” said Ahmed Yousef, an adviser to the Hamas leader Ismail Haniya. For many Israelis, who have fond memories of vacations at Turkey’s coastal resorts, which attracted up to half a million Israeli tourists a year before the diplomatic rift, the fallout from the diplomatic deal was more emotional. Tzur Goldin, the twin brother of Second Lt. Hadar Goldin, who was killed in an ambush during the 2014 war in Gaza and whose remains have not been returned, said that Mr. Netanyahu had promised the family that any negotiations concerning Gaza would include the return of the remains of the two soldiers. The family of the second soldier killed in a different battle during the war in Gaza, Staff Sgt. Oron Shaul, set up a protest tent outside Mr. Netanyahu’s official residence in Jerusalem. “Two years is enough time to show progress,” said Racheli Gazit, a cousin of Sergeant Shaul, as she handed out stickers bearing the soldier’s picture and got   to sign a petition. Of the deal, she said, “This is going backward. ”