Two idiots need dates they get them. That’s about all you need to know about the aggressively stupid “Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates,” a   comedy about a pair of imbeciles who are best understood as representations of the enduring,   contempt that some moviemakers have always had for their audiences. Witless, soulless, often amateurish and filled with product placements (nice going, Coors) the movie has nothing going for it other than some wasted talent. I hope that the most egregiously squandered  —   the   Aubrey Plaza and Anna Kendrick, as well as the character actors Stephen Root and Sam Richardson  —   were well paid. Somebody needs to come out of this mess ahead. The story is immaterial, and boilerplate. Adam Devine plays Mike Zac Efron plays his brother, Dave. Their parents  —   knowing that their sons tend to ruin family events with their unfunny, often dangerous   (in one flashback, they send their grandfather to the grave)  —   insist that they bring dates to their sister’s nuptials. The brothers put an ad on Craigslist, which is where Ms. Plaza and Ms. Kendrick come in. Anonymously directed by Jake Szymanski, what follows isn’t really a story, just a succession of thuddingly leaden, patchily strung together bits in service to the underlying theme: Mike and Dave’s fear of sexualized women. Oh, there’s also a racist joke pegged to the singer Seal. You could see “Mike and Dave” as the latest manifestation of white heterosexual male panic run amok. A throwaway line about heteronormativity (I’m sure I heard that right) suggests that someone behind the scenes would like viewers to believe that there’s a degree of   to all the desperation and yuks about booze, babes and bros. Perhaps there is whatever. But token reflexivity never got anyone off the hook. It certainly doesn’t obscure the more resonant if completely predictable truth that the movie evinces a profoundly troglodytic worldview toward women. And while that says a lot about Mike and Dave, it says even more about the industry that made this movie. “Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It’s bad for your brain. Running time: 1 hour 45 minutes.