PHNOM PENH, Cambodia  —   A prominent Cambodian political commentator who had recently helped found a new independent political party was gunned down at a gas station in central Phnom Penh on Sunday morning in what analysts called a major setback for democracy and freedom of expression in the country. The commentator, Kem Ley, 46, had stopped in for his morning coffee at the station’s convenience store when he was shot and killed. “The offender was arrested and is being interrogated,” said Gen. Kirth Chantharith, a spokesman for the Cambodian National Police. The general added that the man had identified himself as Chuob Samlab, an unlikely name that translates as “Meet Kill” in the Khmer language. The police said in a statement that the suspect, 38, was from a rural area along Cambodia’s western border and had migrated to Thailand to work on a plantation. A leaked video of his confession to the police that circulated on social media showed him with blood streaked across his face as he explained that he had bought a pistol in Thailand with the intention of killing Mr. Kem Ley because he was owed $3, 000. With its brazenness and   target, the killing seemed to hark back to an era of political violence in Cambodia that many had hoped was over. The leading Cambodian opposition figure, Sam Rainsy, called the killing an “assassination” and an “act of state terrorism” on Facebook. Public assassinations of opposition figures and union leaders occurred with chilling regularity throughout the 1990s and   but began to taper off about a decade ago as the country’s   authoritarian prime minister, Hun Sen, managed to defeat or buy off his rivals and consolidate much of the country’s political power. However, Mr. Hun Sen is now grappling with the most serious challenge to his authority in years. Fueled by the rise of a younger generation of voters who are more educated and better informed than their parents, as well as increasing frustration with widespread corruption and sclerotic government institutions, the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party nearly won the 2013 election. The prime minister and his Cambodian People’s Party have responded with a monthslong crackdown on protesters and dissenting voices, in which many government critics have been jailed or face lawsuits. The National Rescue Party has been paralyzed as its two top leaders have recently faced court cases that could put them in jail for years. Mr. Hun Sen condemned the killing in a statement on Facebook and called for greater security. Mr. Kem Ley was already a   commentator in 2014 when he announced that he was fed up with the country’s political scene, which he called stagnant and elitist. He founded a political action network that he hoped would develop new leaders and tackle issues important to farmers that go untouched by both major parties. Last year, his Khmer for Khmer network registered the Grassroots Democracy Party and announced that it would field candidates for local elections in 2017. In the days before his death, Mr. Kem Ley had spoken out about a recent report about the vast wealth accumulated by the family of Mr. Hun Sen, as well as use of the courts as a political tool against the opposition party. “He could simplify complicated ideas into the language of the people,” said Ou Virak, the head of Future Forum, a local think tank. “He was straightforward, often able to narrate stories to make his point interesting and to get the message across to ordinary Cambodians. ’’ Mr. Ou Virak said the killing would have a chilling effect on freedom of expression in Cambodia, making government critics fear for their safety as they had in the past. An angry and grieving crowd of hundreds gathered on Sunday at the gas station where Mr. Kem Ley was shot. Yang Sokhy, a   driver, had arrived with a packet of incense, hoping to be allowed to light a stick and pray over Mr. Kem Ley’s body. “I’m just a citizen who liked him, his fan, because he spoke the truth about what is happening in our society,” Mr. Yang Sokhy, 37, said. “In our country, it’s always like this. All people who dare to speak out meet this ending. ”