SPRINGFIELD, N. J.  —   For Jimmy Walker, Sunday was his fourth successive day atop the leaderboard at the P. G. A. Championship. He had played throughout with an unruffled calm, a countenance that belied his inner unease about the outcome of the tournament. Walker was a tenderfoot when it came to the crucible of the last hours of a major championship. He had missed the cut in his last two majors, never finished higher than tied for seventh at any major and was perhaps best known on the PGA Tour for his unusual hobby: astrophotography. Now, in Sunday’s final round, he was being chased by   golf heavyweights, like Jason Day, the world’s   player and the defending P. G. A. champ. Undaunted, Walker had kept his competitors at arm’s length with a   round at the venerable Baltusrol Golf Club, and as he walked to the final tee, he held a   lead. Then Day, in second place, eagled the   18th hole, and Walker suddenly had to par his final hole or face a playoff. Or worse, second place. Walker understood the situation completely. “Brutal,” he said. But Walker drove his tee shot in the fairway and then made the gutsy decision to go for the green. His second shot was slightly wayward, but after a delicate pitch and a nervy   Walker had proved his championship poise. With a steely round of 67, which left him 14 under par for the tournament, Walker became the fourth   major champion of the 2016 golf season. Walker said Day’s     dramatics had not surprised him. “I was hoping to relax  —   I could have used it  —   but I wouldn’t have expected any less from Jason,” he said. Of his choice to hit a fairway wood on the final hole instead of laying up short of the 18th green, Walker said he was only playing the percentages. “I bet 19 out of 20 times, you make five by going for that green,” Walker said. But with a major championship on the line? Walker shrugged and smiled. His second shot sent his ball into deep rough next to a bunker that he would have to cross with his next shot to hold the green. “Not a great lie played that a little safe,” he said of the pitch he flew high over the bunker and 35 feet beyond the hole. Walker’s first putt scooted three feet past the hole, setting up yet another nervy moment. “A little tester,” he said of the second putt. “Just buried it. Just awesome. ” Walker became the first    winner of the P. G. A. Championship since Phil Mickelson, who won at Baltusrol in 2005. Joining Walker as   major winners this year were the Masters champion Danny Willett Dustin Johnson, who won the United States Open and Henrik Stenson, the British Open champ. Daniel Summerhays finished third Sunday at 10 under. Three golfers were tied for fourth at nine under: Branden Grace, Hideki Matsuyama and Brooks Koepka. “I was trying to make a run at Jimmy all day,” said Day, who finished at 13 under after also shooting a   67. “I just couldn’t do it until the very end. ” Walker, 37, has not had an easy path to the highest echelon of golf. Though he first played on the PGA Tour in 2005, he was frequently sent back to the equivalent of the minor leagues and had to requalify for the tour three times. It was not until 2011 that he began to establish himself. Still, Walker, who played at Baylor, competed in 187 tour events before claiming his first victory at the end of 2013. He went on to win two of the next seven events. This year on the Tour has not been his best, with his highest finish a tie for fourth. Walker, who was at 11 under after the first three rounds, began his final round with nine consecutive pars. Each hole seemed to have a sameness to it. Walker was usually in the fairway, and his approaches left him manageable distances for birdie opportunities. If he did not capitalize on them, he also did not make any grievous mistakes. But the missed birdie putts might have been starting to grate on him. When he found himself in a greenside bunker at the 10th hole, Walker fidgeted over the shot for close to 20 seconds. Then he found a way to make a birdie without putting by holing a flipped sand wedge. That moved him to 12 under. With a new bounce in his step, Walker went to the next green and rolled in a   downhill birdie putt to extend his lead over Day to two strokes. Moments earlier, Day, whose driver was so erratic he had switched to a   off the tee, drained a   putt on No. 11 to close to a stroke back from Walker. But for the next several holes, Day’s approach shots to greens were increasingly wayward and left him with exceedingly long birdie putts that he could not convert. He did not seriously challenge Walker again until No. 18, where he rolled in a   putt for his eagle. A few minutes earlier, Walker had taken a   lead over Day, sinking an   birdie putt on No. 17. It proved to be a pivotal stroke gained. The golf on Sunday began at 7 a. m. under unfamiliar circumstances because tournament officials had made the unusual decision to continue the   third round on Sunday morning and begin the fourth at almost the same time. For several hours, it made for a confusing leaderboard, with many in the field playing their final round without knowing how the third round would end up. The wet conditions led P. G. A. officials to decide to play the tournament’s final 18 holes under the   rule, also known as “lift, clean and place. ” It was feared by some players that the rule would lead to unusually low scores, perhaps even a score of 62, which would have been a record for a major championship. But the scoring, while low, was not uncustomary for the event. The golfer with the field’s lowest total score did not think the rule had much effect on his play. He was more focused on what his victory signified. “For me, I feel like it was a matter of time,” Walker said. “It was a long time coming, and this was a long day. But I’ll take it. It all ended well. ”