RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Early in 1987, Kerry Lynch, a bright hope of the American ski team for an Olympic medal, boarded a plane for Germany. There, he met an American doctor who performed a transfusion that packed his blood with red blood cells, an elixir for endurance athletes. A few days later, at the 1987 world championships, he finished second in the Nordic combined, a grueling   event that featured   ski jumping and     skiing. It was the best performance ever by an American in that event. The plot came undone, Lynch confessed, and it turned out that Jim Page, director of the United States Nordic program, had given his blessing to the doping. The International Ski Federation booted Page for life. The United States Olympic Committee was far gentler. Page remained and became its managing director of sports performance. For much of the 1980s and 1990s, the United States had a pervasive doping problem in Olympic sports that was enabled by the U. S. O. C. Test results disappeared,   athletes ran and jumped and swam their way to medals, and complicit coaches prospered. Our Olympic leaders and corporate sponsors and many of us in the news media placed hands over eyes and blocked ears at talk of American doping. I page through this history not by way of offering a backdoor defense of Russia. Two exhaustive reports establish that the Russian government engaged in   doping, and that is a blot on world sport. More athletes now are speaking out on doping, and the timidity of the International Olympic Committee in punishing the Russians dishonors their efforts. But as we rage and stomp about Russia’s   doping, we might recall those decades when doping was a slice of American pie. Ours had no   labs creating Frankenstein drugs and athletes, nor did government officials play a role. But we had much malfeasance, from Lance Armstrong and his United States Postal Service team to Carl Lewis, who dominated several Olympics and was the greatest American track athlete of his time. In 2003, Lewis admitted that he had failed three tests for stimulants in 1988 and that Olympic executives had looked the other way. In fairness, Lewis tested positive for a small amount of stimulants, which, he said, came contained in a cold medication. Perhaps this is so. His statement, however, spoke to a culture of complicity. “There were hundreds of people getting off,” he said in 2003. “Everyone was treated the same. ” A few examples: Dr. Wade Exum, the U. S. O. C.’s antidoping director, claimed in a lawsuit filed early in the last decade that the committee’s lust for medals had helped it overcome moral good sense. His lawsuit was dismissed, but he gave documents to Sports Illustrated that showed that American Olympic officials had covered up more than 100 tests from 1988 to 2000. The Orange County Register revealed some years back that at least 34 American track and field athletes had tested positive before the Los Angeles Olympics in 1984 and had most likely gone on to compete and win medals. The next Summer Olympics was in Seoul in 1988. Pat Connelly, a prominent track coach, later testified in Congress that as many as 20 American female athletes had “probably” used anabolic steroids in preparation for those Games. Evelyn Ashford, a top American sprinter, testified that she knew of two female American gold medalists who had used steroids, although she declined to identify them. On and on it goes. It is striking how many of the best track performances from that time still stand as world records. Doping tolerance suffused our culture: American baseball rode the broad backs and   swings of the   in the 1990s with the knowledge of its leaders and team owners the N. F. L. per usual, was an   zone. I called up Max Cobb, president of U. S. Biathlon, who is a courageous crusader for clean sport. He looks back at that time with a grimace. “In the 1970s and the 1980s, it was the wild, wild West out there,” he said. Russia’s defenders might clap at this as hypocrisy exposed. Let’s pause before tumbling down that rabbit hole. I’m not inclined to shrug off conclusive evidence that Russia, with the helping hands of its state security service, has overseen systematic doping. Those athletes who wished to remain clean found that their access to the best coaches and to the most competitive meets had disappeared. Late last year, the recently defrocked chief of Russia’s antidoping agency wrote an email to a British reporter, saying he wanted to write a   book about sports doping in Russia and the country’s secret laboratory. Two months later, this    man went out to do some   skiing and died. “It was,” the Russian minister of sport noted, “a very unexpected death. ” About the same time, another general director of the antidoping agency also died unexpectedly.   book deals, not to mention knowledge of the inner workings of Russian sports, appear to be bad for your health. Thomas Bach, the pliable chief of the I. O. C. has made it clear this week that the idea of barring Russia from the Rio Olympics fills him with horror. To levy such a punishment, he said, would result “in death and devastation. ” I have no idea what interior horror movie Bach was living through when he uttered those words. If we’ve learned anything from America’s experience with decades of athletic doping, and its efforts to clean up that culture, it’s that the unyielding effort by antidoping agencies carries its own reward. The United States   Agency now aggressively pursues dopers and bars their coaches. I am not a fan of lifetime bans I dislike playing grand executioner. But Justin Gatlin, the best of the great American dash men, offers a case study in the new approach to dopers. He was booted for four years in 2006 after testing positive for testosterone. His punishment resulted in humiliation and lost earnings that ran into millions. That strikes me as suitably tough, in that it allowed him a second chance. This, however, has not pleased the Madame Defarges in the press corps, who adore denouncing Gatlin. “The expectation in the United States now is that you will be tested and there will be no shortcuts,” Cobb said. “We have really narrowed the advantage that can be obtained through doping. ” A   coda, perhaps. But after decades in the wilderness, an expectation has been set, a standard established.