It was quite a night for the American swim team. Katie Ledecky, the most dominant female swimmer in Rio, demolished her own record in the   freestyle. Ledecky finished the 400 with a time of 3 minutes 56. 46 seconds. Ledecky’s historic performance fired up the U. S. men’s 4x100 relay team, which added Michael Phelps to the mix on race day. That move paid off when Phelps swam an incredible second leg in 47. 12, which his coach Bob Bowman said was one of his   fastest, to lead the Americans to victory over France. The gold was Phelps’s   19th. He’s sure to add more in these Games. Follow us here for the latest updates on our Olympics coverage. In the first big surprises of the Olympic tennis tournament, Novak Djokovic, the world’s dominant tennis player, and the doubles team of Venus and Serena Williams were upset in the first round. Djokovic had made the Olympic gold medal in singles one of his big priorities for 2016. He could not make it past the first round, and when it was over, both he and his conqueror, Juan Martín del Potro, were in tears in Rio de Janeiro. In a raucous atmosphere on center court at the Olympic Tennis Center, Del Potro produced one of the most remarkable performances of his career: upsetting Djokovic,   (4)   (2). The Williamses lost,     to the Czech team of Barbora Strycova and Lucie Safarova. The defeat was the Williams sisters’ first loss playing together at the Olympics. They won the gold medal in 2000, 2008 and 2012, and Sunday’s surprise defeat came against a team that had never won a match together.  —   CHRISTOPHER CLAREY How to Watch: NBC broadcasts on a tape delay, but you can stream all the events here. The Dutch cyclist Annemiek van Vleuten was involved in a spectacular crash near the end of the women’s road race at the Olympics on Sunday, suffering a concussion and fracturing her spine. Van Vleuten was leading the race by 40 seconds about 12 miles from the finish and was heading downhill when she failed to negotiate a turn, hit the curb and tumbled over her handlebars, landing on her head. The Dutch team said that van Vleuten had suffered a concussion. She was in stable condition in the intensive care unit of a Rio de Janeiro hospital. “Annemiek went through a total CT scan and is stable now,” said the team’s chief medical officer, Cees Rein van den Hoogenband. “No internal bleedings or damage. She will stay in intensive care for the next 24 hours. She is fully conscious, and her reactions are adequate. She also suffers from three minor fractures in her lumbar spine. ”  —   VICTOR MATHER Simone Biles lived up to her reputation as the world’s greatest gymnast in her first day of competition. In the qualifying competition, Biles had the highest score, ahead of her teammates Aly Raisman and Gabby Douglas. She was also first in three apparatus  —   the floor exercise, the balance beam and the vault. And the American team also finished in first place. The team competition is Tuesday. Here is why Simone Biles is unbeatable. In the Pool: Sarah Sjostrom of Sweden broke her own world record with a 55. 48 seconds to win the women’s   butterfly. The defending champion Dana Vollmer, who returned to competition last summer after the birth of her first child, won the bronze. She was trying to become the first mother from the United States to win an individual swimming gold. Paralympics officials have done what Olympics officials chose not to do, barring all Russian athletes from their Games after an elaborate cheating scheme. Speaking on Sunday in Rio de Janeiro, the head of the International Paralympic Committee, Philip Craven, decried Russia’s “thirst for glory” and “medals over morals” mentality, calling the     of doping among Russia’s top disabled athletes “abominable. ”  —   Rebecca Ruiz Miles   the flamboyant American world champion with the distinction of having a fencing move named after him, was beaten by Artur Akhmatkhuzin of Russia,   in the round of 32 of the men’s foil on Sunday morning.   tried his signature move, in which he whips his sword around the back of his head or back, four times but did not score with it. He will still compete in the team event on Friday as part of a strong American team that will be a medal contender.  —   Victor Mather Blowout Alert: It was expected to be a blowout. It was. The American women’s basketball team got its Olympics underway against Senegal. The final score was  . Breanna Stewart, Sylvia Fowles and Diana Taurasi each had 15 points for the United States. First for Kosovo: Competing as an independent nation in the Olympics for the first time, Kosovo did not wait long for its first gold medal. Majlinda Kelmendi won the women’s   judo competition. Some will tell you the first several days of the Summer Olympics are all about the pool. (The Australians have learned to swim again! Michael Phelps is still around! And so are Ryan Lochte’s abs!) There are a bevy of stars, and more medal ceremonies than you can handle. And of course, the smell of chlorine really brings you back to your childhood. But if you are in Rio for the Games (or even are watching from home) do what the locals do: Go to the beach. In a feat of intrepid reporting, John Branch spent the entire day and night at Copacabana Beach on Saturday, listening to the waves and watching Olympic athletes play in the sand. Read about John Branch’s beach vacation here.