SALT LAKE CITY  —   Donald J. Trump has vowed to turn blue states red in November, but as he continues to rattle Republicans with his combative style and provocative proposals, voters in some of the country’s most conservative strongholds are considering a radical idea: supporting Hillary Clinton. The dilemma posed by this year’s choice of candidates is perhaps most apparent here in Utah, a mountain state that has not backed a Democrat for president since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964. More than 50 years later, a large Mormon population with a strong distaste for Mr. Trump has left the state up for grabs, and with a substantial Mormon presence spilling into places such as Arizona, Idaho and Nevada, what would normally be a Republican safe zone could be surprisingly competitive. With the Clinton campaign looking to put   states in play, the decision for many Mormon voters in Utah has become agonizing as they digest Mr. Trump’s stances toward Muslims in light of their own history as an   religion, and as his “America First” message repels   Mormons who travel the world on missions and who welcome refugees. “People who normally vote Republican are in a terrible state of ambivalence right now,” said Tim Chambless, a political scientist at the University of Utah. “They are so undecided. They want to vote, but they aren’t sure how to vote. ” The first signs of Mr. Trump’s troubles in Utah date to early March, when Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee and a Mormon who is beloved in the state, gave a speech here warning that Americans were being duped by Mr. Trump. Later that month, Mr. Trump was throttled by Senator Ted Cruz in the state’s caucuses, winning a paltry 14 percent of the vote. In June, two polls showed Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton deadlocked in Utah, making it increasingly plausible that its six electoral votes are really in play. With three months until the election, the Clinton campaign is now considering a possible upset in Utah, the Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson is aggressively wooing disenchanted Republicans, and on Monday word came that Evan McMullin, a Mormon who is a former C. I. A. official opposed to Mr. Trump, was entering the race. Voters such as Angie Melton, who has never voted for a Democrat, are feeling deeply torn. “I’m upset by this turn of events,” Ms. Melton, 41, said as she sat in the shade with her family next to the towering Salt Lake Temple, the center of Mormonism. “I’ve always voted Republican, but my thought has been that she would be less damaging in terms of world politics,” she said, referring to Mrs. Clinton. “It doesn’t mean that I agree with much of anything she says or her as a person,” Ms. Melton added, “but I would rather that she win. ” Such   is common as trepidations about Mr. Trump grow. On substance and style, he evokes an antipathy among many Mormons that is rooted in culture, religion and history. For a religious group that was driven to Utah during the 19th century in the face of persecution, Mr. Trump’s calls for religious tests and a ban on Muslim migration echo a painful past, leaving some wondering if they will be next. “The issue of religious liberty is an important one in the state, and the notion of a religious test for immigration raises deep concerns,” said Chris Karpowitz, a director of Brigham Young University’s Center for the Study of Elections and Democracy. “Mormons are sensitive to issues like this because of their own history. ” Joseph Smith founded the Church of Jesus Christ of   Saints in upstate New York in 1830. Converts, however, were often targeted as heretics for practicing polygamy, believing in scriptures exclusive to Mormonism and saying that their faith was the true restoration of Christianity. Most Mormons were Democrats in the 19th century, Professor Karpowitz notes, because of Republican opposition to polygamy, but they started to move to the right in the 20th century. By the time the 2012 presidential election came around, with Mr. Romney as the candidate, 90 percent of Utah’s Mormons voted Republican. That number is expected to drop significantly this year with Mr. Trump atop the ticket. His shifting positions on social issues, his   views on immigration and his flashy lifestyle clash with Mormon sensibilities that prize humility and charity. And there is his stance against taking in refugees from abroad. “His rhetoric and the church’s rhetoric on refugees could not be more different,” said J. Quin Monson, an author of “Seeking the Promised Land: Mormons and American Politics. ” Mr. Trump’s ascendance has also divided Utah’s lawmakers, with some reluctantly saying they will support the nominee and others showing resistance. Among the holdouts is Senator Mike Lee, a Mormon whose opposition to Mr. Trump stalled in a floor fight at the Republican convention last month. He articulated in a June interview why the candidate was unpopular, pointing to statements that he said reflected religious intolerance. “My state consists of members who were a religious minority church  —   a people who were ordered exterminated by the governor of Missouri in 1839, and statements like that make them nervous,” Mr. Lee said. Facing a tough   fight against a Democrat, Representative Mia Love, a rising Republican star, skipped the party’s convention in Cleveland and gave up her role as a delegate. She has not said if she will vote for Mr. Trump. There have even been some defections. Mark Madsen, a Republican state senator who did attend the convention as a delegate, abandoned the party in frustration in late July and became a Libertarian. Mr. Madsen, who is Mormon, said he thought he was being   into supporting Mr. Trump. “It’s hard to figure out where he is on issues because he’s all over the place,” Mr. Madsen said. “I think he’s frankly boorish and banal. ” Sensing opportunity in the air, Mr. Trump’s opponents are watching Utah closely. The state has a strong libertarian streak, and Mr. Johnson, whose campaign headquarters is in Salt Lake City, has been returning regularly in hopes that he can capitalize on dissatisfaction with Mr. Trump. That he was governor in nearby New Mexico could help his cause, although if he siphons votes away from Mr. Trump, it could benefit Mrs. Clinton. Democrats are also taking Utah seriously. While they realize that their improved chances in the state are not because their nominee has suddenly surged in popularity, the party would be happy to break its losing streak. “This is the first time since the   that a Democratic presidential candidate could win in Utah,” said Peter Corroon, the party’s chairman in the state. “Unfortunately, it’s not because of the Democrat, it’s because of the Republican. ” Nonetheless, the Clinton campaign has staff on the ground in Utah, and it is dispatching former President Bill Clinton to the state for a   event this week. The campaign would not say if Mrs. Clinton would make a trip of her own, but the possibility remains. “There is no doubt that Donald Trump’s offensive rhetoric has made Utah more competitive than before, and we will continue to assess our options in the state,” said Marlon Marshall, the Clinton campaign’s director of state campaigns and political engagement. Young Republican Mormons such as Mary Weidman give Democrats hope. Sitting outside a soda shop in Provo, Ms. Weidman explained that after supporting Mr. Romney four years ago, she would vote for Mrs. Clinton in November. “I think it’s the lesser of two evils,” Ms. Weidman, 27, said, expressing dismay over how Mr. Trump talks about women. “When you think of a leader, he lacks every trait. ” Despite such sentiments, it is risky to count Republicans out. While the Trump campaign had no comment about its strategy, the state Republican Party said that Mr. Trump’s team was up and running in Utah. Longtime conservatives who say they are thinking about voting for Mrs. Clinton could have second thoughts on Election Day. “Republicans at this point are a little unhappy with Trump, but they’re going to vote for him,” said James Evans, the chairman of the state party. That appeared to be the case for Nathan Alder, a    Republican Mormon who goes to Utah Valley University in Orem. “I don’t like Trump, but I probably will vote for him,” Mr. Alder said, explaining that his worries about what he considers Mrs. Clinton’s liberal views narrowly outweighed his fears about Mr. Trump’s temperament. “I am pretty torn. I’m not going to lie. ”