RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Olympics officials on Saturday gave what they said was a definitive explanation why the water in two competition pools turned green this week. Someone, the officials said, mistakenly added 160 liters of hydrogen peroxide on Aug. 5, neutralizing the chlorine and allowing the growth of “organic compounds” that might have included algae. On Saturday, the water in the diving pool was still a murky   color, while the water in the second pool, used for water polo and synchronized swimming, had begun to look a bit lighter and a bit bluer. Athletes have been complaining that the water or the chemicals treating it hurt their eyes, and that murkiness makes underwater visibility impossible. Synchronized swimming, in which athletes have to be able to see each other below the surface, is scheduled to start Sunday. Mario Andrada, a spokesman for the Rio Games, said that to ensure that the competition could go ahead, officials would drain the water from the pool  —   all 3, 725, 000 liters of it  —   and replace it with clean water from a nearby practice pool. The procedure is expected to take 10 hours: six to drain the pool and four to refill it, said Gustavo Nascimento, director of venue management for the Rio Olympics. Abashed at reports that they had not been transparent enough about the scope of the problem or quick enough to solve it, Andrada and Nascimento held a news conference Saturday at the site of the pools, the Maria Lenk Aquatics Center. They said they did not want to assign blame for the mishap, although it appeared that the errant hydrogen peroxide had been added by a local   worker who thought he was doing the right thing. Hydrogen peroxide is a perfectly plausible   agent, Nascimento said, except when it combines with chlorine. When athletes started using the pools last weekend, the neutralized chlorine spurred the proliferation of organic compounds. Officials did not say what those compounds might be. “The electronic monitoring system that measures the amount of chlorine in the water was betrayed by this chemistry,” Nascimento said. So while the monitors showed that there was a proper amount of chlorine in the pools, he explained, they failed to pick up on the fact that the chlorine was no longer working. Andrada said he was sorry to have promised at several points along the way that the problem would be cleared up right away, when that had not turned out to be the case. “Of course it’s an embarrassment,” he said. “We are hosting the Olympic Games, and athletes are here, so water is going to be an issue. We should have been better in fixing it quickly. We learned painful lessons the hard way. ” The United States had never failed to take the gold in the men’s 4x100 medley relay at a   Summer Games, and it was not about to end the streak on Saturday, not in the competitive swansong of the   greatest Olympian, Michael Phelps. The backstroker Ryan Murphy and the breaststroker Cody Miller set the stage for Phelps, who handed the freestyle anchor Nathan Adrian a lead he refused to relinquish. The Americans won with an Olympic record time of 3 minutes 27. 95 seconds, to give Phelps his 23rd gold medal and his 28th overall. If Phelps were a country, he would be tied for 38th with South Africa. “You just have no idea how difficult it is for anybody to win an Olympic gold medal,” said Phelps’s longtime coach, Bob Bowman. “I know Michael’s done it so frequently it’s really hard to put it in perspective. ” After 63 races spread over five Olympics and covering 11, 800 meters, Phelps is finished. He entered the Rio Games as the most decorated Olympian of all time, with 22 medals, including 18 golds and has added 5 golds and a silver. His other victories came in the two freestyle relays, the   butterfly and the 200 individual medley, where he became the third American Olympian after the track and field athletes Al Oerter and Carl Lewis to win the same event four times.  —   KAREN CROUSE Simone Manuel, who earlier this week became the first   woman to win an individual gold medal in swimming, followed that up with a silver medal, this time in the   freestyle. Manuel, who came into the Rio Games with the   time in the world, swam a time of 24. 09 seconds, 0. 02 seconds behind the winner, Denmark’s Pernille Blume. Aliaksandra Herasimenia of Belarus won the bronze medal in 24. 11 seconds. Manuel wasn’t done yet. She swam the anchor leg on the women’s winning 4x100 medley relay team, setting the stage for the men to do the same. Argentina Beats Brazil in Basketball: This one felt more like a World Cup soccer match than a basketball game. In front of a tense, raucous crowd at Carioca Arena in the Olympic Park, Argentina and Brazil went    for four quarters and two overtimes before Argentina prevailed,  . It was a crushing defeat for Brazilians, who were all but eliminated by one of their greatest rivals. Tensions have been high between fans of these two countries  —   including a brawl at an early tennis match  —   and, although there was no violence, several reports said verbal taunts were coming from both sides during this game. Brazil, which led by as many as 10 points in the second half, had a chance to win at the end of regulation, but Marcelinho Huertas missed a short jumper at the buzzer. The teams traded baskets in the first overtime while the volume continued to rise in the building. Argentina built a   lead in the second overtime, but Leandro Barbosa, the Brazilian favorite who plays for the N. B. A. ’s Phoenix Suns, cut the lead to 1 with three straight baskets. But Barbosa missed a runner in the lane with one minute remaining and the Argentines held on to win.  —   SAM MANCHESTER Monica Puig Wins Puerto Rico’s First Gold: The Puerto Rican anthem had just been played for the first time at an Olympic medal ceremony. Monica Puig was wiping away her tears when the two women she had defeated in her final surge to her big surprise of a gold stepped up to the top step of the podium to join her for pictures. Both were Grand Slam champions. Petra Kvitova, whom Puig upset in three sets in the semifinals, has won Wimbledon twice. Angelique Kerber, whom Puig upset,       in Saturday’s final, won the Australian Open earlier this year and reached the Wimbledon final last month. But Puig, an unimposing    ranked 34th in the world, has won something big of her own, and she did not do it by getting lucky. Puig is the first gold medalist from Puerto Rico. In fact, she is the first woman representing Puerto Rico to win any medal at the Games. “I’m just so proud that it was a gold,” she said.  —   CHRISTOPHER CLAREY U. S. Wins Bronze in Fencing: The American women’s saber team won a bronze medal on Saturday with a   victory over Italy, thereby atoning for some disappointing finishes in the individual event. Saber is the fastest of the fencing disciplines, with points seldom lasting more than a few seconds. Almost before the match started, the Americans were on top, winning their first two bouts,   and  . The team, which included the   Olympic individual champion, Mariel Zagunis, and Ibtihaj Muhammad, who has gained notoriety as the first American athlete to compete at the Olympics with a hijab, never let up, winning seven bouts of nine and drawing one.  —   VICTOR MATHER Brazil Advances in Soccer: This was a good weekend for Brazilian soccer at the Olympics. On Friday night, the women’s team advanced to the semifinals, but just barely, overcoming a miss by Marta in the final stages of a penalty shootout to eventually defeat Australia. The game had ended in a   tie after 90 minutes of regulation and 30 minutes of overtime. The Brazilian women will now play Sweden, which upset the United States on Friday in a game that also ended in a shootout. Last night, the Brazilian men’s team downed Colombia,   to move into a semifinal match against Honduras. The other semifinal will pair Nigeria and Germany.  —   JAY SCHREIBER