Rescuers navigated submerged streets and neighborhoods in parts of southern Louisiana on Monday, plucking people to safer ground and trying to stay ahead of the   waterways spilling over into new areas. At least eight people died in the flooding, Gov. John Bel Edwards said in a news conference on Tuesday. Tangipahoa and St. Helena Parishes had reported two deaths each by Monday. East Baton Rouge Parish reported three. More than 11, 000 people were in 70 shelters as of Monday, and many more are expected, said Mike Steele, a spokesman for the Governor’s Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness. “The floodwaters are drifting downstream below Baton Rouge,” Mr. Steele said. “That’s the biggest concern now. ” “We have additional rain in the forecast all week, and it is still a threat each day,” he added. The National Weather Service said Monday that significant flooding would continue along bayous and streams that feed into the Amite River through three parishes south of Baton Rouge  —   Iberville, Ascension and St. James. Residents of the Iberville Parish were urged to evacuate on Monday. More than 20, 000 people have so far been evacuated in flooded areas, and that number is expected to continue to rise as rain this week falls on saturated ground, he said. The floods have turned roads into surreal lakes in which the tops of cars and other structures are barely visible, breaking the surface of brown, muddy waters. The rescue of one woman was captured on video and broadcast by a local TV station, WAFB. Rescuers drew up near her submerged convertible car in floodwaters in Baton Rouge over the weekend, but they were unable to extract her from the vehicle until one of them got access through its fabric rooftop. “Oh, my God, I’m drowning,” the woman can be heard saying from inside the car, the station reported. Citizens are helping out, volunteering their time and boats to go house to house to pick up residents in trouble. Firefighters, the National Guard and the Coast Guard, using helicopters and small   boats, were among those who have also joined the effort. President Obama has declared four parishes north and east of Baton Rouge  —   Tangipahoa, St. Helena, East Baton Rouge and Livingston  —   as disaster areas, making them eligible for federal assistance. Mr. Steele said additional parishes were likely to be added to the federal emergency funds list and he urged residents to take advantage of the assistance. State government offices were closed in at least 27 parishes, nearly half of the state’s 64 parishes, officials said. The floods submerged neighborhoods and highways after days of heavy storms in southern Louisiana, stretching from the parishes to the north and east of Baton Rouge west past the city of Lafayette over the weekend. Those stranded by the waters found themselves further marooned by a huge cellular network failure. Two of the victims of the flooding were in vehicles that were swept off the road one was a man who drowned after he slipped and fell in the waters during a rescue and the fourth was a man who had been swept away on Friday and whose body had been found on Sunday morning, a reporter for   a local news station, said on Facebook. The Town Talk of Alexandria, La. reported that a fifth person died on Sunday when her car was swept into a ditch. Ms. Faulkner had no further details about the sixth death. Law enforcement officers in the   areas have told state officials they expect the death toll to climb. Many houses have lost power and cellphone service, complicating the rescue process as emergency workers rely on   . Jim Hawthorne, a retired radio broadcaster, stood on his front porch in floodwaters nearly up to his hips on Sunday, saying “hey, hey” to capture the attention of a passing boat motoring down the street in the Park Forest neighborhood of Baton Rouge where he lived with his wife, Carol. “I heard the boat. We were laying there reading. I had the windows open. I said, ‘Carol, that boat is real close,’” Mr. Hawthorne told The Advocate. “I waded through the water and went out the front door. I could still see the waves rippling from the boat. “I yelled as loud as I could, and they heard me,” the    said. “I was in water up to my   . I was yelling, ‘HEY! HEY!’ The motor stopped and they came around and came back. ” They were rescued.