(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Floodwaters have begun to recede in Louisiana, where at least 13 people are dead, tens of thousands more have been displaced and 40, 000 homes are damaged. These photos and maps show the scale of the disaster. Emergency officials and ordinary citizens are going    to offer help, 1, 000 Red Cross workers joined aid efforts and shelters were packed. “The sheltering effort is actually greater than what we saw for Hurricane Katrina,” a local official near Baton Rouge said. _____ 2. Donald Trump shook up his campaign with moves that suggest he intends to stick with his aggressive style. He brought in a combative media executive as campaign manager: Stephen Bannon, from the conservative website Breitbart News. Paul Manafort, whose efforts to shift Mr. Trump to a more presidential tone were hobbled by concerns over his own business dealings in Ukraine, retains the title of campaign chairman. Mr. Trump also received his first classified briefing, at the F. B. I. ’s Manhattan field office and held his own national security roundtable, above, at Trump Tower. _____ 3. Hillary Clinton flew to Cleveland to offer a granular critique of Mr. Trump’s tax policies and promised to shift more of the tax burden upward. “We’re going to tax the wealthy who have made all of the income gains in the last 15 years,” she said. “The   corporations, Wall Street, they’re going to have to invest in education, in skills training, in infrastructure. ” Our election model currently gauges Mrs. Clinton’s likelihood of winning at 88 percent to Mr. Trump’s 12 percent. _____ 4. U. S. intelligence agencies are scrambling to determine if the National Security Agency was hacked, after   code used to break into foreign systems showed up on websites this week. Edward Snowden tweeted from exile in Moscow that Russia was a likely suspect, and that the disclosures might be intended to “influence the calculus of   wondering how sharply to respond to the DNC hacks. ” Here’s what we know about the cyberattacks on Democratic officials. _____ 5. At the Rio Olympics, the host country, Brazil, goes for a fourth gold tonight (11 p. m. Eastern, NBC) with the beach volleyball team above, pictured after beating the U. S. in the semifinal. The U. S. women’s water polo team advanced to the final after beating Hungary. Check out our interactive on just how brutal the sport can be. The Brazilian authorities found evidence contradicting parts of Ryan Lochte’s account of a gunpoint robbery and pulled two U. S. swimmers, Jack Conger and Gunnar Bentz, off their flights home. Mr. Lochte had already left the country. And several boxing referees and judges were barred from Olympic service a day after an Irish bantamweight, Michael Conlan, raged over losing a fight that he, and the crowd, thought he had won. _____ 6. France’s battle over the burkini swept in a top government official. Prime Minister Manuel Valls said the   swimsuit worn by Muslim women reflected the “enslavement of women. ” But Muslim women, reacting to bans by several mayors, have complained to community groups that they are being singled out, and their choice of swimwear is now a dividing line in France’s increasingly fraught relationship with its Muslim population, Europe’s largest. France, with its determinedly secular government, already bans   veils in public and headscarves in schools. _____ 7. A team of researchers at the University of Chicago cast light on one of the big puzzles in evolution. They found a surprising biological link between the fin and the human hand, in the form of genes that tell a clump of embryonic cells to end up at the far end of an appendage. “Honestly, you could have knocked me over with a feather,” one scientist said. _____ 8. A wildfire near San Bernardino, Calif. “hit hard, it hit fast, it hit with an intensity that we haven’t seen before,” the county fire chief said. High winds, high temperatures and low humidity in the state’s fifth year of drought drove the flames to flare from five acres to 30, 000 in less than 24 hours. Officials ordered the evacuation of about 82, 000 residents in an estimated 34, 500 homes. Experts say wildfires are getting bigger and more destructive. _____ 9. The latest headlines about “The Birth of a Nation,” the slavery revolt film due in 1, 500 theaters on Oct. 7, are not about its chances to prevent another #OscarsSoWhite debacle. Instead, the attention is on details of a    rape case involving Nate Parker, the film’s writer, director and star. Vitriol has poured out on social media, and in Los Angeles, promotional posters of Mr. Parker as Nat Turner were altered to read, “Rapist?” _____ 10. Michelangelo’s David is having joint trouble. More specifically, his    ankles have become riddled with cracks, leaving the masterpiece at risk of collapse in the eventuality of a serious earthquake  —   a real possibility in Florence. In one of our most popular stories today, our magazine writer, mulling over his long obsession with the statue and the concept of perfection, notes that Italy has stalled on the known solution: an antiseismic base. _____ 11. Finally, Americans, especially those avoiding gluten, are increasingly turning to ancient grains like quinoa, amaranth and millet. Now there’s a surge of interest in teff, a staple for Ethiopia’s legendary distance runners. It is high in protein and iron, has more calcium and vitamin C than almost any other grain and is rich in a beneficial form of starch. Try it in pancakes or as polenta. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.