RIO DE JANEIRO  —   The Argentine fans were waving flags, imploring their compatriots to jump along, and singing that anyone who did not join the fun was Brazilian. The Brazilians yelled right back, heralding the career goal tally of Pele, their soccer hero, and crowing about their five World Cup trophies. They made sure, of course, to insult Diego Maradona, Argentina’s own World Cup legend. It was, in many ways, a typical, sardonic showdown between fans of the two   South American rivals  —   except it was happening on Wednesday night at a basketball game between Argentina and the United States. The Americans looked lively amid the noise, sauntering to a   win that left the Brazilians fans  —   their sports allies for a night  —   singing in joy. As the seconds ticked off the clock in the blowout, Brazilians fans yelled out “Ole!” to usher the Argentines out of Carioca Arena 1. “We didn’t understand what was going on,” said Paul George, who had 17 and 8 rebounds and galvanized his team with his defense effort. “We didn’t know if they were against each other or if they were cheering with each other. ” Want all the results in Rio? Go here. Two American swimmers were pulled off their flight to the United States by Brazilian authorities, Olympic officials said Wednesday night, the latest indication that the police are skeptical of the swimmers’ claims that they were held up at gunpoint during the Rio Games. “We can confirm that Jack Conger and Gunnar Bentz were removed from their flight to the United States by Brazilian authorities,” a spokesman for the United States Olympic Committee said. “We are gathering further information. ” Earlier, a Brazilian judge issued an order to prevent Ryan Lochte and James Feigen, the other two American swimmers involved in the case, from leaving the country as doubts emerged over their testimony about the episode. Read the complete story here. Elaine Thompson of Jamaica won the 200 meters    to complete a sprint double at the games. Dafne Schippers of the Netherlands won the silver medal, and Tori Bowie of the United States won the bronze. Her winning time was 21. 78. In the 100 meters, Thompson had dethroned her countrywoman, the   winner    . Bowie was the silver medalist in that race. Gatlin fails to qualify in 200: The American sprinter Justin Gatlin surprisingly failed to qualify for the final of the 200 meters. Gatlin, who won the silver medal in the 100, seemed to ease up in the last strides only to slip to third place. Only the top two finishers in each semifinal automatically qualified for the final. Usain Bolt qualified by winning another semifinal, as did the American Lashawn Merritt. U. S. Sweeps 100 Hurdles: The United States completed a rare    sweep in the women’s   hurdles. Brianna Rollins won the gold medal, Nia Ali the silver and Kristi Castlin the bronze. Several referees and judges have been removed from the Olympic boxing competition after officials reviewed their decisions, fueling suspicion of dubious results in some matches at the Rio Games. The federation, known as AIBA, said in a statement that the committee that reviews officiating had assessed all 239 bouts at the Rio Games through Tuesday and had “determined that less than a handful of the decisions were not at the level expected. ” The federation also said in the statement that “the concerned referees and judges will no longer officiate at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. ” Read the article here. How to Watch: NBC broadcasts on a tape delay, but you can stream all the events here. Boxing: Claressa Shields, generally considered the best American boxer of either sex, made her debut in the Olympic ring with a comfortable unanimous decision over Iaroslava Iakushina of Russia in a quarterfinal. The victory clinched a medal for Shields, the defending Olympic champion and a   world champion. Track and Field: Ashton Eaton of the United States, the   holder, began his defense of his gold medal in the decathlon with the first five events. Eaton’s wife, the Canadian Brianne   took bronze in the heptathlon earlier in the Games. Usain Bolt and Justin Gatlin are at it again, in the semifinals of the 200 meters. The women are already down to the final, in which Elaine Thompson of Jamaica, who won the 100, will look to double, and Dafne Schippers of the Netherlands will look to stop her. Then the night at the Olympic Stadium could be capped with an American sweep in the women’s   hurdles. Volleyball: The United States men advanced to the semifinals with a   victory over Poland. Golf: While many of the PGA Tour stars skipped the Games, the top women came to Brazil in numbers. They got their first shot at the Olympic Golf Course on Wednesday. Ariya Jutanugarn of Thailand, this year’s British Open winner, was the leader after one round. It has been a rough stretch for Brazil at these Games. Playing at home in front of loud, supportive crowds, the Brazilians endured critical losses to Argentina in men’s basketball and to Sweden in women’s soccer, and on Tuesday their   women’s beach volleyball team lost to Germany. But when midnight struck on Copacabana, the Brazilians took their beach back. And on Wednesday afternoon, they reclaimed the soccer field. In front of a raucous home crowd, Brazil’s No. 2 beach volleyball team, Ágatha and Bárbara, knocked out the favored United States pair of Kerri Walsh Jennings and April Ross to advance to the gold medal match. Brazil’s triumph ended the gold medal run of Walsh Jennings, a   Olympic champion, and restored some pride in the Brazilian ranks. Ágatha and Bárbara won,     to earn a spot in the final against Germany (11 p. m. Eastern on Wednesday) which had beaten the   Brazilians Talita and Larissa earlier Tuesday night. Walsh Jennings had won three gold medals and had never lost an Olympic match. She had lost only two sets in her Olympic career before falling in straight sets at the Copacabana venue. The Brazilian men’s soccer team, which had been lambasted after two tame   draws to start the tournament, put it all together in a semifinal game at the famed Maracanã stadium, demolishing Honduras,   with Neymar scoring twice. The gold medal game is Saturday.