WASHINGTON  —   Senate Democrats, aware of the dead weight that Donald J. Trump has placed on their vulnerable Republican colleagues, can taste a reclaimed majority. But just as Senate Republicans blew their chances in 2010 and 2012 before finally taking control in 2014, Democrats find themselves hobbled by    candidates in races that could make the difference in winning a majority. In Pennsylvania, Katie McGinty, a relatively unknown former federal official who has never held elective office, is ahead in polls but lags Hillary Clinton’s large lead in the state. In Florida, a nasty primary between two flawed candidates could harm the Democrats’ chance to unseat Senator Marco Rubio. Several   Democrats turned down the chance to challenge Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina before they settled on a civil liberties lawyer, Deborah Ross, who is not necessarily a good fit for suburban voters there. Catherine Cortez Masto, a Democrat and former state attorney general now running for an open seat in Nevada, has also failed to catch fire. To challenge    Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, Democrats settled on    Patty Judge. Senator Rob Portman’s Democratic challenger in Ohio, former Gov. Ted Strickland, is 75, an easy target for Mr. Portman’s taunting nickname, “Retread Ted. ” The Democrats’ problem stems from a depletion of their ranks in state legislatures and governors’ mansions over recent years and a lack of institutional support for    politicians who represent a changing base. “Democrats cannibalize each other when they lose those seats and don’t have new talent to fill them,” said Daniel A. Smith, a professor of political science at the University of Florida. “Here and in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin and North Carolina are states that should have Democratic   legislatures, and the fact that they don’t not only marginalizes Democrats, but also makes it increasingly hard to build a farm team. ” Republicans, of course, find themselves in a fundamental conflict between Mr. Trump’s populist insurgents and traditional conservatives. But Democrats are mired in their own struggle, as they try to identify future stars who can appeal to a base increasingly insistent on a progressive agenda. Florida’s Senate Democratic primary this Tuesday pits a bombastic, populist liberal, Representative Alan Grayson, against the establishment’s pick, Representative Patrick Murphy, in the kind of showdown that analysts expect to see in the party’s future. “Democrats are going to have their own Tea Party moment in 2018,” said Jennifer Duffy, a senior editor and Senate analyst for The Cook Political Report. “I don’t think they are going to put up with the party dictating who their candidates are. ” The issue was highlighted this year when Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont found considerable success by running against the sort of incremental liberalism of President Obama and Mrs. Clinton. Mrs. Clinton followed that pattern with her selection of Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, who is to the right of many progressives, as her running mate. While some    Democrats like Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York had speaking spots at the party’s convention last month, none had the prominence of Mr. Obama in 2004, when he gave the keynote speech that lifted him to national prominence. “The bench is not apparent right now,” said David Axelrod, the chief strategist for Mr. Obama’s presidential campaigns. “There are some impressive young leaders, but who among them is the next presidential nominee I can’t answer. A lot of them are not there yet. ” “Democrats have done a poor job, and I take my share of responsibility here, in not being as focused as Republicans have on building at the grass roots,” Mr. Axelrod said. “Look what the G. O. P. and their related agents have done with legislative and City Council and school board races. They are building capacity, and Democrats have paid the cost. ” Many promising young Democrats in the House have been frustrated by the reluctance of Representative Nancy Pelosi, the minority leader, and her aging deputies to step aside and let new members ascend to leadership  —   one of the few rewards for a minority party in the House. “I was on the recruitment committee, and a lot of candidates decided to take a pass,” said Representative Karen Bass, Democrat of California. She added, “There are people who are new to Congress and have a difficult situation because they are not going to be there for 20 years. ” Some simply leave. “I was one of the few Democrats not to support Nancy Pelosi for leader,” said Representative Gwen Graham, Democrat of Florida, who is retiring after one term and planning to run for governor. “We need new voices. ” Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, once considered a potential House speaker, is running for the Senate. Democratic ranks have also been decimated in state governments across the nation, where new leaders tend to plant roots for future higher office. After the 2008 elections, Democrats controlled 62 of the 99 state legislatures today, Republicans control 68 chambers, according to Governing magazine. Over the same time period, the number of Democrats in governor’s mansions fell from 28 to 18. In both cases, Republican control is now at or near historic highs. Democrats point out that they have strong leads in Senate races in Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin, and that most analysts believe the party is in a strong position to retake the chamber. They also note that many of their candidates are raising more money than their Republican rivals. “Because of our recruitment work, Republicans are forced to spend money and energy in states they never dreamed would be competitive,” said Sadie Weiner, a spokeswoman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. Mrs. Clinton, some Democrats argue, is trying to make   more of a priority by coordinating closely with   races, carrying their campaign literature when canvassing, sharing office space and helping them raise money. These efforts are particularly forceful in Nevada, where Republicans hold a narrow legislative majority, and in Colorado, where the legislature is closely divided between the two parties. “The organizing our volunteers and staff are doing in all 50 states will not only help elect Democrats in November but also build the party’s bench and infrastructure for the future,” said Lily Adams, a spokeswoman for the Clinton campaign. The rise of term limits in legislatures has hurt both parties’ efforts to create a ready pool of future senators and eventual presidential contenders. “There is a big bench out there,” said Hannah Pingree, the former speaker of the Maine House of Representatives, who lost her position to term limits and is now taking a break to raise her children. “Lots of women and young people get   out,” she said. Widely viewed as a rising star in her party  —   her mother, Chellie Pingree, is a member of Congress  —   Ms. Pingree, 39, hopes to find her way back. Democrats have also complained that the party has not worked hard enough to promote an agenda that is appealing to the party’s growing base of progressive whites, nonwhites and millennials, fearing that such policies could turn off older, more traditional Democratic voters. Stacey Abrams, the minority leader of the Georgia General Assembly, called that the “fear that is inherent in transitions. ” She is considered one of the party’s brightest young stars, in no small part because she has unseated five Republicans in the Georgia legislature. “This is a party that is comprised of what is being referred to as the new American majority,” she said. “Those are progressive whites, people of color and millennials. We have to focus our politics on turning out those voters. ”