Good. But not too good. That is the verdict from economists after the Labor Department reported on Friday that in August employers added 151, 000 jobs, the unemployment rate was unchanged at 4. 9 percent, and wage gains were modest. It was a solid performance that keeps the economy on track, but not strong enough to push the Federal Reserve to raise its benchmark interest rate when policy makers meet this month. “It confirms that the economy is performing well, but does not provide the threat of overheating that might have caused an   increase sooner rather than later,” said Carl R. Tannenbaum, chief economist at Northern Trust. Since the financial crisis, the Fed has raised interest rates just once, in December, from near zero. Low rates are intended to encourage businesses to borrow and invest, but Fed policy makers are now split between those who worry that reducing this economic stimulus would undermine growth and those who fear that waiting could allow inflation to take hold. Republicans and Democrats mined the report for evidence that supported the economic arguments they will make through the November election. How to handle a recovery that has delivered steady but less than spectacular growth has not only been a flash point among Fed bankers  —   who will next meet on Sept. 20 and 21  —   but also between the presidential candidates Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton. For the Trump campaign, which has suggested that recent employment figures have understated the dire state of the labor market, the decline in manufacturing jobs was another sign that the policies of the Obama administration were leaving   workers behind. Mr. Trump, a Republican, has also railed against trade deals, blaming them for jobs lost to Mexico and China, as part of his strategy to appeal to disaffected white,   voters. “The latest economic numbers from the past day paint a bleak picture,” said Curtis Ellis, a senior economic adviser to Mr. Trump. Hoping to attract those same   voters, Mrs. Clinton, a Democrat, has proposed public investments in infrastructure like roads, affordable housing and renewable energy. Jacob Leibenluft, an economic adviser to the Clinton campaign, said that she was focused on dealing with “the challenge of not enough   jobs and the general sense of economic insecurity that persists. ” At the same time, Democrats have pointed to the positive signs in the overall economy, highlighting sturdy job growth in the private sector that has lasted a record 78 months, and a low jobless rate. Some economists say that a recovery as modest and uneven as this one would normally add to the problems for the incumbent political party, but the unorthodox nature of Mr. Trump’s candidacy could help Mrs. Clinton overcome the odds. “A kind of   status quo economy might not have been good enough for Clinton against a normal Republican candidate,” Kyle Kondik, of the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics, said. “But against Trump maybe it will be enough. ” The jobless rate, based on a separate survey of households, stayed at 4. 9 percent, roughly half of what it was seven years ago, and consumer spending remains healthy. But a broader measure of unemployment that includes discouraged and underemployed workers is nearly twice that figure. Wages have only recently begun to climb. The   increase was a modest 2. 4 percent in August, slower than in the previous month but a pace that keeps most workers ahead of inflation. Another report released on Friday offered more encouraging news, showing that the United States trade deficit shrank sharply, by 11. 6 percent in July from the previous month, because of an increase in American exports. Earlier, monthly job gains   plummeting to 24, 000 in May and swelling to more than 10 times that number in June and July. As Labor Secretary Thomas E. Perez said, “Sometimes the porridge is really hot sometimes the porridge is really cold this one is in between. ” Revised estimates from the Labor Department left the hearty totals from the previous two reports little changed and took the   average of monthly job gains to 232, 000 after big gains of 271, 000 in June and 275, 000 in July. The August estimate is subject to two more revisions. Economists, who estimate that the nation needs about 100, 000 new jobs every month to keep up with population growth, say it is natural for the jobs machine to slow as the pool of unemployed workers gradually dries up. Still, large numbers of   workers remain out of the labor market altogether, widening the gap between the haves and the   and depressing wage gains. “A lot of people are still on the bench that could come into the labor market,” said Ken Esch, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers or PwC, an accounting and consulting network. “Until more people are participating, I don’t see the inflationary pressures, and our data says we don’t expect to see much over the next 12 months. ” A recent PwC survey of private companies found that fewer than half of respondents planned to add positions in the next 12 months, a decrease from the first quarter of 2016, and that companies expected to increase wages, but by less than 3 percent. Retirements in the baby boom generation are also playing a role in keeping wage gains modest. “You have many young, inexperienced workers joining the work force today, and many older workers at the peak of their earnings retiring,” said Andrew Chamberlain, chief economist at Glassdoor Economic Research. “That churning is pulling the average wage down. ” Diversity in wage growth is wide. “Most of the best gains are in skilled jobs, like tech, health care and finance,” Mr. Chamberlain said. “There are very poor wage gains in many   professions, especially manufacturing and energy,” two areas that have also been shedding jobs. Ian Siegel, a founder and the chief executive of ZipRecruiter, which distributes job postings primarily from small and midsize businesses, said he had noticed that “the number of jobs posted stayed flat, but there’s been a shift in mix,” with a “big increase in   jobs. ” His observations are in line with a report released last month by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that found the American economy was creating more   jobs, basically defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as those paying $30, 000 to $60, 000 a year. “The tide has begun to turn,” William C. Dudley, president of the New York Fed, said when the report was released. “For the first time in quite a while, we are seeing gains in   jobs actually outnumber gains in   and   jobs nationwide. ” Dan Finnigan, chief executive of Jobvite, a recruiting service used by   said the tightening job market might be prying open more opportunities for younger workers. “I’m hearing without a doubt that employers are taking more risks and are forced to hire less experienced people for jobs,” he said. In his view, older workers who were able to delay retirement when the recession hit did so, blocking more junior employees from moving up the pipeline. That clog is finally beginning to clear. The growing number of retirees accounts to some degree for the droopy labor force participation rate, offsetting the number of sidelined workers who have rejoined the labor force, Jason Furman, chairman of the president’s Council of Economic Advisers, said. At the same time, Mr. Furman acknowledged that a large proportion of   workers, 25 to 54, particularly men, remained outside the circle of work. This group’s participation rate, now at 88 percent, started slipping decades ago, he said, but the decline in the United States has been much sharper than in advanced Western European economies. “That leads me to the conclusion that it is not caused by technology but is a result of institutional and policy choices we’ve made as a country,” Mr. Furman said. “For women, we do very little to subsidize child care or make workplaces flexible. When it comes to men, we spend very little money to train people for jobs or find jobs. ” Jonas Prising, chairman and chief executive of the ManpowerGroup, one of the largest recruiters in the United States, agreed that low participation rates were troubling, despite the improving labor market. “It may look like full employment,” he said, “but it’s not full employment. ”