JERUSALEM  —   The Israeli military said on Tuesday that Syrian forces had fired two    missiles after Israeli aircraft targeted artillery positions in the Syrian Golan Heights overnight, but it categorically denied a claim by the Syrians that they had shot down an Israeli warplane and a drone. It was not immediately clear whether the Syrian antiaircraft fire early Tuesday, a rare response to an Israeli air incursion, was intended to hit the Israeli planes or to serve as a warning. Syria’s state news agency, SANA, cited the country’s General Command of the Army and Armed Forces as saying that defense forces responded to an attack by “the Israeli enemy’s air force” on a military position in the southern province of Quneitra around 1 a. m. Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the Israeli military, said the Syrians “didn’t shoot anything down. ” Suggesting that the missile fire had not come close to hitting the Israeli aircraft, he added that they were “in no danger” and that “at no point was the safety of the aircraft compromised. ” Israeli Army Radio said that the missile fire had been inaccurate and had occurred long after the Israeli attack. The altercation came soon after a fragile   went into effect on Monday in Syria, part of an international effort to reduce the violence there after more than five years of civil war. However, insurgents fighting government forces in the Quneitra area of the   section of the Golan Heights have declared a new offensive. The Israeli military said its attack on Syrian artillery positions had come in response to what appeared to be spillover from that fighting, after a projectile landed on the   side of the Golan Heights for the fourth time in a week. Three more projectiles landed on the Israeli side later on Tuesday, without causing injury, and Israeli aircraft retaliated again, targeting more Syrian government artillery positions, the Israeli military said. Colonel Lerner said it was not always clear whether the rounds that had hit   territory had been the result of an intentional attack or of errant fire. Israel has repeatedly declared its neutrality in the struggle between President Bashar   of Syria and rebel forces, but it has been carrying out a covert campaign to prevent the transfer of sophisticated weapons from Syria to Hezbollah, the militant Lebanese Shiite organization that is aiding Mr. Assad. Other strikes attributed to Israel, which fought a monthlong war against Hezbollah in 2006, have targeted forces associated with the militant group across the     line in the Golan Heights. As the civil war in Syria has spilled over into the   part of the Golan Heights, whether intentionally or not, Israel has openly acknowledged strikes against Syrian government positions in recent years. Israel says it holds Syria responsible for the fire in its part of the Golan Heights. The attacks in response by Israel, as well as its more covert campaign, have generally passed without retaliation from a Syrian government beleaguered by the civil war. Israeli strikes in the Quneitra area in recent weeks have fueled the suspicions of Syrian government supporters that Israel is aiding insurgents  —   including those linked to Al Qaeda  —   near the frontier. SANA reported that the Israeli attack on Tuesday “came in support of the armed terrorist groups and in a desperate attempt to raise the deteriorating morale of their members due to the heavy losses they have suffered in Quneitra. ” While maintaining that its policy is one of noninterference in the Syrian war, Israel has been extending medical help and other humanitarian aid to what it describes as the more moderate rebels across the border.