WASHINGTON  —   A divided Federal Reserve, struggling to decide how soon to prune its economic stimulus campaign, said on Wednesday that it would wait at least a little longer. The Fed left its benchmark interest rate unchanged after a   meeting of its   committee, although most of its officials said they expected to raise rates by the end of the year. Janet L. Yellen, the Fed’s chairwoman, said she saw no reason to rush. The economy keeps bubbling along without boiling over. “We’re generally pleased with how the economy is doing,” she said at a news conference. “The economy has a little more room to run than might have previously been thought. That’s good news. ” But concern is growing among some Fed officials that the central bank is waiting too long to resume moving borrowing costs back toward normal levels. The decision to wait passed by a vote of 7 to 3, the narrowest margin in almost two years. Ms. Yellen said Fed officials had “struggled” to reach a consensus, though she said the disagreement was mostly about a narrow question of timing. The Fed’s latest round of economic projections reflected a broad consensus 14 of the 17 Fed officials surveyed anticipated at least one rate increase this year. “The committee judges that the case for an increase in the federal funds rate has strengthened but decided, for the time being, to wait for further evidence,” the Fed said in its postmeeting statement. The Fed’s next meeting is in November, concluding six days before the presidential election, but the Fed is widely expected to defer any decisions until its final meeting of the year in  . Ms. Yellen said on Wednesday that the Fed would not consider politics in making its decision, but that line, often repeated by Fed officials, is regarded as tactful rather than truthful. Fed officials cited the uncertain consequences of Britain’s vote to leave the European Union as a reason they did not want to raise rates in June. They are unlikely to act on the eve of a presidential election that could have larger economic consequences. “The Fed will not want to be seen as influencing political outcomes,” said Rick Rieder, chief investment officer for global   at BlackRock. Even the decision to wait, however, exposes the Fed to continued attack by Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, who has repeatedly charged that Ms. Yellen is delaying necessary action to help Democrats. Ms. Yellen was pressed repeatedly about the Fed’s motives Wednesday. “I can say emphatically that partisan politics plays no role in our decisions about the appropriate stance of monetary policy,” she said. “We do not discuss politics at our meetings, and we do not take politics into account in our decisions. ” The Fed decided to wait despite an upturn in economic conditions after a weak start to the year. “Growth of economic activity has picked up from the modest pace seen in the first half of the year,” its statement said. It noted consumer spending remained relatively strong, while business investment remained relatively weak, a pattern that continues to defy easy explanation. The Fed also said it now saw the chances of faster growth as “roughly balanced” against the risks of economic disruption, an improvement over its bleaker outlook in recent years. “Our decision does not reflect a lack of confidence in the economy,” Ms. Yellen said. (Ms. Yellen, however, indicated the Fed did not include the presidential election in this assessment. Asked, for example, about the economic consequences of Mr. Trump’s proposal to impose higher tariffs on imports, she declined to answer, calling that a “political issue. ”) So why did the Fed decide to wait? Ms. Yellen said that the growth of the labor market had exceeded the Fed’s expectations while inflation remained sluggish, suggesting the economy had room to grow. One sign of progress is the continuing rebound in the share of American adults in their prime working years, between the ages of 25 and 54, who are working or looking for work. “More people, presumably in response to better employment opportunities and higher wages, have started actively seeking and finding jobs,” Ms. Yellen said. “This is a very welcome development both for the individuals involved and for the nation as a whole. ” The three dissenters, all of whom voted in favor of raising interest rates by a   in September, were Esther L. George, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City Loretta J. Mester, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and Eric S. Rosengren, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The statement did not explain their votes, but all three described their concerns in the weeks before the meeting. Mr. Rosengren, a longtime proponent of the Fed’s stimulus campaign, has become increasingly concerned that the Fed, by waiting too long to raise rates, will need to move more sharply, a pattern that often ends in a recession. The last time three Fed officials dissented from a policy decision was nearly two years ago. Two reserve bank presidents wanted Ms. Yellen to move more quickly to tighten policy, while one dissented in favor of moving more slowly. Notwithstanding the debate about when to take the next step, Fed officials are increasingly agreed that they will not be raising rates for very long. As recently as last September, Fed officials predicted the Fed’s benchmark rate would rise to 3. 4 percent by the end of 2018. On Wednesday they predicted it would reach just 1. 9 percent by that time, and that it would top out at 2. 9 percent. Fed officials are increasingly reconciled to the reality of a downturn in global interest rates that has dampened the force of the Fed’s stimulus campaign even as the Fed stands still. The central bank stimulates the economy by pushing borrowing costs below normal levels. The decline in market borrowing costs means that the normal level has been falling toward the Fed’s rate. The Fed remains in a better position to raise rates than other major central banks, which are struggling to drive up inflation in the face of even lower interest rates and weaker growth. The Bank of Japan tried earlier on Wednesday to reinvigorate its own struggling campaign to bolster inflation, announcing for the first time that it would try to drive inflation above its current 2 percent target. Whether it will succeed is an open question: Despite an aggressive stimulus campaign, now in its fourth year, prices in Japan fell by 0. 5 percent during the most recent   period. The European Central Bank cut its growth and inflation forecasts at its most recent meeting but, like the Bank of Japan, did not increase its stimulus campaign, judging it was doing what it could. Officials at all three banks have suggested that too much is being asked of monetary policy. They argue that fiscal policy makers must embrace some combination of fiscal stimulus and structural reforms to increase growth, a view shared by a wide range of independent economists.