HOBOKEN, N. J.  —   The engineer of the New Jersey Transit train that crashed into Hoboken Terminal on Thursday, killing one person and injuring more than 100 others during the busy morning commute, felt well rested and was unaware of any mechanical problems in the moments before the accident, federal investigators said on Sunday. At a news conference in Hoboken, officials from the National Transportation Safety Board said they had interviewed the engineer, Thomas Gallagher, as well as the train’s conductor, who was not identified, and still were no closer to determining the cause of the crash. It was the first fatal accident on New Jersey Transit trains since 1996, Bella   the vice chairwoman of the safety board, said. Ms.   said that Mr. Gallagher, 48, had no recollection of the accident itself and that the first thing he remembered was waking up on the floor of the cab afterward. She said Mr. Gallagher had told investigators that his cellphone was turned off and stored in a personal backpack, which remains in the cab of the control car. She also said Mr. Gallagher had reported that the train was traveling about 10 miles an hour when it entered Hoboken Terminal  —   a fact that apparently contradicted initial reports that the train was moving at a higher speed. New Jersey Transit announced on Sunday that all rail service in and out of Hoboken Terminal would remain suspended until further notice. However, the   Light Rail line at Hoboken was back in service, the agency said. The investigation into the crash has focused in recent days on retrieving data recorders from the badly damaged train that was carrying about 250 passengers when it failed to stop on the track and plowed through a barrier into a wall at the terminal. Transportation officials said on Sunday that investigators had retrieved one data recorder from the train’s locomotive, but that it was not functioning and had not provided any usable information. Investigators were trying to retrieve a second event recorder from near the front of the train, but it was still too dangerous to enter the area, officials said. The inquiry has also used drone footage and other videotapes to capture aerial images of the train, the officials said. But the investigators still have to determine precisely how fast the train was going when it entered the station. Ms.   would not discuss a separate audit of New Jersey Transit by the Federal Railroad Administration, except to say that it “will definitely be part of our process. ” The audit began in June after railroad officials noticed an increase in safety violations and a leadership vacuum at the top of the agency.