When students at the City College of New York, the flagship of the largest urban public university in the country, showed up for classes on Thursday for the first time since an extended holiday break, they returned to a vastly different campus from the one they left last Friday. That was when the college’s president, Lisa S. Coico, abruptly resigned, a day after The New York Times contacted officials with new questions about her administration’s handling of more than $150, 000 of her personal expenses  —   a subject that is currently being investigated by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn. By the time classes resumed after the break for Columbus Day and Yom Kippur, agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation had been spotted on campus, apparently to interview employees students were burning up social media with “Brace Yourself” memes inspired by the “Game of Thrones” TV series and the chancellor of the City University of New York system had convened emergency meetings to assuage the concerns of shellshocked faculty members and alumni. Small wonder, then, that many students and faculty and staff members interviewed on campus said they felt discombobulated by the torrent of troubling news. “There’s a mood of trepidation,” Ruth E. Stark, a distinguished professor of chemistry, said. “On the one hand, the handling of money has to be looked at carefully, and monitored carefully. But at the same time, I think this is a great concern about the multiplying investigations that will be enveloping us. ” Right now, two investigations are underway. The first is being handled by the office of Robert L. Capers, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York. As part of that inquiry, additional subpoenas were issued in the last few days that, among other things, zeroed in on a memo related to Ms. Coico’s expenses that some college officials believe was fabricated to mislead prosecutors. CUNY, the college’s parent entity, and its Research Foundation, which manages the university’s research funds, were included in the new round of subpoenas. The second investigation is an internal one for CUNY being conducted by Andrew J. Levander, a former federal prosecutor. Soon, a third could be started: William C. Thompson Jr. a former New York City comptroller who is the new chairman of CUNY’s Board of Trustees, has urged the state inspector general to do a systemwide investigation of “all of the college foundations, alumni associations or other affiliated entities including the CUNY Research Foundation. ” The state provides the funding for CUNY’s   senior colleges. Ms. Coico, who has hired a lawyer, has declined to comment. Of more immediate concern at City College, though, is the leadership vacuum. For the next few weeks, the administrator in charge will be Mary E. Driscoll, the college’s new interim provost. The university’s board of trustees is scheduled to meet on Oct. 26 and appoint an interim president. After that, a search will begin for a permanent replacement, with the goal of having someone in place by September. To assure nervous faculty members and others, James B. Milliken, CUNY’s chancellor, visited City College’s Gothic campus early Tuesday morning, when its administrative offices were open, to voice his unwavering support for, and faith in, the college. In an interview, Mr. Milliken said he was encouraged by the shared belief that the college, which has produced 10 Nobel Prize winners and illustrious alumni like the former secretary of state Colin L. Powell and Andrew S. Grove, who was the chief executive and chairman of Intel Corporation, should focus on its future. “Whenever there’s a transition at a leadership level of an institution, particularly one that is fairly abrupt, there is a level of anxiety,” Mr. Milliken said. “That was one reason I wanted to be at City College when they opened the doors, the first day back at the office. We’re going to do everything we can to ensure that they have stable, talented leadership there. ” Many students said they did not have much contact with Ms. Coico, and rarely saw her on campus. Yelina Espinal, a    psychology major, said the only time she saw the former president was during freshman orientation she is now a senior. Still, Ms. Espinal was visibly disgusted with the news about Ms. Coico, as were many other students. “All the rumors about the things she’s done  —   it’s all over Facebook,” she said. “People are already upset about a lot of things on campus with the roofs leaking. Now we learn the extent that the president might be stealing? It’s ridiculous. ” Stephany Baez, 30, who works full time as a waitress while enrolled at the university, said she was offended by accusations that the president was pocketing extra money on top of her generous pay and benefits package, while she herself was struggling to pay for her classes. She also voiced frustration with the facilities, saying that escalators broke down routinely and that bedbugs had recently infested the library. “I’m so upset about this,” she said. “I struggle really hard. To find out that she’s being so greedy and taking advantage of students who are really having a hard time is really disheartening. ”