A South Carolina man charged in the kidnapping of a woman found alive in a storage container confessed on Saturday to the unsolved killings of four people in 2003, and may be linked to a total of seven deaths, the authorities said. Late on Saturday, the Spartanburg County sheriff, Chuck Wright, said that a body found in a shallow grave the day before was that of Charles D. Carver, 32, the boyfriend of the rescued woman, The Associated Press reported. He died of gunshot wounds, Sheriff Wright said. Todd C. Kohlhepp, 45, the owner of the property and a registered sex offender, has been charged with kidnapping the woman, Kala V. Brown, who disappeared along with Mr. Carver in late August. Investigators had been sweeping the   woods and fields with cadaver dogs after finding Ms. Brown inside a storage container on the property, about 20 miles east of Greenville, S. C. The sheriff said there were indications that two other bodies might be buried on the property. In a stunning twist that drew gasps at a news conference, Sheriff Wright said Mr. Kohlhepp had confessed on Saturday to a quadruple homicide on Nov. 6, 2003. The police said four people were killed at the Superbike Motorsports shop in Chesnee, S. C.: Scott Ponder, 30 Beverly Guy, 52, his mother, who worked there part time and Brian Lucas, 29, and Chris Sherbert, 26, who were employees, The Greenville News reported. Sheriff Wright said Mr. Kohlhepp “told us some stuff that nobody ought to know” about the killings. He described Mr. Kohlhepp as “very cooperative. ” He added: “I’m rejoicing that our community can know that four people who were brutally murdered  —   there’s no wondering about it anymore. ” Four murder warrants were signed in connection with the killings in the shop, and a murder charge was pending in the case of Mr. Carver, Sheriff Wright said. The case began to unfold when deputies heard Ms. Brown, 30, banging from inside a storage container on Thursday. At a hearing on Friday during which Mr. Kohlhepp was denied bond, the prosecutor, Barry Barnette, said Ms. Brown had told investigators she saw Mr. Kohlhepp shoot Mr. Carver. Ms. Brown also told the authorities that there might be four people buried on the property, Sheriff Wright said. He added that missing persons’ cases were being reopened in light of the revelations. He said investigators would continue to search other properties owned by Mr. Kohlhepp. Mr. Barnette told Magistrate Judge Daniel R. Burns of Spartanburg County that officials had found “numerous guns, assault rifles, two   handguns with silencers on them” and “rounds of ammo. ” “It’s unbelievable how much he had out there,” Mr. Barnette said. “This individual is a very, very dangerous individual. ” Sheriff Wright said the authorities were also looking for clues online to shed light on what he said had not been a “random act” of kidnapping. The disappearance of Mr. Carver and Ms. Brown had taken a strange turn last month when friends and family noticed that their Facebook accounts had suddenly become active, updated with posts they did not believe had been written by the couple, The Daily Beast reported. On Friday, Sheriff Wright told reporters that investigators were trying to figure out whether Mr. Kohlhepp or another person had published the posts. Mr. Kohlhepp, of Moore, S. C. sold real estate and had a landscaping business, Sheriff Wright said. He was convicted at age 15 in Arizona in the kidnapping and rape of a    girl at gunpoint, Mr. Barnette told the court.