WASHINGTON  —   Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who ran an outsider’s campaign for the Republican presidential nomination and later backed Donald J. Trump, is likely to be chosen as secretary of housing and urban development, according to a person close to the Trump transition, suggesting that the   is seeking diversity in an administration that has started off predominantly white and male. Mr. Carson would be the first   member of Mr. Trump’s cabinet  —   and a familiar face to millions of Americans after a Republican primary campaign in which he briefly soared to the top of the polls. Mr. Trump has begun meeting with a wider array of prospects, either for advice or as potential cabinet picks. He is also considering Harold Ford Jr. an   former Democratic representative from Tennessee, for transportation secretary or another post, though that process has not yet become serious, a Trump official said. Interviewed on Tuesday on the Fox News program “Your World With Neil Cavuto,” Mr. Carson said the   had offered him multiple positions in his cabinet. Asked specifically about the housing job, he replied, “I would say that it was one of the offers on the table. ” Mr. Carson’s job prospects had gotten somewhat lost in the recent flurry of speculation about key national security positions, as well as his own misgivings about his qualifications. But on Tuesday, Mr. Carson thrust himself back into the spotlight, with an assist from Mr. Trump. “I am seriously considering Dr. Ben Carson as the head of HUD,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter, using the acronym for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. “I’ve gotten to know him well  —   he’s a greatly talented person who loves people!” In recent days, Mr. Trump has broadened the list of people he is consulting to include Michelle Rhee, a former District of Columbia schools chancellor Representative Tulsi Gabbard, the Hawaii Democrat who is the first Hindu member of Congress and Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, an  . Mr. Ford, with whom he has not yet met, is a regular commentator on the MSNBC show “Morning Joe,” whose host, Joe Scarborough, Mr. Trump regularly calls for advice. So far, however, his picks have consisted of five white men: Stephen K. Bannon as chief strategist in the White House, Reince Priebus as chief of staff, Senator Jeff Sessions as attorney general, Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser, and Representative Mike Pompeo as director of the C. I. A. Mr. Trump is also rumored to be close to naming Gen. James N. Mattis as secretary of defense. While not as vocal as other supporters like Rudolph W. Giuliani or Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Mr. Carson has been a steadfast backer of Mr. Trump. He went on television to defend him after the release of an “Access Hollywood” tape in which Mr. Trump spoke about groping women. But his last job was as director of pediatric neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins University, and he has little background in housing. In the Fox interview, Mr. Carson cited his childhood in Detroit and his experience treating   patients as qualifications for the job. “I grew up in the inner city,” he said, “and have spent a lot of time there and have dealt with a lot of patients from that area and recognize that we cannot have a strong nation if we have weak inner cities, and we have to get beyond the promises and start really doing something. ” “You know, our inner cities are in terrible shape, and they definitely need some real attention,” Mr. Carson continued. “You know, there have been so many promises made over the last several decades, and nothing has been done, so it certainly is something that has been a   interest of mine, and I’ll be thinking and praying about it seriously over the holiday. ” Mr. Carson’s remarks were a striking reversal from last week, when a friend of his said he had turned down an offer from Mr. Trump to be secretary of health and human services, citing his lack of experience in running a vast federal bureaucracy. “Dr. Carson feels he has no government experience, he’s never run a federal agency,” his friend Armstrong Williams told The Hill newspaper. “The last thing he would want to do was take a position that could cripple the presidency. ” The Department of Housing and Urban Development, which was established by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965, had 8, 416 employees and an annual budget of $32. 6 billion as of 2014. On his own Facebook page, Mr. Carson has said he would prefer to remain an outside adviser to Mr. Trump. “My decision not to seek a cabinet position in the Trump administration has nothing to do with the complexity of the job, as is being reported by some news outlets,” Mr. Carson said. “I believe it is vitally important for the Trump administration to have many outspoken friends and advisers who are outside of the Washington bubble. ” The relationship between Mr. Carson and Mr. Trump has had its ups and downs. Before the primaries, when Mr. Carson was riding high in the polls, Mr. Trump accused his rival of having a “pathological temper. ” He based his accusation on a passage in “Gifted Hands,” Mr. Carson’s autobiography, in which he described having a strong temper and said that when he became angry, “I grabbed the nearest brick, rock or stick to bash someone. ” During the debates, however, Mr. Trump generally spared Mr. Carson the cutting remarks he aimed at Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. Later, when Mr. Carson endorsed Mr. Trump, he conceded that it was difficult to reconcile the bombastic figure on the trail with what he described as a more thoughtful person behind closed doors. “There’s the one you see on the stage,” Mr. Carson said, “and there’s the one who’s very cerebral, sits there and considers things very carefully. ”