Since Election Day,   Donald J. Trump has proposed a   in American diplomatic relations with Cuba, boasted about negotiations with a major manufacturer, trumpeted false claims about millions of illegal votes and hinted that he might upend current free speech laws by banning flag burning. All in 140 characters or less. As news organizations grapple with covering a commander in chief unlike any other, Mr. Trump’s Twitter account  —   a bully pulpit, propaganda weapon and attention magnet all rolled into one  —   has quickly emerged as a fresh journalistic challenge and a source of lively debate. How to cover a president’s pronouncements when they are both provocative and maddeningly vague? Does an   tweet amount to a planned shift in American policy? Should news outlets, as some readers argue, ignore clearly untrue tweets, rather than amplify falsehoods further? In interviews on Tuesday, political editors and reporters said that, for now, they planned to apply the same news judgment they would apply to any statement by a powerful leader, even as some acknowledged that social media allows Mr. Trump to reduce complicated subjects to snappy, and sometimes misleading, slogans and sound bites. “Reporting complex policy issues out of tweets, I would say that’s not ideal,” said Carrie Budoff Brown, the newly installed editor of Politico, adding: “We have to treat it as one piece of a bigger reporting puzzle that we have to put together. ” But fundamentally, she said, the thoughts of a   are inherently newsworthy  —   as long as journalists also provide readers with the right context, like whether a proposal is feasible or legal, or correct a baseless claim. “This is the way he’s communicating with millions upon millions of people, and as journalists we can’t ignore that,” Ms. Brown said. Some readers disagree. On social media, there have been calls for news outlets to boycott covering Mr. Trump’s tweets entirely. Critics say that any coverage elevates unsubstantiated assertions and murky policy suggestions. “Media would be wise to stop   of Trump’s tweets  —   they distract, distort and debase,” Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor and publisher of The Nation, said in a Twitter post on Tuesday. The historian Fred Kaplan declared, “It’s time to ignore his tweets,” echoing others who wondered whether Mr. Trump’s provocative statements were a deliberate effort to distract journalists. Part of the concern is that Mr. Trump’s Twitter posts can have a ripple effect in the media ecosystem. Producers of morning shows and newspaper assignment editors wake up to   statements from the future leader of the free world those remarks sometimes dominate coverage for hours. Even if journalists insert caveats or clearly label a statement as false, the remarks still reach a large audience. But many veteran journalists argue that keeping the public in the dark about their president’s comments would be a worse sin. “Anything that a president would say  —   even if it was libelous or scandalous  —   it’s the president talking, and I think you report it,” said Chris Wallace, the “Fox News Sunday” host who moderated this year’s third presidential debate. “Under any definition, it’s news, whether it’s sensible or not, factual or not, productive or not. ” Mr. Wallace recalled that as a reporter in Washington, he reported   from President Ronald Reagan as he boarded a helicopter to Camp David. “As far as I’m concerned, this is like Donald Trump making a statement on the way to the helicopter,” Mr. Wallace said of the  ’s tweets. Handling Mr. Trump’s Twitter account has been a hot topic in big newsrooms. Matthew Purdy, a deputy managing editor at The New York Times, said on Tuesday that the Mr. Trump’s remarks had to be assessed one by one. “Clearly his tweets are a window into policy decisions or his state of mind,” Mr. Purdy said in an interview. “Just because he tweets it doesn’t make it news. But just because he tweets it doesn’t make it frivolous either. ” Steven Ginsberg, senior politics editor at The Washington Post, agreed. “My view, frankly, is that everybody is getting way too caught up with the fact that he’s tweeting,” he said, adding that even if Mr. Trump “shouts something on a street corner, I think it’s worth taking up on its own merits. ” “In this postelection period, anything he says in any way you have to consider it and you have to weigh whether it deserves a story,” Mr. Ginsberg said. At some publications, the calculus about coverage is more about the resources on hand. At The Los Angeles Times, covering every Twitter post would prevent reporters from focusing on other political issues, like the future of the Affordable Care Act. “We’ve got a smaller staff than some other folks do, so I’m sure there have been ones that we’ve passed on,” said David Lauter, the paper’s Washington bureau chief. Still, Mr. Trump’s tweets have become particularly intriguing. Typically,   hold news conferences after the election  —   but Mr. Trump has not, offering few opportunities for journalists to question him about plans for his administration. (He has granted interviews to “60 Minutes,” The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times.) “These pronouncements on Twitter are the only available evidence of what the man is thinking, or wants us to think he’s thinking,” said Todd Gitlin, a former political activist who has criticized press coverage of Mr. Trump. There is also a novelty factor. American presidents, aware that their words carry gravity and consequence worldwide, are typically circumspect in their remarks, opting for dry statements and withholding major proposals until a legislative or legal framework is in place. Mr. Trump seems to relish doing the opposite, as he did throughout the election season. Jack Shafer, who writes about the media for Politico, said that journalists could ultimately best serve the public by being judicious in the way they report on Mr. Trump’s tweets. “I think that you starve the troll by just pointing out that the troll is lying and the troll is trolling,” Mr. Shafer said. “Don’t ignore him, but hold him accountable when he tweets for effect. ” Some have speculated that come January, Mr. Trump may rely less on Twitter, once he moves into the White House and has the Oval Office and West Wing briefing room at his disposal. But asked about this on Tuesday, Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, issued a reply: Don’t bet on it. “  Trump has amassed an incredible social media following, one he used very effectively throughout the campaign to communicate his message,” Ms. Hicks said in an email. “He intends to continue utilizing this modern form of communication, while taking into account his new role and responsibilities may call for modified usage. ” For now, Ms. Hicks declined to say if Mr. Trump would move his musings to the White House’s official @POTUS Twitter account. As of Tuesday, @POTUS had 12. 3 million followers. And @realDonaldTrump? 16. 3 million.