(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1.   Donald Trump announced on Twitter that he would take steps to separate from his business empire. The Office of Government Ethics said only a divestiture of his financial stake in his real estate business would resolve ethical concerns about conflicts of interest. Mr Trump also unveiled his economic team of investment titans. His secretary of the Treasury, Steven Mnuchin, above, promised sizable corporate tax cuts in an appearance on CNBC. Sarah Palin is being considered for Veterans Affairs. Next up: Rallies in states that were crucial to his victory, beginning in Cincinnati. One of the stops will be at a  plant in Indiana run by Carrier, which decided against moving about 1, 000 jobs to Mexico after pressure from Mr. Trump. ____ 2. Do we have to report everything Mr. Trump tweets? Typically,   hold news conferences after the election. Mr. Trump has not, instead exhibiting an unprecedented reliance on social media. Editors and reporters said they planned to apply the same news judgment to tweets they would to any statement by a powerful leader. But they acknowledged that the medium allows Mr. Trump to reduce complicated subjects to snappy and sometimes misleading slogans. ____ 3. Nancy Pelosi retained her post as the Democratic leader in the House of Representatives, but about a third of House Democrats voted for her challenger, Tim Ryan, a    Ohioan from a   district. After a dismal Election Day for Democrats, the fight for the role had become a proxy battle for the future of the party. ____ 4. A Charlotte, N. C. police officer will not face charges in the fatal shooting in September of a black resident, Keith Lamont Scott, above. The killing set off days of unrest. Mr. Scott’s wife recorded the confrontation, in which she yells that he is unarmed. But prosecutors said Mr. Scott was, after all, carrying a handgun. ____ 5. OPEC agreed to cut oil production for the first time in eight years. But for the   deal to work,   member Russia must cooperate. While the announcement sent oil prices soaring, they’re nowhere near historic highs. Above right, the Saudi energy minister at the group’s meeting in Vienna. ____ 6. The chartered plane that crashed in Colombia, killing almost all aboard, including members of a Brazilian soccer team, may have run out of fuel. In a recording circulating on Colombian media, the pilot pleaded for immediate landing rights, telling an air traffic controller that the plane was “in total failure, total electrical failure, without fuel. ” Above, a tribute to the team at its stadium in Chapeco, Brazil. ____ 7. Drug regulators approved   clinical trials to study MDMA, the illegal party drug better known as Ecstasy, as treatment for   stress disorder. “It changed my life,” said the veteran above, who had PTSD after three tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. “It allowed me to see my trauma without fear or hesitation and finally process things and move forward. ” ____ 8. Snapchat’s parent company, Snap, is headed for a blockbuster I. P. O. It has overtaken Twitter in terms of daily users, and its new gadget is selling fast: sunglasses, above, that record video clips. The service is still frequently dismissed by people over 25. If you are one of them, our tech writer says it’s time to reconsider. ___ 9. We asked five writers and showrunners who have worked on programs like “Homeland” and “Quantico” about whether TV can be fair to Muslims. The takeaways: There’s an oversize appetite for stories about terrorism, and not enough diversity in the industry. “When   are writing for some characters, it either becomes they’re terrorists or they’re so P. C. that they end up writing sanctified characters, who are so good and so ” said the actor Aasif Mandvi, formerly of “The Daily Show. ” ____ 10. Chronic insomniacs, take heart. New online programs that use cognitive behavior therapy helped more than half of the subjects in a study within weeks. ___ 11. Finally, British vegetarians are furious. The Bank of England confirmed that tallow, which is made from beef or mutton fat, was used in the more durable   bills it introduced recently. “Being forced to pay taxes to contribute to animal products is a breach of rights,” one vegan wrote on Twitter. “Shut. up. omnivores. You have no say in this. ” Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.