For Frank Vincenti, there is a certain truth to those old Warner Bros. cartoons in which Wile E. Coyote, scheming but hapless, always takes the fall in pursuing the speedy Road Runner. “You know, that cartoon is really correct  —   Wile E. Coyote and the real thing are not that much different,” said Mr. Vincenti, a barber by vocation, but also a   advocate for urban coyotes. “Coyotes are always going to be controversial animals, but they get an undeserved reputation. ” By day, he gives $10 haircuts at his shop in Mineola, N. Y. but by night, he transforms into a coyote whisperer, dedicated to saving coyotes in and around New York City and to challenging the perception that the animals are too dangerous to coexist with people in urban and suburban areas. After spying a coyote in the Bronx, Mr. Vincenti started the Wild Dog Foundation in 1996, a nonprofit that protects coyotes. When he hears of a sighting, he closes his barbershop and heads to the scene. He may spend all night working as a human scarecrow, chasing the coyotes back into the underbrush. The goal is to keep them out of the public view and away from the traps set by specialists hired to euthanize them. On a recent weeknight, he closed his shop and drove to an area near La Guardia Airport where a family of coyotes had settled in the woodsy patches near the bridge leading to the Rikers Island jail complex. Officials from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which runs the airport, deemed the coyotes a danger to users of a nearby parking lot for airport employees and notified federal officials to have the coyotes removed. Since the fall, coyotes have been continually trapped and euthanized, despite Mr. Vincenti’s preventive efforts. “You want to know the irony of all this?” he said, gesturing toward Rikers Island. “You got accused murderers and rapists over there, and the government is afraid of a family of coyotes. ” Pacing the narrow visitors parking lot for Rikers, he recounted how by early last year, three adult coyotes had settled here, which led to a litter of eight pups roaming the area by July. “The coyotes were like mascots  —   people were driving by, taking pictures like they were on safari,” said Mr. Vincenti, who showed up every night to chase the coyotes back into cover. “You don’t want them just walking around in the open because that unnerves people. ” Lobbying for the coyotes to remain, he handed out fliers and assured local residents that the animals were not looking for confrontations. He approached parents at Little League games and told them the coyotes scared off geese and hunted rats. Pushed by swelling coyote populations upstate, some coyotes have inhabited wooded sections of the Bronx for 20 years, Mr. Vincenti said. There are active dens under the Whitestone Bridge and in Pelham Bay and Van Cortlandt Parks, he said. The adult coyotes near Rikers may have wandered down from the Bronx over the Hell Gate Bridge, which carries only sporadic freight train traffic. Mr. Vincenti said their puppies may have been the first born on geographic Long Island in centuries. He had hoped they would eventually migrate to eastern Long Island, but by last week, trappers had managed to kill all but one of the coyotes. “The coyotes had no chance,” he said. “My efforts were too little too late. I’m one man, on my own dime and my own time, and I had a lot of people against me. ” He stood by his car. It had a coyote rescue placard on the dashboard and a stuffed coyote dangling from the rearview mirror. Looking for the remaining pup, he examined tracks near a bicycle parking area. On Monday, he was back in his shop, which his   opened in 1925. Mr. Vincenti said he began cutting hair there at 13. The walls were covered not with photos of hairstyles but with images of coyotes and other animals. Mr. Vincenti has carved out an underdog role, not unlike the coyote. He is short in stature but with an outsize personality and tenacity. Mr. Vincenti’s coyote advocacy seems thankless. He sets up tables at events and gives talks at local libraries, often facing residents who consider the coyotes a threat to their children and pets. Mr. Vincenti, who is married with a    son, is a   history buff and a fan of Napoleon. During slow times in the barbershop, he plows through history books, educates himself on wildlife issues and dreams of making a living protecting coyotes instead of cutting hair. The euthanized coyote family left him discouraged, but he could already hear the next coyote calling, in the form of a sighting near Farmers Boulevard in Queens. Once again, the Road Runner cartoon proved correct. “Wile E. Coyote always loses,” he said, “but no matter how they try to kill him off, he always comes back. ”