Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • Russia has acknowledged that its officials carried out one of the biggest conspiracies in sports history: a   doping operation that tainted the entire Olympic movement. “It was an institutional conspiracy,” said Anna Antseliovich, the acting director general of Russia’s national antidoping agency. But she and others continued to deny that the government’s top officials were involved. _____ • In a show of defiance toward   Donald J. Trump, who has belittled the notion of global warming, California’s governor, Jerry Brown (above at his family ranch) and legislative leaders say they will work directly with nations and other U. S. states to fight climate change. Mr. Trump’s inauguration on Jan. 20 is shaping up to be a challenge, with security officials worried that protesters will flood the capital, along with what may be nearly a million supporters of Mr. Trump. Thomas P. Bossert, a top national security aide under President George W. Bush, will be Mr. Trump’s adviser for homeland security and counterterrorism. _____ • Carrie Fisher, the actress and author who brought a rare combination of nerve, grit and hopefulness to her most indelible role, as Princess Leia in the “Star Wars” movies, died at 60. Here’s a look at Ms. Fisher’s life beyond the intergalactic franchise. Our critic says her legacy “may rest at least as much on her literary voice” as on any character she played onscreen. _____ • Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan visited Pearl Harbor with President Obama, offering repentance but not apologizing for his country’s attack in 1941. “We must never repeat the horrors of war again,” Mr. Abe said. The alliance between the former enemies may soon be tested by Mr. Trump, who has grumbled about Japanese trade barriers and the cost of U. S. military support. _____ • The wealthiest members of the extended Saudi royal family own French chateaus, stash money in Swiss bank accounts, wear couture dresses under their abayas and frolic on some of the world’s biggest yachts. But decreased oil revenue is straining the economy and forcing questions about whether the family can maintain its lavish lifestyle and its unchallenged grip on Saudi Arabia. _____ • The Consumer Confidence Index in the United States shot to its highest level since   driven by high expectations for the economy under Mr. Trump. • Luxembourg has tightened tax rules, bowing to E. U. pressure to crack down on corporate tax avoidance. • Gazprom, the Russian state energy giant, filed proposals with the European Commission aimed at resolving an antitrust inquiry into how it sells natural gas on the Continent. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Russia is grappling with an H. I. V. epidemic, with diagnosed infections surpassing the one million mark this year. [The New York Times] • Britain says it will counter voter fraud by requiring voters to show identification. [The New York Times] • Secretary of State John Kerry is expected to outline the Obama administration’s vision of a final   accord in a speech today. [The New York Times] • Romania’s president, Klaus Iohannis, has yet to explain why he rejected the nomination of Sevil Shhaideh, an economist, for prime minister. She would have been the first Muslim and the first woman to hold the office. [The New York Times] • China’s decision to deploy an aircraft carrier in the contested South China Sea is seen by some analysts as a challenge to Mr. Trump. [The New York Times] • Three American senators are in the Baltics to reassure allies that the U. S. remains committed to NATO. Their next stops are Ukraine and Georgia. [The New York Times] • A Dutch medical center said the eggs of up to 26 women may have been fertilized by the wrong sperm at its in vitro fertilization laboratory. [Agence  ] • Finishing touches are being applied to the Europa, the new European Union headquarters in Brussels. [The New York Times] • And here’s the story of how a Norwegian diplomat mediated peace talks between Afghanistan and the Taliban. [The New York Times] • Olympic glory and defeat at the Rio Games, the death of Muhammad Ali and a baseball prospect turned hit man: Have a look at our top sports stories of the year. • Americans’ cultural divide  is as pronounced as their political divide. Their TV preferences confirm that. • Bob Bradley, the first American to lead a soccer team in England’s Premier League, was fired by Swansea. • In memoriam: Richard Adams, the British author of “Watership Down” the French comedian Claude Gensac, best known for her film acting alongside Louis de Funès and Heinrich Schiff, the Austrian cellist and conductor. • Inuit in Greenland may have gene variants that help them tolerate the cold, a new study suggests. If your gene pool is less fortunate, here are seven tips for making it through this winter. • A bird and his goggles: Meet Obi, a Pacific parrot at Stanford University trained to fly through laser beams, to help researchers study bird flight. This year has produced some momentous events, so let’s take a moment and look back at some of the words they inspired. Britain’s decision to leave the European Union started many discussions about “ ” politics. Its rise in use prompted Oxford University Press to name it word of the year. “Postfaktisch” is Germany’s top word of 2016, according to the Society for the German Language. The organization, a   agency, bases its yearly choices on significance, rather than frequency. Third place went to “Silvesternacht,” or New Year’s Eve, which has taken an unpleasant meaning since hundreds of women in a German city were attacked as they celebrated the end of 2015. Across the Atlantic,   chose “surreal,” which it says was trending in moments of crisis this year. People who saw “The Lobster,” including our movie critic, used it in the original sense, to describe artistic expression, too. But a word Austria is celebrating stands out among them all. The yearlong campaign for the presidency, which nearly gave the country its first   leader since World War II, was the basis for the “postponement of the repeat runoff of the election of the federal president. ” It’s otherwise known as “Bundespräsidentenstichwahlwiederholungsverschiebung. ” Palko Karasz contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes. com.