SAN JOSE, Calif.  —   Much of Game 6 of the Stanley Cup finals was part hockey, part speedskating. When it was over on Sunday night, the Pittsburgh Penguins had their second title in eight years and their fourth in franchise history, defeating the San Jose Sharks,  . What turned out to be the winning goal typified the   skill on display throughout the series. The Pittsburgh captain Sidney Crosby fed defenseman Kris Letang for a   low in the right   circle that found its way into the San Jose net at 7 minutes 46 seconds of the second period. And despite encouragement from the spirited crowd inside SAP Center for the Sharks’ first appearance in the Stanley Cup finals in their   history, San Jose could not find the equalizer before Penguins forward Patric Hornqvist scored an insurance goal into an empty net with 1:02 left in the third period. The game ended when Crosby cleared the puck the length of the ice with San Jose on a power play, and then the celebration began. “Man, I’m going to remember this day for the rest of my entire life,” said the rookie Penguins goaltender Matthew Murray, who faced only 19 shots in the clinching game. Murray, who is 22, added: “I probably won’t believe this until next year, to be honest. It’s so surreal. ” Crosby, who had 19 postseason points, was awarded the Conn Smythe Trophy, which is given to the most valuable player of the playoffs. During his postgame media conference, he drew comparisons with the first cup he won in 2009, his fourth of 11 seasons in the league. “I have a greater appreciation this time around,” the    Crosby said, noting that after    appearances in the finals in 2008 and 2009, “you just think it’s going to be an annual thing. ” “With the core we have,” he added, “you think everyone’s going to stay together, the team’s not going to change. But it does. ” None of Pittsburgh’s four Stanley Cup wins have come on home ice. Although the Stanley Cup presentation was made inside SAP Center by N. H. L. Commissioner Gary Bettman, thousands of Penguins supporters were able to celebrate at a watch party inside Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh. Center Evgeni Malkin said the championship felt as good as the 2009 title, and he was not surprised that it took so long to win it again. “It’s not easy to win in this league. They have 30 good teams,” Malkin said. “We played against a tough San Jose team, and they not win in 25 years. It’s not easy. San Jose a great team, great coaches. But it’s tough to win. I’m glad finally we win. ” Malkin added: “We did a great job. Actually, tonight we worked so hard, we deserved to win. ” For the fifth time in the six games, the Penguins opened the scoring. With Sharks forward Dainius Zubrus in the penalty box for tripping, Brian Dumoulin’s shot from the left point eluded San Jose goaltender Martin Jones at 8:16 of the first period. Jones, who made 24 saves, was more formidable later in the period, however, making two quick saves on Crosby in a   span after a Sharks giveaway. The Sharks tied the game,   at 6:27 of the second period when center Logan Couture used Penguins defenseman Justin Schultz as a screen and beat Murray with a   wrist shot. The goal was Couture’s 30th point of the playoffs, the best in the league. But Letang answered 79 seconds later, and San Jose could not draw even again. The Sharks, who finished third in the Pacific Division, fell short of their goal, but they went a long way toward erasing their reputation as playoff underachievers with wins over the Los Angeles Kings, the Nashville Predators and the St. Louis Blues. “I’m very proud of our group,” Sharks Coach Peter DeBoer said. “I thought our guys emptied the tank, gave us everything they possibly could. We weren’t as good as them during this   period. ” The challenge Pittsburgh presented went beyond their   team speed, he added. “They have good sticks, too. They force you into quicker decisions. They really challenge your execution. We hadn’t seen pressure and sticks like that through the first three rounds. ” Pittsburgh had entered the playoffs as the No. 2 seed in the Metropolitan Division, defeating the Rangers, the Washington Capitals and the Tampa Bay Lightning en route to the finals. The Penguins righted their season after Mike Sullivan replaced Mike Johnston on Dec. 12 as coach when the team was near . 500. “We changed style,” Malkin said of the coaching change. “Before, we played more   now we played in offensive zone. We use our legs. We skate with puck, we skate without puck. Always skating. ”