Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said Wednesday that he would run for   abandoning plans to pursue a more lucrative career in the private sector and jolting a competitive race that is crucial to Democrats’ plans to retake control of the Senate. Mr. Rubio, 45, who had told associates of his reluctance to give up the high profile and political power that a Senate seat offers, will enter the race with the formidable advantages of incumbency, national name recognition and strong ties to the Republican Party’s donor base. But he faces numerous hurdles, the most difficult of which may be his history of talking down the Senate as unfulfilling and frustrating at times. He is also coming off a bruising run for president that ended with an embarrassing   loss to Donald J. Trump in his home state on March 15  —   a contest that focused in no small part on Mr. Rubio’s frequent absence from the Senate and from his duties in Florida as he campaigned nationally. In a preview of what is expected to be one of the most bitter and most expensive Senate races in the country, within minutes of Mr. Rubio’s announcement on Wednesday, Democrats accused him of political opportunism and hypocrisy. Mr. Rubio is not expected to have much difficulty in the Republican primary, where a few contenders have withdrawn, but he still faces several   opponents. In November he will probably be challenged by Representative Patrick Murphy, a    congressman whom Republicans have mocked as young, overambitious and lacking in accomplishment  —   attributes that Democrats have pinned on Mr. Rubio. Political handicappers have rated the seat as a tossup, though Mr. Rubio’s decision to run probably improved Republicans’ chances of keeping the seat and their control of the Senate. “He has breathed new life into the G. O. P. ’s chances of holding the seat,” said Jennifer Duffy of the Cook Political Report. “But that doesn’t mean that he has become anything more than the very slightest of favorites in November. ” Mr. Rubio had been flirting with the idea of running for weeks amid intense pressure from Republican Party leaders, who assured him of their full political and financial backing. He finally declared his intentions on Wednesday, and later issued a statement acknowledging his   by saying, “In politics, admitting you’ve changed your mind is not something most people like to do. ” “I have often said that the U. S. Senate can be a frustrating place. And it’s true,” he added. But he said the Senate had the vital role of checking the executive branch. As for Mr. Trump, Mr. Rubio said: “If he is elected, we will need senators willing to encourage him in the right direction, and if necessary, stand up to him. I’ve proven a willingness to do both. ” Mr. Rubio has told colleagues and advisers that he is considering running for president again, in 2020 or 2024. And as he and his team weighed a   campaign, they debated how well situated he would be in once more seeking the presidency from the Senate. A highly strategic politician with a restless personality, Mr. Rubio worried about a diminished profile if he faded from national politics into a career of paid speechmaking, his advisers said. But he also considered how being a senator would constrain him if he ultimately decided to seek the presidency again. His duties in Washington restricted his ability to raise money and to campaign as much as did some of his rivals who were not current office holders, such as former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. And he frequently had to defend himself against accusations that he was furthering his aspirations at the expense of his constituents. For those reasons, a senior adviser argued Wednesday that Mr. Rubio’s decision should not be seen as motivated by national ambitions. “Marco’s decision to seek   is about wanting to serve Florida, not about presidential politics,” said Todd Harris, who has served on Mr. Rubio’s campaigns for Senate and president. “Because if anything, from a 2020 political standpoint, this creates more problems than opportunities. ” That concern was borne out quickly on Wednesday. American Bridge, a Democratic opposition research group, accused Mr. Rubio of “cutting corners and avoiding hard work” and said, “Florida won’t   him to continue skipping out on the job. ” Indeed, according to people who have spoken with him in recent days, Mr. Rubio was especially concerned about the effect that Mr. Trump’s candidacy could have on his chances of winning. A poor performance in the November general election by Mr. Trump against Hillary Clinton in Florida, with its large Hispanic population, could hurt Mr. Rubio. Like a political hall of mirrors, Mr. Rubio’s decision abruptly scrambled the political alignments that had taken shape during the Republican primary fight. Mr. Trump, whom Mr. Rubio once belittled as a con artist with small hands and an orange face, has endorsed his bid, writing last month on Twitter, “Run Marco!” Mr. Rubio has since said that he would support Mr. Trump and even speak at the Republican National Convention if asked. And another rival who fought bitterly with Mr. Rubio during the primaries, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, on Wednesday greeted Mr. Rubio’s announcement by calling him “a powerful voice for the American dream. ”