WASHINGTON  —   The Supreme Court’s immigration ruling is a defeat for President Obama but could help Hillary Clinton and the fortunes of Democratic candidates across the country. The court on Thursday blocked Mr. Obama from moving ahead with his sweeping assertion of executive authority and will force him to leave office next year without the major progress he promised to millions of Latino immigrants living under the threat of deportation. But even as Republicans hailed what they called a major victory, Democrats said they believed the ruling would energize a nationwide voter registration drive intended to benefit Mrs. Clinton in her presidential campaign against Donald J. Trump. Within moments of the court’s   order, Democratic activists vowed to mobilize, and a president whose face was etched with disappointment acknowledged the issue now rested with voters. “We’ve got a choice about who we’re going to be as a country, what we want to teach our kids, and how we want to be represented in Congress, and in the White House,” Mr. Obama told reporters on Thursday morning. “Americans are going to have to make a decision about what we care about and who we are. ” The ruling could also serve as political ammunition for Mr. Trump, who has accused Mrs. Clinton of wanting to expand what the Republican presumptive nominee calls the president’s illegal “amnesty” for immigrants. Mr. Trump denounced Mexican immigrants while announcing his campaign and has vowed to build a wall on the border. The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, described the deadlocked court ruling as a vindication of the Republican view that Mr. Obama had abused his authority in ordering immigration changes affecting as many as five million unauthorized immigrants. The speaker called it “another major victory in our fight to restore the separation of powers. ” But that optimism may not carry over to the campaign trail. Steve Schale, a Democratic strategist in Florida, one of the most competitive battleground states, predicted that the court’s ruling would help unite Hispanic voters behind Mrs. Clinton. He said she could win as much as 70 percent of Hispanic votes in the state, compared with the 60 percent Mr. Obama won in 2012. Immigration is “sort of like a basic  ” test with Hispanic voters, Mr. Schale said, adding that Hispanics are tuning out Mr. Trump because of his labeling of immigration reform as “amnesty” and his promise to deport millions of immigrants who are in the country illegally. The “super PACs” the Latino Victory Fund and Priorities USA immediately announced a   online ad campaign aimed at bolstering support among immigrant voters in Colorado, Nevada and Florida. Ben Monterroso, the executive director of Mi Familia Vota, a separate nonprofit group that registers voters in six states with high Hispanic populations, said the ruling was the latest provocation that would increase turnout. “The road to the White House goes through the Latino community,” said Mr. Monterroso, whose group enrolled 18, 440 new voters in the first three months of 2016. Democrats and Republicans alike said the ruling all but ensured an even sharper clash over immigration during the presidential campaign. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump quickly issued statements on Thursday that agreed on only one point: The outcome of the presidential election will determine the direction of the nation’s immigration laws. “The election and the Supreme Court appointments that come with it will decide whether or not we have a border and, hence, a country,” Mr. Trump said in his statement, accusing his opponent of pledging to “expand Obama’s executive amnesty. ” Mrs. Clinton said the ruling showed “us all just how high the stakes are” because Mr. Trump has “called for creating a deportation force to tear 11 million people away from their families and their homes. ” There are an estimated 11 million immigrants in the United States illegally. The Clinton campaign has long planned an aggressive effort to mobilize the estimated 27 million eligible Hispanic voters nationwide. Lorella Praeli, the campaign’s Latino vote director, said the court ruling Thursday will add to Latino anger about Mr. Trump for comments like calling a federal judge unfit to preside in a case against Mr. Trump because of his   heritage. In comments throughout the day, Mrs. Clinton sought to embrace those voters. “My heart is really breaking for the five million people in this country who’ve been waiting for the decision,” Mrs. Clinton said in an interview with Telemundo. For Mr. Obama, the court’s ruling ends his hope that his administration would be able to carry out his executive orders allowing nearly five million illegal immigrants to “come out of the shadows” and work legally. It freezes his actions for the rest of his term, leaving the program’s future, and millions of unauthorized workers, in limbo. Instead, one of the president’s chief immigration legacies will be the years of raids in immigrant communities and the increased enforcement he ordered at the border with Mexico. The tough tactics did not lead to a compromise with Republicans on legislation, and the aggressive actions, mostly in Mr. Obama’s first term, enraged families separated by the raids and deportations. The court ruling does not undo changes ordered by Mr. Obama that require immigration officers to focus on deporting unauthorized immigrants who commit crimes or who repeatedly try to enter the United States illegally. The officers have been directed not to move against   illegal immigrants who have lived here for years. The court’s decision also will not affect actions Mr. Obama took in 2012 to help the   Dreamers, young immigrants who were brought illegally to the United States as small children. Under his program, more than 730, 000 Dreamers received documents allowing them to work legally, without fear that they might be sent home. Mr. Obama’s 2014 executive actions came after years of fighting to get Congress to act. In 2013, the Senate passed a bipartisan immigration overhaul that the administration said the president could support. But House Republicans blocked any consideration of the legislation and accused the Senate and Mr. Obama of supporting amnesty for the millions of illegal immigrants in the United States. For most of his presidency, even Mr. Obama said he did not have the power to act unilaterally. He repeatedly told Hispanic activists that he could not use the Dreamers program as a model to expand similar protections to a much larger pool of illegal immigrants. “If we start broadening that, then essentially I would be ignoring the law in a way that I think would be very difficult to defend legally,” Mr. Obama told José   in an interview in September 2013, after it was clear that House Republicans were blocking the Senate’s immigration measure. “So that’s not an option. ” But the pressure from Hispanic activists only increased. (The head of the nation’s largest Latino advocacy organization once called Mr. Obama the “deporter in chief. ”) By the summer of 2014, the president had ordered Jeh Johnson, the homeland security chief, to lead a legal team in reassessing how much power Mr. Obama had to act. In remarks at the White House on Nov. 20, 2014, the president made it clear that he had reversed himself. “The actions I’m taking are not only lawful, they’re the kinds of actions taken by every single Republican president and every single Democratic president for the past ” Mr. Obama said at the time.