PARIS  —   French technicians have successfully downloaded the cockpit voice recordings from the EgyptAir plane that crashed into the Mediterranean Sea in May, investigators said Saturday, raising hopes that the information the recordings contain will soon put an end to the intense speculation about what caused the disaster. The recordings, along with the contents of the jet’s flight data recorder that were salvaged in a laboratory near Paris this past week, will be returned to Cairo for further analysis, an   crash investigation committee said in a statement. The initial information obtained from the flight data recorder is consistent with automated alerts sent by the doomed plane, an Airbus A320, to a maintenance base on the ground indicating smoke in a lavatory as well as in an area near the cockpit where its flight control computer systems were housed. In addition, deepwater salvage teams have retrieved charred pieces of metal from the plane’s front section that investigators said indicated a   fire. EgyptAir Flight 804 disappeared abruptly from radar at 37, 000 feet and then plunged into the sea on May 19 on a flight from Paris to Cairo, killing all 66 passengers and crew members on board. The Egyptian authorities initially suspected terrorism as a likely cause, although no group has claimed responsibility. A French judge recently opened a criminal investigation into the disaster, which killed 15 French citizens, but so far investigators have found no evidence suggesting that someone got a bomb onto the plane before it took off from Paris. Independent aviation safety experts monitoring the crash inquiry said the scant evidence was not enough to determine whether the fire had been caused by a deliberate act or a technical malfunction such as an electrical short circuit. “There are still more questions than answers at this stage,” said Robert W. Mann, a former airline executive and an industry analyst. A specialized salvage team continues to pull wreckage, as well as human remains, from the seabed, roughly 10, 000 feet below the surface. Mr. Mann said analysis of the burned debris would help investigators determine where the fire had begun and how quickly it had spread. In addition, chemical analysis of soot traces would reveal whether any explosives or other accelerants had been involved. Experts said the voice recordings obtained in Paris would also provide important clues about how the pilots had assessed and responded to the emergency. That could help investigators explain a series of sharp maneuvers the plane made in the final moments before it fell from the sky. Air traffic controllers have said the crew did not communicate any emergency to the ground before radio contact was lost and the plane disappeared from their radar screens.