Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • American divisions are rapidly widening over President Trump’s order to close the U. S. to refugees and people from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Implemented with little regard for basic governance, the measure drew support from Mr. Trump’s supporters but criticism from   protesters, Silicon Valley, some members of his own party, State Department diplomats and even former President Obama. Mr. Trump fired the acting attorney general, a holdover from the Obama administration, after she instructed the Justice Department not to defend the order. World leaders have objected to the order, but the leaders of U. S. allies are faced with either openly criticizing Mr. Trump or facing protests at home, like the one above in Scotland. _____ • Mr. Trump’s team was also on the defense over his startling reorganization of the National Security Council, a crucial adviser on major decisions. Stephen K. Bannon, the former head of the provocative website Breitbart, now has a full seat on the principals committee, while the roles of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence were downgraded. Mr. Trump sought to shift the focus to his coming Supreme Court choice. _____ • Messages of solidarity poured into Canada after a mass shooting at a Quebec mosque that left six dead. The suspect in custody was identified as a      university student who, according to local press reports, had a history of provocative views and antisocial behavior. _____ • The top police official in the Philippines said the police would suspend participating in the nation’s bloody drug war while he purged rogue officers like those who strangled a South Korean businessman at Police Headquarters last year. “Ready yourselves, you bad cops,” the official, Ronald dela Rosa, said. “We no longer have a war on drugs, but we now have a war on scalawags. ” The order came hours after President Rodrigo Duterte rejected calls to fire Mr. dela Rosa, above right. Rights groups dismissed the move as a bid to deflect attention from police impunity. _____ • And Australian police are reviewing the deaths of 88 men between 1976 and 2000 to determine whether they should be classified as   hate crimes. The authorities now say gangs of teenagers hunted gay men for sport, sometimes forcing their victims off the cliffs that line Sydney Harbor. Above, a man whose brother fell to his death there in 1988. “We can now see that predators were attacking gay men,” said a former police minister. “And they were doing it with the   knowledge that the police would not have gone after them. That was the police culture of the day. ” • Nearly 400   stacks of Tesla batteries are helping California handle a projected energy shortage, demonstrating both the promise of the batteries as a substitute for conventional power plants and Tesla’s evolution into a multifaceted clean energy company. • Volkswagen overtook Toyota to become the world’s largest automaker. • Sony took a nearly $1 billion loss on its movie business, but said it remained committed to Sony Pictures Division. • The Bank of Japan will update its economic forecasts after President Trump’s election sent the yen into   and rewrote the outlook for Asia in 2017. • A competitor to the bike repair shop has emerged in the U. S.: mobile shops that make house calls. • Wall Street had its worst day of 2017, and the dollar slipped against the yen. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Tens of thousands of mourners gathered in Yangon for the funeral of Myanmar’s most prominent Muslim lawyer, U Ko Ni, who was assassinated on Sunday. [The New York Times] • Brazil watched on TV as a fugitive    tycoon, once the country’s richest man, surrendered to police over corruption accusations. [The New York Times] • The operator of the Fukushima nuclear complex said fuel debris may have been located under one of its reactors, a possible breakthrough in cleanup efforts. [The Guardian] • Fred Korematsu, who fought the U. S. government’s internment of Japanese Americans during World War II, was honored by a Google doodle on what would have been his 98th birthday. [Al Jazeera English] • In Cambodia, sculptors near Angkor Wat are creating reproductions of antiquities of such quality that unscrupulous dealers are selling them as the real thing  —   making them forgeries after the fact. [The Phnom Penh Post] • If you’ve never tried yoga, let this be the week you do: Here’s the NYT guide on what you need to know about getting started. • We found a really cheap way to get happier: Get up and move around. • Recipe of the day: Try this spinach salad with pancetta and fried eggs. • The Japanese entrepreneur whose company created   one of the most successful video games ever, has died. Masaya Nakamura was 91, and had started his career as the country’s economy and spirit began to revive after World War II. • Along with fish balls and flowers, vendors at a New Year’s fair in Hong Kong’s Victoria Park are offering games with a predetermined set of outcomes to protest the   selection of the city’s leader. • In its 15th year, the Battle of the Bands, sponsored by Honda, remains an important celebration of black musical expression in the U. S. “I don’t think people realize how much work goes into a   performance,” one band member said. Shortly before his death, Gustave Eiffel famously predicted that his Eiffel Tower in Paris would stand for a thousand years. Nearly a century later, the city has now said it wants to almost double what it spends on maintaining the tower for a  . The French capital is eager to host the Olympic Games in 2024 and the World Expo in 2025. If it wins either bid, Paris will need to accommodate more than the normal roughly six million tourists visiting the landmark each year. But this concern would not exist  —   nor would the tower itself  —   had Eiffel’s many early opponents prevailed. Some appeared to have worked at The Times. In 1887, when construction started, critics called the monument “the grotesque and mercantile imagination of a machine maker,” according to a Times report. When the tower was inaugurated at a world exhibition in 1889, The Times wrote: “Oh! who will deliver us from the Eiffel Tower!” And in 1937, The Times described the tower as “an aesthetic misfit” that would soon be razed. “It is felt that the Eiffel Tower is out of date and out of perspective. So it is doomed. ” We were, of course, wrong. Patrick Boehler contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.