When the comedian Jeff Ross started flinging insults at the Friars Club in the   the comedy roast was mostly seen as a relic. “It was like jousting or some lost art,” he said, recalling that comics poked fun at him for participating. “It was corny. ” Two decades later, what was once nostalgic has become cool again. The roast battle, which pits comics against each other in gladiatorial combat, has become the hottest new form in comedy today, with dozens of shows across the country and abroad. This week, it’s the focus of a   special on Comedy Central called “Jeff Ross Presents Roast Battle. ” At a time when rap battles have become popular online and onstage, the roast battle uses a similar format to update the ancient art of dueling  . It probably began in Los Angeles in 2013, when a dispute between two comics was settled onstage at the Comedy Store in three   rounds of insults after midnight. The organizers (the comics Brian Moses and Rell Battle) brought it back the next week, and buzz quickly built, turning the roast battle format from a cult hit among   to a frequently   affair. When Mr. Ross, who had become known as the Roastmaster General because of his performances on Comedy Central’s celebrity events, attended his first battle, he became rapidly convinced that the form was the next wave of roasting. The early Comedy Store shows, however, were too raw for television. “We had fights at the start,” Mr. Ross said. “The cops were called one time when a woman poked another in the chest. ” Along with coaching roasters between rounds and recruiting friends like Dave Chappelle and Sarah Silverman to judge, Mr. Ross established three rules: Use only original material, no physical contact and always end with a hug. Today there are battles from Vancouver to Johannesburg (and two different regular live shows in New York) with many variations. There was even a naked roast battle. What convinced Comedy Central that it would translate to television, said Jonas Larsen, a senior vice president at the network, was a tournament at the Just for Laughs Festival in Montreal last year, which was repeated and filmed this year. On the TV special, 16 comics will compete for the crown. One early favorite, Mr. Ross said, is Jimmy Carr, a popular British comic, largely unknown here, who has a jarringly elegant style. “He brings a   notebook onstage and cradles it like a baby and reads his material as if he’s addressing British Parliament,” Mr. Ross said. “It’s disarming. ” If the early rounds, which were broadcast last weekend, are any indication, the finals will feature less delicate styles. When the New York comic Mike Lawrence told his opponent, Scott Chaplain, that Mr. Chaplain’s father had spent “59 years in the Garden State and three in a vegetative one,” Mr. Chaplain retorted: “At least I know my dad’s watching this from heaven. Your dad won’t even watch you on Seth Meyers. ” While roast battle borrows elements from   and even reality television  —   as with “American Idol,” the judging can be the most entertaining part  —   its knowing, personal jokes are a return to the clubby roots of the roast. The Comedy Central celebrity roasts focused on a star who was usually a stranger to the comics, and often an easy target, like Charlie Sheen. “We drifted into territory of trainwrecky,” Mr. Larsen said. “We’ve worked to change that. ” (David Spade hosts the next Comedy Central celebrity roast, of Rob Lowe, on Aug. 27.) “Roast Battle” is less   than the traditional roast. In live shows, the participants often know each other and are of roughly similar career stature. As a consequence, the jokes are more specific and even a bit inside baseball, like a fight at the family dinner table. Just as important as the prepared jokes is the interplay, the improvised retort, the way you take a punch. The most entertaining insult humor has always depended on the chemistry of a double act (Don Rickles was funniest cracking wise at Johnny Carson) but that’s even more evident in “Roast Battle. ” Some roasters win through intimidation, and others lose before they utter their first joke. In two recent live shows I attended, the contenders leaned heavily on jokes about appearance and unfunniness (the harshest cut for a comic) and on transgressive humor, which went wrong when a combatant at the New York Comedy Club referred to the Orlando shooting the week of the tragedy. Rory Albanese, one of the judges, said it was too soon. The Stand puts on Roastmasters NYC, a better show with sharper comics and a D. J. interjecting sound effects like a Homer Simpson “D’oh. ” The judges are also funnier and more involved, a gantlet the comics have to run before they even get to each other. When a lanky roaster named Sean McCarthy took the stage recently, Mark Normand, one of the judges, said, “Wow, I didn’t know anyone still had scurvy. ” Then the other judges piled on. By the time his friend and competitor for the round, Ross Parsons, joined him, Mr. McCarthy looked defeated, stammering out his jokes. At “Roast Battle,” where comics perform in front of their peers, bombing can be brutal, and killing appears euphoric. Where does roasting go from here? Mr. Ross points to the election: “This is where the roasts have gone  —   to politics,” he said, adding that he has roasted Donald J. Trump twice. Mr. Trump, he said, was a good sport, and the only jokes he was sensitive about referred to finances. The Comedy Central writers sent him a list of jokes before the event, and Mr. Trump took issue with only one punch line, crossing out a reference to his wealth as $2 billion and replacing it with $10 billion. When the writers pushed back, they settled on $7 billion. Today’s political language sounds so much like insult comedy that a Hillary Clinton line in a speech about Mr. Trump (“He’s written a lot of books about business, but they all seem to end at Chapter 11”) was similar to one that Mr. Ross uttered at a Trump roast. “I read your book. It had four Chapter 11s,” he told Mr. Trump in a bit that was shot for the 2006 Comedy Central roastfest but was edited out of the final show. When our politics increasingly traffic in pointed insults, perhaps it’s no surprise that roasts have become more popular. Mr. Ross sees the lines blurring, saying he thinks that when Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump debate, it will resemble “Roast Battle. ” “They want to humiliate each other,” he said, adding that the funnier “one might win. ”