The Obama White House has issued hundreds of major regulations in an effort to reshape aspects of American life. Here are some of the most important: CLEAN POWER PLAN Last year, the Obama administration completed rules requiring the nation’s existing power plants to cut, by 2030, emissions of greenhouse gases by 32 percent from 2005 levels. The rules were a central piece of the president’s global effort to confront climate change. But a fierce legal challenge has stalled the rules, which are headed to a test in the Supreme Court. FUEL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS In the summer of 2012, the administration finished rules to require cars and light trucks to get, on average, nearly 55 miles per gallon by 2025. Critics called the rules costly and unnecessary, but President Obama said they would reduce oil consumption by a total of 12 billion barrels by 2025. The regulations survived a legal challenge.   HOSPITAL VISITATION After reading about a lesbian social worker who had been kept from the hospital bedside of her partner, Mr. Obama issued an order in 2010 directing the creation of regulations to allow such visits. By the next year, new rules required all hospitals that participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs to allow patients to designate visitors. PASSENGER BILL OF RIGHTS After a series of highly publicized cases in which airplane passengers were stranded for hours on the tarmac, the Obama administration in 2009 finished rules requiring airlines to return their planes to the gates within three hours or face steep fines. Airline executives called it government meddling the transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, called it a victory for consumers. REARVIEW CAMERAS In 2008, Congress passed a measure mandating that all cars have rearview cameras, reacting to tragic stories of children and older people being killed. For years, regulators and industry representatives balked at the cost, but in 2014, the Obama administration completed the regulations, which require backup cameras in cars and light trucks by 2018. FEDERAL WORKERS In a series of regulatory changes, Mr. Obama sought to improve the pay and benefits for federal workers and contractors. In 2014, he signed an executive order increasing the minimum wage for federal contract workers to $10. 10 per hour from $7. 25. The next year, he issued rules requiring up to seven days of paid sick leave for federal contractors. And this year, he increased the number of workers, including federal employees, eligible for overtime. NET NEUTRALITY In early 2015, the Federal Communications Commission, at Mr. Obama’s urging, issued rules that would regulate internet companies as utilities. The decision set off a battle among tech companies and digital content providers, and the issue is still in the courts. This year, a federal court upheld the administration’s rules, but the fight is likely to end up in the Supreme Court.    RULE Among the many new regulations governing the financial industry, one completed this year requires financial advisers and brokers to act in the best interests of their clients. Wall Street firms and the insurance industry fervently oppose the new rules, and they are likely to continue fighting them in court. HOME HEALTH AIDES Seeking to respond to changes in the way health care is provided at home, the Obama administration imposed rules requiring overtime and minimum wage protections for home health care workers. Opponents of the changes filed suit, and won an initial legal victory. But last summer, a federal appeals court reinstated the rules, which administration officials had called a basic protection for workers. DRONES The Obama administration, trying to balance the potential benefits of drones with the dangers to airplanes and privacy, issued new regulations in June outlining where and when the devices can be flown. The rules allow the use of drones in a wide range of businesses, but they ban their operation close to airports and require pilots to have passed a written test. Business officials hailed the rules as clearing the way for broader use of drones by companies, but privacy advocates said the rules did not go far enough.