Like many companies confronted with sexual harassment in their executive ranks, Fox News and its parent, 21st Century Fox, say they do not tolerate such behavior and have strict policies prohibiting it. “As we’ve made clear, there’s absolutely no room anywhere at our company for behavior that disrespects women or contributes to an uncomfortable work environment,” a 21st Century Fox spokeswoman told The New York Times after the paper reported that about a dozen women at Fox News and Fox Business Network had experienced some form of sexual harassment or inappropriate behavior. If that’s so, how could the former Fox News chief executive, Roger Ailes, have conducted what now appears to have been a   campaign of sexual abuse and harassment of subordinates? Mr. Ailes has denied any wrongdoing. But thanks to two women who were courageous enough to speak out  —   Rudi Bakhtiar (in The Times) and Laurie Luhn (in New York magazine)  —   we know now that Fox News had already paid millions to settle sexual harassment accusations years before the lawsuit by a former Fox News anchor, Gretchen Carlson, that led to Mr. Ailes’s resignation this summer. The bottom line? Neither Mr. Ailes nor any other Fox News executive suffered any consequences before Ms. Carlson’s lawsuit and the subsequent investigation. The previous victims who filed complaints left the company, their careers in ruins, and in return for money, signed agreements that muzzled them. A 21st Century Fox spokesman, Nathaniel Brown, said the company had no comment beyond its previous statements. “A lot of men have gotten away with sexual harassment with absolutely no consequences,” said Catharine A. MacKinnon, a professor of law at the University of Michigan and Harvard Law School who pioneered sexual harassment lawsuits. No matter what companies say, she added, “the real rule is that the more powerful a man is, the more he gets away with. ” Jon Bauer, a professor of law at the University of Connecticut who has written extensively about workplace discrimination, also says the issue goes well beyond Fox News. “Employees are rewarded for shielding powerful people in the organization,” he said. “That’s the culture in many workplace settings. ” The problem is compounded by settlements, like those at Fox News and most organizations, that impose silence on the victims. It’s certainly understandable that companies would want to avoid the bad publicity and put such matters behind them. But at the same time, they foster the perception that the settlements are really   especially when no disciplinary steps are taken against the perpetrators. Professor Bauer likened the situation to the sexual abuse scandal that engulfed the Catholic Church. “We’ve done thousands of confidential settlements,” said Gloria Allred, a civil rights lawyer who has probably handled more prominent sexual harassment cases than anyone. “We do them every day. Complete confidentiality is usually the condition for a settlement. This can be very difficult for our clients. They want to be compensated and they want to tell the world about it. I tell them that’s just not going to happen. ” (Full disclosure: The New York Times Company has also entered into confidential agreements in settling employment cases.) Victims of sexual harassment can see what happens to other victims who came forward. “It’s career suicide to come forward,” said Professor MacKinnon. “You’re roadkill. Women know this, yet some come forward. That’s what courage looks like. ” It’s not just women who may suffer the consequences. Last week, The Times reported that the hedge fund Bridgewater Associates had settled sexual harassment accusations by Christopher Tarui, who claimed that his boss had “caressed” his back in a hotel room and repeatedly propositioned him for sex. After he rebuffed his boss, Mr. Tarui’s complaint states, he received a poor performance review. Mr. Tarui said he had been discouraged from pursuing a claim, and when it became clear that he was filing one, he was escorted out of the office and placed on a paid leave of absence. He has since found another job. Terms of that settlement, too, are confidential. Bridgewater, in a statement, emphasized that Mr. Tarui had withdrawn his claims. Bridgewater said it had waived a noncompete clause so that Mr. Tarui could take another job and paid him no money as part of the settlement. A spokesman for the firm declined further comment. Most employment contracts, including Ms. Carlson’s, also require any sexual harassment claims to go to arbitration, where all evidence and proceedings are secret. “I’d love to see the end of the requirement to go to arbitration as a condition of employment,” Ms. Allred said. “If a claim can’t be resolved, an employee should have the right to file a lawsuit and have her day in court. ” That would require legislation, because courts have generally upheld such arbitration clauses. Even though the terms of the Luhn settlement were confidential, others at Fox News and 21st Century Fox should have known about it. And if so, they should have taken steps to investigate and, if warranted, discipline executives who violated company policy, not to mention federal law. Given the size of Ms. Luhn’s settlement  —   $3. 15 million, according to New York magazine  —   Fox News must have believed that the claim had some merit. “If that’s correct, it’s a serious number, and she must have had a serious claim,” Ms. Allred said. At Fox News, Dianne Brandi, executive vice president for business and legal affairs, handled Ms. Luhn’s claim. She presumably conducted an investigation, if only to assess the merits of Ms. Luhn’s claim. Fox News’s parent company has said no one there knew about the Luhn payment until recently, and a Fox News spokeswoman said previously that Mr. Ailes alone directed the settlement negotiations and agreed to the terms. Ms. Brandi would appear to have plenty to answer for. Not only should Mr. Ailes have had no involvement in disposing of the matter given that he was the subject of the claim, but ethical standards suggest that she should have told higher ranking executives and perhaps even Rupert Murdoch, who was 21st Century Fox’s chief executive at the time, or members of the company’s board. The New York State Rules of Professional Conduct require internal lawyers who know of behavior “substantially likely” to injure the corporation to take all steps “reasonably necessary” to protect the company, which may include notifying the company’s board. “It’s the obligation of the   lawyer to protect the company,” Professor MacKinnon said. “Unfortunately, when you’re dealing with a   executive like Ailes, there’s a tendency to see protecting the company as the same as protecting him. They should be protecting the company from him. ” A Fox News spokeswoman, Irena Briganti, declined to make Ms. Brandi available for comment. The upshot: Despite decades of E. E. O. C. enforcement proceedings and the widespread adoption of strict   policies in the workplace, most sexual harassment claims never get reported and most of those that do get swept under the rug. “Sexual harassment is still a massive problem,” Ms. Allred said. “It’s severe and it’s pervasive. ” But in the aftermath of Mr. Ailes’s resignation, there is hope for improvement. After Ms. Carlson filed her suit, Fox News and 21st Century Fox did what they should have done years ago when faced with similar accusations: They hired outside counsel for an investigation, and when overwhelming evidence mounted, demanded Mr. Ailes’s resignation. “It’s hard to overstate how important it is that even someone as powerful as Ailes was held accountable,” Professor MacKinnon said. “There have been a lot of situations where you’d come to the conclusion that the law doesn’t matter, and that what does matter is power, the rule of force. Then something like this comes along and you realize the law does matter. A lot of women are going to take heart from that. ”