RIO DE JANEIRO  —   In 2008, one of the swimmers poised to foil Michael Phelps’s bid for a record eight Olympic gold medals was his American teammate Ryan Lochte, who was competing against Phelps in the individual medley events. While Phelps adhered to a regimented existence in the athletes’ village in Beijing, Lochte made himself sick gorging on free Big Macs. After finishing a distant third to Phelps in the 400 I. M. their opening event, Lochte did not mind if all the world’s news media knew about his   folly, speaking of it openly. His Everyman behavior and his eccentricities, which extended to his 1970s   wardrobe and his    vocabulary, made Lochte stand out. That   personality, such a big part of his commercial appeal, has landed him in trouble with the Brazilian police, who could charge Lochte and another American swimmer, Jimmy Feigen, with providing false testimony about a crime. While not as acclaimed as Phelps, Lochte has been intertwined with him. The story of Phelps, the most decorated Olympic athlete of all time, with 28 medals, including 23 golds, cannot be told without Lochte, the   decorated American male Olympian, with 12 medals, including six golds. For over a dozen years, their careers and personalities have been flip sides of an Olympic medal. Lochte is as spontaneous as Phelps is serious, coming across as the cutup to Phelps’s cutthroat competitor. In contrast to Phelps’s stony scowl, Lochte sometimes smiled and revealed   grilles. Though roughly 11 months older than Phelps, Lochte, 32, has contented himself with being a follower and with letting Phelps lead. They are separated by slivers of time in the pool, but the gulf between them in their personal lives is yawning. On the   night that Lochte chose to go out partying with teammates, Phelps also left the athletes’ village. He spent the night at a hotel with his fiancée, Nicole Johnson, whom he helped with diaper duty for their    son, Boomer. Before the Games began, Lochte spoke in wistful tones of wanting to start a family. He sounded like he was on surer footing when he spoke of an imminent move to Los Angeles, a city big enough for his outsize celebrity ambitions. If Phelps’s dreams revolved around surpassing Mark Spitz, Lochte would appear to have set his sights on becoming the next Ryan Seacrest. Though he could seldom match Phelps’s results, Lochte nevertheless has enjoyed a long reign as the public’s champion, providing the ballast with his   nature for Phelps’s   efficiency. During the years when Phelps dutifully trained every day, including Sunday, Lochte missed time because of injuries sustained riding a motor scooter,   and falling off a skateboard. Gregg Troy, the University of Florida men’s and women’s coach who oversaw Lochte’s training through 2012, said five years ago: “I’m dealing with a    man who lives on the edge a little bit. If you do anything other than allow him to be himself, he’s not going to be the same athlete. ” Lochte made his Olympic debut in Athens in 2004 shortly after his 20th birthday, competing in the same events that he did in these Rio Games: the   freestyle relay and the 200 individual medley. He finished second in the I. M. behind Phelps, a result that would become a template for the next decade. Between 2004 and 2012, as Phelps was establishing his legacy, Lochte luxuriated in the limelight that stretched to include him because he was at once Phelps’s truest competitor and his most consistent foil. They raced in the Olympics in six individual finals, most recently in the 200 I. M. last week, and five times Lochte finished behind Phelps. The exception was the 400 I. M. at the 2012 Olympics, where Lochte captured the gold and Phelps finished fourth. In contrast to Phelps, whose blinkered focus could be   Lochte came across as accessible. It was as if the swimming world could be divided into two camps: children who envisioned growing up to be like Phelps, and their parents, who imagined what fun it would be to have a beer (or three) with Lochte. Mark Schubert, then the United States national team director, said in 2007, “I just think Ryan’s whole attitude toward the sport is so healthy. ” As long as there were no ripples, these surface personas of Michael the Machine and Ryan the Reveler shimmered, allowing Lochte to play Robin to Phelps’s Batman. Flawed as individuals, they were perfect as a pair. For all his focus, it is Phelps, not Lochte, who has twice been suspended by U. S. A. Swimming. In 2009, Phelps was suspended for three months after a photo appeared to show him smoking marijuana. In the fall of 2014, Phelps was arrested for the second time on charges of driving under the influence and entered inpatient treatment at a recovery center. He was suspended for six months and removed from the national team that competed in the 2015 World Championships in Kazan, Russia, in the final major tuneup before the Rio Games. Lochte’s   with the Brazilian police, also precipitated by heavy alcohol consumption, has caused an international incident that has overshadowed the second week of the Rio Games. He initially denied that anything had happened after he left a party early Sunday morning, only to say later that he and three teammates had been robbed at gunpoint by assailants posing as police officers. But by Thursday, Brazilian investigators said they had video evidence and witness testimony that Lochte’s account of the robbery was fabricated. The incident has given Lochte, who is back in the United States, a degree of fame that he never achieved as a swimming leading man or a reality TV star. After the London Olympics, Lochte lampooned his reputation by appearing on an episode of “30 Rock” as another character’s “sex idiot. ” He also signed on for the E! reality show “What Would Ryan Lochte Do?” The show failed to attract a large viewership, resulting in its cancellation in 2013 after one season. But Lochte has unwittingly found a huge audience with his   escapades here, as he departed the country and left behind three younger teammates to answer for their actions and millions of Olympic viewers clamoring to know, What did Lochte do? It is not the first time American swimmers have gotten into hot water at an Olympics. At the 1988 Seoul Games, Troy Dalbey and Doug Gjertsen, who each won two gold medals, were sent home after being arrested on charges of stealing a marble lion’s head from a hotel. The United States Olympic Committee, after a meeting of its executive board, ordered the pair dropped from the team and sent home. Dalbey was suspended by U. S. A. Swimming from national and international competition and team training camps for 18 months. Gjertsen was exonerated from any involvement in the theft but was suspended for three months. Unlike some nations’ team officials, U. S. A. Swimming did not set a curfew for swimmers of legal drinking age after the final night of competition. In a statement late Thursday night, the U. S. O. C. said, “The behavior of these athletes is not acceptable, nor does it represent the values of Team USA or the conduct of the vast majority of its members. We will further review the matter, and any potential consequences for the athletes, when we return to the United States. ” After failing to medal in his last event here, the 200 I. M. Lochte was asked if he intended to retire. He sidestepped the question, saying he just needed a mental and physical break from the rigors of training and competition. Given the suspensions that U. S. A. Swimming levied on Dalbey and Gjertsen, and more recently, Phelps, it is hard to imagine that he will not be forced out of the sport for some period of time. In a conversation with his family that was caught on camera during his reality show, Lochte said he envisioned a future in Los Angeles. “I see me being a designer, I see me being a model, I see me being a TV star,” Lochte said. He did corral the spotlight in Rio, just not the way he planned.