On the way to a Wimbledon final this summer, Milos Raonic took a crash course in the attitudinal psychology of advanced men’s tennis. The curriculum offered a straightforward application of positive thinking, said his instructor, or coach, Carlos Moyá. “What I tried to convince Milos is that this Big Four thing, it’s over,” Moyá said. Foregone conclusion, or wishful thinking? Heading into the United States Open, the year’s final Grand Slam tournament, the answer on both counts  —   depending on the criteria  —   is yes. The chronically injured Rafael Nadal never did make it to London after withdrawing from the third round of his beloved French Open with a bad wrist. Novak Djokovic, the holder of all four Grand Slam tournament titles before Wimbledon, was stunned there in the third round by the American Sam Querrey. That opened the door for Raonic, the      Canadian, to rally against an aging and ailing Roger Federer in the semifinals from a     deficit. Left in Raonic’s path to a first major title and perhaps a new men’s tour order was Andy Murray. The last of the establishment vanguard, Murray defended the compound and won the crown in three competitive sets, the 42nd victory for the Big Four in the last 46 Grand Slam (or big four) events. Even without a breakthrough by Raonic or a handful of other   ordained prodigies, the men’s game  —   driven by a familiar and popular narrative for the better part of a decade  —   has felt the ground shift, though not yet seismically. According to Moyá, the needle has moved just enough to demonstrate that the Big Four is no more. “Even knowing that Stan Wawrinka beat Djokovic at the French last year, you still felt that these four guys were in control of the game,” he said in an interview at the Rogers Cup in Toronto this month. “Now, to me, things are different. ” Nadal, 30, has resumed playing, but Federer, 35, stepped aside after Wimbledon for the remainder of the year to rest his surgically repaired knee. Djokovic’s aura of invincibility was pierced by Querrey and then by a healthy Juan Martín del Potro in a stunning and     defeat at the Olympics. Murray is entrenched as the world’s   player and has had a brilliant summer, but can he sustain his excellence long enough to make a run at the top? “The gap is still big with the two players  —   Djokovic and Murray,” Moyá said. “But it’s about being there, being consistent and believing that their level is going to drop, that they can be beaten now, and it’s you who can be the one. ” Not getting too far ahead of himself, Moyá meant the one at any given major, not necessarily the world’s No. 1. Querrey, who is 6 feet 6 inches and has a   ranking of No. 17 in 2011, was the unlikely one who ended Djokovic’s   streak in a   victory that temporarily left him feeling, he said, “like I was No. 2. ” At Wimbledon, he accepted   in the locker room and congratulatory texts from all over. At home in Los Angeles, he threw out the first pitch at a Dodgers game. At hardcourt tournaments in Washington and Toronto, he snapped photos with fans who normally would have acknowledged him as a player, just not sure which one. “It’s kind of funny that you go around the grounds and the guys want to thank you for beating Novak,” Querrey said. “It’s not so much ‘Good job you won.’ It’s more like ‘Good job he lost. ’” Such had been the paradox of Djokovic’s ascendance, which in the past two years has taken the shine off the Big Four era, even as Federer defied chronological norms and chased Djokovic into major semifinals and finals, only to lose, disappointing the masses who were wishing him one more Grand Slam trophy as a topping to his record 17. A decade ago, when Federer reached a level all his own, the sport and its global fan base celebrated his artistry, his supremacy, his global stature as tennis’s ambassadorial Tiger. Djokovic, a thoughtful, droll and driven Serb, has encountered waves of sentiment for Federer, still the people’s choice in most places, and for Murray, the Scotsman, at Wimbledon. But in completing his career Grand Slam in Paris in June, Djokovic was finally rewarded with an outpouring of affection by the Roland Garros crowd for how badly he wanted to win his first French Open. In Toronto, where he recovered from Wimbledon by brushing aside Kei Nishikori for the title, Djokovic called the climax in Paris an “unforgettable moment, remarkable, a divine sensation to experience, honestly. ” “It’s one of those feelings that stick with you forever,” Djokovic said. To their competitors, it can feel that long since Djokovic, Federer, Nadal and Murray began their reign, though Toni Nadal, Rafa’s uncle and coach, declared the Big Four era unofficially over in 2014. That year, Wawrinka beat Djokovic and Nadal in winning his first Grand Slam title in Australia, and Marin Cilic bludgeoned Federer in the semifinals on the way to winning the United States Open. “It is a normal thing  —   the domination of Federer, Nadal and Djokovic is now less,” Toni Nadal said, explaining that the increasingly physical demands of a technologically enhanced game were taking their inevitable toll, especially on his grinding nephew. At the time, he envisioned Raonic, Nishikori and Grigor Dimitrov crashing the Big Four party and said that they would soon after be joined or eventually surpassed by Alexander Zverev, the    German many believe will be the next player to win multiple Slams. Others would add to the mix Dominic Thiem, 22, of Austria the talented but turbulent Australian Nick Kyrgios, 21 Borna Coric, 19, of Croatia and an American, Taylor Fritz, 18. “There’s a lot of young talent, but I rate Sascha Zverev as someone who is going to do incredible things in this game,” the American veteran John Isner said. “I practice with him quite a bit in Florida, and for a big kid who hasn’t quite grown into his body just yet, he’s got immense talent. ” These and other supposed heirs are also why  —   Moyá’s claim aside  —   most discussions of the Big Four’s demise are punctuated with a question mark, not an exclamation point. With all their physical setbacks this year, Federer and Nadal were still ranked in the top four with Djokovic and Murray immediately after Wimbledon. But entering the Open, Wawrinka has risen to No. 3. In addition to staying healthy, Nadal must prove he can regain his prime career form. He reached the semifinals in singles at the Rio Olympics and won the gold medal in men’s doubles. But were his subsequent   losses to Nishikori in the bronze medal match and to Coric last week at the Western  Southern Open more about rust than career recession? What remains an open question is who, besides Raonic, might soon fill any sustained Big Four vacancies? Paul Annacone, the former tour player and coach of Federer and Pete Sampras, said that the contemporary career span had been stretched in what is more of an   sport because of technology and   athletes. That has made it difficult to determine the timetable for   maturity. Moyá said he had reminded Raonic, 25, that Wawrinka was 28 when he won in Australia. Murray lost his first four major finals before beating Djokovic at the 2012 United States Open and appears to be peaking at 29. “Back when I was playing, if you didn’t win a Slam when you were 21, 22, and were not a   player, forget about doing it,” Moyá said. “So now I feel like being 20 years ago is now 25, 26. I can tell Milos, your best days are ahead of you. ” Greatness has always been much easier to project than to attain. In reaching the 2014 Wimbledon semifinals, where he lost a tight match to Djokovic, Dimitrov, now 25, appeared ready to build on his “Baby Federer” appraisal, only to precipitously slide in the rankings and cite the Federer likeness as “a little burden” that “didn’t help at all. ” Half the battle against the Big Four is establishing belief, Moyá said, having had the experience of watching Raonic rally against Federer at Wimbledon two years after Federer crushed him there in straight sets. A hard lesson was learned on that same semifinal stage, and this time, Raonic was ready to capitalize when Federer   twice and blew a   lead at   in the fourth set. “You get to know a player after spending time with him, and I could tell from his body language he was going to break Roger,” Moyá said. “I knew he was ready. ” For Querrey, the notion of outlasting Djokovic, the fittest of the Big Four, was less about psychological preparation and more about convincing himself on court. “They have separated themselves so much that walking out there you’re already thinking you’re in trouble,” Querrey said, “since they’re the only guys who pretty much have won Slams over the last eight years. And so it’s not until I get out there and feel like I’m able to play with them that I think, ‘Oh, I’m in this,’ or ‘Hey, I feel like I’m being overwhelmed here. ’” Beyond Moyá’s tactical motivations, few are ready to even speculate that Federer and Nadal may be too old or infirm to keep the Big Four united. But Nadal’s last major victory was the 2014 French Open, while Federer, close calls aside, has gone four years since defeating Murray in the 2012 Wimbledon final for his 17th major title. Murray followed his second Wimbledon title with a repeat Olympic gold medal in singles. But with only three career Grand Slam titles, he is the Big Four’s least credentialed member. A case could be made that Wawrinka  —   who denied Djokovic a   Slam in Paris last year and reached a   No. 3 ranking in 2014  —   has been a deserving Big Four   the last three years. “What puts them apart is their consistency, which is unbelievable,” Wawrinka said in Toronto. That is why Djokovic’s sudden and surprising summer stumbles  —   compounded by an aching wrist sustained in Rio  —   have raised hopes that anything might be possible in New York. “I wouldn’t say the door is ajar, but it’s cracked,” Isner said. “Guys are starting to reel them in a little bit. ” Djokovic agreed, without conceding that anyone’s run  —   most of all his  —   was over or close to it. Until one or more of the younger players becomes a rainmaker, he said, the death of the Big Four remains a forecast. “We are all aware it’s not going to stay forever, you know,” he said. “Somebody’s going to come in the mix. Whether that’s going to happen later this year, next year, or in few years, that’s something that we don’t know. But, you know, still the four of us guys that have been, you know, very fortunate to dominate a sport in last 10 years have been staying consistently there in those spots. ” Annacone coached Sampras when he was dismissed as a serious contender for majors on the far side of 30 and called him a cautionary tale for those writing off Federer and Nadal. “I lived it with Pete people said he’d never win again,” Annacone said, referring to the final match of Sampras’s career, a   takedown of Andre Agassi in the 2002 United States Open final for his   14th major title. “These guys are   greats, and we’ve come to expect so much that the evaluations do get a little skewed. ” Results do matter, though, the years do pass, and it would appear that the Big Four, beyond the individual fortunes of its members, is beginning to be recognized as a fading concept. “The shadow they cast was massive,” Isner said. “And I don’t think it’ll ever be seen again like that. ”