WASHINGTON  —   Navy SEALs led an unsuccessful raid last month to free an American university professor and his Australian colleague who are being held by the Taliban, engaging in a fierce gun battle with dozens of insurgents at a remote compound in the mountains of eastern Afghanistan, American officials said Thursday. The officials said the rescue mission began in the days after the professors, Kevin King, the American, and Timothy Weeks, the Australian, were taken at gunpoint on Aug. 7 from their vehicle in Kabul near the campus of the American University of Afghanistan, where they teach. The officials said the group of SEAL members, backed by Army Rangers, are believed to have missed the men by hours. The Pentagon confirmed in a statement that a raid had occurred to rescue two civilians but said that “the hostages were not at the location we suspected. ” No Americans were killed, but “a number” of insurgents were, it said. On Thursday, Taliban fighters were on the verge of overrunning Tirin Kot, the capital of Oruzgan Province in the south, Afghan officials and local elders said. Dost Mohammad Nayab, a spokesman for the governor of Oruzgan, said that all security posts around the city had been overrun by the Taliban and that the insurgents had started firing on the Police Headquarters and the governor’s compound. “The security forces are engaged with the Taliban inside the city, and fighting is ongoing,” Mr. Nayab said. By late afternoon, however, Mr. Nayab said the situation had improved after NATO airstrikes began targeting Taliban positions. In addition, Gen. Abdul Raziq, the powerful police chief of neighboring Kandahar Province, had arrived with other reinforcements, and the central government had tasked him with leading the cleanup operation, a spokesman for General Raziq said. The SEAL raid, which was first reported by Fox News, was authorized by President Obama, the Pentagon said. “In order to protect the safety of hostages and operational security,” its statement did not specify whom exactly the SEAL members were seeking to rescue or provide any more details about the raid. But days after the professors were abducted in August, the university put out a statement naming the two men and saying they were teaching English to prepare Afghan students to study abroad. The Obama administration has not shied away from launching risky rescue raids, but the record has been mixed. The best known is perhaps the raid by SEALs in 2009 to free a cargo ship captain, Richard Phillips, from Somali pirates, an episode that was made into a movie starring Tom Hanks. In 2012, SEALs freed an American aid worker and her Danish colleague from Somali pirates. But a military raid in July 2014 to free several American and Western hostages held by the Islamic State in Syria failed because the captives had already been moved. That same year, militants from Al Qaeda’s affiliate in Yemen killed an American man and a South African after Special Operations forces tried to free them. The raid in August targeted a Taliban faction known as the Haqqani network. The Haqqanis are among the Taliban’s most capable and violent factions. They have held a number of   Western captives over the years, including Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, who was freed in 2014 in a prisoner swap with the United States. The Haqqanis sit atop the Taliban’s lucrative business of kidnapping Westerners and prominent Afghans, most of whom are held for ransom. The kidnappings are usually carried out by   insurgent factions or criminal gangs, who then sell the victims to the Haqqanis. Captives are usually then moved into the Haqqanis’ strongholds in the tribal areas of Pakistan. Once in Pakistan, the hostages are essentially beyond the reach of American and European forces, which can operate across Afghanistan but cannot legally launch raids inside Pakistan. Knowing this, insurgents try to move hostages across the border as quickly as possible, and American and European forces typically scramble in the immediate aftermath of an abduction to rescue the victims before they can be spirited out of Afghanistan. That appears to have been the case in the raid to free the professors, though officials did not say whether they believed that the men were still in Afghanistan or had been moved to Pakistan. Among the Westerners who are still believed to be held by the Haqqanis in Pakistan are a couple who have had two children since they were abducted in 2012. The insurgents released a video of the couple last week, threatening to kill the entire family if the Afghan government executed a senior Haqqani figure it was holding and had recently sentenced to death. The husband, Joshua Boyle, 33, a Canadian, and the wife, Caitlan Coleman, 30, an American, were kidnapped in an area dominated by insurgents in Wardak Province, south of Kabul. Ms. Coleman was pregnant with her first child at the time, officials said. In the video, Mr. Boyle said he had heard reports that the Afghan government was executing Taliban prisoners. “Our captors are terrified of the thought of their own mortality approaching and are saying that they will take reprisals on our family,” he said, according to a transcript of the video released by the SITE Intelligence Group. Ms. Coleman added, “They are willing to kill us, willing to kill women, to kill children, to kill whomever” to end the executions of Taliban prisoners by the Afghan government. She asked the United States to “do anything to change the policies of the Afghan government to stop their policy of executing men. ” A    American from Massachusetts who disappeared in 2014 is believed to be held by the Haqqanis and remains unaccounted for. Last year, the Obama administration overhauled efforts to free Americans held overseas, creating the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell, led by the F. B. I. It took that step after facing intense criticism for failing to do enough to save the Americans who were taken hostage in Syria and later killed by the Islamic State.