Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. North Korea conducted a powerful nuclear test that showcased its increasing mastery of atomic weaponry and confronted the U. S. with new diplomatic and security challenges. Military experts said the increasing expertise, paired with headway in developing intercontinental ballistic missiles, could bring the continental U. S. in reach of a nuclear warhead by 2020. Analysts say that North Korea cultivates a sense of unpredictability verging on irrationality, but that, in fact, the government remains coldly calculating, edging up to the brink of war to keep aggressors at bay and its savagely oppressed people cowed. Above, a protest in South Korea. _____ 2. President Obama is back in Washington after a   trip to Asia. He visited Laos to recognize the scars of the U. S. secret war there during the Vietnam conflict and, standing alongside the leader of China, formally committed the world’s two largest economies to the Paris climate agreement. Mr. Obama has pushed hard on measures to fight climate change, logging historic achievements abroad but frustrating setbacks at home. Watch our interview with Mr. Obama here. _____ 3. The race to succeed Mr. Obama has just about eight weeks to go, and it’s getting even more intense. Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump clashed over national security, as Mr. Trump proposed dropping spending caps on the military and Mrs. Clinton pledged to never send U. S. soldiers back into Iraq or into Syria. Each candidate made statements that drew intense criticism: Mr. Trump’s   backing for Vladimir Putin drew reminders of the Russian leader’s harshly oppressive tactics and territorial aggression, and Mrs. Clinton’s characterization of half of Mr. Trump’s supporters as being “in a basket of deplorables”  —   “the racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic, you name it” that he has empowered. _____ 4. The U. S. today commemorates the 15th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, the deadliest terrorist attack on U. S. soil. The National September 11 Memorial Museum, at ground zero, has portraits of almost all of the nearly 3, 000 people killed that day in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, but seven are still being sought. Can you help? There may be no better way to understand how the passengers of Flight 93 fought their hijackers and brought their plane down in Shanksville, Pa. killing all aboard, than listening to Robert Franz, a    interpretive park ranger at the memorial there. _____ 5. Uber will introduce a fleet of about 100   cars in Pittsburgh within days, each with a human monitor in the driver’s seat. This is not just a test of the technology. It’s also a demonstration of “greenlight governing,” i. e. giving tech companies help and lots of freedom. Pittsburgh officials helped Uber lease riverfront land for a testing track and warded off new state regulations. “You can either put up red tape or roll out the red carpet,” the mayor said. “If you want to be a   laboratory for technology, you put out the carpet. ” _____ 6. College campuses around the nation are stepping up discussions of  microaggressions and triggers as they address racism, diversity, sexual consent and excessive drinking in their fall orientation programs. But the schools can find themselves in a bind. Racist episodes sharply depressed enrollment for at least one university, but alumni upset over the currents in college culture, including efforts to silence those whose opinions differ, are closing their wallets. _____ 7. The Obama administration made an unusual intervention in a protest in North Dakota, temporarily blocking construction of part of the Dakota Access oil pipeline minutes after a federal judge had cleared the project. Thousands of Native Americans and activists have been protesting, warning that a section of the pipeline that is to go under a river has the potential to foul tribal water supplies and ancestral cultural sites. The Justice Department and other agencies called for discussions on giving greater consideration of tribes’ views for “these types of infrastructure projects. ” _____ 8. Public health experts have raised more alarms on Zika, but partisan fighting has kept Congress from adding to funds to combat the virus. Urgently needed measures in Puerto Rico and Florida are at risk, and fears of Zika spreading along the Gulf Coast are growing. Peak mosquito season there will not end until November. And lawmakers are going to the wire again on funding the government. At this point, only stopgap measures will keep the lights on after Sept. 30. President Obama invited congressional leaders to the White House on Monday to discuss that and other priorities. _____ 9. The U. S. and Russia, after 10 months of failed talks, agreed to embark on a new approach to Syria. The deal depends on Russia restraining Syria’s loyalist forces, and on the U. S. persuading opposition groups it supports to separate from the Nusra Front, an affiliate of Al Qaeda. Above, a wounded Syrian boy comforted another. The U. S. has now accepted 10, 000 Syrian refugees. Here’s where they’ve been placed. And here’s a look at what it’s like when young refugees from all over try to fit in at an ordinary American high school. _____ 10. Clothes you can buy now, or at least order, are the big news from the opening of the fall fashion season. New York Fashion Week (followed by Fashion Weeks in London, Milan and Paris) also proved that the clothes are no longer enough  —   the shows have to provide an experience. Our critic looked at two representative cases: Kanye West’s performance piece and Tom Ford’s evening of dinner theater. It doesn’t matter that only a select few can physically attend, she writes: Their Instagram and Facebook posts invite followers to try to get closer by getting “a product that was in the room. ” _____ 11. Finally, researchers have found fascinating new aspects of the lives of the bonobo, the endangered primate that is one of our closest relatives. Famed for their hypersexuality, bonobos also form strong bonds among females and weak ones among males, in sharp contrast to the closely related chimpanzee. In fact, senior females will lead coalitions of two or more juniors to drive off harassing males. “It’s a matriarchy,” a primatologist said. “Females are running the show. ” Have a great week.  _____ Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p. m. Eastern. Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s Evening Briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.