Hillary Clinton’s bout of pneumonia and the criticism of how little she and her opponent, Donald J. Trump, have made public about their medical histories thrust questions of transparency about health to the center of the presidential campaign this week, with both candidates promising to release more detailed records in the coming days. While the public scrutiny of modern campaigns has made speculation about the health of presidential candidates more relentless, concerns about the fitness of candidates for office have long been a hallmark of American politics, with many hopefuls trying to conceal their maladies and opponents doing their best to exploit signs of weakness. From brushing off gunshot wounds to working through paralysis, presidents, and those seeking the office, have been no strangers to challenging ailments. Here are a few of history’s most prominent examples. The revelation that Mrs. Clinton had pneumonia instantly drew comparisons to William Henry Harrison, the ninth president, whose tenure was the shortest in the country’s history. Harrison died from pneumonia, according to his doctor, in 1841, a month after delivering a   inaugural address on a blustery day. Being underdressed in bad weather was blamed for causing an illness that quickly spiraled out of control. Doctors treated him with opium and other medications that proved to be useless. Historians continue to debate the true cause of Harrison’s death, and some scholars have wondered whether his history of dyspepsia, rather than pneumonia, was really to blame. According to one theory, the White House’s lack of a proper sewage system may have contaminated its water supply with pathogens that poisoned the president. _____ Mrs. Clinton’s campaign said that she had wanted to push through her pneumonia after it was diagnosed last Friday. For Douglas Brinkley, a Rice University historian, the urge to put politics before health echoed Theodore Roosevelt. In 1912, Roosevelt, a former president, was running again with the Progressive “Bull Moose” Party when he was shot in the chest before he was to deliver a speech in Milwaukee. The manuscript of the speech, which was in his coat pocket, cushioned the blow and saved his life. Gritting through the pain, he delivered a shortened version of the speech anyway, declaring, “It takes more than that to kill a bull moose. ” “He thought if he went to a hospital and seemed infirm, it would lower his chances of winning,” Mr. Brinkley said of Roosevelt, who ultimately lost the election. _____ President Woodrow Wilson had a debilitating stroke in 1919, leaving him incapacitated and raising questions about who was really running the executive branch. Scholars such as Edwin A. Weinstein, a neuropsychiatrist, spent years studying Wilson’s old correspondence to determine that he had experienced smaller strokes dating back to 1898, which might have foreshadowed his health problems later in life. Transparency was particularly problematic at the time, as Wilson’s wife, Edith, and his doctor allegedly orchestrated a   to prevent the public from learning about his deteriorating condition. _____ Health was always something of a concern for Franklin D. Roosevelt, who was partly paralyzed and was vigilant about keeping his wheelchair hidden from the public. But it was when he sought his fourth term as president in 1944 that his opponents seized on his diminished strength and failing faculties in hopes of finally defeating him. Documents in Roosevelt’s presidential library show how the “whispering campaign” of his rival Thomas E. Dewey tried to paint Roosevelt as a “tired old man,” and how Roosevelt campaigned more aggressively to demonstrate that he still had vigor. Privately, Roosevelt’s doctors had warned that he had high blood pressure and was at a high risk of heart failure. In April 1945, Roosevelt collapsed and died from a cerebral hemorrhage. _____ In 1960, John F. Kennedy declared himself the “healthiest candidate for president in the country. ” But despite his youthful good looks, Kennedy was battling a variety of ailments, including Addison’s disease, an autoimmune disorder that affects the adrenal glands. Despite efforts by his family to hide the disorder, which can be   pathologists who conducted his autopsy revealed in 1992 that Kennedy, who was assassinated at the age of 46, had been taking hormone replacement supplements to control the rare condition. Some suggested that he might have lost the 1960 election to Richard M. Nixon if the extent of his health problems had been known. A more extensive batch of medical records made public in 2002 showed that Kennedy also lived in considerable discomfort, taking painkillers,   agents, stimulants and sleeping pills. He was also hospitalized for back and intestinal problems and had osteoporosis. _____ The oldest president ever to take office, Ronald Reagan endured an assassination attempt and the removal of cancerous polyps from his colon. Some historians have blamed the colon surgery, in 1985, for poor decisions Reagan made related to the   scandal while he was recuperating. Reagan transferred power briefly to Vice President George Bush, but rushed back to work. “Reagan made a serious mistake in taking back his powers and duties,” said Robert Gilbert, an emeritus professor of political science at Northeastern University and an expert on illness in the White House. According to Mr. Gilbert, Reagan’s aides prevented people from seeing him because he was unwell, and he made decisions while hospitalized that he later did not remember.