Included among the many uplifting economic numbers released by the Census Bureau on Tuesday was a remarkable one about health insurance in the United States: Only 9. 1 percent of Americans do not have coverage, the lowest level ever recorded by the agency. That figure is down from 13. 3 percent in 2013, before the major provisions of the health care law signed by President Obama went into effect. Another government study, released last week, looked at the first part of 2016 and found that the uninsured rate had fallen even further, to 8. 6 percent. So does that mean the Affordable Care Act is solving the puzzle of getting people covered, a major goal of the law? It certainly looks that way. About 18 million more people have coverage now than did in 2013. But the new numbers also highlight where the law is not working well  —   and how difficult it will be to drop the uninsured rate much lower. Many states have continued to resist the Obama administration’s entreaties to expand their Medicaid coverage, leaving millions of poor Americans with no affordable health insurance options. And the marketplaces created under the law, in which   people without insurance can buy policies, are struggling in states across the country. Some insurers are dropping out, and others are sharply raising prices. In New York City, for example, rates for a benchmark plan could go up by an average of 16 percent, according to one analysis. If the marketplaces do not stabilize, the drop in the uninsured rate could stall or even reverse. Adding to the uncertainty is the hazy future of the health care law. Donald J. Trump and Republicans in Congress have vowed to repeal it if they get the chance. And even if the Democrats are in control, there is an array of competing proposals on how to adjust the law. “The way I would frame it is, this isn’t just about whether the Affordable Care Act works,” said Dr. Benjamin D. Sommers, an assistant professor at Harvard’s School of Public Health and former researcher for the Health and Human Services Department, who has analyzed the remaining uninsured population. “It’s also about whether the effort to expand coverage has gone far enough. ” The Affordable Care Act was not intended to cover everyone, the way that   systems in many other countries do. Undocumented immigrants, for example, are largely shut out of the health insurance system. And because the system requires people to actively sign up for insurance and often pay a premium, there will always be some Americans too independent  —   or isolated  —   to seek insurance. But the law was certainly written to get insurance to far more people. The Medicaid expansion, for example, is meant to expand coverage to all Americans earning below a set income threshold  —   about $16, 000 for a single person. Adoption of the program has been substantial. But the Supreme Court dealt a major blow to that plan in 2012. The court determined that states could decide whether to expand, and 19 have still declined to do so. Those decisions leave more than three million people who are in poverty uninsured and without good options for obtaining health insurance. The law was written to give poor people coverage through Medicaid, not the private marketplace, so it does not provide financial assistance for buying coverage. The census report highlighted an increasing gap in the uninsured rates between states that expanded their programs and states that did not. There is another large group of   Americans  —   about nine million, according to recent calculations from the Urban Institute  —   who are eligible for Medicaid or the related Children’s Health Insurance Program but have not signed up. The online marketplaces, which play a critical role under the law in reducing the number of people without coverage, also remain volatile. Fewer people than expected have signed up for plans through the marketplaces, and the enticements are not improving. Prices are set to rise substantially next year. And in many places, people who enroll will have fewer insurers to choose from. Millions of people qualify for subsidies to buy into the plans. But many   people who qualify for small subsidies have still found the plans to be unaffordable or a poor value. And people who make more and do not qualify for much or any government aid  —   especially those who are healthy  —   have been less likely to enroll. That has kept the mix of people in the pool sicker  —   and more expensive to insure  —   than expected. “These gains in coverage don’t negate the need to make the insurance marketplaces sustainable,” Larry Levitt, an executive with the Kaiser Family Foundation, which closely tracks the insurance market, said in an email. “In fact, coverage needs to grow more, with additional healthy people signing up, to stabilize the individual insurance market. ” Insurers say it is imperative that the people who sign up are not just the sickest people. “We need to encourage younger and healthier people to enroll,” said Alissa Fox, a senior executive at the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, a trade group. Before the Affordable Care Act, most   Americans got insurance from their jobs, and that continues to be true. According to the Census Bureau, employer coverage has held steady since 2013. Many critics of the health law had predicted it would result in a huge   in employer coverage. That has not happened. In fact, the persistent strength of employer coverage has been one of the reasons enrollment in the state marketplaces has not been higher. On Wednesday, the Kaiser Family Foundation released its annual survey of employer health benefits. It found that the market remained stable, with no appreciable decline in the share of companies offering their employees coverage. While employees are typically paying a greater share of their medical bills, the cost of coverage went up modestly this year. The future trajectory of the uninsured numbers depends largely on the results of the next election. Though the health care law may have come to bear President Obama’s name, as Obamacare, its future will be shaped by the president who replaces him  —   and by the next Congress. Hillary Clinton has proposed an array of policies to expand outreach to the uninsured and increase financial assistance to   Americans buying health insurance, policies designed to bring more people into the health law’s programs. She has also proposed introducing public insurance programs for more Americans, including a Medicare   for   people. Mr. Trump, in contrast, has said he would repeal the health law and move to a more   system for health insurance sales, a proposal that is expected to result in a substantial increase in the number of Americans without health coverage. Republicans in the House have put out their own health proposal, also built on a total repeal of the president’s health law. “The stakes are huge,” said Linda J. Blumberg, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, who has suggested a series of policy changes to help expand coverage under the law. “You couldn’t be further apart in terms of the perspectives on what is needed here. ”