(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Hurricane Matthew is barreling toward the U. S. after killing nearly 300 people on its rampage through Haiti, above. The storm is expected to make landfall in Florida early Friday. (Follow our live coverage.) “You need to leave. Evacuate, evacuate, evacuate,” Gov. Rick Scott told the 1. 5 million residents in evacuation zones. “This storm will kill you. Time is running out. ” ____ 2. The N. S. A. contractor arrested on suspicion of stealing highly classified information, Harold Martin III, doesn’t fit any of the usual profiles of an “insider threat,” officials say. One of the officials described Mr. Martin, a Navy veteran, as a hoarder. He worked at the same consulting firm as Edward Snowden, but investigators suspect that he began taking material  —   some of it was code used to hack into the networks of foreign governments  —   before Mr. Snowden’s actions became public. ____ 3. Donald Trump says he should be elected because of his business acumen. But a close look at about 60 ventures started or promoted by him showed that   flopped or had problems. Mike Pence, Mr. Trump’s running mate, declared that Mr. Trump no longer wants to impose a temporary ban on Muslim immigrants  —   a significant reversal. And the places Hillary Clinton’s campaign views as most critical can be identified through the presence of a particularly powerful advocate: Michelle Obama. ____ 4. Your surgeon is probably a Republican and your psychiatrist is probably a Democrat. That’s according to our new data analysis, which found that physicians’ political leanings tend to vary according to their specialty. Urologists and anesthesiologists also tended to be registered Republicans, while   of doctors in infectious disease, psychiatry and pediatrics are Democrats. ____ 5. The Syrian war is often cast as a contest between competing rebel groups and the government of President Bashar  . The truth is messier. A tangled array of allies is fighting on the government’s behalf, including Iraqi militias, Iranian Revolutionary Guards, Afghan refugees and Hezbollah. They’re backed by Russia, but not fully controlled by it, adding to the chaos on the ground. ____ 6. West Bank settlers are preparing for a clash with the Israeli government. One flagship settlement, Amona, was the site of a bloody 2006 confrontation between settlers and thousands of police officers sent to raze nine homes. Now the Supreme Court has ordered that the entire outpost be dismantled by Dec. 25. Israel plans to move residents to a nearby settlement. The Obama administration has condemned that plan. ____ 7. Governments from more than 190 countries adopted a measure to reduce the climate impact of international jet travel. Rather than reduce emissions, the plan calls for carriers to buy credits  —   things like forest conservation programs  —   to offset them. The measure takes effect in 2021. But it will be voluntary for the first six years, and countries can opt out. ____ 8. A surge in deaths from drug overdoses across the U. S. has become a lifeline for people waiting for organ transplants. “It’s an unexpected silver lining to what is otherwise a pretty horrendous situation,” said Alexandra Glazier, chief executive of the New England Organ Bank. ____ 9. “From now on, this is it. Humans will never get older than 115. ” That’s according to an expert on aging who, with two graduate students, published evidence that we might have hit our ceiling on longevity. Not everyone agrees. And for the sake of Yisrael Kristal, who celebrated his bar mitzvah last weekend at the youthful age of 113, let’s remember that there are always outliers. Mr. Kristal, who was imprisoned at Auschwitz during the Holocaust, is the world’s oldest man. ____ 10. “The Birth of a Nation,” the debut film from the director Nate Parker, above, hits theaters Friday. The film dramatizes the slave rebellion led by Nat Turner, played by Mr. Parker, in Virginia in 1831. It was billed as the   movie of the year. But details that emerged about a 1999 sexual assault case involving Mr. Parker made it simultaneously the “won’ ” movie of the year, our critic writes. ____ 11. Finally, New Yorkers can now remain close to their pets even after death. A new law allows pets to be buried alongside their owners in cemeteries meant for people. It can be a dog, a cat, a turtle  —   any domestic animal. “It’s like having a kid, so it’s like having a kid buried next to you,” a pet owner said. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.