WASHINGTON  —   Federal Reserve officials expect Donald J. Trump’s election to result in somewhat faster economic growth over the next several years, but they see little chance of the boom Mr. Trump has promised, according to an account of the Fed’s most recent meeting in  . That is in part because the Fed plans to raise interest rates more quickly if growth accelerates. For now, however, Fed officials plan to wait and see what happens next, the account said. “While the Fed signaled that it would likely respond to expansionary fiscal policies with a faster pace of rate hikes, the Fed believes it is too early to embed this into its baseline,” Michael Gapen, chief United States economist at Barclays, wrote on Wednesday following the release of the minutes. “Any real shift in the stance of monetary policy will require more clarity on the stance of fiscal policy. ” At the December meeting, the Fed raised its benchmark rate for just the second time since 2008, citing the continued expansion of the economy and the steady decline of unemployment. The Fed debated and delayed that increase for most of last year, but the account published on Wednesday  —   after a standard   delay  —   described the final decision as uncontroversial. Officials instead spent the meeting talking about what comes next. Mr. Trump has promised a bevy of major changes in economic policy, including tax cuts and spending increases, reductions in regulation, and restrictions on trade and immigration. As a result, the account said, Fed officials regard both faster growth and slower growth as more likely than before the election, when the economy seemed locked into its longstanding pattern of slow and steady growth. “The job of conducting U. S. monetary policy has not become any easier over recent months,” said James Marple, senior economist at TD Bank, referring to the increased uncertainty. The Fed, led by Janet L. Yellen, the chairwoman, predicted in December that it would raise rates three times this year. The account said officials were not yet ready to predict how the pace of rate increases might change as a result of new policies pursued by Mr. Trump and Congress. “Participants emphasized their uncertainty about the timing, size and composition of any future fiscal and other economic policy initiatives as well as about how those policies might affect aggregate demand and supply,” the minutes said. The Fed’s   committee, the Federal Open Market Committee, has 17 members, 10 of whom cast votes on monetary policy. The Fed’s caution amounts to a bias in favor of growth. The economy is expanding at roughly the pace Fed officials regard as sustainable. The work force is growing slowly as more baby boomers retire, and productivity is rising slowly. Two percent growth may be about as good as it gets. Ms. Yellen has warned that fiscal stimulus, like a tax cut or a spending increase, could increase economic growth to an unsustainable pace in the near term, resulting in increased inflation. The Fed quite likely would seek to offset such policies by raising interest rates more quickly. Instead of acting   the Fed is choosing to wait for more information. But the minutes said officials were concerned about the challenge of communicating their increased uncertainty. They want to be clear that the Fed’s prediction about the pace of rate increases depends on its prediction about economic growth. Faster growth will mean faster increases. The account said Fed officials were confident in their ability to raise rates quickly enough to prevent overheating, seeing “only a modest risk” of a “sharp acceleration in prices. ” By holding rates at low levels, the Fed has sought to increase economic growth by encouraging borrowing and   higher rates reduce the stimulative effect. The benchmark rate now sits in a range from 0. 5 percent to 0. 75 percent, still very low by historical standards. “Consumers have no reason to panic about the rate hike last month, or even about additional rate increases in 2017,” said Alan MacEachin, chief corporate economist at Navy Federal Credit Union. He noted that the last rate hike would add $1 to the monthly payment on a $5, 000 credit card balance. The economic forecast prepared by the Fed’s staff for the December meeting anticipated that Mr. Trump’s election would result in “slightly higher” growth over the next several years. It said a likely increase in fiscal stimulus would be “substantially counterbalanced” by higher interest rates and a stronger dollar, which would reduce exports of American goods and services. Several Fed officials reported that Mr. Trump’s election had increased optimism among business executives in their districts. “Some contacts thought that their businesses could benefit from possible changes in federal spending, tax and regulatory policies,” the minutes said. The minutes also noted, however, that some executives were concerned about the negative impact of proposed policy changes. In a recent interview, John Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said many executives in his district, which encompasses the western United States, worried about the potential impact of restrictions on immigration and on foreign trade, both of which have been important drivers of regional growth. Businesses across the country also reported increased difficulty in hiring qualified workers, the minutes said. The unemployment rate fell to just 4. 6 percent in November. The lack of readily available workers could further limit the benefits of a fiscal stimulus.