LAKE GEORGE, N. Y.  —   It was the height of summer, the end of one of those spectacular July days in the Adirondacks when the blistering afternoons give way to cooler evenings and waters, luring boaters out for a twilight cruise. On July 25, the Enchanted Evening, a   antique wooden boat, was making its way along the shoreline of Lake George, headed for Cramer Point on the west side of the lake. On board, Charlotte McCue, 8, was with her mother in the middle of the boat as her grandfather piloted the vessel when, out of nowhere, a   fiberglass power boat slammed into its side. The smaller craft, according to court documents and witnesses, was going so fast that it became airborne, lifting out of the water and sailing over the middle of the wooden boat. As it soared through the air, the boat hit Charlotte and her mother, Courtney McCue. Witnesses at a nearby campground heard screams and profanities and a man yelling, “Oh, dear God, no!” In a scene of unimaginable horror, the boat’s propeller mangled the girl, killing her instantly. The smaller boat stalled, then started again and drove off. The next day, Alexander M. West, 24, the driver of the smaller boat, turned himself in at the Warren County sheriff’s office. He was initially charged with leaving the scene of an accident. After an investigation, a grand jury on Monday indicted him on 12 new charges, including manslaughter, criminally negligent homicide, leaving the scene of an accident without reporting, boating while impaired by alcohol and drugs and criminal possession of a controlled substance, specifically cocaine. Mr. West could face up to 22 years in prison. At his arraignment here on Wednesday in a packed courtroom that included members of the girl’s family, Mr. West pleaded not guilty to all of the charges. Afterward, Cheryl Coleman, Mr. West’s defense lawyer, told reporters she was eager to take the case to trial. But she added she might seek a change of venue because statements by the prosecutor and the sheriff, Ms. Coleman said, had poisoned the potential jury pool. She cited a news conference during which Bud York, the sheriff, had discussed results of her client’s toxicology report. Ms. Coleman also emphasized that so far, only part of the story had emerged. In her 30 years of legal experience, she said, “I’ve never seen a case that is more different when you get on the inside than it looks on the outside. ” For now, the way it looks on the outside is extremely damaging to her client. In court documents, witnesses, all of whose names were redacted, have said that on the day of the crash, Mr. West and his four passengers had been drinking at Log Bay Day, an annual celebration on the lake. It began decades ago as a way for Lake George’s youthful summer work force to let off steam, but over the years it has evolved into an     bacchanal. After they left the festivities, Mr. West and his friends stopped for dinner on the lake and headed home. Then, one of the passengers, Matthew J. Marry, told the police, “We hit something. ” “When I looked back, I realized it was a boat we hit,” Mr. Marry, 28, of Kingsbury, N. Y. told the police. “We waved to the boat and asked if they were O. K. They just looked at us and kept driving. ” A member of the McCue family who was aboard the wooden boat told the police what happened from the family’s perspective. “All of a sudden, there was a bow of another boat charging up the right side of our boat near Courtney and Charlotte,” he said. “The boat cleared ours and Courtney screamed, ‘We’re hurt. ’” Charlotte was “mangled badly,” her head and body cut. “I just screamed, ‘No, no, no,’” the family member said. “I knew she was hurt bad, she wasn’t saying anything, her eyes were a different color  —   to me they looked dead. ” He added: “I just tried to hold her to keep her together. She was cut so bad. ” Not wanting anyone else to see Charlotte this way, he covered her with a blanket. At 9:24 that night, witnesses at a nearby campground heard the collision and the screams. “I then heard a boat speeding off toward the south,” a witness at the campground said, adding that a man in the boat that was speeding away was uttering profanities. The authorities have said a nearby homeowner provided them with video of the crash from his home security system. Shortly after the crash, an   police officer saw a boat pull into a nearby dock with its lights off, according to court papers. The officer said he heard one of the female passengers tell the others “not to talk about this or text about this, not to discuss it with anybody. ” None of the occupants of the boat reported the collision. The   officer reported what he had seen and heard, which led the police to Mr. West’s parents. At an arraignment in July on the earlier charge against Mr. West, prosecutors said a text from Mr. West’s mother, Cassandra West, indicated she may have been helping her son and his friends evade the police. A few weeks ago, she was involved in a serious motorcycle accident, and so far Ms. West has not been charged in this case. The four passengers on the power boat were charged with misdemeanors. Blood samples taken when Mr. West turned himself in, more than 12 hours after the crash, showed no alcohol in his system, but toxicology reports showed he had ingested at least two illegal drugs. An investigator said in court papers that Mr. West was arrested because he had “cause to know that personal injury had been caused to another person by virtue of the force with which his boat hit the other boat, the screaming of the persons on board the boat he hit and the damage his boat sustained. ” The community here has been deeply shaken by the death and particularly the accusation that Mr. West left the scene. Several officials have called for ending the Log Bay Day celebration as well as for tighter boating regulations and increased lake patrols. Lake George has fewer boating restrictions than many other Adirondack lakes, and its   waters and the scenic backdrop of its mountains have long attracted tourists and recreationists. Although the lake is 32 miles long, sections of it are often crowded with boat traffic. At the arraignment in Warren County Court on Wednesday, Kate Hogan, the district attorney, asked Judge John S. Hall Jr. to increase Mr. West’s bail, saying he was a flight risk, but she did not specify an amount. Although he lives here with his family, he has a Colorado driver’s license, she said, and travels west in winter to ski. Ms. Hogan said the defendant had reason to flee because the evidence against him was so compelling. And, she added, the charges against him include leaving the scene of an accident. “The very nature of this charge is him not stopping and doing what he should have done under the law,” Ms. Hogan said. Judge Hall increased bail for Mr. West to $100, 000 in cash or a $300, 000 bail bond, up from $50, 000 in cash or a $100, 000 bail bond. Mr. West was led away in handcuffs. His lawyer said she expected to raise the necessary money to have him released from jail. The judge ordered the defense to file its next motions by Dec. 9. If the case goes to a trial, it could be held as soon as late April.