Good morning.  We’re trying something new for our readers in Asia and the Pacific region: a morning briefing to   your day.  What do you like? What do you want to see here? Email us with your feedback at asiabriefing@nytimes. com. Here’s what you need to know: •   Donald J. Trump is facing backlash over his choice of Stephen K. Bannon as his administration’s chief strategist. The move elevates the   nationalist movement Mr. Bannon nurtured while running Breitbart News, a website whose staples include articles linking migrants to the spread of disease. Mr. Bannon said Mr. Trump’s followers are patriots who are being tarred by the existence of racists and   “on the margins. ” Reports of racially charged assaults, graffiti attacks and other episodes have surged since Election Day, and the F. B. I. said that hate crimes rose 7 percent last year, driven by a rise in attacks against American Muslims. Many attacks have also been countered by acts of public support and solidarity. _____ • President Obama took questions from reporters for the first time since the election, portraying Mr. Trump as a pragmatist and stressing the importance of a peaceful transition. “Without copping out, I think it’s fair to say that it would not be appropriate for me to comment” on the choice of Mr. Bannon. Mr. Obama is about to fly to Greece, at the start of a final international tour that will also take him to Germany and Peru. He will try to soothe fears of the coming Trump presidency, but his leverage has been diminished and his legacy bruised. _____ • Mr. Trump continued to project his presidency onto the world stage. He spoke with Xi Jinping of China and Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Russia has embraced Mr. Trump’s election. The State Duma, or parliament, broke into applause on news of his victory. Mr. Trump, who has threatened to confront China on a range of trade issues, promised Mr. Xi that the two nations would have “one of the strongest relationships. ” _____ • Hong Kong’s High Court ruled that two   politicians who were elected to the legislature cannot take their seats. Sixtus Leung, 30, known as Baggio, and Yau   25, set off the conflict by using what some consider a derogatory term for China when they took their oaths of office. Beijing reacted by issuing a new interpretation of Hong Kong’s Basic Law, challenging the territory’s semiautonomous status. _____ • The International Criminal Court is considering a   investigation in Afghanistan, after a prosecutor said she had a “reasonable basis to believe” that American soldiers there committed war crimes, including torture. • Samsung is spending $8 billion to acquire Harman International Industries, an American company best known for   car stereos, like   and JBL. The deal gives Samsung a stake in   connected cars, which could mean a boom in screens, computers and connectivity. Its stock rose 25. 6 percent. • Japan’s G. D. P. figures surprised analysts with strong economic growth in the third quarter despite declining consumer prices and deflation. Our analyst looks at whether the trend will last. • The National Geographic Channel has reinvented itself under the leadership of James Murdoch at its parent, 21st Century Fox. Part of the makeover is a shift to   shows like “Mars,” a new     by Ron Howard. • U. S. markets closed lower, and oil was down. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • A Malaysian lawmaker was given 18 months in prison for disclosing classified information from an official audit of a   investment fund linked to Prime Minister Najib Razak. [The New York Times] • The   venture capitalist Eric Li argues that relations between China and the U. S. may suffer over trade, but could improve if the U. S. stops trying to remake the world in its own image. [The New York Times] • Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, was questioned in London about a rape accusation in Sweden in 2010. [The New York Times] • President Rodrigo Duterte said that if Islamic State militants came to the Philippines, he would not let his “people be slaughtered for the sake of human rights. ” [Reuters] • Japan’s government plans to increase medical checkups for older drivers after a wave of fatal traffic accidents. [Asahi Shimbun] • If all the railways projects proposed for Southeast Asia were built, here is a map of how the region would look. [The Diplomat] • Canada’s government is under scrutiny for blocking an arms deal with Thailand over factors including human rights abuses, just months after exporting $15 billion in combat vehicles to Saudi Arabia, which has a poorer rights record. [Globe and Mail] • China’s nationalist resurgence is on display in “The Long March,” above, a new opera about the early days of the Communist Party. [The New York Times] • Gwen Ifill, an   television journalist who moderated   debates in 2004 and 2008, died of cancer in Washington. She was 61. • And Pizza, the polar bear used to lure shoppers to a mall in southern China, will be temporarily moved while his   enclosure is “optimized and upgraded. ” Animal rights groups say the move doesn’t go nearly far enough. Two Chinese astronauts expect to leave their space lab this week, after a monthlong stay that is a first for their nation. China has poured billions of dollars into its space program, aiming to rival the United States and Russia in reaching Mars. Such programs are enormous drivers of technological innovation. So it might come as a surprise to know that space communications rely on an old standby: radio waves. Speech from an astronaut, video from cameras and data from sensors flow into a transmitter, which emits radio waves picked up by a terrestrial receiver. Terrestrial transmitters reverse the favor. The same basic technology sends music to your radio, YouTube videos to your cellphone and photos from Pluto. There really isn’t any alternative until we figure out how to use lasers to convey data. There’s been a lot of   of radio capabilities over the 125 years or so that scientists have been playing with electromagnetic radiation. We have great antennas and efficient, secure encoding now. But the technology is also good for a simple call from home. Last week, China’s president, Xi Jinping, called the space lab. “Everyone across China cares very much about both of you,” Mr. Xi said. One astronaut proudly said, “I will go forth, and successfully complete the mission. ” Andrea Kannapell contributed reporting.  _____ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.