WASHINGTON  —   Hillary Clinton assailed Donald J. Trump on Friday as untrustworthy on women’s issues, sharpening her tone against him in her first major speech since becoming the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee. Finally free to focus on the general election, Mrs. Clinton signaled that she planned to hit her likely Republican opponent in an area of perceived weakness while working to mend fissures within her own party by focusing on issues dear to progressives, such as protecting abortion rights and funding for Planned Parenthood. “When Donald Trump says, ‘Let’s make America great again,’ that is code for let’s take America backward,” Mrs. Clinton said at a Planned Parenthood Action Fund event in Washington. In a   speech, Mrs. Clinton seized on Mr. Trump’s suggestion in March that abortion be banned and that women who violate such a ban face punishment. Although he later retracted the remark amid a bipartisan backlash, Mrs. Clinton made clear that she would not let it go. “Anyone who would so casually agree with the idea of punishing women, like it was nothing to him, the most obvious thing in the world, that’s someone who doesn’t hold women in high regard,” Mrs. Clinton said to loud applause. Mrs. Clinton said that protecting Planned Parenthood’s funding was a top priority amid an onslaught from Republicans who have threatened to shut down the government over its opposition to the organization. She also called for the repeal of the Hyde Amendment, which bans the use of government money for abortions. Mrs. Clinton has struggled at times this year to appeal to younger women, but she does not expect that to be a problem against Mr. Trump. Her campaign plans to regularly remind female voters about his penchant for making sexist remarks, such as referring to women as “fat pigs” and “dogs. ” On Friday she quoted Mr. Trump as saying that he thought   leave made the country less competitive and that women should work harder if they wanted to earn more. Mr. Trump has said that he will be better for women than Mrs. Clinton, but polls show that so far he is turning them off in a big way. A Gallup survey from April found that 70 percent of women in the country had an unfavorable opinion him. By making Planned Parenthood Action her first campaign stop after capturing the nomination, Mrs. Clinton demonstrated that, instead of making a quick pivot to the center, she is intent on rallying the Democratic base after a bruising primary campaign against Senator Bernie Sanders. Another important step toward party unity came on Thursday night when Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts offered a rousing endorsement of Mrs. Clinton. The two women met privately on Friday morning in Washington to discuss the party’s path forward and how to beat Mr. Trump in November. Ms. Warren is a favorite of the progressive wing of the party and has become one of its most vocal and effective critics of Mr. Trump. She described Mr. Trump as a “racist bully” in a speech on Wednesday night and made a forceful case for Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy. The meeting Friday could also fan speculation that Ms. Warren is on Mrs. Clinton’s shortlist of potential running mates. While she has maintained that she loves her current job, Ms. Warren did say Thursday night on MSNBC that she felt she had the capacity to be president. For now Mrs. Clinton is taking on Mr. Trump on her own, and after a difficult week for him in which he drew widespread condemnation for making racist remarks about a federal judge, she is not holding back. She mocked him for walking back his claim that Judge Gonzalo P. Curiel  —   who is presiding over a lawsuit against Trump University  —   was biased because of his Mexican heritage and lamented Mr. Trump’s disparaging treatment of a disabled reporter. Both were examples, she said, of how a Trump presidency would be problematic for more than just women. “Donald Trump would take us in the wrong direction on so many issues that we care about,” Mrs. Clinton said. “He does not see all Americans as Americans. ”