(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Will Hillary Clinton get a convention bounce?  That’s what Democrats were asking Friday, as the final sprint of the presidential campaign began. Mrs. Clinton and her running mate, Senator Tim Kaine, embarked on a campaign tour that will take them through Pennsylvania and Ohio. Donald Trump, who was heading to Colorado, criticized Mrs. Clinton’s acceptance speech, saying she “ ‘forgot’ to mention the many problems of our country. ” _____ 2. Email accounts connected to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign were hacked in an attack that appears to have come from Russia’s intelligence services, a federal law enforcement official said. If Russia did engineer the hack, as well as last week’s leak of emails from the Democratic National Committee, the moves may represent an escalation of the international information wars. Analysts have long said that hacking between countries is likely to expand, as the method gives states a   method to meddle in one another’s affairs. As our reporter points out, though, their very appeal gives these    tactics the potential to make the international arena more volatile. _____ 3. “Donald Trump, you’re asking Americans to trust you with their future. Let me ask you, have you even read the United States Constitution?” That question was part of an emotional speech delivered on the final night of the Democratic National Convention by Khizr Khan, the Muslim father of an Army captain who died more than a decade ago during the war in Iraq. Mr. Khan emphasized the importance of liberty and equal protection under the law, telling Mr. Trump, “You have sacrificed nothing and no one. ” _____ 4. The American economy continues to expand at a sluggish rate. From April to June, it grew only at a rate of 1. 2 percent, well below the 2. 5 percent that analysts had expected. But there is good news: Wages are beginning to rise more quickly, and consumer spending grew enormously. In Europe, a surge of terrorist attacks has hurt businesses, and Japan’s central bank decided not to take certain extreme measures to boost a flagging economy. _____ 5. A federal appeals court struck down North Carolina’s   voter identification requirement The requirement, imposed as a part of changes to voting rules in 2013, has been criticized by civil rights groups as unfairly targeting   and other minorities. The court’s decision, delivered only months after the requirement was upheld by a Federal District Court judge, upended voting procedures in a state that tends to be up for grabs in presidential elections. And in Wisconsin, a federal judge ruled that parts of the state’s voter ID law are unconstitutional, noting that “a preoccupation with mostly phantom election fraud leads to real incidents of disenfranchisement. ” _____ 6. Florida announced that four cases of Zika found in Miami were most likely caused by infected mosquitoes. The three men and one woman infected are the first people believed to have contracted the virus from insects in the continental United States. The news signifies a new phase in the life of an epidemic that has already spread through dozens of countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, causing hundreds of birth defects. _____ 7. Houston, we have competition. Seattle is becoming fertile ground for outer     as the commercial space race heats up. The city is home to two tech billionaires who are funding efforts to make space more accessible. They have been joined by a smattering of smaller companies aiming for the stars. As the head of one such effort put it, “I think we’re putting the space back into the Space Needle. ” _____ 8. Maggie Nolting has some unusual accomplishments under her belt. A    actress, Ms. Nolting ran a   on crutches in May after breaking a foot. She finished with a time good enough to beat 43 people who were running on both feet. She also holds the record for fastest ascent of Mount Kilimanjaro on crutches. Ms. Nolting has some tips for   crutch racers: Wrap the tops with sports shirts and smear your underarms with an antichafing gel wear the thickest gloves you can find and optimize your hop. _____ 9. After all the roommate drama of your 20s, it’s nice to imagine a home of your own. But some New Yorkers, priced out of the city’s real estate game, have given up that dream, finding that pooling resources with friends can more quickly make homeownership a reality. “It’s a really good way for people to work the system,” says one real estate saleswoman. “Not everybody has that money for a down payment. _____ 10. It’s tough to find a contemporary comedian whose jokes are appropriate for kids. That’s what our comedy critic found when he took his daughter to see a show, and ended up keeping his hands over her ears for a significant part of the night. If you are set on doing the same, he suggests checking with the theater in advance  —   or simply buying tickets to see Jim Gaffigan, above, a comedian so   that he has performed for the pope. _____ 11. It’s the weekend, and while many of you are surely excited to groove your worries away, others may be reluctant to set foot anywhere near a dance floor. Believe it or not, professional dancers have the same problem. Some worry about being treated like “show horses” others have trouble translating formal training into fun. “When I started going out, my   mind was always looking to be ‘correct,’ ” one dancer says. “Eventually I saw that   is completely antithetical to the vibe of a good dance party. ” _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.