An unsettling thing happened at the Olympic diving pool on Tuesday: the water inexplicably turned green, just in time for the women’s synchronized   platform diving competition. Officials said they did not know what caused the trouble, exactly. But they declared the water had been tested and was not dangerous. It was an unsettling sight, appearing to become greener and murkier as the day went on, having been a lovely light blue on Monday. The British diver Tom Daley, who won a bronze medal in the same pool the day before, posted a photograph on Twitter showing the contrast between the colors of the pools. “Ermmmm  —   what happened?” he said. The adjoining pool at the aquatic center, used for synchronized swimming and water polo, remained its normal blue color, which made the extreme greenness of the diving pool all the more striking. Meanwhile, diving practice went on as planned, and so did the women’s synchronized event. Competitors generally said that the swampiness of the water did not put them off their form, although they found it weird and puzzling. “I’ve never dived in anything like it,” said Britain’s Tonia Couch, who finished fifth, along with Lois Coulson. Here is the full article, including an interview with a pool repairman in California who has some ideas about what might be causing the greenness. Katie Ledecky picked up her second gold medal of the Rio Games, and Michael Phelps racked up the 20th and 21st of his career Tuesday. Ledecky won the 200 freestyle, expected to be the toughest of her individual races. Here’s how the race went down. Phelps won his signature event, the 200 butterfly and exulted afterward, gesturing as if to say he’d take on all comers. To top it off, he later swam the anchor of the men’s   freestyle, which the U. S. won easily. Here’s a look at Phelps’s night. Serena Williams lost in the round of 16 of the tennis tournament at the Rio Olympics on Tuesday, capping a disappointing Games for the Williams sisters. Williams lost to   Elina Svitolina of Ukraine,    . In the last moments of the match, Williams, the defending gold medalist, was emotional, shaking her head and yelling at herself. Simone Biles, Laurie Hernandez, Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas and Madison Kocian lived up to expectations as prohibitive favorites by putting up the highest total score in every apparatus. Russia won silver and China bronze. The margin of victory was a whopping 8 points. See how they did it here. How to Watch: NBC broadcasts on a tape delay, but you can stream all the events here. In the wake of last night’s swimming drama, Karen Crouse reports that there is a lot of divisiveness by the pool. It stems from an issue that is hardly new: doping. What is different is how some athletes have chosen to publicly criticize competitors who have a history of using   drugs. They say they no longer have faith that international sports officials are committed to protecting clean athletes. Read Karen’s article here. Olympics officials on Tuesday identified four athletes who were among the dozens who were found to have positive doping tests in recent   of samples from the last two Summer Olympics. Among them was a medalist, Oleksandr Pyatnytsya of Ukraine, who placed second in the javelin throw at the London Games in 2012. Pyatnytsya, who tested positive for the anabolic steroid turinabol, was ordered to return his silver medal, medalist pin and diploma, the Olympic committee said. The other Olympians sanctioned were Hripsime Khurshudyan of Armenia and Nuracan Taylan of Turkey  —   two female weight lifters who competed in Beijing in 2008  —   and Pavel Kryvitski of Belarus, who competed in the hammer throw in London. Rule 23 of the Olympic charter states that the Olympics have two official languages. Michaëlle Jean, secretary general of the International Organization of la Francophonie, is determined to make sure nobody forgets that one of them is French (the other is English). Read Sarah Lyall’s article here.