Robben Island in South Africa is getting to be notorious again  —   and this time it’s not for racial oppression. The   prison on the island is now a tourist attraction, where visitors from around the world pause with reverence outside the cell where Nelson Mandela was kept. The ferry ride back to the mainland merely deepens the sense of isolation that the inmates must have felt. But the waters surrounding Robben Island, just off the coast near Cape Town, also happen to be among the richest in the world for delicious shellfish  —   especially abalone, which is highly prized in Asia. That has made the island a hot spot for shellfish poaching. At night, when the island is closed to tourists, poachers in inflatable boats known as rubber ducks often make their way toward its rocky coastline and dive illegally in the shallows in search of the mollusks. One night in May, the authorities were tipped off to a poaching excursion and went on watch. Around 4 a. m. a boat was spotted pulling into a harbor with its lights turned off  —   a dead giveaway. Officials from a special police task force and the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries stood ready. But the poachers saw the law enforcement boats and sped off, eventually abandoning their vessel and vanishing on shore. The authorities seized 2, 858 pieces of abalone worth $68, 400. Abalone can be found along much of South Africa’s coast, but their numbers have been declining rapidly because of overfishing and poaching. Commercial catches are now severely restricted, and recreational fishing for abalone has been banned for more than a decade. But demand from Asia remains strong. Abalone grow slowly, taking seven years to reach sexual maturity and one or two more to reach the minimum size to be taken legally. That way, they ought to get at least a little time to reproduce and replace themselves. (Left alone, abalone can live 30 years or more.) But the poachers pay little heed to sustainability. The fisheries department says that   of the abalone it confiscates from poachers are younger and smaller than the legal minimum, and that the waters around Robben Island have been particularly hard hit.