Cilic, 27, won his first Masters 1000 tournament at Cincinnati on Aug. 21 and vaulted back into the top 10 with a   victory over Andy Murray, the reigning Wimbledon and Olympic champion. Cilic, who had three match points against Roger Federer in the Wimbledon quarterfinals, kept Murray off balance with a nearly unreturnable wide slice serve, followed by flat bombs up the middle. After parting ways with his longtime coach Goran Ivanisevic, Cilic hired Jonas Bjorkman to help strengthen his forehand and his return, both of which let him down in crucial moments against Federer at Wimbledon. Against Murray at Cincinnati, Cilic returned brilliantly. Cilic is seeded seventh at the United States Open, and his rising level of play suggests that he could be rounding into the kind of form that led him to the title in 2014. With his classic technique and his flowing   backhand, Dimitrov has long been compared to Roger Federer, his idol. But Dimitrov, a    Bulgarian nicknamed Baby Fed, has struggled to live up to the lofty expectations of his early years on tour. At Cincinnati, he reached the semifinals before succumbing to Marin Cilic in three sets. Dimitrov played with remarkable discipline and attention to detail, reining in his tendency to try for a flashy winner in favor of playing   shots. Since Wimbledon, he has been working with Dani Vallverdu, who spent several years coaching Andy Murray, and the results look promising. Seeded 22nd, Dimitrov looks determined to reach his considerable potential. Since his stunning victory over Roger Federer in the 2009 United States Open final, del Potro has been sidelined for long periods by injuries to both wrists. But he has persevered against long odds to return to top form. Del Potro, a laconic Argentine, rejoined the tour full time this year and has steadily improved his conditioning and his match toughness. It all came together at the Olympics, where he beat Novak Djokovic in the first round and Rafael Nadal in the semifinals before narrowly losing the gold medal match to Andy Murray. Ranked 142nd, del Potro, 27, needed a wild card to get into the Open, but his return bolsters a draw weakened by the absence of Federer. With his blistering serve and his overpowering forehand, del Potro has the weapons to thrive on quick hardcourts. But it is his love of the battle that makes him a crowd favorite. After losing to Simona Halep in a tight final in Montreal, Keys reached the semifinals at the Olympics and then lost a heartbreaking   match for the bronze medal to Petra Kvitova. It is clear that Keys, a    American, is gaining confidence with each   match. After skipping the Cincinnati event and withdrawing from the Connecticut Open with a neck injury, Keys enters the United States Open as the eighth seed and should be fresh. With her powerful serve and her   groundstrokes, Keys has the ideal game to win on fast hardcourts. And as the youngest American player in the top 10, she should be buoyed by the crowd. While dominating the field at Cincinnati, Pliskova gave up only four games in her semifinal victory over the reigning French Open champion, Garbiñe Muguruza. In the final, Pliskova equaled that feat with a breathtaking display of power tennis, outhitting Angelique Kerber in nearly every baseline exchange to win,    . A       Czech, Pliskova has a booming serve and follows that up with clean, flat groundstrokes that push opponents deep behind the baseline. What sets her apart from her peers is her willingness to play stingy defense when necessary. She tracks down nearly every ball and has an uncanny knack for restarting points with neutralizing shots that frustrate opponents even more than her    winners do. Although the   Pliskova has never advanced past the third round of a major, her remarkable play at Cincinnati makes her a serious Open contender. At 22, Puig made history this month by winning Puerto Rico’s first Olympic gold medal, defeating three former Grand Slam champions (Garbiñe Muguruza, Petra Kvitova and Angelique Kerber) along the way. Puig played to win and went after her opponents on the big points with fearless ball striking. She has a somewhat unorthodox   backhand, hit with a loose and whiplike backswing, but it is deceptive, accurate and lethal. The confidence she gained from her momentous win in Rio de Janeiro is hard to calculate, but Puig showed that she could compete with anyone in the world. Seeded 32nd at the Open, she will be a dangerous presence in the draw.