After the explosion on West 23rd Street on Saturday night, the police did what they typically do when they suspect a bomb has gone off. They spread out and began looking for unexploded bombs  —   what those on the New York Police Department’s bomb squad call “secondaries. ” Officers began searching block by block, going as far south as 14th Street and as far north as 34th Street. A few hours into the effort, two state troopers participating in the search found what appeared to be one, on West 27th Street, about four blocks above the explosion. On the sidewalk on the north side of the street, there was a pressure cooker with a cellphone attached to it, law enforcement officials said. A photograph of the device shared on social media shows the cookware, with wires and the cellphone. The authorities confirmed that the photo was authentic. The police have not said whether a tip helped lead the troopers to the device or whether the officers discovered it entirely unaided. “They circled the block and they parked their vehicle and actually walked down the block, and that’s how they found it,” the city’s new police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, said at a news conference on Sunday. “They did a great job. ” The police used a robot to inspect the device and place it in what is called a “total containment vessel,” a spherical chamber hitched to a police truck. The vehicle set off east on West 27th Street around 2:25 a. m. turning north on Avenue of the Americas and then heading toward the Bronx. The total containment vessel is essentially an   diving vessel, Lt. Mark Torre, the commanding officer of the department’s bomb squad, said in an interview in July. “Instead of keeping the pressure out and keeping you alive in five fathoms of water, it keeps the pressure in,” he explained. Should a bomb explode inside, tiny vents allow pressure to escape. “It sounds like a hammer hitting a piece of steel,” he said. It was not clear how many such vessels the department has, but it appears to be at least three. In 2014, the department put out an advertisement in search of a company that “feels it can provide services necessary to refurbish three existing total containment vessels,” according to contracting records. Such vessels are often capable of containing a blast of 25 pounds of TNT or more, and they are increasingly a common piece of equipment for police agencies across the country. Even the campus force for the University of Georgia has one. Because the purpose of the vessel is to contain the blast, the bomb squad does not typically close streets when it drives through the city with a bomb in the containment vessel. The police brought the device to Rodman’s Neck, a peninsula in the Bronx where the police have a facility. It is where many suspicious packages and much unexploded ordnance ends up, for the bomb squad to disassemble or blow up in a controlled environment. The police have said little about what the bomb squad has learned about the device found on West 27th Street. It appeared to resemble in some ways the devices used in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. The Boston Marathon bombers, the brothers Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, appeared to have gotten their plans for the two   bombs they placed at the finishing line from Inspire, the   magazine published online by Al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen. Each issue includes    instructions on building bombs and mounting attacks. By Sunday afternoon, the bomb squad was struggling to find a way to open the device that minimized the risk of an explosion, a law enforcement official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the continuing investigation. Much about the device remained unknown. But if it was similar to the one that exploded on West 23rd Street, it was powerful. That explosion sent a Dumpster well over 100 feet down the street, the official said. On Sunday, after the police used a small controlled explosion to disable the device, it was being sent to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s laboratory in Quantico, Va.