President Vladimir V. Putin laid the groundwork this week for a possible   of Russian sports leadership in the wake of a doping controversy that has implicated government officials. At a state sports meeting in Kovrov, Russia, Mr. Putin outlined a broad strategy to redeem the country with global Olympic officials five months after a former director of Russia’s antidoping laboratory detailed a cheating scheme executed by the Russian state. Mr. Putin said that Alexander Zhukov, head of the Russian Olympic Committee since 2010, would step down two years before his term was set to expire, to focus on a new role in the Russian parliament. Before naming his successor, Mr. Putin said, the government would consult with the International Olympic Committee, which has established a disciplinary commission that is set to consider penalties for Russia ahead of the next Winter Games, in 2018. Pointing to Russia’s   finish in the medal standings at this year’s Rio Games  —   behind the United States, China and Britain  —   Mr. Zhukov and Mr. Putin on Tuesday praised Russia’s Olympic delegation for its “ability to take a punch” amid “an aggressive information campaign against Russian athletes. ” Noting that Russia won no medals in diving in Rio, Mr. Zhukov suggested the country recruit specialists from China, given its dominance in the sport. Mr. Putin also hinted at possible changes in Russian sports leadership, announcing a new government position to oversee sports, tourism and youth policy. It was not immediately clear whether that expanded portfolio would be taken on by Vitaly Mutko, Russia’s sports minister. “Importantly, these are the first steps on the path of reform in the sports sector,” Mr. Putin said, denouncing the “prejudice against our athletes” and doping in sports while assuming hazy responsibility for “a number of errors and miscalculations in this important and very sensitive area. ” He said government authorities and a newly created antidoping commission were focused on redeeming Russia’s standing in global sports. Russia’s track and field team remains barred from global competition, its Paralympic team suspended and its national antidoping agency decertified by the global antidoping regulator. Mr. Putin emphasized the government’s financial support of Russia’s antidoping activities, including its annual contributions to the World   Agency, which has made Russia the subject of several investigations over the last year. He suggested a change in the structure of Russia’s antidoping system, proposing to distance it from the sports ministry and instead have it managed by Russia’s Olympic committee. Since the country’s former lab director, Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, outlined in May the precise contours of a   doping system in an interview with The New York Times, Mr. Putin and the country’s top sports officials, including Mr. Zhukov and Mr. Mutko, have been publicly defiant. They called Dr. Rodchenkov, who fled to the United States, a traitor and insisted that his account was fabricated while obliquely acknowledging doping was a “black spot” on the country. But an investigation commissioned by WADA produced proof of Dr. Rodchenkov’s claims, along with evidence establishing Mr. Mutko’s deputy minister, Yuri Nagornykh, as critical in covering up the use of   drugs by top athletes at the 2014 Sochi Olympics, as well as in the years before and after. Mr. Nagornykh disputed The Times’s report in May. After the antidoping regulator published the results of its inquiry in July, Mr. Putin suspended him. Although Mr. Mutko was named in the report as having been complicit in the system, his status as minister has remained steady. Still, the revelations left Russian sports officials scrambling to defend the country’s participation in the Rio Olympics mere weeks before they began. Mr. Zhukov was a key ambassador in that crusade, maintaining that the Russian Olympic Committee was independent of the government and unaffected by any shadows cast on the country’s sports ministry. (Mr. Nagornykh, however, had occupied overlapping roles as deputy minister and a Russian Olympic Committee official.) In the days before Russia’s Olympic roster was completed, Mr. Zhukov politicked at a hotel in Rio and pledged that his country’s delegation would be the purest of any at the Games, given the level of scrutiny applied to it. Mr. Mutko, however, was refused admittance to the Olympics and did not travel to Rio with Russia’s team, which was cut by nearly a third after sports officials deemed athletes tainted unless they proved a rigorous history of drug tests. Now, with Olympic officials anticipating the results of a second investigation this fall  —   which is expected to identify Russian athletes who benefited from the doping system  —   Russia is bracing itself for disciplinary action. Beyond jeopardizing the 33 medals Russia won at the Sochi Games  —   at least 15 of which Dr. Rodchenkov said were won by athletes who had used his   cocktail of anabolic steroids  —   possible penalties could extend to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, in February 2018. Some antidoping authorities who lobbied that the Russian flag not fly in Rio have called on Olympic officials to penalize Russia more severely. Joseph de Pencier, chief executive of the Institute of National   Organizations, said last week that he hoped “the reception of Russian athletes in Pyeongchang is very different than the one in Rio,” adding, “The I. O. C. can redeem itself. ” Mr. Putin also publicly waded into the nuances of antidoping protocols in sports this week, criticizing the practice of allowing athletes to use prohibited drugs for legitimate medical reasons. That topic has received global attention this fall, after Russian hackers breached WADA’s athlete database and published the private medical records of top athletes. Of the records the hackers have chosen to release, roughly half relate to American, British and Canadian athletes. The hackers identified themselves as Fancy Bear, a Russian cyberespionage group that forensics specialists have tied to breaches against government agencies, nonprofit organizations and corporations. The I. O. C. and WADA have denounced the hacks, which law enforcement authorities are investigating.