   Donald J. Trump is picking up the pace with his cabinet and top White House staff choices, and despite the fervent wishes of some Democrats that views expressed during the campaign would be moderated after the election, the new administration’s team is maintaining a decidedly conservative bent. Up next, secretary of defense? James N. Mattis, a retired Marine Corps general, will meet the   at Mr. Trump’s New Jersey country club on Saturday to discuss the post of defense secretary, according to two people close to the transition team. Conservatives this spring had wooed General Mattis to run for president as an independent as they sought an alternative to Mr. Trump. While he was receptive to the idea, he ultimately decided against running. “The thoughtfulness and patriotism  —   and for that matter, the modesty  —   Jim showed as he reflected on this decision make me more convinced than ever that he would have made a truly admirable president, and also a good candidate,” William Kristol, the editor of the conservative Weekly Standard, wrote at the time. General Mattis, 66, is widely respected in the military community and could bring with him a   staff of civilian experts. He was the head of the United States Central Command, which oversees all military operations in the Middle East, from 2010 to 2013 but crossed swords with President Obama over his push for a more aggressive presence in the Persian Gulf. Under federal law, a former military official must be out of uniform for seven years to become defense secretary. General Mattis retired three years ago, and Congress would have to grant him a waiver. But General Mattis is not the only candidate. Senator Tom Cotton, the hawkish military veteran from Arkansas, was in Trump Tower on Friday and is still in the hunt. Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s newly appointed chief strategist, has maintained a low profile since the election, but in an interview  in The Hollywood Reporter on Friday, he pushed back against accusations that intended to divide the country along racial lines, even as he embraced his dark image. On the one hand, he said: “I’m not a white nationalist, I’m a nationalist. I’m an economic nationalist. ” On the other hand, Michael Wolff wrote: Mr. Trump’s association with Mr. Bannon has been widely criticized because of racist conspiracy theories promoted on Breitbart. com, the   news website that Mr. Bannon was managing before joining Mr. Trump’s campaign. Mr. Bannon said in the interview that he expected Mr. Trump’s presidency would unsettle Republicans and Democrats alike with his aggressive and unconventional plans for rebuilding the country. “I’m the guy pushing a   infrastructure plan,” Mr. Bannon said. “With negative interest rates throughout the world, it’s the greatest opportunity to rebuild everything. ” Predicting a change that will outshine the Reagan revolution, he added: “Ship yards, iron works, get them all jacked up. We’re just going to throw it up against the wall and see if it sticks. ” He didn’t get attorney general. He’s still in the running for secretary of state, though the Trump team has let it be known that the former Trump nemesis Mitt Romney will be meeting with the   to discuss that job. So where is Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York and stalwart Trump loyalist? Spotted in Palm Beach, where he says he needs some rest. But don’t count him out. When asked whether Mr. Giuliani was a favorite to become secretary of state, Representative Devin Nunes of California, a member of the transition team’s executive committee, said he did not want to speculate. But Mr. Nunes lavished praised on Mr. Giuliani. “He would absolutely be a great secretary of state  —   he’s America’s mayor, is widely respected around the world and is a fine example of the type of person we want representing us abroad,” Mr. Nunes said. Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, won a Senate seat last week  —   and with it, one of the worst jobs in American politics: leader of the committee tasked with protecting incumbent colleagues and maybe winning a seat or two in 2018. Senator Chuck Schumer, the incoming minority leader, announced on Friday that Mr. Van Hollen would serve as chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee for the 2018 cycle. “Chris Van Hollen was our first choice for D. S. C. C. chairman because of his talents, his work ethic and his experience,” Mr. Schumer said in a statement. “The map is tough for Democrats, but I have no doubt that   Van Hollen is up to the task. ” Tough indeed: Democrats gained a mere two Senate seats on Election Day  —   New Hampshire and Illinois  —   and will be defending a daunting 23 seats in 2018, as well as two held by independents who caucus with them  —   Angus King of Maine and Bernie Sanders of Vermont  —   and roughly half of those states were won by   Trump. In contrast, Democrats have one real target, Senator Dean Heller of Nevada, and maybe two with Jeff Flake of Arizona if things go south for the new president. (Of note, Mr. Van Hollen knows the highs and lows of the job, having led the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee for his party’s 2008 wave, then getting washed out in the 2010 Republican deluge.) For anyone hoping for tempers to cool and partisans to moderate, welcome to the rest of 2016. The choice of Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama to be attorney general and Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas to be director of central intelligence  —   as well as Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn to be national security adviser  —   appear to have put to rest talk of a   period after Election Day. Conservative groups are ecstatic. The Trump transition team hailed Mr. Sessions as a champion of civil rights. “Senator Sessions is someone who’s universally respected across party lines in the United States Senate,” said Jason Miller, a Trump transition spokesman. The other side? Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois, said in a statement: “If you have nostalgia for the days when blacks kept quiet, gays were in the closet, immigrants were invisible and women stayed in the kitchen, Senator Jefferson Beauregard Sessions is your man. No senator has fought harder against the hopes and aspirations of Latinos, immigrants and people of color than Senator Sessions. ” Some Democrats kept their immediate challenges minimal for Mr. Pompeo. “As a member of the House Intelligence Committee, Congressman Pompeo has a firsthand appreciation for Congress’ responsibility to provide vigilant oversight of our nation’s intelligence activities, and I look forward to learning more about his views,” said Senator Mark R. Warner of Virginia, the incoming Senate Intelligence Committee vice chairman. On the other hand, Jon Soltz, chairman of the liberal veterans group VoteVets. org, greeted the selection of Mr. Pompeo by saying, “This administration is turning out to be as scary, bigoted and abnormal as most people feared. ” As for General Flynn? “Michael Flynn has shown a stunning contempt for the Geneva Conventions and other laws prohibiting torture,” said Sarah Margon, Washington director at Human Rights Watch. “By offering this key post to Flynn,   Trump is undermining U. S. commitments to international laws that have been broken to America’s detriment. ” Vice   Mike Pence told the news media on Friday that teams of transition staff members who will be working directly with federal agencies had arrived in Washington. “The   is a man of action, and we’ve got a great number of men and women with great qualifications looking forward to serving in this administration, and I am just humbled to be a part of it,” Mr. Pence said. He added, “I am very confident it will be a smooth transition that will serve to lead this country forward and make America great again. ” Mr. Pence walked away as a reporter asked whether the   was racist. Mr. Pompeo, the  ’s pick to direct the C. I. A. may also be a way for Mr. Trump to warm relations with the Koch Industries directors Charles G. and David H. Koch. Mr. Pompeo was first elected to Congress with a large amount of financial support and a prominent public endorsement from the Koch brothers, and the Kansas congressman has remained closely aligned with them since. Individuals associated with Koch Industries are by far the biggest donors to Mr. Pompeo’s political career, contributing $357, 000 to him since 2009. The Koch brothers  —   among the biggest players in financing Republican candidates nationwide  —   remained largely on the sidelines in this year’s presidential race. Mr. Pompeo has been a staunch proponent of bringing newly captured terrorism suspects to the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, for interrogation and   detention, as President Obama has refused to do. At a 2013 congressional hearing, Mr. Pompeo called the prison operation in Cuba lawful and humane, and dismissed a hunger strike among the detainees at the time as a “political stunt. ” “We are still engaged in a counterterrorism battle all around the globe that continue to need to have a secure location in which to detain captured enemy combatants remains,” Mr. Pompeo said. Mr. Pompeo has also been a defender of broad government surveillance programs and an opponent of limits the Obama administration imposed after the leaks of the former intelligence contractor Edward J. Snowden. Those included the U. S. A. Freedom Act, which ended the National Security Agency’s   program that collected Americans’ domestic calling records in bulk and replaced it with a system in which the government has to get a court order to obtain specific records from phone companies. In an   he   in January, Mr. Pompeo called for rolling back such reforms. Mr. Pompeo was a prominent member of the special House committee that investigated the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya. Although the panel found no new evidence of wrongdoing by the Obama administration or Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Mr. Pompeo and another conservative member of the committee, Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, were convinced of a wider  . When the committee released its findings in June, the two Republicans filed their own   addendum that was far harsher. The addendum said that the attacks showed that the State Department was “seemingly more concerned with politics and Secretary Clinton’s legacy than with protecting its people in Benghazi. ” “With the presidential election just 56 days away, rather than tell the American people the truth and increase the risk of losing an election, the administration told one story privately and a different story publicly,” they concluded. Trey Gowdy, the committee’s chairman and no shrinking violet when it came to Mrs. Clinton, did not put his name on the addendum. The   made quite a boast on Twitter on Thursday. Followed by: The only wrinkle: Ford was never planning to move the plant. During the campaign, Mr. Trump repeatedly criticized Ford for moving production to Mexico, and he threatened to impose a 35 percent tariff on vehicles made there. Ford makes the Lincoln MKC, a sport utility vehicle, at a factory in Louisville. Last week, Ford said it planned to move production of the vehicle elsewhere. But Ford had not planned to close the Louisville factory. Instead, it had planned to expand production of another vehicle made in Louisville, the Ford Escape. And the change had not been expected to result in any job losses. “Whatever happens in Louisville, it will not lose employment,” Jimmy Settles, a union official, told The Detroit Free Press. “They cannot make enough Escapes. ”