DETROIT  —   The development of   cars in recent years has been primarily a competition between technology companies and automakers working independently of each other. But that dynamic changed markedly on Tuesday, when Google said it would expand its testing of autonomous vehicles by installing its technology in a fleet of minivans made by Fiat Chrysler. The deal is the most prominent example yet of a Silicon Valley company collaborating with a traditional automaker on   vehicles. It could also prove to be a breakthrough in the generally wary relationship between technology and auto companies, and prompt more collaborative efforts. The deal is a major departure for Google, which previously had chosen to work mostly on its own in creating and testing   vehicles. For Fiat Chrysler, the arrangement allows the company to gain access to Google’s expertise in driverless cars rather than develop its own technology. Analysts said Fiat Chrysler needed a partner to catch up to other car companies that are investing heavily in   vehicles. “It couldn’t have picked a better one than Google, which is far down the road with   cars,” said Michelle Krebs, an analyst with the firm Autotrader. No financial terms were disclosed for the deal, which calls for Fiat Chrysler to provide Google with 100 Chrysler Pacifica hybrid minivans built specifically to accommodate   features. The companies said that Fiat Chrysler would design and engineer the minivans, and that Google would then integrate sensors and computer systems into the vehicles. The arrangement is the first time Google has worked directly with an automaker to adapt   vehicles for   purposes. Until now, Google had used an automotive supplier to build its own   prototypes. John Krafcik, the chief executive of the Google   Car Project, said the deal was a critical step in efforts to create autonomous vehicles for everyday driving. He said the collaboration “will accelerate our efforts to develop a fully   car that will make our roads safer and bring everyday destinations within reach for those who cannot drive. ” Sergio Marchionne, Fiat Chrysler’s chief executive, has been outspoken in recent months about his company’s desire to form technology partnerships, partly to defray the cost of developing   systems on its own. “The experiences both companies gain will be fundamental to delivering automotive technology solutions that ultimately have   commercial benefits,” he said. Other automakers, such as General Motors and Ford Motor, are also moving rapidly to develop   cars. G. M. for example, has agreed to buy the technology company Cruise Automation to begin outfitting its cars with   systems. At the same time, federal regulators are working on setting new guidelines for   vehicles. Google is part of a coalition  —   which includes Ford and Volvo  —   that supports swift passage of rules to allow for driverless cars on the nation’s roadways. Google is testing its own   prototypes in California and elsewhere. The company has also modified sport utility vehicles produced by Toyota to accommodate   systems. But the Pacifica hybrid minivan is a larger vehicle that can accommodate more passengers. With features like electronically controlled sliding doors, the van could be well suited to ferrying larger groups of people without the need for an actual driver. There was no indication that Fiat Chrysler had an inside track to mass produce   vehicles for Google one day. For now, the collaboration is said to be strictly for testing purposes. The companies said their engineering teams would work together at an unnamed location in Michigan. “It is a deal that should benefit both parties,” said Jack Nerad, an analyst with the   firm Kelley Blue Book. Mr. Nerad said adapting a   hybrid vehicle like the Pacifica was a logical extension of Google’s testing efforts. For Fiat Chrysler, the deal highlights the attributes of the new version of its bellwether minivan, which is going on sale this year. “It’s hard to look at this as anything but a ” he said. The nation’s top   regulator, Mark Rosekind, said last week that   technology had the potential to reduce traffic fatalities  —   currently 33, 000 a year  —   on American roads. The technology has also been supported by those who advocate   vehicles for disabled people who cannot operate a car, as well as by groups like Mothers Against Drunk Driving that aim to reduce accidents involving alcohol consumption. Opponents of fully autonomous vehicles have said the safety of driverless cars has yet to be proved, and they cite wrecks involving Google prototypes on public streets. Currently, there are no federal rules that expressly prohibit autonomous vehicles. But California has proposed that   cars require an actual driver behind the wheel to take control if autonomous systems fail to operate safely.