HANGZHOU, China  —   When Air Force One taxied to a stop in eastern China on Saturday afternoon, American and Chinese officials had already engaged in a lengthy, heated dispute over the most mundane of issues: How would the president depart his plane? China’s handling of President Obama’s arrival for the Group of 20 summit meeting in Hangzhou has created a narrative that the Chinese snubbed the American president. Some   news outlets are pushing back, fanning nationalist anger by accusing the Americans of arrogance in the squabble. The reality, American officials and diplomats familiar with China say, is both simpler and more complicated. The United States military had flown in a set of rolling air stairs, as it does on all of Mr. Obama’s foreign trips, and the White House had received Chinese approval to use the equipment. But before Mr. Obama’s arrival, a senior administration official said, the Chinese suddenly reversed themselves. The Americans were willing to use a Chinese stairway, this official said, but the Chinese insisted that the stairs be taken to the plane by a local driver, who the Americans said could not communicate with the White House team about even the simplest tasks. So the White House demanded that he be replaced with an   driver, a request the Chinese refused. As Air Force One was landing, the Chinese relented and told the Americans they could use their own stairs. But by then, officials said, there was no time to make a switch. So the White House decided to forgo the main doorway in favor of a smaller exit in the belly of the aircraft equipped with its own foldout stairs. Mr. Obama generally uses that door only when Air Force One arrives in places, like Afghanistan, with high security concerns. The decision deprived the president of the grand display of descending the stairs from the main doorway to a red carpet. (The carpet was there, but easy to miss, as was Mr. Obama, who popped out as if he were getting off a commuter flight at a municipal airport.) The president walked into a chaotic scene, with Chinese security officials roping off members of the White House press corps to prevent them from recording his arrival. Even the national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, was hassled by security officials. At that point, a Chinese official said in a raised voice to a White House official: “This is our country, this is our airport. ” The official’s fury, caught on a cellphone and widely circulated, won glowing approval on one of China’s most powerful government social media sites. On Weibo, the equivalent of Twitter, the Public Security Bureau declared: “This is our country. ” “Yup, this is very China!” the account, which has 24 million followers, noted as it showed a clip of Mr. Obama descending the small staircase. The comments on such sites appear only after passing censors. As far as many Chinese were concerned, the Americans were at fault. “America was   in Hangzhou, American media falsely accused China,” read a headline on the website of military. china. com, one of many news outlets that carried an article by ifeng. com, the online news site of Phoenix Television, which is based in Hong Kong. The Chinese government worked for more than two years to produce a flawless summit meeting. That the most powerful guest was left to walk down a set of small stairs from the center of his huge plane, Air Force One, left the Chinese blaming the Americans. “China gives the decision making on security to the American side,” said Jin Canrong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University. “China just follows what they want. That’s the traditional practice. The government gets used to this kind of U. S. behavior. ” The outrage on China’s social media was just a forceful expression of antagonism toward the Americans, he said. “The media feel angry. They are saying: ‘You American guys are so exceptional.’ ” The interpretation that China purposely snubbed Mr. Obama did not square with what the Chinese leadership wanted, others said. “I don’t think Xi Jinping deliberately tried to do a shakedown of Obama upon his arrival,” said Zhang Baohui, a professor at Lingnan University in Hong Kong. “Most likely the episodes at the airport were due to organizational oversights by the Chinese bureaucracy. ” China’s Foreign Ministry took umbrage at what it called the “unprofessional” nature of Western news coverage about Mr. Obama’s arrival. “To be frank, after seeing these reports, I’ve felt that the way in which a few American media have handled this may deepen the impression that people have held of the arrogance and conceitedness of some Western media,” said Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the ministry, at a regular briefing in Beijing on Monday. “Even before the facts have been clarified, they started to concoct news and reckless gossip and speculation. I think it was highly unprofessional,” she added. Clashes between China and the United States over the security and staging of Mr. Obama’s visits have been a feature of every trip he has made here since November 2009. While few people believe that President Xi Jinping issued the order to rebuff the American request on the stairs, the impasse embodies a kind of nationalist pride and defiance toward the United States that has deepened in the years Mr. Xi has been in power. “It’s part of a nationalist culture that he is imparting throughout China at every level: ‘The U. S. does not tell us what to do,’ ” said Jorge Guajardo, a former Mexican ambassador to China. Mr. Guajardo said he had been on the receiving end of extreme demands from the Chinese when he worked with them during a Group of 20 conference in Los Cabos, Mexico, in 2012. “The   issue is a way to take a stance and make the Chinese people proud that they’re not pushovers,” he said. Administration officials disputed the suggestion that the staircase incident was part of a broader attempt to humiliate Mr. Obama. Instead, they said, it reflected how on edge the Chinese have been in hosting the Group of 20, a major summit meeting involving dozens of world leaders. The authorities largely emptied this city of 10 million before the meeting, paying the residents to take vacations. Hangzhou is a provincial capital, officials noted, so it does not have the experience of dealing with visiting V. I. P.s that Beijing or even Shanghai has. The Chinese authorities have also placed extraordinary limitations on news media access to Mr. Obama while he is here. The White House press corps, which normally has access to the president’s public events wherever he travels, has been sequestered in buses 200 yards from the site of the Group of 20, without access to food or toilets. Mr. Obama played down the incident, saying it was part of the normal    over security and media access that the United States has with many foreign countries. He noted that foreign delegations often feel bruised by their treatment when they visit the United States. And he acknowledged that the White House places a lot of demands on countries he visits because of the size of his entourage and his security demands. “Part of it is we also have a much bigger footprint than a lot of other countries,” Mr. Obama said. “We’ve got a lot of planes and a lot of helicopters and a lot of cars and a lot of guys, and if you’re a host country, sometimes it may feel a little bit much. ” Still, with China, the president acknowledged, “the seams are showing a little more than usual in terms of some of the negotiations and jostling that takes place behind the scenes. ”