MIAMI  —   Federal health officials on Monday stopped warning pregnant women to stay out of Miami’s Wynwood arts district amid Zika fears, and they credited aerial pesticide spraying with killing mosquitoes that transmit the virus. But they continued to caution pregnant women about the city and surrounding areas. No new cases of Zika have been reported in the Wynwood neighborhood since early August. Health officials said that over the past several weeks, mosquito control workers there had seen fewer of the insects, the main culprits in spreading the virus. “The message with Wynwood is it was a huge success,” said Dr. Lyle Petersen of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The C. D. C. continues to advise pregnant women to consider postponing nonessential travel to all of   County  —   including Wynwood and Miami Beach, where health officials say a zone of active Zika transmission has grown. Wynwood was the first place on the United States mainland where mosquitoes began transmitting Zika. C. D. C. officials and Florida’s governor attributed the   in infections there to aggressive aerial spraying with naled, an insecticide that targets adult mosquitoes, and   spraying with another pesticide that kills mosquito larvae. “This outbreak would have kept going without the aerial spraying,” Dr. Petersen said. Gov. Rick Scott said residents and business owners who kept their properties clear of standing water also helped. But despite months of public outreach and aggressive mosquito control measures, including the removal of tropical plants that trap water where insects can breed, Florida health officials have continued to find mosquitoes carrying the virus in Miami Beach. The city’s infection zone was expanded Friday to include most of the   island. Miami Beach’s tall buildings and ocean breezes make aerial spraying there more difficult than in Wynwood, Dr. Petersen said. A plane contracted by   County mosquito control officials sprayed naled over South Beach on Sunday. It was the city’s third aerial spraying. A fourth is scheduled for Saturday. Many residents have opposed the spraying. Of 85 Zika cases unconnected to travel among Florida residents, 31 were associated with Wynwood and 36 with Miami Beach, a spokeswoman for the Florida Department of Health, Mara Gambineri, said in an email on Monday. Ten people who are not Florida residents have also contracted Zika in the state.