American Olympians are considering boycotting a world championship event scheduled to be held in Sochi, Russia, in February, a move that would represent the most provocative gesture yet by athletes dissatisfied with how sports officials have responded to the continuing Russian doping scandal. American athletes who compete in bobsled and skeleton have circulated memos laying out reasons to avoid participating in the world championships in Sochi, the site of the last Winter Olympics and of elaborate,   cheating. The athletes have cited concerns about doping control, personal safety and information security. The correspondence, some of which was obtained by The New York Times, indicates that the athletes have the support of the United States Olympic Committee. That organization has not taken a strong public stand on Russia’s systemic doping as it seeks to curry favor with global sports leaders in a bid to hold the 2024 Summer Games in Los Angeles. “This has been passed down the line from the very highest level of sport, and now it’s fallen into the lap of athletes,” said Kyle Tress, an American skeleton racer. “There’s tremendous support to skip this event, and I think it’s the right decision. ” The United States Olympic Committee initially declined to comment. On Sunday, after this article was published online, a spokesman wrote that the organization supported athletes’ rights to choose when and where to compete. “The U. S. O. C. does not, and will not, support blanket boycotts of any events,” the spokesman added. “Any decisions our athletes make will be supported independently from our bid for the 2024 Summer Games, which is independent and unrelated to these events. ” In recent days, Mr. Tress and other members of his sport’s athlete advisory committee voted unanimously to recommend that if the competition was not relocated, American athletes should boycott the 2017 world championships. That event is key in determining rankings ahead of the following year’s Winter Olympics, to be held in Pyeongchang, South Korea. In May, a longtime chief of Russia’s antidoping laboratory, Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, told The New York Times of a cheating operation coordinated by the Russian government at the Sochi Olympics in 2014. Top Russian athletes doped during the competition, he said, and had their   urine replaced with clean urine for drug testing. An investigation commissioned by the World   Agency verified the account, with its report released in July, and results of another investigation due this week are expected to address which athletes benefited from the cheating. “The fact that nothing has been done about the Sochi scandal and the fact that we’re still going to race there  —   it doesn’t make us feel secure, or that they’re taking the situation seriously,” said Katie Uhlaender, an American skeleton racer. At the Sochi Games, Ms. Uhlaender placed fourth, finishing 0. 04 of a second behind the bronze medal winner, Elena Nikitina of Russia. Ms. Nikitina’s urine sample was among those with which Dr. Rodchenkov said he had tampered, leaving Ms. Uhlaender wondering if she deserved a medal. This year, numerous Olympic medals have been stripped from Russian athletes for doping offenses at the Games in London in 2012 and in Beijing in 2008  —   but not at Sochi. Athletes who are advocating a Sochi boycott hope that the World   Agency’s publication of a final investigative report on Friday will prompt a stronger response from the International Olympic Committee and the International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation, the sport’s international governing body. Athletes are lobbying for the championships to be moved to a site outside Russia and for officials to revisit the standings of the 2014 Games as warranted. (The I. O. C. has appointed a disciplinary commission focused on Sochi, but it has not taken action ahead of the inquiry report expected this week.) “Perhaps after the report comes out, they’ll listen,” Mr. Tress said. “There’s politics and money and sponsors involved, but this is an opportunity to come out in favor of clean sport. And they’ve missed that opportunity. ” In July, after WADA published an initial report detailing   cheating in Sochi, the I. O. C. provided guidance to sports organizations planning to host events in Russia. “Because of the detailed references to the manipulation of samples during the Olympic Winter Games Sochi 2014,” the committee wrote in a news release, “the I. O. C. asks all International Olympic Winter Sports Federations to freeze their preparations for major events in Russia, such as world championships, World Cups or other major international competitions under their responsibility, and to actively look for alternative organizers. ” Nonetheless, plans for February’s championships have moved forward. The I. O. C. has not publicly clarified its guidelines, and the matter is expected to be discussed at the Olympic committee’s executive board meetings in Switzerland this week. The International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation did not respond to emails requesting comment. “Sochi is in Russia, and it’s the place where the cheating happened,” Ms. Uhlaender said. “I’m confused at how the I. O. C. said what it said, and we’re still holding our world championships there. ” Such confusion has transcended nationalities. “It’s not just the U. S. athletes,” said Travis T. Tygart, chief executive of the United States   Agency. “Athletes around the world are concerned about this, and it’s a last resort,” he added, referring to the consideration of boycotting competitions. Lizzy Yarnold of Britain, who won a gold medal in skeleton at the Sochi Games, said in October that she was considering skipping the event in Sochi in February. Those traveling to Russia have concerns extending beyond drug testing, too, after recent Russian cyberattacks on WADA and Usada, and the theft of athletes’ private medical information, raised   issues. As groups of athletes organize, they are increasingly forcing national governing bodies to support their cause  —   an uncomfortable position for United States sports officials, who need the votes of global Olympic officials to win the right to host the 2024 Games. The race to hold that competition has narrowed to three bidders, with Los Angeles and Paris considered   ahead of Budapest. It was unclear how drug testing at the Sochi competition would be handled. WADA has decertified Russia’s national antidoping agency, making the country ineligible to hold an Olympic competition. That ineligibility, some antidoping officials said, should carry over to other international sporting events. “So long as Russia is noncompliant, they should not have events there,” said Thorhild Widvey, a politician from Norway who sits on WADA’s executive committee. Craig Reedie, WADA’s president, who is also a longtime I. O. C. member and has been criticized for seeming to run the regulatory agency more as politician than policeman, expressed eagerness last month for Russia to return to good standing. He invoked the country’s willingness to host major international competitions  —   something fewer and fewer countries are vying for. Mr. Tress said, “There hasn’t been a sufficient response from people in leadership positions, and there’s a lot of frustration. ”