RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Ashton Eaton likes to view the decathlon as a competition with himself, not with others. By that standard, he lost on Thursday night: failing to approach his own world record score of 9, 045 points over the ten events. But judged by the traditional Olympic measuring stick, his performance in Rio was very much a success. Though he was pushed harder than expected by the young,   Frenchman Kevin Mayer, Eaton still defended his Olympic title. His total of 8, 893 points tied an Olympic record and was plenty for a gold medal in the traditional   test of speed, skill, strength and endurance. Eaton joined Bob Mathias of the United States and Daley Thompson of Britain as the only men to win two Olympic decathlon gold medals. Eaton also joined his wife Brianne   as a medalist in Rio.   who trains with Ashton under coach Harry Marra, represents Canada and won a bronze medal last week in the heptathlon, the   women’s competition. Eaton, a    from Oregon, overcame a string of injuries  —   nagging and more significant   this season to defend his decathlon title, including a torn hamstring shortly before the United States Olympic Trials. The struggle to get healthy may explain some of his performances in Rio in the explosive sprint and jumping events which have helped him establish his dominance. He set no personal best in any event in Rio. His   time of 46. 07 seconds on Wednesday night was more than a second off his time of 45. 0 at last year’s world championships in Beijing when he ran the fastest 400 in history by a decathlete on his way to the world record. His javelin throw on Thursday night of 59. 77 meters was nearly seven meters short of his   mark. Meanwhile, Mayer, 24, a former world junior decathlon champion, spent the two days and nights of the competition breaking personal records in bunches. After outperforming Eaton in the pole vault (5. 40 meters to 5. 20) and in the javelin (65. 04 meters to 59. 77) Mayer headed into the final event, the 1500 meters, trailing Eaton by the small margin of 44 points. But Eaton, a much more accomplished middle distance runner at this stage, was able to secure the gold without much suspense. Though Eaton did not beat himself in terms of the world record, he did beat himself in Olympic terms: improving on his winning score of 8869 points from the 2012 Games in London. Usain Bolt of Jamaica won the gold medal in the men’s 200 meters at the Rio Olympics on Thursday night, further cementing his standing as the most dominant sprinter in history. On a   track, Bolt made winning his eighth career gold medal look easy. No one came close. His time: 19. 78 seconds, well ahead ofAndre De Grasse of Canada, who took silver in 20. 02. Christophe Lemaitre of France won bronze in 20. 12. “I don’t need to prove anything else,” Bolt said. “What else can I do to prove to the world I am the greatest?” Here’s how Bolt blew away the field. Second Chance at Relay: The American women’s   relay team dropped the baton in a heat but got a second chance because a Brazilian runner had encroached on their handoff. Later in the day, on an otherwise empty track, the team was allowed to rerun the race by itself against the clock: If it went faster than the   team it would advance to the final. This time the runners held on to the baton and duly qualified for Friday’s final. . Want all the results in Rio? Go here. A security guard brandished a gun after four American swimmers vandalized a gas station bathroom, Brazilian police officials said Thursday, illuminating many aspects of an incident that has spiraled into a thorny legal case testing the relations between Brazil and the United States. The chronology described by the police seemed to suggest that one of the swimmers, Ryan Lochte, had not fabricated his version of the night’s events entirely but rather had exaggerated certain aspects and left out key details. Lochte had said that after leaving a party early Sunday, he, Gunnar Bentz, Jack Conger and Jimmy Feigen were robbed by men claiming to be police officers. The police officials said that “there was no robbery in the way it was reported by the athletes” and that “they were not the victim of the criminal act they described. ” On Wednesday, a Brazilian judge issued an order to prevent Lochte and Feigen from leaving the country as doubts emerged over their testimony. But Lochte had already returned to the United States. Here’s the complete article. Triathlon: Britain has had a strong Games, keeping the momentum it built as the home nation in 2012, and it added to its medal haul in the men’s triathlon with the brothers Brownlee  —   Alistair, who repeated his gold medal performance from London, and Jonathan, who won silver. Volleyball: The world champion American women’s team lost a   semifinal to Serbia,   and will compete for the bronze medal on Saturday. Wrestling: The United States got its first wrestling medal of the Games, a gold one for Helen Maroulis in the   category. Maroulis beat Saori Yoshida of Japan,   in the final. Yoshida had won three straight Olympic gold medals and is often considered to be one of the greatest female wrestlers ever. Beach Volleyball: The Brazilians have been loud and supportive of all their competing countrymen and women. But when the Brazilian team of Alison Cerutti and Bruno Schmidt plays for men’s beach volleyball gold against Paolo Nicolai and Daniele Lupo of Italy, Copacabana Beach figures to be rocking particularly hard. Boxing: The American boxer Shakur Stevenson advanced to the final of the men’s bantamweight division when Vladimir Nikitin of Russia withdrew with an injury. Nikitin had defeated Michael Conlan of Ireland in the quarterfinals, a decision that produced howls of disagreement from the crowd and claims of match fixing from Conlan. The federation running the boxing tournament at the Olympics reassigned its executive director, a day after a handful of judges were sent home for making questionable rulings in a few bouts. The decision by the federation  —   the International Boxing Association, known as AIBA  —   to remove its executive director, Karim Bouzidi, seemed to be the latest move to stanch criticism of judges who have been accused of making dubious decisions to favor boxers from certain countries. AIBA did not say why Bouzidi was being moved to a different position, although the supervision of referees and judges fell under his purview. Franco Falcinelli, the most senior vice president at AIBA, will oversee the operations of the remainder of the tournament, which runs through Sunday. Read the article here.  —   KEN BELSON and SCOTT BLUMENTHAL