A federal judge on Friday curbed the enforcement of a North Carolina law that restricted restroom access for transgender people. The ruling was the first judicial rebuke of a statute that has been condemned as discriminatory and, with lawsuit after lawsuit, has deepened the national debate about transgender rights. In an   decision that was restrained in its scope, Judge Thomas D. Schroeder of Federal District Court in   N. C. limited the University of North Carolina’s power to enforce the section of the law that requires people in publicly owned buildings to use restrooms that correspond with the gender listed on their birth certificates. The judge’s decision applies only to the people who brought the legal challenge, and it came after he concluded that they had shown they were “likely to succeed” in ultimately proving that the access restriction violates the federal government’s interpretation of Title IX, which forbids sex discrimination. “In sum, the court has no reason to believe that an injunction returning to the state of affairs as it existed before March 2016 would pose a privacy or safety risk for North Carolinians, transgender or otherwise,” Judge Schroeder wrote in his opinion, which he issued nearly four weeks after he heard oral arguments in  . “It is in the public interest to enforce federal   laws in a fashion that also maintains longstanding state laws designed to promote privacy and safety. ” Judge Schroeder, whom President George W. Bush nominated to the federal bench, did not impose a wholesale injunction against the law. He said that the plaintiffs had “not made a clear showing” that they would prevail in their argument that the statute violates the Constitution’s guarantee of equal protection. But his ruling is still a milestone victory for critics of the measure, commonly referred to as House Bill 2, and a blow to many Republican leaders in North Carolina, who have championed the statute as crucial to public safety. “Today is a great day for me, and hopefully this is a start to chipping away at the injustice of H. B. 2 that is harming thousands of other transgender people who call people home,” Joaquín Carcaño, a transgender man who is a plaintiff in the case and a University of North Carolina employee, said in a statement. “Today, the tightness that I have felt in my chest every day since H. B. 2 passed has eased. But the fight is not over: We won’t rest until this discriminatory law is defeated. ” The University of North Carolina said in a statement Friday night that its lawyers were reviewing the ruling and that the   system “will fully comply with its directive. ” The statement continued: “We have long said that the university has not and will not be taking steps to enforce H. B. 2. ” A lawyer for Gov. Pat McCrory, Bob Stephens, said in a statement that the decision “is not a final resolution of this case, and the governor will continue to defend North Carolina law. ” Separately, the General Assembly’s ranking Republicans noted the narrow nature of Judge Schroeder’s ruling. “While the court granted a limited injunction for three individuals, we are pleased it preserved the   protections to keep grown men out of bathrooms and showers with women and young girls for our public schools and for nearly 10 million North Carolinians statewide,” House Speaker Tim Moore and Phil Berger, the president pro tempore of the State Senate, said in a joint statement. Mr. McCrory, who signed H. B. 2 into law, and others have spent months arguing that the statute, which the   General Assembly approved during a special session, is free of discriminatory intent. But they have struggled to persuade civil rights activists and major businesses, and the state has endured an enormous backlash. Last month, the National Basketball Association protested the law by abandoning plans to hold its 2017   Game in Charlotte, the state’s largest city. The law has emerged in a flash point this election year, as Mr. McCrory seeks a second term, but its fate will not be settled until long after ballots are cast and counted. A bench trial about the law, the subject of intense litigation brought by civil rights groups, North Carolina officials and the United States Department of Justice, is scheduled for Nov. 14. Judge Schroeder will preside.