BAGHDAD  —   The Trump administration amended its visa ban on Thursday to allow emigration by the families of Iraqi interpreters who served the United States government and military forces deployed in their country. The change, recommended by the Pentagon, eased some of the anger generated in Iraq by President Trump’s executive order imposing the ban, which has stoked anxiety and confusion around much of the world since it was issued last week. The order temporarily blocked all Syrian refugees from entering the United States and suspended visas for applicants from seven   countries, including Iraq. It applied to holders of   Special Immigrant Visas issued to interpreters who worked for the United States during its   occupation, often at great personal risk, and to their families. In a statement about the change sent to The New York Times, a United States Embassy official in Baghdad said, “The U. S. government has determined that it is in the national interest to allow Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa (S. I. V.) holders to continue to travel to the United States. ” Iraqis who have received the visas, the statement said, may use them, and the “U. S. Embassy in Baghdad will continue to process and issue S. I. V.s to applicants who are otherwise qualified. ” For the family of a    Iraqi who once worked as an interpreter for American forces, the news was a joyous surprise after nearly a week of upended travel plans. An embassy official called to inform family members that they were again permitted to fly to the United States. “I’m shocked all over again,” said the former interpreter, who asked to be identified only by his first name and an initial, Munther A. to protect relatives in Iraq. The travel ban has thrown the lives of many former interpreters in Iraq into turmoil. Even with valid visas in hand, some were refused entry at American airports and others were removed from planes scheduled to fly to the United States. There was also confusion because the executive order, at least initially, barred entry to Iraqis who held American green cards. Many of them, but not all, were eventually permitted to enter the United States. The Pentagon recommended that the White House exempt from the travel ban Special Immigrant Visa holders and others who had demonstrated their commitment to American military forces. Munther A. and his family were removed from a Turkish Airlines flight in Istanbul on Saturday just as they had settled into their seats for a scheduled flight to Kennedy Airport. They were forced to fly back to Baghdad, he said. Most Iraqis holding the special visas have sold their homes, cars and other possessions in anticipation of starting a new life in the United States. Munther A. said his family had been forced to find emergency housing with friends in Baghdad. Since 2007, the State Department has issued more than 1, 700 Special Immigrant Visas to Iraqi interpreters and their family members. The embassy in Baghdad did not disclose the number of Iraqis affected by the change in the Trump administration’s visa ban. Only 19 such visas were issued to Iraqi interpreters and their families during the past three years, according to State Department figures. Mr. Trump said when he issued the executive order that it was intended to allow American officials to vet Iraqis and others more thoroughly. But the interpreters had extensive security vetting before they were permitted to accompany American forces. They spent years clearing more background security checks while applying for the special visas. Even after the phone call from the embassy, Munther A. and his family were initially turned away by airline officials in Baghdad on Thursday as they tried to board a connecting flight to Doha, Qatar. He called a telephone number provided by the embassy, he said, and the problem was resolved. “We’re getting on the flight now,” Munther A. said in a telephone interview from the Baghdad airport late Thursday afternoon. He said his    daughter was in tears on Saturday because the canceled flight meant she would not be able to visit Disneyland, as her father had promised. “I told her she’s going now,” Munther A. said. Thousands of interpreters, known to the troops as “terps,” rode for years with American forces on combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. They were given American nicknames like Tony and Bobby and Max. They often wore scarves across their faces to mask their identities. They risked their lives as the eyes and ears of the American military in Iraq. They did far more than just interpret, guiding American soldiers and commanders through Iraqi politics, tribal disputes and social customs. Other Iraqis who assisted the American military or government in Iraq indirectly remained in limbo on Thursday. Many had received refugee visas to resettle in the United States with the assistance of the International Organization for Migration, but they were blocked by the travel ban this week. A    Iraqi father of two who worked seven years for a contractor that supplied American troops said he and his family had been granted visas for relocation to Charlotte, N. C. after passing extensive security checks. They were scheduled to fly from Iraq to the United States on Thursday, said the man, who asked to be identified as Ahmed A. He was told by the International Organization for Migration this week that his flight had been canceled because of the travel ban. Having already sold his home and car and quit his job, he scrambled to find a place to live with friends in Erbil, Iraq. Ahmed A. said he had heard nothing from the International Organization for Migration as of Thursday. A spokesman for the organization in Iraq did not respond to a request for comment. There also was confusion on Thursday for Qusay Fawzi Ahmed, 38, a former military interpreter who moved to Tampa, Fla. in 2012, after receiving a special immigrant visa. On Saturday, Mr. Ahmed was awaiting a phone call from his fiancée, Marwa Nasr   who was flying to New York from Iraq with a valid visa in her passport. After years of waiting, she said, she received approval to join her fiancé. Mr. Ahmed, who works at Domino’s, said he was delivering a pizza in Tampa when his fiancée called him from Kennedy Airport. She told him she had been detained and ordered to fly back to Cairo, where her flight had originated, and then to her home in Erbil. “My fiancée is a    girl  —   she’s not going to bomb anything,” Mr. Ahmed said in a telephone interview. Ms. Din said on Thursday that she had been unable to find out when, or whether, her visa would allow her to join her fiancé in Tampa. “Is this the freedom and democracy we have heard about in the U. S. A. ?” she asked.