(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. President Donald Trump got into Twitter spats with the Iranian government, the University of California, Berkeley and Arnold Schwarzenegger. The issues ranged from missile tests to free speech to TV ratings. Speaking to a gathering of religious leaders in Washington, Mr. Trump brushed aside criticism and pledged to “destroy” a law restricting political speech by   churches, a potentially huge victory for the religious right. Late Thursday, he unexpectedly shifted his stance on Israel, warning Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to hold off on settlement construction. _____ 2. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis visited South Korea, his first stop on an Asia trip meant to reassure U. S. allies. But his visit was overshadowed by news of Mr. Trump’s testy phone call with the leader of Australia over the weekend. He clashed with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull over an agreement to take in 1, 250 refugees. European leaders are gathering in Malta to discuss a crisis that has unexpectedly overtaken the agenda: the newly unpredictable United States. _____ 3. The administration amended its immigration order to allow U. S. entry to the families of Iraqi interpreters who served the U. S. government and military forces. But tumult over the order continued. The C. E. O. of Uber is stepping down from the president’s economic advisory council, saying he did not want his participation to be mistaken for support. Somali refugees in Kenya suddenly robbed of hope say they fear reprisals from   militants. And tens of thousands of people from the seven countries named in the executive order are effectively stuck in the U. S. because the State Department revoked their visas  —   without notifying them. _____ 4. It isn’t clear exactly what happened during the   standoff at a prison in Smyrna, Del. But when authorities used a backhoe to storm it at dawn, they found a hostage corrections officer unresponsive. He was quickly pronounced dead. Sgt. Steven Floyd had worked for the Department of Correction for 16 years. Details of his death were not released, and officials said they were treating all 120 inmates as suspects. A woman who worked as a counselor was not only unharmed, she had been protected by the inmates. The inmates’ grievances included allegations of mistreatment and a lack of educational and rehabilitation programs. _____ 5. Several community groups in Michigan and Minnesota are rejecting hundreds of thousands of dollars in federal aid to fight violent extremism. The money comes from Homeland Security grants to counter recruitment by terrorist and white supremacist groups. But the community groups are reacting to reports that the Trump administration is considering reshaping the program to target only Muslims. _____  6. The Super Bowl, scheduled for Sunday night in Houston, is infused with national politics like never before. During Fox’s pregame telecast, Bill O’Reilly will interview Mr. Trump, who is a friend of the Patriots’ owner, coach and star player. There may be protests outside the stadium, or at the halftime show. Lady Gaga remained coy about the plans for her halftime performance. Fox and the N. F. L. are trying to keep game commercials apolitical. A lumber company’s ad depicting a mother and daughter who encounter a wall during an arduous journey north was nixed. _____ 7. Snapchat’s parent company filed paperwork for its public stock offering. While the filing does not indicate a price for an initial public offering, Snap is expected to seek a market valuation of more than $20 billion from investors. The move puts the company’s    chief executive, Evan Spiegel, in the spotlight. The chairman of Google is calling him the next Gates or Zuckerberg. _____ 8. “ . ” That’s our critic, describing “I Am Not Your Negro,” a new documentary about James Baldwin. “Whatever you think about the past and future of what used to be called ‘race relations’  —   white supremacy and the resistance to it, in plainer English  —   this movie will make you think again, and may even change your mind. ” _____ 9. A happy ending: A woman gravely injured in the Boston Marathon bombing is about to marry the firefighter who rescued her. This week, they both walked up the 1, 576 steps of the Empire State Building, she with a prosthetic leg and he with his firefighting gear on, to benefit the Challenged Athlete Foundation. _____ 10. Finally, new research suggests a surprising function for sleep: to forget. Pruning synapses that grow exuberantly to store the day’s memories appears to be a biological necessity, protecting important moments but making space for new knowledge in the brain’s hard drive. “You can forget in a smart way,” one researcher said. Hope you get some rest. Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.