AMSTERDAM (AP)  —   A diplomatic rift between Turkey and key European nations deepened Sunday as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan accused Germany of “Nazi practices,” days after a local authority prevented a Turkish minister from addressing a rally. [Meanwhile, at an election campaign event in Amsterdam, Dutch   populist Geert Wilders also resorted to   comparisons, calling Erdogan an “  leader. ”  The diplomatic tension has been rising in recent days amid Turkish plans to have government ministers to address rallies in Germany and the Netherlands in support of an upcoming constitutional referendum that would give Erdogan new powers. Speaking in Istanbul, the Turkish president fanned the flames with a stinging verbal attack. “In Germany they are not allowing our friends to speak. Let them do so. Do you think that by not allowing them to speak the votes in Germany will come out ‘no’ instead of ‘yes? ’” Erdogan said. “Germany, you don’t have anything to do with democracy. These current practices of yours are no different than the Nazi practices of the past. ” On Thursday, Turkey’s justice minister canceled a meeting with his German counterpart after local authorities in southwest Germany withdrew permission for him to use a venue to hold a rally near the French border that was part of a campaign to get Turks in Germany to vote “yes” in the referendum. Turkey’s economy minister, Nihat Zeybekci, was due to speak at two events in western Germany on Sunday. There are about 1. 4 million people in Germany who are eligible to vote in the Turkish referendum, Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern, in an interview with German weekly newspaper Welt am Sonntag, said it is time to pull the plug on   moves to bring Turkey into the EU. “We shouldn’t just temporarily suspend the accession talks with Turkey but end them,” Kern said. “We can’t continue to negotiate about membership with a country that has been steadily distancing itself for years, during ongoing access talks, from democratic standards and principles of the rule of law. ” The Dutch government is investigating whether it can halt a rally being planned for later in the week at which Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu is reportedly due to speak. Prime Minister Mark Rutte told Dutch broadcaster NOS on Saturday that his government “is looking at all legal avenues to prevent such a visit. ” Rutte said the proposed constitutional changes take Turkey, an aspirant European Union member state, “in a less democratic direction. ” “We believe that Dutch public space is not the place for political campaigns of other countries,” Rutte wrote earlier in a post on his Facebook page. Kern said, “A concerted approach by the EU to prevent such campaign appearances would make sense. So that individual countries such as Germany, where appearances have been banned, don’t come under pressure from Turkey. ” Wilders, whose Party for Freedom is lagging only slightly behind Rutte’s VVD party in polls before March 15 elections for Parliament’s lower house, said he would go further if he were in power. “I think that coming here to advocate a change of the Turkish constitution that will only strengthen the   leader Erdogan of Turkey more than Parliament, Turkish parliament, is the worst thing that could happen to us,” Wilders told reporters at a campaign event. Wilders said that if he were Dutch prime minister, “”I would call the whole Cabinet of Turkey ‘persona non grata’ for a month or two, not allowing them to come here. ” Kern, however, pointed out that totally cutting ties with Ankara wouldn’t be in EU interests. An EU deal with Turkey, which also is a NATO member, has significantly cut the number of migrants crossing into Europe. “We should realign the relationship, without the illusion of EU membership,” Kern said. “Turkey is an important partner in security matters, on migration and on economic cooperation. Turkey has stuck to all of its commitments resulting from the refugee deal in any case. We should build upon that. ”  