The 2016 presidential election was a day reckoning for the Democratic party. According to an article in Politico, the party is experiencing unfathomable desolation and dissolution from which they are neither prepared nor equipped to recover:  As Trump takes over the GOP and starts remaking its new identity as a nationalist, populist party, creating a new political pole in American politics for the first time in generations, all eyes are on the Democrats. How will they confront a suddenly awakened, and galvanized, white majority? What’s to stop Trump from doing whatever he wants? Who’s going to pull a coherent new vision together? Worried liberals are watching with trepidation, fearful that Trump is just the beginning of worse to come, desperate for a comeback strategy that can work. What’s clear from interviews with several dozen top Democratic politicians and operatives at all levels, however, is that there is no comeback strategy —  just a collection of   ideas, all of them challenged by reality. And for whatever scheme they come up with, Democrats don’t even have a  . Barack Obama? He doesn’t want the job. Hillary Clinton? Too damaged. Bernie Sanders? Too socialist. Joe Biden? Too tied to Obama. Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer? Too Washington. Elizabeth Warren? Maybe. And all of them old, old, old. The Democrats’ desolation is staggering. But part of the problem is that it’s easy to point to signs that maybe things aren’t so bad. After all, Clinton did beat Trump by 2. 8 million votes, Obama’s approval rating is nearly 60 percent, polls show Democrats way ahead of the GOP on many issues and demographics suggest that gap will only grow. But they are stuck in the minority in Congress with no end in sight, have only 16 governors left and face 32 state legislatures fully under GOP control. Their top leaders in the House are all over 70. Their top leaders in the Senate are all over 60. Under Obama, Democrats have lost 1, 034 seats at the state and federal level —  there’s no bench, no bench for a bench, virtually no one able to speak for the party as a whole. Read the rest of the story here.