Warner Bros. superhero tentpole Wonder Woman held on to the top spot at the box office while Universal’s Tom   The Mummy reboot failed to unwrap big gains domestically as Hollywood’s bleak summer continued this weekend. [Wonder Woman  —   starring Gal Gadot as the Amazonian   World War I peacekeeper  —   raked in $16 million Friday for an estimated $57. 2 million weekend total in its second week of release, according to Box Office Mojo. The   Patty   film, with a 93 percent “fresh” rating on reviews aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, fell just 45 percent in its second weekend for a   domestic total of $205 million. The film has fared even better overseas, with its international tally standing at $435 million.  Wonder Woman‘s success  —   (the 45 percent   drop is the one of the lowest ever for a superhero movie)  —  provides a   shot in the arm to DC’s   universe of superhero movies as Warners preps the launch of Justice League later this year. Meanwhile, Universal’s monster movie The Mummy debuted to a paltry estimated $32. 2 million   frame to come in second place for the weekend. The Tom   film, meant to launch Universal’s “Dark Universe” of   monster movies, reportedly cost $125 million to produce before marketing, meaning the film will have to perform exceptionally well overseas to turn a profit for the studio. For comparison, each of the three Brendan   Mummy films in the early 2000s opened higher than this latest iteration. Mummy did fare far better overseas, where Cruise’s name still carries a ton of star firepower. The film opened to an estimated $52. 2 million in China, a record for a   film in the country, on its way to an international total of $141. 8 million, the best international launch for any film in the actor’s career. Universal undoubtedly hoped for a better opening for Mummy, as it was meant to serve as the first film in its “Dark Universe” series. Upcoming entries in the series are reported to include a Bill   Bride of Frankenstein movie in 2019, and the Johnny   The Invisible Man. Dreamworks Animation’s Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie came in third place with an estimated $12. 3 million haul. The animated movie featuring the voices of Kevin Hart and Ed Helms has earned $44. 5 million domestically, according to Box Office Mojo, a solid if unremarkable result for a film that reportedly cost just $30 million to produce. Disney’s Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales continued its underwhelming run at the box office with a   estimated take of $10. 7 million and a   finish, bringing its domestic total to around $135 million. Johnny Depp’s fifth outing as the buoyant Captain Jack Sparrow has delivered overseas, however, with an estimated global tally of close to $600 million. Disney’s Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 rounded out this weekend’s top five with an estimated $6. 2 million in domestic receipts. The James   superhero ensemble kicked off the summer season in early May with a $145 million debut weekend, and until Wonder Woman, was this summer’s only real box office hit. The film’s global haul stands at $828 million. Overall, the summer to date has been a disaster for studios, with only Wonder Woman and Guardians breaking out as bona fide hits. The season has suffered with a string of   bombs, including Mummy, the aforementioned Pirates sequel, the Ridley   sequel Alien: Covenant and Warner Bros.’ Charlie     King Arthur: Legend of the Sword. Other   misfires included Paramount’s Baywatch reboot and the Amy   Hawn kidnap caper Snatched. According to Bloomberg, theater companies AMC and IMAX have seen their stock fall precipitously this year due in part to poor box office results. Cowen  Co. analyst Doug Creutz told the outlet that this summer’s offerings to date have collectively fallen $300 million short of expectations, and summer 2017 could beat out the summer of 2014 to become the worst summer at the box office since at least the  . Industry observers will be holding out hope for other scheduled   releases this summer, including next weekend’s Pixar animated sequel Cars 3, Michael Bay and Universal’s Transformers: The Last Knight, and Warner Bros’ Christopher   World War II epic Dunkirk. Other   movies will include Universal’s Despicable Me 3,   Pictures’  : Homecoming and Fox’s War for the Planet of the Apes. View this weekend’s full box office results at Box Office Mojo.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum