If the surprisingly strong job gains in January revealed the economy’s resilience, they also exposed some of its stubborn weaknesses. Yes, the government’s report on Friday showed that employers fattened their payrolls by 227, 000 workers last month, an unexpectedly large increase. And yes, public optimism about economic prospects has persuaded a few hundred thousand Americans who had dropped out of the work force to return. But the very fact that so many sidelined workers could be lured back despite meager wage growth is evidence that the labor pool is not as shallow as some have argued. To the labor market bulls, consistently low official jobless rates have suggested that the economy is nearing capacity and that inflation lurks. Initial estimates released last month gave the impression that wages had taken a big step forward at the end of last year, lifting hopes that the momentum would continue, especially with a surge of local   increases taking effect across the country. Instead, the Labor Department’s latest figures showed baby steps  —   slower increases in earnings for December and January, bringing    average wage growth back down to its disappointing 2. 5 percent trend. “The increase in participation and drop in wages suggest we’re not at full employment,” James Athey, senior investment manager at Aberdeen Asset Management, said. Although officials at the Federal Reserve have said they expect to raise the benchmark interest rate three times this year in response to a strengthening economy, they made clear at their   session this week that nothing is guaranteed. “This is just what the doves at the Fed wanted to see,” Mr. Athey said, referring to those wary of raising rates and keen to keep the focus on fostering hiring rather than heading off inflation. “All of the numbers point toward it being more difficult to justify another hike in March,” when Fed members next meet. But just because the job market is not yet drum tight does not mean it is not improving. “The labor market started 2017 on the front foot,” said Carl R. Tannenbaum, chief economist at Northern Trust. “This is a good, good number. ” President Trump, who previously dismissed the jobs estimates as “phony numbers,” said on Friday that the latest report showed there was a “great spirit in the country right now. ” The averages the government reported mask how fractured the labor market is regarding skills and pay. Employers in many sectors have complained about the difficulty of finding and keeping suitable workers, which has driven up pay in several sectors. “We’re still continuing to see wage pressure as the candidate market continues to shrink,” said Amy Glaser, senior vice president of Adecco Staffing USA, which has 300 branch offices. In addition to the omnipresent hunger for engineers and other   workers, demand is strong for people with   trade skills like welding that fell into disuse during the recession, and for   warehouse and light assembly workers, Ms. Glaser said. “I’m definitely seeing a trend of employers targeting certain pools of workers like the disabled, retirees that may be looking to return to the work force, and    moms,” said Ms. Glaser, whose office is in Lexington, Ky. “Employers are getting very creative. Anything to get a competitive edge. ” David Nilssen, chief executive of Guidant Financial, a   financier based in Seattle, added 30 employees last year to his work force of 80. He said the trouble he has had recruiting and retaining staff members was echoed in a Guidant survey of about 2, 000 clients, who listed a shortage of qualified workers as their main challenge. Many American workers remain cut off from the competitive bidding that has emerged in the eighth year of the recovery. A mismatch of skills or location, the lack of support like child care and employer discrimination are some of the reasons that high school graduates,   factory workers, members of minorities, baby boomers and others have failed to find or regain a comfortable footing in the labor force. However strong (or weak) last month’s figures are ultimately viewed, they are a legacy of the Obama administration, since they are based on surveys before Mr. Trump took office on Jan. 20. Some employers may have made staffing decisions in anticipation of a Republican administration, but this report does not reflect any specific policy changes. (The way the government estimates the jobless rate does not change from one administration to the next.) Still, given the timing, the January job figures are one benchmark against which the new president’s stewardship of the economy will be judged. There are others. Economists at Moody’s Analytics said in a report this week that at least six other measures should be used to determine whether the economy has reached full employment. The list included the proportion of those not in the labor force who want a job, the size of the pool of   unemployed and the degree of wage growth. The share of   adults who are in the labor force, meaning they have a job or are actively looking for one, has been dragging along at historical lows, but it bumped up to 62. 9 percent in January, from 62. 7 in December, a sign that at least some people have returned and that still more might do so if prospects brighten. That growth in the work force raised the official unemployment rate to 4. 8 percent last month. A broader measure of unemployment, which includes the millions who are working part time but would prefer   jobs and those so discouraged by rejections that they have given up searching, also rose, to 9. 4 percent in January from 9. 2 percent in December. Revised estimates from December and November cut 39, 000 jobs from previous totals, although other routine adjustments by the Labor Department showed the overall job creation for 2016 was better than previously reported. Manufacturing jobs, which Mr. Trump has focused on, grew by 5, 000 in January, increases that were countered by a revised estimate that reduced December’s gains. The Department of Labor will issue one more revised estimate for December, and two more for January. At the lower end of the pay scale, state and local   increases  —   ranging from as small as 5 cents an hour in Florida and Alaska to $1. 95 an hour in Arizona  —   affected about 4. 3 million workers across 19 states in January. The widest impact was felt in Arizona, California and Washington, where more than 1 in 10 workers got a raise. Employees in Oregon, the District of Columbia and Maryland are scheduled to get an increase later this year. The disappointing overall wage growth can be traced in part to the financial industry, which had a 0. 1 percent drop in pay. Analysts, backed by research from the Federal Reserve, have been recalibrating their assessments of what constitutes a strong number of hires, given how far the official unemployment rate has fallen. Economists estimate that it takes 50, 000 to  110, 000 new jobs to absorb growth in the population and keep the jobless rate steady. The current   average is 183, 000. Mr. Trump, who ordered an    hiring freeze for the federal government last week, has pledged on the White House website to create 25 million jobs  —   a staggering number that would eclipse the total number of   jobs created during Ronald Reagan’s   tenure, George Bush’s   term and George W. Bush’s eight years combined.