Good morning. Here’s what you need to know to start your day: • Travelers from seven predominantly Muslim nations and vetted refugees from all nations can continue to enter the U. S. while the Trump administration argues against a federal judge’s blocking of the president’s immigration order. Here is where the battle stands. Early setbacks have led President Trump and his advisers to rethink their improvisational approach to governing. Above, an Iraqi grandmother being welcomed by her family in Virginia. _____ • Marine Le Pen, the French   presidential candidate, set the tone for the rest of her campaign for the election in April by offering a portrait of dystopia in urgent need of radical upheaval. Emmanuel Macron, her likely runoff opponent, invited American academics and companies alarmed by Mr. Trump’s rhetoric to seek refuge in France. Books and TV shows are tapping into the country’s anxious preoccupation with decline. _____ • President Trump said that he would work with Russia and Ukraine to “help them restore peace along the border” after a first telephone conversation with the Ukrainian president on Saturday. The same day,   separatists accused Ukraine of killing a senior commander in a car bombing. When asked by an interviewer why he respected President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia even though he is “a killer,” Mr. Trump appeared to equate Mr. Putin’s actions with those of the U. S.: “What, you think our country’s so innocent?” Mr. Trump said he wanted Russia’s help in fighting ISIS and “Islamic terrorism all over the world. ” _____ • The Islamic State has made strategic, and deadly, use of messaging apps. Counterterrorism experts say the group has guided “lone wolves” around the world, right down to picking the targets and finding the guns. The Turkish police arrested several hundred people suspected of being ISIS operatives. _____ • The New England Patriots won Super Bowl LI. Tom Brady led his team to a   overtime victory over the Atlanta Falcons, becoming the first quarterback in N. F. L. history to win five Super Bowls. Lady Gaga didn’t make political statements in her halftime show, but ads by   Airbnb and Budweiser touched on immigration and diversity. In a first, Pope Francis delivered a video message, in Spanish. _____ • China is challenging the U. S.’s   strategic monopoly on artificial intelligence, widely seen as the key factor in the next generation of warfare. Above, a Chinese processor in the world’s fastest supercomputer. • The International Monetary Fund holds a crucial board meeting to discuss whether it will participate in the third Greek bailout in seven years. • Cypriots in reunification talks fear Russian meddling. A breakthrough could open the way for the development of gas reserves in the eastern Mediterranean, possibly upsetting Russian gas exports. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • In Romania, as many as half a million people took to the streets to press the government to maintain anticorruption measures. “Why are we still here now?” one said. “Because we can’t trust this new government. ” [The New York Times] • Conservatives in Germany are set to formally nominate Angela Merkel as their candidate in the September election, despite internal rifts over her immigration policies. [Reuters] • Leading advocates of Catalonia’s secession from Spain, including its former leader Artur Mas, are facing trial today over a nonbinding independence referendum. [Politico] • Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel will seek to shore up support for a tougher stance against Iran in talks in London today. [The Guardian] • Pushback from Congress and cabinet officials appears to have prompted the Trump White House to back off its consideration of reopening C. I. A. “black site” prisons overseas. [The New York Times] • U. S. Special Operations troops have died in greater numbers than conventional troops over the last 12 months  —   a first. [The New York Times] • “One of my easiest and biggest heists. ” That’s how the acrobatic burglar known as “Spiderman” described his 2010 theft of five masterpieces from the Museum of Modern Art in Paris. [The New York Times] • We’re in Week 2 of New Year’s resolution month, when we’re helping you stick to your goals. If you joined last week, welcome back. If not, there’s still time to participate. A key to staying motivated is to create habits that take away the opportunity to slip up. This is a concept my colleague Charles Duhigg has explored: “At the core of every habit is a neurological loop with three parts: a cue, a routine and a reward. To understand how to create habits  —   such as exercise habits  —   you must learn to establish the right cues and rewards. ” This article tells you how to do that. I can attest to the power of this approach, and we want you to try it out yourself. Email us with one habit that would support your resolution, and how you’re going to create it. Near the end of the month, we’ll check back in with some of these and see how you did.  —   Tim Herrera, Smarter Living editor • Recipe of the day: For a step away from weeknight pasta, try your hand at ricotta gnocchi. • Cameroon’s national soccer team defeated Egypt to win its fifth Africa Cup trophy. • After 49 years, the   band Black Sabbath chose Birmingham, England, for what it said was its final concert. • Esquire magazine, long a men’s bible, looks to chart a new course in an era of transgender bathrooms and pink hats. • Queen Elizabeth II of Britain celebrates her sapphire jubilee today, marking the 65th year of her reign. • Alex Lewis lost his arms and legs to a blood infection. He now says the devastating ordeal made him the man he is  —   “in a good way. ” His resilience has turned him into a national figure in Britain. Last week, the actor Peter Capaldi made headlines when he announced he would be leaving his starring role on “Doctor Who,” the   British television series about a   alien. The Doctor  —   who isn’t referred to as Doctor Who  —   is a Time Lord from a distant planet who explores the universe in a time machine called the Tardis (which stands for Time and Relative Dimension in Space). A plucky human companion usually accompanies the Doctor, who faces a rotating cast of alien adversaries. Originally conceived as a   educational program, the series began in 1963 and, with the exception of a   gap ( ) has been broadcast since. The show is a national institution in Britain and a cult favorite elsewhere in the world, with more than 800 episodes (a Guinness world record). The Doctor is capable of regenerating, a concept that was introduced to prolong the series when its first lead actor, William Hartnell, left amid failing health. Mr. Capaldi, above, is the 12th actor  —   and the 12th white man  —   to fill the role. Fans have urged the producers to address the lack of diversity when the 13th Doctor makes his  —   or her  —   debut. Chris Stanford contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. Read the latest edition of the U. S. briefing here and the latest for Asia and Australia here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes. com.