Warnings  —   or, in some cases, celebrations  —   that the Democrats are on the verge of a disastrous collapse have been growing more frequent recently. [Since the election, Rush Limbaugh has been hammering the point that the campaign has only continued  —   and extended the trend set in 2010, when Democrats lost the House.   Since then, Democrats have lost 1200 national and statewide seats. And earlier this week, Stewart Lawrence, writing in the Daily Caller, and picking up on a study by the centrist “Third Way” think tank, noted that the Democrats are now almost exclusively a coastal party, with a couple of lone interior outposts such as Chicago and Minneapolis.  According to the study, while Hillary Clinton beat Trump in California, New York and Massachusetts by 30% Trump won the rest of the states by  %.  Some 32 state legislatures are in Republican hands, but in only five states do Democrats control both houses of the legislature and the governor’s mansion. And, as many (including Lawrence) note, in 2018 the Democrats must defend 10 U. S. Senate seats in states that Trump won.  Meanwhile, Republican Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, once thought dead in the water, won   in 2016, as did John McCain in Arizona, despite the fact that many conservatives, sick of his antics, voted for the Democrat. If the left can’t win these seats  —   the most   of fruit  —   where can they win? The fact is, although we now know the polls were horribly wrong, Trump’s victory was quite small compared to what it might have been. Consider: Trump lost these seven states by a total of 510, 000 votes  —   shifting 51 electoral votes and narrowly denying him a massive landslide territory. The “flip factor”  —   what is needed to reverse the decision  —   was a mere 260, 000 votes. Trump gained 290, 000 votes more than Romney in Pennsylvania alone between 2012 and 2016. In short, the fake news media is missing a much larger story: that the Democrats are teetering on the edge of an abyss that could see them utterly wiped out in 2018 and 2020. Larry Schweikart is the c&  with Breitbart News’ Joel Pollak, of the new book, How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, is available from Regnery.  