Even though most Americans view California as a lost cause —  the “land of fruits and nuts” —  and now, the epicenter of resistance to   Trump, it would be a mistake to ignore it. [The whiny, crybaby brigade of Democrats in leadership, who wield unchecked power over the most populous, and in many ways, the most significant state.  California Democrats doubled down this week —  hiring former US Attorney General Eric Holder to go on offense against the policies of the incoming White House.   Trump should engage California’s petulant leaders in much the same way —  “pick a fight. ” Ignoring California in hopes that it will go away would be a disastrous mistake.  California is far too important to the national security of the United States to simply ignore it. In spite of the   water crisis that has devastated the world’s “food basket,” (the San Joaquin Valley) California still supplies a majority of US agricultural products for export.  Grapes, citrus, almonds —  yes, fruits and nuts —  (no surprise here) —  in addition to beef, poultry, dairy, tomatoes, all manner of vegetables, alfalfa, wine, cotton  …    to name a few. Water wars between federal and state regulators, environmentalists, the Democrat governor, the   state legislature, and farmers have gone on for decades with devastating results.  Much of the world’s most fertile farmland lies fallow, as groundwater, its lifeblood, is slowly siphoned off to keep farmers alive.   Trump has already wisely tapped a few leaders from the crucial Central Valley region, which is not only known for its agriculture but is also home to vast quantities of domestic oil sitting atop the massive Monterey Shale. Both food and energy security are critical to the security of a nation. So far the new president’s appointment to EPA, Scott Pruitt, bodes well for California.  A “  skeptic,” Pruitt will loathe to ruining the economy in the name of “fake science,” and could be the best friend California farmers have had in decades.  Any relief from California’s crushing “climate change” regulations —   affecting everything from regulating dust kicked up by tractors, to requiring dairy farmers to capture cow flatulence —  could be a windfall for this persecuted industry. And if the EPA took a balanced approach to the Endangered Species Act, weighing food production against the life of one tiny, insignificant, bait fish —  the Delta Smelt —  which has become the proxy for the environmentalist activists who populate the bureaucracies at both the federal and state level, water would once again flow to the San Joaquin Valley. An old saying —  “Whiskey’s for drinking, water’s for fighting. ” —  has been true for far too long. But water’s not the only thing hanging in the balance. Land use is a massive issue all over the West. The Federal Government claims ownership of almost 50% of California’s land —  a source of constant harassment for ranchers, loggers and anyone trying to operate a business in or around the land controlled by BLM, US Forest Services, and other federal agencies.  Picking a Representative from a western state like Ryan Zinke of Montana, as the nominee for Secretary of the Interior was another brilliant move. But the biggest issue that Mr. Trump raised in his campaign by far —  and the one that is front and center in the showdown with the California Democrat monopoly —  is immigration. What a President Trump does on immigration affects California’s 38 million people more than any other state. California officials have declared California to be a “sanctuary” from any enforcement of federal immigration laws, and are defying the new president by refusing to cooperate with immigration officials in any way —  preferring to dump criminal aliens on the streets so they can terrorize citizens rather than hand them over for deportation. Since immigration is one of the specifically enumerated duties of the Federal Government, this is the fight you need to pick, Mr. President. A few action items to consider: The future for millions of Californians is in your hands, Mr. President. Will you engage and fight this battle and win a victory for the American people or punt like every administration before you? The world is watching. Godspeed, Tim Donnelly, Former California State Assemblyman, Author, Patriot Not Politician: Win or Go Homeless, FaceBook: https:  . facebook. . donnelly.  Twitter:  @PatriotNotPol