Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the  .) A couple of months ago, then   Kamala Harris appointed Julie Chavez Rodriguez to be her state director, overseeing operations in California. Ms. Rodriguez, 38, would “give voice to our vulnerable communities,” Ms. Harris said at the time. Ms. Rodriguez had experience. Her most recent job was in the White House serving as senior deputy director of public engagement and special assistant to President Barack Obama. But she also brought a personal connection to politics  —   she is the granddaughter of Cesar Chavez, the great labor leader for farmworkers. Raised in the Central Valley, Ms. Rodriguez was surrounded by activism. Once, at age 9, she was arrested during a protest outside a supermarket while distributing fliers about pesticide risks. Ever since, those battles have shaped her path, she said. We caught up with Ms. Rodriguez by phone. Some excerpts from the conversation: • Tell me about your gig. What have you been up to? • What are you hearing from unauthorized immigrants in the state? And what are you telling them? • What do you think your grandfather would make of all this? • You were in Washington for more than seven years. How is it coming back to California? (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • After President Trump’s immigration ban, employees (not executives) pushed Silicon Valley to go   political. [The New York Times] • Democrats went after Mr. Trump for calling California “out of control. ” They noted the state’s massive economy. [The Associated Press] • Tensions have flared between Mr. Trump and Mexico’s leader. But the mayors of San Diego and Tijuana are reaffirming ties. [San Diego  ] • The Ninth Circuit in San Francisco is set to rule on Mr. Trump’s travel ban. [The New York Times] • A U. C. Berkeley evolutionary biologist declared his intention to run for the Senate. His slogan: “Liberty, Equality, Reality. ” [The New York Times] • California Republicans are asking the Trump administration to block funding for the bullet train. [Los Angeles Times] • Remember the BART janitor who earned $270, 000 a year? A television crew caught him spending hours inside a closet. [KTVU] • Kyle Shanahan was hired as the 49ers coach. His mission: restore a franchise that’s won five Super Bowls. [San Francisco Chronicle] • The Hollywood Reporter’s top editor, Janice Min, is leaving, which may foreshadow its sale. [The New York Times] • David Axelrod, a Los Angeles composer whose work was sampled in some of  ’s biggest hits, has died. He was 83. [Los Angeles Times] • Video: A colony of 15, 000 Monarch butterflies returned to Pismo Beach. [San Luis Tribune] Mayor Ed Lee announced Monday that San Francisco’s main community college would be tuition free for city residents. “When our city works together we can accomplish great things,” he said during a news conference. To pay the cost to City College of San Francisco, the city will draw from the increase of a real estate transfer tax that voters approved in November. Lately, California has seen a spike in programs offering support to community college students, propelled in part by a nationwide push to improve access to higher education. In November, a coalition of education leaders in the San Joaquin Valley introduced an initiative that would provide a free semester of community college to students who meet certain academic goals. City College of San Francisco, founded in 1935, serves about 60, 000 students. Until now, course costs for city residents have run $46 a unit, or roughly $1, 100 a year. Even with that expense waived, students will still have to figure out their living costs. In San Francisco, that’s no small order. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.