Britain’s Jewish population has been warned there is a “significant” threat to their communities from Islamic State terrorists as Home Secretary Amber Rudd  revealed Jews had been identified as a “legitimate and desirable target”by jihadists. [Speaking at the annual fundraising dinner for the Community Security Trust (CST) a Jewish charity that works with police to counter   hate crimes, Rudd described   as a “deplorable form of hatred” and said the government is making a  £13. 4 million contribution to protect threatened Jewish sites.  She said: “There have been terrorist attacks on our doorstep, in France, Germany and Belgium and attacks on British people overseas. We’ve seen terrorists target Jews specifically in recent years including in Paris, Brussels, Toulouse and Copenhagen. “Just last month a    girl was charged with terrorism offences in Denmark after she was caught planning to blow up a Jewish school. And Daesh literature continues to identify the Jewish community as a ‘desirable and legitimate target’. ” She added: “It is vital we ensure the safety and security of our Jewish community and this Government will continue to do all we can to stamp out these vile attacks and encourage those who experience them to come forward. ” Prime Minister Theresa May provided a video message welcoming guests to the dinner. She thanked CST for its work and pledged: As Breitbart News has reported, the warning to UK’s Jewish community comes as a recent study shows   hate incidents are surging to record highs in Britain. The CST said last month there were on average more than three   incidents per day in 2016. It said there were 1, 309 incidents last year, a 36 percent increase over the year before. It is the highest total since the group started keeping records in 1984. Most of the incidents involved verbal abuse, hate mail and graffiti. There were also 81 cases of vandalism and damage to Jewish property. The charity said there is no single explanation for the rise in incidents.  