The question from the analyst on Thursday was delicate enough. In agreeing to buy the Craftsman tool brand from Sears Holdings, how would Stanley Black  Decker protect itself from legal issues that could arise at the seller down the line? But the response from Stanley Black  Decker’s chief executive, James M. Loree, acknowledged a concern that many on the conference call were likely to have harbored: that Sears could be forced to file for bankruptcy protection someday. “We expect to get this approved before there is any indication whatsoever that there would be any restructuring of that nature from Sears,” Mr. Loree said, adding that he believed such a move was not imminent. The sale of Craftsman, valued at more than $775 million, was meant to prevent that day of reckoning by raising   cash for Sears. For Sears, selling one of its classic brands  —   one it created nearly a century ago  —   is the latest move to bolster its balance sheet during a prolonged sales slump. Edward S. Lampert, the chairman and chief executive of Sears, has struggled for years to find  ways to help the company, as much through esoteric financial maneuvers as through operational fixes. These have been tough times for retailers. Macy’s and Kohl’s said this week that their holiday sales were weaker than expected. Macy’s also announced plans to cut more than 10, 000 jobs and close 100 stores. Sears also suffered during the season, with   sales at its Sears and Kmart units down at least 12 percent. Sears has been in trouble far longer. Under Mr. Lampert, who is also a hedge fund manager, Sears has consistently lagged behind its peers, as analysts said, pointing to underinvestment in stores and slumping sales. Last September, analysts at Moody’s estimated that the company’s negative cash flow for its 2016 fiscal year would be $1. 5 billion. As of Oct. 29, Sears had $258 million in cash and equivalents on hand, compared with $3. 1 billion in   debt, the company said. Its market value Thursday morning, by comparison, was $1. 2 billion, even with a jump in its stock price after the Craftsman news. Sears shares surged as much as 8 percent on Thursday, before ending up 0. 3 percent on a day when some retail stocks tumbled. Sears has long been dogged by predictions that it would eventually be forced into bankruptcy. But on Thursday, the company listed its latest initiatives for shoring up its cash position, including closing 150 more stores and raising up to $1 billion through a $500 million loan backed by its real estate and a previously announced loan from Mr. Lampert’s hedge fund. “We are taking strong, decisive actions today to stabilize the company and improve our financial flexibility in what remains a challenging retail environment,” Mr. Lampert, the company’s biggest shareholder, said in a statement. Stanley Black  Decker will be able to sell Craftsman tools in even more outlets. Today, only 10 percent of the product lineup is sold outside Sears stores. “Craftsman is a legendary American brand,” Mr. Loree said in a statement. “This agreement represents a significant opportunity to grow the market. ” Reaching the deal took months, as Mr. Loree acknowledged on the analyst call. Last spring, Sears announced that it had hired the banks Citigroup and LionTree as advisers to explore the sale of some of its   brands, including Craftsman, DieHard and Kenmore, to raise money. Stanley Black  Decker was one of several dozens of companies approached during the summer about bidding on the tool business. But after the company and its bankers at Deutsche Bank spent time devising a potential takeover bid, Stanley Black  Decker turned its eyes toward buying Newell Brands’ tool business, a deal announced in October. By late fall, however, Sears returned to ask if Stanley Black  Decker would reconsider a bid for Craftsman. Under the deal, Stanley Black  Decker will pay $525 million when the transaction closes, which is expected to occur by   and an additional $250 million at the end of the third year after closing. Sears will also collect a percentage of new Craftsman sales for 15 years after the deal closes. The transaction is now valued at $900 million. “We literally spent months putting this transaction together and to cover each other’s needs and manage the risk profile for both parties,” Mr. Loree told analysts.