The populist,   parties of Europe are taking inspiration from the Presidency of Donald J Trump in the United States, remarks the Gatestone Institute in a new report. [Inspired by the inauguration of U. S. President Donald J. Trump, the leaders of Europe’s main   parties have held a   rally aimed at coordinating a political strategy to mobilize potentially millions of disillusioned voters in upcoming elections in Germany, the Netherlands and France.  Appearing together in public for the first time, Marine Le Pen, leader of the French National Front, Frauke Petry, leader of the Alternative for Germany (AfD) Geert Wilders, leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) Matteo Salvini, leader of Italy’s Northern League and Harald Vilimsky of Austria’s Freedom Party gathered on January 21 at a rally in Koblenz, Germany, where they called on European voters to participate in a “patriotic spring” to topple the European Union, reassert national sovereignty and secure national borders. The   rally was held under the banner of the Europe of Nations and Freedom (ENF) a group established in June 2015 by Members of the European Parliament from nine counties to oppose European federalism and the transfer of political power from voters to unelected bureaucrats in Brussels, the de facto capital of the European Union. Referring to the June 2016 decision by British voters to leave the European Union, and the rise of President Donald Trump in the United States, Le Pen said: “We are living through the end of one world, and the birth of another. We are experiencing the return of  . 2016 was the year the   world woke up. 2017, I am sure, will be the year in which the peoples of the European continent rise up. ” Wilders added: “The world is changing. America is changing. Europe is changing. It started last year with Brexit, yesterday there was Trump and today the   parties gathered in Koblenz are making a stand. The genie will not go back into the bottle again, whether you like it or not. The people of the West are awakening. They are throwing off the yoke of political correctness. ” Polls indicate that the political sea change engulfing the United States is fueling support for   parties in Europe. In addition to anger over eroding sovereignty, a growing number of Europeans are rebelling against decades of   multiculturalism, politically correct speech codes and mass migration from the Muslim world.   …    Read more at the Gatestone Institute