You never know when a frog playing an electronic game will lead to an experiment on the physics of saliva. But then, who even knew that frogs could play electronic games? So let’s start with that. Alexis C. Noel, a Ph. D. student in mechanical engineering at Georgia Tech, and her supervisor, David L. Hu, were watching a viral YouTube video in which a frog is attacking the screen of a smartphone running an   game. It appears to be winning. They started wondering how  —   in reality  —   frog tongues stick to insects so quickly when they shoot out to grab them, and decided it was a phenomenon worth studying. “It’s been an adventure ever since,” Ms. Noel said. First, the whole frog tongue slap shot occurs in the blink of an eye, requiring Ms. Noel and her colleagues to shoot   video of a variety of frogs at the Atlanta Botanical Garden and Zoo Atlanta. Then they ran tests on the saliva itself and the frog tissue. Ms. Noel fondly recalled spending hours at night in the lab scraping tongues from dissected frogs donated by a biology class at the university. “I needed about a fifth of a teaspoon of saliva,” she said. With data on the speed of the tongue shot and retraction, the viscosity  —   or stickiness  —   of the saliva, and the softness of the tongue tissue, they came up with a computer simulation to test their ideas of what was going on. What they found was that frog saliva, which is normally 50, 000 times stickier than human saliva, flows freely when it hits an insect. That makes the saliva a   fluid, which means that the speed at which it flows (to be precise, its shear rate) changes how viscous it is. In the case of frog saliva, the faster it is forced to flow, the looser it gets. When the frog tongue hits a cricket, the saliva becomes 100 times less viscous and flows around the cricket into every little crevice. By the time the frog starts to pull its tongue back, in a much smoother and slower motion than the body slam attack, the saliva has gotten thick and sticky again and the tongue has wrapped all around the cricket. There is one more step. The frog has to get the cricket unstuck and into its stomach. What helps here is that frog swallowing involves retracting its  eyeballs  —   so violently that it loosens up the saliva again. The researchers published their findings in Royal Society Interface. Dr. Hu said the detailed understanding of how the process worked had obvious applications for the growing field of soft robots made of very flexible materials. Not that they will have tongues, but they may need to grab and release  —   who knows what  —   with appendages more like tongues than metal claws. Ms. Noel said her research was “all about how you grab things with very soft surfaces. ” She is also studying cat tongues, for instance. They are covered in tiny little curved spikes, like claws, which, oddly enough, are very good at detangling snarls in fur.