Many of the world’s winter athletes, now preparing for the season’s championship events, are frustrated with the response of sports officials to the Russian doping scandal and are wondering why implicated Russian Olympians still turn up at the starting line. Hundreds of athletes from dozens of nations have signed petitions, threatened to boycott major events and called for sports authorities to act on evidence that the urine samples of dozens of Russian athletes were tampered with to conceal widespread doping at the last Winter Olympics, in Sochi, Russia, in 2014. Russian athletes implicated in the Sochi cheating have continued to compete, and none have been disqualified by the International Olympic Committee, as officials continue further inquiries of their own. “We will not sacrifice a full and thorough investigation that will be legally scrutinized simply to speed up the process,” Mark Adams, a spokesman for the Olympic committee, said Tuesday. Revelations of Russia’s doping schemes have compelled Olympic officials to expand their retesting of summer Olympians  —   which have so far resulted in sanctions against dozens of athletes  —   but their scrutiny has not affected many winter athletes so far. The Association of International Olympic Winter Sports Federations cited four major competitions that had been moved out of Russia for the   season after an outcry from athletes, including the   skiing World Cup finals and the bobsled and skeleton world championships. Accused Russian athletes have continued to participate in those competitions, the winter sports organization said, because of “the presumption of innocence, the right to be heard and due process. ” Responding to a petition signed by more than 150 athletes, global officials for biathlon will meet in Austria on Wednesday, ahead of that sport’s world championships, to discuss the doping scandal and broader disciplinary policy. Prominent athletes, including the French biathlon champion Martin Fourcade, a winner of two gold medals at Sochi, had threatened to skip the competition unless officials addressed their concerns. The athletes have called for stricter penalties for drug violations  —   including longer bans of up to eight years and higher fines of up to 1 million euros  —   while also asking that officials, in scrutinizing the accused Russian athletes, balance thoroughness with speed in order to preserve the integrity of this year’s competitions. “Given the unprecedented and urgent nature of the current situation,” the athletes wrote, “we do not have time to wait” until 2018, when biathlon’s full leadership is next due to convene formally. The biathlon officials are also expected to vote this week on moving the 2021 world championships out of Russia. The competition was assigned to the nation in the fall, after the International Olympic Committee had expressly directed sports officials not to award new events to Russia in light of the doping scandal. Should the biathlon officials decline to move the event, the World   Agency could impose a penalty, possibly threatening the sport’s place at the 2018 Winter Olympics, in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Russia’s national team itself could face disciplinary action ahead of the 2018 Games, something some antidoping officials have called a parallel punishment for systemic cheating at the last Winter Olympics. As Olympic officials review the evidence delivered late last year by the World   Agency and an independent investigator, the Canadian lawyer Richard H. McLaren, they are considering not just the individual cases across sports but what collective punishment may be warranted in light of the Russian government’s involvement. Much of Mr. McLaren’s evidence was made public on a website, with individual names redacted. The identities of the implicated athletes were shared privately with sports officials, although some sports organizations have called the evidence insufficient. “In some cases, provisional suspensions have had to be lifted and procedures dropped due to a lack of evidence currently provided by WADA to issue sanctions able to stand up to legal challenge,” the winter sports organization said in a statement. WADA, the antidoping regulator, is scheduled to meet with the winter sports organizations this month to discuss the evidence. Meanwhile, athletes are considering the implications of sanctions. Katie Uhlaender, an American skeleton racer who placed fourth in Sochi, has wondered for months if she will inherit an Olympic medal, after learning that the Russian athlete who placed third in that competition, Elena Nikitina, was among those whose urine sample was manipulated. Uhlaender has faced Nikitina in competition several times in the last month alone, after bobsled and skeleton officials lifted a provisional suspension on implicated Russian athletes. Investigations into those cases are continuing, those officials said. “The I. O. C. needs to step up,” Uhlaender said. “The McLaren report seems very clear: There was tampering. All I’m asking for is an even playing field. If you let someone get away with something, why wouldn’t they just continue doing it? Why wouldn’t others do it?” Few Olympic sports have taken such strong action on the issue as track and field, which voted unanimously Monday to keep the ban on Russia in place until the nation demonstrated change and fulfilled specific conditions.