In 2009, Rayshell Byers was an ambitious    with dreams of college and law school and a grand plan to pay for it with a modeling career. Seven years later, she is in her second year of college, and law school is in reach. (With a scholarship in hand, modeling is no longer a financial requirement.) In 2009, Curtis Byers was a shy    with a halo of hair, an aptitude for science and an allergy to school. Seven years later, the halo has been buzzed short, but the love of science remains and he is aiming for a career in veterinary care. In 2009, the oldest of the three Byers siblings, Daniel, was 17 and a student at Park West High School in Hell’s Kitchen in Manhattan, where he was preparing for a career in cooking. Seven years later, he is a professional cook, with a string of restaurant jobs and catering work on his résumé. His current goal: culinary school (and a way to pay for it). And from her   Harlem apartment, Lynette Byers, now 85, keeps an eye on all three  —   the boys still at home and Rayshell in her second year at Salem College, an  ’s university in   N. C. That is a little too far for Ms. Byers’s complete comfort, even though Rayshell has provided her with an iPhone to keep in touch via text and FaceTime. “I can text her,” Ms. Byers said, “and if she doesn’t get back to me, I’m right on the phone. ” It was the goals, dreams and hopes of the Byerses that led the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, to give them $289 seven years ago  —   $110 for an electric mixer and baking tins for Daniel, $50 for Rayshell’s application fee to an   arts program and $129 for a toolbox for Curtis. Ms. Byers and her sons are not sure where the mixer and toolbox went. “We put it in the bank,” she said. “And it went to good use. ” Strangers still mistake Ms. Byers for her children’s grandmother, which did not bother her in 2009 and does not bother her now. She took in all three as foster babies  —   they are genetic siblings  —   and formally adopted them when she was in her 60s, after her own son had grown. “I guess they keep me young,” she said. During a recent interview, it hardly seemed that seven years had passed, except that Ms. Byers’s sons are taller. (Daniel is 6 feet 6 inches, and Curtis is just a few inches shorter.) Daniel gets Rayshell on FaceTime, and the Byerses huddle around on Ms. Byers’s easy chair for a talk that defies both time and distance. Rayshell talks classes: criminal law, psychology, English, professional writing. “You can tell you’re going to be a lawyer,” her mother teases. “You keep talking. ” Daniel pulls out his personal phone, which is filled with photos of dishes he has created: his own spins on baked chicken, rice and cabbage, shrimp Alfredo, a variety of soul food dishes and lots of Mexican food. “I like spicy,” he said. Daniel added that he spends at least three hours a day cooking, even on days when he is not working. And that is fine with Ms. Byers, who is content to let Daniel do the shopping and the cooking, even if he is not as good with the cleaning up. Daniel’s restaurant jobs mean long hours  —   he sometimes leaves the house at 4 a. m.  —   and he is trying to save for culinary school. Right now, Ms. Byers said, “It costs too much, and he doesn’t want to go into debt. ” Curtis, then as now, is the quietest, and still does not like to talk about himself unless the subject is his skill at video games. Then he gets very technical in a blur of conversation about the tools he uses, the games he plays and the avatars he employs. “It started when I was young,” he said. “I got into it with the graphics. ” But when talk turns to the future, Curtis grows more serious: “I want to work with animals. ” Financing that education is a problem here, too. The family’s participation in the Neediest Cases campaign looms large in their memories. It goes beyond the money itself. “It made me realize,” Rayshell said, “that I wanted to be in a position where I could be the one to help. ”