Mitt Romney attempted to purchase a stake in the Miami Marlins a few months ago, and that effort stalled with no sign of return. Now, the Romney’s have shifted targets, and want to purchase a small share of the New York Yankees. [According to Jon Heyman at FanRag, “If the deal goes through, it is expected to be $25 million to $30 million per percentage point and thought to be interested in one or two percentage points. The Yankees are valued around $3 billion or more.  “Mitt Romney, in response to an earlier version of this story about his potential involvement in a sale, denied that he’s involved in the talks in a statement, per a spokesperson. The former governor of Massachusetts, Romney is a lifelong Red Sox fan and is sensitive to being associated with the Yankees after hearing early reaction from Red Sox fans. ” Romney has apparently conquered his sensitivity towards an association with the Yankees by making the purchase through his son, Tagg, as a part of the family business. According to Heyman, “However, (Mitt Romney’s) family is in talks to buy a small stake (in the Yankees) led by his son Tagg and business partner Spencer Zwick through the family company, Solamere Capital  …    . Tagg is Mitt’s oldest son at 46. He previously worked in marketing with the Dodgers and Reebok before founding and selling a software company. He later became a partner in a private equity firm, Solamere Capital, before working as a senior aide on his father’s presidential campaign in 2008 and as an adviser in 2012. ” And that is apparently how you get around “sensitivity. ” There is something really gross about this whole thing. Of course, businessmen look for great business opportunities regardless of where they find them. No one becomes a billionaire by sticking to emotional fandom, or rooting interests. However, to have a   “lifelong Red Sox fan” buy a piece of their archrival, is, again, gross. Not to say that Romney wouldn’t be a good owner. He’s a tremendously successful man who would no doubt have many contributions as a part of any organization. However, as a Red Sox fan, the Yankee organization is not one. After all, does this look right to you? Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter: @themightygwinn