Officials at the Department of Homeland Security have announced they are temporarily closing a   process for companies seeking to hire foreign professionals via the controversial   outsourcing program. [The decision by officials working for DHS chief John Kelly to shut the “premium processing” loophole for six months will likely delay approval of   visa requests for months, say employers and some immigration lawyers who make their living by importing foreign replacement workers into the United States.  This is how you try to destroy the   program without input from Congress. 6,  —   (((Greg Siskind))) (@gsiskind) March 4, 2017,  This is a gut punch to our Universities that rely heavily upon the creativity, inspiration and hard work of people from around the world  …     https:  .   —   J. David Jentsch (@jdavidjentsch) March 4, 2017,  The bureaucratic maneuver is not a full reform of the program, which now allows at least 650, 000   foreign professionals to work throughout the United States in jobs sought by young American graduates and by experienced professionals trying to get their own teenagers into college. The maneuver may not even reduce the annual inflow of foreign workers, but it buys time for President Donald Trump, who repeatedly promised to reform the program during the 2016 campaign. “I will end forever the use of the   as a cheap labor program, and institute an absolute requirement to hire American workers first for every visa and immigration program,” he said in a March 2016 statement. “No exceptions,” he added.  The new decision comes a four weeks before April 1, when Trump’s deputies were required by law to quickly distribute roughly 65, 000 more   visas to U. S. and foreign companies eager to import cheap     into the U. S. labor market. The   program is politically unpopular among   professionals because it transfers U. S. professional jobs to foreign workers. Numerous polls show Americans overwhelmingly favor policies that get Americans and immigrants into jobs ahead of additional immigrants or   workers. But the   program is backed by many prestigious companies which are trying to reduce the payroll costs of their professional employees. The companies include Google, Microsft, Amazon, Facebook, Comcast,  Carnival,  Disney,  McDonalds,  Caterpillar  and Uber. Trump’s removal of the   process was slammed by immigration lawyers and by advocates for cheap   labor. The suspension of premium process of   will hurt employees who will not be able to enter the US without an approval notice.  —   elissa taub (@ejtaub) March 3, 2017,  This is going to be disastrous for many medically underserved communities in the US who will have to wait many extra months for their MDs 1,  —   (((Greg Siskind))) (@gsiskind) March 3, 2017,  Visiting faculty won’t arrive to start on time to teach at universities. Founders won’t be able to work in their   companies. 3,  —   (((Greg Siskind))) (@gsiskind) March 4, 2017,  Multinational companies won’t be able to get key people for half a year. People on   will be stuck months waiting to travel abroad. 4,  —   (((Greg Siskind))) (@gsiskind) March 4, 2017,  This really seems like a conscious,   wound. If you wanted to hobble America’s vital industries this would be the way to do it. https:  .   —   David Rothkopf (@djrothkopf) March 5, 2017,  I work in software with many H1B visa holders.  Their cohorts are looking elsewhere now that USA ugly. This already having long term impact. https:  .   —   Alfred Delp (@OhmsParty) March 5, 2017,  The   is only one of several   programs used by companies to import foreign professionals. Overall, the population of foreign     in the United Sates is at least 1 million, because at least two other additional   programs include at least 300, 000 foreign    . The program annually hands out at least 110, 000   visas to foreign workers, and also creates a huge a resident population of at least 650, 000 foreign doctors, scientists, managers,  professors, software experts, statisticians, pharmacists, and designers. The   program is also used by many U.  Indian foutsourcing firms, who usually rent their   employees to   American companies. U. S. universities also have used the program to build a workforce of 100, 000   in prestigious jobs, including professors, doctors and scientists. The increased supply of foreign graduates pushes many   American professionals out of their careers, and pushes younger American graduates into different careers with lower salaries. The sidelined American professionals and their families have been a huge source of support for Trump among   voters because of Trump’s promise to reform the program.