Bobby Freeman, whose “Do You Want to Dance” climbed the pop charts in 1958 and endured long afterward in covers by the Beach Boys, the Ramones, Bette Midler and others, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Daly City, Calif. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, his son Robert Freeman Jr. said on Monday. The death had not been widely reported. Mr. Freeman was still a teenager when he wrote and recorded the song that became his signature. Sung with infectious enthusiasm and featuring a driving Latin rhythm and a joyful guitar solo, “Do You Want to Dance” reached No. 5 on the Billboard singles chart. An energetic showman and dancer, Mr. Freeman was soon touring with Fats Domino and Jackie Wilson and appearing on television shows like “American Bandstand” and “The Dick Clark Saturday Night Beechnut Show. ” Mr. Freeman’s version of “Do You Want to Dance” (also known as “Do You Wanna Dance,” with and without the question mark) embodied the spirit of early rock ’n’ roll, but the secret to the song’s longevity was that artists interpreted it in myriad ways. The Beach Boys reached No. 12 on the Billboard chart in 1965 with a typically     interpretation. John Lennon recorded a dreamy reggae version. The Ramones ramped up Mr. Freeman’s energy to   levels. Both the Mamas and the Papas and Ms. Midler slowed the song down Ms. Midler’s version, a sensual ballad, reached No. 17 on the Billboard chart in 1973. She told CBS News in 2006 that “Do You Want to Dance” was her favorite song. The song was also featured on the soundtrack of George Lucas’s rock ’n’ roll    film “American Graffiti” (1973). Mr. Freeman was not a   wonder. “C’mon and Swim” (1964)  —   a young Sly Stone was its producer and a    —   reached No. 5 on the Billboard chart. “Betty Lou Got a New Pair of Shoes” (1958) also charted. Robert Thomas Freeman was born in Northern California on June 13, 1940, and raised in San Francisco. He attended Mission High School there before joining the Romancers, a   group. In addition to his son Robert, his survivors include another son, Jerrald his partner of 17 years, Michele Ellen two daughters, April Freeman and Nichole Hackett and several grandchildren. Mr. Freeman released a handful of songs after 1964, but none became hits. He spent years performing at clubs in San Francisco, Lake Tahoe, Reno, Las Vegas and other cities, and that was fine with him. “I’m just as content as I could be with what I’m doing,” he told The San Francisco Chronicle in 1990. “I have no complaints whatsoever. ”