  Donald J. Trump arrived at 1 World Trade Center a little before 10 a. m. on Friday to face some of his harshest critics in New York: top editors and digital directors of Condé Nast’s stable of magazines, among them Vanity Fair, The New Yorker and Vogue. According to a tweet by Mr. Trump, he had been invited by Anna Wintour, Condé Nast’s artistic director and the editor of Vogue. Also in attendance were Graydon Carter, the editor of Vanity Fair, who has sparred with Mr. Trump since his days as an editor at Spy magazine in the 1980s, and David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker, who is an expert on Russia. They have been among Mr. Trump’s most vocal detractors, along with the writers at Teen Vogue. The meeting, held in a conference room on the 42nd floor with a view of New Jersey, lasted barely an hour. In answering questions from editors, Mr. Trump addressed health care, climate change, relations with Russia, women’s issues and abortion rights. Mr. Trump mostly reiterated plans or policies he has discussed publicly for months, according to two people who were apprised of the meeting but spoke on condition of anonymity because they had not been authorized to talk. When asked about health care, for instance, he told the group that he did not want to get rid of the Affordable Care Act until he had another plan in place, one of the people said. Several editors contacted declined to discuss the meeting, which was off the record. “Not my preference,” Mr. Carter wrote in an email. “But I will abide by that. ” A Condé Nast spokesman declined to comment. Ms. Wintour visited Mr. Trump at Trump Tower in   after she had criticized the Trump Foundation and suggested that Mr. Trump and his family would personally profit from his time in the White House. Ms. Wintour, a supporter of Hillary Clinton, later apologized for the comments. Mr. Trump was photographed entering Condé Nast’s headquarters alongside Michael Flynn, his choice to be national security adviser. Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, and Kellyanne Conway, his incoming counselor, were also there. Hilary Rosen, a political strategist for SKD Knickerbocker in Washington, said all of Condé Nast’s brands have had a relationship with presidential families over the years. “It is a rich opportunity for content,” she said. Michelle Obama has been on the cover of Vogue, for example. At the same, Ms. Rosen added, “It’s not like their progressive agenda is going to have an impact on Trump. ” Ms. Rosen, who had close ties to the Clinton campaign, characterized Mr. Trump’s meetings with media outlets as “nothing more than an attempt by his team’s part to take the horns off. ” In a phone interview on Friday night, Ms. Conway declined to discuss the substance of the meeting, but said it was an opportunity for Mr. Trump to “connect with the media. ” She added that “no consideration was given to image. ” In December, Mr. Trump criticized Vanity Fair on Twitter after the magazine gave the restaurant in Trump Tower a bad review. Subscription sales have soared in the wake of Mr. Trump’s criticism, the magazine said. And Vanity Fair printed his tweet on its latest cover.