Thursday night and Friday morning were but   acts for Loserpalooza, which erupted into violent riots and crazy stunts after Donald Trump took the oath of office and formally became President of the United States. Some scenes from the madness on Friday afternoon:[Vandalism against vehicles, especially limousines, became all the rage. Anarchist graffiti was scrawled on this one after its windows were smashed:  ”We the people” #DCProtests #NBCBoston pic. twitter.   —   Nick Emmons TV (@nicknbcboston) January 20, 2017,  Another limousine was looted for water by thirsty thugs: Wrecked limo being looted for water pic. twitter.   —   dorkasaurus_rex (@dorkasaurus_rex) January 20, 2017,  Even Larry King’s wheels were vandalized, evidently while his driver was still inside: Protestors in DC smashed the windows of my hired SUV  many other cars. I was working    am ok, but my driver is a bit rattled.  —   Larry King (@kingsthings) January 20, 2017,  Outside the offices of the Washington Post, the brownshirts took things to a new level by setting a limousine on fire: They just lit this limo in front of The Washington Post on fire. Massive black smoke. #inauguration pic. twitter.   —   Tauhid Chappell (@TauhidChappell) January 20, 2017,  Limo on fire pic. twitter.   —   Vann R. Newkirk II (@fivefifths) January 20, 2017,  And, of course, a Fox News vehicle was targeted: . @EamonJavers reports that protesters just smashed apart this vehicle belonging to Fox News that is parked in DC pic. twitter.   —   Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) January 20, 2017,  The “protesters” have shown such a predilection for attacking Starbucks coffee shops that all of their locations in D. C. closed for safety: All DC Starbucks shops are closed for safety concerns after riot damage, according to one of the managers pic. twitter.   —   Emily Shire (@eshire) January 20, 2017,  The rioters are also fond of taunting the police, revealing links to Black Lives Matter and the rest of the   anger machine: Protesters yelling ”cops, pigs, murderers” pic. twitter.   —   Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) January 20, 2017,  As noted previously, they’re brimming with respect for America’s armed forces, too. They   “PIGS” on an Army truck: Army truck leaves after someone spray paints ”pigs” on it pic. twitter.   —   Robbie Gramer (@RobbieGramer) January 20, 2017,  The madness isn’t confined to Washington, D. C. An   protester was caught on video spitting in the face of a police officer in Cleveland: Caught on video:   protester spits in Cleveland officer’s face https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   fox8news (@fox8news) January 20, 2017,  While Cleveland settles for spit, D. C. thugs are throwing bricks of cement at the police: MORE: Protesters throwing bricks of cement at police officers in D. C. as situation devolves, @jeffpeguescbs reports https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) January 20, 2017,  As WFAA News documents, it hasn’t been the most dignified day for some: The demonstrators are really into starting fires, because nothing says “respect for democracy and freedom” like setting a blaze. Trump supporters stepped up to put some of the fires out  …     Trump supporter tries to stamp out trash fire set by a  . pic. twitter.   —   Kevin Johnson (@bykevinj) January 20, 2017,    …     only to be assaulted for their trouble. Someone in a MAGA hat just put out the K St. fire, amid resistance, and that hat was taken by a protestor pic. twitter.   —   Mark W. Smith (@markdubya) January 20, 2017,  The Media Research Center put together a vandalism supercut: The   goons did a good job of shutting down vital intersections, which makes them feel powerful, but annoys the heck out of   citizens with jobs to do. Also, it helped   blogs get their precious “Trump inauguration was  !” meme rolling. #BREAKING: Protesters block traffic on   Freeway near 6th Street exit in #DC: https:  .  #inauguration (via @JDLand) pic. twitter.   —   ABC 7 News  —   WJLA (@ABC7News) January 20, 2017,    protesters have blocked the  . pic. twitter.   —   Breaking911 (@Breaking911) January 20, 2017,  The chaos was not without its moments of levity. Here we see bemused authorities dealing with a gang of protesters who   themselves together: Some protested have duct taped selves together pic. twitter.   —   Andy Sher (@AndySher1) January 20, 2017,  Let it be known that capitalism is alive and well in the midst of the chaos: This dude has   buttons for sale with   swag on the flip side of his display pic. twitter.   —   Hunter Walker (@hunterw) January 20, 2017,  The Satanists showed up to declare war on Trump, too: Satanists against Trump arrive in DC. pic. twitter.   —   Breaking911 (@Breaking911) January 20, 2017,  Best of all, there was the viral video of an   supporter just plain losing it when the new President was sworn in: An   protester screams ’no’ as Donald Trump is sworn in as the 45th US President pic. twitter.   —   ITV News (@itvnews) January 20, 2017, 