Over its   existence, the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank and its founder, Masayoshi Son, have been known for ambitious and sometimes   moves. Now, SoftBank is nearing its most unusual move yet: It is buying Fortress Investment Group, an American private equity giant that oversees around $70 billion in assets. That business is a radical departure from the technology and telecommunications holdings for which the Japanese company is known. But the acquisition is intended to energize SoftBank’s other enormous new endeavor: a $100 billion technology investment fund that threatens to roil the private equity world. The move highlights the immense ambitions of SoftBank’s brash founder, Mr. Son. The    mogul, who is one of Japan’s richest men, has sought to shake up the American telecommunications industry and recently sought to win over President Trump by announcing intentions to create jobs in the United States. “Fortress’s excellent track record speaks for itself, and we look forward to benefiting from its leadership,   expertise and   investment platform,” Mr. Son said in a statement late Tuesday. “For SoftBank, this opportunity will immediately help expand our group capabilities, and, alongside our     SoftBank Vision Fund platform, will accelerate our SoftBank 2. 0 transformation strategy of bold, disciplined investment and world class execution to drive sustainable   growth. ” Over the past three decades, SoftBank has become one of Japan’s most formidable technology companies. It is perhaps best known for its telecommunications empire, which stretches from Japan to Sprint in the United States. SoftBank also has portfolio of investments that includes stakes in the Alibaba Group of China, the Japanese affiliate of Yahoo and   like the online lender SoFi. At its helm, the entire time, has been Mr. Son. An   businessman, Mr. Son began the business as a software distributor, but eventually moved into cellphone service and became the first Japanese carrier to embrace the iPhone. He has never been known for his modesty, repeatedly boasting about outsize ambitions like dethroning Verizon and ATT atop the American wireless industry with Sprint. SoftBank will be paying $3. 3 billion for Fortress, a premium to the company’s stock market value of $2. 3 billion. As part of the agreement, SoftBank has the option of bringing in partners to help cover the cost of the deal and who may want to become investors in Fortress funds, too, thus increasing assets under management. The deal frees up Peter L. Briger Jr. and Wesley R. Edens of Fortress to focus on their strengths as fund managers  —   several of their private equity funds have produced   returns over time  —   without having to deal with the headaches of running a public company. As leaders of a public company, they struggled mightily to bolster their stock, more so than their competitors. Recently, the firm shut down its flagship hedge fund. The purchase of Fortress, a prominent private equity firm with a specialty in investing in distressed assets, was driven by Rajeev Misra, a former top derivatives expert at Deutsche Bank who has taken a leading role in setting investment strategy for the SoftBank Vision Fund. After leaving Deutsche Bank in 2008, where he had worked closely with Anshu Jain, who headed the bank’s global markets operations, Mr. Misra went to UBS and then spent several months at Fortress, where he came to know the firm’s chairmen, Mr. Briger and Mr. Edens, well. Now, Mr. Misra will be helping steer an enormous new fund that is intended to invest in technology companies worldwide, often by taking huge stakes. SoftBank is expected to contribute at least $25 billion to the fund, while partners in the fund include Saudi Arabia and Apple. All told, SoftBank will now oversee assets under management of $170 billion, making it one of the largest private investors in the world after the Blackstone Group, which manages about $330 billion. While private equity firms have performed poorly as publicly traded stocks, they are attractive in part because of their ability to lock up money for multiple years and charge high fees. As an entity that is regulated  —   if relatively lightly compared with, say, a bank  —   Fortress will have to operate at arm’s length from the $100 billion Vision Fund when it comes to making investments. And the team of investors under Mr. Misra and Mr. Son will also remain unchanged. Still, it expected that there will be ample opportunity for the Vision Fund to benefit from shared intelligence between the two entities. That could mean Fortress seeing a deal in a telecommunications company that does not fit its mandate and passing it along to the Vision Fund. The transaction also widens the Vision Fund’s capacity to source new investments, given Fortress’s global network. For Fortress, the motivation was to join with one of the world’s most innovative investors and to enter global markets, like the Middle East, where they have trailed some of their peers. Fortress went public on the New York Stock Exchange in 2007, before the financial crisis. But shares of Fortress, like shares of other publicly traded private equity firms, have performed poorly in recent years. Fortress’s stock price is down 80 percent since it began trading, and its executives have made no secret that the joy of being a public company has largely evaporated. The firm’s struggles trace to the financial crisis, when it was slow to exit the subprime loan business, forcing heavy losses. The stock dipped below $1, and the firm did not consistently return to profitability until 2012. At the same time, Mr. Edens positioned the firm to capitalize on the economic recovery, piling back into the subprime business through its purchase of the mortgage servicer Nationstar and consumer lender Springleaf, now known as OneMain Financial. Mr. Edens, a former Lehman Brothers partner who   Fortress, has turned the firm’s $124 million Springleaf investment into a stake valued at roughly $2 billion. Those investments underscore Fortress’s breadth across the American economy. As detailed in a New York Times investigation last year, Fortress is one of several private equity firms that have assumed a pervasive and influential role in daily American life, stepping in for banks that pulled back in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Under the terms of the deal, Fortress will become an independent subsidiary of SoftBank. Fortress’s principals, who control roughly a third of the firm’s voting shares, have agreed to vote in favor of the sale, which is expected to close by year’s end. On Tuesday, before the deal was announced, shares of Fortress rose 6. 5 percent on unusually heavy trading volume.