WASHINGTON  —   Eric Trump has helped raise $16. 3 million for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital of Tennessee over the past decade, a hospital official said in a letter sent to a charity run by Mr. Trump, the  ’s son. The letter comes as Mr. Trump is preparing to remove his name from the charity to avoid conflicts of interest that could emerge from future  . The letter confirms an account Mr. Trump gave to reporters that his organization has raised more than $15 million for the hospital, despite available tax records showing that the Eric Trump Foundation raised less than half that amount. Mr. Trump’s announcement that he will remove his name from the organization is one of a series of steps that members of the Trump family are taking to address potential conflicts before the inauguration. Other steps include terminating planned Trump Organization projects in countries like Azerbaijan, Brazil, Colombia and Georgia. In addition to removing his name from his charitable foundation, Mr. Trump will no longer personally solicit funds for it, he said in several interviews with The New York Times. To further avoid conflicts, Mr. Trump said in an email this week, his    and a Trump Organization executive will step down from the foundation’s executive committee. The Trump Organization will continue to raise money for St. Jude from patrons at its hotels and golf courses, Mr. Trump said. But it will ask them to make contributions directly to the hospital, he said, instead of first sending the money to the Trump Organization. The St. Jude letter said that since its establishment, the Eric Trump Foundation had raised  —   or helped raise through affiliated groups  —   $16. 3 million for the hospital, which offers free care to needy children. Tax documents filed by nonprofit foundations are often delayed by two years, so there is no public accounting of these totals yet available. The letter said that some of the money was raised via related efforts, such as an Eric Trump   team that participates in the New York City Marathon. “I am amazed by the many ways that you have personally embraced our cause and cared for our children and families,” Richard C. Shadyac Jr. president of the hospital’s   organization, wrote in the Dec. 30 letter, which Mr. Trump provided to The Times. “As you are aware, we are expanding our lifesaving work and are working to push cure rates even higher in this country and around the world, while improving the lives of survivors by developing and advancing treatments that reduce side effects. We are only able to do this because of the support provided by donors and supporters like you. ” In his email this week, Mr. Trump said he would “continue to be a vocal advocate for pediatric cancer and St. Jude’s mission. ”   Donald J. Trump has announced that he is shutting down his own personal foundation, although it is currently the target of an investigation by the New York State attorney general over accusations that it did not have the proper permit to solicit contributions, and that it may have used money to benefit Mr. Trump’s own interests. No such accusations have been made about Eric Trump’s foundation.