Welcome to Our Picks, a guide to the best stuff to read, watch and listen to from around the internet. We know you don’t want to read only political news, so we’re collecting great   articles, podcasts, videos and other web treasures you might like when you need a break. And yes, we’re also tooting our own horn here. We’ll share can’  Times stories from the week and surface some gems you might have overlooked. We want to hear from you! Send us feedback about our selections to ourpicks@nytimes. com. • The Monopoly overlords are a ruthless bunch. In 2013 the board game got rid of the iron playing piece, and now, much to our chagrin, they’ve let the thimble go as well. [A. V. Club] • Little Caesars’ founder and Detroit Tigers owner Mike Ilitch died last Friday, which prompted some local outlets to recall that he paid for a decade of Rosa Parks’s rent without ever publicizing it. [WGN Chicago] • Here’s a reason you’ve never quit your job: too much money. That’s probably because you didn’t work on Google’s car project, whose early employees were paid so much that they no longer needed the job security. [Bloomberg] • Did you know the word “fact” only came into popular usage in 1660? It’s a fact! At least according to this quick but broad history of the concept. [History Today] • It’s a familiar tale: A tough East Coast woman moves to Los Angeles, mellows out, gets pregnant, and decides to hunt down a mountain lion haunting the hills below the Hollywood sign. You won’t regret spending some time with this honest account of the hopes, fears, and maniacal determination of one expectant mother. [Elle] • There’s only one Howard Johnson’s restaurant left in the world, and it’s in Lake George, N. Y. Learn all about the history and decline of this   franchise, and the one man keeping the   flame alive. [Eater] • A small yellow box  —   about the size of a cellphone  —   has saved countless lives from surgical complications.  Read how this crucial medical accessory is making an impact in places like Mongolia, and, as a bonus, add the term “pulse oximeter” to your vocabulary. [Mosaic] • If you and your friends can’t agree on whether you love or hate “La La Land,” you’re not alone. Our cultural reporters, editors and critics can’t either. • An unlikely band of Orthodox Jewish students is tearing up the Eastern Collegiate Roller Hockey Association. Because of Sabbath restrictions, they play up to four games on Sunday mornings, sometimes back to back. And they’re currently in first place. •   years ago, The Times published its first crossword puzzle, as a way to give readers a distraction from war news. (This, despite a prior editorial that had described crossword puzzles as “a primitive sort of mental exercise” and a “sinful waste” of time.) Here’s a brief history. • This week’s By the Book interview: Come to learn what’s on George Saunders’s nightstand stay for the part about his   crush on a nun. • Yes, we covered Westminster in the last edition of this roundup, but we just can’t get enough. Here are two more delightful slide shows featuring the cats of Westminster (and a poodle among floral sculptures of dogs) and the stars and their stage moms. • Ever have a conversation with yourself about the choices you’ve made? You might want to watch a master thespian do it. In this   video, Michael K. Williams of “The Wire” fame tries to puzzle out the answer to a    question: Is he typecast? [The Atlantic on YouTube] • How did Sara Blakely go from selling fax machines    to creating the successful hosiery company, Spanx? Grit. Moxy. And scissors. Find out more about this business success story in a   episode of NPR’s “How I Built This. ” [NPR One and iTunes] •  We’re making ink the way people in the 17th century did. How else are we going to use all those leftover oak galls and rainwater? [The Recipes Project] Want Our Picks delivered to your inbox? Sign up for the What We’re Reading newsletter, a   email featuring great stories from around the web selected by members of the New York Times staff.