We hope you got some rest over the holidays, but it’s clear from our mailbox that you remained sharp and attentive readers. We will address a few of those complaints first, before turning to this week’s topics. A   Social Q’s column, which administers lighthearted advice about awkward social situations, addressed what an adult should do when one child taunts another at a holiday party. The specific taunt in question, which was directed toward a Latina girl, was this: “Pack your bags. Trump is going to send you back to Mexico. ” The headline on the column? “Should I Stay Silent During One Child’s Populist Taunt of Another?” Readers took issue with the description of the taunt. The author of the column, Philip Galanes, took the time to reply to a reader who wrote to him directly. Shortly before the new year, an ad ran on a Times story that left some readers befuddled. The ad was indeed a hoax, and readers who realized this have asked The Times to address the issue. Indeed, such ads do seem to find their way onto the Times website occassionally, as a public editor column explained in November, but we asked Sebastian Tomich, senior vice president for advertising and innovation, to comment once more. Here’s his response: An hour into the new year, tragedy struck in Turkey when a gunman attacked an Istanbul nightclub. The lead byline on The Times’s story was anonymous  —   “an Employee of The New York Times”  —   and readers had theories as to why. The public editor’s take: We’ve received several letters asking about the unusual byline. The international editor, Michael Slackman, said he’s not in position to comment but I suspect you are hinting at the right issues in your letter. From my experience, it is not uncommon to use a generic byline when the security of journalists may be at risk, or when a widespread team of editors and reporters is assembling a deadline story. But I’m only speaking for myself, not the paper. Just last week, a Wall Street Journal reporter was detained by Turkish officials for three days and held in isolation. The same story caught readers’ attentions for other reasons, too. Initially, the story reported that the single gunman may have been as many as three gunmen, and they were wearing Santa Claus suits, an image which stayed with readers. The Times, however, never appended a correction to the story nor added a note explaining the change. We asked Slackman about this. Here’s his response: The public editor’s take: Time for me to make my plug again for attaching notes to stories that undergo a notable change from a previous edition. This wasn’t just a routine change in a rapidly unfolding story. It was a rather dramatic visual  —   a team of men in Santa Claus suits firing into the crowd. If that turned into one man dressed like the crowd, as later stories suggest, isn’t it more transparent just to flag that? Another reader raised an issue that will hopefully be addressed in the new year. We asked Alexandra MacCallum, who oversees Times video, for an answer. She told us that while some videos have text overlay, which editors add manually, an automated closed caption system is in the works this year. As trust in the media falters, a reader has taken a stand, one friend at a time. He wrote us to ask for our aid in his mission. We, of course, pointed him to their location on the web, and if you have any upcoming debates, too, you can find The Times’s standards and ethics here. Good luck, and see you next week.