The Sunday wedding announcements in The New York Times have long been a fertile hunting ground for writers of parodies,   and other forms of snark. The best explanation of why our wedding pages make such a tempting target was provided by Robert Baedeker, one of the authors of “Weddings of The Times,” a 2009 book parodying our reports, during an interview on National Public Radio. “The wedding announcements in The Times are so perfect and polished, and the inspiration comes from that sort of primal feeling one gets when one sees a perfect picture, which is to scribble a mustache on it or draw some sunglasses on it,” Mr. Baedeker said. Such scribbled mustaches abound. The website Gawker, before closing last year, routinely took shots at us, including this post  imagining our staff at work: I envision, just so you know, a room of ladies peering skeptically over their bifocals at announcement submissions, occasionally pausing to consult worn leather bound address books  —   “I could have sworn Swoosie Remington was from Darien and not New Canaan,” they sniff  —   while Bob Woletz sits in his office lighting copies of Town  Country on fire. (For the record, Mr. Woletz, the weddings editor, lights up copies of Architectural Digest, not Town  Country.) The comedian and writer Selena Coppock has an NYTVows Twitter feed parodying the wedding pages. Here is an example: In an interview, Ms. Coppock said, almost convincingly, that she does not really hate us. So why do people like her pick on us so much? It’s partly jealousy, she explained, and partly the idea of so many big shots marrying each other. “It seems almost comical, just Ivy League upon Ivy League, the Mayflower and so on,” she said. “People get a kick out of hearing about these important families marrying into these other important families. ” The Times has grown more egalitarian through the years  —   the sons and daughters of truck drivers, waitresses and maintenance workers have graced our pages. (One of our most recent brides, an art teacher for an   program, bought her wedding dress for $6.) But that patrician reputation is hard to shake. There have been other parodies and commentaries aplenty: Jena Friedman has created videos poking fun at us, and Zach Miller’s “Veiled Conceit,” a blog from years ago, was the most elaborate. L. V. Krause wrote a memorable piece about why she keeps reading us, angrily. Here in the weddings section, we don’t mind an occasional insult thrown our way. Much. Just spell the names right, as the saying goes. Sometimes we even chuckle  —   in a dignified,    sort of way. In that spirit, we’re sharing three of the better takes on our announcements: 1. Terri Pous of BuzzFeed was so mortified by our prose that she produced a   quiz last summer asking readers whether an excerpt actually came from our pages or from her own fanciful mind. Following is a real one followed by a fake one: • “Before she started, she asked her new boss, Christine Riordan, then the provost of the university, if a boyfriend came with the job. ” • “The bridegroom had never eaten a hamburger, a fact he delightedly recounted on their first date in between bites of   seitan and kohlrabi. ” 2. Last summer, Colin Nissan, writing in The New Yorker, projected a gruesome future for a bride who graduated summa cum laude and a groom who was just magna cum laude:  This disparity in achievement will be a recurring source of tension for the couple, first rearing its head during their honeymoon, in Belize, when the groom will take a little too long to calculate a tip and the bride will step in to “summa the situation”  —   a phrase the groom will coin in that moment and continue to employ for years to come, with diminishing amusement.  …      3. We even parodied ourselves in this 1993 article in The Times’s Metro section about the wedding of a fellow who has been in the news quite a bit lately. Georgia Dullea wrote: Marla Ann Maples, the daughter of Ann Ogletree and Stanley Maples, both of Dalton, Ga. was married last night at the Plaza Hotel to Donald John Trump, a son of Mary and Fred Trump of Jamaica Estates in Queens. The bridegroom’s previous marriage ended in divorce.   …     Dr. Arthur Caliandro of the Marble Collegiate Church performed the ceremony in the Grand Ballroom, on an altar decked with white orchids and white birches. Dripping from the birches were   teardrops. Other than that, as the writer Julie Baumgold remarked after the ceremony, “There wasn’t a wet eye in the place. ” The bride is taking her husband’s name. The bridegroom is keeping his name, The Donald, a legacy from his former wife, Ivana. Ivana Trump is keeping her cool on the ski slopes of Aspen. **** This article is part of the series “Committed: 165 Years of Love (and War) in The New York Times Wedding Announcements. ”