Dale Earnhardt Jr. found himself in the back seat of a black S. U. V. on the streets of Manhattan on Tuesday morning, a gracious passenger. He was glad someone else had to deal with the noisy taxis and the antsy drivers who used their horns as if they got paid by the honk. On Sunday afternoon, Earnhardt, 42, will begin his 18th full season at Nascar’s top level by driving in the Daytona 500,   racing’s premier race. But this, he said, will be a somewhat different Dale Earnhardt Jr. than has driven before. He was married on New Year’s Eve to his longtime girlfriend, Amy Reimann, and he is also returning from a serious concussion that sidelined him since July. “I do feel like this is a new chapter, for whatever reason,” Earnhardt said. “I don’t have a vision for what’s going to happen. I don’t know how to explain it, but it feels like a new me. ” It is believed that Earnhardt sustained the concussion  —   his second in four years  —   in an accident during a June race in Brooklyn, Mich. He drove in three more races, but then did not return to the track for the rest of the 2016 season, missing 18 races in all. Earnhardt was medically cleared to resume racing on Dec. 8. Earnhardt, the son of Dale Earnhardt Sr. the   Nascar champion who died at the 2001 Daytona 500, has won the series’ most popular driver award 14 straight times, largely because of his talent, bloodlines and demeanor, seemingly   and  . Success came at a cost, he said. “I feel like I am maybe a little less stressed out, a little less hassled, I guess, by    living now,” he said. “I guess I was wound up, wound pretty tight. I don’t know if it’s because I’ve been out of the car for so long that I’ve had this inadvertent vacation, I guess you could say, that it got my batteries really, really recharged. ” He stopped himself suddenly and added: “Only thing is, does it go away? Do I hang on to this feeling of ‘All right, man’? I know I’ll get competitive when I get in the car. It’ll be hard not to get short with my patience. That’s the biggest thing  —   just keeping patient. But I feel more calm and comfortable and not so wired up and strung out. ” Earnhardt has 26 victories in his   career at the top level of   racing, which is being called the Monster Energy Nascar Cup Series for the first time this year. But he has not won a series championship. Claiming one is certainly a driving force for him. But he has other priorities. He has a much deeper appreciation of the sport and its heritage than when he made his Nascar debut, in 1999, in a car owned by his father. He said he wanted the sport to be viable after he is done driving  —   though he has no idea when that will be. “I used to have an agenda: I wanted to do whatever made my car go faster,” he said. “I’m over that, knowing I’m on the back side of my career. When I’m done driving, I want the sport to be healthy. I’m done taking and taking. I’m ready to give, give. I try to think of what’s the best thing for the sport instead of the best thing for the driver. ” Acknowledging that Nascar has encountered a recent dip in racetrack attendance and television ratings, Earnhardt, like others, believes the sport would benefit from an influx of new, and young, fans. One way to draw attention and keep it, he said, might be to tweak the rules, as Nascar has done this year by awarding points to leaders after designated stages of races. The public’s accessibility to drivers was not what it was in his father’s heyday, but Earnhardt Jr. has made a hard push through Twitter and a podcast  —   the Dale Jr. Download  —   to keep people in the loop. It helped him recover from his injury. “To heal from the concussion, I needed to be   to get that stress as low as possible,” he said. “I worried a ton about people’s perception about what my problem was. I didn’t want any guesses out there. That’s the reason I was so transparent. I was worried about, Is it O. K. I’m this transparent? But I couldn’t think of any reason it could blow up in my face. The only thing that was bad about it, I guess, is that anytime anybody doesn’t agree with you, they hit you with, ‘You hit your head, so you don’t know what you’re talking about.’ ” He smiled. Although he has continued to emphasize that concussion symptoms can differ from one person to another, he knew his Twitter feed, podcast and news conferences could provide more information about concussions. He is fine with becoming a case study. “When I got my first concussion, in 1998, it was like, Wow. I feel dizzy, ha ha. I think I’ll go home and lay on the couch,” he said. “It was almost like I was braggadocios about it: ‘Man, I’m tough. I hit my head on the car.’ “It’s scary now, knowing everything we know. There’s still a ton to learn. We’re going through such a transition how we talk about concussions, how we treat concussions. It’s very interesting to me. Very educational. ” Just last week, Nascar announced an update to its concussion protocol. The protocol now requires doctors at every venue to use the same concussion test, expands when drivers must visit the infield care center after an accident and increases the use of   neurological consultants. After driving 600 to 800 laps after he was cleared medically, Earnhardt said he felt comfortable in a racecar now and was eager to see how he would do on Sunday. His career hung in the balance for a while last summer, so he is grateful for another chance to race. “When you’re young and naïve, you’re doing it for certain reasons, but when you get older and understand your life and what you want to be doing down the road, your priorities all change,” he said. “If it was not fun, I wouldn’t be doing it. I’ve done well with my finances. I don’t need to be racing for money. I don’t know what we get paid for each race. I don’t know what the winner gets for the Daytona 500  —   no idea. It’s just a great job. It’s better than any other job I can think of right now. ”