On Wednesday, President Trump rescinded protections for transgender students that had allowed them to use bathrooms according to their gender identity, an issue that has roiled recent political discourse. Earlier in the week, one vigilant reader pointed out language that he felt needlessly distinguished between biologically born women and transgender women. The line came in a column on the resistance discussions to Trump’s agenda that are taking place over dinners in private homes. The public editor’s take: The reader has a good point. I’m not sure this was a distinction worth making in the first place. Over the weekend and into Monday, letters came in referring to another topic at the forefront of the new White House’s agenda lately  —   illegal immigration. Several readers found headlines misleading in their descriptions of a new Trump proposal. The public editor’s take:  The head of the copy desk, Jill Taylor, agrees with the reader that “illegal” would have made for a clearer headline, though she pointed out that, for space reasons, the desk took a calculated risk that readers who’ve been paying at least a little attention would not equate “immigrants” with all immigrants. Two reactions from me. First, I sympathize, as always, with the dilemma of the copy editor trying to fit “undocumented immigrants” into a headline. But making the choice to lose the qualifier distorts the meaning. Headlines that refer only to “immigrants” makes it sound like a World War    . Deporting immigrants who are undocumented, and thus here illegally, is a much smaller subset of all immigrants, and aggressive deportation of this group has been pursued in past administrations too. Plus, with the occasional confusion that some White House directives are producing, clarity on what in fact is happening becomes all the more crucial. Readers also took issue this week with another headline, this one on a story about the sentencing of an Israeli soldier who killed an unconscious Palestinian attacker. Specifically, readers were upset that the print headline didn’t note the Palestinian had been the initial aggressor when he carried out a stabbing attack at an Israeli checkpoint in March before being killed. The print headline read: “Israeli Soldier Who Killed Wounded Palestinian Gets 18 Months. ” The digital headline, on the other hand, read: “Elor Azaria, Israeli Soldier Who Killed Wounded Assailant, Gets 18 Months in Prison. ” The public editor’s take: It can often be difficult to sort through the competing claims of biased reporting in coverage of the Middle East, with views so hardened on both sides and emotions running high. This headline, however, does seem to miss the mark by failing to signal a core element of the story.  Headlines were the hot topic of the week: Another one that stoked the anger of readers was on the home page, and pointed to a story about Milo Yiannopoulos’s fall. The headline read: “Star of the   Backs   Sex, and Is Shunned. ” We asked Michael Owen, editor of the news desk, for his view. The public editor’s take: I have in fact written about this issue before, including a headline on a story about a Montana judge who sentenced a man to two months in prison for raping his preteen daughter. The Times headline at one point referred to him as having sex with his daughter. In this case, I appreciate what the editors were thinking in addressing the headline  —   that they were trying to capture Yiannopoulos’s perspective. But the headline speaks from the voice of The Times, and, as written, it swaps the language of assault for the language of sex. Before Trump appointed Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster as his new national security adviser, The Times ran a story on a possible choice who turned down the job. The article concluded with a sentence about another contender for the post, the former general and director of the C. I. A. David Petraeus. The line stood out to several readers: “Mr. Petraeus resigned from the C. I. A. in 2012 after admitting that he had an extramarital affair. ” The public editor’s take: Here’s a case of applying a little too much haste in describing Petraeus’s checkered past. An editor I spoke with agreed. Obviously, in the case of the fallen general, it would have been more accurate to attribute his ouster to his mishandling of classified material.  Returning to our hot topic of the week, it may have taken the military backgrounds of the men in line for the national security adviser position  —   or simply rabid fandom of “Apocalypse Now” and its Wagner helicopter scene  —   to have spotted the issue with the following headline: “New Slopes in South Korea. ” The public editor’s take: I’m guessing not too many editors have served, though in this case it seemed obvious that the reference was to the ski slope picture above the headline.  Far away from Korea, in the Bensonhurst neighborhood of Brooklyn, Uzbeks of Korean descent run a restaurant that The Times recently reviewed. The review ran with a slide show, and one of the photos was removed after readers commented. We went to the editor of the review, Patrick Farrell, for an explanation. The public editor’s take: Seems like a reasonable approach and responsible outcome to me. Finally, one reader objected to a line in a piece on a Republican plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. We agree.