HOLBROOK, Ariz.  —   The teenage boys amble off the school bus like so many old souls, knees and backs stiff, eyes puffy and hollowed. The previous evening this Navajo basketball troop from Chinle High School had played a rollicking game against the Monument Valley Mustangs, on the northern edge of the Navajo Nation. The boys from Chinle went on a late run and won the game. Their trip back home took three hours, their school bus rolling through moonlit mountain passes and mesas, and plains. The boys fell into bed well past midnight. Then they woke up and boarded the bus again, this time riding two hours south for a Saturday afternoon game here in Holbrook, a high prairie crossroads. These Navajo teenagers are practitioners of “rez ball,” a       style of hoops. They deeply desire a state championship. They also are perched on that precarious cliff wall between adolescence and manhood, and that brings other questions and yearnings. The seniors study college catalogs and wonder if they should leave their starkly beautiful land of family and clans, a reservation that is bigger than West Virginia. Hope and fear jostle. Nachae Nez, a    shooting guard, a senior and a fine student, sits in the bleachers and talks of a future that feels as alive as a snake in his hands. He lives in a small town tucked against the red sandstone flanks of the Chuska Mountains. He dreams of attending a   college. “They say it’s hard for natives to leave the rez,” he says. “Your favorite place if you’re a Navajo, it’s your grandmother’s hogan,” he adds, using the Navajo word for a house built in a traditional and sacred style. He pauses. “I know I need to leave if I want to be of service to my people. ” He peers at me. “These choices are painful, right?” Cooper Burbank is the youngest Chinle player, a preternaturally calm and talented freshman who deals with his own dislocation. He grew up in the red mesa northlands and attended a    middle school of 108 students. His parents  —   his mom is a teacher and his father a custodian  —   wanted him to attend a bigger school, with more course offerings, to prepare for college. So they took a hard swallow and left grandmother and cousins and clans behind and moved to Chinle, where the high school has more than 1, 000 students and the family, Cooper and parents, are outsiders. Many weekends, the Burbanks travel back to their village. “I like to go home and clear my head,” Cooper says. He adds, softly: “My life needs challenges. I know that. ” Several months ago Raul Mendoza, 69, the widely admired coach of the Wildcats, invited me to watch him try to revive the Chinle team. Last season, before he took over, the Wildcats finished   this year, the Wildcats will finish  . My wife, Evelyn, and I lived in a trailer on the Navajo Nation years ago. She was a midwife and delivered babies. We wandered this land with our young sons, and Navajo sank its hook deep into us. The chance to return and explore the passions that drive this coach and his Navajo teenagers proved irresistible. After my trip in December, I wrote of Mendoza’s story. Half Mexican and half Tohono O’odham, a child who picked cotton in the   fields of Arizona, he is a lifelong wanderer. I’ve returned to explore the lives of his teenage players. Chinle sits 5, 500 feet above sea level, west of Canyon de Chelly, where in the 1860s the Navajo held out against Kit Carson and federal troops who had come to destroy their crops and burn their homes. Basketball is a passion here. Chinle has 4, 500 residents, and its high school arena, the Wildcat Den, seats 7, 000. Fans drive and hitchhike 50, 60, 80 miles to games. Coaches are regularly tossed aside after a single losing season. Most of the teenage players observe traditional beliefs: They bow to the four sacred mountain peaks of Navajo they carry corn pollen in case their path crosses that of the coyote, a notorious trickster they swallow a bitter herb before games to guard against envy, jealousy and witchcraft. One senior wears his unshorn hair in a woven pony tail. He will cut it at age 18 and present the locks to his grandfather. As they wander canyons, they listen for the voices of ancestors. Before each game, a girl sings the national anthem in Navajo. Harsh winds blow through as well. Some parents are racked by hunger for booze and disappear others lose jobs and are evicted. The median annual income in Chinle is $27, 000. In surrounding villages, it is half that. Marcus Litson, a    senior forward with a shaggy mane and easy smile, grew up in the same town as Nachae, who is the team captain. They roamed forests and climbed sandstone buttes. In his telling, his boyhood sounds like an idyll. He also lived four years on the distant New Mexico side of the reservation. Why? “My mom and dad split, and Mom won me in seventh grade,” he says. “When I got to 16, the court made me choose who to live with. ” Marcus missed his cousins and clans, and he chose to go back to Tsaile with his father. What did his mom say? “I haven’t heard from her in a year,” he says. He turns away and whispers, “I think she took it hard. ” Darrian Yeahquo, a   junior, wanders by. His father disappeared when he was a toddler, and his mother moved the family to Albuquerque. He found city high schools tough and scary. Last spring, his grandfather, a Vietnam veteran crippled by broken knees and lingering war shock, could no longer care for his ranch and asked for help. Darrian hopped the bus to Navajo. All summer long he and a favorite cousin rode horses and tended sheep and cattle. His grandmother made sandwiches for her teenage herders and tied their lunch to a gnarled pine tree. Darrian   himself in a dream. “If I have to leave the rez to go to college, to learn irrigation to help my family and people, I will,” he says. “This time I know I am coming back. ” Nachae and Cooper remain the team pillars. Nachae feels the urgency to win that comes with a senior’s sense of time fleeting Cooper is the team’s future. After practice, they remain in the darkened arena: Cooper shoots at one end of the court Nachae shoots at the other. Mendoza walks me out of the gym. “Natives, we’re not expected to be successful, and sometimes I worry that my kids feel that way,” he says. “There’s nothing wrong with not achieving your goal, but you have to fight. ” He nods at Nachae and Cooper. “Those boys are intelligent and fight hard. ” The Wildcats remain a team half formed and maddeningly inconsistent. Sometimes forwards toss up errant   and point guards tumble toward the hoop with no discernible plan. Mendoza enjoys a tortured relationship with rez ball. He appreciates that generations of natives grew up on this   style of play. At its best, it is artful and breathtaking. He prefers when his players settle into defensive crouches, or when they pass and pass until they find an open man. “Are we going to play rez ball or are we going to play this game the right way?” he told his teenagers. “It bothers me when you can’t see the open man. ” Before I arrived, the Wildcats scored an upset of Ganado, which had been the only undefeated team on the reservation. Then they ran Monument Valley’s team off the court. They swell with confidence in Holbrook. This gym, however, is freighted with history. Mendoza once was Holbrook’s coach. He won a championship here, and Arizona coach of the year honors, and his departure still upsets some fans. Nachae played here as a freshman, and he has former teammates and friends here, and that brings pressure, too. The Wildcats begin strongly. Nachae hits a jumper and tosses down a   and drives to the basket. Cooper wrestles rebounds and hits that soft dagger of a jumper. Just as suddenly, the tempo shifts: The Wildcats throw up   jumpers. Nachae misses layups and grows frustrated. The Wildcat players stop swinging the ball to Cooper, who remains reluctant to impose his will. The game gallops away, and the Wildcats lose,  . Mendoza does not hide his displeasure. You came in here laughing, he tells his team. Your play was embarrassing. Nachae pulls his jersey up over his face. Failure pierces deeply he wants to lead. He raises his hand and says, “We’re a really good team, but we have trouble connecting with each other. ” Cooper listens, his face opaque. On Sunday morning, a photographer and I drive north to Rock Point. We join Cooper and his family at a God’s Grace Fellowship church on a rutted dirt road two miles north of the general store. The congregation numbers a few dozen, the men wearing cowboy boots and hats, jeans and dress shirts, the women in dresses and Navajo turquoise jewelry. The Bible is written in Navajo. In a kind nod to their visitors, the female pastors translate the service into English. At the end, Cooper walks up to a pastor and holds his palms out. She grasps his hands, and they pray together for the strength to face down his challenges. Afterward, we drive with the Burbank family to a tiny   restaurant, the only joint for many miles. Cooper’s mother, Joni, explains that she and her husband became fast friends in elementary school they began dating in high school. Both of their fathers died because of drunken driving. “I came from a   home he was raised by his grandmother,” Joni says. “We were magnets attracting. ” Joni attended high school and college in Flagstaff. Her husband, Darrick, worked construction and rode rodeo bulls. One night they drove to San Francisco just to smell the salt air. They married, and when Cooper, the first of their four children, arrived they agreed: no drinking, an intact family. Darrick gave up good construction dollars in the boom towns of Las Vegas and Phoenix to work maintenance at the local school. “I had a hard time with that at first,” he says. “But I didn’t have a dad. My job is to give these kids a dad. ” Joni taught at the elementary school twice she had Cooper as her student. They joined a church and stayed close to cousins and elders. They are building a hogan atop a mesa with a Navajo name that they say is too long to translate into English. Change beckoned as Cooper reached eighth grade. Within the context of a   reservation of 175, 000 Navajo, Chinle is a bustling town. The Burbanks now live in an apartment there. “Cooper needed the challenge I needed professional growth,” Joni says. “I prayed and did a lot of searching. Then I said to myself: ‘Joni, Cooper, it’s time to push yourselves. ’” They bade goodbye to Joni’s mother, Virginia Tsosie, whose trailer sits 25 yards from their own in Rock Point, near the smooth folds of   cliffs. Tsosie misses them greatly. When Cooper arrives back each weekend he walks into Grandma’s trailer and flops on her couch, and she massages his legs and tells him stories. Talk of distant schools stirs trepidation in those of Tsosie’s generation. When she was very young, the Bureau of Indian Affairs sent her to an    boarding school. She went many months without seeing her parents. Tribal culture was treated as backward, a skin to be shed in pursuit of assimilation. When Tsosie spoke Navajo to a friend, a teacher washed out her mouth with soap. “I gagged,” she recalls. “Now I talk to my grandchildren in Navajo all the time. They know the survival words. ” The winter sun sinks toward the buttes. Cooper excuses himself, grabs a basketball and walks outside, followed by his younger brothers. He dribbles on the red dirt and shoots at a backboard with a hoop twisted like broken foot. Swish, and swish, and swish. We say goodbyes and drive south to the high country village of Tsaile, which in Navajo means water flowing into a canyon. Nachae, the team captain, meets us by the gas station. We clamber into his pickup truck and bounce up an icy and rutted track to his family’s trailer. He hops out and points to the trailers next door. That one is my grandma. And that one, too. And that one, that’s my auntie. His mom, Andrea Nez, comes to the door and smiles. “No secrets around here,” she says. Nachae attended three high schools in four years. After his freshman year in Holbrook, he spun to the hoop and tore up his knee. He had surgery and needed six months before he could walk unaided. That, he figured, was that for hoops. He enrolled in Navajo Prep, a private school in Farmington, N. M. where academics are king. “I figured books were my way out,” he says. A physical therapist helped him rebuild his knee. He played as a junior and led Prep in scoring. Then a flour plant laid off his mother, and the money dried up. He left Navajo Prep and returned to Tsaile, where he enrolled at Chinle for his senior year. Nachae’s Navajo name is Napi. He tells me it means Old Man in Navajo and in Blackfoot, which is his mother’s tribe. That means you are wise, I reply. He smiles, wistful, and points to the knee he ices after every game and his sore shoulder. “Maybe it just means I have an old body. ” Like so many Navajo, he occupies several worlds. As a child he danced powwow, shot bow and arrow and dreamed of following his father, Felix, who rode serious rodeo bulls. He sees a world alive with spirits. He also has fine grades, serves on the student council and has an auntie who graduated from Cornell as a guide star. He is aware of the world outside the reservation. He has eyes on New Mexico State and its agriculture program. Last summer, he traveled the Navajo Nation reservation helping with a wool buyback program, aimed at reinvigorating the sheep industry. “I want to get educated to help my people,” he says. He drops us by our car. Tsaile sits at 7, 100 feet, adrift in snow. The night sky is kaleidoscopic with stars. The next night the Wildcats drop a fierce game to Page. They are limping into the playoffs. As suddenly, the Wildcats kick into gear. Their playoff opener is against Holbrook, and their defense goes taut. Chinle wins by a basket. Next up is Blue Ridge High School, a powerhouse with a record of  . The Wildcats should be an afterthought. Nachae, in his final high school game, has perhaps his finest performance. He scores 28 points, a whirlwind. Cooper scores 12 and plays fierce defense. The Wildcats lose only in the final minute,  . Mendoza is   taciturn compliments fall sparing as bread crumbs from his mouth. “I told the kids that we were just a few possessions from advancing,” he says. “They finally learned to compete and battle. I’m very proud of our efforts. ” Now Nachae pivots. He must spend his days deciphering college dreams. Cooper must prepare himself for a new leadership role next year. As for me, I drive out of Navajo, past buttes and cliffs under a frozen dawn sky scraped clean of clouds. The sensation is of doors opening.