When the San Francisco Symphony canceled an upcoming pair of concerts in North Carolina to protest the state’s law curbing protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, it suddenly found itself with a hole in its calendar. It found a pointed way to fill it. Michael Tilson Thomas, the orchestra’s music director, is planning “Symphony Pride,” a gala concert to highlight the musical contributions of lesbian and gay composers, with the money it raises going to four nonprofit organizations that provide services for L. G. B. T. people. Given the contributions gay composers have made to American music, from the   to Broadway, Mr. Thomas said in an telephone interview that he was surprised to discover that the orchestra had not done a similar concert before. “It just seemed to me to be something that would have happened a number of times,” said Mr. Thomas, who is gay. “But as it turns out, no, as far as we know it hasn’t happened. ” The pride concert, which will be held on April 4 at Davies Symphony Hall in San Francisco, will feature music by composers including Lou Harrison, Henry Cowell, Meredith Monk and John Cage. Audra McDonald will perform a selection of songs by Leonard Bernstein, Stephen Sondheim and Kander and Ebb she will also narrate Aaron Copland’s “Lincoln Portrait. ” In December, the San Francisco Symphony canceled concerts it had planned to give on April 5 and 6 in Chapel Hill, N. C. joining a growing list of artists who have shunned the state, including Bruce Springsteen, Ringo Starr and the violinist Itzhak Perlman. The orchestra did so to protest a law, commonly known as House Bill 2, that nullified local ordinances establishing   protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, and required people in public buildings to use restrooms that correspond with the gender listed on their birth certificates. Gov. Roy Cooper of North Carolina, a Democrat who was elected in November, has been trying to persuade the   legislature to repeal the measure, which he has called a hindrance to attracting business to the state. “It’s the old story,” Mr. Thomas said. “Once people in society figure out a way of depriving this group of people of their rights, well, it’s very easy to go on and think of some other group they can deprive of their rights next. ” Most of the proceeds of the “Symphony Pride” concert will go to Larkin Street Youth Services, the Transgender Law Center, the National Center for Lesbian Rights, and the Trevor Project. Asked if the orchestra might host future pride concerts or galas, Mr. Thomas replied, “As my mother would have said, ‘From your lips to God’s ears. ’”