Ray Dalio, the billionaire founder of Bridgewater Associates, the world’s biggest hedge fund, is stepping down from its    operation as he continues to struggle to find a successor to run the firm, known for its unusual culture of “radical transparency. ” Mr. Dalio, 67, said on Wednesday that he was giving up the title of   executive and handing operational control to two longtime deputies who sit on the management committee of the $150 billion firm. He also announced the sudden departure of another   executive, Jon Rubinstein, a former senior executive at Apple who was once a deputy to Steve Jobs. Mr. Rubinstein, who joined Bridgewater 10 months ago, is the third   executive in recent years to leave the firm after spending less than a year on the job. Referring to Mr. Rubinstein’s departure, Mr. Dalio said they “mutually agree that he is not a cultural fit. ” Craig Mundie, a former   chairman who introduced Mr. Rubinstein to Bridgewater executives, resigned at the end of last year, said two people with direct knowledge of the firm who were not authorized to speak publicly. He and Mr. Rubinstein remain advisers to the firm. Mr. Dalio’s announcement is the latest sign of turmoil at the top of Bridgewater, which manages money for more than 300 pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and other institutional investors. Last year, Greg Jensen, one of Mr. Dalio’s longtime lieutenants, who was viewed as his heir apparent, was suddenly stripped of his role as   executive amid reports of a power struggle. Both men denied there was any rift, and Mr. Jensen remains at the firm as   investment officer. With the latest move, Mr. Dalio will not be going far  —   he will remain chairman and   investment officer  —   and it is not clear how much authority he will be willing to yield. Over the years, the firm has developed a corporate philosophy that resembles a cross between a religion and something of a cult. Mr. Dalio named David McCormick, the firm’s president, as   executive with Eileen Murray, who has been a longtime member of Mr. Dalio’s management committee. Some in the industry were encouraged by the announcement. “We are seeing a peaceful transition of power, usually a positive indicator,” said Putri Pascualy, managing director and credit strategist at Pacific Alternative Asset Management. “Nonetheless,” she added, “the real test is over the next few years, on whether the firm can outlast its founder. ” Bridgewater has had a frenzy of hires, departures and promotions in recent years, and several prominent executives have suddenly left the firm after short tenures. In 2010, Julian Mack, once a top executive at the consulting firm McKinsey, and Tony Murphy, a former top executive in the Americas for HSBC, left after less than six months on Bridgewater’s executive committee, according to an internal document seen by The New York Times. Other prominent hires were removed from the management committee not long after they joined the firm. A due diligence report for Bridgewater investors from the end of 2011 detailed how Joe Parsons, hired away from GE Capital in 2010, left Bridgewater’s management committee a year after joining the firm. Mr. Parsons left the hedge fund altogether in 2014. Something similar happened with James B. Comey, a former United States deputy attorney general, whom Mr. Dalio hired from Lockheed Martin in 2010 as general counsel. Mr. Comey left Bridgewater’s executive committee in 2011 and left the firm in early 2013. He was subsequently nominated by President Obama to become director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Turnover at Bridgewater is not confined to the management ranks. It is estimated that as many   of employees at Bridgewater leave within the first two years because they have difficulty with its unusual culture, which focuses on a book of philosophical underpinnings penned by Mr. Dalio called “Principles. ” Bridgewater, which employs about 1, 500 people, most at its secluded corporate campus in Westport, Conn. is widely known for videotaping all employee meetings and encouraging debates on many topics, even some as mundane as what kind of yogurt to stock in the employee dining area. Mr. Dalio has made no secret that life at his firm is not for everyone. “Some people absolutely hate it, and some people could never work anywhere else,” Mr. Dalio said at a hedge fund conference in Manhattan in September. The firm’s culture was the focus of articles in The Times and The Wall Street Journal last year. Mr. Dalio reacted angrily to the coverage, posting lengthy responses on LinkedIn and calling the articles sensational and misleading. Mr. Dalio was annoyed over the Times’s reporting last year on the firm’s handling of a sexual harassment complaint filed by a male employee against his supervisor. On Wednesday, he said he was posting details of the management   on LinkedIn because “our communications often find their way into the media in distorted ways. ” Most of the firm’s employment contracts contain stringent   noncompete clauses, and employees are required to sign nondisclosure agreements that often limit the ability of former employees to discuss their time at the firm. An email sent to Mr. Rubinstein seeking comment was answered by an email from a Bridgewater spokesman, who said, “Jon asked me to decline on his behalf. ” In his letter on LinkedIn, Mr. Dalio said the moves were part of Bridgewater’s   transition strategy in preparation for the day when he would step down. That strategy involved creating a management committee with multiple members in what it has called a “planful transition from a   boutique to a professionally managed institution. ” He added, “Any organization run by a 60+ year old that says that it isn’t in transition is either naïve or disingenuous. ” Bridgewater operates three main investment funds. Last year, its All Weather Fund II was up 12. 8 percent, its Optimal fund was up 7 percent, and its Pure Alpha II fund was up 2. 4 percent Mr. Dalio is well known for popularizing the kind of investment called risk parity, which seeks to protect clients from losses when stocks or bonds sell off. The strategy relies heavily on investing in bonds using leverage. The firm has written many white papers on the topic and posted them on its website. Mr. McCormick, the firm’s president, who was Treasury undersecretary for international affairs under President George W. Bush, was said to have been considered for several jobs in the Trump administration. He met with President Trump shortly after the election. Ms. Murray had a   with top executives that culminated in an investigation into an incident involving her and another employee and whether she had lied about her conversations with that employee. Interviews conducted in the investigation, which was led by Mr. Comey, were videotaped and widely seen by employees at the firm and came to be known as “Eileen Lies. ”