PARIS  —   France’s embattled   presidential candidate, François Fillon, defiantly vowed on Wednesday to stay in the race, even as he announced that he would be formally charged in a widening embezzlement investigation. Mr. Fillon’s announcement, made at a news conference, added another element of uncertainty to an already unsettled campaign and increased the likelihood that France’s presidential race would be fought by two candidates from neither of the traditional mainstream parties. With formal charges looming that Mr. Fillon paid his wife and children hundreds of thousands of euros from the public payroll for little or no work, most analysts consider his chances of making it past the first round on April 23 in France’s   election to be diminished. That would leave the field open to the   candidate of the National Front, Marine Le Pen, whose rise in polls has sent jitters through financial markets and immigrant suburbs. Her likely contender is Emmanuel Macron, the former economy minister, who is running as the candidate of his own political movement. Mr. Macron, 39, is currently the favorite to defeat Ms. Le Pen, 48, in the second round on May 7. But Mr. Macron, a former Rothschild banker, is untested and inexperienced politically. His centrist program, some of it in line with the Socialist government he served, is viewed as unappealing to parts of the   electorate. The momentum, in most of the polls, is with her. A top National Front official, Florian Philippot, used a television interview after Mr. Fillon’s appearance largely to attack Mr. Macron  —   a clear indication that Ms. Le Pen already considers him her principal opponent. Even as Mr. Fillon, 62, is increasingly being written off, he has doubled down on his defense, yielding no ground to his critics. “It’s Fillon’s final bet,” said Laurent Bouvet, a political scientist at the University of Versailles St.   . “He’s playing all or nothing. The right, the heart of the right, the one that elected him and doesn’t want Le Pen to sweep the stakes, his bet is they won’t abandon him, in spite of all his legal problems. ” In another country, the shadow hanging over Mr. Fillon would most likely end a campaign for the highest office. But in France, legal problems, even serious ones, rarely end political careers, even though the electorate appears to be showing  —   in polls, at least  —   less tolerance than previously for accommodating financial misdeeds in high places. Even if he were to step aside, his   Republican Party has few good options. Mr. Fillon’s two main challengers in the party primary both campaigned under the shadow of past and current investigations. The   in the primary, Alain Juppé, was convicted in a phony jobs scheme undertaken while he worked at City Hall several decades ago. Nicolas Sarkozy, the former president, who finished third, is the subject of multiple investigations, and in February, he was ordered to stand trial on charges of illegally financing his failed 2012 presidential campaign. But Mr. Fillon’s problems, immediate and future, are different. He campaigned as the candidate of probity. That image has been shattered. And the sums reported to have been pocketed by his wife have shocked the French. Ms. Le Pen is not untainted by corruption accusations. But her legal difficulties, for now, have hardly dented her standing in the polls  —   partly because she has never cultivated an image of virtue, and partly because her principal adversary is the European Parliament in Strasbourg, in which she sits and which is widely unpopular, especially among her supporters. Her legal troubles are also more complex than Mr. Fillon’s, and she is not suspected of having personally benefited from any of the alleged financial wrongdoing. Last week, a top Le Pen aide was charged in an alleged phony jobs scheme. The aide was paid out of Parliament money but was thought to have spent her time working for the National Front. Another close associate of Ms. Le Pen’s, Frédéric Chatillon, has been charged with violating campaign finance laws. Mr. Chatillon’s ties to extremist groups on the far right have been closely documented in the French news media as well. Ms. Le Pen, invoking her parliamentary immunity, has refused a summons from the police who want to question her in the alleged phony jobs scheme, eliciting harsh criticism from government officials who accuse her of holding herself above the law. Like Mr. Fillon, she could still be formally charged. She and Mr. Fillon have struck remarkably similar defenses as the accusations have piled up around them. Both blamed the news media as well as the judicial system and civil servants for their problems. On Sunday, in a fiery speech in the western city of Nantes, Ms. Le Pen lashed out at judges, the legal system, civil servants and the news media, in a manner very similar to Mr. Fillon’s on Wednesday  —   and for that matter, President Trump’s in the United States. Ms. Le Pen said all of them were working in concert to undermine her. “The rule of law is the opposite of government by judges,” Ms. Le Pen told her cheering supporters. “Judges exist to apply the law,” she said, “not to subvert the will of the people. ” On Wednesday, Mr. Fillon struck a defiant tone in front of the reporters at his campaign headquarters in Paris, proclaiming his innocence and denouncing what he said was an unfair judicial and news media campaign intended to destroy his candidacy. “I didn’t embezzle any money,” Mr. Fillon told reporters. “I employed  —   like almost a third of the members of Parliament  —   family members because I knew I could count on their loyalty and competence. They helped me, and I will prove it. ” “From the beginning,” he continued, “I haven’t been treated as an ordinary suspect. ” And he insisted: “The rule of law has been systematically violated. The press has been an echo chamber for the prejudices of the prosecutors. ” Mr. Fillon said angrily that the presidential election was being “assassinated,” and he announced his determination to stay in it, because “only the voters can decide who will be president. ” The judicial screws have been steadily tightening on Mr. Fillon since newspaper reports in January  —   especially those in the satirical weekly Le Canard Enchaîné  —   said that for years he and his deputy had paid his wife hundreds of thousands of euros in state funds for a possible   job, and that his children had also benefited from the largess of Mr. Fillon, a former prime minister. In addition, Mr. Fillon is being scrutinized on suspicion of trafficking a high civilian honor, while prime minister, in exchange for money to his wife from a wealthy publisher friend. On Wednesday, in front of dozens of aides and members of his   party, Mr. Fillon told reporters he would answer a March 15 summons by the magistrates in the case, after which he is expected to be charged formally. The investigation will continue and Mr. Fillon could then stand trial, or the magistrates could drop the charges. Circumstances look increasingly unfavorable for him. In an article published on Wednesday before Mr. Fillon’s news conference, the French newspaper Le Monde described him as a “candidate in a bunker” who was hunched up and in his shell. It noted that he no longer took the train for campaign trips out of fear of being called out by protesters. He is often met by protesters banging pots, or “casseroles” in French  —   a slang term for corruption affairs. Sometimes the placards read, “Fake jobs for everybody. ”