Disney CEO Bob Iger, one of the few entertainment industry executives asked to attend President Donald Trump’s policy forum at the White House this week, will not be attending the event. [UPDATE: A Disney representative emails to clarify that Iger was unable to attend the policy forum because the White House changed its date from Thursday, February 2nd, to Friday, February 3rd. A Disney Board of Directors meeting had been scheduled for the 3rd long before the forum’s organization. The email states that Iger is still a member of the forum’s committee.  In December, President Trump described the policy forum being held at the White House as a meeting of “CEOs and business leaders who know what it takes to create jobs and drive economic growth. ” The event was organised by Blackstone chairman Stephen A. Schwarzman and Bob Iger was considered one of the more high profile attendees, but a source has told The Hollywood Reporter that Iger will not be there. Many executives from large companies are still scheduled to attend such as SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon Musk, Uber CEO Travis Kalanick, JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, Walmart CEO Doug McMillon and General Motors CEO Mary Barra. Travis Kalanick of Uber has been attempting to calm recent anger from Uber users over what was perceived as the company’s refusal to participate in an hour long strike organised by New York taxi drivers to protest President Trump’s temporary travel halt. Kalanick stated that he was attending the economic policy meeting to have “a seat at the table” and added: “I understand that many people internally and externally may not agree with that decision, and that’s OK. It’s the magic of living in America that people are free to disagree. ” Kalanick has since chosen not to attend the meeting. Bob Iger has been a longtime Hillary Clinton supporter and contributed $400, 000 to Clinton and other Democrats in the past. Lucas Nolan is a reporter for Breitbart News covering issues of free speech and online censorship. Follow him on Twitter @LucasNolan_ or email him at lnolan@breitbart. com