TAMPA, Fla.  —   Clint Frazier’s hair is spectacular. It is red. It is curly. It is voluminous. It also seems to defy gravity as much as it defies any attempt by a batting helmet to contain it. If Frazier, a top outfield prospect for the Yankees, played for most any other team in baseball, his hair would be embraced in all its flaming glory. But with the Yankees, Frazier’s hair has brought unwelcome attention. In short, the Yankees do not do big hair (or beards) under a policy set years ago by George Steinbrenner and vigorously policed by his daughter Jennifer. Now there is a guessing game over whether the team will send Frazier to the barber before sending him to the plate. “I think people are making my hair bigger than my game,” Frazier said. “I’m here to play baseball. ” He said he was getting so irritated by persistent questions about his locks that he might just get them sheared off. When Frazier was acquired in July as the headline prospect in a trade with Cleveland for relief ace Andrew Miller, he immediately made a trip to a hairstylist, as the Yankees had requested, and posted photos on social media. Frazier also got a cut the day before the Super Bowl, after Steinbrenner, who inherited partial ownership of the team from her father, scolded him to take care of it. He trimmed his tresses again last week. His current hairstyle is shaved on the sides and leaves enough locks in the back to be pulled into a man bun, which is how Frazier often wears his hair when he is not on the field. Even under a cap it is   for a Yankee. “Is that kid’s hair naturally red, or does he dye it?” asked the Baltimore Orioles’ manager, Buck Showalter, an   former Yankees manager, who seemed more miffed at how long it took Frazier to get in the batter’s box during an exhibition game Thursday night. The matter of Frazier’s hair speaks to a deeper issue for the Yankees and baseball in general. Frazier, who could be a starter this season, is viewed as being central to the Yankees’ youth movement, and with his hair and provocative personality, he might offer a jolt of enthusiasm largely absent from Yankee Stadium these days. Attendance, television ratings and the fan following for the Yankees have been in steady decline in recent years, as the team has played only one playoff game since 2012. Magnetic performers like Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera and Alex Rodriguez have retired. Across town, the Mets stand in sharp relief: an ascendant World Series contender and increasingly popular on television, the team is built around a dynamic young pitching rotation. The Mets’ two headliners, Noah Syndergaard and Jacob deGrom, sport   hair that is decidedly    and both celebrated and mimicked by fans. The two teams  —   and their hirsute styling  —   may stand as proxies for the push and pull that baseball is going through, trying to speed up the game to lure young,   fans without alienating older,   ones. How to embrace tradition without being a slave to it? “It’s a balancing act,” said Allen Adamson, the founder of Brand Simple consulting. “The Yankees have to balance their respect and embrace of tradition with accepting what’s new. What’s new is, the individuality of players is important in making a sports event engaging and interesting. “ He continued, “Having everyone   and looking the same has a strong team dimension, but it makes the brand a little less interesting for fans. ” Added Edward O’Hara, the president of SME, a branding agency: “The Yankees have always stood for winning championships, success and traditions  —   no names on the jersey, no long hair. It’s never about the individual. My younger self says, ‘Why can’t they have long hair and beards? ’” Just where the Yankees draw the (hair) line is, of course, a bit fuzzy. Some elements of their policy are well known: Mustaches must not creep below the lip, and sideburns must be tightly curbed. But the general manager, Brian Cashman  —   who rarely meets a topic he won’t discuss  —   clammed up when he was asked how long the Yankees were allowed to wear their hair. He said the rules were read to the team at the start of spring training, but he would not spell them out because he did not want “somebody to call us on it every time there’s a rules violation. ” Jennifer Steinbrenner declined to comment. Some in the organization, though, wonder what will happen when the Washington Nationals’ star outfielder, Bryce Harper  —   with the beard and stylishly coiffed hair of a Brooklyn hipster  —   becomes a free agent after the 2018 season. Will the Yankees risk losing out on him over a haircut? Or will they relax their standards and face questions over giving him special treatment? The policy dates to the days when George Steinbrenner, a product of a military boarding school and a second lieutenant in the Air Force, was putting his imperious stamp on the franchise after buying the team in 1973. It was an era of long hair and beards, epitomized by the mustachioed Oakland Athletics, whose owner paid players $300 to grow mustaches and who won three straight World Series titles. Yet as the Yankees lined up along the   line for introductions on Opening Day in 1973, Steinbrenner pulled an envelope from his jacket pocket and jotted down the numbers of players whose hair was too long for his liking. He gave the list to the manager, Ralph Houk, and instructed him to tell the offending players to get their hair cut. Though Houk tossed the envelope in the trash, a lot of hair ultimately got cut, even if exceptions were made. “George was a disciplinarian, and there is a lot of discipline that goes into playing this game,” said Rich Gossage, the former Yankees reliever, who is baffled about why he was allowed to keep the bushy Fu Manchu mustache he grew in 1981. “He always thought we should act differently,” Gossage said. “I played for nine different teams, and I never played for anybody like Mr. Steinbrenner. ” While the Yankees were mired in a miserable season in 1991  —   and Steinbrenner was serving a suspension by Major League Baseball  —   a message was nevertheless delivered to Don Mattingly, the team’s star, when he arrived at the ballpark for an August game: Get a haircut or sit out the game. Mattingly, who refused to comply, was fined $250 by the team and benched. “You don’t know where it came from, but you know the rules of the boss,” said Stump Merrill, the manager who was in charge of disciplining Mattingly. “That was my mentality, and I’d do the same thing again. ” As Merrill stood watching batting practice recently, bemoaning how Steinbrenner would have insisted the bats lying on the grass be neatly stacked, he was asked what the Boss would have thought of Frazier’s hair. “Next question,” he said. Over the years, most players have abided by the   edict with little fuss, though as Showalter remembered it, a few might have complained of a   loss of mojo. Johnny Damon, a cult hero in Boston after leading the Red Sox to their first World Series title in 86 years, willingly shaved his beard and cut his hair when he arrived in 2005  —   a small concession, considering the   $52 million   contract the Yankees had lavished on him. The reliever Tommy Layne, who shaved his beard last season when he joined the Yankees, said the only hassle was finding 10 minutes to shave before day games. “The rule is the rule,” said third baseman Chase Headley, who grows a beard every winter and would prefer to keep one during the season. “If everyone else can fall into line, all the great ones that have played before me, then I’m fine with that. ” But perhaps the truest barometer of how the Yankees feel about the policy lies in what happens when they leave. When the playoffs began, Miller, who was sent to Cleveland in the trade that brought Frazier, resembled a cave man  —   with   hair and a shaggy beard. Brian McCann, Ivan Nova, Nathan Eovaldi, Dustin Ackley, Kirby Yates and Ben Gamel  —   all of whom left the Yankees last year  —   also seem to have barely picked up a razor since. All showed up with their new teams last month sporting facial hair that would have been prohibited by the Yankees. Gamel, who was told by Jennifer Steinbrenner to cut his hair last year, has let his   hair go, though he did not have to make quite the same sacrifice as Frazier. Frazier said the Axe men’s grooming products company and Big Red chewing gum had delivered their products to him in hopes that they might do business together once he reached the starting lineup. And Frazier reached out to Harper, long perceived to be a target of the Yankees, on Twitter over the winter offering hair care tips  —   when they are teammates with the Yankees. “He was just trying to poke the bear a little bit,” said pitcher J. P. Feyereisen, who was traded with Frazier to the Yankees. Frazier said it was all in good fun, which is how he would like people to view his hair. “It’s awesome that people take notice of what I’ve got growing on my head,” he said. “It is a part of me, it is unique and I like it. ” Still, Frazier promised to be on his best behavior and do more listening than talking during spring training. He said he had learned some lessons last season, putting too much pressure on himself after his trade to the Yankees, when he hit just . 228 at Class AAA   . Among the lessons to be learned is a simple one about playing in New York, especially for the Yankees. Your game had better keep pace with your mane. If not? Hair today, gone tomorrow.