President Obama spoke warmly about Islam during his speech at a mosque today, highlighting the contributions that Muslims had made to the fabric of American society.  “Islam has always been part of America,” he said, detailing the beginnings of the religion among African slaves brought to America. He also pointed out that Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Virginia statute for religious freedom that the “Mohammedan” should have his faith protected in the United States. Obama met with Muslim leaders during a visit to the Islamic Society of Baltimore, before delivering a speech there. This is Obama’s first visit to a mosque as president  —   although George W. Bush also visited a mosque in New York City after the attacks of  . During his speech, he praised the religion for being a religion of peace  —   not the hate preached by groups like ISIS. “The very word Islam comes from ‘Salam’  —   peace,” he said. “The standard greeting is ‘  ’  —   ‘Peace be upon you,’” he explained. “Like so many faiths, Islam is rooted in a commitment to compassion and mercy and justice and charity. “Whoever wants to enter paradise, the prophet Mohammad taught, let him treat people the way he would love to be treated,” he said as the audience applauded. “For Christians like myself, I’m assuming that sounds familiar,” he continued. Obama has frequently defended Muslim Americans  —   even meeting with leaders at private event at the White House last year. This is the biggest public display of support for the Muslim American community  —   cited by White House aides as a response to the   and   rhetoric on the campaign trail from Republicans like Donald Trump. Obama reminded the audience that political opponents of Thomas Jefferson accused him of being a Muslim. “So I was not the first,” he said lightly as the audience laughed. “It’s true. Look it up. I’m in good company. ” Obama pointed out that the founding fathers also supported the religion of Islam. “Jefferson and John Adams had their own copies of the Koran,” he said. “Benjamin Franklin wrote, that even if the Mufti of Constantinople were to send a missionary to preach to us, he would find a pulpit at his service. ” He also recalled the history of mosques in America  —   pointing out that the oldest surviving mosque was in Iowa and that the first American mosque was built in North Dakota. Obama also urged Christians to defend   when their religion was under attack. “If we’re serious about freedom of religion  —   and I’m speaking now to my fellow Christians, who remain the majority in this country  —   we have to understand, an attack on one faith is an attack on all our faiths,” he said. He demanded that Americans stop profiling Muslims and treating them differently because of their faith  —   criticizing political rhetoric for inflaming hatred against the Muslim community. “We have to reject a politics that seeks to manipulate prejudice or bias and targets people because of religion,” he said. He specifically addressed young Muslim Americans, urging them not to grow cynical. “Let me say it as clearly as I can, as President of the United States, you fit in here. Right here. You’re right where you belong. You’re part of America too,” he said. As Obama concluded his speech, he said, “May God’s peace be upon you and God Bless the United States of America. ” Obama was introduced by a young woman named Sabah: “This visit by our president is an affirmation to all Muslims: we are just as American as any other,” she said. ”I’m just as American and have the obligation to fulfill my loyalty to my country as any other.”  —  Sabah #MosqueVisit https:  .   —   The White House (@WhiteHouse) February 3, 2016,  OO. ready( function()  )