Ahmed Mohamed, the teen known as “Clock Boy,” may be back in Texas within days. After nine months of living in his new homeland, Qatar, he reportedly feels homesick. [Late Friday, the Dallas Morning News reported Mohamed plans to return to Texas early in the week for an extended visit. The teen’s uncle, Aldean Mohamed, said: “He miss[es] Texas, and he miss[es] Irving. ”  Breitbart Texas reported on Ahmed Mohamed’s earlier yearnings to return to the Lone Star State in December. The uncle also indicated his nephew will catch up with family in the Dallas suburb of Irving and has events lined up with some tech companies. The Dallas newspaper did not disclose any information with whom the teen will meet. Ahmed Mohamed was the    Irving Independent School District high school freshman detained last September for bringing to class a makeshift     which school officials and police initially believed was a “hoax bomb. ” No charges were filed once the situation sorted itself out, but the teen served three days of suspension before his family decided to withdraw him from the school district. A subsequent media firestorm ensued in which mainstream news outlets insisted “Islamophobia” was behind Mohamed’s detainment. Breitbart Texas maintained it was the result of rigid public school zero tolerance policies and a month later, the Associated Press agreed. Last October, Mohamed accepted a   education scholarship from the Qatar Foundation, an organization with reputed ties to the Muslim Brotherhood, over an invitation to the one of the world’s most prestigious private research universities, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). This year, MIT ranked #1 across twelve fields of study with other disciplines placing in the Top Five internationally. Fueled by the progressive narrative of victimization, Mohamed traveled to Google’s Northern California headquarters, toured the Qatari educational system he now attends, made a   pilgrimage to Mecca, rubbed shoulders with Sudanese Islamic autocrat Bashir, appeared in a Council on   Relations (CAIR) promo video with Executive Director Nihad Awad, a supporter of the Palestinian terrorist group Hamas, and attended CAIR’s 2015 “Champions for Justice” gala in Arlington, VA. Then, Mohamed visited the White House for Astronomy Night where he met President Obama alongside other invited students. Previously, the    tweeted the teen should bring his “cool clock” with him but that was not possible. The family did not retrieve it until late October despite the Irving Police Department’s requests for them to do so a month earlier. While in Washington, D. C. Uncle Aldean, Ahmed, and his father Mohamed Elhassen Mohamed rallied with   California U. S. Rep. Mike Honda, who pushed for a DOJ probe into the Irving school district and police department regarding the legality of the teen’s detainment. TIME Magazine listed Mohamed on their 30 Most Influential Teens of 2015 yet, by December, with the Christmas season shrouded by Islamic State attacks in Paris, State Department travel alerts, and Syrian refugees at U. S. borders, sympathy waned for the Islamophobia poster child. Breitbart News reported that the same liberal media that championed Mohamed’s every move, lost interest. According to the Dallas Morning News, Uncle Aldean Mohamed said the family still plans to sue the Irving ISD over Ahmed’s arrest. After they left for Qatar, the Mohamed family demanded a total of $15 million  —   $10 million from the City of Irving and $5 million from the school district  —   and threatened a lawsuit if they did not receive it. In a   letter to the Irving City Attorney and a similar   letter to Irving ISD’s attorney, the family claimed “Islamophobia” among their clock related incident allegations. However, home is where the heart is, the saying goes. Over the months that Mohamed has resided in Qatar, he shared what stands near and dear to him about the U. S. A. on social media  —   a tweet about NBA basketball star Kobe Bryant, a selfie with Bill Nye, the Science Guy, and a tribute to the late Muhammad Ali. Recently, the teen shared: “Sudan. My home. ” Sudan. My Home. ❤  —   Ahmed Mohamed (@IStandWithAhmed) May 11, 2016, Less than two weeks later, he expressed his gratitude to fans online: “You’ve supported me. Now support them. #FreePalestine. ” You’ve supported me. Now Support Them. #FreePalestine pic. twitter.   —   Ahmed Mohamed (@IStandWithAhmed) May 20, 2016, A week later, he tweeted:  “The beauties of Qatar. ” #VIEWS (via @shots) pic. twitter.   —   Ahmed Mohamed (@IStandWithAhmed) May 28, 2016, While the clockmeister claims to miss Texas, he only appears to reach out to the Lone Star State indirectly. He tweeted he signed a “stop Islamophobia” petition from the   MoveOn. org. It was addressed to Texas Governor Greg Abbott. Help Change the World. https:  .   —   Ahmed Mohamed (@IStandWithAhmed) May 16, 2016, Follow Merrill Hope, a member of the original Breitbart Texas team, on Twitter@OutOfTheBoxMom.