Glenn Beck described Donald Trump as mentally ill and dangerous —  on an individual and national scale —  in his social media reaction to Saturday’s Republican presidential debate in Greenville, South Carolina. [Beck, the nationally syndicated talk radio host and founder of TheBlaze cable network, live tweeted the debate, sharing a dozen messages. Eight of the twelve   Donald Trump’s performance and peaked with Beck speculating that Trump is physically dangerous. “I would worry about safety if I were alone ” he wrote.  Cbs opens with a moment of silence for justice Scalia. Donald is the only one with his head up and looking around. Respect.  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  Trump gets boo’d on attack on Jeb.   Is this what America is looking for in a President?  A boorish narcissist bully? #GOPdebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  If America doesn’t see what an unhinged bully Donald Trump is after tonight’s debate, there is no decency left. Now he mocks Barbara Bush.  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  Rubio ”how does Ted know what I said he doesn’t speak Spanish. All he does is make up lies.” Ted answers in Spanish. Who lies? #GOPDebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  Can trump allow anyone to respond without interrupting? #GOPDebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  Kasich is using the same peacemaker rhetoric as in every debate, but tonight it is working.  This debate is an embarrassment. #GOPDebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  this is an embarrassment. The debate in Iowa where the Game Show Host didn’t show wasn’t like this. I can’t let my kids watch this. #GOPDebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  ”I would work with congress” to punish companies that move to mexico.  No constitutional authority!! How??  Dictator. #GOPDebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  The hatred and anger inside of Trump is breath taking. He is truly frightening. I would worry about safety if I were alone  . #GOPDebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  Who would sit down and proudly tell their children ”these are the best of America.” Shameful. #GOPDebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  The closing statement of Ted Cruz tonight was the best I have ever seen him and to me after the death of Scalia is critical.   #GOPDebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  Can anyone give me specifics on how from DJT? I know the problems.  I heard: huge, wonderful, win, and polls.  How don, how? #GOPDebate,  —   Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) February 14, 2016,  Later, Beck took to his Facebook account and said “the psychiatric community” needs to diagnose Trump, for if he were elected President, the United States would surely fall into a civil war. Tonight’s debate is the most uncomfortable, angry,   2 hours I have ever experienced. Is anyone else shaken by this? I found it seriously and deeply disturbing. The psychiatric community needs to step up and address what we are witnessing. This man is a narcissistic psychopath. That is NOT name calling, that is a search for a diagnosis. If he is not then he is merely a game show host that is trying to get ratings. If that is true, that, in and of itself, is a sign of a deep disturbance. It is not a presidential debate. It is a combination of WWE, a cheap game show and the worst of Jerry Springer. I believe, if this is not the eye opening moment for America on who Donald Trump is at the core, this country is surely lost. Four years of this bully will lead to civil war or worst. The poison that is being injected into our body couldn’t be more toxic. Because I know God is just, tonight, I tremble for my country. Those with influence that do not speak out now, will pay a heavy price when liberty is lost and evil grows. On his own Twitter account, Trump taunted Beck by pointing out the unscientific online poll on Beck’s own TheBlaze showed the billionaire beating Ted Cruz, whom Beck has endorsed and campaigned for. Hey @glennbeck —   see how I beat your boy   in your own Blaze poll? Your endorsement means nothing! #GOPDebate,  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 14, 2016, 