Citing GOP frontrunner Donald Trump’s long history of supporting “ ” Democrats, Rafael Cruz, father of Ted Cruz, told Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon that as president Donald Trump “would be worse than Hillary Clinton, but he cannot beat Hillary Clinton. ”[“We’ve got to realize, Donald Trump is more of a Democrat than a Republican,” Cruz said. “He has been funding Democrats like Chuck Schumer, like Harry Reid, like Anthony Weiner, like de Blasio and many others. For forty years he has been supporting all these   politicians. He would be worse than Hillary Clinton, but he cannot beat Hillary Clinton. ”  “It’s very simple. All they have to do is look at the polls,” he said in response to those who think Trump might be a stronger candidate against Hillary Clinton. “Poll after poll after poll after poll after poll shows that if Donald Trump is the Republican nominee, he loses to Hillary Clinton by double digits. Donald Trump cannot beat Hillary Clinton. That would be the dream ticket for Hillary Clinton because all the polls show that Donald Trump would lose and would lose by a landslide. ” As for the convention and the GOP nomination, Cruz predicted his son will win on a second of third ballot once delegates sent by voters to Cleveland deserted Trump. “I think that this is going to go to the convention. And if Donald Trump does not get 1, 237  —   and I don’t believe he will  —   he will lose at the convention. I believe that my son will get the nomination, if not by the second ballot, maybe by the third ballot. ” “As we get into the convention and delegates are released, we’ll see Sen. Cruz’s support increase more and more. And I am convinced that he will get the nomination,” he continued. He also went on to make the general case for his son versus “dealmaker” Donald Trump at length. “Liberalism is not the answer and neither is Donald Trump. We need to realize that we are in the problems we are today because of all these corrupt politicians. We don’t really need a deal maker. We are where we are in America today because of all the corrupt deals that have been made behind closed doors at the expense of the American people. And Donald Trump represents the other spectrum of that. Donald Trump is the one, or one of the ones that have been funding all these corrupt politicians. He is the other end of the corruption. He is the ultimate crony capitalist,” he said. “We don’t need a deal maker. We don’t need a bully. We don’t need another imperial president like we have today. We need a statesman. We need someone that will take America back to the Constitution, to the rule of law, to limited government,” he said. “We need, more than anything else, we need a servant of ‘we the people. ’” “If there’s one thing Sen. Cruz understands, it’s servant leadership. He understands that he would go to the White House to be a servant to every American,” he added. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6 AM to 9 AM EST. Listen to the full interview below: 