The Ole Miss College Democrats and a social justice organization are asking the Student Senate to pass a resolution that would transform the campus into a “sanctuary campus” in order for illegal immigrants to escape deportation. [President of the University of Mississippi (UM) College Democrats Adam Flaherty and Dominique Scott, president of Students Against Social Injustice, are pushing the resolution that would bar campus police from cooperating with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) as well as Customs and Border Protection (CBP).  “The UM campus leadership ought to immediately begin the process of making our campus a formal sanctuary for undocumented immigrants, their families and related community members,” the resolution obtained by Breitbart Texas reads. “UM ought to refuse all voluntary information sharing with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) across all aspects of the university to the fullest extent possible under the law,” the resolution continues. The resolution demands a hostile exclusion for the university from federal law which would allow Ole Miss to “refuse” ICE and federal immigration officials the ability to even step foot on the public campus. Under the resolution, the use of   would be banned while the creation of a specific university office for illegal immigrant students would be established. “UM ought to support undocumented and DACA students’ equal access to   tuition, financial aid and scholarships and support the ability of qualified immigrant students to enroll and sustain their attendance,” the resolution reads. “Including by doing everything within its power to use institutional funds and scholarships to fill any gap created by discriminatory laws that exclude immigrant students from paying the   rate or accessing ordinary financial aid and scholarships on equal footing with other students,” the resolution states. Sanctuary campus policies are proliferating at universities across the country in response to   Donald Trump’s immigration proposals. Trump’s plan promises to ban sanctuary cities build a wall along the southern border and enforce  . Students at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee are demanding similar sanctuary campus policies, asking that the intuition ban cooperation with federal immigration officials, Breitbart Texas reported. John Binder is a contributor for Breitbart Texas. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder. Resolution 16 08. Docx by BreitbartTexas on Scribd, 