Following the terrorist attack at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, there has been a lot of discussion about the LGBT community and radical Islam. Unfortunately, it’s a conversation that’s only happening on the right, as Democrats are still talking about banning guns. [When will they go to the Middle East and have a   against tall buildings? Surely that will end their practice of executing gay men! We shall overcome! (As long as there’s air conditioning and we’re not in any danger ourselves.)  When I was the Director of CPAC, I introduced Donald Trump when he first spoke at the conference in 2011. When Trump spoke it was already a controversial conference because GOProud, a now defunct organization for gay conservatives and their allies, was allowed to be one of over 150 participating organizations. There were calls for boycotts (mostly by groups that had never sponsored CPAC) and a few speakers who decided to decline their invitation because of GOProud’s inclusion. Not only did Trump come to a conference that many in the mainstream media consider to be part of a “fringe” movement, but he came at the invitation of GOProud. That year Andrew Breitbart also showed his support for GOProud and their inclusion at CPAC by cohosting their   party. Despite the many reasons Trump could have declined an invite from a group of gay conservatives, he came, and he stood with thousands of conservatives and proclaimed, “These are my people. ” This statement is one key reason why the LGBT community should support Trump. Also, despite what the media will tell you, many, indeed, do. Everyone knows Milo, but let me tell you about the OG in gay conservative circles. GOProud cofounder Chris Barron is speaking out in support of Trump in the general election and making the case for why he is a better choice than Hillary Clinton. He started LGBTrump. As a political player and commentator in Washington, D. C. for years Barron and other gay conservatives have been told to hold their nose and vote. They attended CPAC, attended Republican National Conventions, and helped get out the vote in states across the country despite the national party not acknowledging them publicly. For years Barron and others have been good soldiers. This is one of the reasons Barron has no love for the “Never Trump” crowd. Without their   candidate, they don’t want to play the role of the good soldier that we’ve been playing for years. As their dream candidates declined, Barron said, “I described #NeverTrump as a King without an army. Now it appears they have no King either. ” On CNN. com, Barron made the case for why the LGBT community should support Trump. He wrote: This act of war was perpetrated by an adherent to radical Islam  —   an ideology that seeks the extermination of LGBT people worldwide. For LGBT people in this country, the stakes could not be any higher  —   or any more personal. For LGBT Americans, this election won’t be about bathrooms or who will bake our wedding cakes. No, this election will be about which of the candidates for President is willing to stand up and fight to defend our very right to life itself. For the first time, this isn’t just a surrogate interpreting a Republican candidate’s policy as   or   (i. e.  ) while the candidate himself uses the same old talking points. On Wednesday, Trump gave a fantastic speech highlighting Hillary Clinton’s hypocrisy and her embrace of radical regimes. Trump said: The father of the Orlando shooter was a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan, one of the most repressive   and   regimes on Earth. I only want to admit people who share our values and love our people. Hillary Clinton wants to bring in people who believe women should be enslaved and gays put to death. Maybe her motivation lies among the more than 1, 000 foreign donations Hillary failed to disclose while at the State Department. Trump’s speech will go down in history as the end of the Democrat’s   monopoly on the LGBT and women’s vote.