Law enforcement sources have identified the gunman in the Orlando terror attack as Omar Mateen, the child of Afghan migrants, according to CBS News. [Between 2001 and 2013, the U. S. permanently resettled nearly 30, 000 Afghan migrants on green cards. According to Pew, nearly all Muslims in Afghanistan (99%) support sharia law as official law.  As legal immigrants, these migrants will be granted lifetime resettlement privileges will be given automatic work permits, welfare access, and the ability to become voting citizens. Between 2001 and 2013, the United States permanently resettled 1. 5 million Muslim immigrants throughout the United States. In the next five years, without changes to our autopilot visa dispensations, the U. S. will permanently resettle a Muslim population larger than the entire population of Washington D. C. Immigration from the Middle East is on the rise. Based on 2014 data —  the most recent available data from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) —   the number of green cards issued to Middle Eastern countries increased by 32 percent. The number of green cards issued to Afghan migrants increased by 379 percent in the course of that single year. Hillary Clinton has made clear that under a Clinton Presidency, these numbers will grow substantially higher. Based on the minimum numbers Clinton has put forth thus far, the U. S. will resettle 730, 000 permanent migrants from the Muslim world during her first term alone. According to NBC, the suspect’s family says the terror attack may have been motivated Mateen’s hatred for the LGBT community. Mateen’s father says his son was angry over the sight of two men kissing. At his Friday speech at the Faith and Freedom Summit, Donald Trump addressed Clinton’s plan to import migrants that hold beliefs that are antithetical to Western liberal values. “Hillary will bring hundreds of thousands of refugees, many of whom have hostile beliefs about people of different faiths and values, and some of whom absolutely and openly support terrorism in our country. We don’t need that. We have enough problems. ” The latest terror attack, carried out by the son of Afghan migrants, underscores how   migration creates a   threat matrix, just as it has in the banlieues of France. For instance, Anwar   the New   jihad propagandist and “spiritual advisor” to   terrorists was the son of migrants from Yemen Syed Farook, the   San Bernardino terrorist was the son of Pakistani migrants Nidal Hasan, the Fort Hood shooter was the son of a woman who emigrated from Palestine and Muhammed Youssef Abdulazees, the Chattanooga shooter who murdered four U. S. Marines was an immigrant from Kuwait, who naturalized at the age of 6. In a December letter to the Obama administration demanding the release of the immigration histories of those connected to terrorism, Senator Jeff Sessions wrote: “We are dealing with an enemy that has shown it is not only capable of bypassing U. S. screening but of recruiting and radicalizing Muslim migrants after their entry to the United States. The recruitment of terrorists in the U. S. is not limited to adult migrants, but to their young children and to their U. S.  children  —   which is why family immigration history is necessary to understand the nature of the threat. ” “It’s an unpleasant but unavoidable fact that bringing in large unassimilated flows of migrants from the Muslim world creates the conditions possible for radicalization and extremism to take hold, just like they’re seeing in Europe,” Sessions said on the Senate floor. The Tampa Tribune reported last year that Florida now leads the nation as the number one state in resettling refugees. According to the federal government, Florida resettled 43, 184 refugees in 2013. While most of these refugees settling in Florida arrive from Cuba, many arrive from Middle Eastern countries. According to the U. S. Office of Refugee Resettlement, the next largest countries to resettle in Florida are (in order) Iraq, Myanmar (Burma) the Democratic Republic of Congo, Sudan, Somalia, Colombia, Afghanistan, Jordan, Pakistan, Syria, and Palestine. According to data from the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) in the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services, 91. 4 percent of recent refugees from the Middle East are on food stamps and 68. 3 percent of recent refugees from the Middle East are on cash welfare. The Tampa Tribune reported that many of these Muslim refugees are carving out their own Muslim communities within Florida (similar to what refugees have done in Dearborn and Minneapolis): “Many of the refugees finding homes in the Tampa Bay area are Muslim because the region has an established Muslim community.