Legendary Hollywood badass Chuck Norris used his latest   to encourage “  citizens” to rally behind Donald Trump so that America can avoid “the monumental consequences of another Clinton presidency. ”[“If reluctant Republicans and other   citizens don’t rally now behind GOP nominee Donald Trump, we could elect Hillary by default, or by those who merely stay at home on Election Day,” Norris wrote in his column published Sunday.  Norris explained the “ancient history” of how he supported   presidential candidate Mike Huckabee, who he believed could have beaten Obama in 2008 and 2012. The martial arts superstar said that he supported Huckabee’s failed presidential run in 2016 and “decided to wait until the people chose the candidate they wanted as their next president. ” Norris says he met Trump once, 42 year ago during his retirement event as the World Marital Arts Champion. “That was it. I haven’t seen or spoken to him since. However, I will tell you, I liked him. He was very friendly and sincere,” the Expendables star wrote. “I truly believe that the people who have a negative view of Trump will be pleasantly surprised when he becomes the leader of our country,” Norris continued. “I also believe he will make positive changes that will benefit the people who need it most. ” The    action star believes that the “type of family passion and values” that Trump’s children have for him could not exist “without the family’s members knowing Trump is the real deal. ” “Once Trump occupies the White House, ‘The People’s House’   …     he will stand up for us  —   all of us. As he said at the convention, ‘I am your voice,’” Norris wrote. Norris then quoted Benjamin Franklin’s famous line: “We must all hang together, or most assuredly we will all hang separately,” and argued that Americans must now unite behind Trump or risk devastating political loses. “If Republicans cannot come together as a unified body, then we most assuredly will lose the presidential election, and, consequently, lose many congressional and Senate seats,” he wrote. “The Democrats will then dominate Congress, as well as the presidency, for God only knows how long. And most grievous of all, justice seats on the U. S. Supreme Court will be filled by Hillary’s nominees, and their next decade of decisions will certainly dismantle or destroy what is left of our republic. Norris continued: “There is no doubt about it: A ‘no’ vote for Trump is a vote for Hillary. Any way you boil it down, that’s the end result. ” Norris concluded by asking “every Republican  —   whether establishment, moderate, liberal or conservative” and “independents and Reagan Democrats join us as well to help “Make America Great Again. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson