Illegal immigrants, mostly from Central America, are flooding across Texas’ southern border ahead of the 2016 General Election. Border Patrol agents are seeing numbers of illegal immigrants at or above the historic 2014 levels. [“Cartel connected human smugglers are telling people they need to get across the border now,” U. S. Border Patrol Agent Chris Cabrera told Breitbart Texas in his capacity as president of National Border Patrol Council Local 3307. “When our agents ask the illegal immigrants who have surrendered at the border, they tell us they have been told they have to be here by a certain deadline to qualify for amnesty from Hillary Clinton, or they must come now because Donald Trump will build a wall and they won’t be able to cross. ”  Breitbart Texas reported one week ago that the numbers of family units and unaccompanied minors crossing the border from Mexico is up dramatically in FY 2016. The apprehension of Family Units increased by 95 percent over FY 2015 numbers to 77, 674 according to a report from U. S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). The number of Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC) crossing the border hit a near record total of 59, 692. More disturbingly, the numbers were dramatically increasing in the three months leading up to the election. The numbers of Family Unit apprehensions showed a constant increase from March through the fiscal year end of September. They rose each month from a low of 3, 050 Family Units in February to nearly 10, 000 in September, the report states. The numbers of UACs showed similar increases from 3, 092 in February to 5, 699 in September. “The smugglers learned in 2014 that they could tie up Border Patrol agents as babysitters and keep us from our primary mission of stopping illegal border crossings and drug smuggling,” Cabrerra told Breitbart Texas. “When are we going to get back on the border?” Cabrerra said the smugglers took the lessons they learned in 2014 and are now using the election as a means to flood people across the border in all of the sectors of the Mexican border. “In 2014, it was primarily the Rio Grande Valley Sector that saw the massive numbers of families and children,” Cabrera explained. “Now we are seeing increases in every sector —  some as high as 200 percent. ” Agent Cabrera said the vast majority of those crossing the border now are what the Border Patrol refers to as OTMs (Other Than Mexican). “Seventy to 75 percent are OTMs now,” he explained. “We are also seeing increases in the numbers of Special Interest Aliens (SIA). Those are people coming from countries like China, India, Haitians, and Middle Eastern countries. ” CBP reports that of the 218, 111 OTM apprehensions along the Mexican border, 140, 496 occurred in the Texas Rio Grande Valley Sector. The UAC apprehensions consisted of minors from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico. Breitbart Texas reported a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) report showing an over 600 percent increase in Haitian immigrants who are flooding into southern California seeking refugee status. Because of this increase, DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson reinstated the process of removing certain Haitian immigrants. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.