The American victims who have lost their children to illegal alien crime denounced Sen. Ted Cruz’s “voterless victory” in Colorado. [The victims who endorsed Donald Trump said that they were appalled by the state GOP’s attempt to “silence” the American people. “The arrangement in Colorado is a sham. I can’t really call it an election. Ted Cruz is not for Americans,” said Cruz constituent Laura Wilkerson. “He is as bought and paid for as Hillary Clinton. ”  “This needs to be a wake up call for Americans,” said Texas resident Dan Golvach. “We have been sleep walking into a third world tyranny with the two main parties. This also shows you who Ted Cruz has crawled into bed with politically speaking  …     He’s nothing more than a poster boy for the plutocrats. I have no use for him or the plutocrat media complex that has been pushing these type of candidates on us. ” Dan Golvach and Laura Wilkerson are both Cruz constituents. While Cruz was in the U. S. Senate, an illegal alien randomly chose    Spencer Golvach’s “head as target practice” —   shooting and murdering Spencer. On his way home from school six years ago,    Joshua Wilkerson was tied up, beaten, strangled, set on fire, and tortured to death by his illegal alien classmate. Laura Wilkerson said, “After meeting him [Sen. Cruz] and testifying in front of him, in July last of year, [we heard] nothing. Not once has he reached out to a Texas American family that has lost a loved one from an illegal alien hands. I have seen the Ted Cruz that I met completely change his position on immigration. Right now he is as bought and paid for as Hillary Clinton. People should be outraged that the kids from Colorado who are fighting for America can’t even vote for the leader of America. It’s not right. ” Dan Golvach similarly said, “Ted Cruz as a Texas senator has never reached out to [our] family that had suffered the loss of a loved one at the hands of an illegal alien. We in the Remembrance Project have reached out to him numerous times, but he was too busy falling all over himself to get as many   foreign workers in here as he could to help keep wages down for his donor puppet masters. ” “It’s apparent the elections are no longer about what the American citizens want. Big money and the establishment are going to great lengths to silence us,” Mary Ann Mendoza said about Colorado’s voterless election. Mendoza’s son Sgt. Brandon Mendoza was murdered by a drunk illegal alien who had been driving the wrong way down a freeway. The illegal alien’s blood alcohol level was three times the legal limit at the time of the crash. “Cruz should call for an election in Colorado  …     We are becoming like a third world country with all of this government corruption,” said Billy Inman. “There ought to be an election and everyone ought to be able vote in it. Trump has the backing of the American working people. If these GOP politicians worked as hard on improving America for Americans as they are working to get rid of Donald Trump, America would still be a great nation. ” Inman’s    son Dustin was murdered while he and his family were on their way to celebrate an early Father’s Day family fishing trip. An illegal alien rear ended their family’s vehicle at over 60 mph. Dustin’s parents, Billy and Cathy, were both knocked unconscious. They were unable to attend their son’s funeral because they were in   comas for weeks after their son’s death. “They don’t listen to us. They just do not listen to us. It’s too much corruption. I truly believe that. There’s too much money involved and too much corruption. They are trying to silence us, ” Inman said of Cruz’s voterless win. “Trump is the only one who can give us a voice. I’ve been talking about this problem [i. e. immigration] for 16 years and he’s the only one whose done anything about it. ” Cathy Inman, who is now permanently confined to a wheelchair due to spinal injuries she sustained from the crash that killed her only child, told Breitbart: “I feel like nobody cares. It’s hard. I’m in pain   and the officials do not care. ” At the Colorado state convention on Saturday, the Trump campaign read aloud letters written by the victims to a stadium full of mostly Cruz delegates before they selected their national slate.