On Monday’s broadcast of MSNBC’s “Andrea Mitchell Reports,” Clinton campaign Press Secretary Brian Fallon stated that “in the next couple days, we’re going to be releasing additional medical information about Hillary Clinton. ” He further stated, “I can attest, Andrea, that it really is the case that there’s no other undisclosed condition. The pneumonia is the extent of it. And I can also attest that her doctor has stated that there was nothing here in terms of anything that was caused by what happened in 2012. ”  Fallon was asked if the campaign would let Clinton’s physician speak to the public. He responded, “[W]e’ve been in touch with her this morning, and it is our intention that, in the next couple days, we’re going to be releasing additional medical information about Hillary Clinton. A year ago  —   over a year ago now, we released a  —   an extensive letter with a comprehensive medical history, family medical history, and state, picture of her health that completely adheres to the norm for presidential candidates, and far exceeds what Donald Trump has released, but we’re going to go beyond that. And in the next few days, we’ve been in touch with her physician this morning to get those materials together. We’re going to be releasing that to further put to rest any lingering concerns about what you saw yesterday. I can attest, Andrea, that it really is the case that there’s no other undisclosed condition. The pneumonia is the extent of it. And I can also attest that her doctor has stated that there was nothing here in terms of anything that was caused by what happened in 2012. So, all of that, I think, will be indicated in the further material that we are going to release later this week. ” He added that, “there’s more information out there about Hillary Clinton than any nominee in modern presidential history, and at some point, I think that the conversation should appropriately move to not just dwelling on what further things Hillary Clinton can release, but when Donald Trump is going to adhere to the bare minimum of releasing things that every presidential nominee in history has adhered to. Fallon further said, in response to a second question on whether Clinton’s physician would be allowed to additional interviews, that the campaign would release the additional health information and then “take it from there. ” He continued, “the reality is, that she’s already released more than is appropriate. We’re going to go even further, and in the next couple days, to the extent that people have questions even after that additional information is released, we want to answer those, too. ” Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett