Lena Dunham has shed her clothes to celebrate the   movement  —   again. [The    Girls star posted a photo to her Instagram page Thursday night showing herself and her     Jemima Kirke naked in a bathtub together, with Dunham throwing a hand over Kirke’s bulging belly.  Dunham wrote that the photo was taken in summer 2012, and captioned it with a message in support of the   movement.  Throwback to summer 2012 on the set of Girls, when Jemima was pregnant with her second child. What’s so beautiful to me about this photo right now is   I got to watch my friend since childhood CHOOSE to become a mother. She had the personal and emotional resources to support that choice. She didn’t have her hand forced by lawmakers who would never understand her reality or respect her humanity. Sending love and strength to every woman around the world who is being denied that choice. We won’t stop fighting for you. A photo posted by Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) on May 19, 2016 at 8:20pm PDT,  “What’s so beautiful to me about this photo right now is choice  —   I got to watch my friend since childhood CHOOSE to become a mother,” Dunham wrote. “She had the personal and emotional resources to support that choice. She didn’t have her hand forced by lawmakers who would never understand her reality or respect her humanity. ” “Sending love and strength to every woman around the world who is being denied that choice,” the actress added. “We won’t stop fighting for you. ” Dunham  —   an outspoken supporter of Planned Parenthood and Democrat presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton  —   has stripped down in support of abortion in the past. In September 2014, the actress sent supporters a photo of herself wrapped in a towel with contraception pills in her mouth, along with a lengthy note blasting Republican lawmakers like Thom Tillis and Joni Ernst. The following year, Dunham literally gave up the shirt off of her back to be auctioned at an event benefitting Planned Parenthood. The actress’   sweater fetched $4, 000. Dunham is hardly shy about nudity. She’s appeared nude countless times on her HBO program Girls, which will air its final season next year, and told the Hollywood Reporter last year that she often walked around nude on set. “There’s not one guy who works on that show who hasn’t seen the inside of my vagina,” Dunham told THR last May. In 2013, Dunham told Marie Claire magazine that her frequent nudity is an “essentially important” component in her “contribution to the world. ”   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  