A new   poll released Wednesday shows that a plurality of registered voters rejects the Iran deal  —   and that nearly three out of five expect the Iranian regime to cheat on the agreement. [Among registered voters, 39% strongly oppose the Iran deal, and only 23% strongly approve of it. When those who only “somewhat” oppose or approve of the Iran deal are included, 46% of registered voters oppose the deal, while 42% approve of it. Another 12% said they do not know.  Regardless of their views of the deal itself, 60% of registered voters expect Iran to cheat on the deal. Only 14% said that Iran will not cheat, while 26% said they were unsure. The deal requires Iran to slow its nuclear enrichment activities for several years, in exchange for relief from international sanctions. Critics say  —   and President Barack Obama has admitted  —   that even if Iran keeps the deal, it will still be able to produce nuclear weapons after a decade or so. Iran also claims that the deal allows it to continue developing   ballistic missiles, which the Obama administration had promised it would not. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton claims credit for the initial negotiations that led to the deal. Vice presidential nominee Tim Kaine erroneously claimed in Tuesday night’s debate that the Iran deal had “eliminated” the regime’s nuclear program, when in fact the Iran deal merely slowed it, at best. Voters who expect Iran to cheat on the deal would probably not be surprised to learn that it has already done so  —   but might be surprised to know that the Obama administration allowed Iran to be out of compliance with the deal’s terms at the outset. Just as Colombian voters rejected a “peace” deal earlier this week, American voters would likely vote against the Iran deal if given the chance. But the deal was never ratified by the Senate, and Democrats used the filibuster to prevent the Senate from voting on it when it was presented last year. Clinton and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump were tied in the overall poll, 44% to 44% in a   race, despite a majority saying that Clinton won last week’s first presidential debate. Libertarian Gary Johnson took 5% and Green Party nominee Jill Stein captured 1% of the vote. The poll surveyed 1, 690 registered voters on Oct. 3 and has a margin of error of 2. 4%. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.