The   is America’s rifle in the same way that the Colt M1911 is America’s pistol. And sales of the   are through the roof, which means those who do not have one want one, and those who have one want two. [Regardless of where you fall on   ownership  —   whether you are seeking your first   or your third  —   the six rifles on this list are worth considering. They range from   to refined, yet each offers something that sets it apart from the others on the list, even if that distinguishing characteristic is cost.  Here are six   rifles to consider for your Christmas wish list: Smith  Wesson MP Sport  —   The Smith  Wesson MP Sport is a basic,     rifle. It comes with a Magpul rear sight, a   magazine, an adjustable buttstock, and a flash hider. The gun is simple, dependable, and accurate. And it is one of the least expensive   on the market. The MP Sport shoots 5. 56  . 223 Remington. The approximate price for an MP Sport (or MP Sport II) is $670 to 700. Bushmaster M4A2  —   The Bushmaster M4A2 is basic, like the MP Sport, but differs in that it has a carry handle and fixed rear sight. In other words, the gun looks like it stepped out of any   war movie you can remember. As with the MP Sport, the basic,   approach on the M4A2 means lower cost but it still delivers true   performance. The M4A2 shoots 5. 56  . 223 Remington. The approximate price for an M4A2 is $780 to $800. Bushmaster    —   The Bushmaster   is a classic   in every sense. It has a fixed buttstock, a fixed rear sight  —   contained in a carry handle  —   and is somewhat bulky (when contrasted with the MP Sport or the Bushmaster M4A2 and similar rifles). But the   has a few things going for it: 1. It is a Bushmaster. 2. It embodies the essence of the   rifle. 3. It is accurate. Take an   and put in a Magpul   or a Daniel Defense   magazine and it’s time to shoot and enjoy. The   is no longer in the Bushmaster catalog so it must be acquired used. The approximate price for a used   is $780 to $840. Colt LE6920  —   The Colt LE6920 is a civilian version of the Colt M4, the gun which countless military personnel relied on for safety during times of war and conflict. The LE6920 comes with a Magpul rear sight and various other Magpul Original Equipment (MOE) parts, including MOE SL handguards, MOE SL carbine stock, and MOE SL pistol grip. The buttstock is position adjustable, like the stocks on the MP15 Sport and the M4A2. The Colt is the only choice for many   fans who want a gun made by the company that manufactured the weapon their fathers and grandfathers used in combat or police service. The approximate price for an LE6920 is $970 to $1, 100. Daniel Defense DDM4 V1  —   The DDM4 V1 takes   refinement to the next level. Breitbart News previously reviewed this gun and noted that “whereas the Bushmaster   is at one end of the spectrum  —   capturing the essence of the   for the shooters who are purists  —   the DDM4 V1 is at the other end of that spectrum, demonstrating everything an   can be in the hands of a person   with it and trained in tactical usage. ” The DDM4 V1 has an adjustable buttstock, vertical foregrip, and other pieces of furniture that are designed by Daniel Defense rather than outside or aftermarket manufacturers. The DDM4 is designed for precision, and you can feel it as soon as you pick the gun up and put it against your shoulder. The approximate price for a DDM4 V1 is $1, 800. Ruger   Takedown  —   The Ruger   Takedown is an   that can be taken down or broken down into three main parts: the buttstock with lower, the upper receiver, and the barrel  —   which is advertised as a “takedown barrel. ” After dissembling the gun in this way, you can place the three main pieces in a carry bag which Ruger provides with every   rifle. The idea behind it is a smaller, more convenient package to carry on hikes into the woods or on camping trips. The   comes with   magazines from Magpul. The dependability of the   goes without saying. After all, it is a Ruger. The approximate price for the   is $2, 000 to $2, 100. As with all guns and gun purchases, it is incumbent on the purchaser to know the laws of his or her state and to familiarize themselves with the weapon they choose to purchase. An   is a workhorse and, with training, can be one of the best weapons imaginable for home, property, and  . AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.