Famed Black Eyed Peas alum, Fergie, released her   “M. I. L. F. $” music video Friday, and some fans have blasted the sexually charged visuals as “trash. ”[The   music video features a slew of celebrity “M. I. L. F. s,” a derogatory acronym for moms, which translates to Mother I’d Love to F*ck.  Among the famous moms are reality TV star Kim Kardashian, super model Chrissy Teigen, and pop sensation Ciara. The women are all neighbors in the fictional neighborhood of “Milfville” which, in the video, is visited by an awestruck “Milfman” who is seen driving through the community delivering bottles of milk. In the video, Fergie and her entourage of famous moms dance around a diner full of stripper poles, a hair salon, and a classroom full of lusting jocks. The   cast of    moms take selfies and strike seductive poses, while Fergie and her backup dancers pour milk all over themselves. “Got MILF?” the singers sing, over a modern   beat.  In a press statement, Fergie said, “Changing the acronym to Moms I’d Like to Follow is about empowering women who do it all. ” “They have a career, a family, and still find the time to take care of themselves and feel sexy. With a wink of course :),” she said, according to Entertainment Weekly. However, not everyone was as inspired by the singer’s song or the music video for it. “Every black eyed peas song was intensely better than this trash,” said one YouTube commenter. “The Dutchess was her peak,” another Youtube user said, referencing the    singer’s 2006 solo debut album. “This is just trash. What’s wrong with you Fergie? Wht the f*ck is this?” Kardashian and Teigen took to Twitter Friday and shared visuals for Fergie’s new song with their millions of fans. Got Milf? @Fergie #MilfMoney https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) July 1, 2016,  YESSSSS! I am so happy this is out now! Had so much fun with @fergie and the girls!! THIS IS MY JAM https:  .   —   christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) July 1, 2016,  The video was directed by Colin Tilley. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson.