Haitians at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia took to the streets to protest Bill and Hillary Clinton and the Clinton Foundation’s actions in the wake of the 2010 cataclysmic earthquake in Haiti. [“The main message is that Hillary Clinton belongs in jail,” one protester said when asked what the overall message of the protest was.  “We believe that the world should know about the crimes the Clinton family has committed against the country of Haiti —  the money they have stolen from the earthquake victims. And we believe that were this to be anyone else, they’d be in jail right now,” he continued. “She’s not in jail because she’s being protected by the Obama administration, the Justice Department, State Department,” the man said.  Indeed, in the wake of the earthquake in Haiti, Hillary Clinton’s family and monied cronies cashed in on the back of the   Caribbean country. Hillary Clinton’s brother, Tony Rodham, landed a lucrative and historically rare Haitian “gold exploitation permit,” while Clinton Foundation donors, including Digicel mobile phone company founder Denis O’Brien, were winning multimillion dollar contracts that would siphon massive profits from the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. “I deal through the Clinton Foundation,” Tony Rodham said, according to a transcript of his testimony during court proceedings obtained by The New York Times. “That gets me in touch with the Haitian officials. I hound my    [Bill Clinton] because it’s his fund that we’re going to get our money from. And he can’t do it until the Haitian government does it. ” The Haiti Sentinel wrote: When the 2010 earthquake hit Haiti, former U. S. President Bill Clinton and   of State Hillary Clinton exacerbated the devastation to their own benefit. In the end, billions of dollars donated by individuals from countries all around the world, weeks upon weeks of top story attention on any and every news agency around the world, left Haitians not just where they began, but in worse circumstances. “We hate Hillary,” one protester fumed. “Bill Clinton signed laws to incarcerate black people. All the Clintons are doing is more jails, more projects, more welfare. We need opportunity just like anybody else. ” “They pretend to like us they’ve been deceiving us,” the protester continued. “It’s time for us to wake up. We don’t want the Clintons. They are criminals. They are evil. ” Asked his thought on Donald Trump, one protester said, “When you compare the Clintons to Donald Trump, it’s night and day. ” “The media is portraying Donald Trump as a racist, against immigrants. He’s not against immigrants,” the protester said. “He’s against the criminals coming in here, committing crimes. ” “He’s not against Muslims he’s against terrorists,” the man said. As Breitbart News reported, Haitians have been protesting the Clintons for years for their transgressions against the tiny island nation. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson.