TEL AVIV  —   Melania Trump told Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s wife, Sara, that she and her husband,   Donald Trump, are looking forward to hosting them at the White House soon and relations between the U. S. and Israel, as well as between their two families, “will be wonderful. ”[The Israeli prime minister took to Facebook to describe Saturday’s conversation between the two first women as “heartfelt and warm. ”  “Mrs. Trump said that she looks forward to our visit at the first opportunity and that there will be wonderful relations between our countries and our families,” Netanyahu said. According to the prime minister, the two women also “discussed the great challenge of raising children under the spotlight that accompanies their fathers who were elected as world leaders. Additionally, they discussed the great importance of emphasizing family time as part of their role as mothers in order to enable their children to grow up in a normal way like all their friends. ” On Friday, Trump told the Wall Street Journal that he hopes to put an end to the   conflict  —   which he referred to as “the war that never ends”  —   by striking “the ultimate deal. ” “As a   I’d like to do  …     the deal that can’t be made. And do it for humanity’s sake,” the   said. The day after the Republican candidate rocked the world by winning the election, he invited Netanyahu to visit Washington at the “first opportunity. ” The prime minister and   “who have known each other for many years, had a warm, heartfelt conversation” over the phone, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said. Netanyahu responded by saying that he and his wife Sara were excited to visit the incoming    and his wife Melania. Netanyahu had congratulated Trump earlier in the day, calling the   “a true friend of the State of Israel. ” “We will work together to advance security, stability and peace in our region,” Netanyahu said in a statement. “The bond between the U. S. and Israel is based on shared values, shared interests and a shared future. I am sure that   Trump and I will continue to strengthen the unique alliance between Israel and the U. S. and we will bring them to ever greater heights,” he added. Netanyahu also released a video congratulating Trump.