Murder is a cold, hard fact. A con job, long or short, is more of a  —   suggestion. It’s open to interpretation. You could argue that it’s the better analogy for a time of rampant uncertainty and alternative truths. To buttress the argument, you could point out the arrival of five new television series about con artists in the last year, all of   interest and entertainment value. “The Catch” on ABC, “Good Behavior” on TNT, “Imposters” on Bravo, “Shut Eye” on Hulu and “Sneaky Pete” on Amazon all deserved more attention than they received, and merit a binge now. That would be especially timely for “The Catch,” which begins its second season on Thursday night. (If you wanted to go to extremes, you could even catch up on all five  —   you’re only looking at 45 episodes.) Con artist stories provide an ideal framework for a problematic love story, with their natural focus on duplicity and the question of whether someone can be trusted in the long run. And all five of these shows make the love connection, “The Catch” and “Imposters” most centrally. They also work well as a vehicle for the secrets and simmering competition of family drama, on display most prominently here in “Good Behavior” and “Sneaky Pete. ” Here’s a quick guide to this   in what I consider ascending order of bingeability. (The first four are available on multiple streaming services “Sneaky Pete” is only on Amazon Prime.) Each one can steal 10 hours of your life before you know it. A married couple (Jeffrey Donovan and KaDee Strickland) manage a string of Los Angeles storefront psychics, while working a complicated con on a rich bereaved mother (Mel Harris) without the knowledge of their dangerous Roma boss (Angus Sampson). CON Mr. Donovan’s character starts to have visions after hitting his head, an unnecessary complication that makes the show feel like the wrong kind of HBO drama. Crime appears to be the sole occupation of Los Angeles’s Roma and Hispanic populations. PRO It looks great, Mr. Donovan is just about ideally cast, and the anthropology of   flimflammery feels authentic. Ditched and cleaned out by his fiancée (Inbar Lavi) a man (Rob Heaps) discovers that he’s only the latest in a string of victims. Three of the woman’s marks set out to find her. CON Through four episodes, the performances are, for the most part, just good enough, though Uma Thurman joined the cast in Episode 3 as a happily violent enforcer named Lenny. PRO The only    comedy in this group, “Imposters” is funnier, in both broad and subtle ways, than you would expect from a Bravo show. The head of a     firm (Mireille Enos) discovers that the con man she’s been chasing is actually her fiancé (Peter Krause) who disappears with all her money. CON It has the slick superficiality of a Shonda Rhimes factory product. Ms. Enos and Mr. Krause, both fine actors, don’t really work as     romantic leads. PRO It has the propulsive, addictive watchability of a Shonda Rhimes factory product. John Simm, as a British gangster deeply involved in a bromance with Mr. Krause’s character, is hilarious. A   seductive con artist (Michelle Dockery) who’s trying to regain custody of her son stumbles into a relationship with a softhearted, sexy hit man (Juan Diego Botto). CON A pronounced tendency to melodrama. PRO It’s good on Southern atmosphere, and Ms. Dockery, free of her role as Lady Mary on “Downton Abbey,” is terrific as a cynical,   American grifter. She and Mr. Botto are easily the hottest couple on this list. Released from prison as the show begins, a scam artist named Marius (Giovanni Ribisi) pretends to be his longtime cellmate, Pete, moving in with Pete’s family and becoming a key member of the family   business while dodging a violent New York gambler (Bryan Cranston). CON The story, shifting between the city and Pete’s new upstate home, is more complicated and heavily populated than it needs to be. PRO The writing is sharp, and the cast is phenomenal: In addition to Mr. Ribisi and Mr. Cranston, the regulars include Margo Martindale, Peter Gerety, Marin Ireland, Jay O. Sanders, Michael O’Keefe and Alison Wright.