Sen. Rand Paul ( ) told Breitbart News exclusively on Tuesday that most American companies would not take the risk of hiring former President Bill Clinton in the wake of sexual assault and rape allegations from a litany of women including Paula Jones, Juanita Broaddrick, Gennifer Flowers, Kathleen Willey, and more. [“I think most company policies in most American corporations wouldn’t even hire someone like Bill Clinton because of his threat to the young people in the workplace,” Paul told Breitbart News in the exclusive phone interview. “As CEO in any company in America, his behavior with an intern would be so unacceptable that he’s really not someone that any company in America would hire. ”  Paul also said that the Clintons —  as former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Bill’s husband, seeks to ascend to the presidency —  must answer these questions and must answer them in a straightforward manner. Paul argued that the woman should be believed when it comes to allegations of rape and sexual assault, and that no exception should be made for Bill Clinton. “I think it is important,” Paul said. “Probably one of the most poignant questions that was addressed to Hillary Clinton was, ‘Hillary Clinton: When a woman says that she has been raped, or a woman says that she has been taken advantage of, should we believe her?’ The question that was asked of her was ‘Should we believe women when they report that someone has harassed her?’ That’s what Hillary Clinton said, is you should, and a person in the audience said ‘well, what about Bill?’ And she refused to answer the question, and I think that’s unacceptable. There’s been a lot of accusations. Should we believe the accuser, or should we take Bill Clinton’s word for it?”  A spokesman for the Clinton campaign has not responded to a request for comment at this time. The Clintons have largely aimed to avoid answering when pressed on this matter, but at this time presumptive GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump is pushing the issue extraordinarily hard. In an interview on Sean Hannity’s program on Wednesday night, Trump is expected to use the term “rape” with regards to Bill Clinton for the first time. Trump has promised he will push the Clintons on these questions throughout the course of the election. Meanwhile, Paul, one of Trump’s former competitors in the 2016 GOP primary, backed his candidacy in the first part of this Breitbart News exclusive interview on Tuesday. Paul said that now that Trump is the GOP’s presidential candidate, he intends to support the pledge he made to back the nominee. Paul just won   as the GOP nominee for U. S. Senate in Kentucky and is expected to easily defeat his   Democratic opponent in November’s general election in the   coal mining state. More from Paul’s exclusive interview with Breitbart News —  including much more about the Clintons —  is forthcoming.