  philosopher and cultural theorist Slavoj Žižek said a Hillary Clinton presidency is a greater danger to the nation than a President Donald Trump. [Žižek explained that while he is “horrified” by Trump, he believes a Trump presidency could result in a “big awakening” that could set into motion the formation of “new political processes. ”  By contrast, Žižek said he sees Clinton as “the true danger” —  pointing specifically to her insincerity, her ties to the Wall Street banks, and her dedication to the “absolute inertia” of our established political system.   When UK’s Channel4 asked Žižek which presidential candidate he would vote for if he were American, Žižek quickly replied, “Trump. ” “I’m horrified at him,” Žižek elaborated, “[but] I’m just left thinking Hillary is the true danger. Why? She built an impossible,   coalition. Look, the one point when I fully agreed with Trump was, you remember, when Bernie Sanders endorsed Hillary?   …     Trump said it’s like somebody from Occupy Wall Street endorsing Lehman Brothers”: Bernie Sanders endorsing Crooked Hillary Clinton is like Occupy Wall Street endorsing Goldman Sachs.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 12, 2016,  Bernie sanders has abandoned his supporters by endorsing       Street Crooked Hillary Clinton.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 12, 2016,  To all the Bernie voters who want to stop bad trade deals  global special interests, we welcome you with open arms. People first.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 12, 2016,  Žižek explained that Trump has been able to “disturb” the entrenched political system and argued that a Trump win could set into motion “new political processes”: In every society, there is a whole network of unwritten rules, how politics works, and how you build consensus. And Trump disturbed this. If Trump wins, both major parties —  Republicans and Democrats —  would have to return to basics, rethink themselves, and maybe some things can happen there.   …     It will be a kind of big awakening. New political processes will be set in motion, will be triggered. Žižek, who has been described as “the Elvis of cultural theory,” rejected the narrative that a Trump presidency would introduce fascism in America. “Look, America is still not a dictatorial state. He will not introduce fascism,” Žižek said. While the rockstar Lacanian Marxist professor, who has been described as a “leftist ” said he was concerned by Trump’s pledge to appoint conservative Supreme Court justices, Žižek explained that, in his view, the threat of a conservative court pales in comparison to the danger posed by a Hillary Clinton presidency: Listen, Trump has openly said   …     he will nominate   [to the Supreme Court] so there are dangers [to a Trump presidency]. I’m just afraid that Hillary stands for this absolute inertia, the most dangerous one, because she’s a cold warrior, and so on, connected with banks pretending to be socially progressive.   progressive Jill Stein has similarly attacked Clinton for pretending to be socially progressive —  describing her as a “corporatist hawk” who is “hostile” to the desires of progressives. Stein has warned that the role of corporate Democrats like Clinton is to “prevent progressives from defying corporate rule. ”