WASHINGTON  —   They agreed just a week ago to the terms of a House Intelligence Committee investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. But now some of the panel’s Democrats are warning that they may pull their support for the inquiry if it becomes mired in   politics. When that might happen is unclear, and Democrats know that the current moment of even tentative comity on the   panel may offer their best chance for scrutinizing links between people close to President Trump and Russian officials. Still, Democrats are bracing for fights over subpoenaing witnesses and documents  —   including, possibly, Mr. Trump’s tax returns  —   since Republicans have balked at an outside, independent inquiry into what intelligence officials say was an unprecedented intrusion into an American election by a foreign power. “I’m not going to be part of a    show that is not a serious effort to do an investigation because this is really serious,” said Representative Jackie Speier, Democrat of California. “If it’s not a legitimate and comprehensive and   investigation, why would we be party to it?” Ms. Speier said the committee’s Democrats  —   all nine of whom were interviewed by The New York Times  —   would not hesitate, “under certain circumstances,” to pull their support. Democrats are already wary of moves by the committee’s chairman, Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, to undercut the purported Russian connection. Mr. Nunes has belittled news stories about the Russian links of Mr. Trump’s associates and has pledged  —   along with Senator Richard M. Burr, the North Carolina Republican who leads the Senate Intelligence Committee  —   to examine Mr. Trump’s accusations, made without evidence, that President Barack Obama ordered surveillance of Trump Tower. Mr. Nunes was a prominent supporter of Mr. Trump’s campaign and served on the administration’s transition team. So far, some Democrats on the House panel said, Mr. Nunes had been receptive to many of their requests in the inquiry. “Most of us would agree that there’s no way we’re participating in any form of   or whitewash, so we will walk away if the moment requires,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut. “But we’re certainly not there yet. ” Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the committee’s top Democrat, said it was unclear whether the panel could conduct a credible investigation, ideally resulting in a single, bipartisan report on its findings. Along with Mr. Nunes, Mr. Schiff is among the   Gang of Eight congressional leaders who receive classified intelligence briefings. “If we get to the point at any time where I feel we can’t do that, where there are legitimate lines of investigation that are being walled off, then I will say so,” Mr. Schiff told reporters this week. Democrats expect the first major test of the investigation  —   and Mr. Nunes’s stewardship  —   to come on March 20, when the committee holds its first public hearing. An initial list of invited witnesses included James B. Comey, the F. B. I. director James R. Clapper Jr. the director of national intelligence under Mr. Obama and Sally Q. Yates, the former acting attorney general who was fired by the Trump administration after refusing to defend the president’s first travel ban. Absent from the witness list was Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, who resigned after it was revealed that he had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other White House officials about his conversations with the Russian ambassador. Though Mr. Nunes emphasized it was only an early list, he referred to Mr. Flynn as “a tangent,” portraying him as more of a victim of the intelligence leaks Mr. Nunes is seeking to investigate than a target of the inquiry. “From everything that I can see, his conversations with the Russian ambassador, he was doing this country a favor, and he should be thanked for it,” Mr. Nunes said. Mr. Nunes may need to tread cautiously to avoid the perception of crossing the line from impartial moderator to advocate. He has said the issue of whether Trump Tower was under surveillance during the campaign was well within the scope of the inquiry, and has denied that he added it after the president demanded that Congress investigate. With a tight smile, Mr. Schiff said he welcomed the opportunity to disprove Mr. Trump’s accusation. But some Democrats fumed at the idea that the panel’s work could give credence to it. Should the issue not be put to rest quickly, Ms. Speier said, “it would call into question the entire investigation. ” Several Democrats said they expected their desire to compel certain witnesses to testify to stoke friction among Republicans. But a flash point could come if Democrats press to subpoena Mr. Trump’s tax returns, a move that could scuttle the entire inquiry. Democrats have favored an outside, independent investigation, but many of them see the panel’s inquiry as the best they can do. And they are keenly aware that by pulling their support, they would sacrifice their roles in an investigation some see as among the most important of their time in public service. “It’s a big jump to pull out of this investigation, no matter how bad it is,” said Representative Mike Quigley, Democrat of Illinois. “Because whatever truth you can bleed out of this thing, the better off you are. ”