Iconic conservative leader and president of the Media Research Center blasted Rep. Trey Gowdy ( ) and Republicans on the House Select Committee on Benghazi Tuesday for their unwillingness to challenge the narratives put forth by President Barack Obama and his secretary of state during the Sept. 11, 2012 Benghazi attacks, Hillary Clinton. [“I am stunned by the GOP’s unwillingness to accomplish anything in Congress, which now extends to resolving investigations,” said Brent Bozell, who is the nephew of William F. Buckley and credited with helping Barry Goldwater write his 1960 book The Conscience of a Conservative.  “Trey Gowdy’s continued admonition that it’s up to the American people to reach their own conclusions about Benghazi is an obfuscation,” Bozell said. At a press conference Tuesday, Gowdy released his committee’s final report, refusing to blame President Obama or   of State Hillary Clinton, as well as refusing to say directly if Clinton lied to the American people regarding the Benghazi attacks. Instead, Gowdy said it was up to Americans to read the report and make their own assessment. “It was up to him to get to the truth, and he punted,” Bozell said. “Just as with the IRS investigation, the Republicans lacked the fortitude to confront those responsible. ” “The causes, events and circumstances regarding the attacks on the American personnel and facilities at Benghazi are still a mystery to the American people,” he said. “Who denied the multiple requests for additional security for the compound? No answer. Who is being held responsible for the deaths of these men? No answer. Why did this administration deliberately lie about the video? No answer. Should the    be held responsible for the multiple failures of the military?” Bozell continued. Turning to the 2016 presidential election, where Clinton is the presumptive Democratic nominee, Bozell said Gowdy again spit the bit. “Should the Secretary of State be held responsible for the disastrous consequences of State Department decisions?” he asked. “Not according to this report. They wouldn’t even state that Hillary Clinton lied about the video though her own emails, read by committee members, prove she had! But they did blame a ‘rusty bureaucratic process. ’” “Once again, Republicans show themselves as creatures of Washington, not of the people, who elected them,” he said. “It doesn’t get more Washington than that. Everyone involved in this charade disgraced himself. ”