David Bossie, president of Citizens United, offered his take on Donald Trump’s North Carolina speech on Friday morning’s edition of Breitbart News Daily. [“Last night’s speech, and his new tone that you’re discussing, is something that’s important for him  —   not just to say once,” he told SiriusXM host Alex Marlow. “It needs to be something that he takes to heart as he moves forward in his campaign  —   today, tomorrow, every day, wake up and say that to himself, because when you’re running for President, you have to be someone who is trying to be President of all of the American people, whether they vote for you or not. ”  “That’s the one key element that Donald Trump needs to get better at, and if he gets better at that, he’s gonna win,” Bossie stressed. “That’s the presidential test. That’s when the American people, wherever they live in the United States, when they go into the ballot box, they are saying to themselves, ‘can this person be President, my President?’ That’s important, and my God, I am so glad that he has done that. ” Bossie also saluted Trump for apologizing for previous harsh rhetoric, saying it was part of “the Bannon and Kellyanne Conway effect,” a reference to the new chairs of the Trump campaign, Steve Bannon of Breitbart News and pollster Kellyanne Conway. “It’s vital that the conservative movement, as a whole, come together, lock arms, and defeat Hillary Clinton,” Bossie stressed. “I know that a lot of my friends in the conservative movement are not happy with Donald Trump as the nominee. But I was not happy with  —   and they were not happy with  —   Mitt Romney, or John McCain before him, Bob Dole, as we look back in time, George W. Bush, George H. W. Bush. ” “Look, conservatives haven’t been happy and together since Ronald Reagan, so I think what we need to do is put aside the small things, and look at the big global picture of a Hillary Clinton presidency, and that should frighten us all,” he advised. “If we support and get behind Donald Trump, we can impact him,” Bossie pointed out. “We can have great impact, as conservatives, in a Trump Administration. We are in the icebox for four years with Hillary Clinton, and America goes down the drain, because four more years of the Barack Obama agenda is a dangerous thing for America. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 