Breitbart News    and Breitbart California Editor Joel Pollak told attorney and   Indianapolis radio host Greg Garrison on Tuesday that accusations of antisemitism against activist David Horowitz and Breitbart itself were “ridiculous. ”[Horowitz published an   at Breitbart on Sunday whose headline referred to commentator Bill Kristol as a “renegade Jew. ”  Pollak told Garrison that “people are acting as if Horowitz’s headline [“Bill Kristol: Republican Spoiler, Renegade Jew”] was antisemitic, which is just ridiculous. ”  While Pollak said, “I don’t agree with David Horowitz” on all the article’s particulars, he added: “What Horowitz is arguing is what conservatives have been arguing about Jewish leftists for a long time, which is that by supporting the policies they do, they endanger Israel. They endanger America. And they’re therefore basically traitors to their own community. “It’s sort of an extreme way of putting it, but what Horowitz did was say Bill Kristol belongs in that category if he supports Hillary Clinton instead of the Republican. ” Pollak also added that he personally disagreed with the headline, but that it was not necessary or “fun” to agree with everything posted by the website. He added that he “would never question” Kristol’s “patriotism or concern about the issues,” though he thought Kristol’s attempts to recruit a   candidate were wrong and driven by pride. In addition, Pollak also said, “A lot of people didn’t bother to read the article. They thought that the words ‘renegade Jew’ were singling Kristol out as a renegade because he is a Jew, not because he’s insufficiently concerned about the welfare of the Jewish people, which is the argument the article is making. If anything, the article goes too far in the other direction. ” “My personal beef with Donald Trump is that he should have chugged a bottle of milk after he won Indiana,” Pollak quipped, joking about the upcoming Indianapolis 500 race. The Garrison show that airs weekday mornings on 93. 1 FM WIBC. The full interview can be heard below: 