Iran would drown U. S. warships if they pose a threat to the Middle Eastern country, warns a commander of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) Navy. [“Wherever the Americans look in the Persian Gulf, they will see us,” said Rear Adm. Ali Fadavi, commander of the IRGC Navy, on Monday night, according to Iran’s   media.  “They know that if they commit the slightest mistake, we will drown their vessels in the Persian Gulf, the Strait of Hormuz, or the Sea of Oman,” he added. Rear Adm. Fadavi’s comments came while he was speaking on state television, notes the   Press TV. The Islamic Republic’s enemies are not aware of the country’s full military capabilities, noted the commander, highlighting the Iranian Navy’s alleged defense might. Fadavi, shedding light on the American military presence in the region, said, “The US has attracted regional and   allies in the waters forming an unnatural military array,” reports the   Mehr News Agency (MNA). “Passing through territorial waters is possible under certain regulations,” noted Fadavi adding, “Accordingly, they have not crossed Iranian waters for numerous years. ” He reiterated that U. S. presence in the Persian Gulf “is an absolute evil. ” Fadavi reportedly claimed that the IRGC has underground facilities equipped with    missiles and a number of vessels. “Americans are aware that Iran would destroy their warships if they take a wrong measure in the region,” declared the IRGC Navy commander, rejecting the joint naval patrols in the Persian Gulf by “Britain, U. S. and France. ” “Upon Iran’s request, Persian speakers are present on almost all American warships in the Persian Gulf as most conversations were conducted in Farsi during recent detention of U. S. marines by the IRGC Navy,” added Fadavi. Innocent passage in both water and air space of the Persian Gulf would not be granted to American vessels and drones, also warned the Iranian rear admiral. “American officials need to improve their understanding of Iran though they currently possess an accurate and true understanding of executive aspects of the region,” he said, later stressing, “Undoubtedly, America’s threats against the Islamic Revolution have not declined even by the smallest degree. ” In   Secretary of Defense Ash Carter told lawmakers that Iran is demonstrating “reckless and destabilizing behavior,” adding that the U. S. seeks to counter the Islamic Republic’s aggression, counter its malign influence, and uphold our “ironclad commitments” to regional allies, namely Israel. Fadavi criticized Carter’s recent comments about Iran. “Iran’s great power has forced US to consider creation of deterrent capabilities,” claimed the IRGC commander. “They once wanted to be the sole beneficiary of regional interests, but later felt the need to share the interests with other partners in exchange for more abilities,” he added. In July 2015, Iran struck a historic nuclear deal with five world powers led by the United States. Secretary of State John Kerry, in April of this year, said, “Iran deserves the benefits of the agreement they struck” on the nuclear deal, adding that he is not surprised by the country’s recent provocative behavior.