Eleanor Darragh, mother of Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) was born in Delaware on Nov. 23, 1934, establishing her citizenship by birth —  and, according to U. S. law, that of her son, even though he was born in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, on Dec. 22, 1970. [The Cruz for President campaign provided Breitbart News exclusively with the birth certificate.  Eleanor Darragh Birth Certificate,  Later, Ted Cruz’s own birth certificate listed his mother as “Eleanor Elizabeth Wilson. ” “Elizabeth” was her mother’s first name, and “Wilson” is a surname from a previous marriage. The Cruz campaign was responding to inquiries from Breitbart News about a document showing that both of Cruz’s parents had been named on a list of voters in Calgary for the 1974 Canadian federal election. Only Canadian citizens were (and are) able to vote in federal elections. The lists were compiled through a    process of “enumeration” by registrars, and were publicized partly so that mistakes could be corrected. According to Elections Canada —  the independent,   agency that runs Canadian elections —  “voters were sent a copy of the list showing the name, address and occupation of all voters in the relevant poll. ” Mistakes were frequent (i. e. “Raphael” instead of “Rafael”) and voters were given the opportunity to fix errors. Ezra Levant, a Canadian conservative journalist who was born and raised in Calgary, recalled the process of enumeration. “It was like a census  …     they were very quick and   visits, someone standing in your doorstep,” he told Breitbart News via  . “They certainly didn’t ask for ID. “It is not surprising to me that there may be a spelling error in someone’s name. A name appearing on the list would not necessarily indicate that they were a citizen, or that they themselves had even spoken to the enumerator —  someone else in the household may have spoken for them,” Levant added. The Cruz campaign told Breitbart News on Friday that Cruz’s mother had never become a Canadian citizen. “She was in Canada on a work permit and never became a permanent resident, let alone a citizen,” said Jason Johnson, chief strategist for the Cruz campaign. “She never registered to vote and never applied for Canadian citizenship. ” In a subsequent statement to Breitbart News, Johnson added: “Eleanor was never a citizen of Canada, and she could not have been under the facts or the law. In short, she did not live in Canada long enough to be a Canadian citizen by the time Cruz was born in 1970: Canadian law required 5 years of permanent residence, and she moved to Canada in December 1967 —  only 3 years before Senator Cruz’s birth. ” The campaign could not provide her Canadian work permit. Canadian immigration authorities could not provide Breitbart News with additional documents, citing Canadian privacy laws.  OO. ready( function()  ) })