More than four months after releasing his death   protest song “F*ck Donald Trump (FDT),” California rapper YG has announced a nationwide music tour of the same name. [The Compton, California rapper will visit 52 cities and will be accompanied by RJ, Kamaiyah, and SadBoy, who will serve as opening acts.  A poster for the “FDT” tour can be seen below. YG is hitting the road   Kamaiyah, RJ  Sad Boy for the #FDTTour! https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Karen Civil (@KarenCivil) August 16, 2016,  Last month, YG and fellow rappers Macklemore and   released the official FDT remix. YG premiered a music video for the FDT remix to coincide with the announcement of the tour. Borrowing heavily from the music video for the original song, which was shut down by the LAPD, the FDT remix music video features endless frames of people flipping off the camera and yelling “f*ck Donald Trump. ” (Warning: Explicit Language) “A Trump rally sounds like Hitler in Berlin. Or KKK sh*t, now I’m goin’ in,”   begins, adding: “This man hates Muslims, that’s a billion f*ckin’ people. If truth be told, Donald is a terrorist. ” Macklemore repeats the     refrain, rhyming, “Bannin’ all Muslims? Aiight, boo this guy. What if we ban all the white dudes?” After asking that America “stop sellin’ automatic guns,” the   rapper jokes about moving to Canada if Trump wins in November: Party in the streets when Hillary winsIf she don’t, my girl’s half CanadianActually nah, I’m not gonna stay with themI got an eagle on my arm, I’m a patriotI’ma stay right here, I ain’t livin’ in fearWith my people who are Muslims, Mexican and queer, Meanwhile, YG, closes out the song by rapping, “Obama don’t like you, Michelle don’t like you. ” “Donald Trump, call him out, KKK supporter His favorite phrase, ‘Deport ’em,’ how the f*ck y’all endorse him?” YG asks before suggesting that we give Obama “a third term. ” In April, YG performed “F —  ck Donald Trump” in front of 20, 000 of his fans, who sang along in unison at the Coachella Music Festival. The rapper posted a video of the   performance to his Facebook page. After Coachella, YG took the lyrics from “F*ck Donald Trump,” and turned them into a mock campaign attack ad directed at the Republican presidential nominee.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson