Azealia Banks penned another   note Wednesday attacking Sarah Palin, “crackers,” and “whitey” just hours after the former Alaska governor vowed to sue the rapper for an earlier graphic outburst against her. [“Despite their best efforts to conceal the contempt and envy that the cracker has for Blacks and other people of color   …    they just can’t hide it and it’s seeping from the seams of their being,” Banks wrote in a Tumblr post Wednesday (emphasis hers).  On Monday, the    rapper issued a series of   tweets that suggested Palin should be   and forced to perform oral sex on a group of black men, and that the incident should be filmed and uploaded to the website WorldStarHipHop. “Sarah Palin needs to have her hair shaved off to a buzz cut, get headf —  ked by a big veiny, ashy, black d —  k then be locked in a cupboard,” Banks wrote in a tweet that was later deleted but   by Media Research Center. “Honestly  …     Let’s find the biggest burliest blackest n —  es and let them run a train on her. Film it and put it on worldstar,” she wrote in another   message. On Tuesday, Palin vowed to sue the rapper over the comments, telling People magazine that Banks “engages in a form of racism and hate that is celebrated by some in the perverted arm of pop culture, but is condemned by those who know it’s tearing our country apart. ” “On your behalf, I think this time I don’t just sit back and swallow it, but put the fear of God in her by holding her accountable,” Palin said. “As many of you have for years implored me to do, I’m finally going to sue. ” But the threat of a lawsuit has seemingly not deterred Banks, who wrote Wednesday that white people are “running out of mental  *ck tricks. ” Banks wrote (emphasis hers): “i’m 100% positive that the police killings, cultural appropriation, Trump and Palin etc. represent the contempt that whitey shares for this intangible  uncontrollable new black mind that’s been steeping for a while now. The mind born of very intelligent and real   around American Racism. And the detachment of the Black mind from the mirage of a subpar existence and   that crackers created for us long ago. They feel exposed and out of control for once. And our big black ideas and expression are threatening to further expose them, so they’ll try to trivialize and minimize our blackness by stereotyping us. ” “Blackness is frustrating crackers nowadays because it’s threatening their sense of security and being,” she added. “We longer care about what they think, so it’s hard to control us. ” “F*ck whitey,” the rapper concluded the post. The note came after Banks continued to tweet about her spat with Palin late Tuesday into Wednesday morning, with the rapper suggesting that the former GOP vice presidential nominee was performing sexual favors for current GOP presidential frontrunner Donald Trump: When you’re a public figure who courts attention, you can’t sue ppl for making jokes. Freedom of Speech girllllyyyyy,  —   AZEALIABANKS (@AZEALIABANKS) April 5, 2016,  Everyone can tell you’re spreading them cheeks for Mr. Trump Sarah  …    .. you ain’t got to lie.  —   AZEALIABANKS (@AZEALIABANKS) April 5, 2016,  Banks and Palin exchanged open letters on Tuesday, with Palin calling for the rapper to join her to “work together on something worthwhile  —   like condemning racism, along with empowering young women to defend themselves against a most misogynist, degrading, devastating assault perpetrated by evil men  —   rape. ” Banks apologized to Palin in her own letter, opening by apologizing “for any emotional distress or reputational scarring I may have caused you. ” “In my honest defense, i was completely kidding,” the     rapper wrote. “I happen to have a really crass,    sense of humor, and regularly make silly jokes in attempts make light of situations which make me uncomfortable. As the fabric of the American Nation is EMBEDDED with racism, I merely made a raCIALly driven joke to counter what i believed to be real, raCIST rhetoric [sic]. ” Palin has not yet responded to Banks’ latest note. Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum