Hillary Clinton will return to Los Angeles in September for a pair of   fundraisers hosted by Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane and billionaire businessman Barry Diller and his wife, fashion designer Diane von Furstenburg. [Clinton will be in town September 13 and will first head to MacFarlane’s Beverly Hills home for a lunch fundraiser, with tickets starting at $5, 000 and going up to $50, 000. Lionel Richie is set to perform at the event.  In the evening, Clinton will travel to the home of IAC Chairman Barry Diller and his wife Diane von Furstenberg to participate in an event billed “Conversation and Dinner with Hillary Clinton. ” Tickets to the event, which is being   by former Disney chief Michael Eisner, are set at $100, 000 per couple. Deadline first reported on Clinton’s updated fundraising schedule. Clinton was last in California in August for a series of   fundraisers hosted by Hollywood celebrities and tech titans. The Democratic presidential candidate attended a lunch at the home of pop star Justin Timberlake and his wife, actress Jessica Biel, before heading to the Beverly Hills home of billionaire entertainment mogul Haim Saban and his wife Cheryl for a $100, 000   dinner and    fundraising event that reportedly drew 80 attendees. During that trip, Clinton also attended a fundraiser at the home of former NBA legend Magic Johnson, and later traveled to the Bay Area for two more fundraisers, including one hosted by Apple CEO Tim Cook. Clinton’s   California trip brought in around $18 million, or roughly $270, 000 per hour, for her campaign. The Democratic candidate raised $143 million in August, the most successful fundraising month of her campaign thus far. Democratic vice presidential hopeful Tim Kaine is also set to travel to Los Angeles in September to attend his own series of fundraisers. According to Deadline, actress Eva Longoria will host Kaine at her home on September 19 for a Latinos for Hillary fundraiser. Tickets for the event start at $10, 000 and go up to $100, 000. The following day, Kaine is expected to attend a lunch fundraiser at the home of UTA managing director Jay Sures, with tickets ranging from $2, 700 to $27, 000.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,  