NEW YORK  —   In a demonstration of moral equivalency madness, the United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process Nickolay Mladenov (pictured) yesterday equated Palestinian terrorism with Israel’s defense against murderous Palestinian attacks. [Over the weekend, Israelis were targeted in six Palestinian terror attacks in Jerusalem and the West Bank, including three stabbings and a   attack. On Monday alone, Palestinians perpetrated four more terrorist attacks, including stabbings and attempted stabbings in Hebron and Herod’s Gate, which leads to Jerusalem’s Old City.  Yet the UN’s Mladenov seemingly cannot distinguish between victims of terrorism and aggressors. In response to the spike in Palestinian terrorism, Mladenov called on “both sides” to “avoid escalation,” ignoring that one side is carrying out the attacks while the other is protecting itself. “I reiterate the United Nations’ position that there can be no justification for terrorism and violence. I call upon authorities on both sides to take measures to preserve calm and avoid escalation, especially during the upcoming period of the Jewish High Holy Days,” Mladenov stated. What exactly is Mlandenov requesting of Israel? That Israelis should allow themselves to be stabbed? That Israelis should not move out of the way the next time a Palestinian attempts to commit vehicular murder? That Israeli authorities should not act to stop terrorist incidents? If the UN wishes to “preserve calm,” the international body should start with a Middle East reality check. Next, perhaps the UN should demand an end to official Palestinian Authority   incitement and work to halt the PA’s tacit support for the very terrorism plaguing Israel. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.