Speaking with host and Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon on Breitbart News Daily, Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos discussed the suppression of conservative voices by Twitter on the social media platform. [“Why are you beating up Twitter, and why are you saying that Twitter trying to suppress conservative voices, and why is Twitter’s stock in a total free fall because Milo’s taking them on?” Bannon asked. “Are you a bigger, badder guy than Jack Dorsey?”  “Yeah, of course I am,” Yiannopoulos replied mischievously. “I’m absolute convinced that Twitter is embarking on a war against conservative points of view, a war against what we might call ‘Generation Trump,’ the dissident, mischievous voices of the new   alternative right wing and libertarian youth. ” “Look at who Twitter employs,” he warned in reference to Twitter possibly influencing the 2016 presidential election. “You know, this guy used to work with Hillary, this guy used to work with Obama  …    ” “This is why Obama ran the tables with Google and with Facebook,” Bannon agreed. “Let’s talk about Facebook for a second. Why is Facebook suppressing voices in the continent of Europe about immigration. Why is Zuckerberg in bed with Merkel?” Referring to the story of Facebook teaming up with the German government to censor debate over the influx of Middle Eastern migrants, Yiannopoulos said, “This is what the left does all over the world. They’ll take ridicule and criticism and they’ll rebrand it as abuse and harrassment or hate speech in some way. ” “This mergence of technology and thought control, it’s Orwellian,” Bannon said. “Are you fighting a rearguard action, or can we have victory in this?” Noting that Twitter is failing and “in its death throes,” Yiannopoulos stated that Facebook is “more of a problem” and “the one we should really be worried about. ” “Why is Facebook more of a problem?” Bannon asked. “Because the company’s not doing so badly,” Yiannopoulos replied. “Twitter’s influence is waning. We found out this week its monthly active users are going down. The stock price is tanking, partly as a result of their spat with me, I think. I don’t worry too much about them. ” “I do worry about Facebook. I worry about Facebook because it’s not just Facebook we’re talking about, they also own WhatsApp, and they also own Instagram,” he explained. “This company owns the platforms on which young people are messaging one another, and it has shown itself to be untrustworthy when it comes to free speech. ” Noah Dulis is the Deputy Managing Editor of Breitbart News and   of Breitbart Tech. Follow him on Twitter @Marshal_Dov.