Orange Is the New Black actress Taryn Manning is suing the New York City Police Department for $10 million after she says she was wrongfully arrested for threatening her stalker. [On Nov. 20, 2014, Manning, 37, was detained at a precinct in Chinatown after she made contact with Jeanine Heller, a former friend who she had filed a protective order against. According to documents obtained by Page Six, Heller had previously been arrested twice for allegedly stalking and harassing Manning.  Detectives had arranged a meeting with Manning and her attorney after the actress threatened Heller, as communication was forbidden by both parties as part of the court order. At the end of the meeting, Manning claims she was arrested and placed in a holding cell, despite detectives knowing beforehand the District Attorney’s office would not be seeking charges against her over the contact. Manning was released several hours later and not charged. The actress filed a wrongful arrest suit in the Manhattan Supreme Court on Monday, Page Six reports. James Franzetti, an attorney for Manning, alleges the arrest damaged his client’s reputation and never should have taken place. The attorney told PEOPLE, “Ms. Manning should never have been arrested where the New York City Police Department received advance notice from the New York County District Attorney’s Office that Ms. Manning would not be prosecuted based on an allegation of the subject complainant,” he said. Franzetti also noted that Heller refused to adhere to the terms of the order, in which she agreed not to contact the actress. Manning is suing the NYPD for $10 million in damages and is seeking compensation for legal fees, emotional distress, and harm to her reputation. Manning, who is known for playing inmate Tiffany “Pennsatucky” Doggett on the hit Netflix series Orange Is the New Black, is currently involved in another legal scandal. On Jan. 29, it was reported that Manning had been accused of viciously assaulting a makeup artist during a fight in New York in 2015. A makeup artist named Holly Hartman claims the star   her in the face, sprayed Windex in her eyes and mouth, put her in a headlock and whipped her with a wet towel during an altercation at Manning’s New York City apartment. During the altercation, Manning allegedly told Hartman: “Pick a knife. I’m wearing a white shirt. There will be a lot of blood. You will be famous for killing Taryn Manning. ” Hartman filed a restraining order against Manning, but the request was dismissed after Hartman filed the court documents in California instead of New York, where the alleged assault took place. Manning was previously arrested for allegedly assaulting Hartman in 2012, but the charges were later dropped.