Fresh off of a season that took merciless aim at the absurdity of social justice warriors and overly politically correct culture, South Park returns on Wednesday for its 20th season by diving   into another controversy  —   the Colin   protest demonstrations during the National Anthem. [In a teaser for the new season posted to the show’s official Twitter account Monday night  —   just as the San Francisco 49ers kicked off their   game against the Los Angeles Rams  —   the South Park gang sings an “updated” version of the National Anthem that would perhaps be more in tune with the quarterback’s feelings about policing in America.  Don’t sit this one out! #SouthPark returns this Wednesday on @ComedyCentral with 10   episodes! #mnf pic. twitter.   —   South Park (@SouthPark) September 13, 2016,  “Colin Kaepernick is   are pigs, cops are   someone just took my stuff, I need to call the cops,” the group, fronted by Randy Marsh and Gerald Broflovski, sings to the tune of “The   Banner. ” “Oh no, I just said cops are  ’s gonna help me get my stuff?  did I listen to Colin Kaepernick, he’s not even any good,” the song continues. “Oh, I just got all my stuff   are pigs again, cops are   Kaepernick’s a good backup. ” Kaepernick touched off a firestorm in the NFL in August when he refused to stand during the National Anthem ahead of a   game against the Green Bay Packers. The quarterback said he would continue to sit during the Anthem until there is “significant change” and he feels “the flag represents what it’s supposed to represent and this country is representing people the way it’s supposed to. ” The move sparked other players in the league to protest during the Anthem, including Denver Broncos linebacker Brandon Marshall and members of the Seattle Seahawks, Kansas City Chiefs, Miami Dolphins and New England Patriots. Last year’s season previously skewered   enforcement liberals when the newly “PC” citizens of South Park banished “racist,  ” police officers from town.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum