Both Democrat Hillary R. Clinton and Republican Donald J. Trump have 40 percent of the vote in the race for Colorado’s nine electoral votes, according to the   poll conducted Nov. 1 and Nov. 2 with 1, 125 registered voters in the state. [“This race has tightened, especially when you consider that in August the Clinton campaign was so confident that it announced it was pulling its ads money from the state to focus on other targets,” said Doug Kaplan, the managing partner of Gravis Marketing, the   polling company that executed the poll. The poll carries a 2. 9 percent margin of error with a 95 percent level of confidence.  Kaplan said, “Now the Clinton campaign is advertising in Colorado again and former president Bill Clinton made three stops in the state Friday. ” Libertarian Gary Johnson has the support of seven percent of the respondents, with Green Party nominee Dr. Jill Stein the choice of four percent. In the 2012 presidential race, President Barack Obama beat Republican W. Mitt Romney with 52 percent of the vote to Romney’s 46 percent. In the Senate race, Democratic Sen. Michael Bennet holds a slight edge over his GOP rival Daryl Glenn, with 47 percent of the voters to Glenn’s 44 percent —  just at the margin of error. The poll participants were asked a series of questions to gauge the mood of Colorado’s electorate. Sixty percent of the participants said the country was going in the wrong direction and 31 percent said it was going in the right direction.   percent of respondents said Obamacare was not a success and 33 percent said the president’s healthcare reform legislation was a success. Asked: Why do you think FBI Director James Comey chose to reopen the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while Secretary of State after the agency recently uncovered thousands of emails on the laptop used by Clinton’s closest adviser?   percent of the respondents said Comey believed that he had found a significant development and 39 percent said the FBI director was trying to influence the election. Although the rebooting of the FBI investigation has dominated the news, 61 percent of respondents said it would not affect their vote, while 17 percent said it was “More Likely” to have an impact and 23 percent said it was “Less Likely. ” Asked: How concerned are you that if Hillary Clinton were elected President her current controversies and scandals will continue to be a central focus of her Presidency and detract from her ability to lead the country? Sixty percent of the respondents said they were concerned, broken down as 47 percent saying they were “Very Concerned” and 15 percent saying they “Concerned. ” Seventeen percent said they were “Not Concerned at All” and 19 percent said they were “Not Very Concerned. ” The poll was conducted using interactive voice response polling and an internet panel of cell phone users with results weighted to match a proprietary turnout model.   percent of the respondents said they had already voted. Colorado (November 3, 2016) v2 by Breitbart News on Scribd, 