Sure, “Saturday Night Live” has offered ample criticism of President Trump and his young administration. But in its latest episode, the program expressed confidence that he’ll be in office until at least 2018, long enough to see America decimated by an alien invasion force from the planet Zorblatt 9. After a palpable absence last week, Alec Baldwin returned to play Mr. Trump in the “S. N. L. ” cold open, which imagined him in a future year, visiting a military base and trying to dispense words of inspiration while the United States battles with an extraterrestrial adversary. It was an opportunity for a rousing “Independence Day”  speech. So how did he start? Mr. Baldwin  —   who, outside of “S. N. L. ,” has recently been hinting that he does not plan to play Mr. Trump in perpetuity  —   began by asking, “Who here loves Trump?” “I know this guy over here, he loves Trump,” he said, pointing at what turned out to be a charred corpse. A military officer played by the cast member Kenan Thompson told him, “The aliens are killing us, sir. They have the most advanced weaponized technology we’ve ever seen. What should we do?” The Trump character responded, “Here’s what we’re going to do. We are going to bring coal back, O. K.? We’re going to have so much coal, you’re going to say, ‘Where did all this coal come from? I never knew there could be so much coal. ’” Informed that the aliens had already vaporized the state of California, Mr. Baldwin answered, “So then I won the popular vote?” As Mr. Trump, he explained that the aliens had already been secretly living in the United States for hundreds of years. “Look, there’s one right there,” he said, indicating Leslie Jones. “And so is the woman next to her, right there,” he said, pointing at Sasheer Zamata. Asked where he was getting his information, Mr. Baldwin replied, “From a very reputable source, Infowars. It’s a radio show hosted by Alex Jones. You know he’s legit because he’s always taking off his shirt. ” When the aliens at last overrun the base and learn that Mr. Trump is president, one creature (played by Bobby Moynihan) declares, “Really? This is going to be so easy. ” A filmed segment shown later featured the guest host Scarlett Johansson as Ivanka Trump, in a commercial parody for her own brand of perfume. A narrator pitched the product in a whispery  : “She’s Ivanka. And a woman like her deserves a fragrance all her own. A scent made just for her. Because she’s beautiful. She’s powerful. She’s complicit. ” The narrator added, “She doesn’t crave the spotlight. But we see her. Oh, how we see her. ” (At the same time, Ms. Johansson was shown looking in a mirror and applying lipstick, seeing the reflection of Mr. Baldwin as Mr. Trump, performing the same action.) A final   for Complicit described it as “the fragrance for the woman who could stop all this, but won’t. ” (“Also available in a cologne for Jared,” the narrator said, in a reference to Ms. Trump’s husband, Jared Kushner.) During a   segment on “Weekend Update,” Kate McKinnon reprised her role as Attorney General Jeff Sessions, seated side by side with Senator Al Franken (Alex Moffat) the Minnesota Democrat and “S. N. L. ” alumnus who has said that Mr. Sessions may have perjured himself in his responses to Mr. Franken’s questions at his confirmation hearing. As Mr. Sessions, Ms. McKinnon said, “People don’t realize this, but Al and I are actually great friends. ” In the past, she said, she took him   rafting, and, in return, “Al showed me Jew stuff. ” (“We had lunch at a deli, Jeff,” Mr. Moffat replied in an imitation of Mr. Franken’s dry delivery.) Mr. Moffat tried to get Ms. McKinnon to clarify her testimony: “I’m just a simple country laaaaar,” she explained. “Are you saying lawyer or liar?” he asked. For good measure, “Weekend Update” concluded with Pete Davidson taking potshots at various people associated with the Trump administration, including the White House adviser Stephen Miller (“He tries to project strength,” Mr. Davidson said, “but he looks like Fredo Corleone had been even sicker as a child”) and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the deputy White House press secretary (whom Mr. Davidson called “one of those sweet Southern girls that you marry if you’re gay”). Last week, the president’s son Donald Trump Jr. responded playfully to his portrayal on “S. N. L. ,” writing in an Instagram post, “if you ever need a Don Jr fill in I’m available. ” There were no immediate responses to this week’s episode from President Trump or the population of Zorblatt 9.