Breitbart’s Managing Editor and Social Media Director, Wynton Hall, joined Stephen K. Bannon on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 to discuss the recent launch of Breitbart’s Instagram account. [“It’s ‘We are Breitbart’ Instagram page. If you’re on our homepage, on the   there’s a ‘connect with us’ section, you can click on the icon. You can look at it on your phone,” said Hall.  “If you talk about being a Hobbit and taking the Shire, I’ll tell you this  …     Your mobile phone is a sword, and it’s a sword you use every day, that’s why we’re number one in the world on Facebook political, and on Instagram it’s gonna be the same thing,” he explained. “Memes, videos, breaking news, being able to have you out there hitting share, like, comment. We weaponize that information, the truth gets out to a far bigger audience. So, ‘We are Breitbart’ Instagram, we actually threw it up yesterday with the simple little announcement, and 2, 500 people have already joined  …    ” “So how do people join Instagram, how are the hobbits out there supposed to do this today?” asked Bannon. “Great question, so if you have your iPhone or your Android, you can download the Instagram app. Very simple, you just go into the App Store, you download the Instagram app, and then you just type in the search bar ‘We are Breitbart’ and hit follow,” answered Hall. “Now you’ve got in your hands a digital weapon that you can use every single day with us to get the message out and to push truth as far, and make it as viral, as possible,” he said. “Just like we have on Facebook. We have 2. 3 million people on our Facebook, and we are number one in the world for political, and the reason why is because our readers get it. ” “Yeah, people don’t understand that 2. 4 million likes is not that big. Our competitors in the space have 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 million,” replied Bannon. “We’re number one in the world on Facebook in political articles and the political vertical, above companies like the Huffington Post, above The Guardian of the United Kingdom, above the Times of London, above the New York Times, above Buzzfeed. We have beaten them at their own game, and the reason we have beaten them at their own game? We’re just smarter and tougher. Right, Mr. Hall?” “By the way, since you and I have said this, we’ve just had a hundred people on Instagram, so thank you everybody who heard what we said,” added Hall. “But here’s the thing, our people are the smartest crew out there. They understand. They go to their battle stations, and we put out this information on social media, and they say, you know what, look, maybe I’m not a younger person, maybe I’m not in the young crowd, but you know what, social media is not really about you and me, it’s about getting the message out there. It’s the ultimate megaphone and we have to use it. ” “That’s why we worked so hard and around the clock for over a year and a half to build these platforms so you had your own megaphone and blowhorn that you could use every single minute of the day and say, you know what, I’m going to be part of the solution and not the problem,” he explained. “I’m gonna get the message out to the farthest reach I can, I’m gonna hit share, I’m gonna hit like, I’m gonna hit comment, and that’s why we built the ‘We are Breitbart’ Instagram page. To give you one more way to do that. ” You can follow the official ‘We are Breitbart’ Instagram account here.  Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.