On Friday, Uber launched UberPassport, a       transportation service that will take passengers on a   trip from San Diego as far east as Mexicali, which is the capital city of the Mexican state of Baja California, and also to Tijuana. [Prior to this service, individuals had to cross the border by foot and then call for a cab in Mexico.  “It’s very exciting for us because there are a lot of places where we could have launched a   product, but we recognize the importance of the largest border crossing in the world and the unique relationship between San Diego and Tijuana,” Christopher Ballard, general manager for Uber in Southern California, told the San Diego  . “These are cities whose families, cultures and economies are closely linked. ” Uber issued a statement about its new Passport service on their site” “Riders can now use the Uber platform to arrange one seamless trip from San Diego to Tijuana. Whether it’s a business trip or a beach getaway, Uber can help make your journey into Mexico safe and  . ” The rideshare startup says the idea for UberPassport stemmed from the mass   commuting that already takes place between California and Mexico. Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto has in the past said that California was “the other Mexico. ” According to a 2015 census conducted by the U. S. Census Bureau, there are approximately 15 million Latinos living in California. Passengers only require a valid passport and any other required documentation to make their trip smooth. According to the Tribune, roughy 50, 000 people have taken an Uber from San Diego border to the Mexican border. Passport’s   trips are reportedly only available through the company’s black car service and an additional $20 convenience fee will be added to the   and   default rates that are normally charged. Considering this is a   trip, the question remains: how will riders get back? Uber notes on its site that passengers will need to cross over by foot using the pedestrian lane. Uber provides “four steps” as to how people can cross back over into the United States on their site. San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer was at the launch of UberPassport, and issued the following statement: San Diego is a   city of creative minds and innovative people. We’re constantly finding solutions to global issues and breaking barriers to opportunities for residents. Uber’s new program, UberPASSPORT, highlights the best of what San Diego has to offer by using one the world’s most innovative apps to bridge countries, businesses and families in a way that has never been done before. Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz.