LOS ANGELES  —   Two women were briefly arrested on Friday night after a rally for Donald Trump in West Hollywood, a city from which the Republican presidential nominee is officially “banned. ”[Earlier, a woman allegedly assaulted Alaskan artist and   activist Tim Treadstone, better known by stage name Baked Alaska, outside of a popular Mexican restaurant in West Hollywood.  “This blond girl grabbed my iPhone and threw it as hard as she could to the pavement. And before I could pick it up, the brunette who was throwing the food at people punched me in the head. My glasses and my hat flew off,” Treadstone told Breitbart News Friday evening. “There were claw marks on my neck. ” The alleged assault took place after a   rally, which took place at the intersection of Santa Monica and San Vicente Boulevards in front of the West Hollywood Sheriff’s Station. The event was broadcast live via Periscope. Treadstone said the West Hollywood Sheriff’s Department was contacted and that the two females attempted to hide in the restroom of a neighboring bar, but that they were arrested after a couple who witnessed the altercation  —   and who were not Trump supporters  —   spoke to police. At the restaurant,   ralliers had attempted to dine but were refused service. Instead, patrons hurled food, drinks and slurs at them. A clip from Twitter shows a woman in the restaurant shouting at Trump supporters: “Get the f*** out of here. Get the hell out of here. ” Trump supporters assaulted. Refused serviced by hosts  security. 2 @FiestaCantina @CBSNews @cnn @nbcnews @Cernovich pic. twitter.   —   Nestor Moto Jr (@nestormotojr) August 13, 2016, “We walk in and all of a sudden pretty much all the customers started screaming at us, giving us middle fingers, and throwing guacamole, chips and food at our group,” Treadstone explained. “One of the female customers comes out and starts shoving us and physically saying ‘you guys don’t belong here,’ which was echoed by other tables at the restaurant. They kept saying ‘You’re not welcome here,’ just because we were wearing Trump hats. We weren’t allowed to eat at the restaurant. ” “The patrons started throwing food. I’ve never seen anything like it,” author and lawyer Mike Cernovich told Breitbart News. “The were throwing nachos and guacamole at us. ” He described the woman who allegedly assaulted Treadstone as “the instigator. She tried kicking all the Trump people out of the restaurant. She was the   of all the drama inside. She’s just a violent, feral person,” Cernovich said. Earlier, at the rally, a can of Monster energy drink, eggs, and dog feces were also thrown at   demonstrators. The can of Monster hit one man on the back. “Justice needs to be served,” Treadstone said. “And we are going to make sure it is with the current laws in place so we ensure this doesn’t happen to other people. ” Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz