Welcome to Breitbart News’s daily live updates of the 2016 horse race. Here’s a preview of what to expect on Super Tuesday. [ —    1:22: Math not on their side: Cruz and Rubio camps are no longer pretending they can win this nomination before Cleveland. Both camps pushing convention scenarios.  —   Chuck Todd (@chucktodd) March 2, 2016,  1:20: Nolte calls out   pundit: 1:13: Huge GOP turnout. And it’s not because of anything in the RNC’s    “autopsy” report: Amanda Carpenter is not doing her job tonight, not ANALYZING for the CNN audience. One transparent   talking point after another.  —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 2, 2016,  According to number crunching by @LACaldwellDC there has been record GOP turnout in every state so far except VT.  —   Chuck Todd (@chucktodd) March 2, 2016,  1:07: The Hill: Rubio Super Tuesday’s ‘Big Loser. ” 1:05: Newsweek’s Matthew Cooper: IT’S CLINTON V. TRUMP AND DONALD WON THE FIRST ROUND: Tonight was the first night of the general election and Trump won, 12:55: Big Rubio MN win?: Rubio won Minnesota big —  but it’s the state that allocates its delegates most evenly. Allocation based on 88% in, Rubio 14, Cruz 13, Trump 11,  —   Taniel (@Taniel) March 2, 2016,  12:45: Bad night for Rubio: Rubio said earlier he would get a ”major number of delegates in virtually every state.” But TX: 0. VT: 0. AL: 0. Still counting, but  …      —   Rick Klein (@rickklein) March 2, 2016,  12:06: Associated Press: Trump Projected to win Vermont. Thank you Vermont! #Trump2016#SuperTuesday,  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2016,  11:59: Ted Cruz on potential Trump nomination: Ted Cruz to @CNN when asked if he’ll support Trump if he wins nomination: ”I will support the Republican nominee. Period. The end.”  —   Chris Moody (@moody) March 2, 2016,  11:49: Tavis Smiley: Hillary Shouldn’t Take Black Voters for Granted Against Trump, Something tells me that if Donald Trump is indeed the Republican nominee, it might be a miscalculation for Democrats to assume that black voters are a lock for their nominee, even with the first black president and Barack Obama both campaigning for her. [Tony Lee: Van Jones, Jamelle Bouie and others have said that black voters may be receptive to Trump’s message. So there’s something there. It’s amusing that the same media and GOP establishment pundits who said Trump could not win the GOP nomination because he initially had such unfavorable poll numbers with Republican voters are now saying that he will lose minority voters by a landslide in a  potential general election. Not so fast. First, minority voters may not want to publicly admit that they support Trump because they fear a backlash against them, stirred by “leaders” and “activists” who often care more about their bottom lines and standing in the political circles than the interests of their communities. Second, though Clinton connects better with minority voters than Sanders, that’s not really saying much. Just compare Obama’s Brown Chapel AME address in 2007 with Hillary Clinton’s at a Selma church on the same day. Or compare Obama’s “fierce urgency of now” speech at Iowa’s   dinner with whatever   speech Clinton gave. Third, mainstream media members and GOP establishment pundits surround themselves with minorities who speak “Politically Correct English. ” They went to the same schools. Are from the same zip codes. Roll in the same social circles. But there are a lot of politically incorrect and   minorities who are not ashamed to watch and enjoy WWE rasslin’ who may find Trump’s message as respective as   union workers. When the media ask Trump about his current    favorability ratings with minorities, he should point out that campaigns are run to change perceptions. And Trump’s GOP presidential campaign has already changed the perception of Republican voters who viewed him so unfavorably when he entered the race.] 11:43: Newt on Trump’s presser: Trump’s decision to hold a serious press conference instead of a campaign speech was masterful and a great contrast to Cruz and Rubio.  —   Newt Gingrich (@newtgingrich) March 2, 2016,  11:37: MN GOP caucus winners over the years: MN GOP caucus winners:2016  —   Rubio2012  —   Santorum2008  —   Romney, Strong record of choosing winners! https:  .   —   Andrew Good (@Drewbueno) March 2, 2016,  11:35: Rubio having a tough time spinning the press: No joke. This was the look on Tapper’s face just before he asked Rubio if he was in denial. pic. twitter.   —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 2, 2016,  11:30: Sanders projected to win Minnesota. 11:26: Quick take from Nolte: Absolutely disastrous night for Rubio. Cruz lives to fight another day.  Total triumph for Trump.  —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 2, 2016,  11:25: Known as the “GOP Smart set”: Bill Burton on CNN: ”#NeverTrump is all Republican pundits, columnists, lobbyists, people on CNN  …     No voters.”  —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 2, 2016,  11:24: Minnesota winners: And Jesse Ventura.  https:  .   —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 2, 2016,  Guess who else won Minnesota? Al Franken.  —   Matthew Boyle (@mboyle1) March 2, 2016,  11:18: Clinton projected to win Massachusetts: 11:15: Team Kasich excited to get   advantage in March? Great night. We’ve been playing away games  …     Now home court in front of us. Rubio team said 4 wins tonight?  Narrowing soon to us and trump,  —   John Weaver (@JWGOP) March 2, 2016,  11:12: Palin Tweets after caucusing for Trump in Alaska: Had a great time exercising the right to vote with long lines and enthusiastic fellow voters  —   let’s make America great again!   —   Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) March 2, 2016,  11:10: Fox News Projects Rubio will win Minnesota’s caucuses. Rubio wins Minnesota. Wait for a tidal wave of RINOs to call for Cruz to step aside.  —   toddstarnes (@toddstarnes) March 2, 2016,  [Tony Lee: Why in the world did Rubio give “victory” speech so early in the night? He could have spoken as votes from Minnesota were coming in and still made the 11 p. m. EST window and gotten the last word on the night.] 11:04: Nolte: Sanders has so far won 4 states tonight  —   VermontColoradoMinnesotaOklahoma,  —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 2, 2016,  11:02: 20% watch, Rubio viability watch in 20% threshold states: GA 22. 9% (78% in) TN 19. 92% (71% in) ! VT 19. 5% (69% in) TX 18. 2% (18% in) AL 17. 6% (46% in)  —   Taniel (@Taniel) March 2, 2016,  11:01: Sanders Projected to Win Colorado. 11:00: Republican National Committee (their   “autopsy” report doomed their darling Rubio’s candidacy) issues statement on the GOP’s record turnout WITHOUT MENTIONING Trump, who is responsible for the surge: “While Democrats have seen turnout drop across the board, the record number of Republicans who have gone to the polls in each state shows the country is ready for change after eight years of failed leadership from President Obama. Democrats simply aren’t being energized by Hillary Clinton’s calculated campaign to maintain the status quo or Bernie Sanders’ fringe calls for a socialist ‘revolution,’” RNC Chair Priebus says in a statement. “The Democrat Primary has become a race to the far left between an embattled frontrunner facing an FBI investigation and a   socialist who continues to win states and outraise the Clinton machine. At the end of the day, Democrats are saddled with two fundamentally flawed candidates destined to fail in a general election and a message that isn’t resonating or in line with the majority of Americans. ” WOW. Virginia GOP primary turnout in 2012: 265, 570. Estimate in 2016?: 1, 025, 000. (From Edison Media Research)  —   Jose A. DelReal (@jdelreal) March 2, 2016,  10:38: That’s what they say during March Madness (win or go home): Win or go home. RT: @rickklein: Rubio: ”we will win FL, I promise you that.”  —   Mark Krikorian (@MarkSKrikorian) March 2, 2016,  10:21: Cruz accuses Trump of supporting cronyism and says he will end corporate welfare, adopt a flat tax, and abolish the IRS. Cruz says Trump funded the “Gang of Eight” while he led the successful opposition to the Gang of Eight’s amnesty plan. He rips Trump for supporting Planned Parenthood while he will direct the Justice Dept. to investigate Planned Parenthood. He says, unlike Trump, he will never compromise away our religious liberties and or Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. Cruz says he will rip away the catastrophic Iran nuclear deal. Cruz says he understands those who are “angry with Washington” and accuses Trump of being part of the Washington corruption for 40 years. Cruz calls on Trump to release the NY Times    interview about immigration. He says voters have a right to know if he is lying to the voters about immigration. [Tony Lee: Trump’s press conference made him look different tonight. He stood out as a   and did not sound like one with his unconventional press conference. Cruz and Clinton sound like typical   when their speeches are compared to Trump’s press conference. Which candidate tonight spoke the language of the voters?] 10:19: Cruz says Republicans in the next primary states have a choice to make. He says America shouldn’t have a president whose words would embarrass them. He says our president should make us proud and inspire hope in all of us. “We can nominate a Washington dealmaker —  profane and vulgar —  who has a lifelong power of using government power for personal gain,” Cruz says. “Or we can nominate a proven conservative who has fought consistently for working men and women and to defend the Constitution. ” 10:17: Cruz says “tonight, this campaign enters a new phase. ” Cruz says a Trump nomination would be a disaster for Republicans. He says his campaign is the only campaign that has beaten, can beat, and will beat Donald Trump. Cruz proudly says he has beaten Trump three times. [But if a baseball teams plays five   sets against an opponent and loses 12 of them, is that something to brag about?] 10:15: “God Bless the Lone Star state,” Cruz says. “And God Bless the great state of Oklahoma. ” Senator Cruz victory party is at the redneck Country Club in Stafford. A podium and teleprompter are in place pic. twitter.   —   Phil Archer (@PhilArcher_KPRC) March 2, 2016,  10:13: Fox News’s Megyn Kelly and CNN’s Jeff Lord agree tonight. They both said Trump looked “presidential” during his press conference. [Tony Lee: As I said when Rubio first started with his juvenile attacks that his   on Twitter gleefully cheered, his attacks may have done him a huge disservice by turning off just enough   voters in the suburbs. It could have cost him Virginia and prevented him from meeting the 20% threshold in various states. What a bunch of geniuses in the “GOP smart set. ” I hope they are enjoying patting themselves on the head or whatever the equivalent is on Twitter tonight. Good job, guys. Way to go!] 10:06: Reporter mischaracterizes Trump’s “negotiable” comments. Trump says if he wants a   wall, he will negotiate it down to 48 feet to appease more people. When asked about establishment Republicans trying to throw monkey wrenches into the delegate selection process, Trump says he has “millions and millions of people” who are providing tremendous energy for Republicans. Trump says it would be undemocratic if GOP   (and desperate professional pundits who so desperately want to be “influencers” on the right) try to steal the nomination from him at the convention. Trump says “nobody is going to beat us” after GOP is unified. 10:02: Trump says he always liked Marco before he decided to go “hostile” and become a   Don Rickles. Trump says Rubio’s “ ” attacks hurt him. “He had a bad night,” Trump said, according to CNN, Fox. Trump says at least you can say that “Ted has won something. ” Trump says “our infrastructure” is going to hell after he says that Paul Ryan will “pay a price” if he doesn’t get along with him. Trump says even the media will be proud of him as president. He says “Hillary Clinton doesn’t have a clue” about rebuilding the country. Trump says Clinton’s record as Secretary of State was “abysmal. ” Trump says what Clinton did was a “criminal act” and if she is allowed to run, “it will be a sad day for this country” because “what she did was wrong. And other people have done far less than her and they paid a very, very big price. ” Worth nothing Clinton had not held a press conference for nearly 90 days: Clinton talks Super Tuesday, Trump and what happens if Sanders has a bad night in first gaggle in 88 days. https:  .   —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) March 1, 2016,  10:01: Trump says he will do great with   Hispanics and every other group because he will bring jobs back. 9:59: Trump says radical Islamic terrorism is a “big, big problem” and we need to “figure it out. ” Trump says Muslim migrants are “young” and “strong” and “powerful” and we have “no idea who they are. ” Trump says he has a heart so we will build a safe zone in Syria. He says he will loosen up the wallets of the Gulf States so they can pay for the safe zone. 9:56: “We are going to have a wall,” Trump says. Trump says he has thousands of Hispanic workers. Trump says the Mexican leaders are too smart for our leaders. Trump says Fox used the “ultimate word” because he was angry that someone dared to say that Mexico will pay for the wall. Trump says “100%. Mexico is going to pay. ” Trump talks about the country’s heroin problem and he says he’s going to “stop it” because “we’re going to have a strong border. ” He says people are going to come in and they are going to come in legally. 9:55: Trump says he’ll make deals as president that are good for the American people. He blasts Obama for using executive actions. Then he pivots to corporate inversion and says Obama doesn’t know how to make deals to bring money back to the United States. 9:49: Trump says he is “doing what’s right” when asked if he is moving to the center for the general election. He again praises Planned Parenthood for helping millions but says it should not receive taxpayer funding so long as it performs abortion. He says he is going to be “really good for women” and for “women’s health issues. ” Trump says he is more conservative than anybody on the military, on the border, on the wall, on getting rid of Obamacare, and getting rid of Common Core. Trump says he is a  . Trump says he feels “awfully good” when asked if he feels like the “presumptive nominee. ” Trump says he is watching the CNN people, the MSNBC people, and the Fox people. He quips that he is becoming very “diplomatic. ” He says the networks are declaring Rubio the “big loser” tonight. Trump congratulates Cruz for his Texas win, saying it was a “big get. ” Trump talks about actual jobs, companies that have left (ie. Carrier  ) but these don’t seem to be on Hillary’s radar (or teleprompter).  —   Jon Feere (@JonFeere) March 2, 2016,  9:47: Trump says “we are expanding the Republican Party” after calling Sen. Sasse ( ) a loser for saying he will support neither Trump nor Clinton. Trump says he is a “unifier. ” “Once we get all of this finished, I’m going to go after one person —  HIllary Clinton —  on the assumption that she will be allowed to run. ” Trump says it is going to be an “easy race. ” 9:46: Trump is holding a press conference after his victory speech. His campaign should say that is another way that differentiates him from Clinton, who went nearly 90 days without facing the press. 9:44: Trump says we can’t keep losing manufacturing jobs. Trump says we have “tremendous power” over everybody but we have politicians ” that truly, truly truly don’t know what they’re doing. ” Trump says he is “honored” by this evening’s results. 9:43: Stunning map of Trump’s “across the board” support: No Republican nominee has ever won all of the different states Donald Trump has https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Chris Cillizza (@TheFix) March 2, 2016,  9:40: Trump says this has been an “amazing evening. ” Trump congratulates Cruz for winning Texas for an “excellent win. ” Trump says he watched Clinton’s speech and says Clinton has been there for so long and if she hasn’t straightened it out, she won’t do so as president. Trump says making America great again is much better than “making America whole” again. Trump again, Trump says Rubio has had a “tough night” but says he is a “lightweight. ” Trump says special interests and the lobbyists who want “their little Senator” do what they want are going to spend $25 million to oppose Trump. Drudge’s take: Media will keep up urgency on Republican side until Florida  —    no matter what!  Ad revenue much needed. #SuperTuesday,  —   MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) March 2, 2016,  9:38: Christie declares Trump “the clear winner” tonight. He says tonight is the beginning of Donald Trump bringing the Republican Party together for a big victory in November. He says it is the beginning of Trump bringing the people together to allow America to win again. Christie says the goal is to prevent Clinton from winning the election. 9:37: May not be a good night for Rubio: Rubio is on the ”bubble” for getting ANY delegates in the following states  —   hovering at or below 20%   partial results:AL TX TN VT,  —   Alana Abramson (@aabramson) March 2, 2016,  Rubio may not only lose every race tonight, he could be shut out of delegates in five states by missing the 20% threshold. Amazing.  —   Taegan Goddard (@politicalwire) March 2, 2016,  9: 36: Fox News reporting Rick Scott will endorse Trump. People like Erick Erickson will be mad: If Rick Scott and Newt Gingrich endorse Trump, they’ll be continuing the trend of people with no other future in the party hitching to Trump,  —   Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) March 1, 2016,  9:35: MSNBC’s Chris Hayes says Rubio’s constituency may be the pundit   professionals and he lacks a natural constituency like  . 9:18: “Victory” speeches (equivalent of storming the court for beating the spread even though they got walloped) get  : Since none of the networks showed it, does anyone know if Rubio gave another victory speech?  —   Dan Pfeiffer (@danpfeiffer) March 2, 2016,  Rubio is giving a rousing victory speech. Who wants to tell him? #SuperTuesday,  —   Aly Keves (@alykeves) March 2, 2016,  I am perplexed as to why Rubio is giving a victory speech when he hasn’t won anything,  —   Betsy Woodruff (@woodruffbets) March 2, 2016,  I love this split screen of Rubio giving his   victory speech. pic. twitter.   —   Adam Smith (@asmith83) March 2, 2016,  Why is #Rubio giving another victory speech? He has yet to win anything.  —   John Cardillo (@johncardillo) March 2, 2016,  CNN isn’t even playing Rubio’s sad little   speech.  —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 2, 2016,  Scenes from Rubio rally:  —   @marcorubio tries to rally supporters by announcing that his great project to take down Trump is succeeding,  —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 2, 2016,  Protester raises sign saying ”you betrayed us” at @marcorubio rally,  —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 2, 2016,  This   poster will haunt your dreams  &gt pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 2, 2016,   —   @marcorubio tries to rally supporters by announcing that his great project to take down Trump is succeeding,  —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 2, 2016,  Tonight’s @marcorubio rally at Tropicana Equestrian Center. Staff confirms that Marco is not arriving on a horse pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) March 1, 2016,  9:13: OKLAHOMA: Sanders projected to win. 9:10: OKLAHOMA: Cruz projected to win. Rubio still has no wins on the board. Gives Cruz a powerful argument that he is the best   alternative. Rubio’s current position:VA: 2ndGA: 3rdVT: 3rdMA: 3rdOK: 3rdTX: 3rdTN: 3rdAL: 3rd,  —   Will McAvoy (@WillMcAvoyACN) March 2, 2016,  9:00: TEXAS: Clinton, Cruz Projected to Win, 8:55: Big numbers for Trump, Trump just dominating in southwest and southside VA  —   Rubio margins up north don’t appear to be big enough https:  .   —   Peter Hamby (@PeterHamby) March 2, 2016,  8:53: “What a super Tuesday,” Clinton says from Miami Florida right before the important 9 PM EST window. Clinton says she is so glad to be here with you in Florida. She congratulates Sanders on his “strong showing” and says she is grateful for everyone who voted for her. Clinton again repeats the line that American never stopped being great. She says we have to “make America whole. ” We have to “fill in what’s been hollowed out. ” Crowd chanting “USA, USA. ” Good stagecraft from Clinton’s campaign —  copying Trump (shows they are worried about Trump’s appeal). Clinton supporters waving American flags. Again calls for more love and kindness. Trump mocked Clinton earlier, asking what in the world she means when she talks about having to “make America whole again. ” Clinton is yelling about defending the rights of every single   group on the left. Clinton also pivots to Flint in a way and speaks about the city in a way that differentiates herself from Sanders ahead of Michigan’s primary. Clinton says it is clear tonight that the stakes in this election have never been higher and the rhetoric has never been lower. “Trying to divide America between us and them is wrong and we’re not going to let it work,” she says. 8:52: Arkansas update: AR Statewide Republican numbers latest: Trump: 32% Rubio 28% Cruz 28% #ARNews #SuperTuesday #ARpx #KATV7,  —   Angela Rachels (@arachels) March 2, 2016,  8:50: Coulter on Rubio’s establishment fans: In VA, Rubio crushing in all the districts where govt workers, govt contractors, think tank employees and lobbyists live.  —   Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) March 2, 2016,  FiveThirtyEight: “Surprise, surprise (OK, not really): Rubio has a Beltway fan club. In Virginia’s 8th congressional district, situated mostly inside the Washington Beltway, Rubio is currently crushing Trump 46 percent to 19 percent, by far his best showing anywhere in any primary in the country so far. The even better sign for Team Rubio: There’s a ton more votes in that part of Virginia to be reported, meaning that he’s likely to narrow his current 37 percent to 32 percent statewide deficit. ” 8:48: CNN also projects Trump will win Virginia: 8:40: Solid support from vets in Virginia: Underreported story: military veterans’ solid support for Trump. https:  .   —   Josh Kraushaar (@HotlineJosh) March 2, 2016,  8:35: Fox News projects Trump will win Virginia: Fox News Projects: @realDonaldTrump wins Virginia. #SuperTuesday,  —   Bill Hemmer (@BillHemmer) March 2, 2016,  It looks like Virginia Beach might save Trump from a loss to Rubio in Virginia https:  .  #SuperTuesday pic. twitter.   —   FiveThirtyEight (@FiveThirtyEight) March 2, 2016,  8:30: Clinton projected to win Arkansas. Trump up by four points in exit polls in Arkansas (Trump 34, Cruz 30, Rubio 25) 8:29: Breitbart’s Bob Price: Cruz expanding lead as more early votes come in. 8:26: Virginia: look at that Virginia map, courtesy of the NYT  —   purple is Rubio, red is Trumphttps:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Jon Ward (@jonward11) March 2, 2016,  8:22: First candidate since Dole to win Massachusetts and Alabama: Donald Trump is the first GOP presidential candidate to win primaries in both NH and Georgia since H. W. Bush 28 years ago. #SuperTuesday,  —   Chris Moody (@moody) March 2, 2016,  8:19: Interesting: Exit polls keep understating Trump’s eventual margins #quietDonald,  —   Jonathan Martin (@jmartNYT) March 2, 2016,  8:12: Cruz leading with Evangelicals in Oklahoma: In Oklahoma nearly 7 in 10 voters identify as white Evangelicals and they’re leaning towards @tedcruz #SuperTuesday pic. twitter.   —   Norah O’Donnell (@NorahODonnell) March 2, 2016,  8:10: Good numbers for Cruz in Oklahoma: UPDATE: @TedCruz leads in OK primary: https:  .  #SuperTuesday pic. twitter.   —   CBS News Politics (@CBSPolitics) March 2, 2016,  8:08: Trump dominating with voters who want the next president to be “not from the political establishment. ” ALABAMA: Trump: 64, TENNESEEE: Trump: 67, MASSACHUSETTS:  72, 8:03: MA Dems: Sanders leads Clinton by 6 according to exits. 8:02: Oklahoma exit polling: Cruz leads Trump by 5 in Oklahoma. Sanders leads Clinton by 5, 8:00: Winning, Winning, Winning: Donald Trump Projected to win ALABAMA, MASSACHUSETTS, TENNESSEE.  BREAKING: ABC projects Donald Trump will win Alabama, Massachusetts and Tennessee primaries, based on exit polls pic. twitter.   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) March 2, 2016,  Clinton Projected to win ALABAMA, TENNESSEE. 7:57: Clinton wins American Samoa: JUST IN: American Samoa Democratic Party says Hillary Clinton has won Democratic caucus. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   ABC News (@ABC) March 2, 2016,  7:50: Clinton at a BET rally. She is reportedly “pleased” at the early results: @HillaryClinton informed by aides about her wins in GA and VA and is ”pleased.” She’s currently at a BET forum. Continuing cvg on @NBCNews,  —   Kristen Welker (@kwelkernbc) March 2, 2016,  7:45: A Kasich win in Vermont would really make it tougher for the establishment to force him out as Joel points out: Big surprise from @JohnKasich.  If he wins VT, he changes the race. https:  .   —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 2, 2016,  7:40: Sanders talks process and reminds voters that these aren’t    elections and “we are going to win many hundreds of delegates. ” 7:38: Sanders again says this election is about “making a political revolution” instead of “electing a president. ” He says he won’t allow “the Donald Trumps of the world to divide us up. ” ”I am so proud to bring Vermont values all across this country,” says @BernieSanders at his #SuperTuesday rally. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) March 2, 2016,  7:36: Not a lot of Northern Virginia vote in yet: Be cautious of Trump’s 39% % lead in VA so far. Most of that is from western VA, but not a lot of   Northern Virginia yet.  —   Dave Wasserman (@Redistrict) March 2, 2016,  7:35: Virginia exit polls: Trump wins with evangelicals: Trump beat Cruz by 20% among Evangelicals in Virginia.  —   Joe Weisenthal (@TheStalwart) March 2, 2016,  7:30: Sanders says “it is great to be home” after trouncing Clinton in Vermont. He says he has been all over this country “but the truth is it is great and great to come home and see all my friends. ” He rails against the monied interests. 7:25: In Virginia, Trump wins with voters who want change while Rubio wins with voters who want a candidate who “shares my values. ” 7:20: Demographics expert Nate Cohn: First precincts reporting in Chesterfield County, GOP suburb of Richmond, gives Trump a 3 point edge. It’s a bellwether.  —   Nate Cohn (@Nate_Cohn) March 2, 2016,  7:18: Did Clinton violate election rules in MA? Bill Clinton came to campaign for his wife in Boston. And he may have violated Massachusetts election rules. https:  .   —   Matt Viser (@mviser) March 1, 2016,  7:15: Georgia Dems: Clinton wins black vote big Sanders on top with whites: Georgia Dem exit, Black:Clinton 83%Sanders 17% White:Sanders 53%Clinton 47%  —   Steve Kornacki (@SteveKornacki) March 2, 2016,  7:13: Virginia exit polls: DC suburbs in exit polls: Rubio 40Kasich 24Trump 18Cruz 13#thistown,  —   Benjy Sarlin (@BenjySarlin) March 2, 2016,  7:08: Gingrich on Cruz: . @newtgingrich: “@tedcruz is going to have a better argument after tonight. He’s going to have won some states. ” pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) March 1, 2016,  7:04: Trump at 40% in Georgia: Exit polls show Trump is at the   mark in Georgia. pic. twitter.  #gapol,  —   Greg Bluestein (@bluestein) March 2, 2016,  7:01: Exits in Virginia  —   CNN 34 Trump, 31% Rubio 31% Cruz 16%   7:00: Trump wins Georgia. Vermont and Virginia too close to call. Hillary wins Georgia and Virginia. Bernie wins Vermont.   6:46: Rubio is both lowering and raising expectations, Top Rubio adviser preparing donors for dismal Super Tuesday, Rubio Team Raising Expectations for Super Tuesday,   6:42: Late deciders by state, GOP voters who decided in the last few days: OK 34%VT 30%MA 30%AL 28%GA 28%VA 26%AR 22%TN 22%TX 14%  —   Steve Kornacki (@SteveKornacki) March 1, 2016,    6:40: Your handy guide to tonight’s poll closing times, Polling Close Times:Vermont 7:00pm (Eastern) Virginia 7:00pm (Eastern) Georgia 7:00pm (Eastern) Alabama: 8:00pm (Eastern) Massachusetts: 8:00pm (Eastern) Oklahoma: 8:00pm (Eastern) Tennessee: 8:00pm (Eastern) Arkansas: 8:30pm (Eastern) Texas: 9:00pm (Eastern) Minnesota: 9:00pm (Eastern) Alaska: 12:00 midnight (Eastern)   6:35: 72% of TN voters back Trump’s temporary Muslim ban. Exit poll: 72% of TN GOP primary voters support temporary ban on Muslims who aren’t US citizens from entering nation https:  .   —   Joey Garrison (@joeygarrison) March 1, 2016,    6:27: 6 in 10 Super Tuesday GOP voters approve of Trump’s temporary Muslim ban.   6:26: Rubio wins late deciders in Virginia, Fox News exit poll: Late Deciders (VIRGINIA) Rubio 38%Cruz 18%Kasich 17%Trump 15%  —   Nick Jacob (@nicktjacob) March 1, 2016,   6:08: More than half of GOP voters in SEC Primary states feel “betrayed” by GOP, per exit polling: 6:03: Ideology of Super Tuesday voters: Ideology thru Super Tuesday states. pic. twitter.   —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 1, 2016,  6:01: Georgia Republicans wan’t someone who can “bring change. ” Early exit poll: Most Georgia Republican voters want candidate who ”can bring change” https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) March 1, 2016,  6:00: Levin asks: Why does the Fox News Channel hate Ted Cruz?  —   Mark R. Levin (@marklevinshow) March 1, 2016,  5:55: DEMOCRATS: Obama’s policies most popular in Alabama, “where 68 percent of Democratic voters say they want to continue them. Sixty percent of voters in Georgia and Virginia say the same,” according to CBS. 5:50: 66% of GOP PRIMARY VOTERS made up their minds at least a month in advance while 22% did so in the last few days according to MSNBC’s exit polling. 5:46:  Majority of GOP primary voters angry at federal government: Majority of Texas Republican voters are ”angry” with federal gov’t, early exit poll shows: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) March 1, 2016,  5:45: Evangelical voters dominating in SEC Primary states: Evangelicals account for   in 10 voters in most Southern states today, per preliminary exit polls. #SuperTuesday https:  .   —   This Week (@ThisWeekABC) March 1, 2016,  5:41: Government spending most important issue to GA GOP Voters: Georgia GOP voters consider gov’t spending ”most important issue,” early exit poll shows: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) March 1, 2016,  5:37: Trump: Rubio should drop out if he doesn’t do well on Super Tuesday. 5:36: Exit polling from Texas:  n Texas, fewer than half of GOP voters  —   about four in 10  —   are looking for a political outsider, fewer than anywhere else. Nearly four in 10 in preliminary exit poll data also say it matters a great deal to them to support a candidate who shares their religious beliefs, and six in 10 are evangelicals.   say they’d be satisfied with Ted Cruz as the nominee, a high for him among all states in which we have exit polls  —   compared with nearly six in 10 for Rubio and less than half for Trump. That said,   of GOP primary voters in Texas want to build a wall along the entire U. S.  border, as Trump has suggested. 5:35: ABC News Exit polling: At least 60% of GOP primary voters support temporary Muslim ban: Muslims: One of Trump’s more controversial proposals continues to receive majority support in the GOP electorate. At least six in 10 GOP primary voters today support banning Muslims who are not U. S. citizens from entering the country, peaking at more than   in Alabama, Arkansas and Tennessee. That compares with 65 and 74 percent in New Hampshire and South Carolina, respectively. Immigration: On another controversial issue, immigration, anywhere about four in 10 voters in Virginia, Texas and Georgia, peaking at more than half in Alabama, favor deporting undocumented immigrants, as opposed to offering them a route to legal status. 5:25: Virginia Democrats: 60% (including 74% of black voters) want to continue Obama’s policies per NBC’s exit polling. 5:20: Exit polls: 50% of Republicans want someone from outside of the system while 40% want someone with “political experience. ” For Democrats, 80% want someone with “political experience” while 16% want an outsider. 5:19: CNN’s John King points out that Trump has the broadest range of supporters. 5:15: Exit polls: 50% of GOP primary voters in Texas “angry” and 41% dissatisfied. GA: 47% angry, 45% dissatisfied, VA: 36% angry, more just dissatisfied, Vermont: 37% angry,  —   First Four States: Iowa: 42% angry, New Hampshire: 39% angry, South Carolina: 40% angry, Nevada: 59% angry, 5:13: Kasich says there is “zero chance” he will be someone’s vice presidential pick. 5:11: Virginia primary ballot: Virginia GOP primary ballot has Rubio at the top  Trump buried in middle between Cruz and Gilmore (via @melkersen) pic. twitter.   —   Toby Harnden (@tobyharnden) March 1, 2016,  5:07: NBC’s Chuck Todd calls Rubio the establishment’s “only hope” against Trump. 4:55: The weak opposition from the GOP establishment and the establishment’s insistence that “viable” 2016 candidates embrace comprehensive amnesty legislation also fueled Trump’s rise: Axelrod seems to agree that O activism created enviro for Trump:  ”He is the antithesis to Obama in the race.” https:  .   —   Josh Kraushaar (@HotlineJosh) March 1, 2016,  4:50: Team Rubio doesn’t think so, even though a pollster on Fox News throughout the morning said Rubio’s numbers went down when he started to uncharacteristically go against his brand and unleashed juvenile attacks against Trump: WATCH: @JohnKasich: ”You will not beat Donald Trump by insulting him.” https:  .  https:  .   —   This Week (@ThisWeekABC) March 1, 2016,  Washington Post: The Rubio campaign made a tactical mistake by going into the gutter with Trump over the weekend. Again, this isn’t rocket science to those who aren’t career political   who love to be stroked on Twitter about how great their   “burns” are. So Keep mocking Trump for his spelling errors. 4:45: Sounds as confident as he is of winning his home state of Florida: Rubio today: ”Donald Trump has no chance of ever getting the delegates he needs to be the nominee.” via @InesdLC,  —   Rick Klein (@rickklein) March 1, 2016,  4:40: Trump told Kentucky crowd that Syrian refugees will not be coming to America. He says look at what has happened to Germany, Sweden, Brussels. It’s not going to happen to our country. Not. He says we’ll have safe zones over there but it’s not going to happen to our country. Trump says he will also bring the coal industry back and it is “ridiculous” we’re sending our coal to China and they are using it instead of America even though they are not even “cleaning” it. “The coal industry is going to make a very big comeback. ” He says Clinton does not have the “strength or the stamina” to be president. 4:35: Trump says he loves his “Make America Great Again” theme. He mocks Hillary for saying wanting to “make America whole. ” Trump asks, “what does that mean?” 4:31: Sanders supporters disrupt Trump event. Trump borrows a sign from the crowd after Bernie Sanders protesters are escorted out. pic. twitter.   —   Taylor Telford (@ttelford1883) March 1, 2016,  4:30: Trump holds up “Hispanics 4 Trump” sign during rally: After having some vocal protesters escorted out, Trump asked the audience to pass down a ”Hispanics 4 Trump” sign. pic. twitter.   —   Marjorie (@marjorie_kirk) March 1, 2016,  Trump takes ”Hispanics for Trump” sign from someone in the audience and holds it up  #wave3news #TrumpRally pic. twitter.   —   wave3news (@wave3news) March 1, 2016,  4:15: Trump says it takes guts to run for president because it’s not easy. He says after he talked about illegal immigration at his announcement speech, “it wouldn’t be a subject under consideration. ” Trump blasts Vicente Fox. And he says Fox is upset because he is not used to being told what to do. He says he will make great deals as president. Trump says he knows it doesn’t sound presidential but he will call the head of Carrier and say he will tax their products 35% if they move to Mexico. 4:05: Christie urges voters in Kentucky to vote for “Donald Trump” on Saturday. He says America needs a leader who will bring back jobs and stand up to ISIS. Christie says Trump’s opponents are “desperate” but “Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz are the Washington, D. C. twins” and we don’t need more politicians. 3:50: Ben Carson Calls for a Private Meeting with GOP Field to Address ‘Lack of Civility’ Ben Carson, concerned with the lack of civility, calls for a meeting of all 5 GOP campaigns pic. twitter.   —   Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) March 1, 2016,  3:29: Huge Kentucky crowd getting ready for Trump: Doors have opened for Trump’s 4pm Louisville rally. Crowd has to go through Secret Service Checkpoint. pic. twitter.   —   Michael McKay (@MichaelMcKay716) March 1, 2016,  Tasha Oldham, 44, of Louisville said she likes Trump because he speaks his mind. @heraldleader pic. twitter.   —   Michael McKay (@MichaelMcKay716) March 1, 2016,  Crowds are filling the convention center to hear from Donald Trump. He’s expected around 4. @LEX18News pic. twitter.   —   Breanna Gilroy (@BreannaLEX18) March 1, 2016,  Protesters getting ready too: Trump protestors set up outside Kentucky International Convention Center in #Louisville. @WDRBNews pic. twitter.   —   Josh Breslow (@JoshBreslowWDRB) March 1, 2016,  3:25: Clinton campaign doesn’t want voters in Colorado to participate in democracy? MSNBC dispatch says Hillary supporters wouldn’t tell Sanders supporters who called where to caucus in Colorado: https:  .   —   Corey Hutchins (@CoreyHutchins) March 1, 2016,  3:22: GOP turnout up even in Northern Virginia: Republican turnout is way up in Arlington as Trump signs proliferate across the county https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Arlington News (@ARLnowDOTcom) March 1, 2016,  As of 2 p. m. today, with five hours to go until polls close, the percentage of Arlington voters casting ballots in the Republican presidential primary has already exceeded the total from the 2008 GOP primary.   Super Tuesday turnout was 24 percent of registered voters in Arlington  —   9 percent Republican, 15 percent Democrat. [  …    ] One factor for the increased Republican turnout may be the presence of Donald Trump in the race. Supporters of the businessman and GOP frontrunner have been particularly prolific in placing signs around polling places in Arlington  —   so much so that Lindberg said the county elections office has received at least one complaint about the Woodmont polling station having too many Trump signs. 3:20: Haley Barbour, who epitomizes the GOP establishment, is reportedly leading Rubio’s convention delegate strategy. 3:13: Palin urges supporters to vote for Trump in Alaska: 3:05: This morning, Tom Brokaw said, “I’m in touch with my friends at Breitbart a lot, they’ve their own system going, all   they’re very smart. They know where their folks are and they play to what they see and find unacceptable  . ” Breitbart News was arguably the only outlet that took Trump’s potential candidacy seriously in January of 2015 and got the dynamics of this election cycle correct. On Morning Joe, Brokaw says ”I’m in touch with my friends at Breitbart”  …      —   Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) March 1, 2016,    3:01: Gingrich has said Kasich is like a “little brother” to him but has not endorsed him: Honored to have Speaker @newtgingrich on hand today as we campaigned in Virginia! pic. twitter.   —   John Kasich (@JohnKasich) March 1, 2016,  2:57: The same elites who look for every reason to criticize Tea Party conservatives for “violent” rhetoric: So @GovChristie’s punishment for endorsing @realDonaldTrump is that the GOP establishment fantasizes about his death.  “Elite” behavior.  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 1, 2016,  Real @NormColeman quote: “If Chris Christie were dead I’d say he’d be rolling in his grave after Trump’s comments [sic] about the KKK. ” @CNN,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) March 1, 2016,  2:53: Another new Rubio line: Rubio says he has message for ” ” Trump calling on him to drop out: ”I will campaign in all 50 states”  drive in pickup if I have to,  —   Ines de La Cuetara (@InesdLC) March 1, 2016,  2:48: McConnell walking back   comments: RE: NYT quoting him saying GOP would ”Drop (Trump) like a hot rock,” McConnell: ”I don’t remember saying anything like that to all of you”  —   Frank Thorp V (@frankthorpNBC) March 1, 2016,  2:46: Republicans much more excited than Democrats in every state: Hearing from a friend in Texas that they’re running out of ballots everywhere.  ”We expected a lot of people, but this is insane.”  —   Monica Crowley (@MonicaCrowley) March 1, 2016,  2:45: Hillary finally met the press: Super Tuesday: the first time in 88 days that Hillary Clinton has taken questions from her traveling press corps.  —   Abby D. Phillip (@abbydphillip) March 1, 2016,  2:42: National Nurses United getting out vote for Sanders in Massachusetts: Nurses getting out the vote today in Massachusetts for @BernieSanders #FeelTheBern #SuperTuesday pic. twitter.   —   NationalNursesUnited (@NationalNurses) March 1, 2016,  2:40: Interesting point about Trump voters: Many Trump voters herded into a single box labeled ”bigots” by smug Dems actually fit in other boxes, including one labeled ” ”  —   Ron Fournier (@ron_fournier) March 1, 2016,  2:35: Dr. Ben Carson will reportedly not drop out of the race even if he wins no delegates, according to The Hill. Total Ben Carson Super Tuesday TV spending: Not a penny. https:  .   —   Reid Wilson (@ConsultReid) March 1, 2016,    2:21: Trump goes on Twitter to blast Nikki Haley, who endorsed Rubio: The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Hailey!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 1, 2016,  2:20: Former Clinton Treasury Secretary Larry Summers worried the   Partnership trade deal will “collapse” under  a Trump presidency: Larry Summers warns that Donald Trump could endanger the TPP. https:  .   —   Matt Stoller (@matthewstoller) March 1, 2016,  2:15: Rubio now compares Trump to Jesse Ventura. He says Ventura “is am embarrassment” and Trump would be an “embarrassment” to America. 2:12: Black voters still demanding accountability from Clinton in a “tense exchange” on the trail: Here is a photo of Clinton’s interaction with the Somali American woman. pic. twitter.   —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) March 1, 2016,  At the end of her coffee shop stop, Clinton was confronted by a young Somali American woman about HRC’s past super predator comment.  —   Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) March 1, 2016,  One tense exchange, with a young woman who wanted to know how Clinton would be accountable to the black community. pic. twitter.   —   Erin Golden (@golden_erin) March 1, 2016,  2:11: Hillary deflects question about whether Trump should be disqualified because of his Sunday interview about David  : Hillary Clinton doesn’t say whether Trump’s comments about the KKK should disqualify him from the race: pic. twitter.   —   Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) March 1, 2016,  2:05: Wall Street Journal asks if Cruz has to win Texas to keep his campaign alive: Ted Cruz is asked, Do you have to win Texas? His response: pic. twitter.   —   Capital Journal (@WSJPolitics) March 1, 2016,  1:44  —   Polling issues reported in Georgia: Roughly 100 voters in northeast Atlanta’s   neighborhood experienced a bit of frustration Tuesday morning when they stood in line to vote in the presidential primary only to learn that the electronic voting machines weren’t working.   …     According to the precinct manager, the machines were programmed for the wrong precinct. So voters had a choice. They could either stay and vote on paper or they could come back later. 1:36  —   Headline: “Goldman Sachs puts banker linked to Donald Trump on leave. ” 1:23  —   Wow, 26% of Americans must be pretty heartless. New Poll: 74% of Americans want a candidate who’s committed to reducing hunger in America https:  .  #SuperTuesday #NoKidHungry,  —   No Kid Hungry (@nokidhungry) March 1, 2016,  1:21  —   Cruz tells Mike Gallagher Rubio has no path to victory: Ted Cruz is calling on Marco Rubio to suspend his campaign after Super Tuesday, contending that the Florida senator will have no realistic path to the nomination after roughly a dozen states vote Tuesday. “He is a very talented individual, but Marco does not have any viable path whatsoever to beat Donald Trump,” the Texas senator told conservative radio host Mike Gallagher on Tuesday. “In the first four states, he has gone   . He has not won a state. ” 1:17  —   Paul Ryan weighs in on Super Tuesday: House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( .) has clearly had it with Donald Trump. On a day in which a dozen states hold presidential contests, Ryan felt he had no choice but to denounce the GOP   for equivocating on whether to accept support from white supremacists. “This party does not prey on people’s prejudices,” Ryan told reporters Tuesday, referencing Trump in everything but name. Ryan is obviously frustrated he even has to point out that a presidential candidate in his party shouldn’t accept support from white supremacists. But we’d posit Ryan’s frustration stems not just from what Trump says but also from how powerless Ryan knows he is to stop Trump, both from saying these kinds of things and from potentially winning the nomination. 1:02  —   Team Kasich touting    Ohio victory versus Trump: 17 points, Mr. Trump. 17 points. pic. twitter.   —   John Kasich (@JohnKasich) March 1, 2016,  12:49  —   Bloomberg does some number crunching on Trump’s media monopoly strategy: All told, Trump’s     punch effectively deflated Rubio’s hopes of dominating the   Tuesday media narrative following his feisty debate performance. Whereas the    battle did gain some traction on Friday, with nearly 500 news headlines mentioning both candidates, it was undercut by the 300 or so news stories with Christie in the headline. Almost all related to his surprise endorsement. By Saturday, Christie stories outpaced   headlines. 12:47  —   Trump University fraud lawsuit will proceed:   Appeals court gives @AGSchneiderman’s fraud suit against @realDonaldTrump and Trump U a green light https:  .   —   Dareh Gregorian (@darehgregorian) March 1, 2016,  12:32  —   Some media gains for Rubio the insult comic. Lawrence O’Donnell warns it could backfire: Marco Rubio’s TV coverage has increased since copying Trump’s ”insult campaigning” style. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Frank Luntz (@FrankLuntz) March 1, 2016,  . @marcorubio Remember the media rule: if you do 5 min of jokes they’ll pretend that’s all you said even if you talk policy for next 30 min.  —   Lawrence O’Donnell (@Lawrence) March 1, 2016,  12:31  —   Trump campaigning in Columbus, OH with Christie. Donald Trump here with Gov. Christie  —   and here’s that music I was tweeting about. Quite a splash @wkyc @_AmyHansen pic. twitter.   —   Andrew Horansky (@WKYCAndrewH) March 1, 2016,  12:23  —   Ted Cruz casts his vote: Ted Cruz voting at West Gray polling location. Says he is best candidate to beat Trump. pic. twitter.   —   Tim Wetzel (@KHOUTim) March 1, 2016,  Ted Cruz checking in to vote for Ted Cruz in Houston pic. twitter.   —   Matt Flegenheimer (@mattfleg) March 1, 2016,  12:20  —   Drudge picks up on a local news report that says some votes are being switched over to Rubio in Texas: REPORT: TRUMP VOTES SWITCHED TO RUBIO IN TX  …     https:  .   —   DRUDGE REPORT (@DRUDGE_REPORT) March 1, 2016,  12:16  —   Politicos torn on whether to work for Trump campaign. 3 @AFPhq staffers turned down Trump jobs in recent weeks: ”concerned about what that would do to their reputations.” https:  .   —   Kenneth P. Vogel (@kenvogel) March 1, 2016,  12:05  —   NYT writer who joked about Trump assassination warns: he’ll never consolidate support among “elite conservatives”! The forces that Trump is pandering   will prevent him from ever consolidating elite conservatives. Period.  —   Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) March 1, 2016,  12:02  —   Tim Miller, former Jeb Communications Director, promises to send “presents” if anyone proves they voted against Trump today. [archive] Hi friends. If you live in Alaska, Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Texas, Tennessee, Vermont, or Virginia please for the love of God go vote in the Republican primary against Trump. If you are not a Republican operative and you send me a pic of you voting I will send you a present. If you are from one of those states please share this. ‪#‎nevertrump‬ 11:58  —   Newt Gingrich shows up at a Kasich event. Newt at a Kasich event in Virginia   …     just a friendly visit? https:  .   —   Henry J. Gomez (@HenryJGomez) March 1, 2016,  11:50  —   GOP pressure mounting on Carson: EXCLUSIVE: Carson campaign says ”we clearly don’t know” a path to victory https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Washington Examiner (@dcexaminer) March 1, 2016,  11:43  —   Stop Trump, the Nazi. Sign outside Ted Cruz’s polling place in Houston pic. twitter.   —   Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) March 1, 2016,  11:42  —   Big turnout in Virginia precinct. Poll site in Alexandria, VA seeing 118 voters per hour. Up from previous primaries. @cbsbaltimore #SuperTuesday #WJZ pic. twitter.   —   Marcus Washington (@WJZMarcus) March 1, 2016,  11:30  —   From Roger Stone  Ed Martin: “How the GOP insiders plan to steal the nomination from Trump. ” Surely the party pros know that a nomination wrenched from the hands of Donald Trump would be worthless but they don’t care. The ruling elite that has dominated the party would rather have globalist Hillary Clinton than the uncontrollable nationalist Donald Trump. The idea of a president not beholden to the ruling elite is more than they can stand. 11:18  —   Freudian slip from MSNBC: Hey @chrislhayes  @msnbc I think  mislabeling @marcorubio a Democrat, is an insult to all Democrats. pic. twitter.   —   Tim² (@TCBrownII) March 1, 2016,  11:09  —   HuffPost home page: “HURRICANE DONALD” 10:57  —   In the Real Clear Politics poll of national polls, Trump’s average is just   below his   high of 36. 5%. And this is after a week of having kitchen sinks hurled at him by the entire DC   Establishment Complex.   10:50  —   Rubio  —   Obama Connection,    10:09  —   Ohio farmer spells out “No Trump” using cow manure. “NO TRUMP” Ohio farmer expresses his message about Donald Trump via cow manure. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) March 1, 2016,    10:08  —   Trump earns same support nationally as Cruz and Rubio combined, Ceiling. Trump earns same support of Cruz and Rubio combined. pic. twitter.   —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) March 1, 2016,    9:46  —   CNN Poll: Sanders beats everyone Hillary loses to  Cruz and Rubio, Bernie 57  —   Cruz 40, Bernie 55  —   Trump 43, Bernie 53  —   Rubio 45,   9:33  —   CNN Poll: Trump loses to Hillary Cruz and Rubio win. Trump 44  —   Hillary 52, Cruz 49  —   Hillary 48, Rubio 50  —   Hillary 47,   9:07   continues to push Third Party.  —   Can we convince the Constitution Party to delay their April convention? We may need their help.  —   Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) March 1, 2016,   8:54  —   Democrat: Latest Real Clear Politics’ average of Super Tuesday polls (unless otherwise noted) Virginia  —   Clinton +21. 5, Texas  —   Clinton +30. 3, Georgia  —   Clinton +37, Massachusetts  —   Clinton +6. 7, Oklahoma  —   Clinton +2. 0, Alabama  —   Clinton +48 in latest polls ( ) Tennessee  —   Clinton +26. 0, Arkansas  —   Clinton +28. 5, Minnesota  —   Clinton +34 in latest poll ( ) Vermont  —   Sanders +75 (not a typo) Colorado  —   Clinton +28 in latest poll ( )   8:41  —   GOP: Latest Real Clear Politics’ average of Super Tuesday polls (unless otherwise noted) Virginia  —   Trump +14. 5, Texas  —   Cruz +9, Georgia  —   Trump +13. 8, Massachusetts  —   Trump +26. 8, Oklahoma  —   Trump +11. 4, Alabama  —   Trump +17. 7, Tennessee  —   Trump +18 in latest poll ( ) Arkansas  —   Cruz +4 in latest poll ( ) Minnesota  —   Rubio +2 in latest poll ( ) Alaska  —   Trump +4 in latest poll ( ) Vermont  —   Trump +15 in latest poll ( )   8:38  —   NH paper retracts Christie endorsement over Trump endorsement: “Boy, were we wrong. ” The New Hampshire   would rather look weak and foolish to its readers than lose face with the media and political elite.   8:32  —   Poll closing times courtesy of  Mike Flynn. Poll closing times (all eastern) 7 pm: AL, GA, VT, VA. 8 pm: MA, OK, TN. 8:30 pm: AR. 9 pm: TX, MN. Alaska will be after midnight eastern,   8:30  —   Donald Trump and Hillary are predicted to all but sew up their respective nominations tonight.