Members of the Electoral College who had signed a letter asking for an intelligence briefing about alleged Russian meddling in the U. S. presidential election will not receive one before casting their votes for the next president on Monday. [NPR sent out a tweet indicating the request for the intelligence briefing from 54 electors had been nullified.  #Breaking: Sources tell NPR’s @NPRKelly that electors in the Electoral College will not receive an intelligence briefing.  —   NPR (@NPR) December 16, 2016,  The letter originally had the signatures of 10 electors on it and was the work of House Minoriy Leader Nancy Pelosi’s daughter Christine Pelos. The sole Republican to sign the letter was Chris Suprun of Texas, who has also been the only “faithless” Republican elector to publicly declare and pledge that he will not to vote for   Donald Trump on Monday. The letter was signed by Christine Pelosi, Chris Suprun, Anita Bonds, Bev Hollingworth, Michael Baca, Dudley Dudley, Terie Norelli, Clay Pell, Carol   and Courtney Watson. Many on the left allege Russia and President Vladimir Putin helped elevate Trump’s campaign, which he has vigorously rejected: If Russia, or some other entity, was hacking, why did the White House wait so long to act? Why did they only complain after Hillary lost?  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 15, 2016,  Can you imagine if the election results were the opposite and WE tried to play the   card. It would be called conspiracy theory!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 12, 2016,  WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has declared that Russia was not the source of the leaked DNC and Hillary Clinton emails. However, President Barack Obama, the CIA and FBI have all maintained it was their Cold War nemesis behind the leaks, which included devastating revelations about key leaders in the Democratic Party. President Obama used the occasion of his last press conference of the year to drive the point again and to criticize Russia and President Vladimir Putin saying, “the Russians were responsible for hacking the DNC and, as a consequence, it’s important to review elements of that and prevent that interference in the future. This was not a complicated espionage scheme. It just took off —  and that concerns me. ” While there has been no solid evidence to support claims that Russia interfered with the presidential election, it was the Obama administration that was found responsible for meddling with elections in Israel and failing to remove Prime Minister Benjamin “Bibi” Netanyahu last year. As Breitbart Senior    Joel B. Pollak pointed out: “In 2015, the Obama administration made a strenuous and     effort to swing the Israeli elections toward the opposition and away from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The State Department gave $300, 000 to a ‘ ’ Israeli group, which then paid political activists whose goal was to unseat Netanyahu. ” Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter and Periscope: @AdelleNaz