Republican nominee for president Donald J. Trump is making a brief trip to meet top government officials in Mexico on Wednesday, just prior to his anticipated speech on immigration at the Phoenix Convention Center. [I have accepted the invitation of President Enrique Pena Nieto, of Mexico, and look very much forward to meeting him tomorrow.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 31, 2016,   Mexico’s president has confirmed the meeting. El Señor @realDonaldTrump ha aceptado esta invitación y se reunirá mañana en privado con el Presidente @EPN.  —   Presidencia México (@PresidenciaMX) August 31, 2016,  Earlier, The Washington Post reported: Donald Trump is considering jetting to Mexico City on Wednesday for a meeting with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, just hours before he delivers a   speech in Arizona to clarify his views on immigration policy, according to people in the United States and Mexico familiar with the discussions. The possibility, which was hatched in recent days by Trump and his campaign advisers, comes after Trump has wavered for weeks on whether he would continue to hold his   positions on the central and incendiary issue of his campaign, in particular his call to deport an estimated 11 million immigrants who are living in the United States illegally. The people informed of Trump’s plans spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity surrounding the matter. They said late Tuesday that talks between the Trump campaign and Mexican officials were ongoing, with Trump interested in going but logistics and security concerns still being sorted out. The Mexican president, Enrique Peña Nieto, softened his hard line on Trump this month, and said he would meet with the New York City developer, whom he has likened to Adolf Hitler. In March, Peño Nieta told a newspaper interviewer that Trump was using the same kid of populist tactics that brought Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini to power. Peña Nieto backtracked in June, saying he was only referring to Trump’s tone. In May, former Mexican president Vicente Fox apologized in an exclusive interview with Breitbart News. Earlier, Fox had said he would not pay for Trump’s “fucking wall” and called Trump “Ignorant   …     crazy   …     egocentric   …     nasty   …     [a] false prophet. ”  