In a   interview with Rolling Stone,   Snoop Dogg shared his thoughts on police brutality, his upcoming TV show with Martha Stewart and the   tirade he posted to social media earlier this summer in which he blasted Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. [“How could we have someone as reckless as him running our country?” the    rapper and marijuana entrepreneur told the outlet.  “I been around for a long time. I seen Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, Bushes, Clintons. And I never seen a motherf*cker like him,” he added. Snoop ripped Trump in a video posted to his Instagram account in July, shortly after the Republican National Convention. “We ain’t voting for your punk ass,” the rapper says in the video as he listens to rapper YG’s song “F*ck Donald Trump. ” “Go get you a new hairdo, b*tch ass n*gga. ” Snoop has made his presidential preference known for some time in May 2015, the rapper endorsed Hillary Clinton for president, telling Bravo’s Andy Cohen that he would “love to see a woman in office. ” In July, the California rapper led a march for peace to the Los Angeles Police Department’s headquarters, where he held a joint press conference with Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and LAPD Police Chief Charlie Beck. “I never really had respect or understanding of the police until I got older and realized that most police officers are humans, too,” Snoop told Rolling Stone of the event. “But that day was about saying, “We aren’t going to be done like this anymore by you. When there’s an incident with a civilian, we need to make sure everyone makes it home safely  —   not just the officer. ” “Every day of our lives, this is what we’ve been going through with the police,” he continued. “Getting beat, getting pulled over for nothing, getting harassed, getting killed. All that shit been going on for years, but now there’s cameras and now they’re saying everybody’s woke. No, we’ve been woke. ” Last month, VH1 announced a   weekly series called Martha  Snoop’s Dinner Party, which will see Stewart and Snoop cooking and hosting dinner parties for their famous friends. When asked what viewers can expect to see on his celebrity cooking show, Snoop said, “A little bit of food, drinkin’ and maybe some of that   in the air  —   depends on the network!” Snoop is also   Mary + Jane, a   comedy for MTV. The Doggfather is currently on tour with fellow   devotee Wiz Khalifa. The duo’s “High Road Tour” has seen its fair share of controversy. Last month, more than two dozen concertgoers were treated for alcohol poisoning during a New York concert. A week before that incident, some 42 people were injured after a metal barrier collapsed while Snoop and Wiz Khalifa were on stage performing in Camden, New Jersey.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson