An 18 year old Austrian woman was “rushed to hospital” in the early hours of this morning after a drink with an Afghan stranger she met on a train turned into a sex attack. [Private security staff in Vienna’s Prater park rushed to the aid of a young woman in distress this morning around 02:30 o’clock after they heard cries for help. The    victim had been raped on a park bench by a    asylum seeker from Afghanistan, who is now in police custody.  The woman had met the man while on the train into central Vienna. Austria’s Krone newspaper replicated part of the police report, in which the victim said: “We got talking and decided to buy some alcohol to drink at the Prater park. We then sat down on the main avenue through the park on a bench”. The man later became violent and attacked the woman from behind, raping her until she was able to escape and call for help, “screaming and crying”. It was at this point the private security guards who patrol the park came to the woman’s aid, and detained the 21 year old migrant until police could arrive. At the time of his arrest, the man was found to be carrying a quantity of forged money, and marijuana. He is being kept in   custody. Home of the famous Ferris wheel featured in the classic 1949   The Third Man, Vienna’s Prater park is a major tourist attraction for the city. The rape of a young woman in a popular nightspot without security realising until after her escape from the assailant will likely cause concern in the city, especially following the recent migrant rape attacks in a number of European cities on new year’s eve. Hundreds of women have reported sex assaults and rapes by thousands of men in attacks which were, it is claimed, initially covered up by European media and police. Since the abuses became public knowledge, many women have come forward not only to police but also to the media to share their stories. Breitbart London reported on some of these stories after breaking the Cologne attacks to the English speaking world.    Annika said: “It was scary. Mainly because a nobody helped. I feel so dirty. So used, “They all looked foreign. They managed to separate us in the crowd and got close to us  …     we tried to fight off their hands  …    . everywhere I looked I saw girls crying and being comforted”.  