Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos sat down with Dave Rubin of The Rubin Report this week to discuss Donald Trump, Bernie Sanders and the growing army of cultural libertarians.[  On the topic of Bernie Sanders, Yiannopoulos questioned the assumption that he is a “nice guy. ” “People think Bernie Sanders is nice. I don’t get it  …    is he a nice guy? No, he wants socialism in America. It’s poisonous, ugly, oppressive, political philosophy that has made people suffer everywhere that it’s been tried. ” Yiannopoulos claimed that the end of social justice culture may be near: “If they break this time, they are losing with the full support of politicians, the media, and academia. If people rise up and say this social justice thing, this language policing, this political correctness, safe spaces, trigger warnings, microaggressions  —   this stuff is horsesh*t  …    . If enough people smash its stranglehold on the public square, it will never recover,” Yiannopoulos claimed. “It will never come back like this again because it will lose at the height of its powers. It will lose in its strongest possible form. ” “Social justice cannot get any stronger than it is now. It’s at the peak of its powers and it is losing. It’s losing because people want freedom. they want to be able to do, say, think, be, play, and read anything,” Yiannopoulos said.  “They have the faith in themselves and in other people that they are able to make the best judgements for themselves on what they believe in. They don’t need to be told how to speak. They don’t need to be told which books to read. They don’t need to be told which video games are dangerous. They don’t need to be told any of these things. They don’t be instructed and lectured to by politicians, they don’t need to be badgered and hectored by feminists, and they don’t need to be lied to by journalists. When pressed by Rubin about the role of emotion in cultural libertarianism, Yiannopoulos made clear that “cultural libertarianism is not about feeling. Cultural libertarianism is a response to feelings over facts. The defining characteristic of cultural libertarianism is the rigorous adherence to   policy making, and   beliefs. And a rigorous insistence on classical liberalism. It has very little do with feelings. It has a lot to do with fun. ” Yiannopoulos’ closing argument affirmed the importance of individualism and personal liberties: “What is behind all of this, the heart of all of this, is that rejection, that fundamental rejection of the idea that somebody else knows better than I do how I should live my life. ” Tom Ciccotta writes about Freedom of Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta.