The Council on   Relations (CAIR) A   Islamic advocacy group that fancies itself a civil rights organization, has called for Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump to apologize after a Muslim woman was kicked out of one of his rallies in South Carolina Friday night. [Rose Hamid, the Muslim woman who attended the Trump rally, was seemingly deliberately provocative in wearing a yellow star reminiscent of the ones mandated for Jews in Nazi Germany. She also wore a shirt that read, “Salam, I come in peace. ”  While being interviewed by CNN, Hamid expressed her assumption that “Trump supporters probably never met a Muslim. ” “So I figured that I’d give them the opportunity to meet one,” she added. “The people who Trump influenced were really nasty. ” Notably, the CNN interviewer did not ask Hamid why she wore a yellow star, or if she was trying to equate the treatment of Muslims in America with what Jews faced under the Third Reich. Hamid was joined by several other activists, who also wore yellow stars in whitewashing the Holocaust. When Trump spoke about the Syrian refugee crisis, she and others stood in protest of his remarks. “He refuses to say the name,” Trump said of President Obama’s refusal to use the term “Islamic terrorism. ” He added, “If you don’t say the name, you’re never going to solve the problem. ” This statement apparently set off the protesters with fury, causing a “commotion” among them, The Washington Post reports. They, along with Hamid, then got ejected from the rally. Nihad Awad, CAIR’s executive director and an avowed Hamas supporter, shamed Trump for his security’s removal of Hamid. “The image of a Muslim woman being abused and ejected from a political rally sends a chilling message to American Muslims and to all those who value our nation’s traditions of religious diversity and civic participation,” said Awad in a statement to the press. “Donald Trump should issue a public apology to the Muslim woman kicked out of his rally and make a clear statement that American Muslims are welcome as fellow citizens and as participants in the nation’s political process. ” A recent FBI chart uncovered through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request found CAIR to be a   organization. The group was listed as an unindicted   in the Holy Land Foundation trial —  the largest terrorism financing case in American history.