An   lawyer and editor of a popular legal website is calling on all black jurors across the country to automatically vote to free any black person accused of murdering or committing a crime against a white person despite the evidence. [Elie Mystal, an editor and contributor to the law blog Above The Law, posted a December 7 article urging all black Americans who end up on juries to engage in “jury nullification” by automatically voting to acquit all blacks accused of crimes, especially that of murder, against white victims and to do so no matter how much evidence is brought to bear against the suspect.  Mystal justified this lawlessness by claiming that “  live in a world where the police can murder us and get away with it. ” “There is no justice for black people. And yet violently revolting against the system will get us nowhere,” he added. This, Mystal says, is reason enough to work against the legal system in all areas. Maybe it’s time for black people to use the same tool white people have been using to defy a system they do not consent to: jury nullification. White juries regularly refuse to convict or indict cops for murder. White juries refuse to convict vigilantes who murder black children. White juries refuse to convict other white people for property crimes. White juries act like the law is just a guideline and their personal morality (or lack thereof) should be controlling. “Maybe it’s time minorities got in the game?” Mystal added. The legal analyst and lawyer went on to insist that black jurors should refuse to vote to convict any black suspect no matter the crime, including murder, if it is committed against a white person, especially a white man. Seeming to realize that voting to free obviously guilty murderers based on the race of the victim is a horrendous concept, Mystal insisted that it is the only way to “fix” the system. Murder?   …     what the hell do you think is happening to black people out here? What the hell do you think we’re complaining about when your cops shoot us or choke us? Acquit. Don’t throw “murder” at me like it’s some kind of moral fault line where the risk of letting one go is too great. Black people ARE BEING MURDERED, and the system isn’t doing a damn thing to hold their killers accountable. Sorry I’m not sorry if this protest idea would put the shoe on the other foot for a change. Mystal goes on to call whites who have had a crime committed against them or who have been murdered a “purported ‘victim’” and says blacks have no responsibility to help any white person “achieve justice. ” Mystal hyperbolically added that freeing obviously guilty criminals would “gum up the system” and force people to notice the plight of blacks. “White people would lose their s**t, that’s what would happen,” Mystal continues in his screed. “Suddenly, The New York Times would pull reporters off the ‘understanding Trump voters’ beat and you’d start seeing stories like ‘Hmm  …     It Appears Negros Have Some Grievances Too. ’” “White juries are using jury nullification to protect cops,” Mystal proclaims in conclusion. “But the door swings both ways. It’s time for us to push back. Civil disobedience, when used in a targeted fashion, is a powerful force. ” In the end, as far as Elie Mystal is concerned, a few murdered white people who never get justice and their killers allowed to walk free, is a small price to pay to satisfy the Black Lives Matter agenda. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.