A winter snowstorm can be serene. It can be lovely. It can be invigorating. And it can be an unexpected respite from the daily hustle. Tuesday’s storm was none of those things. It was a big sloppy mess of sleet and snow, marked by fierce winds and falling temperatures that threatened to turn wet roads and sidewalks into slick sheets of ice. At least that was the case in the major coastal cities of the Northeast, where fears of a   blizzard dissolved into a slushy mix of rain, snow and sleet. New York City and the region did not come to a halt under a blanket of snow. Instead, they skidded through the day in a muck of ice and slush. “What a mess,” said Soo Becchina, a   teacher, from Oceanside, N. Y. on Long Island. “When I was shoveling all I kept thinking was how wet and heavy the snow was. It’s like getting a slushy from   without the straw, red coloring and cup. ” There were reasons to be concerned on Monday night as two powerful weather systems  —   one coming out of the Midwest and the other moving up from the southeast  —   were set on a collision course. Some models showed that as much as two feet of snow would fall in the city. Governors and mayors in the metropolitan region rushed to the microphones to issue sweeping warnings and declare states of emergency. In Connecticut, a travel ban was put in place, ordering all cars off the roads by 5 a. m. Subway service in New York City was curtailed, with the Metropolitan Transportation Agency ordering all aboveground tracks and stations closed.   trains stopped running. The buses in New Jersey sat idle. Schools were closed, museums shuttered and concerts canceled. (On Broadway, however, the show went on and theaters were open Tuesday night.) Thousands of flights were canceled. Tens of thousands of people lost power as high winds and heavy snow downed lines. But as with any forecasts involving snow near the coast, there was always a caveat: the   divide. If the storm set up a good distance off shore, New York and the rest of the coast would be walloped. A few miles to the west and it would deliver more rain and sleet than snow. “The storm tracked closer to the coast than previously forecast and brought warmer air with it,” said Joe Pollina, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. “Mother Nature is an unpredictable lady,” Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York said at a news conference Tuesday. While the focus overnight was on the city and Long Island, Mr. Cuomo shifted resources upstate as it became clear that the Southern Tier would be harder hit. He announced a full travel ban on Interstate 84 from the Pennsylvania border to the Connecticut border on Tuesday afternoon. The heaviest snowfall was expected near the Interstate 81 corridor of Pennsylvania and in the Hudson Valley of New York, approaching two feet in some places. Northern Connecticut and parts of Massachusetts and New Hampshire were also expected to get significant snow. Some towns and communities were left buried in snow, like   Pa. Tony Brooks, vice chairman of the City Council, said that by midafternoon Tuesday, they had been buried in more than two feet of snow, the most of any storm since 1996. He said that the city was at an “absolute standstill” and that the only people on the streets were college students who were enjoying the snow. “There is not a soul on the street except college students,” he said. By early afternoon, snow was falling fast and furiously around Boston, where 12 inches was expected. While that was some 6 inches below what had been forecast, Gov. Charlie Baker repeated warnings for commuters to stay home. “We’ve seen the snowfall pick up,” Mr. Baker said at an early afternoon press briefing. “Most places are now seeing somewhere between 2 and 4 inches per hour. ” Power outages were beginning to tick upward, with 63, 000 reported in the state by early evening. Mr. Pollina, of the National Weather Service, also warned that even in those places with only a few inches of snow, like New York City, any liquid on the ground would turn to ice overnight. Temperatures in New York were expected to hover in the teens after nightfall and were not likely to rise above freezing on Wednesday. Kim Buttrick of the National Weather Service in Taunton, Mass. said that people tend to focus only on the snow and miss other dangers, including the wind. The eastern coast of Massachusetts could get wind gusts of over 50 miles per hour during the storm, she said Nantucket and outer Cape Cod could get gusts of up to 65 m. p. h. “That’s   conditions,” Ms. Buttrick said. Forecasters are expecting moderate coastal flooding in New England. “You have waves building off shore,” Ms. Buttrick said. “This storm will pound the coast, especially for our   and   shore lines. There’ll be beach erosion, some flooding of roadways, possible damage to marinas, docks and piers. ” Even though the storm failed to deliver heavy snow, in some places, officials continued to urge people to stay home, if possible. “It’s a good day to make brownies,” said Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut. But once that was done, what joys were left when the precipitation was more ice than snow and the wind could make even adults tear up? “Right now there has been no pleasure,” said Michael Weiss of Syosset, N. Y. on Long Island. He works in Manhattan but was home with his wife, two daughters  —   ages 9 and 11  —   and their    hound mix named Cody. “So far I have gotten lots of email from work. I made breakfast. Shoveled the front and back steps and walked the dog around the neighborhood,” he said. “Hopefully, later I will be able to go out with the kids and make an iceman. ”