CNN’s editors selectively edited a video report about   pundit Van Jones ordering his GOP female colleague Kayleigh McEnany to “back off. ”[The edit by CNN led viewers to believe that McEnany had incorrectly accused Jones of talking about interning Muslims.  In fact, the full video shows that Jones did make a false claim about newly elected President Donald J. Trump wanting to “intern” Muslims.  The skew in favor of Jones come as he uses his CNN perch to promote national protests against the Nov. 8 election result, for example, by describing the results as a white racist “whitelash. ” The selectively edited video came from CNN in both an article and a Tweet. “You need to back off”: Van Jones, Trump supporter clash https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CNN (@CNN) November 10, 2016, CNN’s article   the exchange this way: CNN’s Van Jones exchanged hot words with Kayleigh McEnany on Wednesday night as the Trump supporter argued Jones ought to repudiate fears among protesters that a Trump administration would create camps for illegal immigrants. “You should correct that fear,” said McEnany. “Donald Trump has never proposed internment camps. You have to correct that fear. ” “You need to back off,” Jones fired back. “You need to have a little bit of empathy and understanding for people who are afraid because your candidate has been one of the most explosively provocative candidates in the history of our country. ” “There is a price to be paid for that,” he added. As McEnany sought to interrupt Jones, CNN’s Anderson Cooper jumped in, telling her to “let him finish. ” “I am not finished,” said Jones, his voice rising. “I am not going to be talked over tonight, I am not. ” The CNN audience watching the video in the tweet and article never hear Van Jones discuss internment  —   because CNN’s editors clipped out Jones’ comments from a few seconds prior to clip. The full video shows Jones did discuss internment for Muslims, saying in the full video at 7:14pm. “If you talk to the actual people at the base, here is what you hear. Terror. Terrified Latinos. Terrified Muslims. I had a Muslim mother asking me, ‘Should I leave the country? Are they going intern us?” The full video —  not included in the tweet or article by CNN —  can be seen here: Jones has a long history of racial invective and incendiary comments prior to the November 2008 election of President Barack Obama. Before he briefly served as a “green energy czar” in the Obama administration, Jones helped found leftist organizations, such as Color of Change. He was also a leader in the communist revolutionary organization, Standing Together to Organize a Revolutionary Movement, or STORM, who openly discussed using “agitation and propaganda” techniques, according to a publication about the group called Reclaiming Revolution: (CPWG) formed in 1999, was STORM’s primary space for promoting revolutionary cultural work and popularizing the organization’s line. This Work Group included a poet, a DJ, two MC’  and a graphic designer. Its main objective was “to put a match to the fuse of our generation’s revolutionary imagination. ” CPWG’s program had four goals, . 1)  to nurture new revolutionary art and artists, . 2)  to produce street level agitation and propaganda, . 3)  to bring cultural workers into political action and, . 4)  to build networks among revolutionary cultural workers. In 2010, Jones began his move to the establishment and became a “senior fellow” at John Podesta’s Center for American Progress. He joined their “Green Opportunity Initiative. ” One of Joan’s mentors is Eric Mann, the 1960s radical who is the grandfather of the Black Lives Matter movement. Van Jones also has connections to the Black Lives Matter movement founder Alicia Garza. She was was the executive director of a group called Power, which incorporated Jones’ Storm organization. In 2013, revolutionary communist community organizers Patrisse Cullors, Alicia Garza and Opel Tometti would   the Black Lives Matter movement. Their stated goal was to reignite the black liberation movement. In the wake of the Donna Brazile scandal revealed by WikiLeaks, one might hope that CNN started applying stricter standards to their   pundits if for no other reason to maintain the appearance of impartiality. However, even in the face of their colossal failure to understand the American electorate, CNN remain CNN.