As the snow falls, Times reporters hit neighborhoods and airports from Washington to Boston. Here are some of the stories they found. Snow may have been in the forecast for the Jersey Shore on Tuesday morning but something else ended up coming down in buckets: sarcasm. “What storm?” said Billy Pisano, a painter, who said he “fought the lines for bread and milk” Monday night and canceled his Tuesday job only to wake up to no snow. “I guess I’m going to stay home in the rain,” he said. “I think it’s going to be a Netflix day. ” At a Wawa convenience store in Neptune, people stopped for coffee, cigarettes and griping. George Martin, 50, had strapped a snowplow to his sport utility vehicle and planned to spend the day using it to scrape up a few dollars. He expected seven inches. His spirits sank when he woke up extra early and looked outside. “Like, oh man, come on, they did it again,” he said. “It’s like having a firecracker and you throw it and it’s a dud. ” He added, “There’s nothing to plow. You can’t charge people for something that’s not there. ” Al Clark, 38, and Stephen Vierschilling, 26,   at a shop that paints fire engines, shared jokes about weather forecasters. “The last few storms they said it was going to be Armageddon and it wasn’t,” Mr. Clark said. Soo Becchina, a   special education teacher from Oceanside on Long Island, tutors students after school four days a week. Because of the storm, she had to cancel sessions with her students. The missed day means missed wages. “Tutoring is a side business for me,” Ms. Becchina said. “But, more important it always upsets me when I cannot give my kids what they need. One of the girls I see is having a math test tomorrow. I am hoping that the teacher doesn’t give the test but, I know this teacher and she normally doesn’t move test dates. ” Despite losing the day and the money, Ms. Becchina still plans on doing a phone session with her student later in the day, at no charge.  —   NATE SCHWEBER and RUTH BASHINSKY Cancellation notices covered the international flight board at Terminal 4 at Kennedy Airport in Queens on Tuesday morning. But one flight, from Guangzhou, China, had landed shortly before 5 a. m. David Dubois, an engineer and   aviation enthusiast from Hudson, N. H. was among the passengers. He said he was impressed with the plane’s landing, despite the snowy conditions. “The pilot really had a difficult time and pulled it off really well,” Mr. Dubois said. “There was no tarmac it was all snow. When he landed, you could just feel it starting to go sideways. He pulled it straight  —   no bounce, no nothing. I couldn’t believe it. ” But Mr. Dubois still had to get to New England. Kamari Simon, 18, was in a similar bind in Terminal 5. Mr. Simon, a D. J. said he was scheduled to perform with a    rapper named Smooky Margiela at the South by Southwest Festival in Austin, Texas. “I hope everything goes through and I’ll be down in Austin,” said Mr. Simon, who studies music at Five Towns College in Dix Hills, on Long Island. “It’s an opportunity for me to meet other artists and network. ”  —   SEAN PICCOLI Tuesday’s storm shuttered schools along the Eastern Seaboard, keeping students out of the classroom. But, even though school was closed, elementary students in Petersham, Mass. a town of 1, 200 in the central part of the state, did not exactly have a snow day. Instead, they had homework  —   books, activities, worksheets and even a science experiment  —   intended to allow them to make up the day of school without being there, and, thus, to prevent the school from having to add a day at the end of the year. The idea emerged after the winter of 2015, when the district had 10 snow days. Tari Thomas, the superintendent of schools for a consolidated school district that includes Petersham, said the district experimented with sending older students home with online coursework to complete on laptops (although that was not the case on Tuesday, because the students had already used up the five days of online learning they were allowed for the year). “There have been a small pocket of parents that have said, ‘Why can’t kids be kids and have a snow day? ’” said Ms. Thomas. But, Ms. Thomas added, “We’ve had parents say, ‘Oh my gosh, thank goodness you gave them something to do. ’” In Central Park in Manhattan, it was a different story. It was a true snow day with schools canceled. Aliana Lambert, 6, dragged her purple sled to a   hill. There was no written rule banning girls from the hill at 100th Street and Central Park West, but at 2 p. m. Aliana was the only girl standing. Kat Vlasica, Aliana’s mother, said they came to their neighborhood hill for every snowstorm. “When you’re in New York with 800 square feet, you have to take advantage of a hill like this,” she said. “This is our hill, and we don’t even have to salt or scrape it. ”  —   JESS BIDGOOD and EMILY PALMER Navigating New York City streets was a challenge, what with snow and sleet and gusting wind and patches of ice. Drivers on Staten Island confronted another obstacle: a pair of runaway ponies. Terence Monahan, the chief of patrol, said the two ponies escaped from a stable. An   police officer driving his truck saw them walking down Hylan Boulevard on the South Shore. The officer stopped and grabbed a tow strap from inside his truck. “He grabbed them, tied them to a lamp post. We got a radio car there and we were able to return them back to the stables,” he said. “They’re safe, they’re in great shape. ” The mayor, for his part, thanked the “cowboy officer. ”  —   ASHLEY SOUTHALL WASHINGTON  —   Washington is finally getting the snow day it thought this winter had forgotten  —   well, kind of. Never mind that only an inch or two of snow, sleet and freezing rain fell across the city and nearby swaths of Virginia and Maryland overnight. Or that public transportation and the federal government, the region’s largest employer, were open for business. As layers of snow and sleet buried crocuses and wilted Washington’s early cherry blossoms, the roads were unplowed and mostly empty at dawn on Tuesday. Business owners who decided to open anyway shoveled front walks only to see them recoated in slippery slush. Even lawmakers in the House of Representatives, who are racing to move major health care legislation forward this week, elected to give themselves something of a snow day on Tuesday. Citing the rash of canceled flights across the country, they postponed all votes until Wednesday. Inside the Oval Office, President Trump hosted Mohammed bin Salman, Saudi Arabia’s deputy crown prince, for lunch and a  . Outside, the daily steady shuffle of tourists posed for pictures. David and Michelle Wilding of Dallas were among them, accompanied by their daughters, Hope and Grace. They had imagined something of a greener spring getaway. So snow? “It’s wonderful,” Mr. Wilding said, especially after a winter at home that did not send its usual dose.  —   NICHOLAS FANDOS The snowstorm threw a wrench into Town Meeting Day, a   pillar of the local democratic process in New Hampshire. With the jury out on what, exactly, elections officials were allowed to do, some town moderators postponed the    votes that make up the backbone of governance here. Others let them go ahead, and voters navigated wind and snow to make it to the polls. “We had to instruct our voter clerks to tell the voters, please don’t drip on the ballots,” said Wayne Colby, the town moderator in Henniker, N. H. west of Concord. “I grew up in New Hampshire,” Mr. Colby said, adding, “We don’t have snow days for elections. ” The town meeting, where voters hash out the budget or other issues related to fire and police departments, is older than the state itself. It is also a day of voting for local offices, ordinance changes or bonds. When it became clear that the day would collide with a major winter storm, some town moderators wondered if they could postpone their votes and meetings. The answer from the governor? It’s not clear, but please don’t. “Given that there are differing opinions, the best we can do is strongly recommend that all towns stay open for voting tomorrow,” said Gov. Chris Sununu, a Republican. The issue has become the latest disruption in a state that is reeling over accusations of widespread voter fraud by President Trump, and comes on the heels of a number of proposals by Republicans to tighten voting rules.  —   JESS BIDGOOD