As of this morning GDP was announced as close to zero in the first quarter. Again. [Barack Obama has created a   financial nightmare. GDP is zero  …    Obamacare costs are exploding  …    retail sales are awful  …    manufacturing numbers are awful  …    job gains are only for   menial jobs for the uneducated or illegal aliens. The media won’t report it, but this is a economic Armageddon. The middle class is being destroyed. I call it “The Obama Great Depression. ”  In a nutshell, this is what explains the popularity of Donald Trump. Republicans and Democrats live in different worlds. Some might say we live on different planets. I live in the real world. I am a private sector businessman. I have “boots on the ground. ” I understand that President Obama has wrecked the U. S. economy. It’s bad and it’s getting much worse. If Hillary or Bernie, or some other clueless liberal who wants to “protect and expand Obama’s legacy” is elected, America’s economy will smash to the ground like Humpty   into a million pieces that we can never put back together again. I know this because I’m a small businessman with 15 different and diverse businesses and careers. And all 15 are in trouble. All 15 are sucking wind. All 15 are hurting like never before in my lifetime (I’m 54 years old). And I will admit   I’m scared. I’ve seen some really bad trends, up close and personal. Consumers don’t want to spend money any more. Investors don’t want to invest any more (at least not in small business). No one wants to hire any more. No one wants to pay bills on time any more. People that I know and trust for many years are using home equity loans to pay their employee payrolls. They are using credit cards to pay taxes. No one has any idea how to pay for dramatically higher health insurance premiums caused by Obamacare. That’s before the massive increases proceed for 2017. My friends and business associates are in trouble. Deep trouble. It’s all going bad under Barack Obama. Today’s GDP report validates everything I’ve been saying and predicting for years. The chickens are coming home to roost. Then I saw the exit polls on Fox News on Tuesday night after five overwhelming, massive, YUUUUGE Republican primary landslides for Donald Trump. What was the number one issue for a large majority of Republican voters? The economy and jobs. There was no close second. Even Trump’s signature issue of immigration was at the bottom of their list. The voters are scared to death about this economy, jobs and the future of middle class America. But not Democrat voters. It’s just Republican voters that are scared about this horrible economy. Why? I finally figured out the disconnect. Because like me, most Republican voters are in the private sector. We own our own small businesses. Or we work for private sector businesses. Or we’re independent   real estate brokers, stockbrokers, car salesman, boat salesmen, insurance brokers, mortgage brokers, etc. In other words, we are “boots on the ground. ” We are the first to know something is wrong with the economy. We are the ones who know when the politicians and media are lying through their teeth. We know Obama, Hillary Clinton and the mainstream media are lying about “economic recovery. ” There is no recovery. There never was one. We have been living in an    Obama Great Depression. Yes, those living in New York (Wall Street) San Francisco (Silicon Valley) and Washington D. C. (government jobs and contracts) are fat and happy. But everywhere else   the people are in severe trouble. We are scared. We are hurting. We know this is getting worse. We know where this could   with a complete economic collapse and the end of America and capitalism. Republican voters support for Donald Trump because: Republican voters get all this. But Democrat voters haven‘t a freaking clue there’s a problem. Have you noticed? Every Democrat I speak to swears the economy is fine. You know why there is such a disconnect? Because Democrats almost never work in the private sector. They sign the back of paychecks, not the front. Huge difference. Republicans and Democrats live in different worlds. Republicans work for a living, sell for a living, own for a living. We do it all with our own money, talent and wits. I’ve never taken a government check in my life. But the vast majority of Obama, Hillary and Bernie supporters belong to one of four categories: #1) They work for someone else. They collect a safe weekly paycheck, without ever having to worry where the money comes from. #2) They work for government, or collect a pension from government for NOT working. #3) They collect welfare, food stamps and free Obamacare from government. #4) They are in school, or college, or broke and jobless living in mommy and daddy’s basement. They’ve never earned a serious check in the real world, let alone signed the front of the check. They understand nothing about money or the economy. So yes, Republicans and Democrats do live in different worlds. That accounts for most Republicans supporting Donald Trump with fervor and passion and enthusiasm. Meanwhile virtually all Democrats despise him and are repulsed by him. They can’t understand why anyone would like Trump. What it comes down to is  …    we are indeed living in two different Americas. We are actually living on two different planets. It’s clear to me: Republicans are from Mars  …    and Democrats are from  . And they may not realize it yet, but this cratering, jobless economy will be the main reason Donald J. Trump is elected the next President of the United States.