Gretchen Carlson is renewing her push for an   ban, firing off a series of tweets further criticizing   and pointed to her daughter’s work with a Newtown charity. [Breitbart News reported that Carlson said that    are not needed “to hunt or kill deer” and suggested they only serve to enable terrorists to carry out their attacks with greater efficiency. She quoted a December 2015 poll showing majority support for an “assault weapons” ban and said, “I’m with the majority today, taking a stand. ”  When confronted by Second Amendment supporters on Twitter, Carlson doubled down on her   stance, sometimes conflating an   with the   magazines that can be used in such a firearm. For example, a Twitter user named Greg tweeted to remind Carlson that our Founding Fathers did not write the Second Amendment so we could hunt. Greg wrote: “2nd amendment was not written to protect deer hunting Gretchen. ” Carlson responded: “It also wasn’t written to blow away people with 30 rounds. ” @Greg69640587 @Mediaite it also wasn’t written to blow away people with 30 rounds,  —   Gretchen Carlson (@GretchenCarlson) June 14, 2016,  Another Twitter user —  John —  asked: “Why do you rich elitists who always want to make it more difficult for us common law abiding folks to protect ourselves?” Carlson responded: “U need 30 rounds to do that?” @ManViking u need 30 rounds to do that?  —   Gretchen Carlson (@GretchenCarlson) June 14, 2016,  And another Twitter user —  who goes by the name The New Independence —  asked: “Let me ask you a question Gretchen Carlson. Somebody breaks into your house to kill your children. How do you stop them? Will they be nice?” Carlson responded: “With a gun that isn’t an assault weapon. ” And just to sure everyone understands she does support banning   Carlson responded to praise for her “objective reporting” by tweeting, “That’s why I backed the assault weapon ban today thanks. ” Carlson explained that her decision to go   against   after one was used in the Pulse Orlando   zone was partly because of Sandy Hook —  another attack in a   zone —  and partly because her daughter works for a Newton charity. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.