  Donald Trump reportedly paused to call the family of assassinated San Antonio Police Detective Benjamin Marconi on Monday. [Dane Gregory Marconi posted a message on his Facebook page saying he had received a phone call of condolence from   Trump, according to News4SanAntonio. The San Antonio NBC affiliate reported the post was shared by a woman on Facebook who identified herself as a San Antonio Police Crime Scene Investigator, Annie Patterson Campos, shared the message on her page. The post has since been removed, the NBC affiliate stated.  “Just got off the phone with the future president Trump, he sends his condolences to our family,” Marconi’s son reportedly posted. The post reportedly had 500 shares and hundreds of likes before being taken down. Steve Weiss, director of research for the Officer Down Memorial Page, tweeted a link to a San Antonio   article and said, “  @realDonaldTrump calls son of murdered @SATXPolice Detective Benjamin Marconi to offer condolences. ”   @realDonaldTrump calls son of murdered @SATXPolice Detective Benjamin Marconi to offer condolences. https:  .   —   Steve Weiss (@steveODMP) November 22, 2016,  The San Antonio newspaper confirmed that Dane Marconi is the son of the late Detective Marconi. Breitbart Texas reached out to Mr. Marconi to see if any other elected official had reached out to offer condolences. No response was immediately available. Detective Marconi’s Twitter account reveals the father and grandfather was an openly gay officer who actively supported the   during his campaign. In August 2016, the detective tweeted out one of Trump’s campaign ad videos and said, “Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. ” Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. https:  .   —   Benjamin Marconi (@BenjamminOU812) August 22, 2016,  Marconi’s tweets also showed support for other officers killed in the line of duty, including the five   officers killed in a sniper attack by former member of the New Black Panther Party and BlackLivesMatter supporter, Micah Xavier Johnson. Following the attack on the Pulse nightclub in Orlando earlier this year, Marconi posed with another man and tweeted a message of standing in support of Orlando. Marconi was killed on Sunday, Breitbart Texas reported, when Otis Tyrone McKane allegedly walked up to his patrol car while he was writing a ticket and shot him in the head. McKane then allegedly fired a second shot striking the dying officer again. McKane was arrested Monday night after a   manhunt, but took time out from his fugitive flight to get married in a Bexar County courtroom. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.