A sharply dressed lawyer represented his   clients before a   panel in New York recently, claiming that because federal authorities tried to coerce them into becoming informants, they had the right to receive monetary damages. The argument took place in a federal appeals court in Manhattan, before a gallery of a few dozen people. But a similar version of a lawyer and his community’s concerns are now starring on the small screen, in the sixth season of the thriller, “Homeland. ” The lawyer Ramzi Kassem, a professor at the City University of New York School of Law, became the model for Reda Hashem, who runs a nonprofit legal clinic advocating for   rights, together with the   officer Carrie Mathison played by the show’s star Claire Danes. Mr. Kassem, the founder of the CUNY Clear clinic, which stands for Creating Law Enforcement Accountability and Responsibility, served as more than just   inspiration. He became, in a way, Homeland’s paid conscience consultant. “Initially I said, ‘Look, I’m probably not your guy because I really don’t like your show,” Mr. Kassem said, explaining that he felt “Homeland” exploited the stereotype of all Muslims as terrorists, and all people of color as threats. He agreed with the artists who subversively decorated the set last season with Arabic graffiti that read: “Homeland is racist. ” Alex Gansa, the   and showrunner, wanted to confront these claims. “What better way to do it than hire somebody as a consultant who would call you out on a weekly basis?” he said. The television lawyer, played by Patrick Sabongui, represents a young   man, Sekou Bah (J. Mallory McCree) arrested for links to overseas terrorists, after he posted videos sympathizing with terrorists. Ms. Danes’s character, a C. I. A. officer, shouts to an F. B. I. agent that their client was “just another Muslim kid you entrapped” by using an informant who posed as a friend. Reviews have been mixed for this season, which is being broadcast at a particularly resonant period: President Trump has heightened attention on potential domestic terrorist threats by his executive orders restricting immigration from   countries with links to terrorism. Spoiler alert  —   Mr. Kassem said he was pleased, if not relieved, that the producers took some of his suggestions. “Is it a perfect depiction? Absolutely not  —   because they have to dramatize it,” Mr. Kassem said. “I think as far as mainstream cultural production goes, it is, so far, the single work that most accurately reflects how these predatory prosecutions go, how informants are used and pressured and how these cases get packaged. ” Reading and redlining every script became Mr. Kassem’s weekend job, and he continued to point out inaccuracies and tendencies toward what he felt were racist depictions. “He did it in a wildly entertaining fashion,” Mr. Gansa said, adding it wasn’t typical Hollywood obsequiousness, which was refreshing. “His notes were astonishing in their bluntness, in their lack of convention. ” The show’s media materials describe Reda Hashem as a “C. U. N. Y. law professor,” although the school and clinic are not mentioned by name. The dean of the Law School, Mary Lu Bilek, sent a note before the current season of “Homeland” was broadcast to faculty and students touting Mr. Kassem’s involvement and his directorship of both the Clear project and the Immigrant and   Rights Clinic. Mr. Kassem said he was paid a standard fee, but declined to say how much that was. Last week, the Clear clinic earned a settlement in its lawsuit brought with the American Civil Liberties Union against the New York Police Department for its unwarranted surveillance of Muslims. And on March 1, Mr. Kassem represented four   citizens or green card holders who claimed that by refusing to cooperate with the government, they were put on a federal No Fly list, causing lost wages. “This takes us one step towards establishing the law,” he said in court, “so in the future, agents will not overstep boundaries. ” Mr. Gansa said that he can hear Mr. Kassem’s cadence in Mr. Sabongui’s performance, though Mr. Sabongui, in an interview, laughed and said he did not intend to do a “biopic on Ramzi Kassem. ” The two met before the season and discovered they had a bit in common, each speaking French, Arabic and English. Mr. Sabongui, 42, grew up in Montreal, the son of Egyptian parents who are Coptic Christian. Mr. Kassem, 38, was born in Beirut, and grew up in several countries in the Middle East. He earned a law degree from the Sorbonne after graduating with both an undergraduate and law degree from Columbia University. “When we first met, Ramzi and I would both drop a couple of bars of Arabic, just to see, ‘what’s your accent? What’s your dialect?’ Then we did the same thing in French,” Mr. Sabongui, 42, said. “That moment felt like a moment of home. ” Mr. Kassem brought Mr. Sabongui to his favorite Senegalese coffee shop, Les Ambassades in Harlem, where he spoke to his fellow regulars in French, holding court. During the filming of a jail scene, at the Westchester County Correctional Facility in Valhalla, N. Y. Mr. Kassem was just as commanding. “He just took over the set,” Mr. Gansa said, “he showed us exactly what the lawyer would be doing, exactly where the meeting would take place, who would be waiting for whom. It made it feel verisimilar in a way we never could have done on our own. ” Mr. Kassem first became involved in defending   against government overreach shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks when Muslims were being investigated and detained in New York. He works with clients detained at Guantánamo, as well as   whose passports were revoked and leads Know Your Rights sessions with his students. “It’s personal, it’s not just a principled impulse,” Mr. Kassem said. “I grew up in wartime in different places in the Middle East where there was a complete absence of any kind of order or fairness or justice, or in other countries that were under authoritarian rule. ” In working with the “Homeland” producers, Mr. Kassem approached it as his duty to change the Muslim narrative. He gave them all homework. He sent the writers the case of four   men in Newburgh, N. Y. convicted of attempting to blow up synagogues in the Bronx in what originated as a government sting operation. He also included the sentencing statement of Tarek Mehanna, an   Muslim convicted of conspiring to provide material support for terrorists. Mr. Mehanna watched jihadi videos and expressed his views online. Citing history lessons he learned as a student in suburban Boston, he said he had only exercised his First Amendment rights. In the fictional case of Sekou Bah, “we really pushed the limits of protected speech and how much protected speech we could tolerate in the age of terror,” Mr. Gansa said. He added of Mr. Kassem: “It’s not to say that we always agreed with him, or we always took his advice. ” Mr. Gansa said he also spoke with New York Police Department counterterrorism officers who worked with the unit that conducted surveillance in Muslim communities. Although it did not end well for Mr. Bah in Episode 4, he seemed to be a pawn in a much more sinister governmental game. If Mr. Kassem wanted to leave “Homeland” executives with one message, it was that the show had a social responsibility because judges and juries and prosecutors all watch. “That idea really resonated for us and we wanted to get it right,” Mr. Gansa said. “And in a way, Ramzi laid down a marker and we tried to honor it. ”