Chelsea Clinton will join actresses Lena Dunham and America Ferrera to headline a campaign event for Democrat presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton at the NeueHouse social club in West Hollywood, California on Sunday. [While details of the event are scarce, a representative at NeueHouse told Breitbart News that the event is private and will include “some fundraising. ”  Hillary Clinton is set to return on March 24 for what will be her eighth fundraising trip to California to attend a series of fundraising events, including an “Evening with Hillary“  event at the Avalon nightclub in Hollywood, where musicians Ben Harper, Estelle, and Mary J. Blige will perform. Dunham has stumped for Clinton before the    Girls actress hit the campaign trail in Iowa and New Hampshire ahead of those states’ primary elections, where she chatted up Clinton supporters in coffee shops and wore colorful outfits emblazoned with the candidate’s name. In September, Dunham interviewed Clinton for her Lenny Letter newsletter, and later “took over” the candidate’s Instagram account. Ferrera has also campaigned for Clinton. The    Ugly Betty star attended two campaign events with Chelsea in Colorado last month, one of which, an “informal Latina coffee group discussion,” was similarly closed to the public. Ferrera also appeared with fellow actress Eva Longoria at a   rally for Clinton in Las Vegas ahead of the Nevada caucus last month, where she joked that she and Hillary “could be BFFs if you’d just give me the chance. ” According to Variety, Chelsea Clinton is scheduled to deliver remarks earlier Sunday at a SoulCycle location in West Hollywood. Tickets for that event reportedly start at $1, 000 per person. News of the    event comes just one day after it was announced that George and Amal Clooney would host a pair of fundraisers for the Democrat frontrunner in Los Angeles and San Francisco in April. Those events will reportedly include dinner and cocktails with Clinton, and the Clinton campaign is also running a contest in which supporters can use a cellphone to enter to meet the Clooneys and the candidate at the actor’s Studio City home.