Susan Sarandon delivered an emotional tribute to her late friend David Bowie during the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Saturday night  —   but many viewers at home were focused on something else entirely as the actress’ revealing outfit racked up comments on social media. [The    actress, grandmother and fervent Bernie Sanders supporter donned a white pantsuit combo with just a black bra on underneath while presenting the evening’s “In Memoriam” tribute honoring the celebrities who have died this year.  Had a wonderful time at the #SAGAwards last night. Thanks @maxmara for the gorgeous power suit! pic. twitter.   —   Susan Sarandon (@SusanSarandon) January 31, 2016,  Sarandon began the segment by honoring musician David Bowie, who passed away earlier this month at the age of 69. “My dear friend David Bowie once said: ‘All clichés are true. The years really do speed by. Life really is as short as they tell you it is,’” Susan said, according to the Daily Mail, one of the few outlets not to be distracted by the actress’   cleavage. How are Susan Sarandon’s boobs not nominated for something?  #SAGAwards,  —   Jenny Mollen (@jennyandteets) January 31, 2016,  You would think Susan Sarandon would win the SAG awards everytime,  —   Drake DeLa Ghetteaux (@papigogetem) December 15, 2011,  Susan Sarandon looks  . #SAGAwards2016,  —   Doug Benson (@DougBenson) January 31, 2016,  looks like Susan Sarandon already won the SAG,  —   Fresh as Lettuce (@zombiemarcus) January 31, 2016,  #sagawards Good of Susan Sarandon to show us her brassiere introducing the In Memoriam segment. It was appropriately black.  —   Margo Howard (@Margoandhow) January 31, 2016,  At least one viewer called the actress’ ensemble inappropriate for the segment she was presenting: Susan Sarandon, if you knew you were going to be doing the In Memoriam part of the #sagawards, why the eff did you wear a bra top? #inapprop,  —   Lauren (@LaurenNell89) January 31, 2016,  But fellow actress Kate Winslet appeared to enjoy it nonetheless: Kate Winslet is   with Susan Sarandon’s cleavage and can’t help touching it! https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   EntertainmentTonight (@etnow) January 31, 2016,  Check out the complete list of SAG Award winners from Saturday night here, courtesy of Us Weekly.