Hollywood publicity powerhouse Sunshine Sachs has cancelled its glitzy,   annual holiday celebrations in solidarity with those whom its chief executive says are people who feel targeted by Donald Trump. [“We’ve been talking a lot about how to protect the things we care about, ” Sunshine Sachs CEO Shawn Sachs told industry outlet TheWrap on Tuesday.  “I felt the morning after was nothing compared to how I felt talking to people in this office, those who felt their citizenship  —   in a matter of moments  —   was gone or had been lessened,” Sachs said of the election. “Being the diverse workplace we are, many of us felt under assault. ” Sunshine Sachs represents screen stars from Natalie Portman to Leonardo DiCaprio, and also works with major tech companies like Facebook. The firm spends big to host holiday parties in New York City and Los Angeles, usually attended by the journalism and Hollywood elite. But the election of Donald Trump marked a change for the company. In lieu of its its annul parties, the firm will donate the budgets to   LBGT rights, and immigration organizations like Planned Parenthood, the Human Rights Campaign and the Immigrant Defense Fund. Sunshine Sachs will also donate money to gun control advocacy groups like Everytown for Gun Safety, as well as the Environmental Defense Fund and Muslim Aid America. Later this week, Sunshine Sachs, which has offices in Los Angeles, Washington, D. C. Austin, Texas, and New York City, will shut down for a “day of service. ” Following the community service work, the firm’s employees will participate in an intimate holiday gathering. The move by Sunshine Sachs comes as another public relations firm, New York City’s   LaForce, also cancelled its annual holiday celebrations due to the presidential election results. LaForce similarly donated the proceeds from its scheduled party to progressive groups including Planned Parenthood, Housing Works and the Stonewall Foundation.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson