Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager Robby Mook says voters will trust Hillary Clinton more after she’s elected president. [Politico notes Mook suggested “the American people will have to observe Hillary as president before fully trusting her” during an “Off Message” podcast interview with Glenn Thrush.  “I don’t think people will fully appreciate who she is until  —   knock on wood  —   she’s elected president because when she is president, I think she will be phenomenally successful because she’s a work horse,” Mook told Thrush when asked how Clinton will turn the dial on her trustworthiness with voters. Unlike Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign, trustworthiness has been a major hurdle for the former secretary of state in 2016. A recent CBS News poll conducted after last week’s Republican National Convention revealed 67 percent of voters don’t think Clinton is honest and trustworthy. “She’s going to be much more successful in the public eye when they see her actually able to produce those results, which is really what drives her popularity,” Mook pleaded. However, Matt Beynon, who previously worked on Sen. Rick Santorum’s presidential campaign, doesn’t believe this is the right approach to gaining trust. “There’s an old adage that everyday we wake up and tell ourselves lies so we can live,” Beynon slammed in response to Mook’s statement. “This must be the lie Robby Mook and the Clinton Campaign is telling itself. ” Beyond added: She is not a new commodity in politics. For 25 years she, her husband, and their associates have lied, cheated, and intimidated their way to the top of American politics. Voters know their record and they know she has never given them a reason to trust what she says, does, or promises to do. Hogan Gidley, Gov. Mike Huckabee’s communications adviser during his 2016 campaign, called Mook’s statement “ridiculous spin. ” “That ridiculous spin sounds eerily similar to ‘we have to pass the bill before we know what’s in it.’ Democrats sold Obamacare on blatant lies and now they’re using the same tactics to try and sell Hillary. It was funnier and more believable the first time I heard it,” Gidley slammed, adding: “Results”? He’s got to be joking. Hillary isn’t running on her record as Secretary of State because that record includes the Russian Reset, the Arab Spring and Benghazi just to name a few  —   all of which have left the world burning with a more powerful potent ISIS seizing territory and carrying out terrorist attacks in our own country. That just leaves her time as U. S. Senator as a selling point for ‘results’. What’s laughable about that is in her eight years as a US Senator, Hillary managed to get just one bill enacted into law  —   renaming a courthouse. That just means her record proves Hillary is both ineffective and unaccomplished. Deana Bass, who worked on Dr. Ben Carson’s 2016 presidential campaign, said the idea Clinton must be elected before earning trust is “insane. ” “Democrats asking us to wait until Clinton is president for her to prove herself trustworthy is insane. She has had 30 plus years to earn the trust of the American people and she simply has not done it,” Bass explained. “It is highly unlikely that she will do it in the next 102 days. And we certainly can’t give her a trial period of four years in the White House. ”