Iranian   news outlet Tasnim released video Wednesday afternoon that shows a U. S. sailor apologizing for purportedly infringing upon Tehran’s sovereignty. [On Tuesday, Iran seized two U. S. naval boats, arguing they illegally entered Iran’s territorial waters. The Pentagon said they encountered mechanical troubles, forcing their boats to go off course.  “It was a mistake, it was our fault, and we apologize for our mistake,” an unidentified sailor told the Iranian interviewer, who then asked him if his GPS system penetrated Iran. “I believe so,” he responded. #Iran state TV showed a footage in which the commander of #US sailors made an apology. #navy#Pentagon pic. twitter.   —   Abas Aslani (@abasinfo) January 13, 2016,    In another segment of the interview, the sailor held by the Iranians is asked, “How was the Iranian behavior with you?” He responds, “The Iranian behavior was fantastic while we were here. We thank you very much for your hospitality and your assistance. ” “Did you have special problem” with us, the interviewer asked. “We have no problem, sir,” the U. S. sailor responded. Video: One of #US sailors says Iranians behavior with them was ”fantastic”  they had no problem. #Iran pic. twitter.   —   Abas Aslani (@abasinfo) January 13, 2016,    Abas Aslani of Tehran’s Tasnim news Agency released more photos of the encounter on social media, which show the female sailor was forced to wear an Islamic hijab. New pictures from #US sailors before being released by #Iran’s #IRGC. pic. twitter.   —   Abas Aslani (@abasinfo) January 13, 2016,  Pictures from #US navy boats  sailors after being released by #Iran’s #IRGC. pic. twitter.   —   Abas Aslani (@abasinfo) January 13, 2016,  Iran’s PressTV has also released extensive footage showing the sailors’ arrest and detention. In the video, Iranian soldiers are seen rummaging through American weapons and ammunition, and checking the sailors’ identities.  The naval crews were taken Tuesday evening as they were navigating the Persian Gulf in riverine boats while in an area between Bahrain and Kuwait, according to reports. President Obama would later deliver his State of the Union Address without mentioning the sailors held by Tehran. The sailors were held overnight on Fari Island, where an Iran Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) base is situated. The ten sailors are now safe at a U. S. military base in Qatar, according to U. S. officials. The sailors will be debriefed and receive a medical checkup, but there are no signs they were harmed, the official told AP.