Hillary Clinton posted and shared the names of concealed U. S. intelligence officials on her unprotected email system. [Federal records reveal that Clinton swapped these highly classified names on an email account that was vulnerable to attack and was breached repeatedly by   hacker attempts. These new revelations  —   reminiscent of the Valerie Plame scandal during George W. Bush’s tenure  —   could give FBI investigators the evidence they need to make a case that Clinton violated the Espionage Act by mishandling national defense information through “gross negligence. ”  Numerous names cited in Clinton’s emails have been redacted in State Department email releases with the classification code “B3 CIA ” a highly specialized classification that means the information, if released, would violate the Central Intelligence Act of 1949. The State Department produced a document to Judicial Watch in April 2014 that identifies different types of “(b)(3)” redactions, including “CIA ” which it defines as information “Specifically exempted from disclosure by statute   …     Central Intelligence Act of 1949. ” “That’s what it suggests,” Judicial Watch president Tom Fitton told Breitbart News, referring to the indication that Clinton disclosed the names of   intelligence sources, based on the B3 redactions. The CIA justifies “(b)(3)” redactions with this description: “(b)(3) Applies to the Director’s statutory obligations to protect from disclosure intelligence sources and methods, as well as the organization, functions, names, official titles, salaries, or numbers of personnel employed by the Agency, in accord with the National Security Act of 1947 and the CIA Act of 1949, respectively. ” The State Department declined to comment. “Per the colleague who handles this issue, we are not speaking to the content of emails,” State Department spokeswoman Nicole Thompson told Breitbart News. Here are some examples of (b)(3) redactions, Naming the defense attaché in Malta, On October 16, 2011, recent U. S. Ambassador to Malta Douglas Kmiec sent an email to Cheryl Mills with the subject line “TIME SENSITIVE AND CONFIDENTIAL  —   Malta Trip Backgrounder for the Secretary  —   Confidential. ” Kmiec wrote to Mills, “I know from current events that your life must be a whirlwind. I know that if there ever was someone who could tame the whirlwind, it would be you. Just read the news report of the Secretary’s stop in Malta next week. Thank you for arranging this. This letter and the accompanying clips I believe will help make the Secretary’s visit a highly successful and well received one. ” In the memo, Kmiec revealed the name of a top defense attaché in the country. That name was later classified by the State Department with three different classifications: 1. 4 (D) to connote “Foreign relations or foreign activities of the US, including confidential sources,” B1 to connote “Information specifically authorized by an executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy,” and “B3 CIA  . ” “The largest part of our US team in the embassy is the     ncis contingent that has established a Maritime training program with the AFM to good success. The defense attaché there now is new [REDACTED] beloved and hardworking  —   and to good effect, patrolling the waters and the ports for [illegible] traffickers and terror related figures,” Kmiec wrote. Mills forwarded the memo directly to Clinton’s private email account at clintonemail. com with the note “Fyi background. ” Clinton replied to Mills and CC’ed Huma Abedin with the confidential information, writing, “I need enough time there to meet. Hague is there today and doing all the right meetings. So, I’m copying Huma to reinforce my desire to squeeze more out of a too quick trip. ” When he sent the memo to Mills, Douglas Kmiec had been out of his Ambassador to Malta job for several months. Kmiec was a big supporter of President Obama. He garnered criticism in a 2011 inspector general report for ignoring directives from Washington and for spending too much time writing articles about religion. Naming the guest in her office  On December 15, 2011, Clinton’s office manager Claire Coleman sent out Clinton’s daily schedule to Clinton’s private email account and to Abedin and others. The schedule included a   Presidential Daily Briefing in the Secretary’s office between 8:35 AM and 8:40 AM. “Note: Official Photo following   [Redacted]” the schedule read, blanking out the name of the person who Clinton was taking a photo with. That redaction was marked “B3 CIA  ” in addition to other redactions. Clinton’s public schedule released for that day begins at 9 AM, after the classified photo op. Petraeus’ chief of staff, On March 14, 2012, a redacted name sent Cheryl Mills an email with the subject line “URGENT  —   From Dave Petraeus’s Chief of Staff  …    ” The sender’s name was marked with a “B3” redaction to connote violation of the CIA statute. “Dear Cheryl,” the email began, followed by a vast section of redacted material. Those paragraphs were marked with several classifications including “B3 CIA  . ” The email’s closing paragraphs were also marked with B3 redactions. “Does all of that sound ok to you?” the message continued. “If so, may I please ask you to get word around immediately [B3 Redaction] only in those circumstances where he deems that to be appropriate and the best way forward? Thanks much and cheers, [B3 Redaction]. ” Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, On September 15, 2012, a B3 redacted name sent an email to Jake Sullivan numerous redacted names with a redacted subject line, most of text redacted, “Per the discussion at Deputies, here are the revised TPs for HPSCI [The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence]. ” The email was later forwarded to Clinton, who told an aide, “PLs print. ” “Iran Insights” On September 2, 2009, Jackie Newmyer of Long Term Strategy Group in Cambridge, Massachusetts sent an email directly to Clinton’s private account with the subject line “Iran Insights From [Redacted]” that included the B3 redaction code: Secretary Clinton, Last week I traveled to Israel [REDACTED] in an   seminar and simulation exercise with the IDF general who is likely to become Israel’s next chief of military intelligence and his team and, separately, [REDACTED]. Yesterday, [REDACTED] Iran workshop in Washington involving DoD and think tank experts. Despite the fact that the meetings were with defense [REDACTED] personnel, there was universal sentiment that a strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities would be counterproductive, on the one hand, and that incremental measures would be perceived by Iran as an indication of weakness, on the other. The email included sensitive information including the following: If Iran acquires a nuclear capability, no single   countermeasure will be adequate. Something like the “flexible response” posture from the Cold War will be required, necessitating a range of actions from enhancing the US deterrent presence  —   nuclear submarines carrying ballistic missiles in the Arabian Sea  —   to bolstering regional actors’ defenses. Israeli leaders should be able to contain the damage to the Israeli population’s morale from an Iranian bomb, but this will require careful management of public statements. There is a tension between building up support for action against the Iranian nuclear program now and delivering the kind of reassurance that will be necessary once the capability has been acquired. Clinton replied that she would like to discuss the matter with Jackie. Jackie replied: I will be in Washington for a   meeting on Thursday this week [B3 REDACTED] and my travel plans are flexible, so I could meet you any time on Wednesday afternoon, after 5 pm on Thursday, or any time on Friday morning. If those times do not work, I would be happy to come down at your convenience. Clinton and Jake Sullivan then set up a meeting with Jackie. Naming someone at the ‘ ’ On November 11, 2011, Clinton’s special assistant Lona J. Valmoro sent an email directly to Clinton’s private email address with the subject line “ . ” Valmoro wrote: “MS  —   Kurt said that he has no reservations about Toria joining the   so I will confirm. The manifest for the meeting will be: Kurt Campbell, Jake Sullivan, Evan Mederios, NSS, Admiral Willard, Kin Moy, Toria Nuland, [REDACTED] per Kurt’s request” That last name on the list was redacted with “B6” and also “B3 CIA  ” classifications. ‘See Traffic’ On March 14, 2012, Mills sent an email to  . S. Ambassador to Algeria Henry Ensher with the subject line “Connecting. ” “I hope your visit to DC is going well,” Mills said before writing a chunk of text that is redacted with 1. 4 (D) B1, and also “B3 CIA  ” redactions. Mills’ redacted text clearly included a name because she then wrote, “  I could respond   protocol he advised that the matter had been resolved. Can you advise as to what accommodation was worked out?” Ensher replied, “Sorry. Had not seen this until en route back to post. Accommodation was to have elizabeth go to a dinner meeting, but not the next day session with senior counterpart. Bare objectives of visit were achieved but we blew an opportunity to make the larger point about civ control of mil, which is critical in dealing with algerian leaders. ” Ensher’s next paragraph is redacted with 1. 4 (D) B1, and also the “B3 CIA  ” redactions. “Good work on com conf. Thx,” Ensher concluded. After sending another email to Ensher, Mills forwarded the chain to Clinton’s private email account and said “See traffic. ” The departing diplomat, On December 12, 2011, Mills sent an email to Clinton’s private email account with the subject line “FW: Thank you for your time today. ” “[REDACTED] last day is Thursday,” Mills wrote, adding that “Lona” would arrange a photograph for the man with Clinton and his daughter and asking Clinton for feedback on the employee. The redacted portion had a B6 and a “B3 CIA  ” redaction. “He did a good job,” Clinton replied. The Taliban, On March 25, 2012, Jake Sullivan forwarded to Clinton’s private email address a chain involving a meeting involving Pakistan and the Taliban that had a “B3 CIA  ” redaction in it. The subject line was “Fw:   in Dushanbe. ” Hill testimony, On January 23, 2013, Mills forwarded to Clinton’s private email address a transcript of Clinton’s testimony to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee with the subject line “Fw: Testimony as Prepared for Delivery to SFRC  HFAC. ” The chain included an email that a person with a redacted name sent to Mills saying, “You know, she’s pretty damned good. ” The chain also included an email that Mills sent with the transcript to various people including White House adviser Ben Rhodes and various individuals with redacted names, including two people whose names are blotted out with “B3 CIA  ” redactions. CC’s, On July 25, 2010, Jake Sullivan forwarded Clinton a long email chain with the subject line “Fw: Digest from NyTimes and Guardian [Full   List]. ” The highly redacted email chain was at one point forwarded to “[Full   List]” and includes on multiple occasions an individual whose name is blotted out with a “B3 CIA  ” redaction.