Hugh Hefner is being sued by a model, who at one time accused Bill Cosby of sexually abusing her, suggesting the Playboy icon and founder was an enabler of Cosby’s behavior with her and other women. [According to the Los Angeles Times, this past February, Chloe Goins, 26, dropped her federal case against Cosby, which she had filed last year. On Monday, however, she filed a new lawsuit in Los Angeles County Superior Court and named Hefner as conspiring with Cosby to ignore his alleged abuse, suggesting he knew about it.  Goins said in the lawsuit that she was sexually abused by Cosby in one of the bedrooms at the Playboy Mansion on August 9, 2008 while they were both attending a party there. She was 18 years old at the time. According to the Times, she alleged that Cosby spiked her drink and that she passed out, but recalled Cosby sucking or licking her toes, then pulling up his pants before leaving the room. The lawsuit also claims that when she awoke, she had a sticky substance on her chest. The lawsuit also blasts Hefner for hosting parties with young women. According to Fox News, part of the suit reads: Defendant Hefner’s actions of inviting and hosting young and impressionable minor children lo his residence, and providing alcoholic beverages and or foreign substances was negligent at the very least. Additionally, his act of inviting or housing and introducing Defendant Cosby, the Defendant Hefner knew or should have known had a history of severe and serial sexual battery and or possibly rape of women was negligent at the very least   …     TMZ notes that Cosby called Goins a liar. In January of last year, his former attorney Marty Singer reportedly told the celebrity news site that on the date in question Cosby was in New York City and not in the Mansion. Hefner had issued a statement in 2014 when lawsuits and allegations started flying about Cosby’s behavior in his Holmby Hills home: “I would never tolerate this kind of behavior, regardless of who was involved,” he stated at the time. Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz