Times Insider delivers    insights into life at The New York Times. In a large newsroom, the collaboration between a reporter and a photographer often depends on the whims of their respective assigning editors, who calculate strengths, weaknesses, and, most of all, availability. Who’s up to cover that fire? Who’s up to shoot it? The resulting slapdash teamwork between writer and photographer can end as quickly as it began they may work together the next day, or never again. But for many years now, I have been fortunate to work with exceptional New York Times photographers for extended periods of time while writing a national column called “This Land. ” Lately, I have been collaborating with Todd Heisler, a stunningly gifted photographer and a great companion. Before Todd, I traveled for several years beside the recently retired Nicole Bengiveno, whose profound empathy comes through in her camera’s every click, and who deserves some formal commendation for having put up with a certain hack  —   me  —   for so long. And before Nicole, there was Ángel Franco, who retired last month to end a storied Times career  —   and who began the “This Land” column with me 10 years ago this month. The template for our relationship  —   indeed, for “This Land”  —   was established in early 2007, as we headed out to do our inaugural column, one on Logan, a small West Virginia city struggling with a fatal mine disaster and the decline of King Coal. Mr. Franco and I began by walking the streets, noticing: the coal train running through the city’s core the dust settling on buildings along the tracks and the Jesus Christ carved from anthracite, prominent in a store’s window display. Noticing  —   that was the word for it. At one point we went to a small diner, and engaged in a brief exchange with the waitress. After she had taken our order, I asked, “Did you hear what she said?” And Mr. Franco repeated her words exactly: “‘Are we ready yet, children? ’” There it was. As with Todd and Nicole, as with so many other photographers  —   and may God forgive any reporter who uses the term “my photographer”  —   Mr. Franco is an attentive observer, witnessing and listening always. In that   diner, I knew that my Times colleague embraced the storytelling worth of the small and quiet moment. This is going to be fun, I thought. For the next two years, Mr. Franco and I produced a column a week, just about, and wound up filing    dispatches from each of the 50 states. This, of course, was madness. Our weeks would often begin on Monday at Newark Liberty International Airport, and end on Friday, or Saturday, even Sunday, with frantic efforts to figure out where to go to next. Louisiana? Montana? Maine? (The only way we were able to maintain some semblance of sanity, by the way, was by having the great Cate Doty help us with possible story ideas, travel logistics and dinner recommendations she was a full partner in this misbegotten venture. I also owe a debt of gratitude to then National desk editor, Suzanne Daley, and then deputy national editor, David Firestone, both of whom were integral in allowing “This Land” to begin.) You can look it up. We went to a retirement home in  Penney Farms, Fla. to visit the coroner in “The Wizard of Oz. ” To Havana, Ill. to report on the Asian carp infesting the Illinois River. To Kalaupapa, Hawaii, to meet the last residents of a colony to which those with leprosy, also known as Hansen’s disease, were once relegated. To Nashville to witness an execution by electric chair. To Bethel, Alaska, to explore the    games of bootleggers. To Bill, Wyo.  —   population five, maybe  —   to stay in a new hotel catering to railway workers. To Cottage Grove, Wis. to meet the pastor who baptized Jeffrey Dahmer in a prison whirlpool. To Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, to uncover the    intrigue at a county fair’s  . To Denver, to cover the annual convention of the Sovereign Grand Lodge of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows (where we felt perfectly at home). Kalispell, Mont. Lake Mead, Nev. Ainsworth, Neb. Newport, Ind. Pascagoula, Miss. Greensburg, Kan. Hollywood, Md. Sylva, N. C. The datelines blur into one American story, captured in all its breadth by Mr. Franco and his camera. I often had no idea what to do for the next column. One Saturday morning, while scanning online newspapers for ideas, I noticed a news brief about a farewell breakfast in a V. F. W. hall in Mohave Valley, Ariz. for a high school graduate named Resha Kane. After the meal, she was to be taken by motorcycle escort to Las Vegas, to catch a flight to Fort Hood, where she would begin her Army career in exchange for college tuition. I called my good friend Mr. Franco  —   who, of course, got it immediately. We flew out the next day, and were present when Ms. Kane, who looked much younger than her 18 years, said her goodbyes. Mr. Franco’s memorable photograph of this young woman in fatigues, saying goodbye to her father  —   the fear of her unknown, of our unknown, conveyed in her eyes  —   hangs in the newsroom. Once again he had noticed, and captured, that small and quiet moment. Working closely with Mr. Franco for two years, I could not help but be blown away by his fierce dedication to his art, by his determination to capture a moment’s essence  —   and by his unflagging reportorial curiosity, which led to my favorite moments on assignment: the evening debriefing. Sitting in a booth at a Chili’s or Texas Roadhouse hard against some interstate, Mr. Franco and I would pore over what we had just seen and heard, comparing notes, dissecting motives, framing The Story to come. One modest testament to Mr. Franco’s art is in how I remember our travels. It’s not my opening paragraphs or closing kickers that I recall, but rather Mr. Franco’s photographs, which return me so completely to the Mississippi despair of a   FEMA trailer, to the   joy of a small Maine amusement park, to the expansive wonder of a remote South Dakota spot known as the Center of the Nation. It is a rare privilege to see this great country, in all its heartbreaking,   wonder, on the dime of your employer. A rarer privilege, still, to have also seen it through the   eyes of Ángel Franco.