Welcome to Breitbart News’s live updates of the 2016 horse race. GOP presidential candidates Donald Trump, Ted Cruz, and John Kasich will participate in a CNN town hall event in Wisconsin tonight and answer questions from voters.   —   All times eastern. 10:55: Kasich he has not talked with the Cruz campaign to strategize on how to deny Trump the delegates he needs to secure the nomination. But he says that campaigns always talked “and I’m not in the middle of that” and he hasn’t seen Ted since the last debate. He says he is not involved in the “process stuff. ” 10:48: Kasich is asked about a potential vice president and he says that is “like measuring the drapes” and is “so far down the road. ” He says you want to pick someone who you are comfortable with and someone who understands what you are all about but is also unafraid to speak up to you. “You can’t just surround yourself with sycophants,” he says. 10:45: Kasich says he knew Medicaid expansion would not be popular. He also says he fought for corporate welfare reform when asked about unpopular decisions he has made. Kasich tells the questioner he would never believe how hard it was to balance the federal budget but it inspired a new wave of Republicans like Joe Scarborough to run for office. He says he is as much of a   now as he was then. 10:43: Kasich says we have to be careful about litmus tests when asked if he would appoint a Supreme Court Justice who will create a protected class for the unborn.   10:39: A questioner who races sled dogs asks Kasich about his policies on small businesses. Kasich speaks up his record in Ohio. He says small businesses pay virtually no taxes in Ohio and he wants to lower the income tax nationally. He says we also have to be careful not to snuff out the small lending businesses (community banks). He says the overregulation of the big banks have put smaller banks, which best know people in the local communities, go out of business. Kasich also talks about workforce development. He says kids should be educated for jobs that exist. 10:37: Kasich is asked whether he would support the GOP nominee. Kasich says “maybe I won’t answer it either. ” He says when you are in the arena, you develop respect for people who are in the arena. But he says he has been disturbed by some of the things he has seen and he wants to see how it “finishes out. ” He says he sure hopes the other candidates endorse him for president when he gets the nomination at the convention. “Frankly, all of us shouldn’t even have answered the question,” Kasich says. Kasich says if the nominee is someone who is   the country, “I can’t stand behind him. ” 10:30: Questioner asks Kasich why European security still remains the responsibility of Americans when Europeans are wealthy enough to defend themselves. Kasich says because “that’s what leaders do” but says the Europeans can do more. Kasich says “we don’t want to have those relationships deteriorate” or “be eliminated” because “we need to have a strong Western Europe. ” Kasich says we should arm Ukraine. He says we should tell Europe they need to do more and use whatever leverage we have to get them to do more but America has always carried most of the burden in his lifetime. Kasich says you can’t knock all the pieces off the chessboard when you get frustrated. 10:26: Kasich says we need to have “open and free trade. ” He says U. S. cars got better when Japanese cars came into the country. But he says when countries cheat on trade agreements, “we need to call them on it. ” Kasich says when other countries cheat, “I will act as president of the United States. ” He says Wisconsin fans would not put up with Ohio State asking for five downs (tell that to Missouri!) while the Badgers got four downs and we shouldn’t put up with countries that cheat. Kasich says he can say all kinds of things to get people stirred up but leaders say things that are unpopular re: his support for the   Partnership. He says he was one of the most unpopular governors and now is one of the most popular. 10:23: Student who is leaning towards Trump says that the Brussels attacks highlighted the problem with neighborhoods that are hotbeds of terrorism. He asks if Kasich supports Cruz’s proposal to patrol Muslim neighborhoods. Kasich says he agrees with Bratton that Cruz’s idea is “ridiculous. ” Kasich says Muslims won’t help the government find the bad guys if the government patrols their neighborhoods. 10:22: Questioner wonders if “ ” forces will rise like they have been in Europe. Kasich says we “have to protect the border. That is a given. ” He wants a   program. Kasich again says he wants a path to “legalization” and “not a path to citizenship” for illegal immigrants. Kasich says we need “healing” in America and his solution is “reasonable. ” 10:21: Kasich makes a good point that he led the fight to balance the budget in the 1990s and the GOP Congress spent it. 10:17: Questioner asks Kasich about expanding Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion. He is asked why he chose the   solution. Kasich points out that the Milwaukee   endorsed him today. Kasich says he wanted to take care of the poor and   and   Ohioans. He says that was the “compassionate” thing to do. Kasich claims he is not for Obamacare because he did not accept the exchanges. 10:14: Kasich says his top strategist Weaver get a “little  ” and didn’t know of his Tweet about “Lyin’ Ted” and he’ll have a word with him later on in the night. 10:12: Kasich says we can’t police Muslim neighborhoods because we can’t risk polarizing those already in the civilized world. 10:08: When asked about Brussels, Kasich says we need better worldwide intelligence and the U. S. president can rally the world to destroy people who want to destroy us. He wants to change NATO into a   organization that works across boundaries. He says it is “absurd” to suggest like Trump that NATO is “obsolete. ” But he concedes that NATO countries won’t do as much as we want. 10:06: Kasich says he is best positioned to defeat Clinton in the fall and has more experience than anyone other than Clinton. He says he was ignored in most of the debates and people have just started paying attention in the last month. 10:05: Kasich says he hasn’t seen the Lewandowski video but has heard it was definitive and he would fire him if he were his campaign manager. 10:00: Kasich on deck. 9:57: Questioner says  her father is impressed with all of his kids and wonders why Trump can’t be more like his sons who are so “  and calm. ” Trump says “I hear that. ” Trump says he gets so many compliments on his children. Trump says his children have “great heart” and have a “wonderful, wonderful feeling” for people. Trump says the world is taking advantage of the United States and driving us to be a   nation. “It’s time to rebuild our country,” Trump says. Cooper wonders if Trump will call his new grandson “Cryin’ Ted. ” Trump says no chance. Trump then asks, “Isn’t Ted’s real name Rafael?” 9:55: A Wisconsin Dairy Farmer who is leaning towards Trump asks him about immigration. Trump says he doesn’t want to affect business but people must come in “legally” through visa programs and it will work out “beautifully. ” He then shifts to trade and says other countries are not accepting U. S. goods while we accept their goods without tax. He says we will straighten out our trade policies so Americans will get a lot more business. 9:54: Trump says town halls are much better than debates. He says more debates aren’t necessary because the same people just keep asking the same questions. 9:50: Trump is asked when he has learned from something and changed his behavior. Trump says he believes in flexibility and negotiate great deals and “it’s not all about signing executive orders. ” Cooper is doing a good job of getting the candidates to actually answer the question. Trump says he has changed course on “many, many things. ” Trump says he is now   and he was originally   and he has “evolved” and “made certain changes. ” When Cooper asks when was the last time Trump has apologized for something, Trump answers, “Oh, Wow. ” Trump says he believes in apologizing if he is wrong. Trump says he apologized to his mother for using foul language and to his wife for not acting presidential. Trump says “my biggest problems are repeats and  . ”  9:46: Trump says he assumes Paul Ryan is “being straight with me” but he has been reading reports that Ryan is having “clandestine” meetings to potentially get the nomination at a contested convention. Trump says people who have never voted before are now voting for him. Trump mentions he got a few hundred more votes in Missouri. And Trump says it’s “bad politics” that someone who wins the election gets fewer delegates in Louisiana than the person who lost. Final #’s just announced in the GREAT State of MO. TRUMP WINS! New certified #’s show a 365 vote increase for   @ least 12 more delegates!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 30, 2016,  9:45: Trump: Romney should root for us instead of being a “negative force. ” Trump says one of the biggest stories politics is all of the new voters turning out to vote for him and getting engaged in politics. Trump slams Cruz’s for his campaign’s dirty tricks against “honorable” Ben Carson and he says he watched Cruz and saw how “tormented he was” when asked if he would support the GOP nominee. “I don’t want his support. I don’t need his support. I want him to be comfortable,” Trump says of Cruz. He says he doesn’t want to make people like    and others he has driven out of the race to “do something against their will. ” Now Trump says he is a “unifier” and claims “some day you will see that. ” 9:42: Trump says no longer promises to support the GOP nominee and he doesn’t need Cruz’s support. He wants the support of the people. He says the RNC, the Republican Party and the establishment have treated him “unfairly. ” He now blasts Romney. [Tony Lee: This town hall should be another   call for Trump and his campaign. As I’ve said before, Trump is a hurler who throws gas, but he isn’t a pitcher yet. A thrower can’t beat Clinton in a general election. When asked about the federal government’s responsibilities, Trump should have said controlling illegal immigration and enforcing the country’s immigration laws. A gigantic opportunity missed. And another unforced error.] 9:36: Trump says the New York Times mocked him for saying Belgium was a “hellhole” and he has been proven right. He says NATO should be “rejiggered” and there are countries in NATO that are “getting a free ride” and “it’s unfair. ” He says the United States can’t be the policemen of the world and “we have to rebuild our own country. ” Trump says we have very big problems in our country. He says NATO has to be changer or “we have to do something. ” 9:34: Questioner asks Trump why he believes the U. S. Should have a diminishing role in NATO. Trump says NATO doesn’t cover terrorism and it has to be changed for the better and “we’re paying too much” for NATO. 9:32: Trump says he is in for about $35 million and he claims he has never even thought about whether his campaign would pay him back down the line. Trump says there is “no influence over me. ” He says   and gas are giving Cruz a lot of money while he is fundraising off of selling his “Make America Great” hats. 9:28: Trump is asked what, in his opinion, are the top three functions of the U. S. government. Trump says “security, health care, education. ” But he says the top three are “security, security, security” so we can continue to exist as a country. He says thousands are infiltrating our country and “we don’t know who they are. ” Cooper points out that Trump has said he is against Common Core and wonders why is thinks education is one of the top functions of government. Same with health care. 9:26: Trump is asked what he would say to people who claim he has not been successful in business. Trump says he started off with a $1 million loan from his father that he paid back. He says he started with $1 million and is now worth $10 billion. 9:24: Trump says we have to look “very seriously” at the mosques. Trump says he trust many Muslims but “some, I guess, we don’t. ” Trump says we can be politically correct and pretend we don’t have a problem but “this is a war. ” He says the difference is the terrorists don’t have uniforms and we don’t know who they are. 9:20: Questioner points out that 99% of people who wear turbans are Sikhs and how America can fight radical Islam while protecting the Constitution. Trump says we have a “serious” problem with radical Islam. He says he thought he would go down in the polls after calling for a temporary ban on Muslims but instead he went up in the polls. Trump says we have a “very, very serious problem” with radical Islam and “if we don’t want to discuss it, if we don’t want to look at it,” then we won’t solve the problem. He says we have no choice but to wipe ISIS “violently” off the face of the earth. He says he was against the Iraq War but we have no choice but to be “very vigilant,” smart, and “tough. ” He says thousands of people are entering the country from Syria and we have no idea who they are. He says they have no paperwork, no identification. Cooper asks Trump how he will protect the rights of minorities as the questioner ask. Trump says he wants to do that but we have a serious problem with radical Islam. 9:17: Trump says he thinks the Twitter photo he   of Heidi Cruz was a “fine” picture of her. When Trump says “I didn’t start it,” Cooper says Trump is making the argument of a    child. Trump says he would love to leave wives out of it and talk about nuclear proliferation but “I didn’t send the photo to everybody in the state of Utah. He did it. ” Trump says he doesn’t let things go so easy and he would let other countries taking advantage of the U. S on trade, etc. He insists that Cruz’s friends and allies are running the   group that sent around his wife’s GQ photo to voters in Utah. 9:14: Cooper keeps grilling Trump about allowing   Korea to get nuclear weapons. Trump suggests Japan must pay the United States or protect itself. Cooper asks Trump if he doesn’t want more nuclear weapons but is okay with Japan having nuclear weapons. Trump keeps evading the question as Cooper keeps pressing him to answer the question like he did with Cruz. Trump says he would rather see Japan having some form of defense and maybe some offense against North Korea. Trump: “The only global warming I’m worried about is nuclear global warming. ”  —   daveweigel (@daveweigel) March 30, 2016,  9:10: Trump says the phone rang and Clinton wasn’t there “unless Sydney called. ” Trump says of all the people running, he is the only one who can solve the terror problem in Pakistan. Trump says Pakistan is a “vital problem” and country because they have nuclear weapons. Trump says he will solve radical Islamic terrorism “far better than anyone else. ” Trump gets boos after suggesting the Cruz supporters in the audience were planted by CNN.  —   Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) March 30, 2016,  9:08: Trump Fields should not have been   him and she wasn’t supposed to be asking questions because the press conference had ended. Now Trump says Fields’s pen could “have been a knife. ” MILWAUKEE  —   Trump on CNN has crowd laughing: ”My arm, it’s never been the same folks.”  —   Kevin Cirilli (@kevcirilli) March 30, 2016,  ”My arm has never been the same folks.”   —   Donald Trump eviscerating Michelle Fields #GOPTownHall,  —   Mike Mack (@MikeMacck) March 30, 2016,  9:06: Trump says Lewandowski did not “mislead him. ” He says the video “exonerates him totally. ” Cruz says Fields changed her story when she found out there were security cameras. Trump says the problem is everybody dumps people when there is a “sign of political incorrectness. ” Trump now asks Cooper, “a professional announcer,” to read Fields’s initial statement. “Did she almost fall to the ground?” Trump asks. pic. twitter.   —   Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) March 30, 2016,  Cooper responds: “No, she did not go down to the ground. ” Trump says it would be so easy to “terminate” his campaign manger and ruin his life. He says he has fired many people, especially on the Apprentice.  Trump says Fields was “off base” because she went against the wishes of the Secret Service. He says Fields had a pen in her hand and it could have been “a little bomb. ” 9:05: Cooper asks Trump about Lewandowski. Trump says he will continue as his campaign manager after reviewing the tape. Trump says Wisconsin voters are “shaking their heads  …     gimme a break. ” Trump says Cruz’s home state is Texas though it may be Canada. 9:02: Disturbing image outside GOP town hall in Wisconsin: pic. twitter.   —   Noah Gray CNN (@NoahGrayCNN) March 29, 2016,  9:00: Trump is on deck. 8:52: When asked about how he would ensure there are more qualified manufacturing workers in the U. S. Cruz says we “must reform education” and that is why Common Core must be eliminated. He says he will also abolish the Dept. of Education to   money back to Wisconsin. He also talks up school choice as well (good move in Milwaukee) and says school choice is the “civil rights movement of the 21st century. ” 8:49: Cruz vows there will be accountability in the VA if he is president. He says there needs to be reforms so veterans have the power to choose their own doctors. Cruz tells questioner, who lost his veteran son to an opioid overdose, that he lost his sister to a drug overdose and they are in the same “horrible club. ” 8:45: Questioner asks Cruz what he has done and will do to persuade women to vote for him. Cruz says he has been blessed to have been surrounded by strong women. He says he admires his mom immensely and says she grew up in a   family in Delaware and was the first person in her family to go to college. He says his mother stood up to her father, who thought women should not be educated, and went to Rice and then got hired at Shell as a computer programmer. Cruz says his mother deliberately didn’t learn how to type when a man asked her to type something for him, she could, with a clean conscience, say she didn’t know how to type and so he would have to use her has a computer programmer. He also speaks about Heidi and how he gets upset seeing the “garbage” and “nonsense” she has had to deal with in the business world. 8:42: Cruz is asked how he would protect America while protecting civil liberties. Cruz says “you can walk and chew gum at the same time. ” He says the Obama administration is not good at distinguishing between good guys and bad guys. 8:40: Cruz Now Won’t Commit to Supporting Trump If He’s GOP Nominee: Cruz says he is not in the habit of supporting someone who attacks his   (“should be off limits”). He says he is not an easy person to “tick off” but “when you go after my wife, my daughters, that does it. ” He says he wants the race to be focused on   and “if other candidates don’t, that’s beyond the pale. ” When asked if he would support Trump if he is the nominee, Cruz says he will defeat Trump. He says nominating Trump would be a “train wreck” and it would hand the election to Clinton. Cooper asked him three times. FLASHBACK: During the March 3 debate, Cruz said in response to the same question: “Yes, because I gave my word that I would. I keep my word. ” 8:35: Protesters demonstrating outside of GOP town hall in Wisconsin: Three lines of police hold their position as protestors calmly demonstrate outside #GOPTownHall pic. twitter.   —   Noah Gray CNN (@NoahGrayCNN) March 30, 2016,  8:32: Dairy Farmer asks Cruz about immigration. Cruz says Arizona is spending millions less on   for illegals, which means there are hundreds of millions more to take care of Americans while median wages have gone up for plumbers, carpenters. He says “our immigration laws should benefit American workers. That should be the focus of our immigration laws. ” Cruz cites this Wall Street Journal story: “The Thorny Economics of Illegal Immigration. ” Cruz says in the agricultural industry, the first option should be to find American workers. He says legal immigration should come in when there are not enough American workers to do the job. ”There are farmers across this country who are really hurting,” Cruz tells a Wisconsin dairy farmer, citing govt regulations.  —   Betsy Klein (@betsy_klein) March 30, 2016,  8:30: Kasich campaign now slams “Lyin’ Ted. ” Teaming up with Cruz like teaming with a creature from Jurassic World, without the integrity. #NoThanks #Hungreyforshorttermglory #loser,  —   John Weaver (@JWGOP) March 30, 2016,  Lyin’ Ted, on every level. 0 Friends: tells story. 0 Record: tells history. 0 Vision: tells future. 0 chance: tells desperation. #cruzloser,  —   John Weaver (@JWGOP) March 29, 2016,  Lyin’ Ted https:  .   —   Mike Schrimpf (@mike_schrimpf) March 29, 2016,  8:27: Questioner who is leaning towards Cruz asks him whether the   in politics is a good example to be setting for America’s youth. Cruz says he worries about what lessons kids take watching presidential candidates insulting each other, yelling, cursing, attacking family members. Cruz says just when you think it can’t get uglier, it gets uglier. He says he has no ability to control what another candidate does but he promised his supporters that “we’re going to work every day with a joyful spirit” and “we’re going to do so with integrity. ” Cruz says he has worked very hard this election cycle to not go in the gutter and respond in kind when he was personally attacked. He says he hopes that prevails in the end. 8:24: Questioner asks Cruz what he would regard as his greatest personal failure and what he would learn from it. Cruz says those are always “tricky questions. ” Cruz says he is a “pretty driven guy” and that has “pros and cons. ” He says he believes passionately in   principles and he memorized the Constitution as a teenager. He talks about how his father was imprisoned and tortured in Cuba and says it is an amazing thing to grow up in a house with someone who fled oppression. He says there was always an “urgency to politics” because having principled   in office is how you prevent tyranny. Cruz says while growing up in a   household, there were Republicans and Communists. He says his   nature is a “strength and a weakness. ” He says “what you see is what you get though” and “you know what you’re going to get in office. ” Cruz says we need a president voters can trust to follow through in office. 8:17: Questioner asks Cruz if he will send an overwhelming force to send a message to ISIS. Cruz says Obama was not focused on America’s national interest when taking out Qaddafi in Libya. He says as a result, Libya was handed over to radical Islamic terrorists while   were focused on spreading democracy. As Cruz sounds like a Senator, Cooper does a good job of trying to get Cruz to directly answer the question in less than 78 hours. Cruz says America’s focus in Syria should be toppling ISIS and not Assad. Cooper asks Cruz in order to topple ISIS, would he be willing to send ground troops. He says he will do whatever it takes militarily. Cruz cites overwhelming air power. When Cooper asks Cruz about carpet bombing, Cruz says “nobody has talked about targeting civilian areas. ” Cruz just got catty and snide with Anderson Cooper. Not good. He’s not answering the question. He’s just rattling on. Never answered.    —   RealVinnieJames (@RealVinnieJames) March 30, 2016,  8:15: Questioner asks Cruz about the role of religion in   process. Cruz says his faith is an “integral part of who I am. ” He says he is a Christian and isn’t going to hide from that. He says there have been far too many politicians who go around acting like they are “holier than thou. ” Cruz says he is asking voters to vote for him because he has spent a lifetime fighting for the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and free enterprise. He says the Bill of Rights protects all religions —  even atheists. He says the   of Rights is a “unifying principle” that can bring Americans of all    together. 8:14: Cruz whines that mainstream media networks have given Trump tons of air time. COOPER POINTS OUT THAT HE HAS ASKED CRUZ FOR INTERVIEWS AND HIS CAMPAIGN HAS REPEATEDLY DECLINED HIS REQUESTS. [Can’t have it both ways.] When Cruz accuses media of showering Trump with free publicity, Anderson Cooper tells Cruz he regularly invites Cruz on and Cruz declines.  —   Teddy Davis (@TeddyDavisCNN) March 30, 2016,  The media totally failed to vet Trump and instead has been providing nothing but fawning, lapdog coverage like this: pic. twitter.   —   Steve Kornacki (@SteveKornacki) March 29, 2016,  8:13: Cooper asks Cruz if he has any proof the Trump campaign planted the story (Rubio allies reportedly shopped the story around for months). Cruz says “of course I do” when Cooper says he doesn’t know for a fact that Trump’s campaign planted the story. 8:12: Cruz says America should “not make the mistakes of Europe” and actively work to stop radical Islamic terrorists. 8:08: When asked about patrolling Muslim neighborhoods, Cruz says there was a “horrific” attack in Brussels and Obama could barely be stopped to say anything about it while at a baseball game with a Communist dictator in Cuba. He slams Obama for not saying the words “radical Islamic terrorism. ” Cruz says Obama just lectures Americans about Islamophobia after terrorist attacks. Cooper keeps pressing Cruz on what it means to patrol Muslim neighborhoods and Cruz keeps trying to buy time. Now he speaks about the difference between Islam and Islamism. Cooper again asks him what he means by his comments re: patrolling Muslim neighborhoods. Cruz says Obama, Clinton, Bratton attacked him for his comments and he wears that criticism as a “badge of honor. ” Cruz says de Blasio gave into political correctness and shut down the NYPD’s Muslim surveillance programs. 8:07: Cruz says a contested convention is possible he will be in a “very strong position” if there is one. 8:05: Cruz says Kasich has no path to winning and his campaign is competing to win and not just to stop Trump. 8:03: Cooper congratulates Cruz for securing Walker’s endorsement. Cruz says he would ask Lewandowski to resign if he were his campaign manager. Cruz says there is no place in politics for physical violence and “going to the gutter. ” Cooper points out that it is “highly improbable” for Cruz to secure 85% of the delegates remaining to secure the nomination. Cruz says when there are two guys in the woods and a bear starts chasing them, you just have to outrun the other guy. Cruz says Trump benefits from “division” because he has a floor of a about 25%. Cruz says Trump will have a difficult time reaching 50% in a    battle with him. 8:02: Each candidate will get an hour at CNN’s town hall event in Milwaukee. Cruz is up first. 8:00: Video of former Miss Wisconsin Thanking Trump for His Support While She Is Battling An Incurable Disease: Here’s the letter she wrote Trump: Read Miss Wisconsin 2005 Melissa Young’s letter to Donald Trump thanking him (she just did it in person) https:  .   —   Steven Dennis (@StevenTDennis) March 29, 2016,  7:04: Trump says Cruz won the Texas GOP primary only because of “the Great Sarah Palin. ” And then he again says Democrats will sue him if he is the nominee re: eligibility: Trump says Dems will sue Cruz on Canadian birth: ”I think they’re right because he wasn’t born on our soil. He’s not a natural born citizen”  —   Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) March 29, 2016,  Trump holding town hall in Wisconsin: 6:47: Trump says the easiest thing to do would be to say “Corey, you’re fired!” But he says he can’t and then says Fields’s facial expression didn’t change and she didn’t scream. Trump says the video shows Fields didn’t fall to the ground and her statement changed “big league” before she knew she was on tape. Trump is now reading Fields’s initial statement in the same way he reads the lyrics to Al Wilson’s “The Snake. ” Trump tells crowd in Wisconsin Lewandowski stays: ”the easiest thing.. Corey you’re fired.. I can’t do that.”  —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) March 29, 2016,  6:37: Trump praises Aaron Rodgers. He says Tom Brady told him Rodgers is a “great quarterback. ” 6:35: Trump says Cruz pretends to be an outsider while getting all of the support from the establishment. 6:25: Scene outside of Trump’s Wisconsin rally: Trump Supporter Holding Up “Charlie Sykes Sucks” Sign, ”Charlie Sykes Sucks”  —   front of the poster reads ”Wisconsin Loves Trump” #TrumpJanesville pic. twitter.   —   MacIver Institute (@MacIverWisc) March 29, 2016,  Supporters listening via speakers set up outside #TrumpJanesville pic. twitter.   —   MacIver Institute (@MacIverWisc) March 29, 2016,  Trump supporters and protesters clashing outside venue #TrumpJanesville pic. twitter.   —   MacIver Institute (@MacIverWisc) March 29, 2016,  (Profanity) Protesters escorted from #Trump event, one appears to have been pepper sprayed #TrumpJanesville #wiright pic. twitter.   —   MacIver Institute (@MacIverWisc) March 29, 2016,  6:18: Trump says you need mouth, brain, and heart to succeed: Trump: wouldn’t it be nice to have a President who could just with his mouth make things happen? (Talking about bringing down Bush and Paul,  —   Kristen Holmes (@KristenhCNN) March 29, 2016,  Trump: ”I have a lot of friends, they’re good with the mouth, they’re not good with the brain.”  —   Jessica Taylor (@JessicaTaylor) March 29, 2016,  6:14: Trump says we can’t have countries like China, Vietnam, Mexico “ripping us off. ” Trump says he’s going to be in Wisconsin for the whole week “because if we win in Wisconsin,” it’s “going to be over. ” 6:08: At a Wisconsin rally, Trump says he is beating Cruz by millions of votes and he is just a “messenger. ” Trump says he has written down some notes about Wisconsin and “it’s devastating. ” Trump says Walker “certainly can’t endorse me after what I did to him in the race. ” He says there are 20, 000 fewer people in the labor force than seven years ago. He says the middle class in Wisconsin has been hit “very hard” due to losses in manufacturing jobs. He mentions that Wisconsin has lots tons of jobs to Mexico because of NAFTA and   both want TPP, which will make “NAFTA look like a baby. ” Trump says he is criticizing Walker because he endorsed Cruz. After hitting Wisconsin’s economy this week, Trump ribs Scott Walker, saying he ”doesn’t look like a motorcycle guy.”  —   Ben Siegel (@benyc) March 29, 2016,  5:10: Massive line for Trump event in Janesville, Wisconsin: The line for the #Trump rally in Janesville is massive pic. twitter.   —   Tim Pool (@Timcast) March 29, 2016,  Trump supporters and protestors line up outside Janesville Conference Center #NBC15 https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   nbc15_madison (@nbc15_madison) March 29, 2016,  Trump Janesville rally sort of a logistical disaster. At least 4000 people in line for venue that holds closer to 1000,  —   daveweigel (@daveweigel) March 29, 2016,    4:58: Trump says he was ahead of public opinion (majority now support a Muslim ban) on a  temporary Muslim ban and blasts NATO again: Trump on NATO: ”It’s old, it’s fat, it’s sloppy and it doesn’t talk about terrorism.”  —   Rebekah Metzler (@rebekahmetzler) March 29, 2016,  4:50: Trump says Megyn Kelly is only successful because she follows Bill O’Reilly. 4:47: Trump says he would have fired Lewandowski in “two seconds” had he pulled Fields down. Trump says he advised Lewandowski to not settle. Trump says Fields’s initial statement sounded like she got “thrown off of the building. ” Trump says Fields’s facial expression never changed at all. He says “no jury would convict a man” and “destroy a man” over that tape. Trump: ”How do you know those bruises weren’t there before?”  —   Jessica Taylor (@JessicaTaylor) March 29, 2016,  4:45: Trump says his policies will not “increase hate” because it will increase jobs, profits. He says “there’s a lot of hate in Wisconsin” and gives Walker credit for “withstanding it” but also doesn’t give him credit because “you want to bring people together. ” 4:43: Trump says “the motorcycle people” love me. “It’s like my highest demographic,” he says. Trump adds that Walker is a “nice person” but cites the “statistics on what’s happening with jobs” in Wisconsin. Trump says Walker “gave up” and “quit” very early and his “poll numbers went way down” because “his numbers are horrible in Wisconsin. ” 4:41: Trump talks about trade. He says “our jobs are being sucked away. ” He says Walker “went way down” because he gave all of the statistics on how bad Wisconsin’s job environment was and “he couldn’t dispute them. ” 4:38: Trump says he hopes Lewandowski’s role will not change. Trump says people “see what took place” and “it’s so minor. ” Trump said reporters have said the incident was “minor” and it’s a very “sad” day when a “man can be destroyed” over something that “minor. ” Trump reiterates that Fields grabbed him first.  “How could someone be charged for that?” Trump says. 4:35: On his plane before his Janesville rally, Trump claims campaign manger was “maligned. ” Trump: ”If you look at that tape, [Lewandowski] was very very seriously maligned.”  —   Jessica Taylor (@JessicaTaylor) March 29, 2016,  4:29: Rubio Trying to Keep His Delegates from Trump: JUST IN: Rubio trying to keep his delegates from Trump: report https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Hill (@thehill) March 29, 2016,  3:58: Cruz to keynote North Dakota GOP Convention: Texas Sen. Ted Cruz will provide keynote to #NorthDakota GOP convention on Saturday. #NDPol,  —   Nick Smith (@NSmithReports) March 29, 2016,  3:43: Lewandowski Interview Postponed: interview on @oreillyfactor   @CLewandowski_ has been postponed,  —   Greta Van Susteren (@greta) March 29, 2016,  3:42: Another Tweet from Trump: Why is this reporter touching me as I leave news conference? What is in her hand?? pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016,  3:40: Scene at Wisconsin Holiday Inn Where Trump Will Speak Before Town Hall: Police in military style uniforms providing security at Trump event in Wisconsin. pic. twitter.   —   Jim Acosta (@Acosta) March 29, 2016,  Media preparing for Trump Rally. Only 1000 can fit in conference room where he’ll speak in 90 mins @tmj4 #tmj4 https:  .   —   Julia Fello TMJ4 (@JuliaFello) March 29, 2016,  Trump is stumping at the Holiday Inn in my hometown of Janesville, WI. I hope he makes Holiday Inn Express again! pic. twitter.   —   pete lee (@peteleetweets) March 29, 2016,  Massive, winding line for Trump supporters waiting to get inside #Janesville rally pic. twitter.   —   Julia Fello TMJ4 (@JuliaFello) March 29, 2016,  Faint voices next to line of #Trump supporters waiting to get in chant ”Dump Trump” @tmj4 #tmj4 https:  .   —   Julia Fello TMJ4 (@JuliaFello) March 29, 2016,  Massive law enforcement presence at Holiday Inn Express in Janesville, even on roof hours before Trump speaks @tmj4 pic. twitter.   —   Julia Fello TMJ4 (@JuliaFello) March 29, 2016,  3:30: Lewandowski on O’Reilly’s Show Tonight: Lewandowski will be on O’Reilly Factor tonight.  —   Hadas Gold (@Hadas_Gold) March 29, 2016,  3:20: Kasich Comments on Charges Against Lewandowski: More from my question to @JohnKasich on Trump campaign manager charged. pic. twitter.   —   Kelly O’Donnell (@KellyO) March 29, 2016,  More Kasich on Lewandowski charges: Understanding is ”completely inappropriate,” mentions his daughters  …     pic. twitter.   —   Kailani Koenig (@kailanikm) March 29, 2016,    John Kasich’s full response to Lewandowski question  —    tells @KellyO in gaggle ”We probably would suspend somebody” pic. twitter.   —   Kailani Koenig (@kailanikm) March 29, 2016,  3:10: Trump Keeps Tweeting: Victory press conference was over. Why is she allowed to grab me and shout questions? Can I press charges? pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016,  This was the reporters   when she found out there was tape from my facility, she changed her tune. pic. twitter.   —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016,  3:05: Piers Morgan Offers His Take: If a male reporter tried to claim this was ’battery’ he’d be rightly mocked. Toughen up, @MichelleFields. https:  .   —   Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) March 29, 2016,  2:40: More Good Numbers for Trump in National Poll: New @ppppolls: Trump 42% Cruz 32% Kasich 22%  : Trump 46% Cruz 44% 58% comfortable   nominee Trump. 53% for Cruz, 49% for Kasich.  —   Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) March 29, 2016,  2:39: Top Kasich Strategist: Lewandowski Would Be Fired If He Worked for Kasich: . @JohnKasich chief strategist John Weaver on Trump campaign manager: ”If he worked for John Kasich he would be fired.”  —  @bgittleson,  —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) March 29, 2016,  2:38: Top Clinton Surrogate Brock Now Giving Advice to Trump Campaign: Fire Lewandowski: . @davidbrockdc to @realDonaldTrump: Tell @CLewandowski_ ”You’re fired!” https:  .   —   Correct The Record (@CorrectRecord) March 29, 2016,  2:37: William McGurn in the Wall Street Journal: Trump Can Defeat Hillary.    2:36: Sanders’s Team Argues He’s Better Candidate in General Election: Just in: 6p memo from Sanders pollster @TulchinResearch detailing his general elex rationale https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Gabriel Debenedetti (@gdebenedetti) March 29, 2016,  2:35: Sanders Supporters Start #ToneDownForWhat Campaign Against Team Clinton: #ToneDownForWhat: Bernie Sanders supporters rally against Hillary Clinton on Twitter https:  .   —   billboard (@billboard) March 29, 2016,  2:33: Clinton now railing against “  wage. ” Clinton is speaking out against the subminimum wage https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Atlantic (@TheAtlantic) March 29, 2016,  2:31: Trump Has Huge Lead in Another National Poll: New @NBCNews   Monkey poll: Trump has nearly 50% of Republicans support nationally: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   MSNBC Live   (@TamronMSNBC) March 29, 2016,  2:29: Trump Spokeswoman Claims accuses Fields of just wanting attention: “What we have seen over time is the story did change a little bit,” Pierson said. “She didn’t even go to the authorities for a couple of days after the attention started to rev up. I think we will see moving forward she wasn’t too concerned about the reaction initially. She didn’t contact the campaign or the authorities. She didn’t contact anyone other than Twitter when the alleged incident occurred. ” “A lot of these bloggers think they are known, and they really aren’t,” Pierson said about Lewandowski’s claim that he has never met or seen Fields prior to the alleged battery. “The allegation is he grabbed her aggressively and threw her to the ground. That did not happen,” Pierson said.   2:25: Kasich in Wisconsin: Lots of policy questions at Kasich’s town hall in Waukesha, Wis. He’s now discussing health care costs. pic. twitter.   —   Thomas Kaplan (@thomaskaplan) March 29, 2016,  2:20: Cruz responds to charges against Trump Campaign Manager Lewandowski: JUST IN: @tedcruz responds to the Lewandowski news, says ”it’s a very sad development” (via @VaughnHillyard): pic. twitter.   —   Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) March 29, 2016,  . @tedcruz calls Lewandowski charges ”the consequence of the culture of the Trump campaign.” https:  . :  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) March 29, 2016, 