Monday on CNN’s “The Lead,” Libertarian Party presidential candidate and former governor of New Mexico Gary Johnson defended former Massachusetts governor and current vice presidential nominee on the Libertarian party ticket William Weld saying presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s immigration policy is like the infamous Kristallnacht night of the Holocaust.  Johnson added that Trump’s plan to build a wall at the border and to deport the 11 to 12 million undocumented immigrants was “insanity. ” When asked about Trump’s proposals, Johnson said, “Insanity comes to mind. Look, this is really rooted in misinformation. They are the cream of the crop when it comes to workers. They are not murders and rapists. Statistically, they commit far less crime than U. S. citizens. We should make it as easy as possible for somebody that wants to come into this country and work, to be able to get a work visa. A work visa should entail a background check and Social Security card so that taxes will get paid. Government is responsible for these illegal immigrants because the jobs here exist. They can’t get across the border. They are just like you or I or the families supporting our families, just trying to make lives better for themselves. Really rooted in misinformation. They are not taking jobs that U. S. citizens want. ” When asked if he stands by Weld’s comments, Johnson said, “Absolutely. Absolutely. What are we going to do? In New Mexico here, is my door going to be knocked down because I’m going to get checked for papers? And with regard to deporting 11 million illegal immigrants? Jake, there’s just so much misinformation here. The fact that decades ago when illegal immigrants came across the border to work, it was undocumented workers. Look, to this day, we have community leaders in New Mexico that are illegal immigrants who have had children who have had children  —   and we’re going to now come in and knock down doors and they are going to be deported? It would be like putting them on the moon. ” Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN