On the heels of an announcement from department store giant Target that transgender shoppers and employees may use whichever bathroom they choose in Target stores, a campaign to boycott the chain was launched, garnering more than 200, 000 signatures in a single day. [The original April 19 announcement by the chain informed customers that “inclusivity is a core belief at Target,” adding, “It’s something we celebrate. We stand for equality and equity, and strive to make our guests and team members feel accepted, respected and welcomed in our stores and workplaces every day. ”  The retailer went on to say, “We welcome transgender team members and guests to use the restroom or fitting room facility that corresponds with their gender identity. ” “Everyone deserves to feel like they belong,” the statement concluded. “You’ll always be accepted, respected and welcomed at Target. ” The issue is fostering intense debate, and the original Breitbart News story about the store’s announcement garnered more than 79, 000 Facebook shares and more than 45, 000 comments in only a few days. Naturally, it was not long before a boycott effort was launched. Only days after the Target announcement, the American Family Association (AFA) launched its #BoycottTarget petition urging followers to boycott the chain because Target “would allow men to use the women’s restrooms and dressing rooms in their stores. ” The AFA petition proved so popular that it earned more than 200, 000 signatures in a single day, AFA said. By the weekend, it had reached an excess of 300, 000. “Corporate America must stop bullying people who disagree with the radical left agenda to remake society into their progressive image,” AFA President Tim Wildmon said on Friday. AFA insists it does not believe every transgender person is a threat to the safety of women and children nonetheless, the group noted that Target’s policy is a danger because “predators and voyeurs would take advantage of the policy to prey on those who are vulnerable. ” Indeed, the number of stories of predators victimizing women and children in public restrooms is growing by the day. In fact, AFA features nearly a dozen such recent stories on its website. Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston or email the author at igcolonel@hotmail. com.