Police officers in Charlotte, North Carolina stood guard Thursday morning and helped local business owners clean up from damage they sustained during violent riots on Wednesday night. [Images shared on social media revealed local businesses vandalized, with their windows broken and merchandise looted as rioters overshadowed “Black Lives Matter” protests. Demonstrators were marching over the death of Keith Lamont Scott, a black man shot and killed by a black police officer.  State troopers and Charlotte police stand with guns drawn outside businesses in Uptown as employees try to clean up the damage. @wsoctv pic. twitter.   —   Mark Barber (@MBarberWSOC9) September 22, 2016,  So much damage in #Charlotte after a night of rioting. Looters only leave hangers behind @WRAL #WRAL pic. twitter.   —   Mikaya Thurmond (@WRALMikaya) September 22, 2016,    On Thursday, police officers stood outside looted businesses with weapons drawn and also helped store owners pick up debris. Also got this video of police officers helping the owners of a business at the Epicenter.  Charlotte Strong! pic. twitter.   —   Dave Faherty (@FahertyWSOC9) September 22, 2016,  In uptown Charlotte talking with property owners about the extensive damage here.  One man fought back tears pic. twitter.   —   Dave Faherty (@FahertyWSOC9) September 22, 2016,  Glass shattered  store looted in #Charlotte’s @EpiCentreNC after last nights protests. Press conference from city expected any moment. pic. twitter.   —   Sarah Rosario (@sarahbrosario) September 22, 2016,  Cleanup going on now at a souvenir shop that was damaged last night in Charlotte. pic. twitter.   —   Jim Dalrymple II (@JimDalrympleII) September 22, 2016,  One woman is picking up trash and glass to clean up #Charlotte. Seen a couple of people doing this today. pic. twitter.   —   Alex Rose (@AlexRoseNews) September 22, 2016,  Cleanup of smashed windows ongoing at the #Charlotte Hilton Garden Inn. #CharlotteProtest @WBTV_News @wis10 pic. twitter.   —   Chad K. Mills (@ChadKMills) September 22, 2016,  Family owners inspect damage to variety store from overnight protests in Charlotte, NC. pic. twitter.   —   Jonathan Serrie (@jonathanserrie) September 22, 2016, 