   Donald Glover made reference to the death of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump while fielding questions from reporters Tuesday about his departure from the television series Community, saying that creative content should have “death clauses” like human beings. [Glover played Troy Barnes on the hit NBC comedy from 2009 to 2014, but left the show rather abruptly before filming began for the sixth and final season. Speaking about his departure from the   comedy, Glover said, “I just like endings. ”  “I think every thing should have death clauses. Thank God, one day Trump is gonna die. That is guaranteed. That is awesome,” Glover said, according to The Hollywood Reporter. “It’s important that things end and   …     I’m glad things end because it forces things to progress. I get really frustrated in the world because I see a lot of things that could be better but aren’t better because things haven’t died yet. ” Glover’s comments came during a discussion at the Television Critics Association press tour to promote his new show Atlanta, set to premiere on FX next month. The new comedy sees Glover, who created and executive produced the show, as “‘Earnest ‘Earn’ Marks,” a college   who attempts to guide his estranged cousin through the perils of rap superstardom. “The thesis with the show was kind of to show people how it felt to be black,” Glover, who raps under the pseudonym Childish Gambino, told reporters. “What was important to me was that this show was personal and had a specific take, because that’s all you can really ask for from a show nowadays, is having a specific point of view on something. ” The first promotional footage for Atlanta was released last month.  Glover says the show will possess a somewhat dark, wistful tone that he hopes will add to the current conversation about racial prejudice in America. “People can get shot and die and you actually care about these characters. ” Glover said of the show. “I always want people to be scared, because that’s kind of how it feels to be black. ” The    actor, who was hired at 21 as a writer for the NBC comedy series 30 Rock, is also releasing a new album in September. In June of 2016, Glover was cast in Marvel Entertainment’s  : Homecoming. Although Glover’s role in the new superhero film is not known, filming is currently underway in Atlanta, Georgia.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson