WASHINGTON DC  —   Sources are reporting that the Russian government is prepared to release private emails that it obtained from Hillary Clinton’s email server, proving Clinton allowed classified information to end up in the hands of foreign adversaries. [Intelligence sources are bracing for the Russian release of Clinton’s intercepted emails, according to a report in the trade publication Oilprice. com:  Reliable intelligence sources in the West have indicated that warnings had been received that the Russian Government could in the near future release the text of email messages intercepted from U. S. Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s private   server from the time she was U. S. Secretary of State. The release would, the messaging indicated, prove that Secretary Clinton had, in fact, laid open U. S. secrets to foreign interception by putting   Government reports onto a private server in violation of U. S. law, and that, as suspected, the server had been targeted and hacked by foreign intelligence services. These sources echo similar reports that Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service has numerous Clinton emails, which it obtained by monitoring the hacker Guccifer, who broke into Clinton adviser Sidney Blumenthal’s email account. Clinton exchanged highly classified national defense information on her private server and kept her own State Department IT desk in the dark about her use of private email. Clinton could be found guilty of violating the Espionage Act if she is found to have allowed that information to be “lost, stolen, or abstracted” through “gross negligence. ” Breitbart News has led the media in reporting on the espionage investigation into Clinton’s email use. Breitbart News first reported, based on   government sources, that “Top Secret” classified emails existed on Clinton’s   private server and that multiple Clinton emails were classified when they were sent. Clinton’s email system was targeted on at least five occasions by   hack attempts. Additionally, Clinton’s   personal Blackberry suffered a security “vulnerability” on her official overseas trip as Secretary of State to China and other East Asian countries. The State Department warned Clinton about the problem and told her not to use her Blackberry anymore for email, but Clinton ignored that warning. The Clinton campaign is currently reeling from an exclusive Breitbart News report showing that she posted and shared the names of   covert intelligence sources on her   server. The scandal, which has been picked up by the Associated Press and others, recalls the Bush administration’s Valerie Plame scandal. Wikileaks founder Julian Assange has also claimed that his organization is in possession of damaging Clinton emails. “We have upcoming leaks in relation to Hillary Clinton, which is great, WikiLeaks has a very big year ahead. We have emails related to Hillary Clinton which are pending publication, that is correct,” Assange said in an interview. Wikileaks has so far released approximately 32, 000 private Clinton emails.