The British mother of “Jihadi Junior” underwent an exorcism because she thought she was possessed by evil spirits sent by Allah, according to new reports. [The    Grace “Khadijah” Dare was raised in a Christian family of Nigerian descent, but converted to Islam as a teenager in 2010 and married a Turkish Muslim, whom she allegedly later divorced because he rejected jihad.  Dare soared to infamy when she flaunted her    son Isa, now nicknamed “Jihadi Junior,” in an ISIS video where militants executed five alleged British spies. In the film, Isa yells: “Kill the kuffar [infidels]. ” Both Grace’s father Henry Dare and her mother Victoria have confirmed that his grandson was the boy in the ISIS video. While attending a mosque allegedly linked to the outlawed group   Dare’s religion was radicalized, allegedly also through online contacts. She divorced her husband and took her young son to Syria in 2012, later marrying Swedish Islamic State militant Abu Bakr. A source connected with Dare’s first husband said that the woman “thought she was possessed by evil spirits” or jinns, and was having “exorcism treatments. ” The source also said that Dare had little maternal love for her son and would leave him anywhere, “like on the floor of the mosque without a blanket,” even when the boy was an infant. When Grace’s Christian mother Victoria saw her grandson in the ISIS video for the first time, she reportedly said: “This is not what God gave me. ” Grace’s father also registered horror on seeing Isa in the video. “That is my grandson  —   I would know him anywhere,” he said. “I couldn’t believe it when I saw the pictures. I felt sick. They are pure evil for doing this to that little child  —   pure evil. I burst into tears when I saw it was him. ” “I spoke to him on the phone and he just said, ‘Granddad, come and get me.’ I am devastated they have used my grandson like that  —   they are using him as a pawn,” he said. Dare, on the other hand, has vowed that she will be the first British woman jihadi to kill a US soldier. “Any links 4 da execution of da journalist plz. Allahu Akbar. UK must b shaking up haha. I wna b da 1st UK woman 2 kill a UK or US terorrist!” she tweeted. Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter @tdwilliamsrome