FOX News pundit Dana Perino, who is set to meet Facebook representatives alongside Glenn Beck and other conservatives, has said that none of her social media followers are particularly concerned by the social media platform’s ongoing Trending News scandal. [Speaking on The Five Tuesday, Perino said people “are really mad at Facebook for a lot of reasons, but none of them seem to have to do with this news trends, which is the issue. ”   The FOX pundit said that her followers were concerned with “Facebook and China,” the platform’s community standards, and “all sorts of things,” but emphasized that the “news trends issue didn’t seem to be rising to the top. ” The pundit and former White House Press Secretary is meeting Mark Zuckerberg Wednesday, alongside Glenn Beck, S. E Cupp, Jim DeMint, and a number of other conservatives invited to discuss the ongoing Trending News scandal with Facebook. Perino also used her segment to defend the meeting from suggestions that only “ ” conservatives had been invited. Perino said the argument was “fairly tamped down” and pointed out that Barry Bennett from the Trump campaign was set to attend the meeting as well. Despite her followers’ lack of interest, Perino maintained that conservatives are “sensitive to the idea that they are being shut out of this conversation. ” Representatives of Facebook reached out to Breitbart ahead of the meeting. In an article elsewhere on this site, executive chairman Stephhen K. Bannon and    Alex Marlow declined to participate, declaring “we have zero interest in a Facebook  . ”  The sentiment was echoed by Sean Davis,   of The Federalist, who branded Facebook’s meeting a “ . ” The Drudge Report also slammed Glenn Beck for agreeing to “grovel at Zuckerberg’s feet. ” Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos has offered Mark Zuckerberg a fairer alternative to a   meeting. A live debate between himself and the Facebook CEO, hosted on Zuckerberg’s own platform. However, Facebook told ABC News earlier today that they have not responded to the challenge. You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook, and download Milo Alert! for Android to be kept up to date on his latest articles.