An email published in recent days by Wikileaks shows the Democratic National Committee (DNC) in cahoots with controversial Democratic operative Robert Creamer to “get some folks out front” of the Republican National Committee (RNC) to protest Donald Trump at a meeting the presidential candidate held with House Speaker Paul D. Ryan. [The   May 12, 2016 meeting at the RNC’s headquarters in Washington between Trump and Ryan featured scores of supposed   protesters outside being filmed by the news media.  The news media largely featured the protesters as legitimate   activists. The email captured by Wikileaks, however, betrays a different story. The May 10, 2016 correspondence was titled, “Action in front of RNC on Thursday morning for   meeting. ” In the message, Eric Walker, Deputy Communications Director at the DNC, discussed staging protests at the RNC’s headquarters in Washington during the meeting between Trump and Ryan. The email, sent to two other DNC staffers, reveals Walker suggested ideas for   signs to be brandished by the alleged protesters: We should come up with signs to pass out. A few ideas (throw some ideas down here if you have them): * Reject the   Agenda, *Donald Trump: Dangerous, Divisive, Disgraceful (my favorite) *Dump Trump, *Love Trumps Hate (HFA tagline) * Say No to Bigotry   Say No to Trump, * Trump = Make America Hate Again (2nd choice) Walker further relates he “discussed” planning for the purported protest with Creamer. He writes: Discussed with Creamer, et. al. today. We are calling through allied groups to get some folks out front of the RNC before 9 a. m. There will be a separate action in front of the NRSC at 11:30 with the message being “Don’t Let Republicans Trump the Supreme Court”  —   mostly being handled by woodhouse   groups that have been engaged on SCOTUS push. The supposed protest outside the RNC meeting made headlines. The Washington Post published a story on the event that included video of a handful of supposed   protesters outside the RNC confab brandishing   placards. The Hill reported on the purported protestors: “The scene outside Republican National Committee (RNC) headquarters on Thursday was chaotic, with protesters and supporters of Donald Trump showing up in response to the presumptive presidential nominee’s meeting with Speaker Paul Ryan ( . ). ” “Protesters, Media Outside   Meeting,” was the title of a USA Today online video of the event. NPR reported that “Colorful protests surrounded Republican National Committee headquarters in Washington, D. C. Thursday morning as Donald Trump met with House Speaker Paul Ryan and other officials inside. ” Creamer, meanwhile, stepped back from his responsibilities working with the campaign after a video released by James O’Keefe and his organization, Project Veritas Action, reportedly showed the Democratic operative hiring people to protest at Trump events and allegedly to incite violence. Creamer’s associations with Clinton’s presidential campaign came in the form of activism on behalf of his organization, Democracy Partners, a progressive consulting group, and Creamer’s position as leader of Mobilize, which was contracted with the DNC. Following O’Keef’s video, Creamer released a statement that he is “unwilling to become a distraction to the important task of electing Hilary Clinton, and defeating Donald Trump in the upcoming election  …     As a result I have indicated to the Democratic National Committee that I am stepping back from my responsibilities working with the campaign. ” Creamer told CNN that he was referring to work for Clinton’s campaign, and he confirmed to the news agency that he was “fully integrated” with the campaign. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook. With research by Joshua Klein.  