Democrats are claiming that Donald Trump’s comments about “2nd Amendment people” stopping Hillary Clinton’s   agenda was somehow a violent threat. Shills for Hillary like Elizabeth Warren are even calling it a “death threat. ”[. @realDonaldTrump makes death threats because he’s a pathetic coward who can’t handle the fact that he’s losing to a girl.  —   Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) August 9, 2016,   The idea that Trump’s comments should be interpreted as a threat highlight the ignorance that leads these same   to assume gun owners own guns because they are violent. The truth is that gun owners are overwhelmingly peaceful, responsible, and organized and that Donald Trump’s comment is correct, there are many things gun owners can do to stop   Hillary. Here is what Donald Trump said, “If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is. I don’t know. ” Donald Trump is right, there are things that “2nd Amendment people” can do to stop   Hillary and none of them include violence. 1: Unite to defeat   Hillary in November’s electionTrump campaign spokesman Jason Miller issued a statement to the media pointing out that “2nd Amendment people” could stop Hillary Clinton by uniting to defeat Hillary Clinton at the ballot box. It’s called the power of unification  —   2nd Amendment people have amazing spirit and are tremendously unified, which gives them great political power. And this year, they will be voting in record numbers, and it won’t be for Hillary Clinton, it will be for Donald Trump. Well organized gun organizations like Gun Owners of America and the NRA will credibly argue that any gun owner who votes for anybody but Donald Trump in November is casting a vote against their interests as a gun owner. 2: Block   Hillary in the CongressThe Obama administration has said that they are “profoundly frustrated,” that their   agenda has been blocked by Congress. Obama himself has said, “The one area that I feel I’ve been the most frustrated and the most stymied, it is the fact that the United States of America is the one advanced nation on earth in which we do not have sufficient   gun safety laws. ” Even if Hillary Clinton is elected she might find it difficult to pass her   agenda through Congress. 3: Block   Hillary in the courts“2nd Amendment people” have had significant success reversing   laws in the courts during the last decade. The largest being Heller    District of Columbia which ruled Washington DC’s draconian gun ban unconstitutional. While Hillary will certainly try to appoint judges who are open to the reinterpretation of the 2nd Amendment, she has stated that she would use opposition to the Supreme Court ruling on campaign finance laws known simply as “Citizens United” as a litmus test. Which litmus tests will she prioritize? The Senate must also approve Supreme Court nominees and could block   nominees. 4: Peacefully disobey   HillaryOn    more than a hundred thousand “2nd Amendment people” rallied in more than 100 locations across the country as part of the “Day of Resistance. ” The message to the political and media elite was that peaceful gun owners would use every peaceful means necessary to resist laws and “interpretations” that infringe on constitutional rights. Just because Hillary Clinton decrees a limit on magazine capacity or which “scary looking guns” are banned doesn’t mean that otherwise   gun owners will comply. If Hillary and or her SCOTUS try to reinterpret the 2nd Amendment millions understand they have responsibility not to comply. @GunOwners,  —   Dustin Stockton (@DustinStockton) August 9, 2016,  5: Nullify   Hillary in the statesAs a last resort, “2nd Amendment people” can pass laws at the state level nullifying federal laws that infringe on constitutional rights including the 2nd Amendment. At a minimum, this would legally tie the issue up for years giving “2nd Amendment people” more opportunities to block the   at the ballot box. Gun owners are determined to preserve the 2nd Amendment for future generations because they understand that it is the last defense against government tyranny. Donald Trump understands their determination and knows that they are prepared to peacefully fight   globalists like Hillary Clinton even if she wins the election in November. Dustin Stockton is a political reporter for Breitbart News, a community liaison for Gun Owners of America, and a political strategist. Follow him on Twitter @DustinStockton or  Facebook.