It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of one of our own here at Breitbart News. Mike Flynn has passed away. [Mike was well known and liked by a great many people, both in Washington, DC and across the conservative movement and we have little doubt additional tributes will be pouring in in the days ahead.  His wife Holly Flynn   released the following statement: It is with extreme sadness and heartbreak to announce that Mike Flynn, an Editor at Breitbart News, unexpectedly passed away Thursday evening. While Mike had many accomplishments, what he was most proud of, was being an amazing father, husband, son, and friend to all who knew him. The family wishes for privacy at this difficult time. Mike is also survived by a daughter Riley Flynn, through a previous marriage to Maura Flynn. “Mike was a dear friend and was there in the trenches with us from the beginning. He was our original editor of the Big Government website and is and will forever remain an indelible part of Breitbart. Our hearts, thoughts and prayers go out to his family on this terrible night. Mike will be sorely missed,” said Larry Solov, President and CEO of Breitbart News Network. Added Breitbart News    Alex Marlow, “Mike Flynn was an integral part of the Breitbart News team from the very beginning. Andrew   him to launch BigGovernment. com and guide our coverage of the ACORN sting videos that put Breitbart. com on the map. He continued to provide institutional political knowledge that was indispensable for our development as a news network. He was also a great patriot and friend. ” “Mike was a fighter, first and foremost. Whether he was running for Congress, serving as a Cruz delegate, or driving narratives on the pages of Breitbart News, he lived his life to advance the cause of liberty,” said Breitbart Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon. Reached for comment, Mike’s good friend blogger Jim Hoft said: Mike Flynn was a dear friend.  We attended several Tea Party rallies and conventions together in 2009 and 2010.  He was always steady, kind, smart and fun.  He was one of Andrew Breitbart’s original warriors.  In 2013 when I became deathly ill and nearly died from a sepsis infection Mike wrote my assistant and volunteered to post articles until I was well again.  I was so touched when I heard the news.  Mike and the Breitbart family filled in for me for weeks until I was well enough to resume posting.  I will never forget his kindness. When I spoke with him this week we agreed to meet up in Cleveland.  I will miss him dearly.  He was  a good man and a good friend.  Rest in peace. Tributes from   friends, and acquaintances are already beginning to flow across Twitter. RIP, Mike Flynn. A great human being. A patient and kind editor. Always willing to work with you and help. @Flynn1776,  —   Brandon Darby (@brandondarby) June 24, 2016, My friend Mike Flynn died today and I’m heartbroken #RIP,  —   Kerry Picket (@KerryPicket) June 24, 2016, RIP. It was Mike Flynn who introduced me to Andrew B.  —   James O’Keefe (@JamesOKeefeIII) June 24, 2016, Very sorry to hear of the death of my friend and comrade from the original Breitbart days, Mike Flynn. RIP, brother: https:  .   —   David Kahane (@dkahanerules) June 24, 2016,  At the Pearly Gates, you can bet the Founding Fathers were there to give @Flynn1776 a standing ovation.  —   John Nolte (@NolteNC) June 24, 2016,  More information and tributes will be posted as it and they become available.