Louis C. K. became the latest celebrity to rib the Republican presidential frontrunner when he wrote a lengthy email to his fans, in which the Horace and Pete star urged conservative voters to not be like “Germany in the ’30s” and vote for the “insane bigot” Donald Trump. [“Please stop it with voting for Trump,” C. K. wrote. “It was funny for a little while. But the guy is Hitler. And by that I mean that we are being Germany in the ’30s. Do you think they saw the   coming? Hitler was just some hilarious and refreshing dude with a weird comb over who would say anything at all. ”  On the revolt currently happening within both major political parties, C. K. said, “I get that all these people sound like bullsh*t soft criminal opportunists. The whole game feels rigged and it’s not going anywhere but down anymore. I feel that way sometimes. ” In his weekly email promoting his show #HoraceandPete, Louis CK joins the #NeverTrump movement through a long P. S. pic. twitter.   —   david morar (@morar) March 5, 2016,  C. K. also addressed that contingent of conservative voters disaffected by years of moderate presidential candidates promoted by Republican party elites. “I really get it,” C. K. said. “And that voting for Trump is a way of saying ‘f*ck it. F*ck them all’. It’s a version of national Suicide. Or it’s like a big hit off of a crack pipe. Somehow we can’t help it. Or we know that if we vote for Trump our phones will be a reliable source of dopamine for the next four years. ” “I mean I can’t wait to read about Trump every day,” he said. “It’s a rush. But you have to know this is not healthy. ” Softening his tone more, C. K. added that Americans “should choose based on what direction the country should go  …     If you are a true conservative. Don’t vote for Trump. He is not one of you. He is one of him. Everything you have heard him say that you liked, if you look hard enough you will see that he one day said the exact opposite. He is playing you. ” Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson