TEL AVIV  —   Syria’s   news agency on Wednesday reported Israeli warplanes carried out two airstrikes near Damascus early Wednesday morning. [The SANA agency quoted a military source saying the “Israeli rockets were launched from Lebanese airspace and fell in the   area in the western countryside of Damascus, indicating that no human causalities were reported. ”  A spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces refused to comment to Breitbart Jerusalem, citing the Israeli military’s longstanding policy of refraining from comment on alleged operations outside Israeli territory. Earlier today, Arab news media reported that Israel carried out airstrikes from Lebanese territory targeting a Syrian army outpost and a Hezbollah arms convoy near a highway connecting Damascus and Beirut. Citing   reports, Ynetnews reported: Officials quoted by the   newspaper Rai   said the explosions were caused by four missiles fired on two different targets. The first target, the officials said, was an arms depot that belongs to the 38th Brigade of the 4th Division in the Syrian army. While damage was caused to the arms depot, no one was reported hurt. The second target was several vehicles that were believed to be part of a Hezbollah arms convoy travelling near the highway connecting the Syrian and Lebanese capitals. The officials stressed that the attack did not target any political or military leader. Haaretz cited another Arabic news report: According to the Kuwaiti news network   the warplanes also struck a number of vehicles traveling on the main highway believed to have been part of a weapons convoy led by Hezbollah. SANA’s Syrian military source claimed the strikes were a “desperate attempt” by Israel to “raise the deteriorating morale of the Takfiri terrorist gangs after the heavy losses they have suffered in many areas, especially in the western countryside of Damascus. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.