The wheels are coming off the Hillary Clinton campaign. The White House is taking shots at her, the F. B. I. has expanded its investigation into her use of a private email server, she lost the endorsement of MoveOn. org, and now a   socialist is up 14 points against the Bungler of Benghazi in New Hampshire.  In this same poll two months ago, Sanders was ahead by just +3 points, 48% to 45%. Sanders is also surging in Iowa. What was a   deficit just two weeks ago, is now within the margin of error.  The latest poll out of Iowa, released today, has Sanders up +5% 49%  —   44%. Last month, in this same poll, she was up +11. Should Sanders win both New Hampshire and Iowa, Hillary is going to live through her worst nightmare for a second time. Has Bernie Sanders sent Donald Trump a thank you note? Sanders has done nothing different since he emasculated himself at the first Democrat debate where he effectively inoculated Hillary from her growing email scandal. The only dynamic that has changed in the Democrat primary since then, is the beating Hillary has taken after she accused Trump of sexism. The Republican frontrunner immediately returned fire by blowing the lid off the DC Media’s 20 year   of around a dozen women who accuse both Bill and Hillary of victimizing them. In the case of Monica Lewinski, Paula Jones, and Gennifer Flowers, no one questions Bill’s predatory   dishonest behavior, and we all were witness to Hillary’s role in attempting to silence and destroy these women. This is why this New Hampshire poll is also very bad news for a DC Media dedicated to electing Hillary Clinton president. Their   plans are crumbling right along with hers. During her testimony before Trey Gowdy’s Benghazi   late last year, after Hillary was caught   lying about Benghazi, the DC Media coordinated a narrative that declared her the winner. Because of their own role in helping Obama   the truth about Benghazi during the 2012 election, the DC Media is desperate to call the Benghazi issue closed. Protecting Hillary is naturally going to be a big part of that. The Great Disruptor Donald Trump has not only battered the GOP Establishment Temple. Using the truth and nothing but against Bill and Hillary, he is effectively (along with New Media) doing his part to shred the   Media effort to usher Hillary into the White House. Not only is this New Hampshire poll another example of how awful a candidate Hillary Clinton is, it is also another piece of evidence on the pile that proves the DC Media is losing its   power to influence the political discussion by shaping the debate and bottlenecking inconvenient truths. In the nineties, the same DC Media that attempted to destroy Clarence Thomas over one unfounded allegation of harassment from one woman, effectively protected Bill and Hillary from a dozen or so allegations ranging from rape to groping to harassment to character assassination. Those days are now over, and at least for now, an ancient socialist is looking like he could become the   of the Democrat Party.   Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC               