Several members of the Yale College Republicans have resigned and set up a new organisation after the group officially endorsed Donald Trump for president. [In a statement on the Yale College Republicans Facebook page, the group said, “While not every member of our organization supported Trump in the primary, as an organization and branch of the GOP we support Republicans up and down the ballot. And yes, that includes supporting Donald Trump for president. We remain dedicated to achieving victory in the White House, here in Connecticut, and in our hometowns. ”  “Come November, voters will make their individual choices. We will work from now until Election Day to support our party and welcome any Yale student into our organization who wishes to do the same,” it continued. “We encourage the members of our organization and all other eligible voters to think carefully about the repercussions of trusting Hillary Clinton with our nation’s secrets and future before making a decision and casting their vote in November,” it stated. However several members of the group left in protest and quickly formed a new organisation known as the Yale New Republicans. In a statement, the newly formed group said that “many among the Yale College Republicans’ ranks did not see this endorsement as the best decision. ” “These members have since regrouped and set out to form the Yale New Republicans, a more active Republican organization on campus that will always put national interests above partisan ones,” they added. The Yale Republicans are just one of a number of student groups to have fallen out over the nomination of Trump, with notably the Harvard Republican Club refusing to endorse Trump over what they claim are views “antithetical to our values not only as Republicans, but as Americans. ” However Trump does have his own pockets of support within the student community, with over 50 chapters listed on the “Students for Trump” website. You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at ben@yiannopoulos. net