Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton told Fox News’ Chris Wallace that she is “really proud” of her family’s charity the Clinton Foundation  —   after spending the past week hiding its existence from viewers of the Democratic National Convention. [The glaring contradiction prompted a video comparison, which you can watch above.  Wallace, in an exclusive   interview, asked Clinton about allegations first made in Clinton Cash, the book and now   novel, that Clinton used the    charity for international “  ” deals while she served as Secretary of State. Author and Breitbart News Senior    Peter Schweizer says that Clinton Foundation donors were on the receiving end of corrupt deals approved by Hillary’s State Department  —   including the sale of U. S. uranium to Russia and a rare, lucrative mining permit in Haiti. Clinton retorted that she is “really proud of the Clinton Foundation,” yet not a single speaker at the DNC last week  —   not even Bill or Chelsea Clinton  —   mentioned the Foundation or its spinoffs such as the Clinton Global Initiative. A dramatic documentary clip on Hillary’s record of service, narrated by acclaimed actor Morgan Freeman, failed to mention the Clinton Foundation or its work around the world. The omission left the clip feeling oddly scant, as only two   appeared on camera with stories to praise Clinton’s record from over 40 years in political life.  This week, news broke that the IRS is investigating the Clinton Foundation. Earlier this month, FBI Director James Comey would not confirm or deny whether the bureau is investigating the Foundation during congressional testimony. Just days later, The Globe and Mail reported that “The Canadian affiliate of the Clinton Foundation is spending an astounding 78 percent of the money it raises on administrative costs. ” Read the transcript of Wallace and Clinton’s exchange: WALLACE:  Let’s talk about the Clinton Foundation and allegations of    the argument, the allegation that foreign companies and foreign countries either donated big money to the foundation, or paid your husband for big money for speeches in order to influence your work as secretary of state.  In the first 12 years after he left the White House, President Clinton made 13 speeches for which he got $500, 000 or more.  Eleven of those 13 were while you were secretary of state, and they were all paid for by foreign interests. Are we to believe that’s just a coincidence? CLINTON:  Well, there’s no truth to any of these allegations. (CROSSTALK) WALLACE:  Well, I mean, it is true that they gave  —   that they did make these speeches.  They are all (ph) by foreign interests, and he was getting much bigger speaking fees. CLINTON:  He got  —   he gave speeches as soon as he left the White House all the way up until the last year, and he spoke all over the world, as well as throughout America, to all kinds of groups. But let’s get to the nut of your question.  I’m really proud of the Clinton Foundation.  I am proud of the work that it does.  Thanks to the Clinton Foundation, 9 million more people in our world have access to   drugs because they negotiated contracts that made them affordable. And there is absolutely no connection between anything that I did as secretary of state and the Clinton Foundation.  So, people can say that, but I’m proud of our philanthropic work, our   philanthropic work, the work of the Clinton Foundation. I’d like to see Donald Trump’s tax returns to find out how much philanthropy he’s ever done.