Pop singer Richard Marx displayed a bit of   heroism this week when he apparently helped to subdue and restrain a violent, unruly passenger on a flight from Vietnam to South Korea. [The 80s hitmaker was reportedly traveling from Hanoi to Seoul on Korean Air Flight 480 with his wife, model and former MTV VJ Daisy Fuentes, when a passenger became belligerent and began attacking fellow passengers and several crew members.  “When he started pushing the female staff and pulling them by the hair, [Marx] was the first to help subdue him,” Fuentes wrote of the ordeal on her Instagram account Tuesday.  On our flight from Hanoi to Seoul a guy sitting in the next row from us got crazy  started attacking the flight attendants  passengers. When he started pushing the female staff and pulling them by the hair @therichardmarx was the first to help subdue him. This went on for FOUR hrs. I feel horrible for the abuse the staff had to endure but no one was prepared for this. They never fully got control of him. They didn’t know how to use the taser  they didn’t know how to secure the rope around him (he got loose from their rope restraints 3 times). I’ll be posting some of the video after our next flight. A photo posted by DAISY (@daisyfuentes) on Dec 20, 2016 at 3:07am PST,  Fuentes said the incident lasted for four hours, and that the Korean Air flight crew were wholly unprepared to handle the unruly attacker: “They never fully got control of him,” she wrote. “They didn’t know how to use the taser  they didn’t know how to secure the rope around him (he got loose from their rope restraints 3 times). ” Fuentes said she recorded video of the incident and would release it in the near future. TMZ reported that the attacker was arrested upon the plane’s landing in Seoul. Two passengers and one crew member were reportedly injured during the incident. Marx posted several photographs to his own Twitter account, and said the flight crew had been “ ” to handle the situation. Korean Air 480 pic. twitter.   —   Richard Marx (@richardmarx) December 20, 2016,  Korean Air 480 pic. twitter.   —   Richard Marx (@richardmarx) December 20, 2016,  Korean Air 480 pic. twitter.   —   Richard Marx (@richardmarx) December 20, 2016,  Marx is perhaps best known for a string of hit songs in the 1980s, including “Right Here Waiting,” “Now and Forever” and “Endless Summer Nights. ” The   singer was reportedly in Hanoi over the weekend to perform at a Christmas charity concert.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum