Vice   Mike Pence walked out of the   musical Hamilton on Broadway Friday night after nonstop booing from the audience prompted an   lecture from one of the performers on stage. [Pence was booed from the moment he arrived at the Richard Rodgers Theater. One Twitter user, who attended that show, noted that Pence was greeted with “a massive mix of cheers and boos”:  Here’s Pence getting booed as he gets to his seats at Hamilton pic. twitter.   —   David K (@dkipke12) November 19, 2016,  Just before the end of the performance, Pence, surrounded by Secret Service, exited the theater. The Vice   was then asked by actor Brandon Victor Dixon to listen to his lecture about how a “diverse America” is “alarmed and anxious” about the incoming Trump administration. “We, sir  —   we  —   are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new administration will not protect us, our planet, our children, our parents, or defend us and uphold our inalienable rights,” Dixon said as Pence exited the building. “We truly hope that this show has inspired you to uphold our American values and to work on behalf of all of us,” Dixon added as the crowd exploded in applause and cheers: Tonight,   Mike Pence attended #HamiltonBway. After the show, @BrandonVDixon delivered the following statement on behalf of the show. pic. twitter.   —   Hamilton (@HamiltonMusical) November 19, 2016,  Dixon’s remarks to Pence were written by Hamilton creator,   Miranda the show’s director, Thomas Kail and the lead producer, Jeffrey Seller, the New York Times reports. “We had to ask ourselves, how do we cope with this?” Mr. Seller said, according to the Times, adding: Our cast could barely go on stage the day after the election. The election was painful and crushing to all of us here. We all struggled with what was the appropriate and respectful and proper response. We are honored that Mr. Pence attended the show, and we had to use this opportunity to express our feelings. Last month, Miranda and Hamilton   Renee Elise Goldsberry headlined a   fundraiser for Hillary Clinton. The event, aptly named “Broadway for Hillary,” was hosted by legendary   Billy Crystal. Those attending the $45 to $10, 000 event at the St. James Theatre were treated to performances by actress Julia Roberts, actor Hugh Jackman, and Emmy and Golden   actress Sarah Jessica Parker  —   all performing duets. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson.