Hillary told another whopper today, one of her typical I am a heroic woman who has stood up to bullies my whole life lies. [Speaking to a blog called “Humans of New York” on Thursday, Hillary shared a “rare personal message”  —   as Politico put it. She claimed that when she took the LSAT during her senior year of college, men taking the test shouted at her, saying her admission to law school could cost them their draft deferments, forcing them to go to Vietnam, where they would die.  The moral of the story was that she had to “learn as a young woman to control my emotions. ”  Brave Hillary!  Here’s what Hillary said: “I was taking a law school admissions test in a big classroom at Harvard. My friend and I were some of the only women in the room. I was feeling nervous. I was a senior in college. I wasn’t sure how well I’d do. And while we’re waiting for the exam to start, a group of men began to yell things like: ‘You don’t need to be here.’ And ‘There’s plenty else you can do.’ It turned into a real ‘pile on.’ One of them even said: ‘If you take my spot, I’ll get drafted, and I’ll go to Vietnam, and I’ll die.’ And they weren’t kidding around. It was intense. “It got very personal. But I couldn’t respond. I couldn’t afford to get distracted because I didn’t want to mess up the test. So I just kept looking down, hoping that the proctor would walk in the room. I know that I can be perceived as aloof or cold or unemotional. But I had to learn as a young woman to control my emotions. And that’s a hard path to walk. “ The problem with this corny story that only stupid    girls would believe is:  Hillary graduated from Wellesley in 1969.  Remember?  That’s when she gave that speech insulting the first black senator since Reconstruction. So her senior year began in autumn, 1968. She says she was a senior during this harrowing experience, which is when the LSAT is normally taken. But the LBJ administration ended all graduate school deferments on February 16, 1968, except for medical, dental and divinity students, when Hillary was still a junior in college. Perhaps it was that bump on her head that has her confused on dates. Or the trauma of that gunfire she ducked landing in Sarajevo.