Swedish police have received 35 complaints from young women after “foreign young men” went on an apparent two day rampage at a popular music festival, sexually assaulting young girls they found there. [The actual number of girls attacked during the weekend festival are thought to be much higher, as within many of the 35 reports received by police, there are thought to be multiple complainants. Police started to receive reports from young women during the Kalstad ‘Putte i Parken’ (Party in the Park) on Friday and Saturday night, reports Svenska Dagbladet, with 24 received during the festival and another 11 coming afterward.  The complaints are understood to focus on children being kissed, and “groped on the chest and buttocks” according to a police source. Early reports in Sweden’s mainstream press, including the   AftonBladet newspaper simply identified the assailants as “unknown males” however as victims and witnesses have come forward a clear picture of systematic abuse by migrants males has emerged. Speaking to the Expressen newspaper with her mother, one    girl who went to the party with her friends said: “I stood and danced when a guy came up from behind and held me down. he started humping against my body, it was horrible”. The paper described how she had visited with six young friends  —   five of whom were also molested by what it calls “foreign youths”. The young woman said: “A guy ran his hand between the legs of one of my friends, and when she went to a bouncer, she was asked if she was drunk. I don’t know what the bouncers are doing there if they can’t help when people do this”. The victim said when she reported her own abuse to security, he shrugged off the incident, saying it was just a thing “that happens in the audience” at festivals. The mother of the    girl told the paper several other events of “sexual harassment” could have been avoided if the bouncers present at the even had done their jobs properly. Sweden’s FriaTider, one of the first news outlets to reveal the foreign origin of the attackers reports the youngest victim is just    with the others aged between 14 and   . The promoter of Putte i Parken said after the event he found the behaviour of his staff unacceptable and said they should lose their security licences. Two teenagers have been arrested and released in relation to the attacks. These latest sex attacks against young European women by migrant males comes just days after Swedish police, mindful of the migrant sex attacks at the Stockholm music festival over the past two summers, launched a new “Don’t Touch Me”   for young girls. Breitbart London reported earlier this week that “unaccompanied youth migrants from the Middle East” were responsible for attacks at the Stockholm, Arvika, Emmaboda, and Bråvalla music festivals over the past ten years. Stockholm authorities and festival organisers were accused of knowing about the attacks but decided not to speak up about them, because it would have been “irresponsible” to highlight migrant sex crime. Migrant sex attacks at music festivals are not limited to Sweden. Breitbart London reported in June on a similar attack at the Schlossgrabenfest music festival in Darmstadt, Germany, which was likened to the Cologne attacks in which over 1, 000 men and women were assaulted and robbed. At Schlossgrabenfest, 26 young women reported being sexually assaulted by “Pakistani asylum seekers” who acted in packs of ten, isolating individual woman from their friends before “touching” them.