Past and present Star Trek producers, actors, directors and crew members have signed an open letter denouncing Donald Trump as the presidential candidate who “stands in complete opposition to the ideals of the Star Trek universe. ”[“His election would take this country backward, perhaps disastrously,” reads the missive, posted Thursday on the Trek Against Trump Facebook page. “We need to elect a president who will move this country forward into the kind of future we all dream of: where personal differences are understood and accepted, where science overrules superstition, where people work together instead of against each other. ”  Endorsements of the   letter include some of Star Trek’s most influential stars, from the past and present. Notable personalities like original series star George Takei, who played Hikaru Sulu, signed the letter. Endorsers also include the family members of   Star Trek icons, including series creator Gene Roddenberry and the original Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy. Star Trek Into Darkness director J. J. Abrams, an outspoken Clinton supporter, and   Star Trek actors Chris Pine, Zoe Saldana, Simon Pegg, and Zachary Quinto also signed the letter. Abrams has reportedly donated $1 million to Clinton’s 2016 campaign. While rebuking those who support third party presidential candidates, the letter insists that people not remain “aloof,” and urges people to get to polling stations on Election Day. “Either Secretary Clinton or Mr. Trump will occupy the White House. One is an amateur with a contemptuous ignorance of national laws and international realities, while the other has devoted her life to public service, and has deep and valuable experience with the proven ability to work with Congress to pass desperately needed legislation,” the letter reads. “If, as some say, the government is broken, a protest vote will not fix it. ” “Vote for a future of enlightenment and inclusion, a future that will someday lead us to the stars,” the letter concludes. William Shatner is notably missing from the   list of signatures.   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson