Baton   rapper Kevin Gates has posted a video calling out what he terms the “bullsh*t” of the Black Lives Matter movement in the wake of recent   police shootings of black men. [“We kill each other, but as soon as a white boy kills one of us, everybody go to hoopin’ and hollerin’ and all that old   sh*t,” the    rapper said.  “That’s bullsh*t,” Gates added, blasting the   movement for its lack of similar outrage about    crime. “When you stand for something, you’ve got the stand for it all the way, not half way,” he said, before describing the lengths some black people go to kill each other: “We kill each other. I’m talking about we lay up under each other’s cars, lay behind each other’s houses then whip by  —   BOOM BOOM  —   kill everybody in the car. ” Gates also criticized Black Lives Matter for its hypocrisy this past February. During an interview on Shay Diddy TV, Gates said he agreed with actress Stacy Dash’s contention that there shouldn’t be a Black Entertainment Television (BET) and that we are all Americans at the end of the day. “If she said that, then I feel like I agree with that,” Gates said of comments Dash made last January about the “Oscars so White” controversy. “They got these people out here talking about ‘Black Lives Matter!’ Man, all lives matter. ” Gates, himself a   convicted felon, also holds himself accountable for his own violent altercations with law enforcement. “I got my ass whooped by the police,” Gates said. “But you know why?” he asked Diddy. “I was belligerent and I was conducting myself like a ‘n***er.’ And when I say ‘n***er’ I mean I was conducting myself in an ignorant manner. ” “I had no respect for myself,” he continued “I had no respect for authority that was talking to me. So I deserved what I got. I’m a felon. I get pulled over all the time. ” Gates said he has learned that if he treats police officers with “respect,” then he too is treated with respect. “When I speak to these individuals with respect, I’ve never had a problem since I’ve changed my ways,” he said. “So I don’t feel like ‘Black Lives Matter,’ I’m talking about ‘All Lives Matter. ’”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson