The triple bill of dances by Martha Graham, Merce Cunningham and Paul Taylor on Sunday at Lincoln Center  —   presented by Paul Taylor American Modern Dance and the American Dance Festival, with the Lyon Opera Ballet as guests in Cunningham’s “Summerspace”  —   was bound to be historic. No single program has ever brought together work by all three before, though their histories were interconnected. But would it be good? Graham’s “Diversion of Angels” (1948) a plotless study of women and love, has often turned into a polished exercise in technique as danced by her own company (this was already true during her lifetime) not lacking in meaning but with its possible meanings too emphatically signaled. When it joined the Taylor repertory last year, there were signs of technical discomfort. And Cunningham’s “Summerspace” (1958) has often been the most elusive of his masterpieces: A 1999 performance by New York City Ballet was dim, and several by Cunningham’s own troupe earlier this century were strenuous. Would these two be mere preambles to Mr. Taylor’s own “Promethean Fire” (2002) invariably an audience knockout? No  —   the whole program shone. The Taylor company’s performance of Graham’s “Diversion” sang the choreography’s lyrical current and interconnection with its music  —   it’s accompanied by a   orchestral score by Norman Dello Joio  —   have never seemed clearer. Laura Halzack (in white) Parisa Khobdeh (red) and Eran Bugge (yellow) ideally differentiated, beautifully illustrated the contrasting dynamics of each of the three lead women: Ms. Halzack’s role is the most beautifully statuesque and authoritative Ms. Khobdeh’s the most percussively charged Ms. Bugge’s the most impetuous. “Summerspace” was the evening’s miracle. Robert Rauschenberg’s backdrop  —   an abstraction of Monet’s Impressionist landscapes and Seurat’s pointillism, with contributions made by both Jasper Johns and Mr. Taylor himself  —   brought an immediate burst of applause. The staging was by Banu Ogan, a luminary of Cunningham’s company from 1993 to 2000. Even by the high standards of the best recent stagings of Cunningham’s work, the dance level of this Lyon production was inspiring. The performers relished both the speed and the languor of the choreography, feasting on its dynamic contrasts like actors released by the stimulus of great verse. “Summerspace” is a work that redefines the   of stage space. Dancers pass from wing to wing in various arcs, often putting an unusual emphasis on peripheral space and charging the air with different trajectories. Bodies pivot keenly: A dancer switches his torso sideways or backward while jumping. And the turn of a head often transforms the nonnarrative drama: The alert awareness of other individuals is like that of animals and birds (so, too, paradoxically, is the seeming indifference). Outstretched arms and legs evoke wings   jumps suggest gazelles sudden arrivals on the floor with one leg and arm outstretched suggest butterflies or dragonflies. The score, “Ixion” by Morton Feldman, was played live by Margaret Kampmeier and Blair McMillen. When Feldman was asked how he, Cunningham and Rauschenberg could be composing their contributions to the same theatrical work in separate states of the Union, he replied: “It’s like this. Say you’re getting married, and I tell you the dress won’t be made until the morning of the wedding. But I also tell you it’s by Dior. ” I’ve never previously felt how right Feldman’s quiet score was for the choreography, how it helps to create the tranquil but bright atmosphere of this masterpiece. This Lyon staging is an exceptional achievement. Certainly, “Promethean Fire” brought the evening’s greatest ovation, with Ms. Khobdeh and Michael Trusnovec in the heroic  —   even tragic  —   central duet, with its high lifts and one audacious catch. Mr. Taylor’s choreography, masterly in the changing group geometries of its outer movements, takes its dramatic, formal intensity from Bach’s Toccata and Fugue in D minor and Prelude in E flat minor, as orchestrated by Leopold Stokowski. It’s fascinating to see this dance after choreography by Graham and Cunningham: Its far more symmetrical use of space and close response to music show how much more radical Graham and Cunningham were, and why there used to be hostilities among devotees of the three choreographers. Now, it’s easier to find room in our hearts to love all three (though I almost miss the civil wars of yesteryear). It’s to be hoped that this   event won’t be the last time these three giants share one program.