The setup of Hillary’s private email server made it susceptible to “being hacked by anybody in the world,” William Binney, a former highly placed National Security Agency official, declared in a radio interview on Sunday. [Binney said it would not have been difficult for outside countries to hack into Clinton’s server. “That’s something quite clearly the Chinese and the Russians would want to do,” he said. “Also the North Koreans,” he added.  He also said Clinton’s emails were exposed to the   workers who were managing her private server. Binney was an architect of the NSA’s surveillance program. He became a famed whistleblower when he resigned on October 31, 2001, after spending more than 30 years with the agency. He was speaking on “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” the popular Sunday night   program broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer, and Philadelphia’s NewsTalk 990 AM. Klein doubles as Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. Binney charged Clinton’s unusual email setup was “a violation in every way you could look at it. ” The   official stated: It was not just a violation of the general principles that govern government documents, which is what as Secretary of State the documents she prepared belonged to the government, not to her. So there has to be a record that was kept on that. That’s a requirement if you work for the government. You have to have documentation of what you are doing. It’s not just the idea that some of that material is classified and shouldn’t have been in an unsecured area and open to being hacked by anybody in the world as well as open to being viewed by people who were managing the server. I mean it was just a violation in every way you could look at it. Binney told Klein he would likely have faced jail time if he had established a private email server that transmitted sensitive government information while working at the NSA,. Binney stated: “Certainly I’d have all kinds of security violations and very likely fired. And maybe indicted on exposing or compromising classified material. It’s something that civil service people would be put in jail (for). ” With his hacking estimations, Binney joins former Defense Secretary Robert Gates, who said last week the “odds are pretty high” that Clinton’s emails may have been hacked by either China, Iran or Russia. In October 2015, the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee revealed it found evidence of attempted intrusions into Clinton’s private server in 2013 and 2014. The same month, the AP reported it obtained documents showing a hacker from Serbia was able to scan Clinton’s email server in 2012. The AP reported: Using a computer in Serbia, the hacker scanned Clinton’s basement server in Chappaqua at least twice, in August and December 2012. It was unclear whether the hacker was aware the server belonged to Clinton, although it identified itself as providing email services for clintonemail. com. The results are widely available online. The AP further reported on vulnerabilities in Clinton’s initial email set up in 2012: Clinton’s server, which handled her personal and State Department correspondence, appeared to allow users to connect openly over the Internet to control it remotely, according to detailed records compiled in 2012. Experts said the Microsoft remote desktop service wasn’t intended for such use without additional protective measures, and was the subject of U. S. government and industry warnings at the time over attacks from even   intruders. Records show that Clinton additionally operated two more devices on her home network in Chappaqua, New York, that also were directly accessible from the Internet. One contained similar   software that also has suffered from security vulnerabilities, known as Virtual Network Computing, and the other appeared to be configured to run websites.  