Democrats and   Republicans have been using false Hitler analogies to frighten Jewish voters away from Donald Trump, after several successive presidential elections in which more Jews have been voting for the GOP. [However, aside from attacking Trump’s comment in February that he would be “neutral” in negotiations (though not in general) between Israelis and Palestinians, Democrats struggle to name a single thing Hillary Clinton has done for Israel in decades of political life.  It is easy to find several   things Clinton has done. These include: supporting the Iran deal, which places Israel in grave danger as Iran slowly expands its nuclear program and continues supporting terrorists tattacking on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for approving apartments in a Jewish neighborhood of Jerusalem comparing Israel to Iran and the Jim Crow South and kissing Yasser Arafat’s wife, Suha (above) after she falsely accused Israel of using poison gas against Palestinians. While at the State Department, Clinton also surrounded herself with   advisers and distributed   articles. And he running mate, Sen. Tim Kaine ( ) not only backed the Iran deal, but actually boycotted Netanyahu’s speech to Congress last year. But naming anything Clinton has done for Israel  —   whether as First Lady, U. S. Senator from New York, or Secretary of State  —   is much more difficult. A Hillary Clinton rapid response website called “Correct the Record” attempts to compile a list, but two of its examples are demonstrably false, and the rest are all things Clinton said, but that were contradicted by her actions. For example, the website claims Clinton led the way on imposing sanctions on Iran, but in fact her State Department opposed new sanctions again and again. It also claims she negotiated a   between Israel and the Palestinians over Gaza. She was involved in talks, but Hamas started violence again soon afterward, and Clinton removed that claim from her biography. Trump, who has supported   causes, has a thin policy record on Israel  —   but he has never held public office before. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.