Video footage continues to emerge of the mass sexual assault committed by migrants on women at the New Year’s Eve celebrations in the German city of Cologne. [Breitbart London broke the story of the attacks in the   media after the German press finally started reporting the incident three days after it had actually happened.  The media silence has stunned the German people, who are wondering why no one dared report such as massive attack by so many men on so many women at such a crowded event. The latest video shows men hurling fireworks into the crowd outside the city’s cathedral, causing panic among confused revellers who do not know where to turn. YouTube user Das Schlüsselkind, who uploaded one video, comments underneath: “What needs to happen before the complete resignation of the Merkel government? What were those in politics and the media waiting for? For a civil war or for a new Stauffenberg [the German officer who tried to kill Hitler] to finally take the problem in hand?” The user adds that women were surrounded by groups of men and “touched inappropriately”. Up to 1, 000 men were involved. Breitbart London reported on Monday how women feared for their safety as large numbers of migrant men gathered around them: One victim, 28 year old ‘Katja L’ spoke of her ordeal as she tried to make her way to the waiting room of Cologne railway station with two other girls and a boyfriend in the early hours of new year’s day. She told Der Express  —   one of the largest regional newspapers: “When we came out of the station, we were very surprised by the group that met us there”. She said the group was “exclusively young foreign men”. Keeping close to her friends, they pressed on: “We then walked through this group of men. There was an alley through [the men] which we walked through. Suddenly I felt a hand on my buttocks, then on my breasts, in the end, I was groped everywhere. It was a nightmare. Although we shouted and beat them, the guys did not stop. I was desperate and think I was touched around 100 times in the 200 meters. “Fortunately I wore a jacket and trousers. a skirt would probably have been torn away from me”.  