WASHINGTON  —   The Obama administration has blacklisted five Russians, including the government’s chief public investigator, who is a close aide to President Vladimir V. Putin, for human rights abuses, laying down a marker for   Donald J. Trump less than two weeks before he takes office with a vow to thaw relations with Russia. The sanctions, announced Monday by the Treasury Department, are not related to allegations of Russian hacking during the presidential election, according to a senior administration official. But they carry symbolic weight at a charged moment, as likely the last visible act the United States will take against Russia before power is transferred in Washington. The biggest name added to the list is that of Aleksandr I. Bastrykin, who reports directly to Mr. Putin and has carried out political investigations on his behalf. Mr. Bastrykin, officials said, was complicit in the case of Sergei L. Magnitsky, a lawyer who died in detention in murky circumstances in November 2009 and for whom the Magnitsky Act was named. Under that 2012 law, passed by Congress with Democratic and Republican support, the Treasury and Justice Departments must investigate and penalize Russian individuals involved in that case and subsequent   or in other human rights abuses. The Obama administration has now put 44 people on the list. The sanctions announced Monday include a ban on travel to the United States and a freezing of any assets held by or transactions with American financial institutions. The White House has enforced the law with varying degrees of enthusiasm, depending on relations between the United States and Russia. In late 2013, human rights activists said, it delayed releasing the list because it worried that the move  —   coming just before the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia  —   would further curdle relations. But the administration’s final list, particularly with the inclusion of Mr. Bastrykin, is considered robust. “The mood and atmosphere are very different this year,” said David J. Kramer, the senior director for human rights and democracy at the McCain Institute for International Leadership, a policy research center. “Adding a few more names to the sanctions list sends a couple of signals,” Mr. Kramer said. “That this administration, as it goes out the door, is still going to implement the Magnitsky Act. It’s also sending a signal to the next administration that it hopes it will continue this policy. ” Shortly after the law was passed, Russia’s Parliament banned the adoption of Russian children by Americans. In 2013, Russia released a list of Americans barred from traveling to Russia because of what it claimed were human rights violations. Late last year, Congress passed legislation that would impose sanctions on people anywhere in the world for the kinds of human rights abuses that surfaced in the Magnitsky case. Much to the frustration of the Russian government, the bill again bore his name. In December, the Treasury Department put sanctions on 15 Russian individuals and companies for their dealings in Crimea and Ukraine. Mr. Trump is widely expected to ease that campaign. On Monday, Kellyanne Conway, one of his top advisers, said Mr. Trump might also relax the sanctions imposed by Mr. Obama in response to the hacking, which include travel bans and financial restrictions on senior Russian intelligence officials. “I predict that President Trump will want to make sure that our actions are proportionate to what occurred, based on what we know,” she said in an interview with USA Today. It will be harder for him to ignore the requirements of the Magnitsky Act, but the administration has considerable flexibility in how aggressively it pursues people. “The bureaucracy will grind away and produce more names, but senior people have the final say,” said Michael A. McFaul, a former American ambassador to Russia. In addition to Mr. Bastrykin, the administration is targeting Andrei K. Lugovoi and Dmitri V. Kovtun, two Russian intelligence officers who the British authorities said poisoned a fellow Russian spy, Alexander V. Litvinenko, in London in 2006. Also added to the list are Stanislav Gordievsky and Gennady Plaksin, two   officials, who the United States said were involved in the   of Mr. Magnitsky’s death.