Actress Susan Sarandon railed against the Democratic National Committee Thursday, calling the party’s primary system “crazy” and “completely corrupt. ”[“After my experience in the primary, it’s very clear to me the DNC is gone,” Sarandon said during an interview on CNN.  “It’s completely corrupt and every superdelegate is a lobbyist. The way that the system is set up in terms of trying of having superdelegates  —   you could win a state and not get the delegates. It’s crazy. ” The Academy   had long supported Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders during the Democratic presidential primary. Sarandon ultimately endorsed Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein in a letter Wednesday, writing that “fear of Donald Trump is not enough for me to support Clinton, with her record of corruption. ” Explaining her support for Sanders, Sarandon told CNN’s Carol Castello “What [Sanders] did is show people that they counted. He brought them hope. He’s supporting a lot of candidates. It’s very important to go and vote down the ticket. ” Responding to the fact that Sen. Sanders is now campaigning for Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, Sarandon said, “Look, Bernie has said ‘don’t ever listen to me if I tell you how to vote. ’” . @SusanSarandon: The DNC is completely corrupt. https:  .   —   Carol Costello (@CarolCNN) November 3, 2016,  The Thelma and Louise star said Clinton and Republican candidate Donald Trump can’t be trusted because they’re the “lesser of two evils. ” “I think we’ve been voting the lesser of two evils for too long. The good news is everybody’s so frustrated that at least we’re awake,” she said. Sarandon had previously made statements seeming to indicate more of a reluctant affinity for Trump than Clinton. In April, the actress said she preferred Donald Trump’s proposed border wall to Clinton’s bad “moral judgment. ” The following month, Sarandon said that Clinton is “more dangerous” than Trump. At a rally in Iowa in January, Sarandon asked a   crowd of Sanders supporters: “What has Hillary done that we’re bragging about?”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson