ATHENS  —   Greek counterterrorism officers have uncovered eight parcel bombs resembling those sent last week to the German finance minister in Berlin and to the Paris offices of the International Monetary Fund, a police official said on Tuesday. The devices were discovered on Monday during a search of the Hellenic Post’s main sorting office, north of Athens, according to a police spokesman, Theodoros Chronopoulos. “The packages were destined for European countries,” he said, calling them “similar” to the ones sent to the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, and to the I. M. F. ’s offices. According to reports in the Greek news media, which Mr. Chronopoulos did not confirm, the packages intercepted at the Athens sorting office were addressed to European Union officials and to multinational companies. The targets reportedly included the leader of the eurozone group of finance ministers, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who coordinates meetings on Greek bailout talks, and an unidentified official of the European Central Bank, one of Greece’s three main international creditors. European Union finance ministers meeting on Tuesday in Brussels to discuss issues including tax policy were made aware of the parcel bombs, but they did not interrupt their talks. “Certainly, we are following these developments with concern,” Valdis Dombrovskis, a vice president of the European Commission, said. According to the Greek news reports, the senders listed on the packages were two former Greek finance ministers, Gikas Hardouvelis and Yanis Varoufakis, who led bailout negotiations. It was unclear why their names were chosen, but the authorities say they do not believe either man had anything to do with the matter. The parcel bombs sent to Mr. Schäuble and to the I. M. F. ’s offices in Paris bore the names of two Greek opposition lawmakers who are broadly perceived in Greece as backing the bold economic changes being pushed by the country’s creditors. The letter bomb sent to the I. M. F. ’s offices in Paris exploded on Thursday, slightly injuring the worker who opened it. A day earlier, staff members at the German Finance Ministry in Berlin intercepted a parcel bomb sent to Mr. Schäuble. Each device contained small quantities of gunpowder, according to the authorities. A Greek extremist group called Conspiracy of the Cells of Fire claimed responsibility for the parcel addressed to Mr. Schäuble but made no reference to the Paris attack or to any other possible targets. In a statement on an anarchist website, the group said it would issue a “proclamation” with more details, fueling speculation about further attacks and a resurgence of domestic terrorism in Greece, where bailout talks have dragged on and political and economic instability are rising. Mr. Chronopoulos said the new parcel bombs “appear” to be the work of the same group. “We don’t know yet but it seems so,” he said. The Conspiracy of the Cells of Fire claimed responsibility for parcel bombs sent in 2010. One was addressed to Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and intercepted at her office. Another was sent to Silvio Berlusconi, Italy’s prime minister at the time, and was intercepted at the Bologna airport. (It exploded, but caused no injuries.) A third, meant for France’s president at the time, Nicolas Sarkozy, was stopped in Athens, along with a package addressed to Eurojust, the European Union’s judicial cooperation agency, in the Netherlands. Several more were sent to embassies in Athens. One, addressed to the Mexican Embassy, exploded in the hands of a courier, causing minor injuries.