Truly, there is no reserve of cynicism vast enough for decent,   Americans to fully comprehend the diabolical motivations of President Obama and the henchmen he has running his administration. [It defies even the most dishonest and criminal imagination. It really is enough to make good people seriously question where the president’s loyalties actually lie.  Of course, it is all part of Mr. Obama’s plan to exacerbate those very questions about where he was born and whether he is a closet Muslim  —   because that automatically turns even decent people into frothing lunatics for dabbling in such conspiracies and innuendo. His is the lowest, most crass and degrading cynicism and it permeates every action and every statement made by this White House. The first Clinton administration is already recorded in the history books for its debased, raunchy and utterly disgusting   and false promotion. The Obama White House is that  —   only on Viagra. Hillary Clinton is carefully studying and learning from the greatest master of dark arts deception. If the Clintons make it back into the White House, they will turn it into a political Caligula the likes of which no one has ever imagined. The latest instance of Mr. Obama’s suffocating cynicism was to boastfully doctor the transcripts of the 911 calls terrorist Omar Mateen made the night he slaughtered 49 partiers at a night club in Orlando. The Department of “Justice” scrubbed the name “Allah” from Mateen’s prayers and professions of allegiance to said “Allah,” along with the Islamic State and al Qaeda and all the rest of the savages out to kill gays, lesbians, Jews, Christians and basically anyone who is part of civilized society. In a rare   media campaign this week, Attorney General Loretta Lynch said references to “Allah” would be removed so as not to “further this man’s propaganda. ” By which she means, apparently, make this attack look like the work of a radical Islamic terrorist as opposed to, say, some   lunatic who hates gay people. By making this atrocity some kind of localized crime instead of a horrific breach of national security, Mr. Obama is trying to sidestep responsibility. Also, by framing it in these terms, Mr. Obama can get back on his old, worn out saw about blaming guns. But, mostly, it is yet another bizarre example of the president trying to protect and promote the religion of Islam, which  —   by the way  —   is having a bit of a public relations problem on its own these last few years. Throwing gays off rooftops, burning men alive in cages and drowning them will do right much to sully even the best reputations. So, in yet another effort to rehab the name of Islam, Mr. Obama erased references to “Allah” from 911 tapes because he did not want to “further this man’s propaganda. ” Okay, so after a truly lone, loser psycho went on a shooting rampage in a Charleston, South Carolina, church, Mr. Obama’s first instinct was to  —   lustily promote the man’s racist propaganda? “The fact that this took place in a black church obviously also raises questions about a dark part of our history,” Mr. Obama said the following day. “This is not the first time that black churches have been attacked. And we know that hatred across races and faiths pose a particular threat to our democracy and our ideals. ” Amazing the guy would seek to promote this guy’s propaganda against black people, while straining to whitewash the radical Islamic terrorist’s propaganda. It really is enough to make you wonder what the guy is up to and where his loyalties really lie. Charles Hurt can be reached at charleshurt@live. com follow him on Twitter via @charleshurt.