A Christmas market Santa Claus was sacked in Germany after sharing a post from the   Identitarian movement which called for action against the increasing number of child marriages in the country. [The Bavarian town of Mühldorf has fired the man who has dressed up as Father Christmas for over 30 years because of the social media post he shared on his Facebook page. Peter Mück has been a staple of the annual Christkindlmarkt, or Christmas market, in the town for over a generation, handing out sweets to local children, The Telegraph reports.  Mr. Mück was fired because he supported the action of the   migration   Identitarian youth movement who were campaigning against the growing trend of child marriages among migrants in Germany. The post which he shared had the slogan, “Child marriage = child abuse” of which he commented, “the core message of which is correct and justifiable for me. ” Mayor of Mühldorf, and Socialist party member, Marianne Zollner explained the reasoning behind getting rid of Mr. Mück, saying: “I explained to him that this movement, in my view, does not respect the equality and dignity of all people, or our democratic values, and that this attitude was not compatible with the work of portraying Santa Claus. ” Since the sacking, the mayor has claimed to have received threats from Germans online who she says accuse her of protecting paedophiles. Mück claimed for his defence that he had not known about the background of the group who many in the German media have accused of being “undemocratic” and even “ ” despite their repeated claims that their peaceful protests are a part of the democratic process. A prominent figure in the   Identitarian movement is Martin Sellner who leads the Austrian branch of the organisation. He expressed bafflement as to why the Socialist mayor would punish Mr. Mück for spreading a message the vast majority of Germans agree with including the Federal Justice Minister Heiko Maas. Speaking exclusively to Breitbart London he said: “These are methods like in the Stalinist DDR (East Germany). The multiculturalist elite is in panic mode and flailing around wildly in a rage of censorship. They have learned nothing. With every citizen they hurt, we are getting new sympathisers. ” He said that the group wouldn’t sit by idly on the issue saying: “More than 700 people from the city have already signed a petition against the mayor. We will organise a local protest against this undemocratic outrage. ” Child marriages have grown over the course of the migrant crisis in Germany as many women have chosen to marry off their underage daughters in refugee camps to ‘protect them’ from rape by other male migrants. Justice Minister Maas claimed to be producing legislation that would not recognise the marriages in Germany even if they occurred overseas. Even if a protest by the Identitarians meets sympathy from the public, Mr. Mück has said he will not reprise his   role as Santa as now he fears people won’t recognise him as Saint Nicholas, but rather just as the “Nazi Santa. ”