GOP frontrunner Donald Trump returned to the campaign trail after a few days off, continuing his nationalist message of “America first” when talking to his supporters at his afternoon campaign rally in Rochester, New York on Sunday. [“You need somebody fast,” the real estate mogul said after listing various percentages of jobs lost from a number of different industries in New York.  In particular, Trump blamed NAFTA for the loss of manufacturing jobs. “I’ve been talking about this for five years,” Trump said about the currency manipulation in trade deals. He also referenced Sentry Safe, a manufacturing company headquartered in Rochester, and how it just moved operations to Mexico. “I’m the only one that knows how to stop it,” he said of businesses moving out of the country. Trump said he had been asked by a group of people from the Rochester area to run for governor. “They asked me to run for governor. Between you and I, I sort of said, ‘I’m sorry, I’m doing something else. ’” “This is what the something else was,” Trump said, referencing his presidential campaign. “I think I could have a lot bigger effect on upstate New York and Rochester by doing what I’m doing. ” “You would have been fracking” a long time ago, he said about the people of New York. Trump referenced Sen. Bernie Sanders ( ) questioning whether Hillary Clinton was qualified to run for president, adding that she’s made many mistakes. “I look so forward to going after Hillary after these guys  …     it’s going to be easy,” he touted. Trump also talked about what he called a rigged system regarding the delegate count in light of recent reports that rival Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) is stacking the deck with delegates favorable to him. “This is a cooked system, folks,” he said, adding that Sanders is facing a rigged system on the Democrat side as well regarding delegate count heading into the national convention. “I win Louisiana  …     then I find out that I get less delegates than Cruz because of some nonsense going on,” Trump said. “I say this to the RNC and I say it to the Republican Party, you’re gong to have a big problem,” because people don’t like what’s happening. “We’re supposed to be a democracy,” he added. “You vote and the vote means something. ” “I have millions of votes more than Cruz,” Trump charged. “It’s not right, folks. ” “It’s not fair to you people,” he said, adding, “They’re taking your vote away. ”