Voters in six states head to the polls today in the election cycle’s final Super Tuesday. Though Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are the respective nominees of their parties, all eyes will be on California because Sanders can continue to cause havoc on the left if he ekes out a victory in the Golden State.  Montana, New Jersey, New Mexico and South Dakota are also holding primaries. Democrats also have a caucus in North Dakota. Stay tuned to Breitbart News for live updates. All times eastern.    —   2:00: Sanders concludes by saying, “thank you all. The struggle continues. ” [Sanders doesn’t concede even though he essentially conceded the nomination to Clinton when he gave her a complete pass on her email scandal. Amateur hour  .] Sanders takes Montana: BREAKING: Sanders is projected winner in Montana Democratic primary https:  .  #Decision2016 pic. twitter.   —   NBC News (@NBCNews) June 8, 2016,  1:59: Sanders again says “our fight is to transform this country” and to “understand that we are in this together” and to “understand that the struggle continues. ” 1:58: Sanders says he received a kind call from President Obama and he looks forward to working with him to move the country forward. Sanders says he received a gracious call from Clinton and he congratulated her on her victories. Crowd boos. ”Next Tuesday, we continue the fight in the last primary, in Washington, DC!”  —   @SenSanders not conceding a damned thing #CaliforniaPrimary,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) June 8, 2016,  1:57: Sanders says then he will take the fight to Philadelphia. 1:56: Sanders says he will continue the fight next Tuesday to win the primary in Washington, D. C. 1:52: Si Se Puede! chants break out again during Sanders’s speech. [Hillary Clinton is darn lucky Julian Castro or Cory Booker didn’t challenge her given all of the enthusiasm for a   tier candidate like Sanders.] 1:50: Sanders says we will not allow   Republicans to control government, and that is especially true with Donald Trump as the nominee. He says the American people will never support a candidate whose main theme is “bigotry” while insulting women, Mexicans, Muslims, and  . “We will not allow Donald Trump to become president of the United States,” Sanders says. He says their vision is more than about defeating Trump. It’s about “transforming the country. ” [Same platitudes from Sanders. Campaign often seemed inflexible and unimaginative.] 1:43: In Santa Monica, California, Sanders finally addresses his raucous supporters and thanks them for being part of the revolution. He thanks the people of California for their incredible hospitality. He says campaigning throughout California was one of the most “meaningful moments of his life. ” Sanders says our vision re: racial, economic and environmental justice will be the future of America. ”Let me thank all of you for being part of the political revolution.”  —   @SenSanders #SantaMonica #CaliforniaPrimary pic. twitter.   —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) June 8, 2016,  And at 10:42PM PT   1:42AM ET, @BernieSanders takes the stage. pic. twitter.   —   Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) June 8, 2016,  1:25: Sanders should be arriving soon to his rally. Already an hour late. Bernie Sanders’ motorcade is now rolling to Santa Monica.  —   Gabriel Debenedetti (@gdebenedetti) June 8, 2016,  1:20: Sanders supporters chanting “the media is corrupt. ” #BernieSanders supporters turn the tables on the press and chant this: pic. twitter.   —   Marcus Yam (@yamphoto) June 8, 2016,  1:11: Crowd loving the free  : Comrades! The Glorious Redistribution of Free Clothing Has Begun! ¡Viva Bernie!: https:  .  via @YouTube,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) June 8, 2016,  1:10: “Bernie or Bust” folks booing early returns: Bernie crowd shouts ”bullsh*t” and ”turn it off” after CNN shows Clinton is leading #CAPrimary pic. twitter.   —   Colleen Shalby (@CShalby) June 8, 2016,  12:50: Breitbart’s Joel Pollak at Sanders rally in Santa Monica: I think this guy felt the Bern. Often. @SenSanders #CaliforniaPrimary pic. twitter.   —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) June 8, 2016,  Lots of noise, but some long faces  sad smiles, here at @SenSanders #CaliforniaPrimary victory party. Punched above weight, now almost over,  —   Joel Pollak (@joelpollak) June 8, 2016,    12:40: The same thing happens on the GOP side with consultants from the permanent political class. It’s never their fault. Sanders’s supporters hate these people just like Trump’s supporters hate the operatives from the permanent political class on the right. All these people care about is getting gigs for their next campaign (whoever decided to give Clinton a complete pass on her email scandal, which signaled to voters that Sanders may not have been serious about winning the nomination right when his campaign was getting momentum, is the one who deserves the blame): Sanders aides throw their candidate under the bus before he even speaks in CA https:  .   —   Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) June 8, 2016,  12:05: Clinton with a   lead on Sanders with about a third of the votes in. Here’s one thing I think we can say with a lot of confidence: Sanders is not going to win California tonight.  —   Nate Cohn (@Nate_Cohn) June 8, 2016,  12:00: White House releases statement on Dem. primary. President Obama called Sanders and Clinton and will meet with Sanders at the White House on Thursday: Tonight, President Obama called both Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders. The President congratulated both candidates for running inspiring campaigns that have energized Democrats, brought a new generation of Americans into the political process, and shined a spotlight on important policy ideas aimed at making sure our economy and our politics work for everybody, not just those with wealth and power. The President congratulated Secretary Clinton for securing the delegates necessary to clinch the Democratic Nomination for President. Her historic campaign inspired millions and is an extension of her lifelong fight for   families and children. The President thanked Senator Sanders for energizing millions of Americans with his commitment to issues like fighting economic inequality and special interests’ influence on our politics. In addition, at Senator Sanders’ request, the President and Senator Sanders will meet at the White House on Thursday to continue their conversation about the significant issues at stake in this election that matter most to America’s working families. The President looks forward to continuing the conversation with Senator Sanders about how to build on the extraordinary work he has done to engage millions of Democratic voters, and to build on that enthusiasm in the weeks and months ahead. 11:50: Clinton takes South Dakota: JUST IN: Hillary Clinton will win the South Dakota Democratic primary, AP projects. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) June 8, 2016,  11:20: Good news for Clinton as Sanders gets ready to deliver his speech: NBC projects both Clinton and Sanders will get at least 140 pledged delegates from CA. Clinton clinches outright pledged majority.  —   Steve Kornacki (@SteveKornacki) June 8, 2016,  11:00: New Mexico called for Clinton. Polls now closed in the Golden State. BREAKING: Clinton wins Democratic primary in New Mexico. @AP race call at 10:54 p. m. EDT. #Election2016 #APracecall pic. twitter.   —   The Associated Press (@AP) June 8, 2016,  10:42: Clinton says there are still ceilings to break and she says “barriers can come down” and “justice and equality can win. ” She encourages her supporters to organize. She says the “end of the primaries is only the beginning of the work we are called to do. ” She keeps repeating that we are “stronger together. ” Clinton’s nod to her mom: ”I wish she could see her daughter become the Democratic Party’s nominee for President of the United States.”  —   David Chalian (@DavidChalian) June 8, 2016,  10:40: Clinton says her mother told her to never back down from a bully, which she says was “pretty good advice. ” She mentions her mother was born while Congress was passing the 19th Amendment. 10:37: Clinton says this election is about “who we are as a  nation. ” She says it’s about Americans coming together and saying “we are better than this. We won’t let this happen in America. ” [Knowing her weaknesses, Clinton is trying to turn out her base by making the election a referendum on Trump.] 10:35: Clinton says Trump has abused his primary competitors and denigrated the press. She says Trump wants to win by rubbing salt in wounds and reminding Americans how great he is. 10:35: She says Trump is “temperamentally unfit” to be president. She says Trump is trying to “wall off Americans from each other. ” Clinton says “Let’s make America Great Again” is code for wanting to take America backwards. And she blasts Trump for his comments about Judge Curiel and mocking a reporter with a disability. She says that goes against everything we stand for. Clinton says “empowerment is better than resentment, unity is better than division, bridges are better than walls. ” 10:32: Clinton says she knows all too well how it feels to put your heart into a candidate and fall a bit short. Clinton: ”I know, it never feels good to put your heart in a cause or a candidate you believe in  come up short. I know that feeling well.”  —   Abby D. Phillip (@abbydphillip) June 8, 2016,  “Let’s remember all that unites us,” she says, talking about a government that listens to the people and not the power brokers. She says we all want a society that is “tolerant, inclusive, and fair. ” “We all believe that America succeeds when more people share in our prosperity,” 10:29: Clinton says so many Americans feel like they are on their own and nobody has their back. She says she does and as President she will “always have your back. ” She congratulates Sanders for his extraordinary campaign. 10:25: Hillary Clinton takes the stage and says it may be hard to see tonight but “we are all standing under a glass ceiling right now. ” She adds, “but don’t worry, we’re not smashing this one. Thanks to you, we’ve reached a milestone. ” She says it’s the first time in history a woman is the presidential nominee of a political party. She says it belongs to generations of women who sacrificed and made her nomination possible. Clinton makes connection to Seneca Falls. 10:15: After declaring victory after the New Jersey results, Clinton is getting ready to deliver her much anticipated speech. 9:40: Hillary Clinton on her nomination: To every little girl who dreams big: Yes, you can be anything you want —  even president. Tonight is for you.   pic. twitter.   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 8, 2016,  Tonight, we can say with pride that, in America, there is no barrier too great and no ceiling too high to break. pic. twitter.   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 8, 2016,  9:20: Sanders takes North Dakota: #BREAKING: Bernie Sanders wins North Dakota over Hillary Clinton. Clinton won New Jersey. pic. twitter.   —   News 4,   (@news4buffalo) June 8, 2016,  9:20: On immigration policy, Trump says “America First” means protecting the jobs of American workers whether they are first generation or tenth. He says the beauty of “America First” is that it brings all Americans of every background together. Trump says “we’re going to put America back to work” by making our own products again. “We’re going to rebuild our inner cities, which are absolutely a shame and so sad. ” Trump says “we’re going to take care of our   people who have been mistreated for so long. ” Trump vows to put the “American people first again. ” 9:18: He says on trade, “America First” means American workers will be protected from unfair foreign competition. “We are only going to have great trade deals,” he says. “We’re not going to approve the   Partnership, which is a disaster for our country. Almost as bad as NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton. ” Trump says on energy policy, “America First” means “opening up America’s great potential to bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers,” including the wonderful miners who have been “mistreated by this administration. ” On economic policy, Trump says “America First” means having tax and regulatory policies that keeps jobs in the U. S. 9:17: Trump says we can turn all of this around by “putting America First. ” He says “America First” means we will never enter into a foreign conflict unless it makes us safer. He says it is a complete contrast to Clinton’s foreign policy. He says we have made Iran the dominant power in the Middle East. 9:16: Trump says the manufacturing jobs that have disappeared are shameful. He says he has embraced the victims of illegal immigrant crime and says they were victimized because of people who should have never been in the country in the first place. Trump says he has seen our dilapidated airports and bridges and he says it is “hard to imagine what has happened to our country. ” He says America is being “auctioned off to the highest bidder” and “we’re broke” while “our infrastructure is a disaster. ” He says our schools are failing while crime is rising. He says the last thing we need is Hillary Clinton in the White House and the “extension of the Obama disaster. ” 9:15: Trump: The Clintons have turned “politics of personal enrichment into an art form. ” Trump says he will give a speech next week detailing all of the corruption associated with the Clintons. He says Hillary Clinton turned the State Department into her “private hedge fund. ” Trump says “it’s a sad day in America” when foreign governments with deep pockets have more influence than our citizens. He implies that Clinton had a private server to hide the shady business she was doing for the Clinton Foundation while she was Secretary of State. 9:14: Trump says every year politicians promise change but change doesn’t happen because the system is rigged to keep them in power and make their friends rich. Trump says we can’t solve our problems by relying on politicians who created the problems. 9:12: Trump says his main purpose is to bring people together but if there is something worth fighting for, he will never, ever back down and the country will never back down. He says he has fought for his family, businesses, and employees and now he is going to fight for the American people. “I’m going to be your champion,” Trump says. “I’m going to be America’s champion. ” 9:10: Trump says he opens Bernie Sanders’s supporters who have been left out in the cold because of a rigged system with “open arms. ” Trump stresses that he and Sanders agree on trade and he is better suited to handle trade deals than Clinton. Trump says he knows some people say he is “too much of a fighter. ” He says his preference is “always peace. ” 9:09: Trump says he will make his supporters proud of their party and movement. Trump says Clinton has made “tremendous mistakes” and he expects “our lead to grow and continue to grow substantially. ” “To everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, I want to thank you,” Trump says. Trump says to those who voted for someone else in either party, he will work to earn their support. 9:08: Trump says we close one chapter and begin another. He says “we accomplished” what nobody thought possible. Trump says his victory is a testament to everyone who believed that “real change” and not “Obama change” was possible. Trump promises to “never, ever let you down. ” 9:07: Trump approaches podium as “We are the champions” plays: Trump takes the lectern with family to Queen’s ”We are the Champions”  —   Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) June 8, 2016,  9:00: Fox News projects Trump and Clinton will win New Jersey, 8:45: Trump previews evening address: I will be speaking about our great journey to the Republican nomination at 9:00 P. M. The movement toward a country that WINS again continues,  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 8, 2016,  8:05: Clinton to address crowd at 10 p. m. EST. Trump expected to make 9 p. m. EST speech: Supporters and reporters waiting  for Hillary Clinton at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. #1010WINS pic. twitter.   —   Al Jones (@aljoneswins) June 7, 2016,  7:30: Interesting remarks from James Carville as the campaign season gets more interesting: James Carville tells MSNBC  he thinks Trump could very well not be the Republican nominee.  Stunning if that happened.  —   Tom Sherwood (@tomsherwood) June 7, 2016,  7:15: Chuck Todd says it’s not “hyperbole” to say that the nomination is still on the line for Trump and this is a “precarious period” for Trump. 7:04: Media won’t press the Sanders campaign if there is a “rift” between the campaign’s top officials like they have done with Trump re: “campaign infighting. ” When asked if there are tensions btwn him  camp mgr Weaver, Devine said, ”people don’t really understand how close Jeff and I are”  —   Robert Costa (@costareports) June 7, 2016,  6:57: BuzzFeed not even trying to conceal its   bias: Don’t need listicle to c they support @HillaryClinton —  @Buzzfeed chair hosting Democratic fundraiserhttps:  .  @brianstelter,  —   Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) June 7, 2016,  While BuzzFeed’s CEO is terminating an ad deal with the RNC, its chairman is hosting a fundraiser for the DNC: https:  .   —   Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) June 7, 2016,  6:25: Top Clinton IT aide who was running Clintons’s private server reportedly fearing prosecution: Clinton IT Aide Fears Prosecution If He Testifies in FOIA Case (Updated) https:  .   —   LawNewz (@law_newz) June 7, 2016,  6:11: Trump campaign preparing for what they hope will be an uneventful nominating convention in Cleveland: In Cleveland @ Quicken Loans Arena   @GOPconvention   preparing for the big week. #MAGA#Trump2016 #TrumpTrain pic. twitter.   —   Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) June 7, 2016,  6:08: Clinton campaign hyping “history made” video. But all of the networks are all abuzz with opinions on Trump: 6:06: McConnell urging Trump to “apologize” for his comments about the judge. Trump’s ”misconstrued” statement has not satisfied McConnell: at AEI book event, @SenateMajLdr urges him to ”apologize” for judge comment,  —   Teddy Davis (@TeddyDavisCNN) June 7, 2016,  6:03: Establishment Dem. Senators urging Sanders to “stand down. ”  6:00: Hugh Hewitt, whom MSNBC is promoting as one of network’s Republican voices, again talks up “hashtag mutiny. ” The #Mutiny option would require @SpeakerRyan @SenateMajLdr @GOP Governors 2 gather + urge #GOPRulesCommittee 2 make 1st 2 ballots advisory,  —   Hugh Hewitt (@hughhewitt) June 7, 2016,  5:50: Bernie Sanders, in an interview with NBC’s Lester Holt, says he was disappointed that the Associated Press hounded super delegates on the eve of the California primary. He says the AP’s report that Clinton has the delegates to secure the nomination will only depress voter turnout in California. 5:35: Tony Lee: As I said during the primary season, Trump can wing his way to the GOP nomination but he needs seasoned advisers who get politics to help him combat the mainstream   Clinton machine. Trump’s been lucky on numerous levels —  even the media hoopla surrounding his comments about Judge Curiel has inadvertently   what would have been a night where the mainstream press gave    coverage to Hillary Clinton’s “historic” nomination. 5:15: And here’s Jeb Bush joining the GOP establishment chorus to slamm Trump’s “racism. ” 5:10: Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager Robby Mook tells Chuck Todd on “MTP Daily” that “the math is clear” that Clinton will be the nominee. He says they will celebrate the “historic nature” of Clinton’s victory tonight. Trying not to offend any of Sanders’s supporters, Mook says it’s too early to talk about conventions and roll calls. 5:05: On MSNBC, Sanders campaign manager Jeff Weaver says if Sanders wins California, it will “strengthen the argument” for Sanders to take the nomination fight to the convention. He claims that Sanders also has a “strong commitment” to party unity. 4:35: Trump realizes importance of tonight’s speech: Teleprompters  set up for @realDonaldTrump election night remarks. On Fri in CA, he attacked HRC for using them. pic. twitter.   —   Candace Smith (@CandaceSmith_) June 7, 2016,  4:30: Sen. Kirk urging other Republicans to take back their Trump endorsements. ’@HallieJackson just asked Kirk if he thinks other Republicans should follow his lead in   Trump  he said ”I do.”  —   Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) June 7, 2016,  Kirk: ”I think we should send a strong message to Donald that racism and bigotry is not going to be tolerated in the party of Lincoln.”  —   Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) June 7, 2016,  4:25: On CNN, Sanders campaign manager Jeff Weaver repeats that super delegates do not vote until the convention and he insists that the “evidence is mounting” that Sanders is the stronger candidate against Donald Trump. Weaver punts a bit when asked why super delegates should go against the will of the Dem. electorate. [It’s a bit bizarre that Sanders and his campaign seem to want the nomination at the end when they started the campaign acting like they had no intention of winning the nomination, even giving Hillary Clinton a complete pass on her email scandal and taking her scandals off of the table. ] 4:15: Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval jumps in, saying that he can’t defend the “indefensible” and “cannot at this time” say that he can vote for Trump. 4:10: An Iowa State GOP Senator suspended his party membership to protest Trump’s “racist remarks. ” 4:08: Team Sanders is defiant, and they may be more so if they pull out a win in California later tonight. 4:05: Trump says he will not comment on the Trump University case any further and states that his “comments have been misconstrued as a categorical attack against people of Mexican heritage. ” It is unfortunate that my comments have been misconstrued as a categorical attack against people of Mexican heritage. I am friends with and employ thousands of people of Mexican and Hispanic descent. The American justice system relies on fair and impartial judges. All judges should be held to that standard. I do not feel that one’s heritage makes them incapable of being impartial, but, based on the rulings that I have received in the Trump University civil case, I feel justified in questioning whether I am receiving a fair trial. Over the past few weeks, I have watched as the media has reported one inaccuracy after another concerning the ongoing litigation involving Trump University. There are several important facts the public should know and that the media has failed to report. Throughout the litigation my attorneys have continually demonstrated that students who participated in Trump University were provided a substantive, valuable education based upon a curriculum developed by professors from Northwestern University, Columbia Business School, Stanford University and other respected institutions. And, the response from students was overwhelming. Over a five year period, more than 10, 000 paying students filled out surveys giving the courses high marks and expressing their overwhelming satisfaction with Trump University’s programs. For example: Former student Tarla Makaeff, the original plaintiff in the litigation, not only completed multiple surveys rating Trump University’s   seminar “excellent” in every category, but also praised Trump University’s mentorship program in a glowing 5 plus minute video testimonial. When asked “how could Trump University help to meet [her] goals” she simply stated “[c]ontinue to offer great classes. ” Once the plaintiffs’ lawyers realized how disastrous a witness she was, they asked to have her removed from the case. Over my lawyers’ objections, the judge granted the plaintiffs’ motion, but allowed the case to continue. Art Cohen, a lead plaintiffs in the litigation, completed a survey in which he not only rated Trump University’s   seminar “excellent” in virtually every category, but went so far as to indicate that he would “attend another Trump University seminar” and even “recommend Trump University seminars to a friend. ” When asked how Trump University could improve the seminar, Mr. Cohen’s only suggestion was to “[h]ave lunch sandwiches brought in” and make the lunch break 45 minutes. Former student Bob Giullo, who has been critical of Trump University in numerous interviews and negative  from my political opponents, also expressed his satisfaction, rating Trump University’s programs “excellent” in every category. When asked how Trump University could improve its programs, Mr. Giullo simply asked that students be provided “more comfortable chairs. ” Indeed, these are just a few of literally thousands of positive surveys, all of which can be viewed online at www. 98percentapproval. com. For those students who decided that Trump University’s programs were not for them, the company had a generous refund policy, offering a full refund to any student who asked for their money back within 3 days of signing up for a program or by the end of the first day of any   program, whichever came later. Normally, legal issues in a civil case would be heard in a neutral environment. However, given my unique circumstances as nominee of the Republican Party and the core issues of my campaign that focus on illegal immigration, jobs and unfair trade, I have concerns as to my ability to receive a fair trial. I am fighting hard to bring jobs back to the United States. Many companies  —   like Ford, General Motors, Nabisco, Carrier  —   are moving production to Mexico. Drugs and illegal immigrants are also pouring across our border. This is bad for all Americans, regardless of their heritage. Due to what I believe are unfair and mistaken rulings in this case and the Judge’s reported associations with certain professional organizations, questions were raised regarding the Obama appointed Judge’s impartiality. It is a fair question. I hope it is not the case. While this lawsuit should have been dismissed, it is now scheduled for trial in November. I do not intend to comment on this matter any further. With all of the thousands of people who have given the courses such high marks and accolades, we will win this case!   4:00: Just when it seemed like Democrats had all of the chaos on their side, establishment Republicans and the “Never Trump” Smart Set seized on Trump’s attacks on Federal Judge Gonzalo Curiel to 1) grandstand in order to get the affection of the mainstream media and the Beltway elite and 2) again float the possibility of denying Trump the nomination at the GOP convention. House Speaker Paul Ryan ( ) called Trump’s remarks about Judge Curiel the “textbook definition of racism” while Sen. Lindsey Graham ( ) said they were “ ” and added that “if anybody was looking for an   this is probably it. ” Establishment Republican Sen. Mark Kirk ( ) took back his endorsement and Tweeted that Trump does not have the temperament to command the country’s nuclear arsenal. Given my military experience, Donald Trump does not have the temperament to command our military or our nuclear arsenal.  —   Mark Kirk (@MarkKirk) June 7, 2016,  The former chair of the Iowa GOP Tweeted that the GOP needs someone to step up to wrest the nomination away from Trump, a sentiment that is being echoed by the “Never Trump” Smart Set inside the Beltway. The Republican Party needs a patriot to step forward, challenge Trump, work delegates and win the GOP nomination for president in Cleveland,  —   AJ Spiker (@AJSpiker) June 7, 2016, 