Bill Maher   his #WhinyLittleBitch   comedy special on Facebook on Wednesday, during which he unloaded on Donald Trump and his daughter Ivanka, Republican voters and disgraced former New York Congressman Anthony Weiner. [“I mean, what does it take? A racist, a liar, a tax cheat, a   a deadbeat, a Russian agent, and a rapist. You know we’re a nuclear power, right? These are red flags,” the Real Time host joked to an audience at Los Angeles comedy club Largo.  “You know, I hope that when we look back on this, it’s going to be like  …     Trump is like Y2K. Right?” he continued. “We thought it was going to be a disaster, we sh*t our pants, and then it was a bunch of nothing,” Maher said. “But who knows? Even if he loses, his army of whiny little bitches  …     these people are crazy. They think if Hillary is elected, this is the end of civilization, right? They’re so brainwashed that we’re living in this country of disaster where there’s always a cold knife at your heart and a brown d*ck at your lips. ” No one was safe during Maher’s   act. He referred to Trump’s campaign surrogates Dr. Ben Carson, Kellyanne Conway, Rudolph Giulianni, and Mike Pence as “flying monkeys. ” But perhaps Maher’s most cutting commentary was aimed at Weiner, whose alleged sexually explicit online conversation with a    girl spurred the FBI’s renewed investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails. Maher called the disgraced former Congressman “the c*ck that ended the world” and said he would “f*cking kill” him if Hillary Clinton lost the election.  Maher’s   standup routine competed for viewers with Game 7 of the World Series, but managed to garner more than 1. 5 million views on Facebook. Toward the end of his set, Maher offered up lackluster support for Clinton and compared her email scandal to New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady’s “Deflategate” scandal. “Is she completely honest? Well, she’s deflated a few balls in her time,” Maher said of Clinton. “But it’s a minor crime and she’s a great quarterback! She would be a great president, or at least a good one, not a disastrous one. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson