Ahmed “Clock Boy” Mohamed used the 15th anniversary of the   Islamic terror attacks on the United States to blame “Islamophobia” for the uproar caused by his decision to bring his   device to school in 2015. [The youth tweeted, along with the hashtag #afterseptember11, a collage of other tweets complaining about public dislike of Islamic ideas, which Islamic advocates describe as “Islamophobia. ”  #afterseptember11 I got falsely accused, humilated, and fingerprinted at age of 14. pic. twitter.   —   Ahmed Mohamed (@IStandWithAhmed) September 11, 2016,  In 2015, Mohamed was arrested in his Texas school after showing off an electrical device said to look like a homemade bomb. He claimed it was just a clock and President Barack Obama rushed to blame religious targeting for Mohamed’s arrest. Obama tweeted in support of the teen, inviting him to the White House, which created a huge wave of sympathy for the youth among Obama’s supporters. The youth’s complaints have been harnessed by Islamic advocates. For example, a meeting between Obama and Mohamed was featured in Issue 15 of   in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) jihadist recruiting magazine Inspire. Mohamed told Yahoo of his plans for what he talked to the president about, “It was pretty hard living in America and going to school being Muslim. ” The magazine further suggested that the publishers were inspired by the Muslim teen, and then provided   instructions to their readers. Breitbart News previously reported on Mohamed’s   father Mohamed Elhassan Mohamed: Last September, though, Mohamed posted a contentious photo of the World Trade Center’s Twin Towers enveloped in smoke during the 2001 terrorist attacks on his Sudanese National Reform party page that sourced to a Sudanese military group that asserted a truther philosophy. They called   an inside job, depicting these “ ” events a “rumor. ” Weeks later, Mohamed shared another   “truther” Facebook post in Arabic. He suggested the clock incident would lead to spreading Islam in America. The senior Mohamed blamed his son’s name and   for his son’s trouble with the homemade device. The Dallas Morning News reported the 2015 words of the young man’s father, “because his name is Mohamed and because of Sept. 11, I think my son got mistreated. ” The younger Mohamed has accused the U. S. of racism on several occasions. He later moved with his family to the Islamic supremacist nation of Qatar after a tour of several other   countries Saudi Arabia and Sudan. He had received a full ride scholarship to the Qatar Foundation. In June the family returned to the U. S. Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDiana 