“Indiana has become ground zero,” Rafael Cruz, father of Sen. Ted Cruz told Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon on Tuesday. [“The people of Indiana have the opportunity and the privilege and the awesome responsibility to perhaps decide who the next president of the United States will be. And I would encourage the people of Indiana to take that responsibility seriously,” he added.  “If Indiana votes according to their values, there’s only one choice, and that choice is Sen Ted Cruz,” he said.  “The election is going to boil down to one word  —   trust. Who can you trust to do exactly what they say they’re going to do? And Ted Cruz has a record of doing that 100 percent of the time. ” “If Indiana votes for Ted Cruz, Donald Trump will not be able to win the nomination on the first ballot. And if he doesn’t win the nomination on the first ballot, people will flock to Ted Cruz beyond the first ballot and Ted Cruz will become the Republican nominee,” he added. When asked to assess the state of the race today, Cruz quoted a USA Today story that claims “four in 10 Republicans surveyed aren’t sure whether they’d vote for Trump if he’s the nominee. ” “That shows,” said Cruz, “that Donald Trump is totally unelectable and that means that anyone that votes for Donald Trump in the primary, they’re basically voting to have Hillary Clinton as the next president. ” He also went after frontrunner Trump for his seemingly shifting positions on a host of political issues, from Israel to the recent LGBT law in North Carolina. Asked to make the case for his son, the elder Cruz again referred back to the USA Today story: “If many of the GOP voters will not vote for Trump, if Trump gets the nomination and that assures Hillary Clinton will be the next president, she will destroy this country. We need to make sure we can beat Hillary Clinton and all the polls show that Donald Trump would lose to Hillary Clinton. On the other hand, Ted Cruz will win. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6 AM to 9 AM EST. Listen to Rafael Cruz’s full interview on Breitbart News Daily on SiriusXM below: 