Three North African men attempted to stone two male to female transsexuals to death in Dortmund, according to local Police. [(function( d, s, id)  (document, ’script  ’))  The two victims were walking together in the early hours of Monday morning when they were approached by three North African men while walking down the Leopoldstrasse. The men attempted sexual advances, but upon realising the victims were transsexuals began attacking them. Elisa, 37, and Jasmin, 50, reported to police that the men initially hurled insults in Arabic toward them and spoke of their need to stone (to death) “such persons. ” Presseportal has published the police report which says the victims responded with insults which escalated the situation to violence. The trio of men then began to throw rocks at the victims. The victims also reported the suspects grabbed at their hair and breasts during the ordeal. Local police were in the vicinity and were able to witness and stop the violence before it became life threatening. The suspects stopped their attack and attempted to flee when they noticed the police. The suspects were described as being between   years of age and of North African descent. Police gave a statement to German television channel Sat. 1 saying, “we intervened immediately. The three North Africans have been put into custody. ” Police also mentioned that the suspects are known to them and that they have been arrested several times before for theft and aggravated assault. The victims spoke out to Sat. 1, choosing to cover their faces while telling the channel that it was the most horrible night of their lives and that the suspects had shouted at them “you whores should be killed!” before they began their assault. “This is barbaric what they have done, they were barbarians!” Jasmin told Sat. 1 NRW and spoke in disbelief, “I’m sorry I’ve never heard about this,” and continued, “but now I’ve seen it. ” While this may be the first case of transsexuals being the victims of this kind of violence it is not the first case of an attempted stoning in Germany. In October of last year Breitbart reported on a four year old who was hospitalized after having a stone thrown at him by a man at a migrant centre over interrupting a football game. Unlike in this case Police did not divulge any information about the suspect. While the suspects have been caught, Elisa and Jasmin have become traumatised and have stated they dare not go out on the streets and haven’t left their houses since the incident.