The popular automotive blogger attacked by Tesla for his investigative report on a Tesla suspension safety issue tells Breitbart News that there is more to the story that he hasn’t published yet. [Automotive blogger and Bloomberg View writer, Edward Niedermeyer, broke a story on his blog, the Daily Kanban, about a potential suspension safety issue with Tesla vehicles. Within a day, Tesla responded to Niedermeyer by name and in part by trying to attack the messenger.  “I would say I’m more disappointed than surprised by Tesla’s response,” Niedermeyer told Breitbart News. “It’s a pretty typical diversionary PR tactic that’s not going to work because there is a lot more to this story that will be coming out. ” After reading the Tesla statement attacking him, Niedermeyer blasted Tesla on Twitter, First of all, spell my damn name correctly. You know my motives but not how to spell my name? Miss me with that shit.  —   E. W. Niedermeyer (@Tweetermeyer) June 10, 2016,  Second of all, spend more time researching before you write. I didn’t start or end the Tesla Deathwatch https:  .   —   E. W. Niedermeyer (@Tweetermeyer) June 10, 2016,  Third, I don’t play the market long or short or professionally advise anyone who does.  —   E. W. Niedermeyer (@Tweetermeyer) June 10, 2016,  Fourth, if you don’t see the public safety risk involved with Tesla’s ”goodwill repair agreement” you don’t understand the regulatory system,  —   E. W. Niedermeyer (@Tweetermeyer) June 10, 2016,  Fifth, check my pinned tweet. NHTSA doesn’t say stuff like that to good boys who only do good. Sorry my man, but you have a problem  …      —   E. W. Niedermeyer (@Tweetermeyer) June 10, 2016,  “If you say anything even remotely critical about Tesla or Elon, no matter how true, the Tesla groupies dismiss you as being either a shill for   or a Tesla short seller,” Niedermeyer said. “It’s really getting old and it’s not even good for Tesla. ” Niedermeyer also called out Tesla owner Elon Musk: Listen @elonmusk: I have a ton of respect for you. Big SpaceX fan. But you’re proving again  again that the car biz just ain’t for you.  —   E. W. Niedermeyer (@Tweetermeyer) June 10, 2016,  I mean, read this and tell me that I’m just making stuff up for the sake of tearing you down. https:  .   —   E. W. Niedermeyer (@Tweetermeyer) June 10, 2016,  Dustin Stockton is a political reporter for Breitbart News, a community liaison for Gun Owners of America, and a political strategist. Follow him on Twitter@DustinStockton or  Facebook.