  Donald Trump’s spokesman Jason Miller tells a reporter from the Washington Post that most people are getting tired of the narrative that Russian hackers interfered with the United States election, dismissing it as an attempt to delegitimize Trump’s victory. [During a call with reporters on Tuesday morning, Miller was again questioned about Trump dismissing reports of potential Russian hackers interfering with the election.  “On what evidence does the   question the CIA’s assessment that Russia interfered in the election to help him win?” the reporter asked. “Okay, not too shocking that we have yet another   …     inquiry into what seems to be, for many, their favorite topic,” Miller responded, sounding miffed by the question. “I spent a considerable time talking about this on yesterday’s call. ” Miller was also asked about the potential of Russian hackers during Monday’s daily press call with reporters where he described it as “an attempt to try to delegitimize   Trump’s win. ” “I would say that at a certain point, the effort to try to delegitimize   Trump’s win I think, probably most people are getting tired of that [and] probably realize that what   Trump is focused on now is moving the country forward and bringing us together and  …     actually making good deals that work for American citizens and getting the economy going,” Miller responded to the inquiry on Tuesday. He pointed to a Reuters article, which cites unnamed sources, reading, “Top U. S. spy agency has not embraced CIA assessment on Russia hacking. ” Reuters reports: While the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) does not dispute the CIA’s analysis of Russian hacking operations, it has not endorsed their assessment because of a lack of conclusive evidence that Moscow intended to boost Trump over Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton, said the officials, who declined to be named. Several senators have suggested there should be an investigation into the matter after news reports have emerged expressing concerns from the CIA about Russian involvement in the election to promote Trump over Hillary Clinton. “I think at a certain point most people at home get it and they realize that the election is over and that this entire narrative, so to speak, is an attempt to try to delegitimize   Trump’s win and so I appreciate the question, but I think we probably spent enough time on this one,” Miller added.