(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Obamacare lives on. Faced with resistance from within the party, Republican leaders in the House pulled legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker, said Americans will be “living with Obamacare for the foreseeable future. ” It was a humiliating defeat for President Trump, who has prided himself on his   skills and campaigned on repealing the health care law. In an interview after the bill was pulled, Mr. Trump blamed Democrats and predicted they would seek a deal within a year when “Obamacare explodes. ” _____ 2. The Keystone XL pipeline plans will move forward after the State Department granted TransCanada a permit for construction, reversing Obama administration policy. “Today we begin to make things right,” President Trump said. There are still obstacles to overcome before it can be built, and protests by environmentalists are likely to continue. But its proponents, including Republicans, some labor unions and the oil industry, welcomed the news, arguing that the pipeline would guarantee national energy security. _____ 3. Millions of tourists, business travelers and relatives of American residents will undergo new security checks before getting visas into the United States, in the first evidence of “extreme vetting” from the Trump administration and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. The rules generally do not apply to citizens of 38 countries, including much of Europe and longstanding American allies. For those who have ever been in territory controlled by the Islamic State, the extra scrutiny will include mandatory checks of social media history. _____ 4. The police in London made two “significant” arrests in Wednesday’s attack outside Parliament that left five people dead, including the attacker, and wounded at least 50. Nine people were in custody and were being questioned in an investigation into Khalid Masood, above, the assailant whose connections to the Islamic State were unclear. The attack was a reminder of how inaccurate information can spread in the immediate aftermath of breaking news. Online sleuths pegged the wrong suspect, and the inaccurate identification spread rapidly on social media and a live British TV program. _____ 5. Paul Manafort, the   campaign manager for Donald Trump who has been under fire for his ties to Russia, will testify before the House Intelligence Committee as it investigates Russian interference in the presidential election. The chairman of the committee, Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, angered Democrats when he said he would replace a public hearing with former intelligence and law enforcement officers with a   proceeding. Democrats accused him of trying to “choke off” public information under pressure from the White House. _____ 6. China’s smog crisis, long attributed to the chemicals emitted from power plants, steel factories and cars, has been exacerbated by global warming, new research suggests. Changing weather patterns have reduced wind, which helps blow away the smog in several of the country’s most populous cities. The findings could pressure China’s leaders not just to curb its own pollution, but also to take a more forceful role in international climate change efforts. _____ 7. Hosni Mubarak, the former president of Egypt, was quietly freed from a hospital in Cairo where he had been detained, disappointing Egyptians who hoped to punish him further for decades of corruption and human rights abuses. He was sentenced to life in prison in 2012 for the deaths of Tahrir Square protesters, but the verdict was overturned and the political will to pursue him dissipated. Mr. Mubarak, 88, will now enjoy the typical benefits of a former head of state, including a security detail. _____ 8. A jury in Pennsylvania found Graham B. Spanier, the former president of Penn State University, guilty of one count of child endangerment over his handling of sexual abuse accusations against Jerry Sandusky, a former assistant football coach. The jury acquitted him of conspiracy and another count of child endangerment. Mr. Spanier maintained that he was unaware of the seriousness of the accusations. _____ 9. Need a break? There’s plenty to distract you from politics this weekend. For sports fans, the makeup of the Final Four of the N. C. A. A. men’s basketball tournament will be decided with games on Saturday and Sunday. The women’s Final Four will be set after games on Sunday and Monday. New possibilities for moviegoers include “Life,” the   thriller starring Jake Gyllenhaal and “Saban’s Power Rangers,” a modern repackaging of a popular 1990s Fox Kids series. If you just want to stay on your couch, here are the shows our TV critic recommends, or you can read these 17 great stories that have nothing to do with politics. _____ 10. Historians considered James K. Polk, the 11th president of the United States, to be “priggish” and “colorless,” but a debate over his resting place is stirring passions in Tennessee. A new proposal calls for relocating the bodies of Mr. Polk and his wife from the State Capitol grounds to a family home and museum in Columbia. Depending on whom you ask, it’s either a proper remembrance for an overlooked president or a macabre   for a   town. _____ 11. Finally, it’s been a long week. You deserve some panda photos. Bao Bao, a    panda born in the National Zoo in Washington, is adjusting to her new life in China and made her first public appearance after 30 days in quarantine. She’s had much the same culture shock a human would  —   she didn’t like all of the local food at first, and she’s had to learn commands in Chinese instead of English. But her new handlers say she’s adapting well and settling into the land of her ancestors. Thanks for reading, and we hope you settle nicely into your weekend. Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.