Hollywood figures are secretly throwing their support behind Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump, says author Bret Easton Ellis. [The American Psycho author and cultural critic said he was “shocked” that most of his companions at a dinner in West Hollywood Saturday night indicated they would vote for the billionaire businessman in 2016, even though they “would never admit it publicly. ”  Just back from a dinner in West Hollywood: shocked the majority of the table was voting for Trump but they would never admit it publicly.  —   Bret Easton Ellis (@BretEastonEllis) February 21, 2016,  Ellis, who is currently prepping a Broadway adaptation of American Psycho, has not yet indicated who he will be voting for in this year’s presidential race. In August, the writer called the “political theater” surrounding Trump “thrilling,” and said the businessman was “destroying the G. O. P. and terrifying the U. S. press. ” The   political theater of DONALD TRUMP is thrilling: destroying the G. O. P. and terrifying the U. S. press. pic. twitter.   —   Bret Easton Ellis (@BretEastonEllis) August 27, 2015,  A representative for Ellis did not immediately respond to a request for comment. While Democrats Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders have drawn their share of Hollywood endorsements, Trump has a sizable contingent of celebrity firepower backing his campaign. Musicians Kid Rock and Loretta Lynn have both said publicly they’ll be voting for Trump in November, while actors Kirstie Alley, Stephen Baldwin, and Lou Ferrigno have also indicated their support for the candidate. Trump also has several sports figures in his corner, including Mike Tyson, Terrell Owens, and former NFL player and Chicago Bears head coach Mike Ditka. Of course, Hollywood has also mercilessly attacked Trump throughout the primary season, including after his big win in the South Carolina contest Saturday, when celebrities ripped the state’s voters as “racist” and took shots at Trump’s wife, Melania. In a soundproof chamber beneath Trump Tower, Donald is lowered onto a disinterested Melania for a   9 second Victory Rut.  —   Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) February 21, 2016,  Idiocracy was a movie based on a true story that’s happening right now#Trump2016,  —   Sarah Silverman (@SarahKSilverman) February 21, 2016, 