CHENGDU, China  —   Strange food. Unintelligible natives. These are just some of the things that Bao Bao, the    panda from the National Zoo in Washington, has grappled with since moving to China last month. But the culture shock is fading, her handlers say, as she settles into the land of her ancestors. On Friday, after 30 days of quarantine, Bao Bao made her first public appearance at the Dujiangyan base of the China Conservation and Research Center for the Giant Panda in Sichuan Province. Bao Bao’s new life in China has been not easy, according to Tang Cheng, one of her keepers during her quarantine. Over the past month, she has had to learn Mandarin with a Sichuan accent and get used to the local fare  —   including wowotou, or steamed cornbread buns, in place of the biscuits she was used to. By now, Bao Bao can understand some commands in Chinese, including “stand up” and “sit down,” Mr. Tang said. Mr. Tang was selected to work with Bao Bao in part because he speaks English as well as Chinese, an important skill to help haigui, or overseas returned, pandas to adapt to their new homes. At the ceremony on Friday, several United States diplomats and dozens of reporters and other guests were on hand to greet Bao Bao. Although they were clearly excited to see her for the first time, waving their hands and shouting her name to get her attention, Bao Bao seemed unimpressed. She spent most of the time sitting in her outdoor playground, munching on bamboo. From time to time, she would examine the rubber balls and tires hanging near her brick enclosure. According to Mr. Tang, Bao Bao spent her first few days in China overcoming jet lag and by now has settled into a routine: four to six meals a day, of bamboo, carrots, apples and wowotou. At first she did not like the wowotou and tended to throw it away. By now, though, Mr. Tang said, “she is adapting well to her new environment,” and has gained more than four pounds. Bao Bao is not the first   panda to face the challenges of a new life. In November, when Mei Lun and Mei Huan, the first surviving panda twins to have been born in the United States, at Zoo Atlanta, came to China, the Chinese news media reported that they, too, had difficulties with the local language and food. According to the conservation and research center, 25 pandas have been born abroad since the 1990s, when China set up panda breeding programs in collaboration with 17 zoos in 12 countries. Of these, 18 have survived. By agreement, pandas provided by China are considered loans, and their offspring must be sent to China before their fourth birthday in preparation for breeding. Bao Bao was born on Aug. 23, 2013, to Mei Xiang and Tian Tian, two pandas on loan to the National Zoo. Her older brother, Tai Shan, who was born in 2005 and sent to China in 2010, is now her neighbor at the Dujiangyan base. A younger brother, Bei Bei, was born in 2015 and is still in Washington. A 2016 report by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature put the total number of giant pandas around 2, 060. While that is up from the 1, 596 counted in a   census, the health of the population depends on continued conservation efforts. Each panda has a mission to spread the genes, and Bao Bao is no exception. Once she reaches sexual maturity, around 5 or 6 years old, she will acquire a boyfriend. “When Bao Bao gets to that age, we will arrange for her to meet many young males,’’ Mr. Tang said, “and their relationship will be based on love. ”