In her response to the Islamic terror attack in Orlando, Hillary Clinton called on the governments of Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Kuwait to stop allowing their citizens to fund terrorists and to “stop supporting radical schools and mosques. ” However, she failed to mention that the Clinton Foundation has spent years accepting millions in donations from countries that throw homosexuals in prison, fine them, sentence them to hard labor, and even execute them for the “crime” of being gay. [For years, Hillary Clinton’s own global foundation welcomed   donations from countries with some of the worst   records in the world. And it’s worth noting that the Clintons have routinely failed to disclose all the information concerning donations to their foundation.  Below is a list of eight nations that Hillary Clinton’s foundation took contributions from while those counties’ leaders were enforcing harsh punishments on lesbian, gay,   and transsexual people. Algeria donated $250, 000 to $500, 000 to the Clintons, Algeria outlawed homosexuality 50 years ago. Gays and lesbians in the north African nation cannot serve in the military and are offered no discrimination protection. Algerian law on homosexuality states: “Anyone guilty of a homosexual act is punishable with imprisonment of between 2 months and two years, and with a fine of 500 to 2000 Algerian dinars [roughly $6 to $24]. If one of the participants is below 18 years old, the punishment for the older person can be raised to 3 years’ imprisonment and a fine of 10, 000 dinars [roughly $124]. ” The Nation of Brunei donated $1, 000, 000 to $5, 000, 000 to the Clintons, The Nation of Brunei outlawed homosexual sex 100 years ago. Brunei’s penal code currently states: “Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman, or animal, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 10 years, and shall also be liable to fine. ” Jamaica donated $50, 000 to $100, 000 to the Clintons,  Men in Jamaica can be gay, but if they are caught having sex they can face up to 10 years in prison and are forced to conduct hard labor. Kuwait donated $5, 000, 000 to $10, 000, 000 to the Clintons, In the Western Asian country of Kuwait, gays and lesbians can be charged with debauchery and can serve up to seven years in prison. The nation’s law says “consensual intercourse between men of full age (from the age of 21) shall be punishable with a term of imprisonment of up to seven years. ” Sultanate of Oman donated $1, 000, 000 to $5, 000, 000 to the Clintons, In Oman, “Anyone who commits erotic acts with a person of the same sex shall be sentenced to imprisonment from six months to three years,” according to the International Lesbian Gay Bisexual Trans and Intersex Association. Qatar donated $5. 8 million to the Clintons, According to Qatar’s penal code, the penalty for the crime of homosexual sex is up to seven years in prison. Saudi Arabia donated up to $50 million to the Clintons, Islamic Sharia Law in Saudi Arabia enforces penalties for homosexual sex, ranging from public flogging to banishment from the country to death. A 2013 International Lesbian Gay Bisexual Trans and Intersex Association report says: “There is no codifed Penal Law in  . Instead, the country applies strict Islamic Sharia law. According to the interpretation sodomy is criminalized. For a married man the penalty is death by stoning, while the penalty for an unmarried man is 100 blows of the whip as well as banishment for a year. For a   who commits sodomy with a Muslim, the penalty is death by stoning. Moreover are all sexual relations outside of marriage illegal in   according to the Sharia law, including sexual relations between women. ” United Arab Emirates donated up to $11. 5 million to the Clintons, A 2013  International Lesbian Gay Bisexual Trans and Intersex Association report on   homophobia states that “all sexual acts outside of heterosexual marriage are banned in the United Arab Emirates. ” BONUS:   OCP, a phosphate exportation company, donated $1, 000, 000 to $5, 000, 000 to the Clintons,  As of 1962, Moroccan law dictates that “any person who commits lewd or unnatural acts with an individual of the same sex shall be punished with a term of imprisonment of between six months and three years and fined up to 1, 000 dirhams ($272. 00). ” Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson