Bowdoin College, a private liberal arts college in Maine, has offered counseling to students who felt “injured and affected” by a group of classmates who attended a   birthday party on campus wearing miniature sombreros. [Two members of Bowdoin’s student government, Duncan Cannon and Claire McInerney, are now facing impeachment after the college administration launched a crackdown.  “This has to do with our social code and the context of other issues we’ve been dealing with as a college,” Bowdoin’s president, Clayton Rose, told the Portland Press Herald. Michelle Kruk, a senior and vice president of student government, told the paper  “It’s not about tequila or sombreros. ” “It’s about casual racial and ethnic stereotyping and cultural insensitivity at a school that has seen far too many examples of both. ” The General Assembly of Bowdoin students issued a “statement of solidarity to stand by all students who were affected by the ‘tequila’ party”. The General Assembly recommended that the administration acknowledge the “deep hurt” caused by the event, and set up a “safe space” for those affected. According to the statement, the college president has already “undertaken to develop a process by which responses to acts of racial and ethnic bias and stereotyping are improved and institutionalized. ” The statement can be read in full here. This is the latest incident of American students being offered therapy after being offended. Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos’ tour of U. S campuses has led to a string of such events, at Pittsburgh, Rutgers, and the University of Michigan. University of Pittsburgh students reported they were “in tears” and “feeling unsafe” following Yiannopoulos’ visit to campus. The problem of coddled students, described   by Foundation for Individual Rights In Education President Greg Lukianoff and social scientist Jonathan Haidt in a longform Atlantic essay last year, appears to be getting worse rather than better. You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook, and download Milo Alert! for Android to be kept up to date on his latest articles.