On the Friday edition of Breitbart News Daily, broadcast live on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125 from 6AM to 9AM Eastern, Breitbart Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon will discuss the terror attack in Nice, France, on Bastille Day, as well as the upcoming RNC Convention in Cleveland and reports that GOP presumptive nominee Donald Trump will tap Indiana governor Mike Pence as his running mate. [Breitbart National Security Editor Dr. Sebastian Gorka, author of Defeating Jihad: The Winnable War, will discuss the terror attack in Nice, France. We’ll also hear from former FBI agent,   instructor, and founder of UnderstandingTheThreat. com John Guandolo, as well as Center for Security Policy President Frank Gaffney.  Former New York City Police Commissioner Ray Kelly will discuss his New York Times bestselling memoir Vigilance: My Life Serving America and Protecting Its Empire City, as well as the first episode of his new   series called “Vigilance,” which will broadcast on SiriusXM’s P. O. T. U. S. Channel this Friday, July 15, at 1pm ET. Kelly’s premiere episode will focus on “Securing a Convention”  —   a topic that he is uniquely familiar with because as Police Commissioner he was responsible for the security preparations for the 2004 Republican National Convention in NYC. Conservative marketing strategist Matt Palumbo and veteran GOP campaign strategist Doug McMarlin will discuss the Cleveland convention preparations and the Pence VP pick. We’ll also hear from Marissa Mitrovich, the founder and editor of the Washington   style blog Politiquette, who will be the first style blogger to cover the Republican convention. Live from London, Rome, and Jerusalem, Breitbart correspondents will provide updates on the latest international news. Breitbart News Daily is the first live, conservative radio enterprise to air seven days a week. SiriusXM Vice President for news and talk Dave Gorab called the show “the conservative news show of record. ” Follow Breitbart News on Twitter for live updates during the show. Listeners may call into the show at:   .