As Thomas Jefferson said,“A little rebellion now and then is a good thing. ”[It’s no secret, there’s rebellion brewing in the ranks of the Republican base. And, for good reason.   Until August, ground zero in that rebellion was, of course, Donald Trump’s candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination, which, when he handily won, rocked and shocked the Republican establishment and political world at large. Truly, he feels people’s pain and has an intuitive, real feel for what’s wrong and what needs to change. It’s that simple. Now, the ringside seat is the First Congressional District of Wisconsin, where House Speaker Paul Ryan uses phrases like “conservative principles” that don’t exactly inspire a country song. He’s being challenged in the August 9 primary by Wisconsin businessman Paul F. Nehlen III, known as the Wisconsin Trump. Nehlen originally supported Ryan until he became disenchanted with his globalist positions on immigration, borders and trade.  Trump, in a show of party unity, has, of course, endorsed Speaker Ryan. But, Nehlen has some impressive supporters. Major General Paul Vallely ( .) who served 32 years in the Army, having retired as Deputy Commanding General, U. S. Army, Pacific, for one, supports Nehlen, saying, “Ryan has not stood tall on controlling Obama and government spending, the border or refugee influx. ”    But, Ryan, “has a chance to show his strength —  now,” he said. This   exercise comes via the biggest news of the week, reported by Jay Solomon of the Wall Street Journal. Namely, that President Barack Obama authorized the U. S. transfer of $400 million in cash to the Islamic Republic of Iran, the leading state sponsor of terrorism, in foreign currencies used to pay terrorist groups like Hezbollah and Iran’s elite Quds Force, that do its dirty work. The very terrorists who planted IEDs that have maimed and killed countless U. S. fighting men and women and their coalition partners, among other dastardly deeds. “And, we’re rewarding them?” said Vallely. “What treason!” This money, which the Shah of Iran gave to America for protection shortly before his overthrow in 1979, has, for nearly 40 years, been in legal limbo. And, presto, just after the money was delivered in the dark of night in an unmarked   plane, four American hostages Iran’s Hitlerian regime was holding, were sprung free. One hostage confirmed that their release was contingent on arrival of the cash craft —  that they were waiting for hours at the airport and could not be released until the plane arrived. Since the U. S government is forbidden by law to engage in cash transactions with Iran, given its hyperkinetic terrorist activity, Obama’s actions are clearly impeachable, said Vallely —  especially given that, “it appears obvious the cash was ransom money. ” To argue, he said, that this money was part of the Iran nuclear deal and since we do not have a banking relationship with Iran, it was cash or nothing and that it’s just “random coincidence” that the plane arrived and the hostages were released simultaneously, is “pure bull. ” The money could have been wired, if necessary, via an international body, and the coincidence theory “stinks. ” Therefore, the “hard, cold truth,” he said, is that House Speaker Paul Ryan has no choice but to initiate impeachment proceedings to remove the President of the United States, Barack Obama, from office.  “He may well be planning to do so,” he said. “Otherwise it’s a dereliction of duty. ”  “Let’s hope he does the right thing,” said Vallely. But, “let’s also keep our eyes on the prize. The most important victory ensuring we prevail over this treason is in November when ‘America First’ citizens elect Trump. ”  Mary Claire Kendall is a   writer and author of Oasis: Conversion Stories of Hollywood Legends. She served four years in the Presidential Administration of George H. W. Bush and has written extensively about the Middle East.