Hillary Clinton suggested politicians should have “both a public and a private position,” according to an email disclosing an excerpt of a speech from April 4, 2013 to the National   Council. [WikiLeaks released 2, 050 emails from Clinton’s campaign chairman John Podesta on Friday, revealing excerpts from several of Clinton’s paid speeches.  “But if everybody’s watching, you know, all of the back room discussions and the deals, you know, then people get a little nervous, to say the least. So, you need both a public and a private position,” Clinton allegedly stated in the April 24, 2013 speech, according to WikiLeaks. Clinton continued: You just have to sort of figure out how to  —   getting back to that word, “balance”  —   how to balance the public and the private efforts that are necessary to be successful, politically, and that’s not just a comment about today. That, I think, has probably been true for all of our history, and if you saw the Spielberg movie, Lincoln, and how he was maneuvering and working to get the 13th Amendment passed, and he called one of my favorite predecessors, Secretary Seward, who had been the governor and senator from New York, ran against Lincoln for president, and he told Seward, I need your help to get this done. And Seward called some of his lobbyist friends who knew how to make a deal, and they just kept going at it. I mean, politics is like sausage being made. It is unsavory, and it always has been that way, but we usually end up where we need to be. But if everybody’s watching, you know, all of the back room discussions and the deals, you know, then people get a little nervous, to say the least. So, you need both a public and a private position. And finally, I think  —   I believe in   decision making. I want to know what the facts are. I mean, it’s like when you guys go into some kind of a deal, you know, are you going to do that development or not, are you going to do that renovation or not, you know, you look at the numbers. You try to figure out what’s going to work and what’s not going to work. This is the first release of more than 50, 000 of Podesta’s emails, which WikiLeaks obtained. RELEASE: the first 2050 of well over 50000 emails from Clinton Campaign Chairman John Podesta https:  .  #Podesta #imWithHer,  —   WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) October 7, 2016,  Breitbart News reached out to the Clinton campaign for a response to the leaked speech excerpts, but did not receive a response. ***UPDATE***The Clinton campaign hasn’t confirmed the authenticity of the hacked emails that allegedly reveal Clinton’s speeches, but Podesta took to Twitter on Friday in a series of tweets, saying he doesn’t have time to review which documents are real or fake. 1. While I’m in pretty good company with Gen. Powell  Amb. Marshall  …      —   John Podesta (@johnpodesta) October 7, 2016,  2.   …    I’m not happy about being hacked by the Russians in their quest to throw the election to Donald Trump.  —   John Podesta (@johnpodesta) October 7, 2016,  3. Don’t have time to figure out which docs are real and which are faked  …      —   John Podesta (@johnpodesta) October 7, 2016,  4.   …    But, for starters, Assange’s first claim that I   the Podesta Group is completely false.  —   John Podesta (@johnpodesta) October 7, 2016, 