Hans von Spakovsky, manager of the Election Law Reform Initiative and senior legal fellow at the Heritage Foundation, joined SiriusXM host Alex Marlow on Friday’s Breitbart News Daily to discuss voter fraud concerns in the 2016 election. [“The biggest fear I have right now is that people who aren’t U. S. citizens are going to illegally vote in the election,” said von Spakovsky, who has experience working at the Justice Department on election issues. “We know for a fact, from all kinds of different reports we’ve had and cases, that there are   registered and voting all over the country. ”   “You probably saw, within the last couple of weeks, a report out of Virginia that showed that there were more than a thousand   in just eight counties. There’s another 125 counties in the state,” he observed. “And Virginia, as you know, has been considered a purple state. Nobody knows which way it would go. ” Marlow agreed, citing current polling data that shows a tightening race in Virginia and many other states, making it quite possible that voter fraud could affect the five or six electoral votes that decide the 2016 race. “For those who think, well, it can’t be that big of a problem  —   look, two years ago, three professors  —   actually from Virginia’s universities  —   did a study based on congressional survey data, and they estimated that in the 2008 election, when Obama was elected for the first time, they estimated that 6. 4 percent of the   who are in the U. S. illegally voted in that election. 6. 4 percent! That was enough, they pointed out, to potentially have swung North Carolina, which Obama won by a very small margin, only 14, 000 votes,” von Spakovsky said. Marlow highlighted an October article by von Spakovsky, colorfully entitled “When Zombies, Aliens, and Felons Steal Our Votes,” and noted that another voter fraud expert, J. Christian Adams, raised similar concerns on Thursday’s Breitbart News Daily. Marlow noted that the “zombie vote” also trends toward the Democrats.  “For those who think we’re exaggerating, look: just, I think, two months ago, a CBS station down in Los Angeles did something very simple, that you’re sitting there going, ‘Why don’t the election officials do this?’ They compared voter registration lists with the Social Security Administration’s master index,” von Spakovsky explained. “This is their index of people who have died. And they found almost 300 voters who’ve been dead for years, and have been voting in multiple elections. The election officials don’t really have any excuse for why they haven’t taken those people off. But people know those folks are on the rolls, and they take advantage of it. ” “Some of this is ‘random voters take advantage’ stuff,” he said. “There was a guy recently who was convicted of voting in three different states in the same election  —   North Carolina, Tennessee, and another state. That’s just one guy taking advantage of the looseness of our voter rules. ”  “But anybody who thinks there aren’t organized efforts, just take a look at that undercover video that Project Veritas released, where you had two Democratic campaign consultants saying, ‘Oh, yeah, we’ve been committing fraud in prior elections. We’re going to do it again in this election.’ And how do they do it? They organize groups of people and either bus them or send them in private cars into states to vote where they’re, of course, not supposed to be voting. How are they going to do that? They use the names on the voter registration list of people who have died, who’ve moved away, and false names fraudulently registered,” von Spakovsky continued. He said the media are well aware of the real danger of voter fraud, “and that’s why they’re constantly trying to minimize it. ” “They constantly print these claims by opponents of election integrity without doing simple checking,” he complained. “I’ll give you an example of what I mean: I actually got a piece out today, about the fact that the President and others keep saying, ‘Oh, you’ve got a greater chance of being hit by lightning than of being a victim of voter fraud.’ Well, it turns out the National Weather Service, they actually keep statistics on people who have been struck by lightning in each state, so I got an article out today comparing the numbers in a couple of states  —   and, of course, there has been a lot more voter fraud that has occurred than what the National Weather Service says have been lightning strikes on individuals in those states. ” Von Spakovsky said the rigging of the 2016 Democratic primary against Bernie Sanders was evidence of how comfortable the Democrat Party has become with election fraud. “I’ll give you another quick example of that, that nobody knows about because the media didn’t publicize it. Listen, there are four people in Indiana who were convicted in a court of law of ballot petition fraud. What was the ballot petition fraud? They forged the signatures that got Barack Obama qualified for the Democratic primary in Indiana in May of 2008,” he revealed. “They forged so many signatures that if this had been discovered at the time, he wouldn’t have been on the ballot. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 