Five years after a child sex abuse scandal rocked Penn State, damaging its reputation, exposing a revered coach as a serial predator and sending him to prison, a jury on Friday convicted the former president of the university of child endangerment for failing to stop the abuse. On its second day of deliberations, the jury in Harrisburg, Pa. found Graham B. Spanier guilty of one misdemeanor count, punishable by up to five years in prison and a $10, 000 fine. He was also found not guilty of two felony charges, for his handling of allegations against Jerry Sandusky, a former assistant coach. Mr. Sandusky was convicted in 2012 of sexually abusing 10 young boys and was sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison. In 2013, Penn State agreed to pay $59. 7 million to 26 sexual abuse victims in exchange for an end to their claims against the university. The extent and nature of the abuse shocked the State College, Pa. community, upended a university that has long adored its vaunted football program and badly tarnished the reputation of the beloved head coach, Joe Paterno, who was among those suspected of turning a blind eye to his assistant’s conduct. The fallout was swift and   in higher education, sports and even state politics. Mr. Paterno, an icon on campus and the most victorious coach in major college football, was dismissed, and died soon after. Much of his coaching staff was dismissed. The university commissioned an investigative report that harshly criticized Mr. Spanier and other administrators, though he disputed its findings. Mr. Spanier, once a   leader who oversaw a period of expansion, was removed as president, though Penn State confirmed on Friday that he remained a tenured faculty member, on paid leave. Tim Curley, the athletic director, and Gary Schultz, a senior vice president, were forced to leave. When Kathleen G. Kane ran for state attorney general in 2012, one of her main themes was that Gov. Tom Corbett had dragged his feet on the Penn State investigation when he was attorney general, part of a male power structure that she said protected its own. But the cases against Mr. Spanier, Mr. Curley and Mr. Schultz, brought after she was elected, sputtered after legal delays, and some of the charges were dropped. Ultimately, the proceedings against the three men outlasted Ms. Kane, who fell from power in her own scandal, convicted of perjury and abuse of her office. Mr. Schultz and Mr. Curley, who pleaded guilty last week to one misdemeanor charge each, testified for the prosecution. The three men had been told of possible sexual assault, but “instead of reporting it to authorities, they consciously turned their backs and the abuse continued,” Josh Shapiro, Pennsylvania’s attorney general, said after the verdict. “These leaders endangered the welfare of children by both their actions and inactions. There are zero excuses when it comes to failing to report the abuse of children to the appropriate authorities. ” Sam Silver, Mr. Spanier’s lawyer, said, “There always have been substantial questions in this case that need to be reviewed and resolved by the appellate courts, and we fully intend to pursue an appeal. ” The scandal was one in a series of recent cases sending a message that campus crimes  —   particularly sex crimes  —   cannot be kept as quiet, or treated as lightly, as they once were. Administrators have been fired from several colleges and universities that failed to report assaults or treat them seriously, including Kenneth W. Starr, who was removed last year as president of Baylor University. “College administrators have been put on notice that if you know an employee is sexually assaulting people and you leave them in place, you could be held responsible, including legally responsible,” said John D. Foubert, a professor of higher education at Oklahoma State University who has written extensively on campus sexual assault. But the circumstances at Penn State set it far apart from most campus sexual assault cases: It involved the abuse of children, a nationally renowned sports program and the downfall of Mr. Paterno. And the criminal charges that resulted, not just against the attacker but against administrators accused of covering up his crimes, have no parallel in recent memory. The count on which Mr. Spanier was convicted was charged as a felony, but the jury instead chose to convict him of the misdemeanor version of it. The jury acquitted him of another felony count of child endangerment, and a charge of conspiracy, also a felony. “I’d be foolish to be disappointed,” said Laura Ditka, the deputy attorney general who was the lead prosecutor. Asked if she would seek jail time for Mr. Spanier, who remained free on bail, she said, “We aren’t there yet. ” Children’s advocates called the administrators’ convictions a victory for accountability. “We can no longer put institutional loyalty above protecting kids,” said Cathleen Palm, the founder of the Center for Children’s Justice, a nonprofit that pushed for changes to Pennsylvania’s child abuse policies in the wake of the scandal. Supporters of Mr. Spanier and Mr. Paterno held up the acquittal on the conspiracy charge as vindication. “The story should be that there was no conspiracy to cover up child abuse at Penn State,” said Maribeth Roman Schmidt, the executive director of Penn Staters for Responsible Stewardship, an alumni group opposed to the sudden ouster of Mr. Paterno and the administrators. Mr. Spanier has long maintained that he was unaware of the seriousness of the accusations against Mr. Sandusky, who prosecutors said met his victims through his charity work, drawing them in with trips to football games and other gifts. The trial, which began with jury selection on Monday after years of legal delays, offered victims and their families the possibility of new information about what the university’s   officials knew about Mr. Sandusky. Supporters of Mr. Spanier and the administration hoped it would absolve the university of some wrongdoing. “In the view of the jury, with respect to Spanier, and by their own admission, as to Curley and Schultz, these former leaders fell short,” Penn State said in a statement released after the verdict. “And while we cannot undo the past, we have rededicated ourselves and our university to act always with the highest integrity, in affirming the shared values of our community. ” Mr. Spanier sued the university, accusing it of violating their separation agreement. The university countersued, seeking to recoup more than $5 million it has paid him. Prosecutors contended that Mr. Spanier, along with Mr. Curley and Mr. Schultz, was aware of a 2001 report that Mr. Sandusky had showered with a young boy at the university, but that they failed to tell the authorities, acting instead to keep the matter quiet. That choice, prosecutors said, allowed Mr. Sandusky to keep abusing boys for years. They have often pointed to an email written by Mr. Spanier about the episode, after the decision was made to go to Mr. Sandusky directly and tell him to get counseling, rather than alerting the authorities. “The only downside for us is if the message isn’t ‘heard’ and acted upon, and we then become vulnerable for not having reported it,” Mr. Spanier wrote. That could be assessed later, he wrote. For now, he said, speaking to Mr. Sandusky directly was a “humane and a reasonable way to proceed. ” Prosecution witnesses included Mike McQueary, a former assistant coach who testified that he had told Mr. Paterno, Mr. Curley and Mr. Schultz that he had seen Mr. Sandusky molesting the boy in the shower. A victim of Mr. Sandusky’s who said he was abused in 2002 also testified at Mr. Spanier’s trial. Mr. Spanier’s lawyers called no witnesses in his defense, but, according to news media reports, told the jury that prosecutors had failed to provide evidence that he knew Mr. Sandusky was accused of sexual abuse. Instead, they said, he made a “judgment call” and took action about what he knew. Mr. Spanier’s lawyers have said that the charges against him were politically motivated and an attempt to distract from state prosecutors’ failures to stop Mr. Sandusky sooner.