Transgender reality TV star Bruce “Caitlyn” Jenner is “surprised” that Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz has not contacted him over his proposal to act as Cruz’s official ambassador to the transgender community. [In an interview with The Advocate on Wednesday, March 2, the trans icon praised Cruz for being a “great constitutionalist,” and expressed interest in becoming the Texas Senator’s “trans ambassador,” should he become president.  Jenner has apparently not been contacted by Cruz, he told The Daily Mail on Tuesday. Asked by the outlet if he had been contacted by the Cruz camp regarding an ambassadorship, Jenner responded: “Have they contacted me? No. Which I was kind of surprised. ” “I never said I endorsed Ted Cruz. I said I like him. He is a constitutionalist and I think we have to get out country back to something like that,” Jenner also explained. “Out of all the candidates I also feel that as far as the LGBT community [is concerned] he would probably be the worst and need the most help. ” The I Am Cait star continued: “We have to keep our country strong and a constitutional country, and that’s one of the reasons I liked him because of his views to fix the country, not his views in trans issues. ” The Mail reports Jenner then again offered to act as Cruz’s trans ambassador, saying, “We’re all here ready to go. ” The    former Olympian athlete later reportedly stated he would support Cruz over GOP frontrunner Donald Trump, who Jenner previously said would be “good” for women’s issues. “ll listen to him talk, he’ll talk about this and that, he will be great for women’s issues he says, but then he doesn’t say how. I don’t know, we’ll see what happens. ” The   conservative transgender activist has been vocal about the 2016 presidential race in recent weeks. On this week’s episode of I Am Cait, he heavily criticized Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. “I would never ever ever vote for Hillary,” he said on the show. “We’re done, if Hillary becomes president  —   the country is over. ” Jenner then went after Clinton over her handling of Benghazi and her use of a private email server during her time as Secretary of State, He also concluded that Hillary is a “f —  king liar” and a “political hack. ” “You want a person that’s going to lie to you?” Jenner asked.