A new batch of emails from Hillary Clinton’s tenure at the State Department released by Judicial Watch on Monday revealed that a former aide to Bill Clinton asked State to accommodate a request from Clinton Foundation supporter and U2 lead singer Bono. [According to emails obtained by Judicial Watch, former Bill Clinton aide Ben Schwerin  —   who reportedly helped to set up the Clinton Foundation  —   emailed Hillary Clinton staffer Huma Abedin and Clinton Foundation executive Douglas Band on May 27, 2009 asking for a favor for Bono, who was about to embark on a world tour with U2.  “Bono wants to do linkup with the international space station on every show during the tour this year,” Schwerin wrote Abedin and Band. “I’m trying to figure out who the best contact is to talk to at NASA or the congressional committee on science and technology. Any ideas? Thks. ” Both Band and Abedin replied back: “No clue. ” Politico reports that Bono and U2 ultimately did end up using video footage from astronauts during its “U2 360” tour later that year, though it was unclear whether Schwerin was able to accommodate the singer’s request or if he had found an alternative way to obtain the video. Bono has hosted fundraiser concerts for the Clinton Foundation in the past. In 2011, the    singer and his U2 bandmate The Edge celebrated both Bill Clinton’s 65th birthday and the 10th anniversary of the Clinton Foundation with a   concert at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles. Dubbed “A Decade of Difference,” the concert also featured musicians Lady Gaga, Stevie Wonder, Usher and Kenny Chesney. The trove of emails released by Judicial Watch on Monday also revealed that Hollywood sports executive and current L. A. Olympics bid chief Casey Wasserman forwarded a request to the State Department from Wasserman Foundation vice president Tim Hoy concerning securing a visa for a British soccer star, whose name was redacted by the State Department. “Can you help with the below, or maybe Huma? ??” Wasserman emailed Band on May 5, 2009. “I doubt we can do anything but maybe we can help with an interview. I’ll ask,” Abedin replied later that day. Wasserman, a key contributor to Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, has reportedly donated between $  million to the Clinton Foundation. Read the latest batch of emails from Judicial Watch here.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum