Donald Trump addressed Hillary Clinton’s upcoming remarks on the “ ” movement during his campaign rally in New Hampshire on Thursday, saying it’s “the oldest play in the Democratic playbook” and that although Democrats always return to that same well, “the well has run dry. ”[Trump stated:  The news reports are that Hillary Clinton is going to try to accuse this campaign, and the millions of decent Americans who support this campaign, of being racists. It’s the oldest play in the Democratic playbook. When Democratic policies fail, they are left with only this one tired argument. It’s the last refuge of the discredited politician. They keep going back to this same well, but the well has run dry. “She’s attacking all of the decent people  —   of all backgrounds  —   that support this incredible, once in a   movement,” he added, saying she isn’t just attacking him. Trump called on the voters  —   including African Americans and Hispanics  —   who have been disenfranchised by the Democratic Party to “reject the politicians who have failed them and vote for change. ” The Republican nominee said that four in 10 African American children are living in poverty and more than 58 percent of black youth aren’t working. “I’m for change. She doesn’t want change. ” “Every policy Hillary Clinton supports is a policy that has failed and betrayed communities of color in this country. But she just doesn’t care  —   she’s too busy raking in cash from the people rigging the system,” Trump charged. Trump railed against Clinton’s controversial relationship between the State Department and the Clinton Foundation during her time as secretary of state, which some suggest shows a    scheme, declaring that “It’s time the Clintons were held accountable for their inappropriate conduct. ” The crowd chanted, “Lock her up! Lock her up!” a number of times during the rally. The New Yorker said it’s important to vote for him on Nov. 8 and not to allow Clinton to be elected as President of the United States. “No risk to America was too great. ” “We must vote on November 8th to keep the American government from being sold to the highest bidder,” he stressed. “Vote to save your country. ”