Actress Amy Schumer isn’t planning on moving out of the United States after all. [In an Instagram post on Wednesday, the Trainwreck star said that her announcement that she would leave the country if Republican Donald Trump were elected president was said “in jest. ”  “First of all the interview where I said I would move was in London and was said in jest,” Shumer wrote. “Not that anyone needs more than a headline to count something as official news. Anyone saying pack your bags is just as disgusting as anyone who voted for this racist homophobic openly disrespectful woman abuser. ” Schumer had been a vocal supporter of Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. In a September interview on BBC’s Newsnight, Schumer said she would need to learn Spanish if Trump were elected, because she would “move to Spain or somewhere. ” In October, hundreds of Trump supporters stood up and walked out of the comedian’s performance in Tampa, Florida after she began mercilessly mocking Trump as part of her routine. She later read an ironic open letter to Trump supporters claiming she would go to “rehab” to seek treatment. “My heart is in a million pieces,” Schumer wrote Wednesday. “My heart breaks for my niece and my friends who are pregnant bringing children into the world right now. Like everyone else I am horrified that people believed these bumper sticker slogans filled with hate he spewed. ” Schumer also went after those who voted for Trump, claiming they are “not just misinformed,” but also “weak. ” “You didn’t even attempt information,” she added. “You say lock her up and you know something about the word email but what was in the emails? You have no clue. Well I’ll tell you if you were able to read this far through the holes in your sheet. They said nothing incriminating. Nothing. She dedicated her entire life to public service and got our children Heath care and education without discrimination. he didn’t pay his workers. Started a fake college. Ripped people off. Never paid his taxes and sexually assaulted women and on and on She would have taken care of us. ” Read Schumer’s full Instagram post below.  First of all the interview where I said I would move was in London and was said in jest. Not that anyone needs more than a headline to count something as official news. Anyone saying pack your bags is just as disgusting as anyone who voted for this racist homophobic openly disrespectful woman abuser. Like the rest of us I am grieving today. My heart is in a million pieces. My heart breaks for my niece and my friends who are pregnant bringing children into the world right now. Like everyone else I am horrified that people believed these bumper sticker slogans filled with hate he spewed. People who voted for him you are weak. You are not just misinformed. You didn’t even attempt information. You say lock her up and you know something about the word email but what was in the emails? You have no clue. Well I’ll tell you if you were able to read this far through the holes in your sheet. They said nothing incriminating. Nothing. She dedicated her entire life to public service and got our children Heath care and education without discrimination. he didn’t pay his workers. Started a fake college. Ripped people off. Never paid his taxes and sexually assaulted women and on and on She would have taken care of us. I personally would have had to pay higher taxes. All the celebrities backing her would have. People asked how much I was paid to stand with her. Nothing. None of us were paid a dollar. We would have had to pay a lot more because we are fortunate enough to make a high income. But we all wanted to do it to take care of the people in need. She was fighting to take care of you kicking and screaming babies. Yelling about emails you know nothing about and not liking her clothes or her hair she wanted to protect you even you. Well you’ve gotten what you asked for and now you can watch the sky open up. Literally. I am furious. I cry for her and for all the smart people I love who know what’s right and I cry for you people who fell for shiny hats and reality catch phrases. She would have protected you. Today we grieve tomorrow we begin again. Yes this quote is fake but it doesn’t matter, A photo posted by @amyschumer on Nov 9, 2016 at 8:18am PST,    Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum