Former U. N. Ambassador John Bolton stressed the importance of backing Donald Trump over Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential race during his appearance on Thursday’s Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Stephen K. Bannon. Bolton warns Clinton would be “Obama’s third term on national security. ”[Bannon observed that Bolton avoided making an endorsement during the Republican primary, instead using his influence to ensure national security was at the “forefront of the debate. ”  Now that Trump is the presumptive Republican nominee, Bolton gave high marks to his first big foreign policy speech, saying it “brought him into the mainstream of the debate. ” “I think he’s been saying things like building up the American military, in ways that are very, very important, and I’m going to support him for President,” Bolton declared.  “I’ve said for over a year that I was going to support whoever the Republican nominee turned out to be. Back when some folks thought it was going to be Rand Paul, I said I would even support him, because I believed in the power of redemption,” he said, teasing the famously isolationist Senator a bit. “Let’s face it  —   the alternative is Hillary Clinton, and to me this is an easy choice,” Bolton said. “I have to say, I’m fascinated in Washington these days, as politicians say, ‘Well, I’m going to support the nominee, but I don’t endorse Trump, and I won’t say whether I’m going to vote for him.’ If you support somebody, that, to me, is synonymous with endorsing him  —   and what’s the purpose of talking about it, if you’re not going to vote for him?”  “I think we ought to cut through the   chatter and get on with it, and defeat Hillary Clinton,” he advised. Bolton said it would be an “honor to be considered for any position to serve the country,” if he was tapped for a national security or diplomatic position in the prospective Trump Administration, although he added it was “way premature to be worried about that. ” “I think this is going to be a very difficult election, recent public opinion polls notwithstanding,” he said. “I think it’s absolutely critical that Republicans keep control of the Senate and the House. In the Plan B scenario, if Hillary does win, then the only check we’ll have on her is control of both houses in Congress. ” Bolton said Clinton has “tried to project the image that somehow she’s more hawkish, tougher in foreign policy than Obama. ” He dismissed this as “complete fantasy. ” “I think she would be Obama’s third term on national security,” Bolton charged. “The same is true on domestic policy, but on national security, we would be weaker and more vulnerable under Clinton. I think she’s indecisive as well, so you add that on top, it’s a very dangerous time. We face a lot of challenges and threats, and if we don’t respond to them, we’re just going to be put further at risk. ” Bolton has established his own political action committee, BoltonPAC, and is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 