PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla.  —   Even for 10 minutes, Curtis Granderson can’t restrain himself. On a recent morning here in spring training, before the start of his 12th full major league season, he was talking about how, at age 36, he will handle the rigors of chasing down balls in center field. As he talked, he asked for a brief timeout and reached for the   water bottle he had left on the floor beside his locker. This was his sixth bottle of the day, and it wasn’t yet noon. There would likely be another six before the day was done. “You always see him just crushing water,” said his fellow outfielder Michael Conforto, who is 12 years younger than Granderson. Granderson drinks by the sip. He values that over chugging because he believes it gives his body a constant flow of essential fluids. He is also a firm believer in   water, because he can’t drink as much when the water is cold. Thus, a   of   bottles is always adjacent to his locker. “There are always massive amounts of bottles of water everywhere,” said third baseman David Wright, whose spring training locker is next to Granderson’s. There’s also expansive territory to cover in center field. Granderson may not be ideal as the Mets’ primary player at that position, but he is the best option on a roster with numerous corner outfielders. And despite an uneven 2016 season, when he hit . 237, he clobbered 30 home runs, second only to Yoenis Cespedes on the Mets, and drew a   74 walks. Since signing a   $60 million deal with the Mets before the 2014 season, Granderson has primarily played in right. But with another right fielder, Jay Bruce, back for 2017 and Conforto in the mix, Granderson will be asked to man center  —   with some help from   outfielder Juan Lagares, who suffered a strained left oblique on Saturday. The last time Granderson played more than 100 games in center field was 2012, when he was with the Yankees. “He does keep himself in great shape, but the wear and tear of playing center field is going to be tough on his legs at times,” said the Mets’ manager, Terry Collins. Which is where the water comes in. Granderson’s recent track record is proof of how much care he puts into staying healthy. With the Mets, over the last three years, he has averaged 154 games a season  —   as many as he did in his   when he played center for the Detroit Tigers. “I’m the oldest guy here with the Mets,” he said. “I never thought I’d be saying that with any team I’d be on. ” He probably never thought he would be drinking as much water as he now does, either, although he maintains it isn’t water alone that has helped him stay on the field. With experience, he said, he has learned how to give his body a break. “Before, if I wasn’t starting, I felt like I needed to do something, whether it be lift or hit or do something,” he said. “Now, I can shut it down and get back to where I need to after. ” That mentality now applies to the   too. He had tried everything from boxing to Muay Thai (Thai kickboxing) for fitness in past winters, but eventually stopped because it wasn’t worth the risk of overtraining or injury. Instead, four years ago, Granderson added swimming to his   workouts, doing his sessions at his alma mater, the University of Illinois at Chicago. And while he still lifts weights, he has cut back because he didn’t think the extra lifting was necessary. In addition, although some athletes who are Granderson’s age significantly change their diets, Granderson has not done so  —   except for the water, that is. “When people ask me about my diet, it’s hard to explain because I’ll literally eat everything,” he said. “I like vegetables. I like fruits. I like fried stuff. I like sweets. So if you tell me to cut stuff out, that’s no problem because there’s so much other stuff I like. ” In the   his breakfasts are usually oatmeal, fruit and, well, you already know his drink of choice. Often busy with charity work, Granderson packs a lunch of a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, nuts, fruit and chocolate milk. Dinner varies daily. “My biggest thing is to maintain weight,” he said. “If I don’t eat, I lose it by nature. ” During the season, Granderson always eats breakfast, checking what time the hotel or nearby restaurants will finish serving it so he can get there in time. During spring training, he often eats in the Mets’ clubhouse. He also loves napping, if only for 10 minutes, and he uses the many plane rides during the season to get still more sleep. “A lot of guys don’t like flying,” he said. “I’m like a baby in a car. ” But   or regular season, the common thread for Granderson is water, and then more water. A routine sight in the Mets’ clubhouse is Granderson stuffing water bottles into his glove, back pockets or backpack before practice or when leaving for the team hotel. “I always have it by me,” he said. Granderson changed how much water he consumed after a game on May 1, 2010, when he was 29 and playing for the Yankees. In the sixth inning against the Chicago White Sox, he was running from first base to third on a single when he felt a twinge in his groin area. He left the game and was placed on the   disabled list. He was already dealing with a sore throat and a fever, and the Yankees sent him to a hospital to get intravenous fluids. “There they told me: ‘Man, even your veins are dehydrated. You just haven’t been drinking that much water,’” Granderson said. He returned to the Yankees’ lineup after four weeks of rehabilitation, but he made a vow to drink more water. Since then, Granderson has not completely avoided injuries  —   he sustained a fractured right forearm and broken left pinkie after being hit by pitches in 2013 and has had minor calf ailments that have lasted a few days. But a lack of hydration has not been an issue. “It takes a while to get used to,” he said about all the water. “You wake up a lot a night to go to the bathroom when you first start. ” Granderson now has his water consumption down to a science. Before he arrives at the stadium during spring training, he has already consumed two   bottles. Then he has 12 ounces with breakfast. He carries three   bottles out to batting practice with him. He’ll have another one with lunch, often with electrolyte powder mixed in. His postgame protein shake is followed by another bottle of water on the way home, and then several more before he goes to sleep. Granderson also drinks decaffeinated tea but doesn’t consume soda, juice or coffee. Those were pushed aside when his water consumption shot up. Asked about Granderson’s water intake, Dr. Melissa Leber, an assistant professor of orthopedics at the Icahn School of Medicine medicine at Mount Sinai, in New York, put it in a larger context. The average sweat rate of an adult while running is about two liters an hour, she said. So an active adult in a warm climate should consume up to six liters of water a day. That is in the general vicinity of how much water Granderson takes in daily, although baseball can be a stationary sport at times, which means Granderson isn’t always running around. But he is always looking to take another sip, amazing his teammates in the process. “I’d just feel full all the time drinking that much,” said Conforto, who estimated he drank perhaps six bottles a day. “But it’s clearly working for him. ”