The British people have lost trust in the establishment and no matter what the outcome of Thursday’s referendum, they will never trust their rulers again, UKIP Assembly Member Peter Whittle has said. [Speaking on Breitbart News Daily this morning, the London Assembly Member said that many people in Britain have stopped believing what they hear in the mainstream media, particularly the BBC, regarding immigration and on Thursday may vote to give the Establishment a bloody nose.  “The majority of people in the country have realised that whilst we are in this thing called the EU we cannot control our borders,” Mr Whittle said. “So when the Prime Minister says thing such as ‘I’m going to get migration down to the tens of thousands’ people realise he can’t be telling the truth while we are in the EU. ” This distrust has spread not just to British politicians but foreign leaders as well. For example, when US President Barack Obama told Britons that they were better off within the EU, people “took a healthy lack of interest” to a foreign leader trying to “intervene and say what is good for us”. A lot of this has to do with the “groupthink” of the mainstream media, which mostly employs people who like the EU and cannot see any problem with mass immigration, Mr Whittle added. It also stems from the fact that after the Second World War, Europe’s elites stopped trusting the people and instead embarked on a utopian vision of a united Europe. If you look across to continental Europe, Mr Whittle said, “much of the   movement is actually amongst young people, particularly in places like Italy,” something he described as “very encouraging. ” Expressing his disappointment that many young people in Britain apparently do not feel the same way, he explained: “In this country we have generations who have grown up essentially thinking that this is the natural order of things, and so somehow or other they have to be particularly convinced that when it comes to our sovereignty, when it comes to our liberty, these are concepts which are far more important than the ability to have great telephone roaming charges across Europe. ” No matter what the result on Thursday, however, it is clear people no longer trust the elite. “Whatever happens on Thursday things cannot stay the same. “The British ruling class are very clever and they have always had the ability to somehow keep the appearance of things the same even when things have actually changed, but I think that the credibility of some of our most senior politicians is seriously damaged. ” “We have had this stasis now for way too long and I think that we need a great renewal after Thursday and I hope that’s what we’re going to get,” he said. 