The N. F. L. gave its approval on Monday for the Oakland Raiders to move to Las Vegas, casting aside decades of fears that putting a team in the gambling capital would corrupt the sport, while sending the team to a new and growing market but one that is far smaller. The team owners, meeting in Phoenix, voted overwhelmingly,   persuaded that having a team in Las Vegas would allow the league to capitalize on the city’s booming tourist trade and image of excitement, and on its willingness to contribute hundreds of millions of dollars toward the construction of a new stadium. For years, major leagues steered clear of Las Vegas because some owners worried that putting a team there would lead more players and referees to rub elbows with unsavory characters from the gambling world trying to influence games. But such attitudes have faded with the growth and acceptance of gambling around the country, and with the city’s reduced reliance on revenue from its many casinos. The N. H. L. agreed last year to create a team in Las Vegas, the Golden Knights, that will begin play this year. The Raiders, known for a passionate fan base that delights in a   image, are likely to begin playing in Las Vegas as soon as 2019, in temporary quarters, with the lease at their current stadium expiring after the 2018 season. In 2020, they are expected to move into a nearly $2 billion stadium, with $750 million in public financing, an arrangement that helped attract the league’s interest. The rest of the money was expected to come from a $600 million loan from Bank of America to the team, $200 million from the league and revenue from naming rights and other deals. “We know that some fans will be disappointed and even angry,” said Mark Davis, the Raiders’ principal owner. “But we hope they do not direct that frustration to the players, coaches and staff. ” Libby Schaaf, the mayor of Oakland, said that losing the team would tear at the city’s psyche and pride, and that the league would regret its decision. “The Raider nation is the last of the       fan bases, and it absolutely breaks my heart to lose this team,” she said. The team will become the first to leave its home city, return and then leave again. The Raiders are also the third N. F. L. team to move, or announce a move, in a little more than a year, ending a period of turmoil in which the owners agreed to abandon longtime N. F. L. cities that were unable to appease the owners’ desire for bigger markets and more public financing for new stadiums. Last year, the Rams left St. Louis for Los Angeles, and then the Chargers announced that they would leave San Diego to move in with the Rams, starting in the fall. Davis said repeatedly that he was frustrated with the efforts by lawmakers in California to replace the team’s current home,   County Coliseum, one of the oldest stadiums in the league. Unlike the Rams and the Chargers, who left immediately for their new homes, the Raiders will remain in Oakland for at least two more seasons while their new home is built, creating the specter of awkward   seasons. Davis said the team would continue to be called the Oakland Raiders during that time. Only Stephen M. Ross, the owner of the Miami Dolphins, voted against the deal. He said in a statement after the vote that not all the options to stay in Oakland had been exhausted. Other owners voted reluctantly for the move because, they said, the league would be leaving the   television market in the country for the  . Oakland is also in the booming San Francisco Bay Area, home to some of the wealthiest fans and sponsors in the country. Las Vegas is recovering from one of the most brutal recessions in its history. Unemployment in Clark County, Nev. was 5. 1 percent in January, compared with 14. 1 percent in 2010. A region that was once the face of the foreclosure crisis is turning around, economists say. Las Vegas, which long led the nation in foreclosures, was ranked No. 22 in February, according to Attom Data Solutions, a housing tracker. The median price of a house in the Las Vegas region was $199, 000 in January, a nearly 5 percent jump over the year before, still a far cry from the booming housing market in Oakland. And revenue from gambling  —   a key marker for tracking the health of the economy  —   increased 2. 7 percent statewide compared with six months ago, according to the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas. The league owners preferred the certainty of a substantial amount of tax dollars for a stadium over uncertain prospects for the team in Oakland, where Ms. Schaaf said often that her city could not afford to pay for the construction of a new stadium. She suggested it could provide the land and infrastructure improvements, and said she was working with Fortress Investments to secure construction financing. Yet in a letter he sent to the mayor last week, Commissioner Roger Goodell said that was not enough, all but sealing the team’s fate. While the league’s stance on Las Vegas has softened, it continues to uphold rules that prevent owners from holding stakes in gambling operations. That was a big reason that Davis ended his dalliance with Sheldon Adelson, the chairman of the Las Vegas Sands Corp. who offered to pay for part of a new stadium in Las Vegas. The Raiders will be the second major team to go to Las Vegas, after the N. H. L. team, and there has been talk of Major League Baseball, M. L. S. and the N. B. A. moving to Las Vegas as well. The moves by the Rams, the Chargers and the Raiders ended a long period of relative stability. They were the first franchises to move in the league since the   when the Browns moved to Baltimore, the Rams to St. Louis and the Oilers to Tennessee. The decision to let the teams move has been wrenching and filled with vitriol. Lawmakers in St. Louis approved funding for a new stadium for the Rams, yet the N. F. L. owners rejected their efforts in favor of a proposal by the Rams’ owner, E. Stanley Kroenke, to pay for a $2. 6 billion stadium in Inglewood, Calif. south of downtown Los Angeles. After trying for years to get a new stadium in San Diego, the Chargers applied to move to Los Angeles in 2015. When the owners chose the Rams instead, the Chargers did an   and backed a referendum that would have provided hundreds of millions of dollars for a stadium in downtown San Diego. Voters soundly rejected the proposal. The Raiders, though, have a much wider following, in Oakland and across the nation. The team got its start as a charter member of the American Football League in 1960, then went to the N. F. L. when the leagues merged in 1970. After two Super Bowl victories in Oakland, the team owner Al Davis defied the other owners and moved to Los Angeles for the 1982 season, only to return to Oakland in 1995 after the city agreed to expand the Coliseum for him. The team’s tough image delighted the port city’s   fans, who earned a reputation for tormenting visiting players. Fans sitting in the “Black Hole,” a cheering section near the field, perpetuated the team’s menacing reputation. But as team after team moved into new stadiums over the last decade, and as the teams’ valuations soared, Mark Davis, who took over ownership when Al Davis died in 2011, started to complain openly about his team’s stadium. The team is the only one in the league that shares a building with a baseball team, the Oakland A’s, and the Raiders are among the teams that generate the least amount of revenue from their home games, lacking the fancy suites and epicurean dining options that other stadiums have. Yet fans continue to flock to their games, including last season, when the team was   and, after 13 seasons without a playoff appearance, made the   game, in which it lost to the Texans. Now it is Oakland that will be losing the Raiders. Again.