The California   Rail Authority came up empty when it asked the outgoing administration of President Barack Obama for a $15 billion loan, the Los Angeles Times reports. [State officials feared that with Republican Donald J. Trump taking office  —   somewhat unexpectedly  —   in January, and perhaps cutting off funding to the struggling project, which has never had a clear idea of how it would be financed, they would appeal to the Obama administration for a financial break.  The Times notes: With the Obama administration on its way out, it seemed like a good time to nail down more   federal support on the assumption that Hillary Clinton would be the next president. So the state set up a meeting to ask the U. S. Department of Transportation to publicly announce a federal loan of up to $15 billion that would help build an initial rail segment from San Jose to Shafter, northwest of Bakersfield, which would cement federal support during the transition to a new presidential administration. Such a loan  —   even the commitment for one  —   would also show potential private investors that the project was “creditworthy,” according to a briefing document for the meeting. But federal officials did not go along with the state’s suggestion. “At this time, California has not submitted a financing request,” said Clark Pettig, press secretary for the Transportation Department. The failure of the   effort leaves the project’s future in doubt. Ironically, the Trump transition team has been talking about making large capital investments in infrastructure, to the tune of some $1 trillion nationwide. However, the incoming Trump administration plans to use private capital where possible  —   something California’s   rail had trouble attracting. And it intends to aim investment where it would actually be economically feasible. For   rail in California, that might mean a train from Los Angeles to Las Vegas  —   not from the Bay Area to L. A. At any rate, with Trump’s victory, the proposal so beloved by Gov. Jerry Brown  —   touted as something of an answer to climate change, rather than a giant “green elephant”  —   looks to be a rail to nowhere. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. He was named one of the “most influential” people in news media in 2016. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.