The Democratic Party and liberal media are targeting U. S. gays with a “brainwashing campaign,” deliberately removing the issue of radical Islam from the conversation, Michael Lucas, a gay pornographic film actor and director, charged in a radio interview. [Lucas is founder and CEO of Lucas Entertainment, New York’s largest gay adult film company and one of the biggest gay porn production companies in the world.  Lucas said, “Islam hates women, it vomits on women, it vomits on gays, on anything that is different. ” Asked to clarify his remarks, Lucas said that “radical Islam kills gays. Islam vomits on them. ” The porn star stated that liberal opinion makers from President Obama on down are skewing the national conversation following the Orlando terrorist massacre to focus on gun control and the shooter’s own reported gay background “and completely take the conversation about radical Islam off the table. ” This campaign, Lucas stated, is “feeding them (gays) this liberal propaganda so that God forbid they will not change their political affiliation. So that historically they will remain voting for (the) Democratic Party. ” Lucas made the comments in an interview set to run in full on this reporter’s Sunday night talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio,” broadcast on New York’s AM 970 The Answer and Philadelphia’s NewsTalk 990 AM. Listen to the audio of the interview below: Lucas told me he found it “interesting and frustrating to see how the liberal media is rallying gays to keep them at the liberal base and God forbid to change their thinking to move it away from the party line, which is that all the religions are bad and Islam has its homophobes just like Christianity   …     and Judaism. ” Continued Lucas: You know, it is all so very, very frustrating to me the double standard. If this would be done by a Christian or by a Jew it would immediately be called (a) Christian extremist attack by a Christian extremist or by a Jewish extremist. Yet when it comes to Islam, it cannot be called this way. Because it was done by a Muslim in the name of Islam. It is right away the conversation is about the internal struggle of this man who is gay and who had this internal struggle and that is why and that is the reason. Or just because he was a loner and had mental issues and that’s why he was beating up his wife and because it had to do with gun control because he could go and buy guns. And that all might be true. But Muslim extremism is at the root of all of that. Lucas further charged that Obama has failed to spotlight mainstream Islam’s treatment of gays. He said he believes homophobia is part of Islam and that the religion “vomits on women, it vomits on gays, on anything that is different. ” It’s not that Obama does not care about murderers of gay people. It is that Obama himself, as the liberal that he is, he doesn’t understand that homophobia is a part of Islam. Just like Islam hates women, it vomits on women, it vomits on gays, on anything that is different. And this is something that Obama either does not understand or does not want to understand. Liberals are always looking at Muslims as underdogs. Even now that we see  …    in this particular incident, we see that Muslims are aggressors and murderers. Radical Islam is a murderer of gay men and women. Yet again, the president doesn’t want to see it.  Not only he doesn’t want to see it this way. He doesn’t want anyone to see it this way. That is the problem. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.  