Stephen K. Bannon (or, for those who want to maximize their SEO, Steve Bannon) gives an exclusive interview to Michael Wolff at the Hollywood Reporter, previewing his ambitious agenda for   Donald Trump. While Bannon seems to relish the left seeing him as “Darth Vader” or “Satan,” he describes himself as “Thomas Cromwell in the court of the Tudors. ”[From The Hollywood Reporter:  What he seems to have carried from a boyhood in a   union and Democratic family in Norfolk, Va. and through his tour of the American establishment, is an unreconstructed sense of class awareness, or bitterness  —   or betrayal. The Democratic Party betrayed its   roots, just as Hillary Clinton betrayed the   Clinton connection  —   Bill Clinton’s connection  —   to the working man. “The Clinton strength,” he says, “was to play to people without a college education. High school people. That’s how you win elections. ” And, likewise, the Republican party would come to betray its   constituency forged under Reagan. In sum, the working man was betrayed by the establishment, or what he dismisses as the “donor class. ” To say that he sees this donor class  —   which in his telling is also “ascendant America,” e. g. the elites, as well as “the metrosexual bubble” that encompasses cosmopolitan sensibilities to be found as far and wide as Shanghai, London’s Chelsea, Hollywood and the Upper West Side  —   as a world apart, is an understatement. In his view, there’s hardly a connection between this world and its opposite  —     America,   America, downwardly mobile America  —   hardly a common language. This is partly why he regards the liberal characterization of himself as socially vile, as the politically incorrect devil incarnate, as laughable  —   and why he is stoutly unapologetic. They  —  liberals and media  —   don’t understand what he is saying, or why, or to whom. Breitbart, with its casual provocations  —   lists of its varied incitements (among them: the conservative writer David Horowitz referred to conservative pundit Brill Kristol as a “renegade Jew,” and the site delighting in headlines the likes of “Trannies 49Xs Higher HIV Rate” and “Birth Control Makes Women Unattractive and Crazy”) were in hot exchange after the election among appalled Democrats  —   is as obtuse to the    class as Lena Dunham might be to the    workingman class. And this, in the Bannon view, is all part of the profound misunderstanding that led liberals to believe that Donald Trump’s mouth would doom him, instead of elect him. Bannon, arguably, is one of the people most at the battle line of the great American divide  —   and one of the people to have most clearly seen this battle line. He absolutely  —   mockingly  —   rejects the idea that this is a racial line. “I’m not a white nationalist, I’m a nationalist. I’m an economic nationalist,” he tells me. “The globalists gutted the American working class and created a middle class in Asia. The issue now is about Americans looking to not get f —  ed over. If we deliver —  ” by “we” he means the Trump White House “ —  we’ll get 60 percent of the white vote, and 40 percent of the black and Hispanic vote and we’ll govern for 50 years. That’s what the Democrats missed, they were talking to these people with companies with a $9 billion market cap employing nine people. It’s not reality. They lost sight of what the world is about. ” In a nascent administration that seems, at best, random in its beliefs, Bannon can seem to be not just a focused voice, but almost a messianic one: “Like [Andrew] Jackson’s populism, we’re going to build an entirely new political movement,” he says. “It’s everything related to jobs. The conservatives are going to go crazy. I’m the guy pushing a   infrastructure plan. With negative interest rates throughout the world, it’s the greatest opportunity to rebuild everything. Ship yards, iron works, get them all jacked up. We’re just going to throw it up against the wall and see if it sticks. It will be as exciting as the 1930s, greater than the Reagan revolution  —   conservatives, plus populists, in an economic nationalist movement. ” Read the rest of the story here.