Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos appeared on the Joe Rogan Experience this week to discuss a range of topics including the left’s hypocrisy over racism and how feminists treat abortions like badges of honor. [“Don’t you know it’s impossible to be racist against white people? Don’t you know?” joked Rogan, after discussing the difference between “black face” and “white face” acts. “Isn’t that the most adorable thing that people have created to try to justify black racism against white people? That it is not possible. ”  “It’s this amazing combination of ignorance and condescension, because they’re stupid and they’ve never read a history book, and they don’t understand how bigotry or hatred works or any kind of historical function or any psychological process whatsoever” replied Yiannopoulos. “And at the same time they try to explain to you how you don’t actually know what racism means. ‘You see racism isn’t just thinking another race isn’t as good as yours, racism is actually a complex system of prejudice, oppression  …    ’” “It can only be done if you have power, and white people have power. Black people don’t have power. It’s not like there’s a black president  …    ” added Rogan. “That’s weird because at my college talk there were black people forcing me off stage while the university administration told Chicago PD not to intervene, I mean  …     This was at DePaul, a Catholic university which has some of the most enthusiastic abortion advocates on the campus than anywhere in America  …    ” replied Yiannopoulos. “Enthusiastic abortion  …    ” laughs Rogan. “No, they do!” added Yiannopoulos. “It’s one of the most   places in the world”. “It’s a funny expression. Enthusiastic abortion advocates  …    ” replied Rogan. “They love abortions” declared Yiannopoulos. “Are you kidding me? I’m not joking, this isn’t just me  …     Is it Lindy West from The Guardian, she’s like ‘shout your abortion’. That was a feminist hashtag. It trended! They’re proud of it. They’re proud of murdering babies. They’re perfectly happy to talk about it, they think it’s a mark of pride. Like I don’t make this stuff up, I just laugh along with everybody else. You know? I didn’t invent this. They love abortions! Like it’s a badge of honor. It’s like Scout badges. ‘How many have you had sister?’ I’m serious! These people are insane!” You can watch Milo’s full appearance on the Joe Rogan Experience below.  Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech and former editor of the Squid Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.