Bruce Jenner chimed in on 2016 presidential politics in a recent interview, telling Stat magazine that Donald Trump could be “better” on women’s issues than any current Democratic candidate. [“Everybody looks at the Democrats as being better with these issues. But Trump seems to be very much for women,” Jenner, who now goes by Caitlyn, told the health magazine.  “He backed the LGBT community. But in Trump’s case, there’s a lot more unknowns. With Hillary, you pretty much know what you’re gonna get with the LGBT community,” Jenner added. “He seems very much behind the LGBT community because of what happened in North Carolina with the bathroom issue. ” In April, Trump said that Jenner would be allowed to use the women’s restroom at his Trump Tower property. “You leave it the way it is  …     There have been very few complaints the way it is,” Trump said of controversial   “transgender bathroom” laws in a recent interview. “People go, they use the bathroom that they feel is appropriate. There has been so little trouble. ” Jenner said much the same thing during an episode of his I Am Cait reality show in March, telling a group of friends that Trump would be better on women’s issues than Clinton.  “I think [Trump] would be very good for women’s issues,” Jenner said then. “I don’t think he’s out there to destroy women, or take things away, or do any of that kind of stuff. ” He also called Clinton a “f*cking liar,” and said that if she were to be elected, “the country is over. ” Jenner told Stat magazine that he affiliates more with the “conservative Republican side. ” “I’m not excited with what Obama has done to the economy, to our Constitution, all that kind of stuff. But as far as the transgender community, they’ve actually been very good,” Jenner said. The I Am Cait star’s supportive comments toward Trump comes as Jenner appears on the cover of Sports Illustrated for the first time since winning Olympic gold in 1976. Jenner told Sports Illustrated that he was “disgusted” with his body when he won the gold medal in the decathlon at the 1976 summer games in Montreal. “I was big and thick and masculine. The rest of the world thought it was this Greek god kind of body,” Jenner told SI. “I hated it. But it’s what I was given, so I just tried to do the best I could with it. ” “I loved Bruce,” Jenner added. “I still love him today. I like what he did and the way he set an example for hard work and dedication. I’m proud of that part of my life. But this woman was living inside me, all my life, and it reached the point where I had to let her live and put Bruce inside. ”   Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudson