On Wednesday’s Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Alex Marlow, former Navy SEAL and Blackwater CEO Erik Prince talked about how Hillary Clinton’s leaked emails “truly indicates that everything is for sale for the Democrats, that it really is     —   and if you don’t pay them, they crush you. ”[“For the   Republicans that cry crocodile tears about some stupid private conversation that occurred eleven years ago, and, instead, want to be embraced, or to embrace a Hillary presidency, is   disgusting,” he declared. “If nothing else, it will make America, it will make patriots realize who is   and who is   establishment. ”  “The choice could not be more real and more important for the survival of the Republic than what goes on on November 8,” he declared. “I guess we’ve always suspected that the Left and the media, or the media writ large, has always put their hand on the scale in favor of the Democrats. But the fact that the Clinton Foundation has raised $2 billion, and that 90 to 95 percent of that money was consumed in overhead  —   paying for salaries, paying for private jets for Bill and Hillary and Chelsea to fly around the world  —   95 percent of the money is consumed by overhead, and only five percent goes to programs? That is the worst charity in the history of the world. That is truly a Ponzi scheme on par with Bernie Madoff,” Prince said. “I don’t know how the IRS could even regard that as a   organization any more,” he marveled. “It is a lifestyle support fund for the Clintons. Chelsea Clinton goes to work for the Clinton Foundation she gets paid a million dollars her first year there? What American kid in their twenties does that? Again, the level of corruption, the level of imbalance.   …     I’ve said it before. I’ll say it again: I fear for the survival of the Republic, if we don’t get this ship going on the right track. ” Prince said it would be a mistake to focus entirely on Supreme Court nominations to restore the rule of law: “It’s about all the hundreds and hundreds of federal judges at the district and appeals court below that, the saturation, the amount of damage to our Republic, to our freedoms, to our religious freedoms, to our economic freedoms that these   leftist judges can do. They can do horrid damage long before it ever gets to the Supreme Court. The entire third branch of government can also become completely dominated by insanity, if Hillary Clinton is allowed to be elected. ” Marlow asked for Prince’s thoughts on the Clinton email that revealed she believes Saudi Arabia and Qatar are clandestinely funding the Islamic State (ISIS). “You have to understand, there is a   war between Sunni and Shia Islam  —    Sunni of the Saudis, Shia of the Iranians,” Prince explained. “Were they knowingly, directly, funding ISIS? Maybe, but what I know they were doing is, they were funding any Sunni radical group that could tilt between an   affiliate, an   affiliate, or an ISIS affiliate. All three are bad. All three need to be killed. It speaks to the weakness of Saudi Arabia and their ability to affect realities on the ground, that they’re spreading the money liberally and actually making a bigger problem. ” “But remember, the CIA was very much part of that, as well, arming some of these Sunni radical groups and doing a bad job of vetting, or a   of vetting these guys,” he continued. “And so putting money and weapons in the hands of evil people makes them even more evil. The badness will continue. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 