In celebration of Independence Day, the Obama Administration will be holding nearly 100 naturalization ceremonies for thousands of immigrants in the United States. [U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) says it will welcome more than 7, 000 new U. S. citizens during those naturalization ceremonies being held between June 30 and July 4.  “As we celebrate the birth of our country on July Fourth, more than 7, 000 new Americans will also celebrate the fulfillment of their dreams of citizenship,” USCIS Director León Rodríguez said in a statement. “These new Americans will strengthen the fabric of our nation with their contributions to American society and prosperity, and be able to enjoy all the rights, privileges and responsibilities of U. S. citizenship,” he added. In recent years the Obama administration has embarked on a campaign to encourage eligible lawful permanent residents to naturalize and become U. S. citizens. The administration’s effort has gotten a boost this election cycle as Latino and immigrant rights groups have sought to influence the upcoming presidential elections by getting immigrants to naturalize and then vote. USCIS offers a variety of free naturalization preparation materials to help legal permanent residents prepare for their naturalization tests, including questions about the nation’s Declaration of Independence. Ironically this week the agency took some heat on social media when its   Twitter account posted a civics question listing only incorrect years for the adoption of the Declaration of Independence. The Declaration of Independence was adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776. Does this mean that if you take the citizenship test in Spanish the Declaration of Independence was adopted in 1779? pic. twitter.   —   (((Mark Krikorian))) (@MarkSKrikorian) June 29, 2016,  Nevertheless, this holiday weekend the agency is encouraging the newly naturalized immigrants and their families to highlight the ceremonies on social media with the hashtag #newUScitizen.