Fashion designer Marc Jacobs has cast transgender   Larry Wachowski in his   2016 ad campaign. [Larry Wachowski, 50, makes up half of the film duo formerly known as the Wachoski Brothers responsible for hits like Matrix trilogy. In 2012, Larry came out as transgender and began going by the name Lana.  Jacobs made the announcement Wachowski would join his ad campaign through a photo on his Instagram page on Wednesday: This season’s ad campaign represents a series of connected events a visual narrative. It is a personal diary of people who have and continue to inspire me and open my mind to different ways of seeing and thinking. The spectrum of individuals photographed in our   2016 ad campaign represent a celebration of my America. In collaboration with photographer David Sims and stylist Katie Grand, the people featured in our campaign personify this collection of fashion through their individuality. Collectively, they embody and celebrate the spirit and beauty of equality. It is with an overwhelmingly full heart that I share this first portrait of our   2016 ad campaign. Lana Wachowski. I was first introduced to Lana via YouTube in December 2012. The speech Lana gave to accept the Human Rights Campaign, Visibility Award, (October 20, 2012) was utterly profound in its script and her articulate, brilliant and timeless delivery. She expressed thoughts and ideas that have filled my head and heart always but had never been so eloquently captured in language that was so tangible, intelligent, poignant and full of possibility. I found myself referencing Lana’s words in my daily life and sharing her speech with close friends. In the days before our   ‘16 fashion show and through a fateful series of communications, much to my incomprehensible delight, Lana accepted an invitation to our show in New York City and thus I took her, “fashion show virginity. ” Lana’s ineffable beauty captured by David in this portrait reminds me of the personal sentiment she shared with me about, “learning you can make important friends at anytime in your life. ” A photo posted by Marc Jacobs (@themarcjacobs) on Jan 6, 2016 at 1:05pm PST,  “The spectrum of individuals photographed in our   2016 ad campaign represent a celebration of my America,” wrote Jacobs. Jacobs also said, “It is with an overwhelmingly full heart that I share this first portrait of our   2016 ad campaign. Lana Wachowski. ” The designer further explained the season’s ad campaign, saying it “represents a series of connected events a visual narrative. It is a personal diary of people who have and continue to inspire me and open my mind to different ways of seeing and thinking. ” In 2012, Wachowski received the the Human Rights Campaign’s Visibility Award. He accepted the award and gave a   speech about struggling with lifelong gender dysphoria. Jacobs said of the speech: “I was first introduced to Lana via YouTube in December 2012. The speech Lana gave to accept the Human Rights Campaign, Visibility Award, (October 20, 2012) was utterly profound in its script and her articulate, brilliant and timeless delivery. ” She expressed thoughts and ideas that have filled my head and heart always but had never been so eloquently captured in language that was so tangible, intelligent, poignant and full of possibility. I found myself referencing Lana’s words in my daily life and sharing her speech with close friends. In addition to the Matrix trilogy, Larry and his brother Andy have written and directed films like V for Vendetta and Cloud Atlas. They currently write and executive produce the Netflix science fiction series Sense8, which was renewed last August for a second season. Watch Larry’s HRC Visibility Award acceptance speech below: 