Pop diva Miley Cyrus accused GOP frontrunner Donald Trump of being “sexist” in his defense of his wife Melania on Instagram Friday.  After an   super PAC created an online attack ad that shamed the former fashion model for posing nude in GQ in 2000, Trump fought back by warning that he would “spill the beans” on Sen. Ted Cruz’s wife Heidi. Lyin’ Ted Cruz just used a picture of Melania from a G. Q. shoot in his ad. Be careful, Lyin’ Ted, or I will spill the beans on your wife!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016,  During an escalating war of words between the two candidates, Trump retweeted an image of Heidi Cruz and Melania Trump    that was captioned, “No need to ‘spill the beans’   …     the images are worth a thousand words. ” Cyrus, who often appears nude during shows and online, posted the retweeted image, and wrote: “Trump can’t stop won’t stop saying stupid ass sexist s —  t! !!!”  Trump can’t stop won’t stop saying stupid ass sexist shit! !!! Comparing two women! Are you fucking kidding! We will not allow you to destroy everything we have overcome as women! I feel as though we are stronger than ever as a unit. We have an understanding and respect for one another (more than trump can say about anyone, his fellow candidates, other races and religions  other public figures  just HUMAN BEINGS in general, and of course animals! Check out his family hunting photos! !!!) it’s absolute insanity that this has gone on this long and far! Wake me up from this nightmare someone PLEASE! A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Mar 25, 2016 at 4:56am PDT,  Along with posting the    photo, Cyrus accused Trump of attempting to divide women, and attacked the billionaire real estate developer’s children. “Comparing two women! Are you f —  king kidding! We will not allow you to destroy everything we have overcome as women! I feel as though we are stronger than ever as a unit,” wrote the    singer and former child actress. She added: We have an understanding and respect for one another (more than trump can say about anyone, his fellow candidates, other races and religions  other public figures  just HUMAN BEINGS in general, and of course animals! Check out his family hunting photos! !!!) it’s absolute insanity that this has gone on this long and far! Wake me up from this nightmare someone PLEASE!” After Super Tuesday, Cyrus threatened to move out of the country if Trump is elected.  gonna vom   move out da country. #aintapartyindausaanymo, A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Mar 1, 2016 at 6:32pm PST,  The singer also posted a series of images criticizing Trump, including one of her crying.  Yes . That is a tear rolling down my cheek dripping off the end of my nose  …    .. This makes me so unbelievable scared and sad  …    . Not only for our country but for animals that I love more than anything in this world  …    . My heart is broken into a 100000 pieces   …    .. I think I may vomit   …    . That picture on the right is so disturbing  …    . YOU are not destiny! It is not your job to decide when a living things life is over   …    .  YOU DT ARE NOT GOD NO MATTER HOW MUCH YOU THINK YOU ARE! !! ( if he doesn’t think he is ”God” he thinks he is the fucking chosen one or some shit! We’re all just fucking jam between his rich ass toes! Honestly fuck this shit I am moving if this is my president! I don’t say things I don’t mean! ) A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Mar 2, 2016 at 6:07am PST,  She wrote: “Yes . That is a tear rolling down my cheek dripping off the end of my nose  …    .. This makes me so unbelievable scared and sad  …    . Not only for our country but for animals that I love more than anything in this world  …    . My heart is broken into a 100000 pieces   …    .. I think I may vomit. ”