Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” conservative commentator Mary Matalin and liberal commentator Van Jones had a heated exchange over race in America in light of   Donald Trump’s victory.  Partial transcript as follows: MATALIN: Can I have an honest moment here people, Van has to my mind retracted your whitelash with what you just said, no, that we have to not focus on the toxic stuff  —   okay, but you  —   if you don’t, you’re wrong. You are not  —   that’s not the path for progressives. We’ve all agreed at the outset that the path which is Ellison’s message is to go back to the rust belt and the rednecks . You’re not going to get there with climate change and Putin. JONES: I said and stand by it. I said that race was a part and there was a part that   part is part of the whitelash. If you listened to the whole quote you would agree with what I said So i dont take that back —   MATALIN: I did listen and you said what do I tell the kids. I’m a black man in America who went to Yale and written books who served a president and now  —   JONES: I’m a ninth generation American and the first born in my family with all my rights. Ninth generation American, so we have not escaped because I went to Yale all the problems of this country. MATALIN: You should not be a racial polemicist you should be a racial reconciler. JONES:  You should be ashamed about yourself to say that about me to my face. MATALIN: Should I say it behind your back would be better? JONES: I spent more time than you have trying to be a racial reconciler. MATALIN: Really? how do you know that? Do you know anything about me? JONES: Apparently you don’t know anything about me. MATALIN: I do know your daddy, your grandparents were teachers. your grandfather was a bishop. JONES: This is a problem we have right now. It is in fact the case there was a populist revolt in this country, both Sanders and Trump. One was marbled through. if someone like myself married to a white woman who has spent my entire life building bridges can’t point out the   whitelash reaction without accused of being a racial polemicist we have a big problem. Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN