PHILADELPHIA, Pennsylvania  —   Vice Presidential nominee Tim Kaine did a terrible Donald Trump impression in his   attack speech Wednesday night at the Democratic convention. [Kaine spoke Spanish numerous times and also falsely stated that Woodrow Wilson was married to a woman named “Eleanor,” clearly mixing Wilson up with Franklin Roosevelt. Kaine also cited Republican establishment figures Barbara Bush and John Kasich to attack Trump.  Kaine led off by referencing his son in the military to attack Donald Trump’s plan to withdraw from our expensive and questionably beneficial membership in NATO. At 10:11 PM, he spoke Spanish for the first time in his speech. It was less than ten minutes in. That would obviously not be the last time he spoke Spanish in the speech. “I tell ya, if any of you are longing for that party of Lincoln we’ve got a home for you right here in the Democratic Party,” Kaine said, essentially borrowing a talking point that Richard Nixon used in his 1972 GOP convention speech. Kaine sucked up to Bernie Sanders, saying, “We all should feel the Bern and we all should not want to get burned by the other guy. ” Kaine claimed, without evidence, that GOP senators secretly talk about Hillary having been good in the Senate. At 10:21 PM, he went into Spanish mode again, saying, “Si se puede, si se puede, yes we can yes we can yes we can. ” “She wasn’t afraid to stand up to thugs and dictators,” Kaine said of Clinton’s   warmongering. Then Kaine did an interminably long and tone deaf impression of Trump saying “Huge” and “Believe me,” which at first got a very limited crowd reaction before people realized they were supposed to cheer it on. “Does anyone in this room believe that Donald Trump has been paying his fair share in taxes?  …    Hey Donald, what are ya hiding?  …    Folks, you cannot believe one word that comes out of Donald Trump’s mouth. Not one word. Not one word. Not one word,” he said. “Don’t take it from me. Take it from first lady Barbara Bush,” Kaine said, before later citing John Kasich’s absence at the GOP convention in Cleveland. At 10:34 PM, Kaine spoke Spanish for the third time, declaring, “Hillary Clinton is listo. ”