Actress Sarah Jessica Parker says Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is “beyond capable” of defeating any Republican nominee. [“Hillary is, without question, beyond capable and it is the right time, but I’ve been proud of the tone of the conversation on the Democratic side,” the Sex in the City star said. “There’s been substantive, real conversation about policy, legislation, gender equality, pay, and climate.  “The GOP is a freakin’ sideshow,” she added. Parker, who’s a “huge fan” of Hillary’s, says Clinton’s “incredible” life in the service to the public has prepared her for the presidency. “She’s given her entire adult life being in service. It’s really incredible. And she and Bill, I can’t even begin to fathom how much money they’ve raised for the Democratic Party, and how much they’ve supported Democratic candidates,” Parker said. “I think she’s so impressive and such a crazy, wonderful policy wonk, and tireless, and she has enormous, real interest in inequality, choice, gender issues, and looking at how the world has evolved. ” In March 2014, Parker admitted that she’d be more than happy to work for Hillary Clinton  —   adding that she’d take on tasks that range from the duties of an unpaid intern to a hospice caregiver. “I would be happy to get her coffee, or carry her luggage, or offer soup when she’s tired, or make Xeroxes of speeches or documents,” Parker said. “If it proves to be that Hillary is in fact our nominee, I think she’s had extraordinary experience in her life as an elected official, as an appointed official, and even before she served in public life there was an enormous amount of time spent working with children,” the    actress said. Parker endorsed Obama over Hillary in 2008. She worked a phone bank for   Obama in 2008, helped him raise mega cash, and cut an ad for his reelection in 2012. Eight years later, Parker says it’s time to put a women in the White House. “Other countries, including developing ones like Liberia, have had female leaders and are dealing with far more complicated affairs than a Constitution that basically works,” she said. Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson