Conservative columnist and   author Ann Coulter provided Breitbart News with her exclusive reaction to Trey Gowdy’s endorsement of   favorite and presidential candidate Marco Rubio. [Coulter told Breitbart, “I expect this endorsement will be as   as Gowdy’s Benghazi investigation. (Big fat flop. )” GOP frontrunner Donald Trump similarly keyed in on Gowdy’s Benghazi performance, tweeting: I hope @TGowdySC does better for Rubio than he did at the #Benghazi hearings, which were a total disaster for Republicans  America!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 29, 2015,  Coulter and Trump’s criticism of the Benghazi hearings followed an earlier indictment of the hearings by establishment conservative Charles Krauthammer. Following the Benghazi hearing, Krauthammer wrote:  As a PR disaster for the GOP, nothing compares to Benghazi, in which the select committee, armed with truly damning evidence against Hillary Clinton, handed her instead a major victory.   …     The outcome of the hearing is the current conventional wisdom that the committee presented nothing new and never laid a glove on her. How could the Republicans have blown it so badly? Coulter has previously mocked Gowdy for comparing illegal immigration to a child harmlessly wandering into a neighbor’s yard. Gowdy, like Rubio, has backed citizenship for illegal aliens. Gowdy also supported the selection of Paul Ryan as Speaker Ryan has a    history of promoting open border immigration policies. Like Ryan, Gowdy has been tied to open borders advocate Congressman Luis Guiterrez. Ryan and Gutierrez worked together in 2013 to push amnesty, and Gutierrez provided Ryan with one of his early endorsements for House Speaker. Similarly, Gowdy and Gutierrez have expressed mutual admiration for one another, which appears evident in this exchange during a 2013 congressional hearing: South Carolina, which recently reelected Gang of Eight member Lindsey Graham to the Senate, could play a critical role in selecting the Republican nominee.