Four weeks after Donald Trump’s stunning victory over Hillary Clinton in the presidential election, Sally Field still can’t understand how the billionaire Republican businessman pulled it off. [In a heated interview on Chelsea Handler’s Netflix talk show this week, the    actress said that she joined Twitter the day after the election in an attempt to make sense of Trump’s win.  “If you look at his past, if you look at his history, there is no evidence that he can do one single thing that he says he’s going to do,” Field told Handler. “He has shown to be everything that he accuses and has accused Hillary Clinton of being. It is now evident he is all of those things, every single thing that he accused her of. ” Sally Field (@realmommagump) wants to understand why people voted for Trump. And that’s why she just joined Twitter. pic. twitter.   —   Chelsea (@Chelseashow) December 1, 2016,  Field said she doesn’t believe that everyone who voted for Trump is a “bad and horrible” person, but she just can’t understand how he won. “I want to know what other people are thinking,” the actress said. “I want to know why they voted for this man who does not stand for anything. ” Field also lamented that Trump won the Electoral College but lost in the popular vote: “I don’t understand why they call this a democracy and yet the people are not getting the representation that they voted for. ” Field campaigned for Clinton in California in June, joining other stars including Elizabeth Banks, Debra Messing and Mary Steenburgen at a rally in Culver City, where she defended the former Democratic candidate’s high unfavorability ratings. “Women have spent the last one hundred years trying to get out from under the expectation that they had to be sugar and spice and everything nice,” Field said at the rally. “We don’t need sugar and spice and everything nice. We do need kindness. We do need generosity. These qualities are not the same as being likable. ”   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum