Democratic Presidential Nominee Hillary Clinton doesn’t quit  —   even when she is repeatedly heckled by Democratic opponents. [Throughout her convention speech on Thursday night, Clinton was repeatedly heckled by left wing supporters of Bernie Sanders, who were chanting     and   slogans.  Clinton tried to pay tribute to Sanders, but his supporters were not satisfied. “Bernie, your campaign inspired millions of Americans, particularly the young people who threw their hearts and souls into our primary,” she said, praising him for campaigning on economic and social justice issues. “To all of you supporters here and around the country, I want you to know I’ve heard you, your cause is our cause,” she said. But the hecklers reacted by shouting back at Clinton, as she tried to move on. Her supporters reacted by repeatedly chanting ‘Hillary Hillary Hillary!’ until they were exhausted, but Clinton kept on going, reading off of the teleprompter for about an hour. Unlike President Obama’s energizing speech earlier in the week, Clinton’s cadence appeared to be off, even though she did not stop to acknowledge the chaos. Clinton rehashed a lot of her attacks on Donald Trump from previous campaign speeches, including her warning of leaders who claim to be the only one to fix the problems with the country. “Americans don’t say, “I alone can fix it,” she said. “We say, “We’ll fix it together. ” Much filler in the speech was a litany of greatest hits from her year of campaigning. “Yes, love Trumps hate,” she said. “Donald Trump says he wants to make America great again  —   well, he could start by actually making things in America again,” she said later, criticizing him for merchandise made overseas. She tried to portray herself as a tough opponent who wouldn’t be bullied. “Now Donald Trump says, and this is a quote, ‘I know more about ISIS than the generals do,’” she said. “No, Donald, you don’t. ” She again raised fears that Trump would not be stable enough to trust the launch codes with nuclear weapons. “Imagine him in the Oval Office facing a real crisis,” she said. “A man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can trust with nuclear weapons. ” Clinton recalled things said by Trump about women and Mexicans and reminded the audience that he mocked a reporter with a disability. “Here’s the sad truth: There is no other Donald Trump   …     This is it,” she said. She concluded her speech by telling a story about her mother, who forced her to confront a neighborhood bully rather than letting her flee into their home. “She was right,” she said. “You have to stand up to bullies. ”