Liberals lost their collective minds online Friday after Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz suggested in jest that Duck Dynasty star Phil Robertson would be an ideal candidate for U. S. ambassador to the United Nations. [Stumping for Cruz Friday morning at a campaign rally in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, ahead of Saturday’s voting, the Robertson family patriarch spoke   about the U. S. Constitution, the Bible, and Thomas Jefferson.  Robertson, an evangelical Christian, implored South Carolina voters to “vote Godly” by supporting Cruz and resisting candidates like Hillary Clinton and democratic socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders. “Just for a thought experiment, imagine for a second, Phil Robertson as Ambassador to the United Nations,” Cruz joked after thanking Robertson for the complimentary speech. Cruz then jokingly asked, “How much would you pay to see the Russian Ambassador’s face when Phil says, ‘What is wrong with you people? ’” Cruz also stated: “There is a reason why he terrifies the mainstream media. ” Watch the video: Immediately, Cruz’s lighthearted quip was shared as to indicate that he does not have the judgment to lead the country. “Ted Cruz thinks ‘Duck Dynasty’ star Phil Robertson would make an excellent United Nations ambassador,” wrote entertainment industry outlet TheWrap. Meanwhile, leftwing CNN posted a similar headline on Twitter sharing Cruz’s words out of context. Ted Cruz suggests @DuckDynastyAE star Phil Robertson for U. N. ambassador https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CNN (@CNN) February 19, 2016,  Others took to Twitter to share mockery and hostility over the joke: When are folks like Phil Robertson and Ted Cruz going to be raptured already? You people keep promising to leave, but never do.  —   Kyle R (@lefthandturn80) February 19, 2016,  The surprise is that Ted Cruz hasn’t yet called to put Duck Dynasty patriarch Phil Robertson on SCOTUS,  —   Ray Lawson (@Lawsonbulk) February 19, 2016,  Hilarious that @HillaryClinton has esteemed Morgan Freeman, while @tedcruz is featuring   Phil Robertson. Hmm, which side to pick?  —   CalifMartini (@califmartini) February 19, 2016,  Phil robertson better be trending only bc he died and went to hell. Or he admits that hes gay.  —   Name cannot be blank (@juaniam_) February 19, 2016,  Phil Robertson is a joke. Just go back to hunting ducks and keep your mouth shut.  —   Audrey Deitrich (@DeeDeeTrick) February 19, 2016,  So, Phil Robertson is pleading for a Christian theocracy headed by Ted Cruz. Wake the fuck up,  . Vote.  —   The Murloc King (@skunkwerks16) February 19, 2016,  If Ted Cruz suggests Phil Robertson as UN ambassador we should get other reality STAR Josh Duggar as head of Child Protective Services.  —   Tea Party Amercan (@BarryWirth) February 19, 2016,  @NumbersMuncher Embarrassing. I mean really, can anyone imagine Phil Robertson sitting at the UN, coming to believe Berniw would beat Cruz,  —   Steve Kass (@stevenjoshwa) February 19, 2016,  Watch Phil Robertson’s South Carolina remarks in full below: Last February, Robertson was named the second recipient of the annual Citizens United “Andrew Breitbart Defender of the First Amendment Award” at the 2015 Conservative Political Action Conference.