Twitter has fired their new virtual reality project manager just 48 hours after hiring him, following an article by TechCrunch detailing a 2013 Facebook post criticizing “the lower part of society” in San Francisco. [Former AngelHack founder Gregory Gopman, who had been hired to lead Twitter’s Augmented and Virtual Reality initiative, announced his involuntary departure from the company on Facebook, Wednesday, blaming the decision on TechCrunch, who brought up a post made by Gopman in 2013 where he criticized the homeless in San Francisco.  “Anddd I’m fired. Thanks TechCrunch,” posted Gopman on Facebook. “They wrote a smash piece on me last night and comms didn’t want to deal with it. ” TechCrunch, who published an article on the post that Gopman had made over two years prior, criticized Twitter’s new employee, claiming it was an ironic hire “for a company with such an abuse problem from trolls. ” “Just got back to SF. I’ve traveled around the world and I gotta say there is nothing more grotesque than walking down market st in San Francisco,” said Gopman in the post made in 2013. “Why the heart of our city has to be overrun by crazy, homeless, drug dealers, dropouts, and trash I have no clue. Each time I pass it my love affair with SF dies a little. ” The difference is in other cosmopolitan cities, the lower part of society keep to themselves. They sell small trinkets, beg coyly, stay quiet, and generally stay out of your way. They realize it’s a privilege to be in the civilized part of town and view themselves as guests. And that’s okay. In downtown SF the degenerates gather like hyenas, spit, urinate, taunt you, sell drugs, get rowdy, they act like they own the center of the city. Like it’s their place of leisure  …     In actuality it’s the business district for one of the wealthiest cities in the USA. It a disgrace. I don’t even feel safe walking down the sidewalk without planning out my walking path. You can preach compassion, equality, and be the biggest lover in the world, but there is an area of town for degenerates and an area of town for the working class. There is nothing positive gained from having them so close to us. It’s a burden and a liability having them so close to us. Believe me, if they added the smallest iota of value I’d consider thinking different, but the crazy toothless lady who kicks everyone that gets too close to her cardboard box hasn’t made anyone’s life better in a while. “With so many   moves that should be happening, it’s odd that hiring Gopman was the one that Twitter made,” said TechCrunch reporter Lucas Matney. “Most of us have said things online that we later regret, and you don’t necessarily want to rake someone over the coals for the rest of their career over one dumb post. But even Gopman’s efforts to make amends for his comments have gone poorly. ” TechCrunch faced heavy criticism in their comments section on the piece, which was likened by one user to an article that would appear “in a gossip magazine. ” “The irony of this article is that you mention Twitter’s harassment issues and trolling, yet you yourself appear to troll and harrass Mr. Gopman,” commented one user. “The only troll I see in this article is yourself, Mr. Lucas Matney. ” “Why bring up old dirt on someone? Total d*ck move,” posted another. “Bullying, pure and simple. Shame on you TechCrunch,” added another. “Working at Twitter was actually awesome. Much better than I expected,” said Gopman in a comment to TechCrunch. “I worked on an incredible team and we were doing really amazing things. Yesterday we were flying. And now it’s all over. I still love them and wish them the best. ” Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.