Actor Bryan Cranston unloaded on Donald Trump in an interview with Larry King this week, comparing the presumptive Republican presidential nominee to a “massive” cargo ship without cargo and promising to campaign for his chief rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton. [“I think [Trump] is like a huge cargo ship. Massive, commands attention. Demands it. His wake leaves tremendous problems. His displacement of water is enormous. And yet, you go into the cargo hold and you go, ‘Hello, hello’ and it’s empty. There’s nothing there,” the Breaking Bad star said in an interview airing July 8 on Ora TV’s Larry King Now.  The actor says Trump wants to be president, but he doesn’t want to do the actual job. “This is a man who desperately wants to win that position,” Cranston said “He wants the title of president, but he doesn’t want the job of president. ” “Even his own campaign manager, Paul Manafort, said in an interview that his likely vice presidential candidate will have an extensive legislative background to do the things Donald Trump doesn’t want to do and push policy and make bills and tend to Congress. ” “I’m thinking, ‘Do what he doesn’t want to do? ’” Cranston added. “To put forth his agenda? To create laws?’ It’s like, ‘He doesn’t want it? ’” Cranston, who recently played President Lyndon B. Johnson in HBO’s adaptation of All The Way, said he would do what he could to help Clinton win the White House. “So you’re going to stump for Hillary?” King asked the actor. “Absolutely,” Cranston responded. Last month, Cranston called Trump a “power broker” who is “devoid of substance. ” “I will do everything in my power to make sure that he’s not the president,” Cranston added. Just one week earlier, the     said that even though he does not agree with his policy proposals, he believes Trump loves America and wants what’s best for the country. “I will say, right here, right now on national television, that I believe Donald Trump loves this country,” he told CNN. “I truly believe that, and I know he does. ”     Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson