Breitbart Tech Editor Milo Yiannopoulos joined Dave Rubin on the Rubin Report Tuesday after the Brussels terrorist attacks, during which he discussed the implications of importing millions of Muslims into the west, and the reason why Islam, not just radical Islam, is part of the problem.[  “This is sort of what liberalism has welcomed into Europe,” Yiannopoulos said. “This is the excuse making that’s being made for radical Islam that has prevented us from fighting this problem by people who lie about the source of these people and news stations who refuse to accept that these attacks have anything to do with Islam  …     this is preventing us from fixing the problem. This is preventing people from taking adequate security precautions, and looking after themselves. ” “Europe now is welcoming in millions of people from alien cultures whilst the establishment refuses to accept that these people’s belief systems are just dramatically incompatible with our own, and the regular citizenry are being lied to and lied about constantly, all the time by the media on this stuff,” Yiannopoulos said on the topic of the Brussels attacks. “We have a population that is not able to protect itself, that is not adequately informed about the risks and dangers of radical Islam, and the problem in Europe is that this stuff is now happening everywhere,” he continued. “No one is safe, anywhere in Europe. It’s happened in Paris, it’s happened in London, it’s happened in Brussels, no one is safe from this stuff and what do our politicians leap to the airways to say? ‘I really want to make it clear that this has nothing to do with Islam’. Well it does. It does, and as a gay man I am terrified by the prospect of mass Muslim immigration into Europe. This is one of the reasons I spend so much time in America now, I don’t want to be there anymore. ” “Why are we surprised that Muslims are blowing things up? That’s what they do,” Yiannopoulos claimed. “I don’t care about that, you know it’s horrific for the people who are on the receiving end of this terrorist stuff, but is anybody surprised that ISIS blew something up? No. ” Rubin told Yiannopoulos that he was going to save him “a little bit of Internet hate” and reiterated that the conversation was about extremism, not about Muslim’s as a whole, clarifying that there was a distinction between peaceful Muslims and extremists. “You don’t need to do me that favour. No, I don’t care about the distinction,” Yiannopoulos countered. “It is not extremists. It is not radical Islamists. It is not the people that the security service are worried about that’s the problem, it is the silent majority of Muslims who do nothing in this situation, have no peace movement, have no resistance to their own extreme elements, just like the progressive left in the West. Is it eleven countries that you and I could be killed for who we are? That’s not ISIS, that is mainstream Muslim culture, and we are importing that stuff into Europe in millions. ” “No, I don’t make a meaningful distinction between these things because I don’t care. I don’t see any reason to import these cultures into liberal Western democracies,” he continued. “I see no reason to do it whatsoever, and as Brigitte Gabriel once brilliantly said, ‘In any case, the peaceful majority are irrelevant.’ It is not the peaceful majority that blow up buildings, it is the extremists, and right now in the world all of this stuff is coming from one culture and one religion, and I don’t want it here. ” Upon being asked about how to sort out the problem and what the world needs to do to face this issue, Yiannopoulos responded: “We don’t have to welcome 1. 4 million of them into Germany. We don’t have to lie to people about what Islam is, and what Muslims believe, which the press and our politicians do all the time. We don’t have to intervene in their counties where it’s not necessary and we don’t need to, and I supported the Iraq war, but some of the other things we do in the Middle East are not necessary and just drum up this Western hatred. ” “I mean look, the problem is not just radical Islam. The problem is Islam,” he argued. “There are structural problems with this religion that means it is incompatible with the modern free Western liberal democracy that we live in. ” Charlie Nash is a frequent contributor to Breitbart Tech and former editor of the Squid Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington.