After months of suspense and typically inscrutable standoffishness, Bob Dylan, the elusive Nobel laureate, will finally accept his literature prize at a meeting with members of the Swedish Academy in Stockholm this weekend. Sara Danius, the Swedish Academy’s permanent secretary, broke the news in a blog post titled “Good News About Dylan” on Wednesday, and a spokeswoman for the Academy confirmed it. A representative for Mr. Dylan did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Ms. Danius wrote that Mr. Dylan  —   who greeted news of the prize last fall with two weeks of silence and skipped the December ceremony because of “  commitments”  —   would meet with members of the Academy while in town to play two concerts at the Stockholm Waterfront. She said that those behind the prize will “show up at one of the performances” and “hand over” Mr. Dylan’s commemorative diploma and medal in person. “The setting will be small and intimate, and no media will be present only Bob Dylan and members of the Academy will attend, all according to Dylan’s wishes,” Ms. Danius added. Yet some uncertainty still remains. Nobel laureates, who are awarded 8 million Swedish krona, or about $900, 000, are required to give a lecture on their subject within six months of the prize ceremony, which was held on Dec. 10. Mr. Dylan will not deliver his this weekend. His deadline is in June. Ms. Danius wrote: “The Academy has reason to believe that a taped version will be sent at a later point. (Taped Nobel lectures are presented now and then, the latest of which was that of Nobel Laureate Alice Munro in 2013.) At this point no further details are known. ” For the ceremony in December, Patti Smith performed a version of Mr. Dylan’s “A Hard Rain’s   Fall,” while the American ambassador to Sweden, Azita Raji, read a gracious acceptance speech from the singer. “Not once have I ever had the time to ask myself, ‘Are my songs literature?’ ” wrote Mr. Dylan, a controversial pick because his medium is song. “So, I do thank the Swedish Academy, both for taking the time to consider that very question, and, ultimately, for providing such a wonderful answer. ” More recently, the singer, who rarely engages with the public beyond the stage, gave a lengthy interview to the author and music television executive Bill Flanagan. The chat, which was posted to Mr. Dylan’s official website, covered his new   album of standards, “Triplicate,” in detail, as well as scattered memories of the music business, but mentioned the Nobel Prize not once. In what has proved to be a busy season for Dylanologists, there is still more to pore over: The singer’s new historical archive in Tulsa, Okla. announced on Tuesday that it was officially open to researchers. Because of high demand, those Dylan scholars interested in viewing the 6, 000 artifacts from across six decades must apply for access, showing that their projects qualify for an appointment. A list of everything in the archive, which was previewed by The New York Times last year, is available to both eager researchers and curious super fans online. Among the contents: Lyrics, written in notebooks, on hotel stationery and matchbook covers, along with personal letters, recording contracts and even Mr. Dylan’s leather wallet from 1966, containing “Johnny Cash’s contact information and three business cards. ”