  Olympic medalist Kim Rhode says she’ll educate Lt. Governor Gavin Newsom on the firearms he wants to control. [Rhode reached out to Newsom on Twitter to discuss gun control Proposition 63. So far, Newsom’s response has been silence.  The Twitter comments followed the launch of a   ad in which Rhode talked about the amount of practice required for her to maintain   shooting skills. She said, “If Gavin Newsom has his way, it will make it incredibly hard to keep up my skills. ” Newsom responded to the commercial in a tweet in which he congratulated Rhode on her six medals, then added, “But, did you know Prop. 63 actually exempts ammo bought  used at a range?” . @kimrhode Congrats on your 6 Olympic medals  —   very impressive! But, did you know Prop 63 actually exempts ammo bought  used at a range?  —   Gavin Newsom (@GavinNewsom) September 28, 2016,  Rhode responded: You don’t understand how an Olympic athlete acquires ammunition! https:  .   —   Kim Rhode (@KimRhode) September 29, 2016,  She followed that with another tweet: Not sure where   politicians hone their skills but Olympic shooters don’t just practice at formal ranges  …     https:  .   —   Kim Rhode (@KimRhode) September 29, 2016,  Rhode then brought the closer, tweeting, “But always happy to teach you about the guns and ammo you don’t trust me to own. ” But always happy to teach you about the guns and ammo you don’t trust me to own. https:  .   —   Kim Rhode (@KimRhode) September 29, 2016,  The NRA watched the exchange and noted that Newsom offered no response to Rhode’s offer. The NRA tweeted, “Gavin Newsom gets schooled by good girl with a gun, suddenly goes silent  …     Gavin? Gavin?” . @GavinNewsom gets schooled by good girl with a gun, suddenly goes silent  …    Gavin? Gavin? #2A #Prop63 #gunsense? #crickets https:  .   —   NRA (@NRA) September 29, 2016,  AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.