I’m on the verge of giving up trying to explain why Ignacio Mattos’s food is so good. I once wrote that the cooking at his first restaurant, now closed, dabbled in “deep, surrealist weirdness. ” At Estela, the place on Houston Street that put him on the map, I described his food as “almost familiar, but not quite. ” What struck me at his most recent restaurant, Café Altro Paradiso, was “the inverse relationship between prettiness and deliciousness. ” (What I ate was unpretty and highly delicious.) In retrospect, nothing I wrote captured the qualities that made the food compelling. I latched on to visual style because I couldn’t figure out how to explain why the flavors grabbed me the way they did. After spending some time at Flora Bar, which Mr. Mattos opened in October, I’ve started to think that whatever it is that sets his food apart is something you can’t see. It’s a kind of cooking that’s almost invisible. Flora Bar is inside the Met Breuer museum, Marcel Breuer’s blunt and muscular stack of granite and concrete on Madison Avenue in the 70s, regarded as a masterpiece of the brutalist style. “The taste for its disconcertingly   inverted pyramidal mass grows on one slowly,” the architecture critic for The New York Times, Ada Louise Huxtable, wrote in 1966, “like a taste for olives or warm beer. ” The food at Flora Bar is much easier to like than warm beer. Under the direction of Jake Nemmers, the executive chef, it comes out of the kitchen in a series of tidily formal circles and squares. The rough edges of the cooking at Altro Paradiso and Estela have been refined, which makes it even more astonishing when the flavors come at you out of nowhere. A simple red disc on a white plate, Flora Bar’s tuna tartare isn’t like any I’ve had before it pops with toasted flax seeds and crunches with fried shallots, neither of which hides the clean, cold taste of chopped yellowfin tuna. Flora Bar does not quite reinvent tuna tartare the way Estela reinvents beef tartare, but it comes closer than you’d think was possible. Steak comes with béarnaise and beet hunks. The beets look a little wrinkled, like prunes, and have an uncannily focused flavor. The béarnaise is silky and light on the herbs. The steak looks like steak, sliced. It is tender, and the flavor goes on and on as you chew, yet it doesn’t have the   stink of   beef. Something must have happened to make it so extraordinary, but the answer is not visible. (The beef has been given, among other treatments, a surreptitious marination in fish sauce.) How can a shrimp cocktail hold any surprises? Well, there’s the price, $29, which may be a record. But then there’s the astonishingly fine flavor and texture of the blue shrimp themselves, glossy and appealingly slippery on a bed of ice pebbles. They’re terrific, and so is their dark, uncloying cocktail sauce. Note the name. Flora Bar is, when you get down to it, less a restaurant than a wine bar. The plates are almost all small even the steak, which could pass as a main course, is a far cry from a steakhouse portion. Flora Bar is not trying to be a utilitarian cafe for museum patrons who knocked themselves out taking in Kerry James Marshall’s show upstairs and now want a cheap, filling meal. That job goes to Flora Coffee next door, where you can get sandwiches and pastries during the day. The wine list at Flora Bar is about as exhaustive as any artist’s career retrospective. It contains multitudes, and in three visits, I barely scratched the surface. And I left the shelves and shelves of tempting, knowledgeably chosen spirits mostly untouched, apart from the slug of gin that went into my very soothing Tuxedo No. 2 cocktail. As wine bars go, it’s somewhat stiff. The service can be punctilious in a way that I imagine is meant to appeal to the Upper East Sider, but fans of Estela (and there are many Upper East Siders in that group) may find it slightly  . Or Mr. Mattos and his business partner, Thomas Carter, may just be trying to live up to the space. It’s an exceptionally dramatic one, with marble surfaces and banquettes of dark leather and windows the size of billboards that look out on Breuer’s bridge across the moat below Madison Avenue. A sculpture garden when this building still housed the Whitney Museum of American Art, the moat is now an outdoor extension for Flora Bar. I miss the art, but the tables look inviting enough to make me come back when the weather warms up. The menu is part tapas, part sashimi and part something else. On the tapas side, we have wonderfully crunchy croquetas with a soft core of warm raclette, pink shavings of jamón Ibérico, and a plate of anchovies, three cured in oil and three in brine. The quality is impeccable if you can get over paying $18 for six anchovies. I couldn’t. Representing sashimi, there is shimmering raw seafood, some of it on or under squares of nori. You’re meant to treat the nori like a tortilla. A month ago, the filling in this taco was raw scallops and a salty streak of plum paste, and I was quietly happy. When I went back, the nori covered sticky raw red shrimp and sea urchin, and I went completely giddy. It took me a minute to warm up to another raw dish, the lobster crudo. Raw lobster is not something you naturally want to cuddle up with. Here it is chopped with shiso and molded into a disc, ready to be swabbed in a   mayonnaise. It’s refined and almost comforting. As for something else, you tell me how to characterize raclette and golden slices of rutabaga over a thin, buttery tart shell, or an omelet that is in fact cooked in a thin disc, inverted on to the plate   down, and then topped with spoonfuls of hackleback caviar, firm trout roe and crème fraîche. There’s a fine line between simple and dull, and one or two dishes fell on the wrong side. Stracciatella with lemon peel and cubes of fennel struck me as an ordinary burrata salad traveling under an alias. Halibut with wild mushrooms was no more than the sum of its parts, although they were very good parts. Natasha Pickowicz’s desserts sound safe but can be daring. Mandarin sorbet in a kind of cradle made of coconut was served with a yuzu sauce so sour it made me sit up straight. After the initial shock, I loved it. If I’d expected the parfait of chocolate and amarena cherries to be a layered dessert served in a tall glass, like other parfaits, I was wrong. This was   chocolate, as dense as ganache, and served in the shape of, you guessed it, a disc.