Country   Bryan Lewis has composed a catchy tune poking fun at the Democrat Party, and the video of his performance of the ditty —  together with a guest appearance by his dog —  has gone viral on social media. [In the song, Lewis takes issue with the socialist tendencies of the Democrats, suggesting that his freeloading dog who has all his needs taken care of for him resembles the trend of the modern version of Andrew Jackson’s Democrats.  After touching on everything from immigration to Benghazi to the Second Amendment, Lewis ends the tune by proposing that his dog may well be the offspring of presidential candidate Hilary Clinton (known for her bark) and that he’s nothing by a “   government health,   Democrat. ” Complete Lyrics to “I Think My Dog’s a Democrat” by Bryan Lewis. Well, I think my dog’s a DemocratAnd it breaks my heart to have to say an ugly thing like that. But there’s a big old pile of evidence that all points toward the factThat my dog might be a Democrat. I pay for all his healthcare and I buy everything he eatsI provide him with a place to live just to keep him off the streets. Well, he just acts like he’s entitled, Even tried to unionize the cat, Yeah, I think my dog’s a Democrat. He chewed up the Constitution that I keep on display, And every time Benghazi’s on TV he looks the other way. I know he’s a liberal even if he won’t admit it. He pooped on my living room rug and tried to tell me George Bush did it. He ain’t got no papers and what really gets my goatIs if he could find a ride to town, well, I know they’d let him vote! Sure, we’ve had some good times and he’s been fun to have aroundBut if he ever barks about my right to bear armsI’m going to have to have him put down. I pay for all his healthcare and I buy everything he eats. I provide him with a place to live just to keep him off the streets. You’d have to be a Socialist to ever act like that, So my dog must be a Democrat. His behavior has been hintin’ his mom might be Mrs. Clinton( video of Hillary “arfing”). Yeah, I think my dog’s a  government health,   Democrat. Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @   <! [CDATA[! function( d,s, id){var js, fjs=d. getElementsByTagName( s)[0],p= ^