Playboy’s 2015 “Playmate of the Year,” Dani Mathers, 29, is under criminal investigation by the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) after she publicly shamed an unidentified woman at an LA Fitness gym by secretly snapping and posting a naked picture of her changing in a private locker room onto social media. [Mathers issued a public apology from her SnapChat account after the incident, but her critics are not buying it.  Mathers’s photo shows a more robust, unidentified naked woman in the gym’s private locker room behind her, accompanied by the caption: “If I can’t unsee this, then you can’t either” accompanied by a snap of herself covering her face with her hands. A spokesperson for LA Fitness told Entertainment Tonight (ET): Our written rules are very clear: Cell phone usage and photography are prohibited in the locker rooms. This is not only our rule, but common decency. Her behavior is appalling and puts every member at risk of losing their privacy. Her membership has been permanently revoked, at all our health clubs, and law enforcement has been notified. According to the Los Angeles Times, “LAPD Capt. Andrew Neiman said the department received a report of ‘illegal distribution’ of the image and that detectives were looking into the matter. He said LA Fitness officials reported the posting to police. ” The LAPD’s West division sexual assault section is reportedly investigating the incident. After Mathers received backlash for her post, she issued a video apology in which she claimed she “accidentally” posted the photo on Snapchat, adding “I have chosen to do what I do because I love the female body and I know that   is wrong and it’s not what I’m about. It’s not the type of person that I am. ” She has also deleted her Twitter and Instagram accounts. On social media, users called for Mathers to be permanently suspended. Hey, @LAFitness, ur going to ban @DaniMathers 4 life, right? Sharing naked pics of unsuspecting woman to fat shame?! https:  .   —   Zen (@ZenInHouston) July 14, 2016, L. A. Fitness on Friday reportedly issued a statement on Friday indicating that the company has permanently revoked her membership from all of its health clubs. The   American health club chain, which was established in 1984, has over 800 clubs across the United States and Canada. However, Mathers’s woes have not stopped there. Online celebrity gossip website Perez Hilton has reported that Mathers, who has appeared regularly on the Heidi and Frank radio show on LA’s KLOS for years, was “suspended indefinitely from appearing on the radio program. ” Meanwhile, social media critics have not taken too kindly to the Playboy bunny: #DaniMathers is the kind of ugly Photoshop can’t fix.  —   Brian Parra (@brianparra) July 15, 2016, She went out of her way to body shame an innocent woman. It doesn’t matter if she sent it to one person or thousands. #DaniMathers,  —   Tiffany Miller (@maude19899) July 15, 2016, #DaniMathers this is why fat people avoid the gym. Being ridicule in a safe space  have a naked photo taken   consent is disgusting.  —   Charlie da Casanova (@bigsexydraws) July 15, 2016, No wonder, so many people suffer from eating disorders and anxiety (indcluding myself) when humans like #danimathers still exist.  —   LA COUR (@frejajeppesen) July 15, 2016, Wow what an ugly personalty you have there good luck putting   on that. #Danimathers,  —   peej (@pjayedgar) July 14, 2016, Some even alluded to Mathers’ own insecurity: Imagine being so insecure that you illegally take a photo of a naked stranger  share it with the world to body shame her. #danimathers #sad,  —   Laura R (@L_J_Rey) July 14, 2016, Follow Adelle Nazarian on Twitter @AdelleNaz