An   poll released Friday shows Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump tied at 37 percent support in a   race that also includes Gary Johnson and Jill Stein. [Trump remains only one percent behind Clinton in a    matchup, 43 to 44 percent. Those who “strongly” supported him rose from 47 percent to 50 percent, while Clinton’s strong support fell from 51 percent to 44 percent.  Half of those polled also backed mandatory deportations for illegal aliens in the U. S. and 46 percent supported Trump’s border wall. Forty percent also supported ending the practice of automatically granting citizenship to anyone born in the U. S. Significantly, 22 percent of Democrats support building a wall, while 28 percent and 27 percent support the end of automatic birthright citizenship for illegal aliens’ children and mandatory deportations for those in the U. S. illegally. Independents want immigration policy crafted to benefit Americans as well: 48 percent want a border wall, 40 percent want to end birthright citizenship for illegals, and 49 percent want mandatory deportations. The contrast between Trump’s and Clinton’s immigration policies couldn’t be more stark. Clinton wants to abolish U. S. immigration enforcement and dissolve the nation’s borders and legalize all 30   illegal aliens within 100 days of taking office. Dangerous illegal aliens would not be deported until after they committed a crime, if then, since she would halt almost all deportations. Illegal entry into the U. S. would not be considered a “deportable offense” under a Clinton administration, which is a key tenet of the   creed: “Namely, that millions of people can illegally come to the country, take jobs, attend U. S. schools, receive affirmative action, apply for federal benefits, and give birth to children who receive birthright citizenship. ” It’s likely a Clinton administration would also work with Republicans to increase already ahistorical and extreme levels of legal immigration. Refugee resettlement from   Islamic nations would also dramatically increase over the objections of American communities. Trump, however, announced in   speech that “anyone who has entered the United States illegally is subject to deportation,” while “criminals, gang members, security threats, visa overstays, public charges” and recent waves of illegal aliens welcomed into the U. S. by the Obama administration would be the first ones expelled from the U. S. He also declared his administration would build a wall on the U. S.  border illegal aliens caught crossing into U. S. territory will be detained and immediately deported sanctuary cities protecting criminal illegal aliens will be stripped of federal funding Obama’s executive amnesties for five million illegal aliens will be canceled immigration from   countries will be suspended a biometric   visa tracking system will be completed after years of false starts   will be implemented and Congress must revisit immigration laws periodically to determine they’re    and serving America’s best interests. Immigration policy and trade have played a major role in the 2016 election as Americans’ opposition to mass migration remains high. Pew Research found 72 percent of whites, 66 percent of blacks, and 59 percent of Hispanics support measures to  “restrict and control” immigration.