Because the DC Media isn’t already seen as an elitist, incestuous club for bubbled Leftists, the Washington Post thought it would be a good idea to have one of its reporters interview one of its own reporters about how mean Donald Trump’s supporters are to them.  Yes, you read that correctly, the Washington Post’s precious little snowflakes are now interviewing their fellow precious little snowflakes about their own precious feelings. In less than 24 hours, this is the third piece I’ve written about our crybaby media whining about getting jeered. And this is happening because this is exactly how our corrupt media coordinates narratives to destroy Republicans. Cue the violins for the Washington Post snowflakes who are now reaping what they sow: Chris Cillizza: Over the weekend, NBC’s Katy Tur tweeted about how Trump’s rhetoric during his speeches is leading to some very aggressive responses from his supporters to the media covering him.  Have you experienced anything like that? And have you noticed a   of either Trump’s   rhetoric or the reactions it causes among his backers? Jenna Johnson:    …     Trump seemed to have dialed back his comments about reporters  —   he still calls us scum, dishonest and the worst people he has ever met, but he stopped singling out specific reporters at rallies and instructing his crowds to not trust those specific people. In the past week, we are once again spending more time at huge rallies, often in southern states, where it’s easier for someone to shout something nasty and then disappear into the crowd   …    . But all of those positive interactions can be easily forgotten when a reporter is verbally attacked at a rally or on Twitter, as is often the case. The few bad experiences that I have had pale in comparison to what several of my fellow reporters have experienced. Television reporters like Tur and Sara Murray from CNN are some of the most visible Trump reporters and that has made them the easiest targets. Last month, Sopan Deb from CBS was accosted by a Trump supporter at a rally in Reno who accused Deb of working for Islamic State terrorists. Then the   Johnson complains about how hard her dream job is: We rarely sleep in our own beds and usually get only a few hours of sleep per night. We rarely see our relatives, friends or significant others and have missed so many birthday parties, weekend brunches and special milestones in the lives of the people we love. We struggle to not gain weight as we piece together meals at arena concession stands, airport food courts and gas stations. We work hard to accurately and fairly cover Trump’s candidacy. And while we all have thick skin, it’s not easy to be attacked for simply doing our jobs  —   especially when comments focus on our looks and not our work. You get the picture. Of course no mention is made of the fact that the Washington Post and the rest of the DC Media have spent near a decade taunting and provoking Trump’s supporters. From what I wrote yesterday: For almost a decade, primarily to protect Barack Obama and push his destructive agenda, the DC Media have relentlessly taunted and provoked these same people. Simply for disagreeing with Obama’s agenda, these everyday Americans have been smeared as racists, xenophobes, homophobes, stupid,   sexists,   and even compared to   and Nazis. And then there is this breathtaking hypocrisy  …    . Keep in mind that this is the exact same made that ensured President Obama paid no political price after his team accused Mitt Romney of murder in 2012 the exact same media that looked the other way when Obama said, “If they bring a knife to the fight, we bring a gun” and “argue with neighbors, get in their face“ the exact same media that downplayed the beating Kenneth Gladney just hours after a top Obama official called on supporters to “Hit back twice as hard. ” Yes, these are now the very same people playing    with Trump because a couple of yahoos at his rally are hating them right back. Again, I’m in no way condoning calling anyone else a “bitch, but if you don’t want to be called names, don’t start it  —   don’t provoke with your own hateful  . Thus far, it has been only female reporters publicly complaining about being jeered by Trump supporters. Last year, Savannah Guthrie needed protection mean old from Rand Paul.   Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC                