Researchers in the United States have created a model of a female reproductive system that is so close to the real thing it even simulates a menstrual cycle and pregnancy hormones. The team of researchers, from Northwestern University, the University of Illinois at Chicago and Draper Laboratory, published the results of their study in Nature Communications on Tuesday. The model, fabricated with human and mouse tissue and named Evatar, can be used to test drugs, with implications for women dealing with painful periods, infertility and other conditions. “If I had your stem cells and created a heart, liver, lung and an ovary, I could test 10 different drugs at 10 different doses on you and say, ‘Here’s the drug that will help your Alzheimer’s or Parkinson’s or diabetes,’ ” the lead investigator, Teresa K. Woodruff, said in a report about the research on the Northwestern University website. “It’s the ultimate personalized medicine, a model of your body for testing drugs. ” The   model has all the parts of the female reproductive system  —   ovaries, fallopian tubes, a uterus and a cervix. A liver, while not a reproductive organ, is included in the system because it metabolizes drugs. Mouse and human tissues from each of the organs are placed in separate cube compartments that are connected in a square frame in the laboratory. The model mimics what a human body does in real life. The cube wells are about a   deep, which allows the tissue samples to grow in multiple directions, and the organs communicate with hormonal signaling, as they do in a living body. Tubes and valves connecting the model organs are shot through with fluid that serves as the function of blood flow. The organ models communicate through the secretions, which include hormones, growth and immune factors, the report said. That means once the ovarian cycle is stimulated, the other tissues respond. The model undergoes a full   menstrual cycle, and it can even be induced to secrete pregnancy hormones, Dr. Woodruff said in a telephone interview on Wednesday. The ovary for Evatar uses mouse tissue, and other organs are fashioned from human tissue obtained from hysterectomy surgery patients for the other organs. But researchers hope the model can be personalized in the future by using stem cells from individual patients to mimic their personal reproductive systems. Dr. Jerome F. Strauss III, professor at the obstetrics and gynecology department at the Virginia Commonwealth University’s School of Medicine, said the research model was a significant step forward because it did not isolate the cells that are important to the function of the uterus. That is relevant because some hormones exert their influence on one type of cell by using another type as an intermediary. “They have added the complexity of ” he said. “They built that in, and that again is an engineering advance that has been done in other systems but never in this complex, multichannel system. ” “It is a significant step forward toward trying to develop a complex model of human reproduction,” he added. “The key here is to have an integrated picture of events occurring in multiple tissues. ” But he said a shortcoming was the use of ovarian tissue from a mouse, which has a reproductive system controlled by the brain, rather than a monkey, whose reproductive systems are more like humans. The scientists in the Evatar research hope it will help improve understanding into endometriosis, fibroids, cancer and infertility. “All of these diseases are hormonally driven, and we really don’t know how to treat them except for surgery,” Joanna E. Burdette, a researcher with the University of Illinois, said in the Northwestern University report on the research. “The systems are tremendous for the study of cancer, which often is studied as isolated cells rather than systemwide cells. This is going to change the way we study cancer,” she said. The research was supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health, which has made the recreation of a “body on a chip” a goal for drug testing. Dr. Woodruff said in the interview that the name for the model was derived from the word avatar, which is the digital representation of an individual, combined with the name Eve. “The mother of all ” Dr. Woodruff said.