A BBC presenter has signed off ‘Inshallah’ or ‘If Allah Wills It’ at the end of one of the organisation’s flagship, nationally televised debating programmes. [Nicky Campbell, the regular host of the   ‘The Big Questions’ was ending the programme discussing whether white,   boys discriminated against, and if the UK’s commitment to foreign aid be scrapped  —   when he dropped the line.  “We’re in Uxbridge next Sunday for a special asking ‘Are we facing the end of the world? ’” he began, closing the show: “So we’ll see you then, Inshallah. For now, goodbye. Have a great Sunday”. The move will no doubt irk some BBC viewers who still regard Sunday as the Sabbath in Christianity. Mr. Campbell’s line drew a smile from a   girl sitting in the audience behind him. Twitter users were unimpressed by the stunt: Bow down to Islam, BBC using ”inshallah” https:  .   —   Punished Fox (@PunishedNut) June 5, 2016,  @bbcbigquestions I know it was said in context of next show being about end of the world but I don’t want to hear inshallah on BBC #bluehand,  —   Jenna Sharpe (@JennaVAtion) June 5, 2016,  BBC ”The Big Questions” programme signed off with ’Inshallah” by host Nicky Campbell. Is he Muslim?  —   Cucked_UK ✘ (@Cucked_UK) June 5, 2016,  BBC Big Question just ended his program by saying see you next week ’INSHALLAH’ yet more Islamisation if our Broadcsting service ??  —   John (@dunstablian) June 5, 2016,  No doubt the organisation will receive complaints about the matter, though it may choose not to disclose how many in order to protect its reputation. And Mr. Campbell took to Twitter to defend himself: Because next weeks debate is about the end of the world!  —   and it is a nice expression. Calm down and shalom  https:  .   —   Nicky Campbell (@NickyAACampbell) June 5, 2016,  @jongaunt @Donna_R_E maybe I’ve converted :)  —   Nicky Campbell (@NickyAACampbell) June 5, 2016,    The incident comes just days after the BBC’s Head of Religion admitted that Islamic State is rooted in Islam: a common sense reading into the situation in the Middle East that has long been opposed and rejected by the political and media establishments in the West. Professor Aaqil Ahmed was speaking at an event at Huddersfield University exploring Britain’s   broadcaster’s insistence on calling the Islamic State terrorist organisation the “  Islamic State”. “You wouldn’t say ‘  Huddersfield University’” questions barrister Neil Addison during the event organised by the Centre for Religious Literacy in Journalism (CRLJ). “I hear so many people say ISIS has nothing to do with Islam  —   of course it has,” replied Mr. Ahmed. “They are not preaching Judaism. It might be wrong but what they are saying is an ideology based on some form of Islamic doctrine. They are Muslims. That is a fact and we have to get our head around some very uncomfortable things. “That is where the difficulty comes in for many journalists because the vast majority of Muslims won’t agree with them [ISIS]. ”