Bush administration Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence General Jerry Boykin said that Hillary Clinton posting the names of   intelligence agents on her private email server means that she must be indicted. [“What Hillary Clinton has done, I can tell you, it is  …     punishable by jail time. I think ultimately she’s going be indicted. She has to be. This cannot stand,” Boykin said on Breitbart News Saturday on   Patriot Channel 125 with host Matthew Boyle.   Breitbart News reported that Clinton exchanged numerous names marked by the federal government with “B3 CIA  ” redactions, which protect intelligence sources and methods in accordance with the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949. Clinton’s sharing of those names on her   private server could result in the FBI recommending indictment against Clinton for violating the Espionage Act. “There are two very important principles associated with national security and the intelligence community,” Boykin said. “One is the protection of sources and methods. And the other one is called ‘the need to know.’ You don’t have access to information that you don’t really need to know about and you are responsible for protecting the sources that are used for the collection of intelligence and the methods that are used. Those are fundamental. They are, in fact, in statute. ” Boykin said, “The lives that have been endangered  —   look, most people think that are sources are compromised by spies. No. Our sources can be compromised by the mishandling of classified information that gives  …    China and Russia and even North Korea access through cyber attacks to the names of the people that are helping us and the sources and methods that we’re using to get that intelligence. People can be killed as a result of that!” Boykin cited various spy stories in American history, including the case of CIA operative Aldrich Ames, who was jailed for espionage for turning on the U. S. and spying for the Soviets. “You look at the number of people that actually died as a result of that being compromised? This is really no different,” Boykin said. “It was not a spy case but it was still the mishandling of classified information that has exposed them and put them in great jeopardy. ”