Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton slammed Republican rival Donald Trump for what she called “sexually predatory” behavior during a fundraising trip to California, which included events in Los Angeles and San Francisco on Thursday, as well as a surprise visit to a San Francisco campaign office, the San Francisco Chronicle reports. [The former Secretary of State, whose husband’s own “sexually predatory” habits are a matter of public record, sought to tarnish Trump, praising Michelle Obama’s speech Thursday in New Hampshire, in which the current First Lady became emotional as she described her negative reaction to Trump’s   comments on a 2005 Access Hollywood video in which he joked about groping women.  (As numerous critics pointed out, the Obamas frequently heard similar comments from the   artists whom they have fêted at the White House, whose lyrics feature frequent mysogyny and sexual references.) “We cannot let this pessimism, this dark and divisive and dangerous vision of America, take hold in anybody’s heart,” said Hillary Clinton, according to the Chronicle. The Chronicle also reported the presence of a small number of   Trump protesters outside her fundraiser in San Francisco, including an immigrant from India who praised Trump and rejected the latest scandal: San Jose resident Dilip Kumar donned a “Make America Great Again”   and criticized Clinton. Originally from India, Kumar was naturalized as a U. S. citizen last year and plans to cast his   vote for Trump as a “role model for all American people. ” Regarding the sexual assault allegations against Trump  —   including a   account in People magazine  —   Kumar blamed the “dishonest media” for the “distraction. ” California will almost certainly go to Clinton on Nov. 8, but the state is a lucrative cash draw for both candidates as they raise money for their campaigns. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.