In an assault captured on video, Feras Jabro, a Donald Trump supporter wearing a “Make America Great Again” baseball cap, was harassed, chased, thrown to the ground and beaten by Black Lives Matter activists at a protest in El Cajon, California. [Fox News Channel correspondent Will Carr caught some of the beating on video:  #elcajon protesters chase Trump supporter while throwing bottles #FoxNews pic. twitter.   —   Will Carr (@WillCarrFNC) September 29, 2016,  A longer video, shot from the victim’s perspective, shows the man standing in the crowd then being hit from behind, running from an angry mob, and then being beaten on the ground simply for wearing his MAGA hat.  The vicious attack happened on the second night of protests in the San Diego suburb of El Cajon, where Black Lives Matter protesters are angered about the police shooting death of Alfred Olango, 38. El Cajon police say they shot and killed Olango after responding to a call from his sister that he was acting erratically. Olango refused to comply with police orders, then “assumed a shooting stance” with what appeared to be a gun, but later turned out to be a vape cigarette electronic device. Despite media reports describing the protests as “peaceful,” Wednesday night’s protest included not only the beating of a Trump supporter, but also direct confrontations with the police. Lots of protesters. Many many police. 3 helicopters. No one was playing around. #AlfredOlango #ElCajon pic. twitter.   —   (((Chrissy Love))) (@chrissylunar) September 29, 2016, A number of protesters were wearing the jersey of   49ers quarterback NFL player Colin Kaepernick, who has led protests against the national anthem in solidarity with Black Lives Matter. #BREAKING Protesters in Kapernick jerseys kneeling in front of CHP officers blocking  . @CW6SanDiego pic. twitter.   —   Erika Cervantes (@Erika3Cervantes) September 29, 2016, A longer version of the full video shot by the victim himself shows that prior to being chased and beaten, he was harassed and called a “white supremacist” by Black Lives Matter protesters specifically because of his hat. Police arrived to protect Jabro, and he explained to them that he had a First Amendment right to be at the community vigil wearing his hat without fear of violence. He later credited police with saving his life. Earlier this year,   demonstrators launched bloody attacks at Donald Trump supporters outside a in San Jose, California. Some of the events  —   and myths  —   that led to the founding of the Black Lives Matter movement will be explored in depth in an upcoming documentary film, The Bloody Road to Philadelphia. Follow Breitbart News investigative reporter and Citizen Journalism School founder Lee Stranahan on Twitter at @Stranahan.