A new student group at Stanford University which claims to be committed to improving faculty diversity is demanding that significant upcoming university appointments go to   and  transgender candidates. [The Who’s Teaching Us Coalition at Stanford, which published a list of demands on March 29th, is “calling on the university to implement [their] demands and thereby commit itself to the affirmation of marginalized communities. ”  They have demanded that the next appointments to the positions of provost and president of the university “break both the legacy of white leadership and cisgender male leadership. ” In order to meet this demand for diversity, the university would have to hire from an applicant pool representative of less than 0. 3% of the population, according to the Williams Institute. The extensive list of demands calls for the university to hire “at least 10 additional   ethnic studies professors,” while maintaining “a commitment to the retention of these professors” by “prioritizing underrepresented groups within the ethnic studies programs. ” It calls for the university to double the “quantities of faculty of color” in the departments outside the School of Humanities and Sciences. Inside the School of Humanities, the group has demanded that the curriculum must be modified to double the number of required courses on works by “people of color and   subject matter. ” WTU also demanded that all faculty be required to attend “comprehensive identity and cultural humility training” in order to be reinstated as faculty for the 2017 academic year. WTU has requested the instatement of an “Acts of Intolerance” system be put into place that would “provide a dedicated, responsive platform for reporting and tracking microaggressions from faculty. ” The activist group complains that the Asian American Studies program isn’t inclusive enough, requesting that the University should “equally prioritize the voices of South Asian, Southeast Asian, and Pacific Islander students and issues, as well as the     Studies program to equally prioritize the voices of diasporic Latinx students and issues. ” WTU also demanded that Stanford cut ties with Wells Fargo, claiming the bank “has perpetuated prison privatization and the disproportionate and unjust incarceration of Black, Brown, Indigenous, poor, and undocumented people. ” Although there has been no official response from the University, WTU has offered to receive a “statement of acceptance” of the aforementioned demands from administrators on April 8th in the Native American Cultural Center. Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or on Facebook. 