Republican presidential candidate Dr. Ben Carson is blasting Hillary Clinton after Breitbart News reported that she backed off from an effort to save pregnant women and children from a dangerous chemical once the Dow Chemical company joined the Clinton Global Initiative. [Breitbart News reported Saturday that Clinton, under pressure amid an environmental crisis in parts of New York State, spearheaded a letter to the EPA and also introduced a bill in 2007 called The TCE Reduction Act, which aimed to set new environmental standards for use of the industrial solvent Trichloroethylene (TCE).  But the bill never went anywhere. Two months after the bill was introduced, Dow Chemical, the nation’s largest TCE producer, joined the Clinton Global Initiative and ended up giving money to the Initiative and also a private advisory firm linked to Bill Clinton. “Dr. Carson sees this as yet another example of Washington run amok,” his campaign’s communications director A. Larry Ross told Breitbart News. “He is the one candidate whom voters see as unbought and unbossed and whose only special interest group is ‘We The People.’ Not once in this campaign has Dr. Carson compromised his values or principles for political expediency. That is exactly how he will serve in the Oval Office. ” Dow Chemical pledged a $30 million loan guarantee for a   program in India at the 2007 Clinton Global Initiative annual meeting. Dow chairman and CEO Andrew Liveris announced the loan while appearing at the Clinton Global Initiative meeting in New York City between September   2007, less than two months after Clinton introduced the TCE Reduction Act. Liveris hung around in   and became a trusted friend to Hillary and Bill. Dow contributed between $1 million and $5 million to the Clinton Global Initiative in 2014. Dow was a sponsor of the Clinton Global Initiative annual meeting in 2010 and 2011. Liveris was a featured attendee at the 2012 meeting. Liveris gave Bill Clinton use of a Dow company airplane in 2009 when the former president went to North Korea to successfully negotiate with Kim Jong Il for the release of two American journalists being held in the country. Liveris allegedly bought $300 worth of flowers for Hillary Clinton personally and charged it to Dow Chemical, according to a recent whistleblower lawsuit against the company.