Reacting to the coordinated deadly attack on police officers in Dallas during a Black Lives Matter protest, a national police spokesman condemned President Barack Obama as an appeaser, while a legal expert calls for a federal terrorism investigation. [William Johnson is a spokesman for the National Association of Police Organizations. Speaking to Fox News this morning, Johnson blamed Obama in part for this attack, declaring, “It’s a War on Cops, and the Obama administration is the Neville Chamberlain in this War. ”  Johnson went on to condemn what he calls Obama’s “appeasement” of the current   movement, saying that Obama’s policies and rhetoric, “Led directly to the climate that has made Dallas possible. ” That climate was decried during a national press conference this morning by Dallas Police Chief David Brown, who said of his fellow police officers, “We don’t feel much support most days. Let’s not make today ‘most days. ’” Johnson also went on to call upon Congress to supersede Barack Obama’s executive order that stripped defense equipment from police officers, to restore local police access to equipment that would better protect them from attacks of this nature. Obama issued Executive Order 13688 on January 16, 2015, barring local police from receiving various types of military surplus weapons, equipment, and supplies that had previously been available to them. Mark Smith is a leading national expert on Second Amendment and firearms issues. Later in the day, Smith voiced a similar criticism of the current president and his team, lamenting, “Unfortunately this administration, with Barack Obama, I think is in some ways helping to create this culture that is really   with this narrative that every police officer is racist, wants to bully people, wants to be a mean guy, and doesn’t want to just do their job. ” With liberal politicians already calling for gun control, Smith responded, “Last night showed why gun control doesn’t work. ” To the contrary, “The best way for an ordinary American to protect themselves is with a firearm, which allows little people to defend themselves against big people who want to kill them,” Smith added. Noting that Attorney General Loretta Lynch was about to speak, Smith said that instead of calling for gun control, she should announce that she will deploy agents from the U. S. Department of Justice’s   unit to investigate this atrocity in the same manner as the department would respond to an act of domestic terrorism. Ken Klukowski is senior legal editor for Breitbart News. Follow him @kenklukowski. 