Comedian George Lopez tweeted an image that shows Mexican drug kingpin Joaquín “El Chapo” Guzmán holding the severed head of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. [On Feb. 27, the   actor and comedian, who has been a vocal critic of Trump’s candidacy, tweeted a gruesome photo showing the infamous drug lord standing on a mound of human skulls and money carrying Trump’s head.  pic. twitter.   —   George Lopez (@georgelopez) February 28, 2016,  The image included Trump’s “Make America Great Again” slogan. After a Twitter user gave Lopez a taste of his own medicine in the form of a photoshopped image showing Trump as Arnold Schwarzenegger’s Terminator character carrying Lopez’s head, the comedian fired back with a vulgar response. @NoSurvivors42 fuck you,  —   George Lopez (@georgelopez) March 1, 2016,  “F —  k you,” wrote Lopez. Making no mention of his   Chapo tweet, Lopez shared the Terminator image on Super Tuesday, so as to present himself a victim of   by Trump’s supporters. Here’s the picture that’s warming the hearts of trump supporters nationwide  hilarious !  No need to call the FBI pic. twitter.   —   George Lopez (@georgelopez) March 1, 2016,  He then urged his followers to get out and vote for democratic socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders: Step it up. Today is #SuperTuesday. Go to bernie. to for info on rallies and events in your town and help us change America. #FeelTheBern,  —   George Lopez (@georgelopez) March 1, 2016,  Last July, Lopez led a chant of  “Donald Trump   …     F —  k that puto!” at a show in Phoenix, Arizona. The star of two cancelled sitcoms and an   talk show added: “This country is better with Latinos in it. ” A month later, Lopez included a joke about Trump’s hair in a tweet regarding El Chapo’s escape from a maximum security Mexican prison, and Minnesota dentist and big game hunter Walter Palmer: They’ll find El Chapo before they find the Dentist that killed  Cecil The Lion #FoolDugATunnel #HidingInTrumpsHair,  —   George Lopez (@georgelopez) August 3, 2015,  Palmer attracted international outrage after he shot and killed Cecil the lion while hunting in Zimbabwe last July.