EDINBURGH  —   Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s formidable first minister, knows how to play the long game. Now 46, she served loyally for a decade as deputy to Alex Salmond, both in the Scottish National Party and later in government, before becoming Scotland’s leader after the failure of the independence referendum of September 2014, when Mr. Salmond resigned. Now, after Britain as a whole voted to leave the European Union while Scotland voted overwhelmingly to remain, Ms. Sturgeon is patiently laying out a path for another independence referendum, using Prime Minister Theresa May as her foil. “The U. K. government has decided to remove Scotland not just from the European Union but from the single market as well, and that’s clearly against the will of the majority of people who live here,” she said Friday, as she sent a formal letter to Mrs. May, with the support of the Scottish Parliament, asking for another referendum. Mrs. May has already said the referendum cannot happen before Britain leaves the European Union, two years from now. Their meetings are “businesslike” and “cordial,” Ms. Sturgeon said in an interview on Friday in Bute House, Scotland’s No. 10 Downing Street. But hardly warm. Meeting Mrs. May in Glasgow on Monday, “we were very keen to try to strike a compromise that would have reconciled the fact that the U. K. voted to leave the E. U. and Scotland voted to remain,” Ms. Sturgeon said. “But there was not a willingness to compromise on her part. ” That was hardly unexpected, Ms. Sturgeon admitted. “It would have been naïve on my part” not to factor in Mrs. May’s refusal to countenance a referendum before the process of Britain’s departure from Europe, or Brexit, is finished, she said. But Ms. Sturgeon intends to press ahead, promising to tell her Parliament in April of plans to keep up momentum for what she calls “an act of democratic ” noting that Mrs. May cited the same principle to explain Britain’s vote to leave the European Union. “When the time is right,” when the Brexit negotiations produce greater clarity about the future, “and we’re able to set out in light of changed circumstances what independence would mean for Scotland, then Scotland gets to take that informed choice before it’s too late,” she said. It will be for those living in Scotland to decide, she insisted, not the Parliament in London. Since Scots voted down independence, 55 percent to 45 percent, the Scottish National Party has grown enormously with many Scots getting politicized by the bitter campaign. With some 25, 000 members in September 2014, her party now has more than 125, 000, Ms. Sturgeon said. A second referendum would probably put the independence camp in a better position than three years ago, when young people voted heavily to leave, and a British exit from the European Union seemed highly unlikely. But while Scots voted to remain in the European Union last June by 62 percent to 38 percent, that has not translated easily into support for independence, with about a third of those favoring independence also voting for a British exit. “Right now there’s too much uncertainty, not just about Scotland but about Brexit,” said Ian Ramage, who returned to Edinburgh a decade ago after many years living abroad. “Brexit to me is like going back in time, but nobody’s certain about anything just now. ” Chris Deerin, a Scottish political analyst, said that Ms. Sturgeon “is both stuck and in charge. ” She would not want another referendum so soon in any case, he said, and can now blame Mrs. May and Westminster, always a popular tactic here. But for Ms. Sturgeon, it would be important to try to have the vote before the next Scottish parliamentary elections in 2021, when the   S. N. P. might lose more seats, in the normal cycle of politics. Ms. Sturgeon is essentially using the same “take back control” argument that leave supporters used in the European Union referendum, only one of the ironies involved, as Mrs. May works to leave one union while maintaining another  —   the United Kingdom. And while Scotland wants to preserve free trade with the European Union, it must also keep free trade with the rest of Britain too, which in 2015 represented 63 percent of Scotland’s trade, compared with 16 percent with the rest of the European Union. But trade with the bloc, Ms. Sturgeon pointed out, still represents more than 40 percent of Scotland’s “international trade. ” The Scottish nationalists are winning the emotional argument, Mr. Deerin said, “but the biggest hurdle the S. N. P. has to climb now is financial. ” A serious discussion of how an independent Scotland would finance itself will be crucial to winning a second referendum, he said. Since 2014, Scotland’s oil and gas revenues have plunged precipitously, from some 9. 6 billion pounds in the   fiscal year to just 60 million pounds in  . And it may shrink further given the high costs of extraction while the price of oil is low. Scotland’s rate of growth is about a third of Britain’s, at less than 1 percent a year, and its budget deficit is twice that of Britain’s. Ms. Sturgeon acknowledges the problems, saying that she has commissioned Andrew Wilson, an economist and former S. N. P. legislator, to do a study of how Scotland can manage its finances. “We have to deal with the deficit whether we’re an independent country or not, and the question is whether we have greater ability to deal with it as an independent country, and I believe we do,” she said. But she would like to cut the deficit “in a way compatible with our values as a country, because what we’re finding now is that the deficit is being reduced consistent with the values of a Conservative government in Westminster that is leading to austerity. ” Mr. Wilson’s study is just another example of how Ms. Sturgeon is proceeding to try to answer the questions raised in the last referendum and win a second one, which will probably determine her own political fate. Similarly, she said clearly that an independent Scotland would want to join the European Union but not use the euro, arguing that Sweden managed to join the bloc while opting out of the single currency. What money Scotland would use remains unclear, a major issue in the last referendum campaign after Britain said that an independent Scotland could not use the pound. Nor would she be drawn on whether an independent Scotland could achieve its aims by joining the economic grouping shared by Norway, which has access to the bloc’s single market in return for budget contributions and freedom of movement and labor of European Union citizens, but is short of membership. Ms. Sturgeon spoke before leaving for a week in New York and California, to promote Scottish business, investment and culture. “The links between Scotland and America are so deep and multifaceted, but it’s important to work at strengthening them,” she said. And that includes someone’s mother? She laughed at the clear reference to President Trump, who speaks proudly of his Scottish mother. “Look, lots of people are very proud of Scottish connections, so I’m delighted that people want to highlight them,” she said, laughing again. “And I don’t want to be stopped at the airport going in. ”