A federal indictment has been unsealed in connection with the attempted assassination of Texas District Court Judge Julie Kocurek in November 2015. [Chimene Onyeri, 28, Marcellus Burgin, 26, and Rasul Scott, 24 were all named in the indictment unsealed in Austin, Texas, according to information obtained by Breitbart Texas from the Western District of Texas on Friday. The   indictment, attached below, alleges the three men were engaged in a criminal conspiracy relating to stolen credit cards and other financial information.  Onyeri is accused of actually shooting Judge Kocurek. His two accomplices acted as lookouts during the shooting. According to the statement from DOJ spokesman Daryl Fields, Onyeri,    Marcellus Antoine Burgin of Cypress, TX and    Rasul Kareem Scott of Marrera, LA, were charged with one count of conspiracy to participate in an enterprise engaged in a pattern of racketeering activity one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and, one count of aggravated identity theft. Onyeri is also charged with conspiracy to commit mail fraud an additional count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and, six additional counts of aggravated identity theft. When the defendants became aware of possibly being sent to prison for their alleged criminal enterprise, they attempted to murder Judge Kocurek. Onyeri allegedly approached the judge in her car on the night of November 6, 2015. “This   investigation uncovered a diabolical scheme that went from   fraud to an attempt on the life of a State judicial officer,” United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr. said in the written statement. “I commend the extraordinary efforts of Assistant U. S. Attorney Gregg N. Sofer, Special Assistant U. S. Attorney Dayna Blazey, and the agents of the Internal Revenue   Investigation, Federal Bureau of Investigation, U. S. Postal Inspection Service, Austin Police Department and the U. S. Secret Service who brought this case to indictment. ” “A violent attack against a judge doesn’t just threaten our justice system it’s an assault to the bedrock of our democracy which upholds the laws protecting our freedom. This case should send a strong message to those who threaten or harm members of our judiciary the FBI will work day and night, with our law enforcement partners, to ensure they are held accountable for their actions,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs. The defendants face up to life in prison for the RICO conspiracy charges and up to 20 years in prison for the conspiracy to commit mail or wire fraud. Travis County District Attorney Rosemary Lehmberg said, “In coordination with federal authorities, and as a result of the overlapping issues presented in these prosecutions, Dayna Blazey, a Travis County Assistant District Attorney, has been   as a Special Assistant United States Attorney in order to assist with the federal prosecution of this important case. This office will continue to work with federal authorities until all prosecutions are concluded. ” Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX. Onyeri Etal Indictment, 