  claims that original copies of the album featuring “Cop Killer” are so rare, even he doesn’t have one. “The only way you can get it now is on YouTube,” he said. “They’re on Amazon, and they’re pretty expensive, too. ” (Interested collectors would be advised to check out eBay.) Nearly 25 years ago,   (the   star born Tracy Marrow) and Body Count put out that deliberately      response to police brutality, prompting outrage from President George H. W. Bush and police groups everywhere. The heat became too much for even an outspoken West Coast   pioneer  —   “the vice president was on my bumper,” he said  —   and he agreed to pull the song from new copies of the album. Body Count, which releases its sixth album, “Bloodlust,” on Friday, formed when  ’s Crenshaw High School friend Ernie C needed an outlet to play impossibly fast guitar. Then well known for vivid     songs like “Colors” and “Lethal Weapon,”   introduced the band to crowds on the 1991 Lollapalooza tour. Now 59, he has gone on to portray one of television’s   police characters, Detective Fin Tutuola of “Law  Order: Special Victims Unit,” a point that this “Cop Killer” singer notes with a rumbling laugh. On its first album since the 2014 LP “Manslaughter,” Body Count remains heavy and uncompromising, threatening   violence on “The Ski Mask Way” and pausing for political commentary on “No Lives Matter. ” By phone from his Edgewater, N. J. home, where his    daughter was cooing in the background,   cheerfully reeled off expletives abundantly enough to complicate the editing of these excerpts from the conversation.  Why was it important to include a discussion and defense of Black Lives Matter on the album?  Because I just felt people were really confused. “You think black people, when they say Black Lives Matter, that’s a statement of power. That’s a statement of despair. ” It’s like, come on, man, stop killing us. One of my jobs in music is to try to explain stuff  —   “Ice, break it down. ” I tried to break it down in a way that you understood: We as black people are just trying to be treated as human beings, and our lives are valuable. Body Count has evolved from shocking to philosophical. On this album, you say, “The ability to kill is innate as our ability to love. ” Why? I’m an older guy now, and I see things. Your perspective is different. The early Body Count, I was much more angry, but I didn’t know why. Now I’m trying to explain it. One guy told me the other day: “Ice, you’re very lucky, because you’ve been able to see it from the poor man and the   man, and that’s a view very few people get to see. ” Also, let’s be real, when I came out, there was no internet. You could shock people easy. There was no Eminem. Last September, you said of Donald J. Trump, then a presidential candidate: “I’m kinda scared of that dude. ” Still feel that way? I think everybody does. He’s a little too hotheaded to have that much power. When you’re basically running the biggest army, [for] the most powerful country on earth, you don’t have to be all excited and amped you can’t get aggravated like that. Obama was catching Osama bin Laden [while he was] out to dinner, giving people daps.  . That’s how presidents react. You don’t get at mad at Nordstrom. Like, come on, son. N. W. A made “Straight Outta Compton,” but you did West Coast gangster rap first. Do you ever think, “Where’s my biopic?” Nah, nah, nah, nah, absolutely not. People were asking, “Was I out first? ,” and [Ice] Cube and them will tell you. Everybody knows. We used to tour together. I’m just glad the homies got their stories told. I have no desire to do a biopic. What if you do a biopic, and nobody comes to see it? Dear God. I’m good. That’s too risky for me. How quickly did you say yes to the insurance commercial in which you are sitting with adorable kids at a lemonade stand? Once I read it, I thought it was funny. I always try to let people know that the guy on the record is me, but also the guy sitting at home with his kid is me, the guy on “SVU. ” I’m all those people. I’m not a   person. People look at me like, “Oh, wow, I heard your album, I figure you live in a house full of meat hooks, with people hanging. ” No, no, no, no, no. The only bad part about it is, I walk around now, people yell, “Hey, lemonade!”