WASHINGTON, D. C.  —   Donald Trump called for the roughly 1, 500 people who gathered at the Values Voter Summit to help unite the divided nation.  “You have to get out and vote!” Trump told the ballroom filled with faith motivated voters, suggesting they didn’t get out and vote in the 2012 presidential election. “If you do, we’re going to win by a lot. ” He thanked evangelicals for supporting him during the GOP primary. “It will be our faith in God and his teachings, in each other, that will lead us back to unity,” the Republican nominee stated while speaking at the Omni Shoreham Hotel. “It’s that spirit of giving that we will need  …    to rebuild this country. ” . @realDonaldTrump praises his support from evangelicals at #VVS2016 @BreitbartNews pic. twitter.   —   Alex Swoyer (@ASwoyer) September 9, 2016,  The New Yorker said that the “media culture” in this country “often mocks and demeans people of faith. ” “All the time, I hear from concerned parents how much harder it is for Christian families to raise their children in today’s media environment. Your values of love, charity and faith built this nation. So how can it be that our media treats people of faith so poorly?” Trump questioned, adding, “One of the reasons is that our politicians have abandoned you. ” “So let me state this up front: in a Trump Administration, our Christian heritage will be cherished, protected and defended  —   and that includes your religious liberty,” he vowed. Academy Award winning actor Jon Voight introduced Trump at the summit, slamming his rival Hillary Clinton. “I feel there is a dark cloud over the country now and we are all witness to Hillary Clinton’s lies and corruption,” Voight stated before Trump joined him on stage. “We are witness to President Obama covering every false move that she makes and making them appear right. ” Jon Voight introduces @realDonaldTrump at #VVS2016 ”How can anyone doubt his sincerity?” @BreitbartNews pic. twitter.   —   Alex Swoyer (@ASwoyer) September 9, 2016,  “My heart aches watching Donald Trump day after day  …    how can anyone doubt his sincerity?” Voight questioned, adding that if Trump becomes president the dark cloud that is hovering over the country will be lifted.