Friday on CNN’s “The Lead,” CNN investigative correspondent Drew Griffin highlight some of the donations the Clinton Foundation had accepted from foreign governments prior to presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s tenure as secretary of state.  Host Jake Tapper highlighted an Associated Press story in which there were discrepancies in Clinton’s calendar while secretary of state and noted the AP story’s timing coincides with questions raised by presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump about the aforementioned donations. Transcript as follows: GRIFFIN: There is no question the Clinton Foundation has received tens of millions of dollars from foreign governments. That includes Saudi Arabia, which gave $14. 5 million. The foundation says none of that came while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state. But you also have Kuwait, donating between $5 and $10 million. Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, all donating between $1 and $5 million over the years. Even the embassy of Algeria donated $500, 000. Is there a common thread? All of course are Middle Eastern countries with poor human rights records and poor records when it comes to women’s rights. And even with private companies there is smoke. Monsanto is a U. S. global food giant and is trying to increase its worldwide business in the biotech food industry. It donated between $1 and $5 million to the Clinton Foundation. And while she was secretary of state, Secretary Clinton made general statements supporting biotech foods as the company was asking for government help to open up new markets. For her, critics, it’s enough to cry foul. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) TRUMP: Maybe the motivation lies among the 1, 000 foreign donations Hillary failed to disclose while at the State Department. (END VIDEOTAPE) GRIFFIN: There’s no evidence that is accurate. What we have learned is that the foundation said it did fail to disclose a funding source while Mrs. Clinton was at the State Department. That donation, the $500, 000 from the government of Algeria. The foundation called the lack of disclosure an error but again said there was no connection between the donations and the policies of the Clinton’s State Department. Earlier this year, Hillary Clinton told Jake Tapper the foundation is an open book. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CLINTON: We have disclosed everything. You can see what we do, we’ve put out reports, we can find you millions of people who feel that their lives have been improved because of the work. (END VIDEOTAPE) GRIFFIN: To avoid potential conflicts, the Clinton foundation did sign an agreement with the Obama administration before Hillary Clinton was sworn in as secretary of state. That agreement banned Bill Clinton from personally soliciting donations and also banned donations from any government that hadn’t been approved by an ethics committee at State. Follow Breitbart. tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideo