Right wing personality Katie Hopkins has joined Breitbart London’s Editor in Chief Raheem Kassam in demanding a more robust response to terrorism than “teddy bears and candles”. [Following the terrorist attacks on Brussels in March, which saw five Islamic terrorists kill 32 people and injure more than 300 others, Kassam called on the West to stop responding to terror with hashtags and profile pictures, and instead to intervene.  “Teddy bears, tears, candles, cartoons, murals, mosaics, flowers, flags, projections, hashtags, balloons, wreaths, lights, vigils, scarves, and more. These are the best solutions the Western world seems to come up with every few months when we are slammed by another Islamist terrorist attack. We are our own sickness,” Kassam wrote. “Watching someone getting raped, and tweeting your solidarity with them is not enough. Human nature and goodness calls upon us to intervene. To assist. To free someone from their torture, and to save them from their demise. “It is why arms sales to individuals has shot up since the migrant crisis in Europe. [  …    ] Some people refuse to take being wiped out laying down. How quaint. ” Enough   hashtags and vigils in a public square. https:  .  @LBC,  —   Katie Hopkins (@KTHopkins) July 25, 2016,  Now, following a wave of terror attacks in Germany and France, Hopkins said she too had had enough of living in a Europe “which keeps telling me we stand shoulder to shoulder with France, shoulder to shoulder with Brussels, shoulder to shoulder with Germany. “How many shoulders have we got?” she asked. “But a Europe that doesn’t seem to be doing very much about it, and a Europe where actually I feel like we’re sitting ducks. “We’re just waiting for wherever the next axe murderer,   nutter,   terrorist is going to pop up  —   and then we’re going to stand shoulder to shoulder with them. “Quite frankly if you light up another building with the colours of your flag I am not particularly interested because that is not a solution to terror. Telling me that you’re mourning, telling me you’re going to stand shoulder to shoulder means nothing. ”