The President of DePaul University, Rev. Dennis H. Holtschneider, has apologized to the College Republicans following the tumultuous disruption of their event with Breitbart Tech editor Milo Yiannopoulos yesterday. [In an email to students, President Holtschneider emphasized that he disagreed with many of Yiannopoulos’ views, but said he was “ashamed for DePaul University when I saw a student rip the microphone from the hands of the conference moderator and wave it in the face of our speaker. ”  “Those who interrupted the speech were wrong to do so” wrote Holtschneider. “Universities welcome speakers, give their ideas a respectful hearing, and then respond with additional speech countering the ideas. ” “On behalf of the university, I apologize to the DePaul College Republicans. They deserved an opportunity to hear their speaker uninterrupted, and were denied it. ” However, Holtschneider did not apologize to the speaker himself, and spent a good chunk of his “apology” slamming Yiannopoulos’ political positions, including his denial of the “gender wage gap. ” He also criticized the Breitbart Tech editor’s provocative style, calling it “unworthy of university discourse. ” He also thanked Chicago police and the security contractors present at the event, as well as campus staff, despite news that administrators instructed the Chicago police not to remove the protesters.  Nevertheless, he added that university staff would be “reflecting on these events and what might be learned for the future. ” He did not make any indication as to whether the College Republicans or Breitbart News would be reimbursed for the cost of security, a key demand made by both parties. The President’s full email can be read below: Dear Members of the DePaul University Community, I am writing from France, where Fr. Udovic and I are leading a mission trip to introduce our trustees to the life and legacy of St. Vincent de Paul. Because today is a free day, a number of us are spending the day in Normandy, touring the museum, walking the famous beaches of the   landings and standing silent before the rows and rows of graves honoring the men and women who gave their lives so others might live in freedom. I tell you this because I awoke this morning to the reports and online videos of yesterday’s speech by Milo Yiannopoulos and the accompanying protest. I was sorry to see it. Mr. Yiannopoulos and I share very few opinions. He argues that there is no wage gap for women, a difficult position to maintain in light of government data. As a gay man, he has claimed that sexual preference is entirely a choice, something few if any LGTBQ individuals would claim as their own experience. He claims that white men have fewer privileges than women or people of color, whom he believes are unfairly privileged in modern society  —   a statement that is immediately suspect when white men continue to occupy the vast majority of top positions in nearly every major industry. Generally, I do not respond to speakers of Mr. Yiannopoulos’ ilk, as I believe they are more entertainers and   provocateurs than the public intellectuals they purport to be. Their shtick is to shock and incite a strong emotional response they can then use to discredit the moral high ground claimed by their opponents. This is unworthy of university discourse, but not unfamiliar across American higher education. There will always be speakers who exploit the differences within our human community to their own benefit, blissfully unconcerned with the damage they leave behind. Now that our speaker has moved on to UC Santa Barbara and UCLA, we at DePaul have some reflecting and sorting out to do. Student Affairs will be inviting the organizers of both the event and the protest  —   as well as any others who wish  —   to meet with them for this purpose. I’ve asked them to reflect on how future events should be staffed so that they proceed without interruption how protests are to be more effectively assisted and enabled and how the underlying differences around race, gender and orientation that were made evident in yesterday’s events can be explored in depth in the coming academic year. As this proceeds, I wish to make a few matters crystal clear. Here in Normandy, I expected to be moved by the generosity of those who gave their lives on the beaches early on June 6, 1944. I did not expect, however, to be shocked when I realized that most of the soldiers were the same ages as our students today. The rows on rows of white crosses in the American cemetery speak to the selflessness of the human spirit at early adulthood to lay down their lives for a better world. I realize that many of yesterday’s protesters hold similarly noble goals for a more inclusive world for those traditionally held aside by our society. I realize also that these young soldiers died for all the freedoms enshrined in our Bill of Rights, including freedom of speech and assembly. We honor their sacrifice best if we, too, remember and honor all the rights of human freedom, even as we fight for more freedom and justice for all. God bless you. Rev. Dennis H. Holtschneider, C. M. President, You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook, and download Milo Alert! for Android to be kept up to date on his latest articles.