On Friday’s Breitbart News Daily, SiriusXM host Alex Marlow asked Donald Trump for his pitch to Republican and conservative voters who “might be holding out and ensuring a Clinton White House. ”[“Well, Alex, one of the things is the United States Supreme Court,” Trump replied. “We’re going to pick justices in the mold of Justice Scalia: conservative,  . We’re going to pick Second Amendment people, people that respect the Second Amendment. ”  “We’ve put out a list, all vetted by Federalist, the Federalist Society, highly recommended by them,” he said. “We have a list of twenty judges, and we’re putting them out, and the list has been unbelievably   because I wanted to make sure they understood that, you know, we’re putting out a very important list. Not that I’d pick some liberal judge after they chose me. ”  “So I actually put out a list from which I will only pick. In other words, I will only pick one of these people given to us by the Federalist Society, and also Heritage, run by a great guy, Jim [DeMint],” Trump promised. “So we have a list of great judges, and if for no other reason, that should be a reason, because it doesn’t get talked about enough. ” Marlow proposed that resistance to Clinton’s   agenda was something else for reluctant conservative voters to consider.  Trump agreed and said the   speech in which Clinton openly stated her desire for hemispheric open borders and free trade was “incredible. ” “I mention it every single speech,” he said. “She wants open borders, totally free trade. So you lose your businesses, and you lose your country if you do that. Absolutely. ” Trump also made a commitment to repeal Obamacare, which he called a “disaster. ” “We’ve got to repeal or replace it. And we can do that with something so good,” he said. “Taxes, we talk about taxes are way too high. She’s giving a tax increase, we’re giving a tax decrease,” he continued. “We talk about regulations. We talk about the depleted military and how we’re going to take care of the vets. We’re gonna really take care of our vets for the first time, maybe ever. And she can’t do that. She thinks the system is okay the way it is. So she’s got some really bad things. Saving our Second Amendment, which is so important it’s under siege. ”  Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 