TEL AVIV  —   With the allegations of   against Steve Bannon quickly collapsing, the   Jewish Forward newspaper has trotted out a creative new smear: Bannon is an   who loves the Jewish state. [The Forward is a progressive Jewish newspaper that brandishes its democratic socialist roots.  The Forward on Tuesday featured an unhinged piece titled, “How Steve Bannon and Breitbart News Can Be    —   and   at the Same Time. ” The newspaper was attempting to perpetuate   claims against Bannon in light of evidence that he a staunch supporter of Israel and the Jewish people. Breitbart’s former executive chairman was named by   Donald Trump earlier this week as the chief strategist to the new White House administration. To keep the smear going, the Forward contended: “Yet though it would seem impossible to hate Jews but love the Jewish state, these two viewpoints are not as contradictory as they appear. ” The newspaper’s   evidence for this seemingly contradictory phenomenon consisted largely of quoting two professors who claim without offering any actual proof that   can support the Jewish state. The Forward related: There is actually “little correlation” between   and   according to Steven M. Cohen, a sociologist at the Hebrew Union   Institute of Religion. To be sure,   is found among the   left. But it is also found among the Zionist right. “Many people who dislike Jews like Israel and many people who are critical toward Israel are affectionate toward Jews,” said Cohen.   …     This duality is a central component of “Trumpism,” said Yael Sternhell, a Tel Aviv University professor of history and American studies. Though Trump has   on the Middle East, he has professed an   view of Israel that would seem to outflank even Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He also has a Jewish    and a daughter who converted to Judaism. At the same time, many of Trump’s followers spout  . “As long as Jews are in Israel fighting the ‘good fight’ with the Arab world as a bastion of American ideals and values in the Middle East, then they are very useful and admirable allies,” said Sternhell. “Once they are home demanding a multicultural democracy, demanding that the country accommodate their religion, their belief and their custom, that is a different story. ” The Forward also offered as “evidence” baseless claims that Breitbart is a place where “  and Zionism go hand in hand,” and that “  attitudes abound in Poland, for example, even as Poland has a strong diplomatic relationship with Israel. ” While the Forward is quick with   charges against Bannon, the newspaper strongly supported the foreign policies of Barack Obama, who pushed the Iran nuclear deal labeled by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as a threat to Israel’s very survival. The Obama administration also has repeatedly singled out for criticism Jewish construction in the West Bank and eastern sections of Jerusalem, and supported the   Muslim Brotherhood regime while it was in power in Egypt from June 2012 to July 2013. The Forward has featured numerous articles alleging Trump’s presidential campaign has evidenced racist, white supremacist, and   undertones. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.