After the tragic death of a toddler, who was pulled into the water by an alligator at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida, a prominent social media feminist took to the internet to blame the incident on “white entitlement. ”[  A prominent feminist who goes by “Brienne of Snarth” on social media announced her apathy towards the toddler who tragically died at the hands of a Floridian alligator on June 14. “Brienne” claimed that she wasn’t upset by the tragic incident because of her frustration with “white men’s entitlement. ” Although she quickly deleted the tweet and privatized her social media accounts, screenshots of the tweet has circulated on social media. Although Brienne’s remark was overwhelmingly criticized, some Twitter users defended her. Twitter user @trillburne, who has a sizable audience of nearly 8, 000 followers, claimed that Brienne’s only “crime was being specific. ” almost feel bad for Brienne of Snarth. shes far from the 1st woke rich white idiot to wish death on the unwoke. her crime was being specific,  —   The Discourse Lover (@Trillburne) June 16, 2016,  Surprisingly, Brienne wasn’t the only person to make the toddler’s tragic death about race. She deleted it, but the Internet never forgets. pic. twitter.   —   Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) June 15, 2016,  an alligator slaughtering a toddler in front of his father is actually sad, in spite of the child being white, this is my Hot As Hell Take,  —   madeleine (@madeleinedoux) June 16, 2016,  The mistreatment of the Black parents in the zoo incident and the sympathy for the white parents in the alligator incident is about race.  —   PrestonMitchum (@PrestonMitchum) June 17, 2016,  black kid falls in gorilla pit: ”where were the parents? ???”white kid drowned by an alligator: ”where were the signs? ??”  —   Amanda Richards (@amandakater) June 16, 2016,  Tom Ciccotta writes about Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity for Breitbart. You can follow him on Twitter @tciccotta or on Facebook. You can email him at tciccotta@breitbart. com