On January 4, President Obama will meet with Attorney General Loretta Lynch to finalize the executive gun controls expected to be announced next week. [Politico previously reported that the two key components of the executive orders will be “[tightening] the definition of what it means to be involved in gun sales” and the addition of new reporting requirements for licensed gun dealers.  The changes in language —  as it relates to being “involved in gun sales” —  will be used to broaden the occasions on which background checks are required, thereby further narrowing the remaining avenues by which Americans may buy a gun without government permission. This   could result in requiring private gun sellers to obtain a Federal Firearms License (FFL) and perform background checks on every sale, even if they only sell guns as a hobby occasionally. According to The Washington Post, “The idea of requiring informal gun dealers to obtain a license from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and perform background checks on potential buyers first came up two years ago, but was shelved over legal concerns. ” Obama now believes his attorneys have found a way that requirements for licensure can survive legal scrutiny. During his first weekly radio address of 2016 Obama said: A few months ago, I directed my team at the White House to look into any new actions I can take to help reduce gun violence. And on Monday, I’ll meet with our Attorney General, Loretta Lynch, to discuss our options. Because I get too many letters from parents, and teachers, and kids, to sit around and do nothing. I get letters from responsible gun owners who grieve with us every time these tragedies happen who share my belief that the Second Amendment guarantees a right to bear arms and who share my belief we can protect that right while keeping an irresponsible, dangerous few from inflicting harm on a massive scale. None of the actions in the upcoming executive gun control would have prevented the heinous April 2007 shooting at Virginia Tech, the November 2009 attack on Fort Hood, or the December 2012 attack on Sandy Hook Elementary School. Nor would the two have prevented the high profile shootings at the Aurora movie theater, the DC Navy Yard, the Lafayette Grand Theatre, Umpqua Community College, Colorado Springs on Halloween, or the San Bernardino terror attack. But the executive controls will further infringe upon   citizens’ ability to exercise Second Amendment rights. Follow AWR Hawkins on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.