Welcome to the Breitbart News Presidential Debate   Livewire. [As Republican and Democratic nominees Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton   at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, Sunday evening for their second presidential debate, Breitbart will provide live   of their debate.  Stay with us throughout the evening as we update this livewire to correct the record.  : TRUE,  The actual trade deficit in goods for 2015 was $763 billion, so Trump’s statement is essentially correct. The overall trade deficit, including both goods and services, was lower at $500 billion. Trump has generally focused more on the deficit in goods, and the difficulty it represents for America’s manufacturing sector.   : MOSTLY TRUE,  “When I look at the Iran deal and how bad a deal it is for us, it’s a   transaction where we’re giving back $150 billion to a terrorist state  —   really, the number one terrorist state,” Trump told the audience, responding to a question from the audience. “We’ve made them a strong country from, really, a very weak country just three years ago. ” Trump has made this claim regarding the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPoA) as the Iran nuclear deal is officially known, and received some criticism for it.   websites such as Politifact have argued that Trump’s claim is false because “the money is already Iran’s to begin with,” but not denied that this amount of money would return to the control of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei thanks to the deal. The New York Times has argued that the $150 billion estimate is a fabrication by “congressional Republicans” far from the real amount of money Iran would once again control. As Algemeiner, citing Omri Ceren of the Israel Project, notes, the   estimate of the money the deal would return to Iranian control came from President Barack Obama, not Republicans. President Obama said in an interview that Iran “has $150 billion parked outside the country,” arguing that not all of its funds under sanctions will be unfrozen immediately because “unwinding the existing restraints  …     takes a certain amount of time. ” This money does not include a separate $1. 7 billion payment to the government of Iran, allegedly to atone for an arms sales agreement that never went through after the 1979 Islamic revolution. The U. S. government handed over that money the same day that Iran released several American citizens imprisoned on dubious charges. Both President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry, who played a major role in brokering the Iran nuclear deal, have admitted that the Iranian regime will likely use the money to fund terrorism, particularly activity by the Shiite terrorist organization Hezbollah.  : TRUE,  Bill Clinton was indeed impeached for lying under oath to a grand jury and obstructing justice, although he was not removed from office. After impeachment, Bill Clinton was held in contempt of court by federal Judge Susan Webber Wright, in what the New York Times described as a “scathing” ruling. Wright said Clinton testified falsely in his deposition about not having sex with Monica Lewinsky, and that his actions “subverted the rule of law and violated Ms. Jones’s right to information relevant to her case. ” “The court takes no pleasure whatsoever in holding this nation’s President in contempt of court,” Wright wrote. However, she added, “the record demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that the President responded to plaintiffs’ questions by giving false, misleading and evasive answers that were designed to obstruct the judicial process. ” Clinton’s law license in Arkansas was suspended for five years, and he paid a $25, 000 fine. The Supreme Court also barred Clinton from practicing law before the nation’s highest court. Trump made a reference to an $850, 000 fine Bill Clinton paid to Paula Jones. This was, in fact, an    settlement Clinton reached with Jones, not a fine leveled by the court.  The purpose of reaching an    settlement is to avoid an unpleasant trial that could very well end with even worse consequences, so Trump is basically correct that Clinton’s conduct cost him $850, 000, and he didn’t want to pay it  —   it most certainly was not a charitable contribution!  —   but it technically wasn’t a “fine. ”  : MOSTLY FALSE.  Just two days ago, Trump apologized publicly for comments he made on a video recorded 2005 in which he joked about groping women.  It is true that Trump tends to avoid apologizing, and that he did not apologize in some of the cases that Clinton mentioned.  He did not apologize for the Birther controversy, for example  —   though he has maintained that there is no need to do so, because he provoked President Barack Obama into finally producing his   birth certificate. Occasionally, Trump offers a sarcastic apology  —   as he did when he “apologized” to Pocahontas for using her name to ridicule Sen. Elizabeth Warren ( ) who allegedly faked Native American heritage to obtain a professorship at Harvard Law School.  And in August, he expressed “regret” for some of the things he had said that had offended people (including, presumably, the Khizr Khan episode, which Clinton mentioned). He avoided saying the word “apologize. ” Still, the claim that Trump “never” apologizes is incorrect. “One of them is a wonderful woman, [who] at 12 years old was raped. At twelve. Her client  —   she represented  —   got him off, laughing on two separate occasions, laughing at the girl that was raped. Kathy Shelton, that young woman, is here with us tonight. So, don’t tell me about words,” Trump said.     : TRUE, In the   journalist Roy Reed interviewed Hillary Clinton, and a tape of that interview has been uploaded to YouTube and is available in the Special Collections Department of the University of Arkansas libraries.   “He took a lie detector test! I had him take a polygraph, which he passed, which forever destroyed my faith in polygraphs,” Clinton said about her client Thomas Alfred Taylor, who raped Shelton in 1975, laughing.  Clinton also laughed in the video about saving the child rapist from a “miscarriage of justice. ” He served one year in county jail, with two months shaved off his sentence for the time he already served. Shelton’s injuries were so traumatic, she could never have children.  WATCH:  Clinton also argued in court that the    rape victim sought out older men.  Shelton came forward after 40 years of silence, as reported by the Daily Mail:  A child rape victim says she cannot forgive Hillary Clinton for defending her rapist in court 40 years ago, saying the Democratic presidential candidate attacked her credibility despite knowing that her assailant was guilty  —   and later laughed about it in a taped interview. Kathy Shelton was just 12 years old when a    drifter raped her on the side of a desolate Arkansas road in 1975. Now, four decades later, she has agreed to be named and pictured for the first time in this Daily Mail Online exclusive because she is furious that her rapist’s defense attorney  —   Hillary Clinton  —   has been portraying herself as a lifelong advocate of women and girls on the campaign trail. ‘It’s put a lot of anger back in me,’ said Shelton, now 54, in an exclusive interview at her Springdale, Arkansas, home in August. ‘Every time I see [Clinton] on TV I just want to reach in there and grab her, but I can’t do that.’ In 1975, Clinton served as the defense lawyer for Thomas Alfred Taylor, a    factory worker accused of raping Shelton after luring her to his car. Taylor pleaded down to ‘unlawful fondling of a minor’ and served less than a year in prison after Clinton was able to block the admission of forensic evidence that linked her client to the crime. Shelton also tweeted about her suffering at Hillary’s hands. I don’t care if Trump said gross things. I care that Hillary Clinton lied, terrorized,  mocked me, defending my rapist.  —   Kathy Shelton (@KathyShelton_) October 9, 2016,  Hillary Clinton an advocate for women  children? Not even close..  She terrorized me during my rape case  later laughed about it. #facts,  —   Kathy Shelton (@KathyShelton_) October 9, 2016,  If I’d had justice vs my rapist, maybe I could have healed. But Hillary Clinton made sure I suffered loss of justice, then laughed it off.  —   Kathy Shelton (@KathyShelton_) October 9, 2016,  Hillary Clinton is a   liar. The lies she told about me, 12 yr old rape victim, traumatized me nearly as much as the rape itself.  —   Kathy Shelton (@KathyShelton_) October 9, 2016,  No little girl should suffer violent rape like I did  …     But no grown woman should attack that little girl like @HillaryClinton did. #debate,  —   Kathy Shelton (@KathyShelton_) October 10, 2016,  At 12 I was one of the first women Hillary Clinton destroyed, but I wasn’t the last. Please put an end to this woman’s career of abusing us.  —   Kathy Shelton (@KathyShelton_) October 10, 2016,   : FALSE.  Capt. Khan was an Army officer who gave his life defending fellow soldiers in Iraq, and whose parents attacked Trump in a speech at the Democratic National Convention. When asked about the speech by ABC News’ George Stephanopoulos (a former aide to President Bill Clinton) Trump made a comment about the silence of Khan’s mother, who stood mute onstage alongside Khan’s father. But Trump never said anything negative at all about Capt. Khan, and in fact praised his sacrifice on nearly every occasion.  Trump reiterated his praise for the late Capt. Khan in his rebuttal to Clinton: “Captain Khan is an American hero. ”  : MOSTLY TRUE,  The   transcripts of Hillary Clinton’s paid speeches have her speaking supportively of   systems, although in her public campaign pronouncements, she emphasizes “fixing” the problems with the Affordable Care Act. Some examples: “If you look at countries that are comparable, like Switzerland or Germany, for example, they have mixed systems. They don’t have just a   system, but they have very clear controls over budgeting and accountability. If you look at the   systems, like Scandinavia, Canada, and elsewhere, they can get costs down because, you know, although their care, according to statistics, overall is as good or better on primary care, in particular, they do impose things like waiting times, you know. It takes longer to get like a hip replacement than it might take here. ” (June 2013) “So we’re in a learning period as we move forward with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. And I’m hoping that whatever the shortfalls or the glitches have been, which in a big piece of legislation you’re going to have, those will be remedied and we can really take a hard look at what’s succeeding, fix what isn’t, and keep moving forward to get to affordable universal healthcare coverage like you have here in Canada. ” (January 2015) What Clinton says in public is often very different than what she tells her private speaking audiences. For example, she recently said she thought   would “never, ever happen,” but she was making a prediction and saying that ObamaCare repairs couldn’t wait for a   system to be created, not expressing her own policy preference:  “I want you to understand why I am fighting so hard for the Affordable Care Act. I don’t want it repealed, I don’t want us to be thrown back into a terrible, terrible national debate. I don’t want us to end up in gridlock. People can’t wait! People who have health emergencies can’t wait for us to have a theoretical debate about some better idea that will never, ever come to pass. ” During Clinton’s primary run against Bernie Sanders, the New York Times found her moving to the left on health care and saying she was “in favor of what’s called the public option, so that people can buy into Medicare at a certain age. ” Sanders was explicitly in favor of   health care  …     and described it as “Medicare for all. ”  : FALSE.   According to FBI Director James Comey, “the FBI also discovered several thousand     that were not among the group of 30, 000   returned by Secretary Clinton to State in 2014. ”  Federal investigators concluded that Clinton’s lawyers deleted nearly half of the 60, 000 emails on her server.   : HALF TRUE,  Trump was answering a question about Islamophobia, and while he acknowledged that prejudice against Muslims is a problem, he argued that political correctness places American lives at risk.   He cited the neighbors of the San Bernardino terrorists  —   and he was correct to do so, because they did tell reporters after the attack that they had seen unusual activity, but chose not to report it for fear of being accused of racial profiling. However, the neighbors did not actually see “bombs” (though that was, in fact, what the San Bernardino terrorists were building in their home). So while Trump’s statement about political correctness was essentially true, he was incorrect about the details. Clinton stated during the debate:  “I will not let anyone into the country that I think will poses a risk to us, but there are a lot  refugees, women and children  …     There are children suffering in this catastrophic war, largely I believe because of Russian aggression, and we need to do our part. We are by no means carrying anywhere near the load Europe and others are. But we will have vetting that is as tough as it needs to be, from our professionals, our intelligence experts and others. ”  : FALSE (According to Clinton herself)  The Wikileaks dump revealed that Clinton herself said refugees “can’t possibly” be vetted, as Breitbart News reported:  Breitbart News asked the Clinton campaign to reconcile the differences between Secretary Clinton’s 2013 private remarks, where she said Syrian refugees “can’t possibly” be vetted, to her 2015 and 2016 campaign claims that “vigilant” screening and “vetting” of “refugees from Syria, guided by the best judgment of our security and diplomatic professionals,” will be sufficient to safeguard American citizens from “jihadists coming in along with legitimate refugees,” but there has not yet been a response. We also asked the Clinton campaign to explain if Secretary Clinton believes the United States has unique vetting capabilities superior to those of Jordan, which enable us to successfully vet Syrian refugees she admits we cannot. The entire quote from Clinton’s speech to the Jewish United Fund of Metropolitan Chicago’s Vanguard Luncheon on October 28, 2013, included in the WikiLeaks document dump of Hillary Clinton’s paid speeches reads as follows: “So I think you’re right to have gone to the places that you visited because there’s a discussion going on now across the region to try to see where there might be common ground to deal with the threat posed by extremism and particularly with Syria which has everyone quite worried, Jordan because it’s on their border and they have hundreds of thousands of refugees and they can’t possibly vet all those refugees so they don’t know if, you know, jihadists are coming in along with legitimate refugees,” she said. “Turkey for the same reason. ”  In September, a top Obama immigration official also admitted to Congress that some refugees launch terrorist plots after they’ve been “vetted” and invited into the United States.   : MOSTLY TRUE,  This is an extremely difficult statement to   because a great deal depends on what is meant by “reforming the tax code. ” A thorough rundown of Clinton’s voting records on tax issues prepared by Forbes in April 2015 reveals little in Senator Clinton’s record that could be fairly described as a significant reform. In summary, Clinton voted against the Bush tax cuts, but voted for a few amendments to the bill that did not pass she eventually voted yes to extend those tax cuts, while complaining that she thought they benefited the wealthy too much. She voted in favor of a minor alteration to the Alternative Minimum Tax, to raise the exemption, while voting against a bill that would have repealed it, something that would have been a major tax reform. At the end of her term, she tried to raise the top marginal tax rate back to its   level, which is hardly a “reform” of the system.  : MOSTLY FALSE,  While one video published by the Al Qaeda affiliate   in Somalia uses video of Trump calling for a “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States,” Trump is largely absent from Al Qaeda, Islamic State, Hamas, and Hezbollah propaganda  —   the major jihadist groups who expend resources on producing propaganda to recruit fighters. Much of the propaganda released by one of the most active jihadist groups in the world, the Islamic State, focuses largely on the Quranic theme of jihad (“holy war”) and cites both the Quran and the Islamic documents known as hadiths. At one time, half of the propaganda the group published sold potential recruits on constructing a jihadist utopia in Syria and Iraq. Much of the media that does not touch on the benefits of living in a society cleansed of infidels instead depicts graphic executions, including some performed by children, intended to intimidate the Western world. One exception is a video in which an image of Bill Clinton captioned “fornicator” is used as a rallying cry to destroy America, “a secular state built on   laws whose soldiers fight for the interests of legislators, liars, fornicators, corporations, and for the freedom of Sodomites. ” The rise of groups like the Islamic State  —   formerly Al Qaeda in Iraq  —   has been fueled significantly by the growing chaos in the Middle East that followed the implementation of President Barack Obama’s foreign policy since 2008. The Obama White House’s approach to the Arab Spring, the Syrian Civil War, the fall of Muammar Qaddafi in Libya, the Houthi uprising in Yemen, and the teenaged war in Afghanistan have all left significant power vacuums from which jihadist groups have benefitted greatly  —   not just the Islamic State, but formerly moribund jihadist groups like Al Qaeda. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was critical in implementing these policies.  : HALF FALSE,  It is true that the Birther movement started among Hillary Clinton’s supporters. And, as Breitbart News reported, Clinton’s former campaign manager, Patti Solis Doyle, admitted that at least one member of the campaign had helped propagate the rumor (though she said that person was fired.) It is also likely true that Clinton confidant Sidney Blumenthal shopped the story to reporters. And it is unknown how much involvement Hillary Clinton herself had with the movement. However, it is a stretch to say, as Trump did, that Hillary Clinton herself personally started the Breitbart movement, and it is incorrect to claim that her campaign manager corroborated that particular accusation. (The real truth about the Birther rumor, which the mainstream media choose to ignore, may be that Barack Obama started it himself by allowing his literary agent to claim, for nearly two decades, that he was born in Kenya.)  : TRUE,  The New York Times obtained Trump’s tax returns which revealed that the Republican nominee avoided paying federal income taxes by reporting losses on his 1995 tax return. Clinton criticized Trump as the hypocritical embodiment of “the same rigged system he claims he will change. ” However, Clinton herself has taken advantage of the same tax loopholes she’s hammered Trump over.  According to Clinton’s 2015 tax returns, she reported capital gains losses to lessen her tax burden through a “carryover. ” On page 17, “Capital Gains and Losses” for “William J Clinton  Hillary Rodham Clinton, the Clintons reported a “  capital loss carryover” of $699, 540. In other words, Hillary Clinton reported a “net   capital gain or (loss)” of negative “$699, 540. ” During Sunday’s debate clinton also falsely stated that Trump is “somebody who maybe hasn’t paid federal income taxes in 20 years. ”  That statement is also false.  The Times admits that Trump’s tax statements reveal that he may have avoided paying income taxes for “up to 18 years.“ “They had a chance to do something with Syria, and that was the line,” Republican nominee Donald Trump said of his Democratic rival and the administration in which she worked. “You were there as Secretary of State with the   ‘line in the sand. ’”  “No, I wasn’t, I was gone,” Clinton replied.  : MOSTLY FALSE, President Obama delivered his famous “red line” speech  —   in which he described the use of chemical weapons against civilians by Assad as a “red line” that Assad could not cross without suffering serious international consequences  —   in August 2012. “We have been very clear to the Assad regime, but also to other players on the ground, that a red line for us is we start seeing a whole bunch of chemical weapons moving around or being utilized. That would change my calculus,” President Obama said at the time. Hillary Clinton served President Obama as Secretary of State from January 21, 2009 to February 1, 2013, according to the State Department. She was not in office when Assad used chemical weapons yet again in 2015, violating international law. The White House did not respond to Assad with any direct military retaliation.  Assad was most recently accused of using chemical weapons against civilians in Aleppo in September 2016. He remains dictator of Syria after “winning” an election in 2014.  : MOSTLY FALSE,  Clinton has frequently made this claim on the campaign trail, so media organizations have already had an opportunity to vet it. In June, the Washington Post gave her copious benefit of the doubt for being in favor of the concept behind the bill, but if she played any role in winning congressional approval, it was “hidden” and “debatable. ” “By all accounts, the prime mover behind CHIP was the late Sen. Edward Kennedy ( . ). He was inspired by a similar Massachusetts program and then enlisted Sen. Orrin Hatch ( ) as his partner in the effort. The idea was to fund children’s health care with money raised from taxes on tobacco products. Bill Clinton endorsed the idea in his 1997 State of the Union address but then backed off when it appeared that the concept would imperil budget talks with Republicans. With urging from the president, a Senate vote in May doomed the plan,” said the Washington Post  . Efforts to   Hillary Clinton’s role in pushing the bill have produced conflicting accounts  —   which, in and of itself, refutes her claim of bold bipartisan leadership. If Clinton was the driving force behind getting Democrats and Republicans together on CHIP, rather than Kennedy and Hatch, there wouldn’t be any real dispute about her role. Also, the accounts that do give her credit for helping with the bill are mostly words of appreciation from friendly Democrats, such as Kennedy’s office.  For example, a senior health adviser to Kennedy, Nick Littlefield, said of Clinton: “She wasn’t a legislator, she didn’t write the law, and she wasn’t the president, so she didn’t make the decisions. But we relied on her, worked with her and she was pivotal in encouraging the White House to do it. ” That encomium hardly supports Clinton’s claim of playing a leading role in rallying congressional support she was, at best, useful for encouraging her husband’s White House to stick with the bill. Clinton has occasionally claimed to have played a role in creating the CHIP legislation, a claim no knowledgeable contemporaneous source seems willing to support. More damningly, a 2008 review by the Boston Globe  —     Clinton’s claims during her primary run against Barack Obama  —   found that Clinton “had little to do with crafting the landmark legislation or ushering it through Congress, according to several lawmakers, staffers, and healthcare advocates involved in the issue. ” Orrin Hatch himself said of Clinton, “I do like her. We all care about children. But does she deserve credit for SCHIP? No  —   Teddy does, but she doesn’t. ” (“Teddy” is a reference to Senator Ted Kennedy.)  : FALSE,  Clinton never apologized for the statement, despite what her running mate and other surrogates have claimed.  Here is her full statement after her remarks emerged in the media. Note that the words “sorry” and “apologize” do not appear in any form, and that she merely says she “regret[s]” using the term “half. ” She   on the term “deplorable. ”  Even the Huffington Post, openly hostile to Trump, said: “Clinton Stands By ‘Deplorables,’ But Walks Back The Basket Size A Bit. ” HuffPo noted that Clinton said: “I regret saying ‘half’ ― that was wrong. ” But she did not apologize, and the reason she responded immediately was that she had been caught.  : MOSTLY FALSE,  Trump made himself a victim of hyperbole with this statement. If he had said America was currently experiencing one of its slowest growth periods since 1929, he would have been entirely correct, but there have been a few slower periods  —   and, of course, a few outright recessions, or negative growth  —   since then. It would be playing word games to argue that the recessions shouldn’t be counted, because they weren’t economic growth. Even so, it wouldn’t be correct to say the current growth rate is the absolute worst since 1929, although it is among the worst. It has been argued that the   recovery was the weakest of the   era, and that Obama’s is the only presidency since the Great Depression that never reached 3% GDP growth, but that’s not what Trump said.  : TRUE,  During a March 13, CNN Town Hall in Columbus, Ohio, Clinton said, “We’re going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business. ” Clinton continued to explain that “we’ve got to move away from coal and all the other fossil fuels, but I don’t want to move away from the people who did the best they could to produce the energy that we relied on. ” Ohio, a key battleground state, was the ninth largest coal producing state in 2013.   : TRUE,  Responding to an audience question asking what he would do to diminish “Islamophobia,” Trump noted that the United States has been targeted on multiple occasions in the past year by “radical Islamic terrorists. “And she,” referring to Clinton, “won’t even mention the word and nor will President Obama. ” “He won’t use the term, ‘radical Islamic terrorism,’” he continued. “Now, to solve the problem, you have to be able to state what the problem is or at least say the name. She won’t say the name and President Obama won’t say the name. ” In their coverage of Sunday night’s debate, website Politifact noted that “Trump is right that Clinton and Obama prefer to avoid those words. ” While Clinton has, during the course of her campaign for president this year, claimed that she was comfortable saying “radical Islamism” (though not “radical Islamic terrorism”) she has previously refused to use the term because “it sounds like we are declaring war against a religion. ” President Obama has refused to describe jihadist attacks as radical Islamic terrorism because “terrorist organizations like al Qaeda or ISIL  —   They have perverted and distorted and tried to claim the mantle of Islam for an excuse for basically barbarism and death. ” A recent   poll found that the issue of addressing jihadist attacks as “radical Islamic terrorism” is of particular concerns of Americans of Hispanic descent. 67. 7 percent of Hispanic American respondents  —   more than any other ethnic group, including White Americans  —   in the September 20 poll agreed with the phrase “We must identify Islamic radical terrorism for what it is. You cannot defeat something if you cannot talk about it. ” “‘No, there wasn’t ‘check out a sex tape,’ It was just, take a look at the person she built up to be this wonderful Girl Scout who was no Girl Scout,” Trump replied.   : MOSTLY TRUE, Trump tweeted after the first presidential debate that voters should look into former Miss Universe Alicia Machado’s background and see she was not the angel the Clinton campaign painted her as:  Did Crooked Hillary help disgusting (check out sex tape and past) Alicia M become a U. S. citizen so she could use her in the debate?  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016,  Trump tweeted, “Check out sex tape and past,” encouraging voters to look into Machado’s background, not watch her have sex on tape as she did on a reality show (which the media claimed wasn’t a “sex tape”) as she cheated on her   for the camera. Machado later had a child out of wedlock with one of Mexico’s most dangerous drug lords.   : MOSTLY TRUE,  Trump said the following: We are going to be thriving again. We have no growth in this country. If China has a GDP of 7 percent, it’s like a national catastrophe. We’re down to 1 percent. And that’s like no growth. We’re going lower in my opinion. And a lot of it has to do with the fact that our taxes are so high. Just about the highest in the world. And I’m bringing them down to one of the lower in the world. And I think it’s so important, one of the most important things we can do. But she is raising everybody’s taxes massively. “She,” of course, refers to Hillary Clinton. Trump was speaking in the context of his own plan to lower taxes to spur economic growth, versus Clinton’s plan to raise taxes. Trump said U. S. GDP growth is “down to 1 percent. ” In fact, GDP growth was originally reported as 1. 1 percent for the second quarter of 2016, and later revised up to 1. 4 percent. Trump’s statement is very close to the original number, and only a bit of an overstatement for the revised number. As for Trump’s assessment of the U. S. as having “just about the highest” taxes in the world, he did leave himself a bit of wiggle room by saying “just about. ” More importantly, to assess the truth of his statement, we must consider which taxes he’s talking about.  There are numerous countries with higher income tax rates  —   America is not even Top 10 on that score. But U. S. does have one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world  —   currently the third highest, behind the United Arab Emirates and Puerto Rico. Given Puerto Rico’s unique status, it would be fair to say the United States has the second highest tax rate of any nation. America’s top marginal corporate tax rate is 35% while the world average is only 22. 5% and the European average is about 19%. Trump wants to dramatically reduce the U. S. rate to 15%. Given the context of his remarks, it seems fair to assume he was talking about corporate tax rates when he said America’s were among the highest in the world, although he did not explicitly state that.  : TRUE.  According to the the Urban Institute, which examined the average Obamacare premium increases from 2015 to 2016, American consumers can expect to see major spikes in their healthcare costs. Those people in Oklahoma, who bought their own   exchange insurance plan, have seen their premiums rise 41. 8 percent from 2015 to 2016. The increase was 38. 6 percent in Tennessee, 25. 8 in Minnesota, and 24. 8 percent in Colorado.  Californians purchasing an Obamacare health exchange plan are looking at an average rate hike of 13. 2 percent. USA Today, which has not been complementary to Trump, admits that “many of next year’s premium rate increases on the Affordable Care Act exchanges threaten to surpass the high and wildly fluctuating rates that characterized the individual insurance market before the health law took effect. ”