Breitbart News    Clinton Cash author, and Government Accountability Institute president Peter Schweizer told Breitbart News Daily SiriusXM host Matthew Boyle on Saturday, “The Podesta emails show stunning facts that are very troubling and that show that    was widespread in the Clinton Foundation. ”[Schweizer said one of the most stunning revelations uncovered by the WikiLeaks email dumps was that found in the internal review of the Clinton Foundation, ordered by Chelsea Clinton, in which auditors noted that “some interviewees reported conflicts of those raising funds or donors, some of whom may have an expectation of quid pro quo benefits in return for gifts. ”  “That the word of the internal review, that there was this expectation with donors that they were going to a quid pro quo,” Schweizer said. Schweizer also noted that WikiLeaks emails provide proof that the “Clintons have a long and lucrative history of financial deals with the Russians, particularly with the Russian government. ” Schweizer explained the “deep ties” the Clintons have to Russia, specifically how in 2010   of State Hillary Clinton approved the sale and transfer of 20% of U. S. uranium output to the Russian government: You’ve got this uranium deal, in which Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State signed off and approved the sale of a Canadian company to the Russian government  —   Rosatom, the State Atomic Energy Corporation  —   that was allowed to purchase a company called Uranium One. Hillary Clinton approved that deal as Secretary of State. But the small Canadian company, Unrianub One, that was sold, was owned by shareholders who are huge contributors to the Clinton Foundation. In fact, Matt, $145 million went to the Clinton Foundation from nine shareholders in Uranium One. “But the Russian ties go even deeper than that,” Schweizer added, “they go to the Chairman of Hillary Clinton’s campaign, John Podesta. Schweizer explained how the Wikileaks emails reveal how Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta secured “75, 000 common shares” from his membership on the executive board of an energy company, Joule Unlimited, which received $35 million from a   Russian government fund. “You literally have the campaign chairman of the Clinton campaign business partners, directly, with Vladimir Putin,” Schweizer said. “When it comes to Russian ties and Russian financial ties, you have to begin with the Clintons. ” Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @jeromeehudson