Hillary Clinton kept a small crowd waiting Wednesday at the University of New Hampshire where she, alongside Bernie Sanders, gave a lackluster speech about helping college students. [Before Clinton showed up, a local blonde woman tried to rile up the crowd with a ranting feminist speech, declaring, “I am a woman! And I’m pretty good at it. How many of y’all are good at it?”  “I don’t care if you’re doing it in the morning, doing it in the evening, or taking a break in the middle of the day for a quickie. Y’all gotta get out there and vote,” the woman said, noting that there is “nothing sexier” than voting. The woman said that Donald Trump “doesnt think much of our minorities and he certainly doesn’t think much of women  …    Don’t let Donald Trump or any other jerk tell you you’re not beautiful. ” Clinton and Sanders finally showed up at 3:13 PM, though the event was supposed to begin 58 minutes earlier. After clapping awkwardly to the feminist anthem “Fight Song,” Clinton segued into an uninspired speech. “Isn’t this one of the strangest elections you’ve ever seen? I sometimes really don’t know what to make of it,” Clinton mused. Throughout her speech, Donald Trump supporters dominated Youtube and Facebook livestream comments with     sentiments. “Bernie’s campaign energized so many young people,” she said of Sanders, who talked about   college. “We ran a campaign about issues, not insults. ” Clinton said that Trump wants to do harm to “marriage equality” and “a woman’s right to make her own health care choices,” promoted something called “hillaryclinton.” and said, “Bringing people together is what I’m going to be spending a lot of time doing as your president. ” Clinton talked about her brief stint teaching law school in Arkansas, where she claimed she knew some of the students: “I’d go and eat with them and go to events with them. ” But they had problems. “Maybe they lived out in the country and their old car broke down. Maybe they had a health emergency,” she said. Despite setting up a vague hypothetical, Clinton then stated as fact that “they would come to me and say  …    where can I get the $300 to fix my car?  …    How can I pay the doctor’s bills?” After saying the government needs to give people “sometimes a second or third chance” she shifted into screaming mode to bellow, “So please make sure you come out and vote in this election. ” Sanders shouldered most of the policy burden in their townhall forum and promised to work with “President Clinton” to get his   policy proposals passed. “Well, the   plan applies to” students from both in and out of state, Clinton said. The Republican National Committee has accused Clinton of being vague and changing her college debt and tuition plan.