A   web petition calling on the federal government to officially recognize Black Lives Matter as a terrorist organization is approaching 100, 000 signatures, the minimum threshold for a response from the White House. [The petition, created on the official White House petition site a day before the deadly massacre of police officers in Dallas, Texas by black supremacist Micah Xavier Johnson, has gathered considerable momentum over the weekend, and at its current rate will reach the minimum threshold little more than a week after its creation.  The petition, which calls on the White House to “Formally Recognize Black Lives Matter As a Terrorist Organization,” contains the following description: Terrorism is defined as “the use of violence and intimidation in pursuit of political aims”. This definition is the same definition used to declare ISIS and other groups, as terrorist organizations. Black Lives Matter has earned this title due to its actions in Ferguson, Baltimore, and even at a Bernie Sanders rally, as well as all over the United States and Canada. It is time for the pentagon to be consistent in its actions  —   and just as they rightfully declared ISIS a terror group, they must declare Black Lives Matter a terror group  —   on the grounds of principle, integrity, morality, and safety. The petition now requires just under 5, 000 more signatures to get an official response from the White House. The White House’s official online petition system, dubbed “We The People” was introduced by President Barack Obama shortly before the end of his first term. Despite promising to answer any petition that meets the 100, 000 threshold, “We The People” has attracted criticism due to the administration’s tendency to leave petitions that meet the threshold unanswered for months, and sometimes years. In 2013 The Washington Post published a list of 30 petitions that had been left unanswered by Obama’s White House despite meeting the signature threshold.   petitions calling on the administration to pardon NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and officially deem the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist organization went unanswered for over a year, and in April 2014 someone even launched a petition calling on the White House to actually answer their petitions. You can follow Allum Bokhari on Twitter, add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to abokhari@breitbart. com.