Asked about endorsements of Hillary Clinton by Planned Parenthood and the Human Rights Campaign, rival Bernie Sanders responded that both organizations are part of “the political establishment. ”[In an MSNBC interview Tuesday, Sanders said:  What we are doing in this campaign  —   and it just blows my mind every day, because I see it clearly, we’re taking on not only Wall Street and the economic establishment, we’re taking on the political establishment. And so I have friends and supporters in the Human Rights Fund, in Planned Parenthood. But you know what, Hillary Clinton has been around there for a very, very long time and some of these groups are, in fact, part of the establishment. “Look, I’m going to do well and hopefully not win because of establishment support,” Sanders added. Clinton, the Human Rights Campaign, and Planned Parenthood responded to Sanders in turn on Twitter: Really Senator Sanders? How can you say that groups like @PPact and @HRC are part of the “establishment” you’re taking on?    —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) January 20, 2016,  We respect @SenSanders. Disappointed to be called “establishment” as we fight like hell to protect women’s health. https:  .   —   Planned Parenthood (@PPact) January 20, 2016,  We share @PPact‘s disappointment in Sanders’ attacks. @HRC has proudly taken on the establishment  fought for LGBT people for over 30 years,  —   HumanRightsCampaign (@HRC) January 20, 2016,  According to MSNBC, Sanders’ campaign spokesperson, Michael Briggs, responded to the Human Rights Campaign’s Clinton endorsement by saying, “It’s understandable and consistent with the establishment organizations voting for the establishment candidate, but it’s an endorsement that cannot possibly be based on the facts and the record. ” Writing at the Daily Kos, Laura Clawson thinks Sanders’ view of the Human Rights Campaign as “establishment” hits the target, but defends Planned Parenthood. She writes: The Human Rights Campaign as establishment? I can pretty much go there with him. But Planned Parenthood? Planned Parenthood that’s under constant attack from Republicans in Congress and in state governments across the country? Planned Parenthood that provides affordable healthcare to millions of women each year, most of them  ? “That’s   …     unfortunate language from Sanders,” she concludes.