As violence against Donald Trump supporters continues, Sen. Harry Reid ( ) is blaming Donald Trump, while other Democratic leaders and the media remain silent and refuse to condemn the attacks. [Breitbart News asked Reid, several other Democrat leaders, and two prominent media personalities if they will be calling on Trump opponents to end their recent spate of violent attacks against Donald Trump supporters.  “Senator Reid is calling for Trump to rise to the responsibility of his office and help put an end to all the hate crimes that have been committed since Election Day, but so far, he has failed. It’s a shame Trump is choosing to hide behind his Twitter account and play ‘Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous’ with TMZ instead of healing our country,” a spokesperson for Sen. Reid said in a statement emailed to Breitbart News on Thursday. Breitbart News specifically asked if Reid would call on Trump opponents to stop the violence against Trump supporters in a follow up question. “I don’t mean to sound rude but what part of ‘all’ don’t you understand?” a spokesperson for Reid told Breitbart News. Breitbart News pressed further, and asked if Sen. Reid will specifically tell Trump opponents to stop committing acts of violence against Trump supporters. “Of course. Senator Reid doesn’t think anyone should be committing hate crimes against anyone else  —   I don’t know how to be any clearer about that,” the Senator’s spokesperson emailed Breitbart News. “But Senator Reid is not the   of the United States, nor was it Senator Reid’s election that set off the wave of hate crimes. Donald Trump has a unique responsibility as president to step up. If   wants to let Trump off the hook, that’s your business. I cannot say that I am shocked,” the spokesperson for Sen. Reid added. In   Trump’s   60 Minutes appearance with Leslie Stahl, Trump looked into the camera and said “stop it” in a direct message to any of his supporters involved, as Stahl asserted they were, in acts of violence. As Breitbart’s Joel Pollak reported on Thursday, “Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid ( ) took to the Senate floor this week to attack Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon as a ‘a champion of white supremacists,’ recycling false accusations against him and demanding that   Donald J. Trump rescind Bannon’s Sunday appointment as Chief Strategist and Special Counselor in the new administration,” noting that “Bannon remains on a leave of absence from Breitbart after joining the Trump campaign as CEO in August. ” Reid has a long history of making false accusations from the floor of the Senate, using the parliamentary privilege he enjoys to slander political opponents. In 2012,   Leader Reid infamously attacked Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney from the floor of the Senate, claiming that he had paid no taxes for ten years, and citing an unnamed source. “So the word is out that he has not paid any taxes for 10 years. Let him prove he has paid taxes because he has not,” Reid claimed. Breitbart News asked Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer ( ) Sen. Elizabeth Warren ( ) Sen. Bernie Sanders ( ) House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( ) and the Hillary Clinton for President campaign if they are going to condemn the violence against Trump supporters. Schumer did not respond to the inquiry. Warren did not respond to the inquiry. Sanders did not respond to the inquiry. Pelosi did not respond to the inquiry, and the Hillary Clinton for President campaign did not respond the the inquiry. Breitbart News also contacted Rachel Maddow of MSNBC and Brian  Stelter of CNN and asked if they are going to condemn the violence against Trump supporters, Maddow did not respond to the inquiry, nor did Stelter.