Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ primary campaign was undermined by supposedly neutral party officials, according to a document snatched from Democratic National Committee by the hacker who calls himself “Guccifer 2. 0. ”[The document shows that Clinton and the DNC have been working in together against Sanders from at least the spring of 2015.  The document, dated May 26, 2015, shows that the DNC had already chosen Clinton as the party’s expected nominee and was going to work with reporters from mainstream outlets to downplay Clinton’s negatives and to highlight her positives throughout the course of the primary. The document was created on same day that Sanders announce his candidacy. The document also shows the DNC working against former Sen. Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley and former Virginia Sen. Jim Webb —  who all launched candidacies of their own —  and also against Vice President Joe Biden, who was considering his own candidacy. “Reporter Outreach: Working through the DNC and others, we should use background briefings, prep with reporters for interviews with GOP candidates,    conversations and oppo pitches to help pitch stories with no fingerprints and utilize reporters to drive a message,” the document reads, according to Red Alert Politics. The document shows how the DNC was working directly for “HRC,” the initials of “Hillary Rodham Clinton. ” “Our goals in the coming months will be to frame the Republican field and the eventual nominee early and to provide a contrast between the GOP field and HRC,” the document continues. “Over the   these efforts will be aimed at getting us the best   in the general election, and weakening the eventual nominee through the course of the primary. ” “Our goals in the coming months will be to frame the Republican field and the eventual nominee early and to provide a contrast between the GOP field and HRC,” the document says. “Over the   these efforts will be aimed at getting us the best   in the general election, and weakening the eventual nominee through the course of the primary. ” The document also shows how Democrats expert the establishment media will work    with the Democrats against GOP presidential candidates. It was not clear at that time —  more than a year ago —  that Donald J. Trump, a billionaire real estate developer, would become the eventual GOP nominee as he now has done.  