Reacting to Hillary Clinton’s speech today, Breitbart editor Milo Yiannopoulos, two of whose headlines were denounced by the   Democratic nominee during her speech in Reno today, said it was Clinton and her brand of politics who are responsible for the rise of the  .[ Hillary Clinton today used every tactic in the playbook of the   progressive Left: smears,   and  . This is precisely what the   is responding to. They post offensive memes because they know it’ll wind up boring, grouchy grannies like Hillary. The speech codes and political correctness of the Left are what has given rise to this vibrant new movement, what has given rise to Donald Trump’s extraordinary popularity, and what gives rise to me  —   and my fabulous headlines! They were, by the way: “Birth Control Makes Women Unattractive And Crazy” (sorry, no offense, but it’s true!) and “Would You Rather Your Child Had Feminism Or Cancer?” (no prizes for guessing which readers chose). Little did I realise when I coined the #FeminismIsCancer hashtag that it would end up in the mouth of the Democratic nominee for President. But there’s something else that Clinton represents. While she obsesses over the ironic memes of dissident youths on the internet, there are Black Lives Matter activists calling for the deaths of white police officers, and there are teaching assistants in American universities hosting courses on “how to stop white males. ” If there’s genuine, noxious and damaging racism in the United States, it isn’t coming from the   who are responding to it. Much of the  ’s rhetoric is designed to illuminate the absurdity of identitarian politics and the blatant hypocrisy and cruelty of the progressive Left. It’s working  —   and that’s why the Left is so scared. Hillary is using the same old failed leftist tactics of   vague allegations and    but hoping for a different result this time. In other words, she is complaining about a phenomenon she helped to create, thinking she can beat it with the bad habits and lazy smears that fostered it in the first place. Good luck with that!