Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union,” while discussing the recent protests and violence at Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s rallies Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sander ( ) said while protesters at the canceled Chicago event on Friday had Sanders signs, his campaign had nothing to do with the protests.  Partial transcript as follows: TAPPER: So Donald Trump said Saturday that some of the people who disrupted his rally in Chicago, quote, ‘represented Bernie, our communist friend.’ You just heard him say that. And then this morning he issued something of a warning to you on Twitter. He wrote ‘Bernie Sanders is lying when he says his disrupters aren’t told to go to my events. Be careful Bernie, more my supports will go to yours.’ What’s your response, sir? SANDERS: Well, for a start, Mr. Trump should be  —   we should take Mr. Trump’s words with a grain of salt because I think as almost every knows, this man cannot stop lying about anything. To call me a communist is a lie. To talk about our organization or our campaign disrupting his meeting is a lie. Were there some people there  —   there were thousands of people as I understand it. Some of them were supporters of mine but certainly absolutely we had nothing to do  —   our campaign had nothing to do with disrupting his meeting. I think what you see, Jake, is a man  —   and even his Republican colleagues make this point, his language, his intonations,  —   when he talks about carrying people  out on stretchers, when you see at his rallies people sucker punch folks, kick them when they’re down, This is a man who keeps implying violence and you end up getting what you see. So I think that he, in fact, has got to tell his supporters that in the United States of America, you don’t go beating up people, that people have a right to peacefully protest. I hope that become the tone of his campaign. But I will also say this, I think Trump is getting nervous because he is seeing in virtually every national poll, last NBC poll we were 18 points ahead of him, statewide polls we are way ahead of him. People in America know that we cannot have a president like Trump who insults Mexicans, who insults women, who insults Muslims, who insults veterans in John McCain. People are catching on to Donald Trump. That’s why he’s getting reckless. Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN