Mark Morford, a liberal columnist for the San Francisco Chronicle, published a tirade Monday in which he wished for Rush Limbaugh’s death  —   both commercially and literally. [In a column entitled “Cheer up! Rush Limbaugh is not long for this world,” Morford hailed “the imminent,   demise of the most fatuous, morally flatulent king of all hate media. ”  Citing   sources such as Media Matters, Morford claimed that Limbaugh’s ratings are declining and his contract renewal is jeopardized by the financial troubles of iHeartMedia (formerly Clear Channel). He also expressed the hope that Limbaugh “suffers an inoperable swarm of genital warts, in perpetuity, forever. ” Morford, who has been suspended from the paper several times, including for mocking statutory rape, is responsible for a   column during the 2008 campaign lauding  . Barack Obama as a “Lightworker”: Many spiritually advanced people I know (not coweringly religious, mind you, but deeply spiritual) identify Obama as a Lightworker, that rare kind of attuned being who has the ability to lead us not merely to new foreign policies or health care plans or whatnot, but who can actually help usher in a new way of being on the planet, of relating and connecting and engaging with this bizarre earthly experiment. These kinds of people actually help us evolve. They are philosophers and peacemakers of a very high order, and they speak not just to reason or emotion, but to the soul. [Original emphasis] Beyond Limbaugh, Morford writes, there are still other conservatives to hate, including “Breitbart, Drudge, Alex Jones, Ann Coulter, Michael Savage and, um, a few others I don’t care to dredge up, because I have a functioning soul, because I value joy and I care about the world. ” The Chronicle publishes Morford’s column under the heading “Notes  Errata. ” He also describes himself as a “senior yoga instructor” and “admirer of trees. ” Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new   Leadership Secrets of the Kings and Prophets: What the Bible’s Struggles Teach Us About Today, is on sale through Amazon Kindle Direct. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.