Because the DC Media believe it is a powerful weapon that benefits Democrats, nothing will ever stop them from using it. But if this same media truly believed in science and objectivity, the results in Iowa would forever end their relentless smears against conservatives as racists. Tuesday night, one of the whitest and most conservative states in the country  —   Iowa  —   gave 60% of the Republican vote to two Hispanics and a black man.  Moreover, for the first time in history a Hispanic won a presidential primary. But due to the fact that Ted Cruz is Republican, no one on the media dares say so. Hispanic Ted Cruz handily won the evening with 28% support. Hispanic Marco Rubio shocked the world with a third place showing of 23%. Dr. Ben Carson, a black man, came in 4th with 9%. Total: 60%. Meanwhile, over on the Democrat side, two people so old and so white they seem like something straight out of central casting, won 99% of the vote. Another white guy took the remaining 1%. Democrats gave their voters no other alternative. Although our  ’ obsessed media do not see this as a virtue, those 60% of mostly white Republicans are colorblind. They voted for the man and the content of the man’s character, not the skin color. The DC Media is so eager to cover this fact up, history is being ignored. Ted Cruz is the first Hispanic to win Iowa, and for strictly partisan political purposes, the media is intentionally refusing to report that news. In fact, Cruz is the first Hispanic to win any kind of presidential primary. That isn’t making news today for one very simple reason: the DC Media sees Cruz as the wrong kind of Hispanic, a “white Hispanic,” a    …     If Cruz were a Democrat, his win would be all about this historic first and what it means for America. The media would be going insane pumping this fact. Instead, they are wishing this history into a cornfield. In the future, when a Hispanic Democrat does win a presidential primary, only then will the media celebrate that victory as a historic first. Ted Cruz will become a asterisk.