All eyes will be on Hillary Clinton on the final day of the Democratic National Convention as she not only accepts her party’s nomination for president but also tries to follow President Barack Obama’s barnburner of a speech last night. Chelsea Clinton will introduce her mother while Katy Perry is scheduled to perform.  Stay tuned to Breitbart News for live updates.   And vote in Breitbart’s poll here. And view Breitbart’s live coverage of the protests outside where Green Party candidate Jill Stein is trying to upstage Hillary Clinton. All times eastern.  —   12:15: Trump campaign’s official response: Trump campaign calls @HillaryClinton’s #DemConvention speech ’insulting collection of clichés and recycled rhetoric’ pic. twitter.   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 29, 2016,    12:05: Trump responds, slams Clinton for not mentioning “radical Islam. ” No one has worse judgement than Hillary Clinton  —   corruption and devastation follows her wherever she goes.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2016,  Hillary’s wars in the Middle East have unleashed destruction, terrorism and ISIS across the world.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2016,  Hillary’s vision is a borderless world where working people have no power, no jobs, no safety.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2016,  Hillary will never reform Wall Street. She is owned by Wall Street!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2016,  Our way of life is under threat by Radical Islam and Hillary Clinton cannot even bring herself to say the words.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2016,  Our way of life is under threat by Radical Islam and Hillary Clinton cannot even bring herself to say the words.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2016,  Hillary’s refusal to mention Radical Islam, as she pushes a 550% increase in refugees, is more proof that she is unfit to lead the country.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2016,  11:58: Did she put Bill Clinton to sleep? 11:57: From Breitbart’s Joel Pollak: Sanders delegate for Jill Stein.  11:55: Thank you. pic. twitter.   —   Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 29, 2016,  Great speech. She’s tested. She’s ready. She never quits. That’s why Hillary should be our next @POTUS. (She’ll get the Twitter handle, too)  —   President Obama (@POTUS) July 29, 2016,  11:53: #plagarism alert @hillaryclinton at @DemConvention ”America is great bc America is good,” de Tocqueville ”America is great bc she is good”  —   Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) July 29, 2016,  11:40: Voters want poetry. ”For Hillary Clinton, this was all prose tonight,”  —   @chucktodd says re: Clinton. ”This was a speech Sanders could have given  .”  —   Meet the Press (@meetthepress) July 29, 2016,  11:37:    …     (is this ticket going to inspire the Obama coalition to turn out like they did in 2008 and 2012?) Tim Kaine embraces Hillary Clinton after her #DemConvention speech https:  .  #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   CNN (@CNN) July 29, 2016,    …    And now: pic. twitter.   —   NBC News (@NBCNews) July 29, 2016,   —   Tony Lee: Hillary Clinton seemed agitated that   Sanders’s supporters were disrupting the coronation she has wanted for decades. It prevented her from presenting a softer image of herself. The more I listen to Clinton speak on these stages, the more brilliant this ad from Obama allies in ’08 gets.  11:29: Tim Kaine joins Clinton on stage: pic. twitter.   —   Mari Schaefer (@MariSchaefer) July 29, 2016,  11:27: A dozen Oregon delegates have walked out of #DNCinPHL in protest during @HillaryClinton speech accepting nomination. pic. twitter.   —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 29, 2016,  11:25: Clinton ends with: Let our legacy be about “planting seeds in a garden you never get to see. ”That’s why we’re here. Not just in this hall, but on this Earth. The Founders showed us that. And so have many others since. They were drawn together by love of country, and the selfless passion to build something better for all who follow. That is the story of America. And we begin a new chapter tonight. Yes, the world is watching what we do. Yes, America’s destiny is ours to choose. So let’s be stronger together. Looking to the future with courage and confidence. Building a better tomorrow for our beloved children and our beloved country. When we do, America will be greater than ever. Thank you and may God bless the United States of America. 11:22: She is vowing to stand up against “mean” rhetoric. 11:21: Clinton says we have to deal divides on immigration and race and says, “so let’s put ourselves in the shoes of young black and Latino men and women who face the effects of systemic racism, and are made to feel like their lives are disposable. ” She also says, “let’s put ourselves in the shoes of police officers, kissing their kids and spouses goodbye every day and heading off to do a dangerous and necessary job. We will reform our criminal justice system from    and rebuild trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve. ” 11:16: Clinton asks Americans to ImagineTrump “in Oval Office facing a real crisis. A man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can trust with nuclear weapons. I can’t put it any better than Jackie Kennedy did after the Cuban Missile Crisis. She said that what worried President Kennedy during that very dangerous time was that a war might be started  —   not by big men with   and restraint, but by little men  —   the ones moved by fear and pride. America’s strength doesn’t come from lashing out. Strength relies on smarts, judgment, cool resolve, and the precise and strategic application of power. That’s the kind of    I pledge to be. ” She’s now onto gun control. 11:12: Clinton blasting Trump: “He also talks a big game about putting America First. Please explain to me what part of America First leads him to make Trump ties in China, not Colorado. ” She also says, “Donald Trump says he wants to make America great again  —   well, he could start by actually making things in America again. ” [clears throat again as crowd chants “Hillary” to drown out Sanders’s supporters] 11:11: 11:10: Clinton seems   by the protests at her coronation. These are the instructions for  : pic. twitter.   —   Matthew Yglesias (@mattyglesias) July 29, 2016,  Custom sign spotted during Hillary’s speech ”Liar” #DNCinPHL @JaredWyand @Cernovich @MikeMa_ @bakedalaska pic. twitter.   —   Andrew Torba (@torbahax) July 29, 2016,  11:10: Clinton, without irony, says when more than “90% of the gains have gone to the top 1% that’s where the money is  …     And we are going to follow the money” 11:02: She says Trump spoke for   minutes  …    ”and I do mean odd” and “offered zero solutions. ” [clears throat.]   10:58: Clinton now defending the   legacy. Then she says “none of us can be satisfied with the status quo. ” She says Democrats are the “party of working people” but “we haven’t shown a good enough job” of understanding their concerns. Clinton pushing for a Constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United. She wants American corporations should be “just as patriotic in return  …    ” She says it would be “ ” and “inhumane” to kick out immigrants. She says comprehensive amnesty legislation “is the right thing to do. ” “It’s wrong to take tax breaks with one hand and give out pink slips with the other,” she says. “And I believe Wall Street can never, ever be allowed to wreck Main Street again. ” [clears throat]10:53: Clinton going over her biography, saying her heart “just swelled when I saw Anastasia Somoza on this stage, representing millions of young people who  …    because of those changes to our laws  …    are able to get an education. ” She says it is true that she sweats policy details. She says she has met many people who have inspired her to fight for change and she will carry all of their voices and stories to the White House. [clears throat] She says she will be a president for those who vote for her and those who don’t  …     she mentions that we have reached a milestone  …     the first time a major party has nominated a woman for president. She says she’s happy for boys as well because “when any barrier falls in America, for anyone, it clears the way for everyone” and “when there are no ceilings, the sky’s the limit. ” From Breibart’s Joel Pollak: Jill Stein Sign on floor.  10:50: She’s talking about how her mother Dorothy was abandoned by her parents as a  young girl and was “saved by the kindness of others. ” 10:48: She says she comes from a family where nobody had their names on buildings. Her grandfather “worked in the same Scranton lace mill for 50 years. ”   10:47: Clinton: And so it is with humility, determination, and boundless confidence in America’s promise  …     that I accept your nomination for President of the United States! [clears throat.] 10:46: After saying she wrote a book titled “It Takes a Village,” Clinton explains what she meant by it: None of us can raise a family, build a business, heal a community or lift a country totally alone. America needs every one of us to lend our energy, our talents, our ambition to making our nation better and stronger. I believe that with all my heart. That’s why “Stronger Together” is not just a lesson from our history. It’s not just a slogan for our campaign. ” She also says she’s fighting for a county where “love trumps hate. ” [She keeps clearing her throat. ”   10:45: Interesting transition: “Remember: Our Founders fought a revolution and wrote a Constitution so America would never be a nation where one person had all the power. Two hundred and forty years later, we still put our faith in each other. Look at what happened in Dallas after the assassinations of five brave police officers. Police Chief David Brown asked the community to support his force, maybe even join them. And you know how the community responded? Nearly 500 people applied in just 12 days. That’s how Americans answer when the call for help goes out. ” 10:43: Unity? Audience keeps chanting “Hillary” to drown out Sanders’s protesters. She is mocking Trump for saying, “I, along, can fix it. ” [She keeps clearing her throat.] 10:42: Clinton promises to build a path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants. She says “we will not ban a religion” and will work with all of our allies to “fight and defeat terrorism. ” 10:40: From Breitbart’s Joel Pollak: 10:37: Clinton says when the Founders met, some wanted to stick with the king and some wanted to “stick it to the king. ” She says “our Founders embraced the enduring truth that we are stronger together. ” Clinton says our country’s motto is E Pluribus Unum and asks, “will we stay true to our  motto?” She says Trump wants to divide us from the rest of the world and each other. She says Trump has taken Republicans from “morning in America” to “midnight in America. ” She says Trump wants us to fear the future and each other. She is now citing FDR’s “the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. ” 10:32: Crowd chanting “Hillary” to drown out protesters. She says we heard from the man from hope, Bill Clinton, and the man of hope, Barack Obama. Clinton says she wants to thank Bernie Sanders. “Bernie, your campaign inspired millions of Americans, particularly the young people who threw their hearts and souls into our primary. ” She says Sanders put economic and social justice issues “front and center  …     where they belong. ” She wants his supporters to know, “I’ve heard you. Your cause is our cause. ” [She keeps clearing her throat.] 10:27: Hillary appears on stage and has an extended moment with Chelsea. Hillary Clinton on stage to accept the nomination pic. twitter.   —   Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) July 29, 2016,  10:20: Day 1 of #DNCinPHL: no American flags. Day 4 of #DemsInPhilly: FLAGS FLAGS FLAGS pic. twitter.   —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 29, 2016,  With lights dim for @HillaryClinton bio video, American flags are passed out. #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   Dan Nowicki (@dannowicki) July 29, 2016,  10:13: Chelsea says she’s voting for someone whno is a role model as a mother and an advocate. She says she’s voting for a progressive who will protect our planet from climate change and communities from gun violence. She says she’s voting for someone who knows women’s rights and LGBT rights are human rights here and around the world (but her Foundation accepts  money from plenty of nations that do not think they are). Chelsea Clinton: ”This November, I’m voting for a woman who is my role model as a mother and as an advocate.” https:  .   —   ABC News (@ABC) July 29, 2016,  10:11: America’s   agitators  …     pieces of work: Some hecklers literally turned their backs on a Medal of Honor winner. Thought we got past this  . U can be    !  —   James Hohmann (@jameshohmann) July 29, 2016,  10:09: Chelsea speaking about how her mother taught her about public service [Speech seems a bit too practiced  …     like mother, like daughter? ]. Interestingly, Chelsea refers to the “summer of ’94” as her mother’s low point (losing on health care). She says her mother never forgets who she’s fighting for. 10:02: Chelsea Clinton appearing on stage to introduce her mother. She says she is here as a proud American, Democrat, mother, and “a very, very proud daughter. ” She’s talking about how much her daughter loves   with grandma. Chelsea says her mom is “thoughtful” and “hilarious” and her mother was “always there for me. ” She’s talking about her obsession with dinosaurs as a kid. H with a heart signs as Chelsea takes the stage #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   Bridget Bowman (@bridgetbhc) July 29, 2016,  . @ChelseaClinton introduces her mother, @HillaryClinton #DemConvention #genderwatch2016 pic. twitter.   —   Gender Watch 2016 (@GenderWatch2016) July 29, 2016,  9:55: Katy Perry now performing. WATCH: @KatyPerry addresses DNC https:  .  #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) July 29, 2016,  Katy Perry says she didn’t graduate high school then tells #DemsInPhilly to vote to be as powerful as @NRA lobbyists pic. twitter.   —   Emily Miller (@EmilyMiller) July 29, 2016,  9:50: Rep. Xavier Becerra ( ) asking if Trump has ever had callouses on his hand. He wants Trump to release his college transcripts (he doesn’t believe Trump’s claims of doing well) and says Hillary Clinton “walks with us. ” Rep. Becarra: ”We have come a long way” from when my father would see the sign in restaurant windows: ”No dogs or Mexicans allowed.” #DNC,  —   Robert D Sullivan (@RobertDSullivan) July 29, 2016,  9:40: Rep. Sherrod Brown ( ) says he has never seen Trump in the all the years he has been fighting bad trade deals. He says Trump’s hats may say “made in America” but his ties say “made in China. ” . @SenSherrodBrown on Hillary Clinton: ”She’s a progressive who gets things done.” #DemsinPhilly https:  .   —   This Week (@ThisWeekABC) July 29, 2016,  9:35: Competing signs and chants: ”USA!” and ”NO MORE WARS!” while Gen. John Allen speaks at #DNCinPHL pic. twitter.   —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 29, 2016,  9:29: Some delegates chanting “No More War. ” Some California delegates chant ”no more war!” while General John Allen speaks. Others chant ”USA!” #DNCinPHL,  —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 29, 2016,    9:22: Convention has distributed US flags and USA signs to delegates as bereaved parents of Muslim soldier speak #DNCinPHL pic. twitter.   —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 29, 2016,  9:20: Ret. Gen. John Allen (As Breitbart’s Neil McCabe points out, Allen was involved in an email scandal when emails between him and Florida socialite Jill Kelley during the Petraeus scandal) says “we must choose hope” in this election and “must be a force for unity in America. ” Gen. John Allen  other military leaders stand together at #DNCinPHL. ”Free people of the world look to America.” pic. twitter.   —   Dave Sutor (@Dave_Sutor) July 29, 2016,  9:16: Father of slain   soldier asks if Trump has “ever read the Constitution” or “ever been to Arlington Cemetery. ” He says we cannot solve our problems by “building walls” and “sowing division. ” ”Have you even read the United States Constitution?”   Muslim parents of soldier to @realDonaldTrump. Most poignant moment #DNCinPHL,  —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 29, 2016,  Muslim American Khizr Khan asks Trump: ”Have you even read the Constitution?” and holds up copy,  —   Scott Wong (@scottwongDC) July 29, 2016,  9:15: DNC planning to lock people in to prevent walk out? The DNC is preventing a planned walkout by some during Clinton’s speech by locking ppl in the #DemConvention. pic. twitter.   —   Rania Khalek (@RaniaKhalek) July 29, 2016,  9:10: Kareem   now addressing the convention. He rails against Pence’s religious freedom law. He also blasts Trump’s Muslim ban: . @kaj33 jokes that he’s Michael Jordan: ”I know Donald Trump couldn’t tell the difference.” https:  .  https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 29, 2016,    9:02: William Barber (he called Jesus a “  Palestinian Jew”) preaching and calling for defibrillators of morality after touting a host of   issues like social justice and gun control. William Barber II: ”When religion is used to camouflage meanness, we know that we have a heart problem in America” https:  .   —   CNN (@CNN) July 29, 2016,  Rev. Barber is the voice of the moral defibrillator of America! pic. twitter.   —   Rep. Keith Ellison (@keithellison) July 29, 2016,  8:55: From Breitbart’s Joel Pollak in Philadelphia: 8:48: Family members of slain police officers now addressing the convention. 8:42: Dallas County Sheriff Lupe Valdez says “violence is not the answer. ” She remarkably rails against “talking within your own groups in your own language only where our groups understand  …     leads nowhere. We have to stop listening to each other. ” [Muted response  …     not even a golf clap]  …     Black Lives Matter protesters interrupt moment of silence:  Scattered shouts of ”Black lives matter!” during moment of silence for fallen police officers at DNC. #DemsinPhilly https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 29, 2016,  8:25: Former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm, seeming a bit less caffeinated than last time, says she wants to speak for Americans who feel they have been left behind and cheated. She points out that Michigan was the epicenter of America’s manufacturing rise and tragic decline (Trump is the one who has the plans to get rid of the unfair trade deals). She, though, is now talking about “advanced manufacturing. ” Granholm now mocking Trump for being so vain. Former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm: ”Imagine Donald Trump’s version of the Constitution” https:  .  https:  .   —   CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) July 29, 2016,  Granholm jokes Trump version: “I shall overcome. ” “Ask not what you can do for your country, ask what your country can do for me”  —   Tal Kopan (@TalKopan) July 29, 2016,    . @JenGranholm: ”Donald, you’re so vain, you probably think this speech is about you.” https:  .  https:  .   —   This Week (@ThisWeekABC) July 29, 2016,    8:21: Dems using seat fillers to cheer on Hillary Clinton later tonight? 8:11: Ted Danson and Mary Steenburgen now on stage. They are introducing  Americans from all walks of like who support Hillary Clinton. A home care worker from Detroit, an 8th grade social studies teacher, a woman whose husband works the late shift in Ohio and who met Clinton at a campaign stop, a woman who was fired from her job for asking about equal pay will speak. Ted Danson  Mary Steenburgen on stage. #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   Alex Yoder (@AlexYoder) July 29, 2016,  8:05: Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper speaking about how partnerships drive economies. He says Trump doesn’t pay his bills and small business go out of business. He claims Clinton “gets it” on small business. He says Clinton will make the largest investment in jobs since WWII. 8:00: Clinton campaign trying to contain the discord: Tall Hillary signs out already. Something to counter the ”Enough” shirts? #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   Tal Kopan (@TalKopan) July 28, 2016,    shirts glowing in the dark #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   Tal Kopan (@TalKopan) July 28, 2016,  7:58: VICE News @ScottFConroy interviews Matt Boyle and Milo at the DNC  &gt https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) July 28, 2016,  7:56: Rep. Tim Ryan ( ) trying to make the case that Trump is not on the side of workers. Apparently someone just got a promotion. pic. twitter.   —   Ken Thomas (@KThomasDC) July 28, 2016,  7:55: Jesse Jackson bumps into Joel: 7:55: From Breitbart’s Joel Pollak in Philadelphia:   7:52: Some excerpts from Clinton’s speech: “America is once again at a moment of reckoning. Powerful forces are threatening to pull us apart. Bonds of trust and respect are fraying. And just as with our founders there are no guarantees. It’s truly is up to us. We have to decide whether we’re going to work together so we can all rise together. “We are   about what our country is up against. But we are not afraid. We will rise to the challenge, just as we always have. “So I want to tell you tonight how we’re going to empower all Americans to live better lives. My primary mission as President will be to create more opportunity and more good jobs with rising wages right here in the United States. From my first day in office to my last. Especially in places that for too long have been left out and left behind. From our inner cities to our small towns, Indian Country to Coal Country. From the industrial Midwest to the Mississippi Delta to the Rio Grande Valley. “The choice we face is just as stark when it comes to our national security. Anyone reading the news can see the threats and turbulence we face. From Baghdad and Kabul, to Nice and Paris and Brussels, to San Bernardino and Orlando, we’re dealing with determined enemies that must be defeated. No wonder people are anxious and looking for reassurance  —   looking for steady leadership. “Every generation of Americans has come together to make our country freer, fairer, and stronger. None of us can do it alone. That’s why we are stronger together. ” 7:50: From Breitbart News’s Joel Pollak at the convention. He’s covering the discord at the convention because the mainstream media aren’t and won’t. On the convention floor some @SenSanders supporters continue to turn @HillaryClinton signs into #NeverHillary signs. pic. twitter.   —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 28, 2016,  A different view: these 2 @SenSanders delegates from Florida made signs to urge a vote for @HillaryClinton #DNCinPHL pic. twitter.   —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 28, 2016,  At #DNCinPHL this @SenSanders supporter makes her feelings about the Democratic Party clear: ”DNC GFY” pic. twitter.   —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 28, 2016,  Seen on convention floor at #DNCinPHL as @HillaryClinton prepares for speech:  ”Life’s a bitch. Don’t vote for one.” pic. twitter.   —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 28, 2016,  7:40: House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( ) says it is her honor to stand before the crowd as a “proud member of the progressive California delegation. ” She says House Democrats are proud that “we look like   America” and is listing off their accomplishments. She says the GOP convention was an “exclusive” gathering. She says Democrats gather “not to trumpet darkness. ” Pelosi says Americans must be “strong and smart” and actually talks about defeating ISIS. Now she’s pushing more gun control and discussing the need to “break the grip” of the gun lobby on Congress. 7:15: After Austin Goolsbee mocks Trump for not releasing his tax returns in a video, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo now takes the stage. He wants to acknowledge his father who passed away last year and gave one of the most memorable speeches at the 1984 Dem. convention. He says his dad’s keynote address in 1984 defined the Dem. party. “He loved being a Democrat,” he says of his late father. He says this election is about the “soul of the country” and accuses Republicans of fanning the flames of hate. He says Trump is using fear to drive ratings by telling people to “be afraid of people who are different. ” He is talking about fighting the NRA and winning in addition to his laundry list of   policy accomplishments in New York on gay rights, climate change, and the minimum wage. He claims that New York “proved that progressive government works. ” . @NYGovCuomo: ”Unless Republicans are all Native Americans, then they are immigrants too” https:  .  https:  .   —   ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 28, 2016,  7:05: Rep. Joaquin Castro ( ) says Trump will never be the “hero” of the American story.  He says Clinton is building an “infrastructure of opportunity” as Trump is trying to build walls. Castro mischaracterizing Trump’s comments. Joaquin Castro: ”Only grandparent I knew came from Mexico, wasn’t a   dealer, was an orphan worked as maid” pic. twitter.   —   Joyce Karam (@Joyce_Karam) July 28, 2016,  7:00: In a video message, Clinton praises DREAMer and staffer Lorella Praeli, who will be sworn in tomorrow as a U. S. citizen. She now appears on stage as the primetime festivities start. She says, “I’m an American. ” She says she was undocumented for 14 years. She says her “undocumented mother” taught her what it means to be an American. She asks people to vote for Clinton in Spanish. 6:55: Marlon Marshall of the Clinton campaign talking about the campaign’s voter registration efforts. 6:35: Female Dem. Senators join Sen. Barbara Mikulski ( ). She asks women to put on their lipstick and men to shine their shoes and get ready to fight for Clinton. Sen. Warren ( ) says Clinton doesn’t go to Twitter to give people “ugly” nicknames. WATCH LIVE: Elizabeth Warren makes another appearance to slam Trump at #DemConvention https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   The Hill (@thehill) July 28, 2016,  ”The history of women in the Senate is that short, it’s about 4 foot 11!”  —  @SenatorBarb,  —   Alex Gangitano (@AlexGangitano) July 28, 2016,  Sen. Barbara Mikulski brings out a squad of woman Senators at the #DemConvention  —   https:  .  https:  .   —   ABC News Live (@ABCNewsLive) July 28, 2016,  6:25: Rep. Jim Clyburn ( ) [Flashback: Bill Clinton made an extremely disrespectful phone call to him that bothered him greatly after Obama won South Carolina’s primary.] is speaking about breaking the ultimate glass ceiling. He says Clinton is a “fighter” who fights with her head and her heart. Clyburn promises Clinton will end mass incarceration. 6:23: Sanders supporters won’t rule out protests tonight. #Sanders supporters won’t rule out protests tonight https:  .   —   @jeffzeleny reports, panel analyzes #TheLead #DemsInPhilly,  —   The Lead CNN (@TheLeadCNN) July 28, 2016,    agitators continuing protests outside: ’Revolution Club’ protesters marching in FDR Park in Philadelphia during #DemConvention https:  .  https:  .   —   ABC News Live (@ABCNewsLive) July 28, 2016,  6:20: WATCH: @CaroleKing performs ”You’ve got a Friend” at the DNC https:  .  #DemsInPhilly https:  .   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) July 28, 2016,  6:10: Rep. Tammy Duckworth ( ) speaking about her “miraculous second chance. ” She says in Trump’s America, people who get knocked down stay down. She says she didn’t risk her life for the country so Trump could invite Russia to interfere with our democracy. 6:03: Dems. featuring Pennsylvania Senate candidate Katie McGinty. Liberals not happy with her speaking skills. Whatever virtues recommended Katie McGinty to the Democratic Party, public speaking is not on the list.  —   Matthew Yglesias (@mattyglesias) July 28, 2016,  5:57: Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti tells the crowd that Los Angeles has such a thriving Latino population that “we expect Donald Trump to build a wall around us. ” He calls Trump a “political pyromaniac” and says Trump’s politics has a “darkness” that will reverse America’s progress. 5:53: Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton says Trump has dedicated his life to “serving himself” while Clinton has spent a lifetime serving others. He says Trump wants to “step on all of us” to climb a bit higher. 5:39: Activist Dolores Huerta now on stage. She slams Trump in Spanish and says “we cannot be quiet” with Donald Trump on the ballot because he insults “Latinos like we’re   citizens” and “newcomers to this country. ” She says she has news for Donald Trump —  “we’ve been here all along. ” She says 800, 000 Latinos turn 18 every year and their contributions to Social Security and Medicare will ensure seniors have a safety net. She says all Democrats need to be activists in a pretty tame speech. She says Trump needs to get out of the way and if he doesn’t, “we need to take him out of the way. ” She leads the crowd in a “Si Se Puede” chant.  ¡Si se puede! ¡Si se puede! ¡Si se puede! ¡Si se puede! @DoloresHuerta #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   @Eva_Smith (@Eva_Smith) July 28, 2016,  5:35: Dems. celebrate Activist Sarah McBride —  the first trans person to address a convention. ”My name is Sarah McBride and I am a proud transgender American.”  That’s a first at a national convention.  —   Shane Goldmacher (@ShaneGoldmacher) July 28, 2016,  5:26: Rep. Emanuel Cleaver ( ) says it’s “dawn in America” and “we need a leader who can become trafficker in optimism. ” He talks about Andrew Jackson and Baby Jesus and starts screaming of Hillary Clinton, “she won’t stay throwed. ” Rep. Emanuel Cleaver just SHOUTED VERY LOUD about how Hillary Clinton would never ”STAY THROWED” no matter what bad things happened to her.  —   Daniel Dale (@ddale8) July 28, 2016,  5:22: Former Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter says Clinton believes in “GST” —  getting stuff done. 5:17: Nevada State Senator Ruben J. Kihuen describes his Mexican immigrant heritage and says Donald Trump “fears us. ” He says the truth Donald Trump doesn’t want you to know is “we are all Dreamers. ” 5:13: Tennessee State Representative Raumesh Akbari is making the case for Hillary Clinton to millennials. She praises Hillary as a “bad sister” and claims Republicans approved a platform that “enshrines intolerance. ” 5:08: Rep. Gwen Moore ( ) accuses Trump of viewing women as “dogs” and  “fat pigs. ” She says too many women, including her, have experienced sexual violence but “we are not victims. ” “My voice matters, and I will not shut up,” she says. Moore says she trusts Clinton because she has always stood up for women. 5:07: Even the Huffington Post highlights “dejected” Sanders supporters who are not ready for Hillary. 5:04: Colorado State Rep. Crisanta Duran says her parents gave her her name because in an inclusive America, it would not be a “wall to my success. ” 5:01: Rep. Cedric Richmond ( ) says because of “blood, sweat, and tears,” he can vote without guessing how many bubbles in a bar of soap and President Obama’s in the White House. He says “we have made great strides” under Obama but we have “miles to go. ” He says we have “miles to go” because kids have better access to guns than textbooks. Cedric Richmond might be the best player ever in the Congressional baseball game: https:  .   —   Domenico Montanaro (@DomenicoNPR) July 28, 2016,  4:59: Spotted riding the subway to #DNCinPHL: California’s @BradSherman  . Opposed #IranDeal supported @HillaryClinton pic. twitter.   —   Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) July 28, 2016,  4:55: The Human Rights Campaign’s Chad Griffin talking about the Orlando terrorist attack. He is slamming Trump instead of ISIS. 4:53: Jamie Harrison, the Chair of the South Carolina Democratic Party, accuses Donald Trump of wanting to take America back to the “old South” and says Democrats believe in a “new South. ” 4:48: South Carolina’s Bakari Sellers, a former South Carolina state Rep. who is now a CNN contributor, is speaking. He says Black Lives Matter and reminds the audience that before there was Hillary Clinton, there was Shirley Chisolm. 4:46: Villaraigosa says illegal immigrants deserve a voice in the Dem. party and accuses Trump of wanting to “vanquish” the dream. He says Dems. need to stand up and fight for illegal immigrants. He says Clinton is like a shepherd who wants to bring in not just the white flock but flocks of all colors, backgrounds, religions. 4:45: Former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa addressing the convention. He calls Clinton “one of the most tested and proven candidates in our party’s history. ” He has to get the audience to cheer for Clinton as the audience does not go wild when Clinton’s name is mentioned. [As last night proved, it’s Obama’s party.] 4:39: Rep. Ted Deutch ( ) says electing Clinton is not about making history but “creating the future. ” He says it’s not about electing a woman but electing “this woman. ” 4:36: Minnesota State Rep. Peggy Flanagan talking about a letter she wrote her daughter, who wants to grow up and be president. She calls Trump the “naughty” guy on television who says “nasty” things about “Native Americans like us. ” She wrote her daughter, “your name is not Pocahontas. ” 4:32: Gene Karpinski of the League of Conservation (DNC speaker announced him as being from the league of “conservative” voters) Voters names Donald Trump to its “dirty dozen” list. Gene Karpinski tells #DNC LCV’s top priority this year is electing Clinton,  —   Ben Adler (@badler) July 28, 2016,  4:30: “Enough is enough. ” Bernie fans wearing these neon shirts today, the final day of #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   Ben Gittleson (@bgittleson) July 28, 2016,  4:25: In a statement, Trump accuses Democrats this week of “speaking about a world that doesn’t exist. ” At Hillary Clinton’s convention this week, Democrats have been speaking about a world that doesn’t exist. A world where America has full employment, where there’s no such thing as radical Islamic terrorism, where the border is totally secured, and where thousands of innocent Americans have not suffered from rising crime in cities like Baltimore and Chicago. In the Democrats’ fantasy world, there is no problem with Hillary Clinton maintaining an illegal, exposed server full of classified information that could have been hacked by any foreign enemy, and in which Hillary Clinton risked prison time to delete 33, 000 emails that were simply about yoga and wedding planning. In this world, there is no Hillary Clinton disaster in Syria, Libya and Egypt, ISIS doesn’t merit a mention, Iran isn’t on the path to nukes, convention stages don’t need American flags, and our great men and women of law enforcement, our police, do not need to be honored. I propose a different vision for America, one where we can break up Washington’s rigged system, and empower all Americans to achieve their dreams. In our vision, we will put America First. If we deliver this change, the future is limitless and we will Make America Great Again for everyone. 4:20: Sanders calls Trump the most “dangerous” candidate to run in modern history. 4:15: SAD! Bernie Supporters Hold ‘’ Few Attend, 4:10: Rep. Marcia Fudge ( ) gavels in the last day of the convention. . @RepMarciaFudge gavels #DemConvention Day 4 into session  —   LIVE on   https:  .  #DemsInPhilly pic. twitter.   —   CSPAN (@cspan) July 28, 2016,  3:55:  ’s Anatomy’s Shonda Rhimes produced the video that will be shown tonight about Hillary Clinton’s life: . @shondarhimes, who made an ad for Clinton in primary, produced a   video of her life and her mother’s influence to be shown tonight.  —   Amy Chozick (@amychozick) July 28, 2016,  3:50: Trump campaigning in Iowa. Earlier, he accused Bernie Sanders of caving: Trump’s first Iowa event today is at Adler Theatre in Davenport  —   with lots of popcorn pic. twitter.   —   Ashley Killough (@KilloughCNN) July 28, 2016,   Bernie caved! #MakeAmericaGreatAgain, A video posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on Jul 28, 2016 at 11:31am PDT, 