An inappropriate touch. An insulting dismissal. A sexual ultimatum. A suggestion that a job is not fit for a woman. Droves of women have shared their own experiences with workplace sexual harassment on social media this week, spurred by claims against Bill O’Reilly, the Fox News host. The revelation that five women received settlements totaling $13 million after accusing him of sexual harassment or inappropriate behavior has prompted more than 20 companies to pull advertising from his show, while others have called for his dismissal. The outpouring came six months after thousands of women posted accounts of being groped or assaulted in the wake of Donald J. Trump’s boasts on tape that he had forced himself on women. In each case, social media offered an outlet for women who said they had either been too afraid or too ashamed to describe their experiences publicly, or to report them in their workplaces for fear of retaliation. As reports circulated about the O’Reilly case, a hashtag, #droporeilly, was born, and it soon morphed into a meeting place for women to describe the professional mistreatment they said they had endured. One of those women, Kerri McKeand, 40, a paralegal from Chicago, offered her experience of working as an assistant to a project manager on the construction of Trump Tower in Chicago, about 10 years ago. When she was required to visit a construction site, she and a female colleague were asked to appear less feminine by taping down their breasts, not wearing makeup and hiding their hair with bandannas, she said in an interview on Wednesday. Ms. McKeand refused to comply with the restrictions, she said. During that visit, while on an elevator with men, she was sexually harassed, and a pornographic magazine was tossed at her feet, she said. She reported it to her boss who, according to Ms. McKeand, said, “I told you this would happen. ” It was clear that “nothing would be done about it,” she added. “It was just kind of this accepted culture in this industry. ” She said that those experiences had led her away from the construction field. Becoming a project manager seemed like the highest position a woman could attain, she said. Many other women shared similar experiences. Ms. McKeand said she was heartened by women’s willingness to share their stories on social media. “Silence is pervasive, and I think the more silent we are about it, the more it will continue,” she said. “It’s especially important for younger women to know that these things exist and to know what they can do when they are faced with these situations. ” “I had no idea when I was younger of what sexual harassment was, what my rights were,” she added, citing an incident when she was 17, when her boss made her sit on his lap. “So hopefully this dialogue puts that in the forefront, so women can go into the work force having an idea of what’s acceptable and what’s not. ”