WASHINGTON  —   The new bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act is dead, killed off by House Republicans who never actually read the legislation  —   because in fact, it never actually existed. Conservative groups moved quickly on Wednesday to shift the blame for the failure of a   promise to repeal the law onto some    Republicans, after a small but powerful group of   House conservatives failed again to come to a meeting of the minds with the Trump administration over how best to repeal and replace President Barack Obama’s signature achievement. “The left wing among House Republicans doesn’t want to compromise or keep their pledge to voters to repeal Obamacare,” David McIntosh, the president of the Club for Growth, a conservative   advocacy group, said in a statement. “They’ve rejected deals that would give Americans more choices for cheaper health insurance, and now they won’t even allow states the chance to scale back Obamacare’s costliest regulations. ” The accusation  —   echoed by other conservatives  —   represents a remarkable turnaround in the blame game. The group and its supporters have opposed much of the major legislation considered by Congress in recent years. Last month, a House Republican bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act failed to get enough support to bring it to a vote. About 30 of the most conservative members of the House rejected the bill as preserving too much of the existing law, but as they pressed to dismantle ever more provisions, they pushed away more moderate House Republicans who were leery of leaving 24 million more Americans without health insurance. The effort was left for dead, until Vice President Mike Pence and other Trump administration officials raced up to the Capitol this week to cobble together a new agreement with the most conservative Republicans, the House Freedom Caucus. The revived measure, stirring in its grave, was known informally on Capitol Hill as Zombie Trumpcare. According to several members, Mr. Pence had proposed allowing states to obtain waivers from two provisions of the Affordable Care Act. One provision requires insurers to cover a standard minimum package of benefits, including maternity care and emergency services. The other generally requires insurers to charge the same price to people of the same age who live in the same geographic area. By allowing insurers to increase the cost of premiums for sick people, the waivers would effectively gut the Affordable Care Act’s most popular provision: mandated access to insurance for people with   medical conditions. But members of the House Freedom Caucus were pushing to allow states to compensate with “  pools,” where sick people could buy subsidized policies. Many congressional Republicans and President Trump viewed that option as morally and politically toxic. The proposals never made it into a bill, and members never gave the ideas a full unadulterated blessing. The entire exercise appeared to melt in the midday sun on Wednesday, as members prepared for their   recess, set to begin Thursday afternoon. Conservative groups were quick to attack the more moderate members of the Republican conference, particularly a group of lawmakers known as the Tuesday Group, as the reason the plan failed. “The Tuesday Group is opposed because they do not want to repeal Obamacare,” said Michael A. Needham, the chief executive of Heritage Action for America, a conservative group that opposed the original House Republican bill but remained supportive of the Freedom Caucus’s efforts. “They do not believe in policy innovation from the states. They do not believe in the basic premises of the Republican Party. ” Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania and a leader of the Tuesday Group, agreed that making the plan less palatable to governors  —   who were major opponents of the plan  —   and trimming benefits further were not helping to win his vote. “What they were talking about was not going to get me to yes,” he said, noting that the plan was untenable to many governors, Republican senators and the vast majority of health care groups and representatives even before efforts to make it more acceptable began. “This is just another gratuitous attack from the   chiefs of the purity police on an issue of great consequence,” he said. In fact, the entire effort never really had the scent of veracity. Any effort to appeal to the   members of the House Freedom Caucus was always going to repel Republicans in swing districts, especially those won in November by Hillary Clinton. The objections to the House outline went far beyond the most moderate corners of the conference, and included people like Representative Christopher H. Smith, Republican of New Jersey and one of the most active   members of the House, and Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska, who objected to the way his state, with particularly high health care costs, would have fared. “The congressman isn’t one to often label himself,” said Matthew N. Shuckerow, a spokesman for Mr. Young. “He is Alaska first. ” If the most conservative House Republicans were blaming moderates, the moderates, for their part, were just as critical of the conservatives. “The Freedom Caucus continues to play Lucy with the football and keeps moving the goal posts,” said Representative Chris Collins, Republican of New York and the first member of the House to endorse Mr. Trump. “I believe they are less than genuine in trying to get to yes. ” The suggestion by Heritage Action and the Club for Growth that moderates were to blame was “ridiculous on its face,” Mr. Collins said. In reality, there was probably never time to pass the measure. House Republicans have been operating under somewhat arcane budget rules to avoid a Democratic filibuster in the Senate. At some point, Republicans hope to adopt a new budget resolution for the fiscal year that begins in October. They plan to use that budget resolution to focus on tax cuts, not on health care. As conservative members prepared to return to their districts for the   spring recess, they desperately wanted to be able to tell their base voters that they were still trying to do away with the Affordable Care Act. “We are going home tomorrow without a deal,” Mr. Collins said. “The Freedom Caucus says they want to get to yes, but their actions don’t show that. The irony is, the very things they campaigned against will now be locked in because of their stubbornness. ”