Radio host Dennis Prager calls out the “Never Trump” movement for failing to articulate a compelling argument to deny their support for the Republican presidential nominee. [From Townhall:  #NeverTrump conservatives, such as (in alphabetical order) Jonah Goldberg, Bill Kristol, Ben Shapiro, Bret Stephens and George Will are not merely people I admire  —   they are friends and colleagues. Goldberg, Stephens and Will have made multiple videos for Prager University, which receive millions of views. Shapiro and I have spent Shabbat together. I have had the privilege of writing for Kristol’s The Weekly Standard and having him on my show many times. And I have enthusiastically promoted their books. These individuals are special to me not only as thinkers, but as people. However, in the final analysis, I do not find their arguments compelling. Take the “conscience” argument that one can sleep with a clear conscience by not voting for Trump. I don’t find it compelling because it means that your conscience is clear after making it possible for Clinton or any other Democrat to win. In fact, the “conscience” argument is so weak that Goldberg  —   to his credit  —   published a column two days ago titled “Sorry, I Still Won’t Ever Vote for Trump. ” He wrote, “If the election were a perfect tie, and the vote fell to me and me alone, I’d probably vote for none other than Donald Trump. ”   …     In the 2016 presidential race, I am not interested in moral purity. I am interested in defeating the left and its party, the Democratic Party. The notion (expressed by virtually every #NeverTrump advocate) that we can live with another four years of a Democratic president is, forgive me,  . To that end, with at least one, and probably multiple, additional leftists on the Supreme Court, a Republican presidential victory in 2020 would mean little. All the left needs is the judicial branch, especially the Supreme Court.   judges pass so many   laws that they render those who control Congress, and even the White House, almost irrelevant. Read the rest of the article here.