Tuesday on CNN’s “The Situation Room,” Republican National Committee spokesman Sean Spicer fielded numerous questions from host Wolf Blitzer as to why, how, when   Donald Trump should denounce   and white supremacist groups that have expressed their approval of this month’s presidential election results.  Spicer replied by asking Blitzer when enough was going to be enough and alluded to the numerous denouncements from Trump already on the topic. “When is it going to be enough?” Spicer declared. “He has condemned everyone that’s come out and supported him, every group that supported him. At some point you have to take the position and go and move on. But over and over again, somebody will come out and say I support Donald Trump. He has to denounce them. Someone tweets, he has to refute the tweet. At what point is his position clear? He has said he refutes that. That is not the kind of movement he wants to support or be energized by him. That’s not the kind of people he wants to be associated with. And so, I don’t know how many more times Donald Trump can make his position clear, but it has been crystal clear for a long time and over and over and over again with every tweet, utterance, you name it Facebook posts, he has to somehow respond to it. ” Blitzer pressed on, asking Spicer to speculate as to why these groups support Trump, to which Spicer replied, “I don’t know,” adding that it wasn’t his focus to know why groups supported the  . Unsatisfied with that response, Blitzer asked one more time and insisted Trump should “go out of his way” to express his outrage. “[Y]ou’ve asked me eight times, the same question,” Spicer added. “I’ve told you what his position is. Because that’s not his focus. His focus is making this country better for all Americans, creating a better country, creating a better education system for all Americans, rebuilding our inner cities. That’s what his focus is. So I get that you guys all want to ask the same question over and over again and make him denounce it eight ways to Sunday, but it’s not what he wants to talk about. He’s focused on making this country better. ” Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor