Hillary Clinton has tried to save herself from her latest email scandal with rhetoric that poses a dangerous threat to our democracy and even world peace. [This new email scandal is the Wikileaks release of a gaggle of DNC emails that prove the Democrat primary race was rigged in establishment Hillary’s favor. She’s tried to make herself the victim once again, blaming the Russians and —  bizarrely —  Donald Trump for the hack that set the emails free.  I have some news for Hillary and Democrats —  I think I’ve got the real culprit. It doesn’t seem to be the Russians that hacked the DNC, but instead a hacker who goes by the name of Guccifer 2. 0. The original Guccifer famously hacked Hillary’s home email server, you might remember. Here’s Guccifer 2. 0’s website. Have a look and you’ll see he explains who he is and why he did the hack of the DNC. Now, ask yourself: Why is Roger Stone the guy showing you this? This website isn’t hidden but of course our pathetic press patsies haven’t reported it they just keep repeating Hillary’s spin. Before I tell why Hillary’s dishonest   is so dangerous, let me explain a little more about why it seems like Guccifer 2. 0 is the real deal. He seems to have set up a Twitter account back in June and then a WordPress blog to let the world know that he’d hacked the DNC. Hi! I’m on Twitter now! this is my official account! #Guccifer2https:  .   —   GUCCIFER 2. 0 (@GUCCIFER_2) June 20, 2016,  A month before Wikileaks released any info, Guccifer 2. 0 put up a bunch of documents to prove that he’d really done the hack. #Guccifer2 New docs from #DNC: financial reports, donors’ personal data. Here you are! https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   GUCCIFER 2. 0 (@GUCCIFER_2) June 20, 2016,  Wanna know more about #Guccifer2 ? Send ur questions via DM  you’ll see answers in my bloghttps:  .   —   GUCCIFER 2. 0 (@GUCCIFER_2) June 22, 2016,  FAQ from #Guccifer2 Here u can find answers to the questions  some new docs as a bonushttps:  .  pic. twitter.   —   GUCCIFER 2. 0 (@GUCCIFER_2) June 30, 2016,  Then Guccifer 2. 0 even did an interview going into detail about how they had done the hacking and tried to get some media traction but the media wasn’t biting. Someone from The Hill did a piece, but that was about it. For some strange reason, the establishment press didn’t want to take on the establishment Democrat machine. So then, his Twitter feed tells us, Guccifer 2. 0 made a fateful and wise decision. He went to Wikileaks with the DNC files and the rest is history. Now the world would see for themselves how the Democrats had rigged the game. @wikileaks published #DNCHack docs I’d given them! !! #HillaryClinton #DonaldTrump #BernieSanders #Guccifer2 https:  .   —   GUCCIFER 2. 0 (@GUCCIFER_2) July 22, 2016,  We all know what happened at the Democrat convention  —   the anger, the outrage and the ouster of Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who was promptly hired by Hillary. Hillary and her team were desperate to change the conversation   …     and never forget, her team includes most of the media. Hillary didn’t deny what this new email scandal plainly showed. The story about the rigged Democrat machine wasn’t going to help Hillary and Trump was starting to overtake her in the polls. Clinton and her minions needed SOMETHING. Inspiration stuck: ignore Guccifer 2. 0. The DNC being hacked by one person didn’t look sinister enough. Time for the victim card! Blame the Russians! Blame Putin! Blame Trump! No, it didn’t make any sense. Yes, the evidence about Guccifer 2. 0 was already out there. But it’s good to the be the Queen. Now, common sense would inform most sane people that if Russia were dong what Hillary says they were doing they simply would have gone straight to Wikileaks. However, common sense didn’t fit Hillary’s narrative and so the press went all in with her fable. It’s not shocking that Hillary would try to deflect after the fiasco at the Democrat National Convention. It’s not shocking but it is incredibly dangerous. Let me explain. Remember when the Clinton’s close family friend Anthony Weiner pulled this same exact trick when Andrew Breitbart nailed him for sending a photo of his bulging underwear to a young lady who was not his wife? (And his wife is Hillary Clinton’s top aide,   Huma Abedin, you’ll recall.) Anthony was caught   (double entendre intended) so he played the victim card and found someone else to blame. The Democrats are following the Weiner playbook, trying to cast doubt and lay the blame anywhere they can. They have even announced an FBI investigation. They should save the money for the charade. I just told you about Guccifer 2. 0. Of course, the mainstream media is once again playing along with the Democrat’s blame game, just like they did with Anthony Weiner. Of course. That’s why they didn’t tell you about Guccifer 2. 0. Unfortunately, this time the stakes are much, much higher. You see, what Hillary is doing is downright dangerous. Think about it. While Weiner tried and ultimately failed to cast blame on Andrew Breitbart, Hillary is actually increasing international tensions by blaming a whole COUNTRY in addition to her Presidential rival. How bad could it get? Very, very bad. If I said that Hillary was making a mistake of nuclear proportions, the media haters would accuse me of trying to start World War III. So because I am by nature a shy and humble man not given to brash statements, I won’t say that Hillary seems to be taking us down a road to nuclear confrontation with Russia with her politically motivated shenanigans. Instead, I’ll let an expert say it for me. For the sake of you and your family’s safety, I implore you to take five minutes to listen to the sober, serious words of Professor Stephen Cohen, an acclaimed author and expert who teaches Russian history and politics at York University and Princeton. Professor Cohen has no connection to either the Clinton or Trump campaign, which is why his statement against Hillary and her lapdog media is so throughly blistering. Cohen says that Obama and Clinton have started a new Cold War with Russia. You can see it in places like Syria and the Ukraine. Cohen sees a potential bright spot, one that the media doesn’t want to admit: Then along comes, unexpectedly, Donald Trump who says he wants to end the New Cold War, and cooperate with Russia in various places and  —  astonishingly —   the media is full of what only can be called   charges that he is a Russian agent, that he is a Manchurian candidate, and that he is Putin’s client. Cohen continues, astounded that in an election year the media has completely abdicated on their professional duties. We’re approaching a Cuban Missile Crisis level nuclear confrontation with Russia and there is absolutely no discussion, no debate, about this in the American media. Then the Professor delivers the death blow, pointing out the false narrative that tries to brand Trump a “Russian agent” with Professor Cohen pointing out “most of it is coming from the Clinton campaign. And they really need to stop. ” The media is too busy trying to get Hillary Clinton elected to present the facts to the American people. Due to his lies and deflection, Weiner was forced to publicly apologize. Frankly, with the pickle she’s put America in, Hillary Clinton needs to go a few steps further than that. She’s the least qualified person ever to seek the Presidency and a woman whose political career is due almost entirely to having been married to Bill Clinton. The stakes are just too high for Hillary’s dangerous foolishness. And it really needs to stop.