It was the meeting of the iconoclasts Wednesday, when baseball flamethrower Curt Schilling was joined by Breitbart News Technology Editor Milo Yiannopoulos on Wednesday’s episode of Schilling’s new talk show Whatever It Takes. [“Welcome to the family,” Yiannopoulos told the     who hosts his online show at Breibart. com weekdays from 9 a. m. to 11 a. m.  Schilling told Yiannopoulos that when it was announced that he was joining Breitbart News, the blowback from the Left was outrageous. The media made it out like one hateful man was joining a tribe of other hateful men, which is completely wrong, he said. “I did not learn about the   until I played minor league baseball,” Schilling said. “But people who haven’t met me —  the media has made me out to be   homophobic, transphobic, racist, xenophobic —  whatever,” It has basically come to pass that the media labels him exactly the opposite of what he really is, the pitcher said. In the end, Schilling said he always remembers being booed in Yankee Stadium as a member of the Boston Red Sox. “Yankees fans don’t boo people who suck. ” “People say things about Breitbart, but mostly they haven’t read the site,” said the man in the midst of his national “Dangerous Faggot” tour. “You wouldn’t imagine that the standard bearer website for the Tea Party would be a home to a flamboyantly homosexual Brit, who goes around college campuses triggering students. ” Listen to the conversation here: Included on the tour is a Nov. 1 stop at Dartmouth College, where Milo’s address will be: “In Defense of Hazing. ” Yiannopoulos told Schilling one of his regrets is not going to college in the United States because he missed out on the   culture of American fraternities. The technology journalist told Schilling that the days of political correctness are numbered. Old PC tricks do not work anymore, said the host of his own Breitbart podcast: The Milo Yiannopoulos Show. It is now considered normal for both Black Lives Matter activists and the KKK to call for segregation by race, he said. Another example of things changing is that in the last British election, 50 percent of gay men voted for the Conservative Party, he said. “The press reported this reluctantly and confused,” Yiannopoulos said. “They didn’t understand how gays could be so ungrateful. ” Actually, what happened is that once gays had secured their rights, they were free to vote based on taxes and other issues, like everybody else —  and when people are freed from the filters of social justice warfare, they are more likely to vote for the conservative. “They’re looking to vote based on facts, not feelings and pandering and mollycoddling,” he said. You can hear Whatever It Takes weekdays from 9 a. m. to 11 a. m. online at Breitbart. com. Join the show as a caller: (877)  