MILO called out Daniel Brewster, a West Virginia University professor during his talk at the college on Thursday, criticizing the professor for allegedly purposely holding a “multicultural LGBTQ event” at the same time as his and offering extra credit to students who attended.[  After listing all of the things he enjoys about West Virginia University, Milo declared that “There is one thing about this college however that I have got to tell you I’m not so fond of  …     and his name is Daniel Brewster. ” “I understand he has a bit of a reputation on campus. Now, Professor Brewster teaches sociology, which comes in just above gender studies in my “burger flipping majors” ranking  —   not very far above. Anything ending in studies is guaranteed to be a pile of fucking horseshit” joked Milo. “I hear he’s fond of bullying conservative students. Has anyone been in a class with this guy?” An array of students shot their hands up, as one student was given the microphone, claiming that Professor Brewster said he’d give an “F” grade to students who didn’t agree with him. “Well, Mr. Hamburger I am pleased to tell, does not represent the totality of homosexuals” MILO continued. “This guy has put on some fucking awful LGBTQ event across campus  …     and has announced that if you show up to that instead of this, you’ll get extra credit. He’s bribing students with better grades not to show up and listen to conservative opinions because he doesn’t like the speaker. ” “These people are professors. These people teach you  …     How much are you guys paying to be here?” added MILO. “Now his Twitter profile says: ‘I welcome the fact that students feel safer knowing that I will be an advocate for them and that I am willing to fight for their rights and their inclusion’. This is therapy culture. This isn’t education. This is someone whose primary goal is to make you feel good about yourself, however awful you are. ” “He’s here to punish you for having the wrong political opinions and to eat cake” he concluded. “He is the personification, to be serious at the moment, of this cancer that is eating away at universities. Preaching tolerance in public and practicing censorship in private. ” “Mr. Brewster aside  …     I am very impressed with this university  …     If I ever found a center for men’s studies, I shall put you on my list. ” As MILO exited the stage, Brewster set his Twitter account to private, blocking it from public view.  Watch the full event below.  Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.