On Thursday, conservative news giant Breitbart News announced the launch of its official “We Are Breitbart” Instagram page. [“We are currently ranked #1 in the world on Facebook for politics, beating #2 Huffington Post by over two million engagements,” said Breitbart News Managing Editor and Social Media Director Wynton Hall. “Now, we’re providing our 31 million monthly readers with a new social media weapon to share and promote the stories and ideas that matter most. ”  News of the official “We are Breitbart” Instagram page comes as Breitbart shattered company traffic records in July, generating 192 million pageviews, 31 million unique visitors, and 89 million sessions. Last month’s metrics rocketed Breitbart to over one billion pageviews in just the first seven months of 2016 —  a 28% jump in 30 days from last month’s previous record high. The “We are Breitbart” Instagram page will feature the kinds of original,   memes and videos that have generated massive social media virality on Breitbart’s other social media platforms, like Twitter and Facebook. A photo posted by Breitbart (@wearebreitbart) on Jul 13, 2016 at 6:02pm PDT,  A photo posted by Breitbart (@wearebreitbart) on Jul 5, 2016 at 9:11am PDT,  The goal, says Breitbart News    Alexander Marlow, is giving Breitbart readers digital “ammunition” to blast across an array of social media platforms. “Conservatives often ask, ‘How can I help break Establishment Media’s stranglehold and get the truth to Americans who need it? ’” says Marlow. “The answer is simple and powerful: follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and now Instagram and share and blast the digital ‘bullets’ we provide for you far and wide. It works —  and Establishment media are taking notice. ” Indeed, social media industry analysts and trend trackers have noted Breitbart’s meteoric rise on social media. Despite Facebook’s conservative media suppression scandal, Breitbart has remained in the top 20 highest engagement Facebook pages for 12 months in a row. Breibart CEO and President Larry Solov says the media company’s expansion into Instagram is in keeping with founder Andrew Breitbart’s famous dictum that “politics is downstream from culture. ” “Andrew understood that entertainment and art drive politics, not the other way around,” said Solov. “We view a   medium like Instagram as a gathering place where visual culture can influence political culture. ” At its core, Breitbart’s foray into Instagram is all about forging deeper bonds among the 31 million members of Breitbart’s vast digital community, says Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon. “When we say we’re passionate about building a strong and deeply rooted community, we mean it,” said Bannon. “Our readers are smart and savvy: they understand that every time they share, like, or comment they are weaponizing and amplifying the     message. ” To follow the official “We Are Breitbart” Instagram page, click on this link and click “follow. ”