Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said she is “horrified” by Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s “rhetoric” and his “demagoguery. ”  Partial transcript as follows: TODD: Secretary Clinton, is that an ad  —   have you moved on? Are we going to view this ad as the fist one of the general election? It’s pretty clear you’re targeting Donald Trump. CLINTON: Well, certainly I haven’t moved on. I know that I still have work to do to win the nomination. And I’m going to keep reaching out to every voter everywhere in these remaining contests. But I also think it’s important to draw some pretty clear lines between what I think most Americans and certainly what I know most New Yorkers believe about who we are as a people, what the values of our country are against some of what we’re hearing from the other side. And, you know, it’s both Donald Trump as we are well aware, but also Ted Cruz. I know he made a critical comment about New York values some months back. So I want to really hold up the importance of New York and what we stand for. And, you know, we are a state that represents the diversity of America, the role that immigrants have played over the centuries in building our nation. And the Statue of Liberty stands in the harbor. So I wanted to start out with a very clear message about our values and why I think it’s important we stand up for them. TODD: And in that ad though, you do include footage, that awful footage, of a Trump supporter cold knocking essentially a protester at his rally. Why amplify that image? CLINTON: Because I was horrified by it, Chuck. And I think most Americans were horrified by it. When you, as I’ve said before about Donald Trump’s appearances, his rhetoric, his demagoguery when you incite violence you are acting like a political arsonist. I want people to understand there’s a very different way of working toward our common ground that we have to seek and find in order to move our country forward. We may have differences, of course we do. But we don’t condone violence. We don’t say we’ll pay the legal fees of people who punch other Americans who are protesting, attending an event, that is just not appropriate behavior when you’re running for president. Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN