Peter Schweizer tells National Review that Julian Assange’s promise of more Hillary Clinton leaks could mean emails about the Clinton Foundation deleted from her private email server. [From National Review:  Team Hillary is well aware that Assange’s WikiLeaks probably has other surprises in store for the fall campaign. During a June 12 interview with Britain’s ITV, Assange was asked if had any undisclosed  . He responded: We have upcoming leaks in relation to Hillary Clinton, which is great, WikiLeaks has a very big year ahead. We have   related to Hillary Clinton which are pending publication, that is correct. He then went on to predict  —   correctly  —   that Loretta Lynch would not indict Hillary over her breaches of national security: Unfortunately, I think what’s going to happen is that the FBI is going to go “We have accumulated a lot of material about Hillary Clinton, we could proceed to an indictment. . . .  [But] she’s not going to indict Hillary Clinton. Assange strongly hinted that other   releases were coming, and sources close to him say they will go beyond the DNC  . Assange himself says he wants to stop Hillary because she is, in his view, a liberal “war hawk” He claims that “a vote today for Hillary Clinton is a vote for endless, stupid war. ” He then followed up by saying: “Hillary didn’t just vote for Iraq. She made her own Iraq. Libya is Hillary’s Iraq and if she becomes president, she will make more. ” Speculation in the Hillary camp about what could be in future releases from WikiLeaks center around her association with the Clinton Foundation. Peter Schweizer, the author of Clinton Cash, told me: “The activities of Hillary Clinton during her time as secretary of state intersect with the   of the Clinton Foundation. It is strange that so few of her publicly released   touch on the Clinton Foundation. Maybe the private ones do. ” The FBI recovered many of the deleted   from Hillary’s server, and those are part of its ongoing probe into the Clinton Foundation. Read the rest of the story here.