BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   For Syrians who have withstood years of unbridled assault and deprivation by the forces of President Bashar   the American missile strike on a military airfield served as a   adrenaline shot of vengeful satisfaction, tinged with cynicism and fear. Residents in the city of Homs, near Al Shayrat airfield, which was hit with dozens of   Tomahawk missiles in the predawn hours on Friday local time, praised the strike. So did residents of the northern   town of Khan Sheikhoun, the site of a deadly attack on Tuesday that used what was probably the nerve agent sarin  —   an attack the United States said had been carried out by Syrian warplanes from the airfield. “We will not kneel! We will not kneel!” dozens of marchers in Khan Sheikhoun shouted in a video that activists posted on Facebook. Small children later joined the protesters, and the group was filmed standing silently in a circle, carrying pictures of the victims of the attack. The smell from the chemical assault lingered in the air in parts of Khan Sheikhoun on Friday, residents there said via telephone, Skype and internet messaging. Some praised President Trump, contrasting him favorably with President Barack Obama, who studiously avoided using military force against Mr. Assad in Syria despite his famous “red line,” which was crossed by the first big chemical weapons assault there nearly four years ago. “The people here were suffocated by sarin, Trump came and vented the anger,” Abdul Wahab   a member of the Khan Sheikhoun local council, said in a message posted via WhatsApp. “It’s the best news I’ve heard in the past few days, it’s a revenge for the martyrs’ blood,” he wrote. “We’re feeling some relief now. In the past, Obama used to say only words Trump said and acted. ” At the same time, he said, many residents were still hiding in shelters, fearful that Mr. Assad’s forces would send their own message of defiance with another attack on the town. Othman   an   activist from Khan Sheikhoun, said Mr. Trump “finally broke the longstanding silence of the Obama administration” on American entanglement in the Syrian conflict. “This response is good in a way, but we can’t say that it is enough,” he said. Some in Khan Sheikhoun were cynical, saying Mr. Assad’s behavior would not change. “We were all happy until they said that America gave Russia notice. That means that they probably emptied the airport of all the working planes,” said Refaat Youssef, who lost 26 relatives in the chemical attack. “This is a tranquilizer shot. If you really want to put an end to the suffering, hit all the airports. ” The official Syrian news agency’s account of the missile strike called it a “blatant act of aggression” by the United States that killed nine civilians, including four children, and caused “huge material damage. ” Russian news footage of the aftermath, posted on YouTube, showed damage to some reinforced hangars at Al Shayrat, but the runways appeared intact. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a monitoring group, reported later on Friday that two Sukhoi warplanes had been seen taking off from the base. The extent of damage could not be independently verified, but   activists felt some vindication regardless. “Homs is more beautiful without the airport of death,” Osama Mohammed Ali, a resident of a besieged area near Homs, said in a posted message. He urged the United States to launch “Tomahawks on all the airports of death, the airports of killing and extermination and displacement in Syria. ” Mohamed Khaldiyeh, an   activist who lives near the airfield, said residents had often awakened to audio alerts about impending takeoffs of warplanes on bombing missions. “This base was the main reason of the huge destruction in Homs and the displacements of our families,” he said, and on Friday, people “woke up to the news of its destruction. ” “Praise God,” he added. Syrians in other besieged parts of the country, learning about the American airstrike, reacted with a mix of gratification and worry. “The hit on Bashar   should have happened three years ago, from the beginning, when Bashar   used chemical weapons,” said Hala Abdulwahab, a teacher in Madaya, a besieged city. “Children are choking and dying. Entire families are dying. ” Wissam Zarqa, an English teacher from the northern city of Aleppo who now lives in Idlib Province, called the missile strike a positive step. But like others in Syria and elsewhere, he questioned whether it signaled the beginning of a stronger American military strategy in Syria. “One killing tool was targeted, which is good,” he said. “We hope more steps would follow to punish Assad for all attacks against civilians, whether chemical or not. ” Malek Al Shimali, an   activist displaced from his home in Aleppo a few months ago and now staying in Turkey, expressed mixed feelings about the missile strike. “I feel the ecstasy of revenge now,” he said in a Facebook message. But he added, “I don’t feel the strike will change anything  —   unless Bashar left, nothing will change. ”