For Najairee Davis, high school was synonymous with bouts of anger and frustration. She had the hallway fights, suspensions and detention to prove it. Early in Ms. Davis’s high school career, her father was incarcerated on manslaughter charges. “I was just angry,” Ms. Davis, 18, recalled. “I wouldn’t talk to anybody. I wasn’t feeling good about anything. ” Academics were no longer a priority she shut everyone out. And if pressed on anything, she said, she would pick fights with classmates. Ms. Davis got a bad reputation at school, and said it was not long before teachers simply assumed she was to blame for any confrontation. Everyone else went unpunished, she said. Her principal at Frederick Douglass Academy in West Harlem suggested she might benefit from transferring to a different school, one designed for students who struggle in more traditional education settings. Her boyfriend had attended such a school, and compared the experience to being surrounded by a supportive family. “A family at school?” she recalled telling her boyfriend. “I’m not really into people that much. ” But in September 2015, Ms. Davis took a chance and enrolled at the Brooklyn High School for Leadership and Community Service, a transfer school for students who are falling short of the credits they need to graduate. The school is a joint venture between New York City’s Education Department and Brooklyn Community Services, one of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund’s eight beneficiary organizations. “I just felt like I wasn’t that excited about school anymore,” Ms. Davis said. “It wasn’t exciting to me anymore, until I came to Leadership. ” At her new school, she received support from teachers who were compassionate and understanding and knew every student by name. She was also assigned an advocate counselor, who was on call to help with problems Ms. Davis had outside school. It became clear, she said, that Leadership was going to be a different kind of place to learn. “I have to do better,” Ms. Davis said. “It can’t be like my old school. It has to be different. ” Her classmates became friends, not targets of fights. After she became pregnant last year and the pregnancy started to show, teachers and students did not judge her as she walked the halls, she said. Instead, they fawned over her baby bump and wanted to know about her baby shower. Ms. Davis gave birth to her son, Kyree Cooper, in July. “There’s not one day he doesn’t make me happy,” she said. Recently, she moved out of a home in Brownsville, Brooklyn, where she had lived with the grandmother who raised her. She moved in with Kyree’s father and grandfather. It was important that Ms. Davis’s grandmother not feel pressure to raise Kyree, she said. Ms. Davis earns money through a   internship with Educational Video Center, a program run by the Leadership school. “I don’t want to be depending on anyone,” she said. “Even if it isn’t the most money in the world, I want to get things for myself that I purchased with my   money. ” Brooklyn Community Services has continued to help. Recently, it used $300 in Neediest Cases funds to buy winter clothing for Ms. Davis and Kyree. Ms. Davis is on track to graduate by March. And she has fixed her sights on a career as an ultrasound technician. “After becoming pregnant, I felt that job was a good job,” she said. “I can be part of other people’s milestones, see their baby’s heartbeat for the first time. ” Newfound independence has so far proved more liberating than frightening. Even with the pitfalls of parenting she knows she will encounter, she said, she is determined to evolve and improve with each challenge she surmounts. “I just want to experience stuff on my own,” Ms. Davis said. “I want to make mistakes on my own. I know how it is having a parent saying, ‘That’s not how you do it.’ I want to learn that’s not how you do it. I want to try new things and be different. ” About her son, she said, “I want to raise him the way I want to raise him. ”