A Democrat Texas congressman told Donald Trump to take the border wall and “shove it up your ass. ”[“Mr. Trump, you’re a racist and you can take your border wall and shove it up your ass,” Congressman Filemon Vela ( ) wrote in an open letter to Mr. Trump Monday morning. The comment comes at the end of a lengthy litany of complaints against the presumptive GOP nominee written from his campaign office obtained by Breitbart Texas and attached below.  Filemon represents the southeastern most district of Texas that includes the border community of Brownsville, just across the river from Matamoros, Mexico, the scene of a violent civil war between members of the Gulf Cartel fighting for control of the region. Breitbart Texas has reported extensively about the violence in this area. A spokesman for the Vela campaign told Breitbart Texas, “We are getting a lot of interest about ‘The Letter. ’” He begins the letter with areas where he agrees with Trump  —   Veterans issues, cartel violence and corruption in the Mexican government, and criminal illegal alien felons who “should be immediately deported. ” He says there are even other areas upon which he would agree. However, your ignorant   opinions, your border wall rhetoric, and your recent bigoted attack on an American jurist are just plain despicable. The letter, written in English and Spanish, delves into the history of Americans of Mexican descent and says Trump mistakenly refers to them as “Mexicans. ” He says many of them have valiantly served the United States in every conflict since the Civil War. He then goes on to list some Hispanic Medal of Honor recipients. The letter appears to be a response to Trumps comments about the judge in the Trump University trial, Judge Gonzalo Curiel. Breitbart News’ Joel Pollak reported on the May rally in San Diego where Trump said, “I have a judge who is a hater of Donald Trump, a hater. He’s a hater. His name is Gonzalo Curiel. ” He also noted that the judge “happens to be, we believe, Mexican, which is great, I think that’s fine. ” You have now descended to a new low in your racist attack of an American jurist, U. S. District Court Judge Gonzalo Curiel, by calling him a “Mexican” simply because he ruled against you in a case in which you are being accused of fraud, among other accusations. Judge Curiel is one of 124 Americans of Hispanic descent who have served this country with honor and distinction as federal district judges. Acknowledging his own coarse language in the letter’s closing, Vela wrote, “I would like to end this letter in a more diplomatic fashion, but I think that you, of all people, understand why I cannot. ” The congressman, who represents the people of Brownsville, along the Texas border with Mexico then said, “I am sure that many of these individuals would agree with me when I say: ‘Mr. Trump, you’re a racist and you can take your border wall and shove it up your ass. ’” Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas and is a member of the original Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX. For Immediate Release  —   Vela Letter to Trump, 