Pop star Sia and Ghostbusters actress Leslie Jones will headline a free concert in Cleveland in September organized by the abortion industry and its supporters. [The All Access Coalition, which is organizing the event, says its mission is to “make abortion access a reality across all communities. ”  Sia, Leslie Jones, and Jessica Williams  —   the lineup for the #AllAccess is    https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Hannah   (@grouchybagels) August 8, 2016,  “All Access is such an inclusive group that I’m proud to be a part of this,” said Sia, whose “Cheap Thrills” is No. 1 on Billboard‘s Hot 100. “We all need to stand together and be a part of creating the future we hope to see. There is so much support out there for an inclusive, equitable society that it’s time we showed our collective power. ” Sia’s headlining All Access @ the Wolstein Center in Cleveland  ! Celebrate feminism  get free tix on https:  .    Sia,  —   sia (@Sia) August 8, 2016,  The coalition is comprised of the ACLU, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, The Center for Reproductive Rights, NARAL   America Foundation, Unite for Reproductive  Gender Equity, Whole Woman’s Health, and others  —   has planned the event that will take place on September 10 at Cleveland State University’s Wolstein Center. Other events will occur simultaneously in Atlanta, Chicago, Miami, and Philadelphia, reports Billboard. On its website, All Access repeats the common narrative of the abortion industry, that abortion is “women’s healthcare”: People across America face unfair challenges, restrictions and obstacles in accessing their reproductive rights. All Access galvanizes the commonsense majority that believes all individuals should be able to access the care they need, when they need it. Together, we can make abortion access a reality across all communities. Hear some of our stories. The idea that a “commonsense majority” favors abortion is a stretch. A recent Marist poll showed an overwhelming consensus among Americans who want significant restrictions placed on abortion  —   even among those Americans who say they are “ . ” The poll of 1, 700 Americans found only 12 percent of participants said abortion should be “available to a woman any time during her pregnancy. ” The survey was commissioned by Catholic charitable organization Knights of Columbus. According to the survey, 81 percent of Americans favor some kind of restriction, including limits on abortion after the first three months, and a ban on public funding of abortion. In addition to Sia, the Cleveland concert will feature Latin artist Natalia Lafourcade and Comedy Central’s former Daily Show correspondent Jessica Williams.