Two Texas police were shot while responding to a call about a suicide in Fort Worth, Texas. The man who fired on the police officers was killed when the officers returned fire. [Fort Worth Police Officers Xavier Serrano and Ray Azucena responded to a call Friday night about a suicide. Officers had previously been called to this home on multiple occasions for domestic disputes. When the officers arrived they found a man inside the house who was “unresponsive from a gunshot wound,” NCBDFW reported. The officers were told a man who witnessed the shooting was outside in a shed.  The officers approached the shed and a person inside the structure opened fire, striking Serrano and Azucena, Fort Worth Police Spokesman, Sergeant Marc Povero told reporters during a   press conference. The officers were able to return fire on the suspect. Officer Serrano was struck several times in his upper body area. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he underwent surgery. He is listed in stable condition as of this report. His partner, Officer Azucena, was struck by gunfire one time. The bullet did not penetrate his vest and he remained at the scene. SWAT officers were called to the scene and fired tear gas canisters towards the shed. After no response came from the shed the officers entered the shed and found the suspect already deceased. It is not known if the person was killed by police gunfire or a   wound. His identity has not yet been released. Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump arrived in Texas shortly after the shooting. Trump tweeted a message of support to the officers. Just arrived in Texas  —   have been informed two @fortworthpd officers have been shot. My thoughts and prayers are with them.  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 17, 2016,  Trump is in Houston on Saturday for a speech to the families of people who have been killed by illegal immigrants. His speech at the Remembrance Project meeting in Houston will be made on Saturday afternoon. Reporters in Fort Worth were addressed by Police Chief Joel Fitzgerald and Mayor Betsy Price. The Fort Worth Police Department tweeted a message thanking the public for their support. We appreciate all the   for our officers. Thank you.  —   Fort Worth Police (@fortworthpd) September 17, 2016,  WFAA ABC8 in the Dallas metroplex reported that officers had been called to the residence multiple times for domestic disputes between a father and son. The father had previously been arrested following a New Year’s Eve incident when officers discovered he had an outstanding warrant. The deceased person inside the home was described as an elderly man. Sgt. Povero told the ABC affiliate that Serrano was “awake, talking to his family, obviously in some pain. Under the circumstances, he’s very fortunate. We’re thankful he’s alive. ” He said Azucena’s life was saved by his protective vest. “He is in good spirits. He has some pain to his chest where a  bullet struck his ballistic vest, but he’s in good spirits with his family,” Povero told reporters. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX.