Saturday at CBS’s Republican presidential debate, Donald Trump said his opponent Sen. Ted Cruz ( ) is the “single biggest liar,” when Cruz said Trump “supports federal taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. ”  Partial transcript as follows: CRUZ: You know, flexibility is a good thing, but it shouldn’t —   you shouldn’t be flexible on core principles. I like Donald. He is an amazing entertainer. But his policies for most of his life.. TRUMP: Thank you very much, I appreciate it. CRUZ: For most of his life, his policies have been very, very liberal. For most of his life he has described himself as very   and a a supporter of   abortion. Right now, today, as a candidate, he supports federal taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. I disagree with him on that. That is a matter of principle. TRUMP: You are the single biggest liar. You are probably worse than Jeb Bush. You are the single biggest liar. This guy lied —   let me just tell you. This guy lied about Ben Carson when he took votes away from Ben Carson in Iowa. And he just continues. And today, we had   saying, ‘Donald Trump is not going to run in South Carolina,’ where I’m leading by a lot. I’m not going to run. ‘Vote for Ted Cruz.’ This is the same thing he did to Ben Carson. This guy will say anything. Nasty guy. Now I know why he doesn’t have one endorsement from any of his colleagues  …    He’s a nasty guy. CRUZ:  I will say it is fairly remarkable to see Donald defending Ben after he called him pathological and compared him to a child molester, both of which were offensive and wrong. TRUMP: I just quoted his book. CRUZ: Donald didn’t disagree with the substance that he supports taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. And Donald has this weird pattern —   when you point to his own record he screams liar, liar, liar. TRUMP: Where did I support it? Where did I support it. CRUZ: If you want to go and watch the video. TRUMP: Hey, Ted, where did I support it? Don’t tell me about a video. CRUZ: Out of his own mouth —   you supported when we were battling over defunding Planned Parenthood. TRUMP: That’s a lot of nonsense. CRUZ: You said Planned  Parenthood does wonderful things —   TRUMP: It does do wonderful things but not as it relates relates to abortions. Excuse me. There are wonderful things having to do with women’s health. CRUZ:  You and I disagree on that. TRUMP: Not when it comes to abortion. Not when it comes to abortion. That’s where I draw the line. CRUZ: The reason principle matters, sadly, was illustrated by the first questions today. The next president is going appoint one, two, three, four Supreme Court justices. If Donald Trump is president, he will appoint liberals. Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN