After Beyoncé’s controversial halftime performance at Super Bown 50, the scantily clad, Black    dancers posed with a sign that read “Justice 4 Mario Woods. ”[The black stabbing victim of the man glorified by Knowles and her backup dancers has expressed frustration that he has been forgotten while his attacker has been lauded.  Woods died after being shot while advancing on police officers with a knife in early December. The case is one more example of how the culture warriors of the Black Lives Matter era have made heroes out of hoodlums, villianized the police, and left the victims of crime suffering in the shadows. While Knowles’s Black Panther imagery captured the headlines and brought the ire of people like former New York city Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, it’s her direct and unambiguous support for Woods that deserves highlighting. As entertainment news site TMZ reported: Beyonce put the spotlight on the killing of Mario Woods   …     and no one’s more grateful than Mario’s mother. Adante Pointer, an attorney for the Woods’ family, tells us Mario’s mother, Gwen, loved Beyonce’s halftime performance, especially the show of support for her late son. We’re told Gwen had no clue Bey was going to reference Mario. She’s glad to know celebrities feel a connection to Mario, spreading the message to millions, But nobody was holding signs for Mario Woods’s victims. In 2009, Woods was added to a civil gang injunction for engaging in a “alarming pattern” of violence as part of a criminal street gang that that was terrorizing San Francisco’s Hunters Point neighborhood. as a press release from the city attorney San Francisco described at that time: Mario Woods (born July 22, 1989) is an active member of Oakdale Mob whose gang related activities include armed robbery and attempted armed robbery shooting incidents weapons possession offenses and driving a stolen car according to police evidence. Woods was also involved in an automobile injury accident that occurred while fleeing from police. In 2008, Woods pled guilty to possession of a firearm by a felon. In 2012, after spending nearly 3 years in county jail, he was sentenced to seven years in state prison. On December 2, 2015, Woods violently attacked a stranger —  a black man who was 26 years old, the same age as Mario Woods.. That man was interviewed by San Francisco’s ABC7 New on February 4th, just days before Beyoncé Knowles Super Bowl spectacle that would give Woods a national spotlight. The stabbing victim was so afraid of repercussions from the community that he did not use his real name for the interview. ABC7 refers to him as Jacob, Jacob told ABC7 News he had never met Mario Woods. He says he was sitting in a car chilling with two female friends and one of their children at Third Street and Laconte Avenue. A stranger outside seemed like he was on drugs. “He looked like he was agitated about something and paranoid,” Jacob said. “Mario started walking back and forth, started yelling stuff to us. He tries to open my car door and out of defense I already knew he had a knife on him. After a few blows were exchanged between him and me, I got stabbed in the arm. ” However, the effort to make a hero out of Woods didn’t start with Beyoncé. Black Lives Matter (BLM) activists and craven leftist politicians have made him a cause célèbre. BLM took to the streets, and activists interrupted the inauguration of San Francisco mayor Ed Lee in January. as the  San Francisco Chronicle reported at the time:   …    protesters turned the   ceremony on Friday into a cacophony of boos and shouted demands that Police Chief Greg Suhr be fired. The protesters, most of them angry about last month’s fatal police shooting of Mario Woods in the Bayview, were so loud that when it came time for Lee to be sworn in by Gov. Jerry Brown, both men had to raise their own voices  —   nearly yelling  —   to be heard over the chants and boos in the City Hall rotunda. The left’s response was both appalling and predictable the city government in San Francisco has actually set aside July 26 to honor Woods. By a unanimous vote, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors voted to approve “Mario Woods Remembrance Day. ” Supervisor David Campos said, ”The recognition is not about Mario Woods the individual, but the need for police reform,” according to ABC 7. But as the San Francisco Police Officers Association noted, in a message on Facebook, the commemoration of Mario Woods was yet another volley in politicians’ war on cops : Supervisor David Campos, who has demonstrated over the years, as both a Police Commissioner and a member of the Board of Supervisors, his disdain for public safety officers and members of the SFPD has now introduced an insulting resolution. Mr. Campos and the majority of his colleagues on the Board of Supervisors are seeking a “Day of Remembrance” for a convicted felon, validated gang member, who allegedly attempted to murder an innocent victim in the Bayview. Those who have died a violent death, in the line of duty, within the SFPD and the SFFD serving this City have never received such acknowledgment and it is a travesty that certain public officials would glorify anyone who preys on the most vulnerable in our community. There is no day of remembrance or Super Bowl spotlight for Mario Woods’s last victim. As ABC7 reported: Jacob’s life has been in shambles. He’s afraid some people may want to harm him because the stabbing led to Woods’ death. “My arm may never be the same again. You know, I have nerve damage and all kinds of stuff. I have anxiety attacks,” Jacob said. Jacobs says he is the forgotten victim, the victim protesters have forgotten. “I acknowledge what they’re doing trying to get justice and everything, but at the same time you have to realize there are victims of black on black crimes that I don’t feel they acknowledge,” Jacob said. What also disturbs him, the Day of Remembrance that the Supervisors passed for Mario Woods. “I’m looking at this, I’m a victim of this whole situation and I haven’t heard anything from the supervisors even acknowledging the fact that you know, whatever happened,” he said. The Black Lives Matter playbook has not been to merely point out cases of police access or brutality, but to   information to turn hoodlums into heroes. In cases from Mike Brown in Ferguson to Jamar Clark in Minneapolis to Mario Woods in San Francisco, the   rhetoric has been bolstered at every point by Democrat politicians, right up to the president of the United States. While cultural forces like the mainstream media and the entertainment industry have reinforced the lies of Black Lives Matter, he common sense support of law and order has been flipped upside down by the racial policies of the Obama administration, the radical street activists of Black Lives Matter, and the critical race theorists at American universities across the country. Meanwhile, the people suffer from double standards for criminals and victims, and from crime itself. Americans watching the Super Bowl didn’t need another racist political fable shoved in their faces, no matter how successful a marketing move it was for Beyoncé Knowles.