What was supposed to be a holiday weekend box office battle between two   tentpoles quickly flamed out as two studio films flopped, a   horror movie did better than expected and Finding Dory looked for its third straight win over the sluggish July 4 frame. [Warner Bros.  Roadshow’s The Legend of Tarzan did slightly better than expected with a $38. 1 million   total and an estimated $ $44 million for the full holiday weekend, according to Deadline. That’s somewhat better than the  $30 million range the David   film had been expected to do, but with a budget of $180 million before marketing costs, the film needs to pick up serious slack overseas if Warners and its financing partners are going to break even. Tarzan sits at just 35% on ratings aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, but moviegoers liked it better, giving it an   CinemaScore.  Meanwhile, Steven Spielberg’s The BFG bombed spectacularly, taking in an estimated $19. 6 million over three days and $23. 6 million for the   extended frame. That’s an awful result for Disney and Amblin Partners, which put up $140 million to make the film before marketing costs. It’s not exactly clear what went wrong with BFG, as it boasts an   director in Spielberg and a rich story in an adaptation of one of Roald Dahl’s beloved children’s books. Whatever the reason, The BFG is now one of Spielberg’s most disappointing openings to date. What must make the result extra grating for Disney is that moviegoers and critics both gave the film positive marks. It wasn’t all bad news at the July 4 box office, though, as    Dunes’ The Purge: Election Year bested its modest expectations with an estimated $34 million over the   weekend. This is the third consecutive victory in the franchise for Blumhouse, a production company which specializes in   films and spent just $10 million on Election Year. The film stars Elizabeth Mitchell as a U. S. senator who wants to eliminate the annual “purge night,” when all crime becomes legal for 12 hours. James DeMonaco returned to direct the third installment. Nothing could catch up to  ’s Finding Dory, which is expected to top the box office for a third straight week with a $41. 9 million   and a $50. 5 million   take. According to Deadline, the film is on track to overtake Toy Story 3 as the   domestic film in Pixar history next week. As for the holdovers, Independence Day: Resurgence continued its flameout with a 60% drop for an estimated $20. 1 million   to land in fifth place Dwayne     Central Intelligence dipped 32% to come in sixth with a $15 million   and Sony’s   shark thriller The Shallows snagged seventh with an estimated $10. 7 million over the   weekend, bringing its   total to $37 million, an impressive result for a film that cost just $17 million to make. Free State of Jones, The Conjuring 2 and Now You See Me 2 are expected to round out the weekend’s top ten.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum