Donald Trump’s latest bombshell, claiming the Bush administration lied about weapons of mass destruction to get us into the Iraq War, is just him doing wheelies on the way to the nomination. He’s apparently decided it would be fun to taunt the entire GOP by demonstrating that he can say anything and his voters won’t care. [I wish he’d stop showing off, the little scamp, but maybe the GOP establishment will finally get the message that voters have been waiting a really long time for a candidate who would put Americans first. Not donors, not plutocrats, not foreigners, and certainly not foreign plutocrats (i. e. Fox News).  Trump is the first presidential candidate in 50 years who might conceivably: (1) deport illegal aliens, (2) build a wall, (3) block Muslim immigration, (4) flout political correctness, (5) bring manufacturing home, and (6) end the GOP’s neurotic compulsion to start wars in some godforsaken part of the world. That’s all that matters! Are you listening yet, RNC? There is not another candidate who agrees with Trump on all these positions. Maybe one issue, but not all of them  —   and if it’s immigration, they would be lying. Even Ted Cruz still refuses to say he’d deport illegal aliens (unless they’re arrested for breaking some other law) build a wall (instead he talks about “border security,” which is code for: No Wall) or reduce legal immigration at all. Trump is like a   album. The two political parties are the record companies, refusing to put all the hits on one album and instead forcing us to choose between Republicans who will depress wages through immigration and bad trade deals, or Democrats who pretend to care about   Americans while sacralizing abortion and gay marriage. Trump is right about President Bush not keeping us safe  —   though not about his “Bush lied” argument that makes me want to strangle him. This is what Trump said last October on “Coyote News Sunday” (FNC) about how things would have been different on   under President Trump: “Well, I would have been much different, I must tell you.   …     I am extremely, extremely tough on illegal immigration. I’m extremely tough on people coming into this country. I believe that if I were running things, I doubt   …     that those people would have been in the country. ” And that was before Trump announced his plan for a temporary ban on Muslim immigration! (By contrast, as governor of Florida, Jeb! aggressively pushed a bill to allow illegal aliens to get driver’s licenses, less than three years AFTER 13 of 19 hijackers used Florida driver’s licenses to board the planes on  .) It is apparently considered less controversial to send a million troops to the Middle East than to stop printing visas for   terrorists. It’s not just George W. Bush’s   policy that cries out for  . During a debate with Al Gore one year before the   attack  —   committed by Arabs on U. S. commercial airlines  —   he   denounced the racial profiling of Arabs by airport security. The Wall Street Journal proclaimed that “the ‘racial profiling’ issue might help Bush win Michigan. ” (Good call, WSJ! Bush lost Michigan, anyway.) In June 2001  —   three months before the attack committed by Arabs on U. S. commercial airlines  —   the Bush administration undertook a study to ensure that Arabs were not being disproportionately stopped by airport security. When U. S. Airways ticket agent Michael Tuohey laid eyes on Mohamed Atta on the morning of   he got a “chill” and thought to himself, “If this guy doesn’t look like an Arab terrorist, then nothing does. ” But then, he says, he gave himself a politically correct “slap,” and handed Atta his ticket. Atta proceeded to murder 3, 000 Americans. But at least no undue scrutiny of Arabs was taking place at U. S. Airports! The Marco Rubios, Nikki Haleys, Paul Ryans, Jeb! Zeppo and Shemp Bushes of the GOP say: “Vote for me  —   we may have a terrorist attack, but at least we’ll know we did the right thing!” Trump says: “I’m going to protect you. ” That’s why it doesn’t matter when Trump pops off and says things that are not conservative orthodoxy  —   or even true! Even if you think Trump is a libertine, shallow narcissist, you know he will do what no other Republican will: Go to Washington, kick ass, mock political correctness, build a wall, deport illegals, bring manufacturing home, and end the GOP’s peculiar fixation with remaking the Muslim world. This is our last chance. It’s similar to the “point of no return” global warming alarmists keep talking about, except our data isn’t fake. At our current rate of   if we don’t break the donor fever grip now, we never will. This kind of correction isn’t just a     opportunity, it’s a     opportunity. The GOP didn’t hear us with Eric Cantor, with the 2014 election or with John Boehner. After all that, they still gave us Nikki Haley and Paul Ryan. President Trump is the last and only message they will understand. COPYRIGHT 2016 ANN COULTER DISTRIBUTED BY UNIVERSAL UCLICK