Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, speaking at a memorial to a Nazi massacre, said that the United States would punish those “who commit crimes against innocents anywhere in the world. ” The comments, coming after President Trump bombed Syria in retaliation for a chemical attack, appeared to further shift U. S. foreign policy from a primarily economic focus. Mr. Tillerson is heading to Russia for talks, likely strained.   foreign ministers are holding an “extraordinary meeting” on Syria today. _____ • The U. S. strike on Syria and its positioning of a Navy carrier strike group near the Korean Peninsula are feeding fears of a military response if North Korea conducts another nuclear test. China and South Korea agreed to toughen sanctions on the North in the case of new tests, possibly aiming to persuade North Korea to refrain as it celebrates the birthday of its founder, Kim   on Saturday. Above, a North Korean missile test in 2016. _____ • Another milestone for Tesla. Shares in the upstart electric carmaker briefly soared past $313, making Tesla worth $51 billion, slightly more than General Motors, the largest U. S. automaker. _____ • The Khmer Rouge tribunal has convicted only three men for their roles in the deaths of at least 1. 7 million Cambodians from 1975 to 1979  —   one of the worst episodes of mass killing in the last century. But even if the convictions end there, the trials have brought the crimes of the Pol Pot regime into the open, and, as one historian said, “established a culture of debate in this broken society. ” • Wells Fargo will claw back an additional $75 million from the two executives it blamed for the company’s crippling sales scandal, in which thousands of employees created fraudulent accounts to meet aggressive sales goals. •  Foxconn “is definitely bidding” on Toshiba’s chip business, the Foxconn founder said. Multiple reports say the bid could go to $27 billion. • Toyota will spend more than $1. 3 billion to upgrade its assembly plant in Kentucky, a move that won’t create jobs but still earned a nod from the White House. • Another blow to Barclays. The British authorities are investigating the bank and its chief executive, James E. Staley, after he admitted to trying to find the identity of a  . • U. S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Egypt declared a state of emergency after suicide bombings at Coptic churches on Palm Sunday that undercut President Abdel Fattah  ’s image as a bulwark against Islamic extremists. [The New York Times] • Spanish authorities, acting at the request of the F. B. I. arrested a Russian suspected of being the global kingpin of spam. [The New York Times] • Beijing’s security bureau issued new regulations that offer city residents rewards as high as $72, 400 for information about foreign spies. [The New York Times] • Neil Gorsuch was sworn in as the 113th justice of the U. S. Supreme Court. [The New York Times] • In memoriam: John Clarke, a New   comedian and writer who became a household name in Australia for his political satire, died at 68 while hiking. [The Sydney Morning Herald]  • China barred the wife of a missing   activist from flying to Beijing to seek answers about her husband, Lee  . [The New York Times] • A military court in Pakistan sentenced a former Indian naval officer to death for organizing “espionage and sabotage activities. ” India called the proceedings “farcical. ” [The New York Times] • United Airlines is facing a   nightmare, after a man on an overbooked flight from Chicago was dragged out of the plane, horrifying fellow passengers. [The New York Times] • “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child” won a record nine Olivier Awards for London theater, including best new play and honors for the actors playing Harry and Hermione Granger. [The New York Times] • If a glass of milk is part of your morning routine, take note: when it comes to nutrients, nut milks pale in comparison to cow’s milk. • Writing your boss that   letter may do you wonders. But remember to press delete. • Chopped parsley and mint lift this recipe for seared pork cutlets with green garlic salsa verde. • The Pulitzer Prizes honored the photographer Daniel Berehulak for photographs that provided a haunting portrait of bloody war on drugs in the Philippines. The Times also won for a magazine piece by C. J. Chivers on a young veteran of the war in Afghanistan suffering from PTSD and a series on Russia’s surreptitious assertion of power. • And Sergio García had long felt the disdain of golf fans put off by his attitude. But with a more mellow approach and an underdog’s charm, he won them over at the Masters. • Finally, in today’s 360 video, take a spin through Hollywood, Mount Rushmore and other U. S. icons, all composed of sand and water at a museum in Japan. “Houston, we have a problem. ” The crew of Apollo 13, launched from Kennedy Space Center in Florida on this day in 1970, was 200, 000 miles above Earth when one of its oxygen tanks exploded. The blast either ruptured a line or caused a valve to leak on the other tank. Then the warning lights for the fuel cells began flashing, indicating that the electricity supply was in jeopardy. The mission was supposed to be NASA’s third crewed moon landing. The “problem” came two days in, crippling the command module’s supply of electricity, light and water. The   crew was able to make a series of decisions and improvised repairs to the carbon dioxide removal system, enabling them to use the lunar module as a “lifeboat” to safely return to Earth on April 17. Although the mission was aborted and the crew never landed on the moon, their heroics  —   and their rescue  —   resulted in the mission being classified as a “successful failure. ” The flight remains the record for the farthest humans have ever traveled from Earth, and the response to the near disaster was deemed “NASA’s finest hour. ” Inyoung Kang contributed reporting. _____ This briefing was prepared for the Asian morning. We also have briefings timed for the Australian, European and American mornings. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes. com.