Donald Trump challenged Hillary Clinton to return the tens of millions of dollars she has accepted from Saudi Arabian donors, and called again for a special prosecutor to look into her alleged crimes as Secretary of State. [The hacked emails released by Wikileaks “make more clear than ever just how much is at stake come November 8. Such an important day. Such an important day,” Trump said Friday night in Charlotte, North Carolina. “Get out and vote, everybody. Get out and vote!”  “In an email sent to John Podesta, on August 17, 2014, Hillary wrote that the governments of Qatar and Saudi Arabia are ‘providing clandestine and financial and logistical support to ISIL.’ Yet, in that same year, Bill and Hillary accepted a check from Saudi Arabia,” Trump said as the audience booed. “So Hillary thinks they are funding ISIS, but still takes their money. And you know their views on gays. And you know their views on women. ” “I think she should give back the $25 to $35 million she’s taken from Saudi Arabia,” he said. “And she should give it back fast. ” Audience members began to chant, “Lock her up!” In an email sent over her homebrew, unsecured server to   White House counselor John Podesta, who now chairs her campaign, Hillary   stated Saudia Arabia was funding ISIS in Syria. “[W]e need to use our diplomatic and more traditional intelligence assets to bring pressure on the governments of Qatar and Saudi Arabia, which are providing clandestine financial and logistic support to ISIL and other radical Sunni groups in the region,” Clinton wrote on August 18, 2014. Saudia Arabia has donated as much as $50 million to the Clinton Foundation while it continues its   policy of executing homosexuals and sending them to prison. “This is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to Clinton corruption,” Trump continued. “Hillary bleached and deleted 33, 000 of her emails after receiving —  after, remember the word, after —  after receiving a Congressional subpoena, and had 13 phones disappear. ” “LOCK HER UP! LOCK HER UP!” the crowd roared. “It’s amazing what she’s getting away with, right? It’s amazing. But maybe that won’t happen,” Trump said. “She made 13 phones disappear, some by beating them, beating them, beating them with a hammer. Has anybody, when you got rid of your iPhone, knocked the hell out of it with a hammer?” “There’s a person way, way in the back,” Trump joked, pointing to the back of the crowd. “We will find out what that business that person’s in. ” “She did it to cover up her crimes. It’s one more reason why we need a special prosecutor to look into Hillary Clinton,” he continued. “And we have to investigate the investigation. Nobody in this country has seen anything like it. This is our last chance to save our country and to reclaim it. For we the people. This is it. You don’t have another chance. I really believe this is it. ”