Three Walmart workers in Georgia refused to bake a police officer a cake for his retirement party because they said it was racist. [“I was so shocked,” the police officer’s daughter, who asked that her name not be divulged, said to Todd Starnes. “I didn’t know what to do or say or anything. I was trying not to lose my temper or make a scene. ”  The police officer’s daughter went to the   Walmart on Sept. 22 to order a flag design on a cake for her father’s retirement party from the police force after 25 years of service. When she showed bakers a picture of the police officer’s flag design that she wanted on the cake, one of the bakers said that the design was racist and that none of the bakers felt comfortable making that design on the cake. The officer’s daughter suggested another design for the cake, a chocolate frosted cake with a thin blue line, when the baker rejected that idea too. “She said, ‘I don’t feel comfortable doing this,’” the police officer’s daughter said. “I asked her, ‘Is there something wrong with cops? ’” She left after a third time of being rejected and said she would find another bakery. A friend of the family posted about the incident on Facebook when the Walmart store manager called the police officer’s wife and daughter to apologize. “Our goal is to always take care of customers,” a spokesperson for Walmart told Todd Starnes. “But, sometimes we misstep. We’re glad we were able to connect with the family to apologize and make this right. ” “He said he was so sorry,” the daughter said. “He offered to make the cake free of charge and he gave me a $50 gift card. ” The manager wound up decorating the cake himself, since the cake decorators refused to do it. The daughter was not impressed with how the design came out, and lamented about how the bakers wouldn’t make a cake for a police officer. “It irritates me that in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Walmart was looted and the cops were protecting them,” she said. “And you can’t make a cake for the people who are protecting you?”