Actress Susan Sarandon took to her Twitter account on Wednesday to reiterate her support for Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ presidential campaign, saying it is “insulting” that women would be asked to vote for a female president based on gender alone. [“I don’t vote with my vagina,” the    Thelma and Louise star tweeted. “It’s so insulting to women to think that you would follow a candidate JUST because she’s a woman. ”  “HRC doesn’t rep my interests, @BernieSanders does. Simple as that,” she added, using an acronym for Hillary Rodham Clinton, Sanders’ rival for the Democratic nomination. I never called anyone a ‘vagina voter.’ What I actually said in response to being shamed for supporting a man over a woman: ( )  —   Susan Sarandon (@SusanSarandon) February 17, 2016,  “I don’t vote with my vagina. It’s so insulting to women to think that you would follow a candidate JUST because she’s a woman. ” ( )  —   Susan Sarandon (@SusanSarandon) February 17, 2016,  HRC doesn’t rep my interests, @BernieSanders does. Simple as that. ( )  —   Susan Sarandon (@SusanSarandon) February 17, 2016,  Sarandon first voiced her support for Sanders in September when she joined Artists for Bernie, a coalition of more than 120 actors, directors and musicians that are publicly supporting the socialist Vermont senator’s run. The actress appeared at a Sanders rally in Iowa last month, where she sharply criticized Clinton over the former New York senator’s vote to authorize the Iraq war. “She’s had a job, but what has she done that we’re bragging about? How has she led?” Sarandon said last month. The actress’ comments come as the Sanders campaign is battling its own controversy this week. At a Tuesday night event at Atlanta’s Morehouse College, Run the Jewels rapper and Sanders supporter Killer Mike suggested that the fact that Clinton is female should not automatically entitle her to become president. “[A] uterus doesn’t qualify you to be President of the United States,” the rapper said at the event. Killer Mike later clarified that he was quoting feminist activist Jane Elliott with the comment. A poll released Wednesday revealed Sanders had narrowed the gap against Clinton nationally, trailing by just two points. Both candidates are vying to secure female voters ahead of the Nevada and South Carolina primaries this month.  OO. ready( function()  ) })