London’s Evening Standard recently wrote a feature on Breitbart Senior Editor Milo Yiannopoulos, describing him as “the world’s first professional troll. ”[The piece’s tagline reads, “He’s banned from Twitter and speaking at his old school  —   but Milo Yiannopoulos has a mentor in the White House. Phoebe Luckhurst distinguishes the man from the myth. ” The author attempts to decipher the cultural phenomenon that is MILO, first discussing his infamous tour rider with The Tab CEO, Jack Rivlin,  “Part of people’s obsession with Milo is that no one can work out how much of him is real and how much is persona,” agrees Jack Rivlin, founder and CEO of The Tab, who used to share an office with Yiannopoulos in Clerkenwell. “In person he is kind and generous, and ridiculously good fun, even for people who expect to be one of his ‘enemies’. A lot of people who hate his public persona would attend his funeral and be genuinely sad, which probably explains the Milo paradox quite well. ” The article further goes on to discuss MILO’s explosive but often divisive appeal, mentioning his recent banning from the Simon Langton Grammar School for Boys, “Yiannopoulos has been on the margins of topical discourse for some time but after Trump’s election his viewpoints have found a startling, discomfiting relevancy. And accordingly, he has been making headlines again. This week, he was due to speak about American politics at his old school, Simon Langton Grammar School for Boys in Canterbury, but the speech was cancelled, after the intervention of   authorities. Reportedly, most parents and pupils are furious about the censorship  —   on the other hand, Yiannopoulos is delighted. “My return to the UK has been met with much fanfare,” he wrote on Facebook, along with an image of a newspaper article covering the dispute, on which was printed a picture of Yiannopoulos, astride a sedan chair, being carried by students in Santa Barbara. ” The article finally sums up MILO concluding,  “Ultimately, Yiannopoulos resists definition, preferring to tease and provoke. And despite all this, in private, he seduces. “He’s   good at making introductions and can be incredibly charming and helpful,” offers another acquaintances. I once attended a birthday party of his, held at a bar in Old Street, where he arrived on a throne Rivlin remembers he was “carried by four topless hunks”. “He’s like a combination of Eddie Monsoon from Ab Fab and Nigel Farage, with better hair,” he adds.  Read the full article here.