Girls star Lena Dunham is set to play former Ronald Reagan speechwriter Peggy Noonan in a live reading of the 2015 Black List screenplay Reagan next month in Los Angeles. [According to Deadline, Dunham will play Noonan opposite Star Trek‘s John Cho, who will play a young intern to President Reagan.  The script for Reagan made the 2015 list of the best unproduced screenplays in the industry. The fictional story is reportedly set shortly after Reagan wins a second term in a landslide in 1984. As the president suffers from dementia, a young intern (Cho) must convince him that he is an actor in a movie where he is playing the president. The script hails from TV and short film   Mike Rosolio. The live reading will take place at Hollywood’s Montalban Theater on March 5. Deadline reports that the role of Reagan has not yet been cast. Noonan served as one of Reagan’s top speechwriters and is credited with writing some of his most memorable speeches, including the address he delivered to the nation after the Challenger disaster in January 1986, his Pointe du Hoc speech for the 40th Anniversary of   and his Farewell Address to the nation. Noonan also served as a speechwriter for George H. W. Bush, having penned his famous “Thousand Points of Light” speech at the Republican National Convention in 1988 when he accepted the GOP nomination. She is now a weekly columnist for the Wall Street Journal. Dunham has been busy over the last month, stumping for Democrat presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton in both New Hampshire and Iowa. The      met with Clinton supporters in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, ahead of that state’s primary earlier this month, while wearing a number of colorful outfits emblazoned with the candidate’s name. Last week, Dunham announced that she would be sitting out the press tour of the sixth season of Girls due to a recurrence of her endometriosis however, the actress did host a QA press conference at Hearst Tower last week that was closed to the press. Watch Reagan’s Challenger speech, written by Noonan, below: 