  website Snopes has turned a reputation as the internet’s gold standard in   and   into that of an email promising money from Bill Gates by playing presidential politics  —   and of course they did this by attacking Breitbart. [As my most dedicated fans will be aware, I’ve previously written about how terrible birth control is for women. I stand by this and believe that the pill, together with the washing machine, has contributed towards women’s increasing level of unhappiness in recent years. Now in my original article I may have said something along the lines of, “Your birth control injection will add on pounds that will prevent the injection you really want  —   of man meat. ”  Sometimes I can’t help how witty and hilarious I am, but others often don’t appreciate my playful nature and sophisticated sense of humour. Like many prophets, such as the Delphic Oracle or Jesus, I’m not fully appreciated in my time.  CNN talking head and   pundit Maria Cardona falsely attributed the line from my article to Breitbart’s former Executive Chairman, Steve Bannon, who recently joined Donald Trump’s presidential campaign. This of course was done on purpose to try and paint Bannon in a negative light. As usual, when leftists can’t find any actual dirt on someone they have to create it out of thin air.  So why did the popular   website Snopes give a “mixed truth” rating to a clear lie? They argue that because “Steve Bannon was the Executive Chairman of Breitbart when the web site published an article asserting that birth control made women fat and prevented them from getting “man meat” injections,” this is enough to award Cardona’s statement “mixed truth. ”  But, as the Snopes article acknowledges, Bannon did not write the article. He never edited it either  —   it’s absurd to suggest a media executive is responsible for individual lines in stories. Snopes’ verdict should have been “completely false,” not “mixed truth. ” It was quite simply a false attribution.  Then again, Snopes  —   once the gold standard of internet    —   has been drifting towards political partisanship for a while now. In a piece about Khizr Khan’s financial ties to Hillary Clinton, they referred to us as “the unreliable Breitbart. ”  The article attempts to defend Khan from claims that he is “deeply connected” to the Clintons, claiming (incorrectly) that his law firm’s connection to Saudi Arabia, a Clinton Foundation donor, was the only connection. It ignores the deeper connection, between Khan’s colleague Howard Topaz and the Clintons, to whom Topaz regularly provided tax advice.  These attempts to alter the truth or “correct the record” are a common leftist tactic  —   the liberal bias at PolitiFact, for example, is  .  But Snopes had, at least until now, avoided such obvious bias.  Snopes began life in   form, in the early era of the web, with a focus on debunking urban legends and conspiracy theories. It quickly grew to become the   “debunking” site on the web. But now it looks like they’ve squandered that distinctive track record to become another boring leftist “ . ” Since Bannon began working with the Trump campaign, virtually every major leftist news source has published hit pieces on Bannon and Breitbart. Hillary Clinton herself hilariously read out the headlines of some of my own articles. I still consider Clinton saying “Would you rather your child had feminism or cancer” on national television to be one of the highlights of my career.  The Hill published a piece the other day falsely claiming that Bannon had fired a disabled woman on maternity leave. What they didn’t mention was that the woman’s job was in a department that was cut from the company in its entirety. Her medical conditions or pregnancy had nothing to do with the decision to remove a failing part of the company.  These desperate, overblown attacks prove one thing: that the left is afraid. Breitbart, and the brand of   politics represented by Trump and Bannon pose a serious threat to the   cultural consensus. That’s why they must resort to lies, deceit and falsehoods in an attempt to destroy us. Of course they will fail. We’re smarter, stronger, and the nimblest of navigators. As things stand, websites like Snopes that are willing to sell out their   reputations to advance personal political prejudices have a rapidly shortening shelf life.  Just remember, when Daddy Trump takes office he won’t vow to destroy antagonistic news organizations as free   Hillary Clinton has. He’ll simply allow organizations like Breitbart to continue telling the truth, and let audiences vote with their feet. So to Snopes, CNN, and other leftist propaganda outlets (not to mention establishment GOP shops) I say this: enjoy it while it lasts, because we’re coming for you. Follow Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) on Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat. Hear him every Friday on The Milo Yiannopoulos Show. Write to Milo at milo@breitbart. com.