WASHINGTON  —   The good news for Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas,   Donald J. Trump’s nominee to run the Central Intelligence Agency, is that he appears to share the same adversarial view of Russia as most American spies. The bad news for Mr. Pompeo is that he will have to square his views with those of Mr. Trump, who has denigrated American intelligence agencies, praised President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and is now contending with a dossier of unsubstantiated reports that Russia has collected compromising and salacious personal information about him. Known as a pugnacious Republican  partisan by his colleagues in Congress, Mr. Pompeo is going to have pull off the political balancing act of his career to keep the confidence of the Trump White House while winning over the C. I. A. an agency that is notoriously hostile to outsiders in the best of times. His Senate confirmation hearing, scheduled for Thursday before the Senate intelligence committee, will be the first test of whether he has the diplomatic finesse to manage it. Mr. Trump’s aides will no doubt be keeping close watch for any signs that they cannot rely on Mr. Pompeo, while Democrats on the committee will be eager to look for any daylight between the nominee and Mr. Trump. That will be especially true when it comes to the assessment by intelligence agencies that Russia used cyberattacks and disinformation to undermine American democracy and promote the candidacy of Mr. Trump. At the C. I. A. the concerns are more parochial. The message officials will be looking to hear from Mr. Pompeo is, “I’m going to protect you from these guys,” said Michael V. Hayden, a former director of both the C. I. A. and the National Security Agency. “Every television set in Langley is going to be on for that hearing,” Mr. Hayden said, referring to the town in Northern Virginia where the C. I. A. is based. Mr. Trump’s mocking response to accusations that Russia meddled in the election has opened an extraordinary breach between an incoming president and the C. I. A. and the revelation that intelligence chiefs briefed Mr. Trump last week on the dossier of unsubstantiated reports is likely to deepen the divide. The dispute has hit morale hard at the C. I. A. current and former agency officials said. At his news conference on Wednesday, Mr. Trump said that intelligence agencies were “vital” and that they would have 90 days after his inauguration to produce “a major report on hacking. ” But he also continued to criticize the agencies, suggesting that they had leaked the dossier. It was “disgraceful that the intelligence agencies allowed any information that turned out to be so false and fake out,” he said. The C. I. A. considers its mission to provide cleareyed information and analysis that is free of political interference, and it considers the president its main customer. It is sensitive to slights, and many at the C. I. A. were especially galled by what they considered Mr. Trump’s cheap shots at the mistaken intelligence in the prelude to the Iraq war. “It prides itself on being the president’s agency, so how does that feel when your patron suddenly is dumping all over your work,” said Mark M. Lowenthal, a former C. I. A. analyst. Memories run long at the C. I. A. and hanging over the dispute with Mr. Trump is the unhappy tenure of Porter J. Goss, the last sitting member of Congress named to lead the agency. Mr. Goss took over in 2004, when the agency was widely viewed as being at odds with the Bush administration over the Iraq war, and his marching orders were to end what the White House viewed as a campaign of leaks by insiders who opposed administration policies. Mr. Goss failed to stop the leaks. But his attempted crackdown, which included rare “ ” polygraph tests of senior officials, prompted a wave of departures by veterans. Mr. Goss lasted only 13 months, done in by the spreading discontent with his leadership. Mr. Pompeo has not made any public comments since his nomination in November, and how he will approach his new job remains to be seen. He is best known for his relentless questioning of Hillary Clinton during the congressional investigation into the 2012 attacks on the American consulate in Benghazi, Libya. His quips about the attack being worse than Watergate and his continued insistence that there was a “” even after the House Select Committee on Benghazi found no new evidence of wrongdoing, have raised some concerns about such an overt partisan leading an agency that is supposed to be above politics. But among both Democrats and Republicans in Congress, Mr. Pompeo, a former Army tank officer who graduated first in his class from West Point, is widely seen as smart and thorough  —   and a professional who is capable of rising above the political fray. “He really enjoys this type of work, so I think he’s going to flourish,” said Representative Devin Nunes, a Republican from California. “He’s a military guy, an academy graduate, and this is what he’s been working for his whole career. ” At the C. I. A. there was a sense that Mr. Pompeo’s nomination signaled an end to Mr. Trump’s   dismissals of accusations about Russian meddling, and a readiness to start taking intelligence seriously. A new administration often brings an infusion of energy and ideas, and most at the agency are eager to get to work under Mr. Pompeo, according to a current C. I. A. official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they could not be quoted by name. But there are already suggestions from some corners of the Trump camp about a need to reorganize the intelligence community, which has stoked concerns at the C. I. A. of a “hostile takeover” by leaders who want political cheerleading, not cleareyed analysis, Mr. Lowenthal said. How Mr. Pompeo gets along with Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s choice for national security adviser, is likely to prove crucial. Mr. Flynn, a retired intelligence officer and a former director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, is a harsh judge of the C. I. A. which he says was overly politicized by the Obama administration. That view is not widely shared by Republicans or Democrats in Washington. But it appears to have been internalized by Mr. Trump. Still, Mr. Pompeo’s hawkish views on a range of other issues are likely to be welcomed at the agency. He has argued for Congress to permit domestic surveillance on a huge scale, says waterboarding is legal and does not constitute torture, and views Russia as the biggest threat facing the United States. “I think it’s safe to say that Mr. Pompeo is very skeptical of Vladimir Putin,” Mr. Nunes said. “I don’t think you can get any more concerned about Putin’s advancement” than Mr. Pompeo. Democrats expect to hit the Russia issue hard in an attempt to draw out differences between Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Trump. But they are also looking for Mr. Pompeo to take clear stances on controversial issues where he has made statements that put him in line with the   like waterboarding and domestic surveillance. Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said he expected Mr. Pompeo to try to avoid being pinned down, especially on matters on which he may disagree with Mr. Trump, by saying that the director of the C. I. A. does not set policy but only executes it. Mr. Pompeo took that tack in his written responses to questions from some senators on the intelligence committee, Senator Wyden said. “I’m going to be respectfully saying that’s a lot of baloney,” he added. As director of the C. I. A. Mr. Pompeo would “have an enormous effect on surveillance and torture and Russia,” Senator Wyden said. “The American people want policies that are going to better produce security and liberty. ” The Trump team is “advancing ideas that give us less of both. ”