Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump joined SiriusXM host Alex Marlow for the Election Day edition of Breitbart News Daily. [Trump said he’s feeling “unbelievable energy” from the crowds at his rallies as the presidential race comes to an end.  “We had to have close to 30, 000 people in Michigan at one o’clock in the morning,” he said, “because, you know, we added it on at the end. We’re doing great in Michigan. They’re great people, and the car business has been taken away, and so much has happened. ” “We were in New Hampshire, which was incredible, at the big arena. It was packed,” Trump continued. “I mean, it was just packed with thousands of people outside. The energy in New Hampshire was unbelievable. And then we hopped in the plane, we flew to Michigan, we got there at about 12:30, almost 1:00 in the morning. It had to have close to 30, 000 people, inside and out. The energy is incredible. ” Marlow noted that Trump has been holding big rallies in traditionally “blue” states during the last days of his campaign, and asked for his thoughts on expanding the Republican “big tent” to include more longtime Democratic constituencies. “You have to do it,” said Trump. “You know, we’re at a tremendous disadvantage in the Electoral College. As you know, she starts off with like about 240 her number’s around 240 before she starts. The Republicans are at a tremendous disadvantage. But I have a great relationship with New Hampshire, as an example. A great relationship with various places like North Carolina, which I guess you could say is purple, but I think we’re gonna do great there, and so many of the others. ” “And I think we’re gonna do fantastically in Michigan,” he predicted. “Michigan is, you know, the cars, that industry was ripped out of Michigan, so much of it, and moved to Mexico and other places. The people understand. And I’ve been talking about it, Alex, for five years. You know, I got Man of the Year in Michigan about five or six years ago. In my speech, I was talking about that. It had nothing to do with it, but I was talking about it, and they know how I feel. And then the polls started coming out, as you know, and we are up I think two points in Michigan, which is shocking to people, because in theory, that was a very blue state. Very blue. ” “She heard about it, and she went there last night, too, but she’s not gonna stop what’s happening to the state,” he said of Clinton. “And there are some others. We seem to be doing very well in certain blue states. Maybe a lot of them. ” Marlow asked for the agenda in the first hundred days of the Trump administration, and what he expected from the   session of Congress, should he win the election. “We have a lot of different things,” Trump replied. “First of all, we have to strengthen our borders. We need border security. We have to start building up our military. We have to take care of our vets. We have to immediately repeal and replace Obamacare  —   so important. It is such a disaster, Obamacare. And you’re seeing it. I know it’s a subject that you guys cover a lot. You see the rate increases, the premium increases  —   as an example, Arizona, 116 percent increase. Minnesota, 60 percent. You have these increases all over the place, and it came up just before the election, but everyone was suffering [from] them they all understand, but it seemed to be a very big subject. I think it’s one of the reasons that we are doing so well, the Obamacare. It’s a disaster. And it’s no good. It doesn’t work. I mean, you can’t even use it, the deductibles are so high. ” “So we will repeal and replace Obamacare. We’ll get a health care that’s fabulous, like great, and that’s for a fraction of the cost,” Trump promised. “This is crazy. ” Marlow mentioned two constituencies Trump is likely to have trouble with at the polls: NeverTrump Republicans and Latino voters. However, he thought Latino voters might “come out more for you than people have anticipated” because the Democrats’ appeal to the Latino constituency has been so condescending. “Why do the Democrats expect them to vote for policies from the countries that they left?” Marlow wondered. “I think we’re gonna do much better with the Hispanics or Latinos than anyone expects,” Trump agreed. “They’re great people, and I think we’re gonna do very well. It’s already been borne out. As an example, last week, I received the primary award from the Cuban Bay of Pigs Association. They gave me this incredible award because of what I do and all. That’s an indication. With the Cubans, I can tell you, we’re like at 85 percent. But I think we’re gonna do very well with the Hispanics, and frankly, with the African Americans. I think we’re doing really well. You see what’s going on. And she’s not doing well. She’s very uninspiring, and she is not doing well at all. ” “So it’ll be a very interesting evening, I think. Don’t you think?” Trump said. When Marlow noted the contrast between Hillary Clinton’s campaign rhetoric about “unity” and her sneering dismissal of Trump’s voters as “deplorables,” Trump said, “Yeah, ‘deplorables,’ ‘irredeemable,’ you know, a few little beauties like that. ” “Look, I think she would not be a good president,” he contended. “I think that she’s not an inspiring person. Our country is very divided, as you know. We’re gonna bring great unity to the country. I think we’re going to do a fantastic job. I know we’re gonna do a fantastic job with jobs. ” “We went to Michigan last night, you heard. It was incredible. There had to be close to 30, 000 people there, and it was at one o’clock in the morning,” he repeated. “They want their jobs back. They want their auto industry to come back. A lot of it’s left for Mexico. It’s leaving as we speak. So I think that unity is very, very important. I agree with her on that. I just don’t think that she is going to be able to unify this country. ” Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot 125 weekdays from 6:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m. Eastern. LISTEN: 