The newest video exposé by James O’Keefe and Project Veritas reveals how Democrats have incited violence at Donald Trump rallies to create a sense of “anarchy” around him, using a tactic called “ . ” In addition, O’Keefe and his team show how the Hillary Clinton campaign is coordinating with super PACs through text messages, using consultants as intermediaries  —   the “Pony Express. ”[The campaign and its functionaries hid their efforts using a “ ” system to allow “plausible deniability” if their plans went awry. And they used the media to spread a carefully crafted message that “Trump is dangerous and divisive, undermining our values and putting our security at risk,” as one Democratic National Committee (DNC) PowerPoint presentation, revealed by Wikileaks, put it.   Hillary Clinton and her secretive campaign apparatus are deliberately turning Americans against each other, using violence that has spread beyond their control and that has led to attacks on innocent people at Trump rallies  —   for which elected Democrats and the mainstream media blame Donald Trump, regardless. The entire scheme is managed by Robert Creamer  —   a veteran Chicago activist and organizer who was convicted and sentenced to federal prison in   but who trained volunteers in the Obama campaign and who remains crucial to Democrats’ messaging efforts. His group, Democracy Partners, is the “pinwheel” through which the party funnels resources that are used by super PACs and others. Creamer’s various protests and provocations are known to the DNC, with Hillary Clinton approving at least one effort, featuring a provocateur in a “Donald Duck” costume. A recent Wikileaks email release also showed that Clinton’s campaign manager, Robby Mook, had approved a plan for “ ” Trump by inserting immigration activists, including illegal aliens, into his rallies to confront him. Hillary Clinton said at the second presidential debate that she wanted to “overcome the divisiveness that sometimes sets Americans against one another. ” She and her campaign are responsible for that divisiveness  —   to the point of inciting violence. O’Keefe and Project Veritas have bravely uncovered the corrupt, destructive machine at the heart of Democrats’ effort to elect Hillary Clinton at any cost. Their work leaves no doubt as to which candidate is really dividing America. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.