Tuesday on CNN’s “AC 360,” Khizr Khan, father of slain U. S. Army Capt. Humayun Khan denied the accusation he was using his son’s death to advance Sharia Law.  He told host Anderson Cooper that he did not stand for “any Sharia Law because there was no such thing. ” That statement contradicts his prior position he stated. According to a Breitbart News report, Khan has published papers supporting the supremacy of Islamic law over “ ” Western law, which includes the U. S. Constitution. Transcript as follows: COOPER: Let me ask you, just yesterday an official adviser on Veteran’s Affairs just the guy who was referencing before and the Trump campaign Al Baldasaro tweeted out this. He said, he tweeted out a link to a blog post which essentially accuses you of being a Muslim brotherhood agent who wants to advance Sharia Law in the United States adding that you used your son as a political pawn. I want you to be able to respond to that. KHAN: Yeah. And I hope his surrogates are listening so they can take note of it what I’m about to say. I have no concern, I have no link, I have never been of that thought of that. I assure you I am an educated person. There is and I hope that other not so thoughtful Republican leaders are listening, there is constitutional amendment in the constitution of United States and that is called equal protection of law under 14th Amendment. Sharia Law as we have titled, there is no such thing as Sharia Law. These are laws of various Muslim countries which are hodgepodge of British laws, French laws, Portuguese laws. In there, there is tremendous discrimination of genders which disqualifies them under the constitution of the United States, cannot be implemented, cannot be brought. How can I be a person that has read this, I preach that, that I do not stand for any Sharia Law because there is no such thing. COOPER: Let me also ask you something else we he heard from the Trump campaign just over the last two days. Yesterday I talked to a former admiral, rear admiral who is supporting Donald Trump as one of his advisers, who suggested  —   who sort of turned the subject from should Donald Trump apologize to the rules of engagement for troops in Iraq, implying somehow that the rules of engagement were so restrictive that they played a role in your son’s killing, something else that another Trump spokesman, Katrina Pierson also said today on CNN. We have the sound bite from her today. Let’s listen to what she says. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KATRINA PIERSON, TRUMP’S SPOKESPERSON: .. I don’t understand. But surely you can understand the confusion considering how Donald Trump never voted for the Iraq War. Hillary Clinton did. And then she didn’t support the troops to have what they need. It was under Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton that changed the rules of engagement that probably cost his life. So I don’t understand why it’s so hard to understand, why Donald Trump was confused about why he was being held responsible for something he had nothing to do with, while Hillary Clinton had everything to do with. WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Katrina Pierson as usual   …     (END VIDEO CLIP) COOPER: Pierson is clearly either confused about her or simply ignorant of is that your son was killed in 2004, Donald Trump  —   Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton were not the president and secretary of state in 2004. But I just wanted to give the other respond. KHAN: Do I need to say anything? Lack of understanding, lack of factual correctness, it’s just nothing but political vote pandering. They are trying to create this fear in people’s mind. They have come up with this terms and these terminology that they continue to talk about without really knowing the facts about what they are talking. I want to put a footnote in front, I received information from where my website was, it is down now. This is the maliciousness and Donald Trump should say to his surrogates that no more, no more harm, no more ugliness. I received the call from the host of the website saying that we are receiving tremendous amount of hits and especially on certain pages of your website. I have a   small website and there is a risk that somebody will damage it, somebody may hack it. I asked them what do you suggest. They said under such circumstances, we normally keep it offline when this madness will go away, we will bring it back. I asked them to do that. To which I began to then receive   and calls why your website is down, why your website is down. This is the ugliness of this discourse. There could be some civility in this discourse. It is a political discourse, of course. There could be some discussion of policy and all that instead of personal ugliness. So I am not engaging anymore because I see no hope, I do see hope where the people who are thinking to vote for this candidate, I think it is plenty clear, his surrogates will not admit, it’s plenty clear to the world that this person is not fit for the office he’s seeking. He wants to do everything, I will do it by myself, I will do it in democracy, you cannot do this. That is against the basic principle of democracy. Therefore, my comments on that is that I really do not want to put myself and my son, my dignified son, through this mud slinging process and lack of decency, of conversation, is just amazing. I would again appeal to his surrogates that please show some decency. Refrain from what you attempted out of anger and out of this ugly partisanness. COOPER: So, Mr. Khan, I appreciate you talking with us tonight. My condolences obviously to you and your family and thank you for taking the time this evening. Appreciate it. We’re going to take   …     KHAN: Thank you very much. Follow Breitbart. tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideo