A teacher in Austria will be charged for telling students Mohammed, the founder of Islam, was a child molester. [A middle school teacher in the Austrian city of Bregenz is facing criminal prosecution for her comments regarding the founder of Islam. Vorarlberg Provincial Councillor Dr. Bernadette Mennel confirmed that the teacher was facing a criminal complaint when she said, “yes, there is an allegation against the teacher,” VOL reports.  It is alleged that the Bregenz teacher had described Mohammed, the prophet and founder of Islam, as a child molester in front of her students. Upon hearing the news the school forwarded the complaint to the Vorarlberg prosecutors office. Currently the prosecution office has given no information about their investigation into the veracity of the claims against the teacher but if they find any truth to them there will likely be harsh consequences for the teacher. Frau Mennel said, “such statements are unacceptable,” but said she would hold off judgement until the state prosecutor was able fully to investigate the case and determine the legitimacy of the claim. Remarks about Mohammed being a child molester refer to a marriage that occurred later in his life. Mohammed was married to a girl named Aisha who was only six years old at the time of their marriage, and only nine years old when they first had sexual relations. In today’s society anyone caught having sex with a nine year old girl would be arrested and called a paedophile. Many who support Islam and Mohammed say that the context of the marriage is important. Experts says that during the Middle Ages it wasn’t uncommon for child brides to be married off for political purposes. In Africa and the Middle East insulting the prophet of Islam is not only illegal but can often carry a death sentence. A case in Nigeria saw a Muslim cleric, from the often persecuted Sufi sect, being condemned to death for his remarks about Mohammed. Abdul Nyass didn’t go as far as saying Mohammed was a child molester but did claim that a 20th century Sufi cleric was greater than Mohammed, which was enough to see him put to death by a sharia court. In India Muslims rioted after a Hindu leader referred to the prophet as a homosexual and many protesters beat up police and set fire to multiple vehicles. In of Europe blasphemy against Islam falls often under the rubric of hate speech, or at the very least under the term Islamophobia. One of the architects of the usage of the term Islamophobia, and former Equalities and Human Rights Commission head, Trevor Phillips, has recently admitted he was wrong about Muslim integration and Islam entirely.  Noted Islam critic Pamela Geller writing for Breitbart London on Phillip’s change of heart said, “‘Islamophobia’ is nothing more than a term that Islamic supremacists use to enforce the Islamic blasphemy laws in the West. ” Regardless of the outcome of the case with the teacher in Vorarlberg, the teacher joins an   list of people in Europe risking prosecution for insulting Islam —   from Dutch politician Geert Wilders to PEGIDA founder Lutz Bachmann  —   and the trend shows no signs of stopping.  