Paul Sperry writes at the NY Post:  President Obama says don’t worry, the Orlando terrorist was just another “lone actor” operating in isolation, unconnected to any larger group of supporters. In fact, these   “lone wolves” are running in packs, and suggesting otherwise gives the public a false sense of security. Yet Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson echoed Obama, saying Omar Mateen was “ ” without any religious, ideological or operational support from friends, family or others in the Muslim community. “What we do know at this point is it appears this was a case of ” Johnson said. “He does not appear to have been part of any group. ” A more accurate picture is that Mateen, an   was part of a disturbingly large Muslim family of sympathizers, supporters and even  . For starters, his wife could face criminal charges in the attack on the gay Orlando nightclub, the deadliest act of terrorism in the US since  . Noor Zahi Salman, who wed Mateen in 2011, reportedly told the FBI she knew about her husband’s planned attack and even drove him to the site of the massacre as part of a scouting operation. She also is said to have helped him case the Disney Springs shopping complex. What’s more, Salman allegedly was with Mateen when he bought ammo and a holster used in the attack. Prosecutors have convened a grand jury to present evidence against Salman, a Palestinian immigrant, who ultimately could be indicted as an accessory to the murders of 49 people and the attempted murders of 53 others. Possible other charges include failing to report a terrorist attack and lying to federal agents. It appears the seeds of Mateen’s hatred were planted at home. His Afghan immigrant father, who founded a nonprofit group to support the Taliban, preached gays should be punished. In a video Seddique Mir Mateen posted on the Web, he expresses gratitude toward the Afghan Taliban, who stone homosexuals to death, calling them “our warrior brothers. ” Other statements make it clear the elder Mateen could have passed   views onto his son. Read the full story here.