The Satanic Temple of Seattle (TST) announces its proposal for an “After School Satan Club pilot program” in the Tacoma, Washington public schools. [“We’ve contacted the Tacoma Public Schools District via email and letter announcing our intentions to start an After School Satan Club at Point Defiance Elementary, and have requested their Facility Use application so we may follow the correct procedures in applying,” says the Satanic Temple’s website. “We look forward to providing a fun, educational option for Point Defiance students to learn about science, rationalism, and critical thinking. ”  In the FAQ section of its website, the Satanic Temple says, “All After School Satan Clubs are based upon a uniform syllabus that emphasizes a scientific, rationalist,   world view. ” The Satanists attack Christianity: While the twisted Evangelical teachings of The Good News Clubs “robs children of the innocence and enjoyment of childhood, replacing them with a negative self image, preoccupation with sin, fear of Hell, and aversion to critical thinking,” After School Satan Clubs incorporate games, projects, and thinking exercises that help children understand how we know what we know about our world and our universe. As CNSNews. com reports, the Satanists had originally planned to start their club at Centennial Elementary School in the Mount Vernon School District, but discovered the club would have to meet several hours after the end of the school day due to other activities sponsored by the school district. “We have our own school activities and that includes our own   program,” said Centennial Elementary School Principal Erwin Stroosma. “When that kind of stuff is going on, we don’t allow other organizations to rent the facility. ” “I don’t mind that we made a switch,” said Lilith Starr, who heads the TST chapter. “[The national organization wants] us to go somewhere where we can try to get in as soon as possible. ” The Satanic Temple’s website states Satan Clubs are “operated by local chapters of The Satanic Temple by volunteer members who have been vetted by the Executive Ministry for professionalism, social responsibility, superior communication skills, and lack of criminal history. ” The public information meeting about the Tacoma pilot club is scheduled for Sunday, November 13 in Seattle. “Come by, meet your local Satanists, and learn more about what we do and how to get involved!” invites the Satanists. “All are welcome. Cookies and soda provided. ”