The latest   poll shows Republican Donald Trump holds a slight lead in New Hampshire over his Democratic presidential rival Hillary Clinton. [Trump is at 43 percent to Clinton’s 41 percent, according to the poll conducted Nov. 1 and Nov. 2 with 1, 001 registered voters.  “New Hampshire was once one of the most solid Republican states, but on the presidential level it has become a real battleground state,” says Doug Kaplan, the managing partner of Gravis Marketing, the   polling firm that executed the poll. The poll  carries a 2 percent margin of error with a 95 percent level of confidence. “It is a small state, but because most of its population is in the Boston media market, it is an expensive state for any campaign,” he said. Kaplan said Libertarian Gary Johnson had the support of 7 percent and Green Party nominee Dr. Jill Stein has 2 percent. “It is normal for third or fourth party candidates to do well in the summer, but as the election gets closer, their support sneaks away to the major party candidates, but Johnson is holding on to what could be a spoiler’s margin in New Hampshire,” he said. In the Senate race, Republican Sen. Kelly Ayotte has an edge over her Democratic rival Gov. Maggie Hassan with Ayotte at 46 percent and the governor at 44 percent, he said. The poll also asked a series of questions to gauge the mood of the New Hampshire electorate.   percent of New Hampshire voters said that Obamacare was not a success and 35 percent said it was a success. Asked: Why do you think FBI Director James Comey chose to reopen the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while Secretary of State after the agency recently uncovered thousands of emails on the laptop used by Clinton’s closest adviser?   percent said Comey found something of significance and 36 percent said Comey was trying to effect the election. Yet, 56 percent of poll participants said the reopening of the investigation into Clinton’s handling of the emails had an impact on their vote. Asked:  Should President Obama publicly announce before the election that if Hillary Clinton is elected, he will not pardon her for any crimes prior to the election?   percent of the respondents said the president should announce that he will not pardon Clinton.   percent said he should not and 32 percent were unsure.   percent of respondents said Clinton should announce that she would not accept a pardon, while 49 percent said Clinton should pledge not to pardon herself. On the other side, 28 percent said she should not announce that she would not accept a pardon and 26 percent said should not pledge not to pardon herself. The poll was conducted with combination of interactive voice response polling and an internet panel of cell phone users with results weighted to match a proprietary turnout model. New Hampshire (November 3, 2016) v1 by breitbartnews on Scribd, 