Actor Richard Dreyfuss angered his fellow Hollywood liberals last week when he was photographed speaking with Sen. Ted Cruz at an Iowa rally for the Republican presidential contender. [But in an interview with TheWrap to clear up any confusion surrounding his political position, the    actor says he also attended events for Marco Rubio and Carly Fiorina that day, will “most likely not” vote for Cruz, and dutifully called Republican frontrunner Donald Trump too stupid to be president and threw in a few jabs at Rubio and Cruz for good measure.  “I was [in Iowa] to hear any and all that I could hear, and I was hoping to meet or experience Trump,” Dreyfuss told TheWrap. “I went to a Rubio event, I went to a Carly Fiorina rally. Trump wasn’t there. ” Dreyfuss told the outlet he attended the Cruz rally at the invitation of pollster Frank Luntz. “He and I have been friends for a long time and he asked if I wanted to experience the caucus. And I said, ‘Yo, baby,’” the star of ABC’s Madoff   explained. “Frank is a great companion. He was nice enough to introduce me to a level at the caucus that most people don’t get to see. So, I’d be an idiot to turn that down. ” The screen icon and Obama supporter told TheWrap that he hasn’t been a Democrat since 2004, and described himself as “ ”: “I will not participate in discussions about partisan issues. ” But Dreyfuss also slammed Cruz and Rubio, both of whom the actor said “sound as if they’re picking certain sections of a grand master speech and they just take paragraph four and just slip it into whatever audience is in front of them. ” He also reserved his sharpest criticism for Trump. “[Trump’s] defied everyone’s laws and everyone’s predictions,” he said. “It’s amusing, amazing and horrifying. I don’t know if anyone realizes that Donald Trump has revealed a fundamental flaw in the Constitution, which is that there should be a bar one never goes below in terms of intelligence for office holders. ” The actor, who played former Vice President Dick Cheney in Oliver Stone’s 2004 film W. told TheWrap he hasn’t yet decided who to vote for in 2016. Read Dreyfuss’ full interview with TheWrap here.  