After starring in and directing a string of critical and financial box office disasters,   activist and Hollywood actor George Clooney is sticking to what he knows best: Alienating conservative moviegoers by marginalizing them as racists. [Clooney and his wife Amal will be hosting a pair of fundraisers for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton next month.  Ahead of the fundraisers  —   and a contest in which a raffle winner will meet Clinton at the Clooney’s California home  —   the actor is ramping up his criticism of GOP frontrunner Donald Trump, whom he previously described as a “xenophobic fascist. ” In a letter being sent out to supporters of Clinton’s White House bid by her campaign, Clooney describes Clinton as a “voice of tolerance and experience” and attempts to besmirch Trump as a racist Islamophobe who wants to commit “war crimes. ” While Clooney does not use Trump’s name in the letter, he does share some choice words for the New York billionaire and anyone who agrees with him on immigration and national security. “If you listen to the loudest voices out there today, you’d think we’re a country that hates Mexicans, hates Muslims, and thinks that committing war crimes is the best way to make America great again,” Clooney writes in the letter, which was obtained by Variety. “The truth is that the only thing that would prevent America from being great would be to empower these voices. ” Clooney adds:   …     In all of this clutter, there’s been one consistent voice. A voice of tolerance and experience, from a candidate who’s spent a lifetime fighting for the rights of the less fortunate. A candidate who knows firsthand the complexity of our international relationships.   …     That candidate is Hillary Clinton.   …     As this primary process continues, Hillary could soon have an insurmountable delegate lead and with that, the Democratic nomination,” Clooney declares. “That would then make her the only   in the room. And if ever there was a time for a   that time is now. The Hail, Caesar! actor then jokes about the Apr. 16 event at his home: “The good news is, I’m not cooking. ” Variety reports a donation to the Clinton campaign is not required to enter the contest, although her campaign is requesting $10 donations in the Clooney letter. Those interested in meeting Clinton and her Hollywood friends can enter the contest by texting CLOONEY to 47246. Tickets to the event at Clooney’s Los Angeles home are priced at $33, 400 per person, with money going to the Hillary Victory Fund. The couple will also host a fundraiser for Clinton a day earlier, on Apr. 15, in San Francisco. While the outspoken Clooney used to be one of Hollywood’s most bankable male leads, he has not carried a movie over $100 million since 2000’s The Perfect Storm. His most recent film, The Coen brothers’ Hail, Caesar! was the worst opening ever for a Coen film released on more than 1500 screens. To date, the movie has grossed under $30 million domestically since its Feb. 5 release.