With the announcement Friday afternoon that the FBI was reopening their investigation into the Hillary Clinton email scandal, Clinton’s assistant Huma Abedin may face close scrutiny for the first time by the media. [As Breitbart News reported:  The New York Times reports that the F. B. I. obtained new Hillary Clinton emails after seizing electronic devices from Anthony Weiner and his wife Huma Abedin. The F. B. I. began investigating Weiner after he sent lewd photos to a    girl, after the girl  shared text messages she received from Weiner with the Daily Mail. The FBI announcement comes on the heels of a report yesterday by journalist Paul Sperry, who gave new details about Abedin’s role in the email scandal. Protective detail assigned to guard former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and her two residences complained that her closest aide Huma Abedin often overrode standard security protocols during trips to the Middle East, and personally changed procedures for handling classified information, including highly sensitive intelligence briefs the CIA prepared for the president, newly released FBI documents reveal. The security agents, who were interviewed as witnesses in the FBI’s investigation of Clinton’s use of an unauthorized private email server to send classified information, complained that Abedin had unusual sway over security policies during Clinton’s   tenure at Foggy Bottom. Abedin’s influence in these matters, including the revelation in Sperry’s article that “Abedin possessed much more power” over Clinton’s staff, schedule, and security than other former chiefs of staffs, is especially concerning given the links that Abedin has to the kingdom of Saudi Arabia and to the Muslim World League, a group that Hillary Clinton herself said in 2009 was funding terrorism. Breitbart News was the only media outlet willing to report on Anthony Weiner’s original sexting scandal when it broke. Andrew Breitbart’s willingness to take on stories that the establishment media wouldn’t touch eventually made it impossible for the media to ignore. Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton’s top aide Huma Abedin has also avoided any real scrutiny by the media and has been defended by both Democrats and establishment Republicans, including  Sen. John McCain and Sen. Marco Rubio. But Breitbart News has kept on the story of Huma Abedin. Here is some of the exhaustive reporting Breitbart has done on Huma Abedin: Media coverage of this story has been supporessed owing to pressure from the Democratic Party. For example, Vanity Fair magazine published an article Jan. 6 of this year with the now eerily accurate title, “Is Huma Abedin Hillary Clinton’s Secret Weapon or Her Next Big Problem?” The   attack machine Media Matters for America wasted no time in posting an article with false information and smears in order to protect the Clinton campaign. Hillary Clinton has stated publicly that she helped “start and support” the Media Matters group, and that organization has consistently come to her rescue with misinformation,   and smears that invariably get repeated by the established media. The Vanity Fair article apparently sent shockwaves through the Clinton camp. Any mainstream press coverage of Huma Abedin is rare, and what coverage there is almost universally laudatory. Despite the fawning coverage she has received, there are many unanswered questions about Abedin, especially given Abedin’s complete access to Hillary Clinton, one of the most powerful people in the world, a former Secretary of State and possible future president. As Vanity Fair’s William Cohan writes in his piece: Over the years Huma has served in several positions, with increasingly   titles. She has been Hillary’s “body woman,” her traveling chief of staff, a senior adviser, and a deputy chief of staff when Hillary was secretary of state. Now, based in Brooklyn, she is the   of Hillary’s 2016 presidential campaign. The Vanity Fair piece on the secretive Abedin confirmed a number of facts that have been reported by conservative media for a couple of years but have been twisted and convoluted by the mainstream media. For example, the Vanity Fair article flatly lays out the information that Huma Abedin was an assistant editor at a publication called the Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs from 1996 until 2008. He writes: When (Huma) Abedin was two years old, the family moved to Jidda, Saudi Arabia, where, with the backing of Abdullah Omar Nasseef, then the president of King Abdulaziz University, her father founded the Institute of Muslim Minority Affairs, a think tank, and became the first editor of its Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs, which stated its mission as “shedding light” on minority Muslim communities around the world in the hope of “securing the legitimate rights of these communities. ”  …     It turns out the Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs is an Abedin family business. Huma was an assistant editor there between 1996 and 2008. Her brother, Hassan, 45, is a   editor at the Journal and was a fellow at the Oxford Center for Islamic Studies, where Nasseef is chairman of the board of trustees. Huma’s sister, Heba, 26, is an assistant editor at the Journal. Breitbart News added information this year that shows that the “Abedin family business” is housed in the offices of the Muslim World League. The webpage for the Institute for Muslim Minority Affairs site says how to reach the Journal: “Editorial Correspondence including submission of articles and books for review should be addressed to: Editor, Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs 46 Goodge Street, London WIP 1FJ, U. K. ” The current official Journal website also lists the same 46 Goodge Street address, which is the same exact address listed on the Muslim World League’s London office address. The official website for the Muslim World League’s London office lists its address as 46 Goodge Street. The current day London Online website also lists the Muslim World League office in London and the Journal’s parent organization, Institute of Muslim Minority Affairs, as having the exact same 46 Goodge Street address. A Yelp! listing for the Muslim World League shows the same 46 Goodge Address and a photo of the entrance. Google Maps from 2008 —  the earliest date available —  shows the Muslim Word League London office entrance, which appears to have office space above a pizza restaurant. This direct connection to the Muslim World League and a child organization called the World Arab Muslim Youth Association (WAMY) —  also housed at Goodge Street offices —  is significant due to a 2009 State Department memo which reveals that while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State and Huma Abedin was her top aide, and the Secretary of State’s office was engaged in talks with Saudi Arabia about stopping the Muslim World League from funding terrorism at the same time the “Abedin family business” was operating out of the Muslim World League’s London office. This revelation shows that while Huma Abedin was serving at the highest level of government as Hillary Clinton’s aide and had access to this information, Abedin had a direct connection to a group that was suspected of actively funding groups like   the Taliban, and Hamas, which had not only killed civilians around the world but also U. S. servicemen. The memo, which was originally published by WikiLeaks, was sent on December 30, 2009 from the Secretary of State to the Department of Treasury and ambassadors in several Gulf region countries including Saudi Arabia. The stated goal of the memo is that “all action posts deliver the general talking points” to those countries. The connection to terror funding is also listed in the infamous “missing 28 pages” from a report by the   commission that were kept hidden for years until their release on a Friday afternoon earlier this year. Page 24 of the   report discusses Osama Bin Laden’s   and says in part: According to the FBI, Abdullah Bin Ladin has a number of connections to terrorist organizations. He is the President and Director of the World Arab Muslim Youth Association (WAMY) and the Institute of Islamic and Arabic Science in America. Both organizations are local branches of   organizations (NGOs) based in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. According to the FBI, there is reason to believe that WAMY is “closely associated with the funding and financing of international terrorist activities and in the past has provided logistical support to individuals wishing to to fight in the Afghan War. ” In 1998, the CIA published a paper characterizing WAMY as a NGO that provides funding. logistical support and training with possible connections to the Arab Afghans network, Hamas, Algerian extremists and Philippine militants. Although the 28 pages make no mention of Abedin at all, the information in the 28 pages lays out a timeline of events during the planning and execution of the   terror attack that shows that, at all times, Huma Abedin was working for both Hillary Clinton and the WAMY organization the Institute for Muslim Minority Affairs. These connections become especially disturbing when you consider what Sperry reported yesterday: Another guard assigned to Clinton’s residence in Chappaqua, N. Y. recalled in a February FBI interview that new security procedures for handling delivery of the diplomatic pouch and receiving via fax the highly classified Presidential Daily Brief (PDB) had been “established by Abedin. ” The witness added that Abedin controlled the operations of a secure room known as a SCIF located on the third floor of the residence. In her own April 2016 interview with the FBI, Abedin contended that she “did not know that Clinton had a private server until about a year and a half ago, when it became public knowledge. ” The clintonemail. com server was set up in the basement of the Chappaqua residence. However, another witness told agents that he and another Clinton aide with an IT background built the new server system “at the recommendation of Huma Abedin,” who first broached the idea of an    email server as early as the “fall (of) 2008,” ostensibly after Barack Obama was elected president. With the FBI investigation reopened, it will be interesting to see if the mainstream media finally begins to do their job and ask tough questions about Huma Abedin.