NEW YORK  —   Bill Clinton’s alleged sex assault victims are likely so numerous that “we could fill the entire audience,” stated Kathleen Willey when asked by this reporter if she would hypothetically be willing to attend tomorrow’s presidential debate. [Willey, a White House aide during the Clinton administration who famously accused Bill Clinton of sexual assault, joins accusers Juanita Broaddrick and Paula Jones in commenting on the audience of tomorrow’s debate.  Stated Willey: Most of us are well known and our stories have been repeated several times over the years, but what concerns me the most are the voices of my sisters who are still afraid to come out of the darkness. I have communicated with a number of them and they are still terrified of publicly sharing their experiences with the Clintons. The real story here is not one of our presence in the front row at any of these debates, but the unhindered lust for power that the Clintons have displayed for decades. Hillary Clinton has lied, cheated and stolen our lives from us. People have died in her wake of deceit. We could fill the entire audience. I would like to see the day when these women can step into the light and share their stories of brutality, terror and intimidation without the kind of fear of intimidation and recrimination that we have experienced for far too many years. Regarding whether she would attended the debate if asked, Willey decided, “I would refrain for now. Let her do herself in on her own. ” The issue of Clinton’s alleged mistresses and accusers was put back in the headlines Saturday when Donald Trump threatened on Twitter to bring Gennifer Flowers to the first presidential debate after Trump troll Mark Cuban said he’d sit in the front row. Flowers, who says she had a   year relationship with Clinton, responded promptly on social media, writing, “Hi Donald Trump  …     I’m in your corner. Of course I will see u at the debate! !” After first denying any relationship with Flowers during a 1992 60 Minutes interview, Clinton later admitted to one sexual encounter with her in a 1998 deposition for the Paula Jones lawsuit. On Sunday, both Broaddrick and Jones stated they would attend tomorrow’s presidential debate if they were invited. Meanwhile, the issue of the number of alleged Clinton mistresses and victims has been in the media in recent months. Former Dallas lawyer Dolly Kyle, who says she had a   affair with Clinton, claimed in a recent interview with this reporter that “Billy” Clinton, as she called him, once boasted to her that he had had sex with about 2, 000 women. She described Clinton as a “sex addict” who has some “sick, sick need” to “control women. ” The 2, 000 number is similar to a figure provided by Linda Tripp, a pivotal figure in the Monica Lewinsky scandal. In an exclusive interview on this reporter’s radio show in January, Tripp said it was common knowledge while she worked in the West Wing that Clinton had affairs with “thousands of women. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.