RENO, Nevada  —   Hundreds of Hillary Clinton supporters lined up to hear her deliver a speech about the “ ” and Donald Trump on Thursday afternoon. Few, however, seemed to have any idea what the “ ” actually is. [Breitbart News spoke to over a dozen Hillary Clinton fans outside the Truckee Meadows Community College. None knew exactly what the “ ” is a few had a vague idea that it referred to Republicans, or that Democrats were trying to connect it with Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump.  Most simply had not heard of the “” and some misidentified it completely. (Breitbart covered it here.) They simply did not know what the “ ” was until later, when Hillary Clinton told them, and told them it was bad. (Some were willing to believe in advance that it was bad, merely because they knew she would tell them it was.) The video below shows the interviews in exact chronological order. Only one interview was omitted, at the interviewee’s request, when she was embarrassed that she could not answer the question, and asked Breitbart News to delete the video of her response. The video is below: A local press representative for the Hillary Clinton campaign declined to answer questions about the  . The mood outside was festive, occasionally punctured by protests from about a dozen   Clinton protesters. In her remarks, Hillary Clinton attacked Donald Trump and Breitbart News in particular, attempting to associate both with a “fringe” that includes the “ ” and figures like David Duke of the Ku Klux Klan. “The de facto merger between Breitbart and the Trump Campaign represents a landmark achievement for the ‘’” Clinton claimed, referring to the recent appointment of Breitbart chairman Stephen K. Bannon as CEO of the Trump campaign. (Bannon is on leave from Breitbart until after the election.) “A fringe element has effectively taken over the Republican Party,” she added. The accusation of “extremism” is a frequent refrain for Democrats. In 2011, Sen. Chuck Schumer ( ) was caught on a hot mic telling others that he would begin referring to the Tea Party as “extreme” because “that’s what the caucus instructed me to do the other week. ” Trump responded: Just watched recap of #CrookedHillary‘s speech. Very short and lies. She is the only one  !  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 25, 2016,  Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. His new book, See No Evil: 19 Hard Truths the Left Can’t Handle, is available from Regnery through Amazon. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.