Scandal producers Shonda Rhimes and Betsy Beers produced a   biopic of Hillary Clinton’s life that aired live just moments before the Democratic presidential nominee took the stage at the party’s national convention in Philadelphia Thursday night. [The short film, narrated by actor and Clinton supporter Morgan Freeman, includes a brief biography of the candidate’s mother, Dorothy Rodham, and also features interviews with   first responders, Clinton’s childhood friends, President Obama and former President Bill Clinton.  “It is an honor to provide America with an intimate portrait of Hillary,” Rhimes, who also produces ABC’s Grey’s Anatomy and How to Get Away with Murder, said in a statement. “Everyone already knows the powerhouse. Now, with this piece, everyone will also get to know the person. ” Rhimes is one of Clinton’s biggest Hollywood backers. In March, the   enlisted some of the stars of her television series  —   Ellen Pompeo, Kerry Washington and Viola Davis  —   for an in support of Clinton that aired on ABC. In February, Clinton visited the set of Rhimes’ Scandal and posed for pictures with the show’s cast, including Washington and actor Tony Goldwyn, who spoke at the Democratic National Convention earlier this week. The stars of the series also hosted a fundraiser for Clinton’s campaign in Washington, D. C. in April. Rhimes has also been a vocal critic of Clinton’s chief opponent, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. The most recent season of Scandal featured the character of Hollis Doyle, an unabashedly sexist, xenophobic billionaire oil magnate running for president as a Republican who was not so subtly based on Trump. Rhimes was also among the more than 100 celebrities who joined progressive group MoveOn. org’s “United Against Hate” initiative earlier this week in an effort to prevent Trump from winning the White House in November. Rhimes was not the only   Hollywood producer to create videos for the DNC. Star Wars: The Force Awakens director J. J. Abrams produced an introductory video for First Lady Michelle Obama on the first night of the convention, while Avatar director James Cameron helmed a   climate change warning video that aired at the convention Wednesday night.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum,    