Milo Yiannopoulos attended a   with American Enterprise Institute scholar Christina Hoff Sommers at the University of Minnesota on Wednesday, during which he dispelled the gender pay gap myth, declared   feminists were waging war on   men, and was protested by a group of the misinformed social justice warriors armed with  . Yiannopoulos also shared his opinion on male feminists. [“Male feminism is a sort of disease. It’s a sort of brain disease brought about by I think low   and lack of sex,” Yiannopoulos told a laughing audience.  “There seems to be an undercurrent in the modern progressive movement of men who are so desperate to get laid that they say literally anything,” he explained. “Some of those things can involve demonising their own skin colour, sexuality, and gender simply in order to get plaudits from some of the most awful women on campus. ” “It seems this particular progressive male feminism seems to have popped up only within the last couple of years, and you’ll see it sometimes on the pages of Vox and Buzzfeed and Gawker and Mic and terrible places like that, and it seems mainly a result of a failure in journalism,” he continued. “It’s a failure in the way that we as commentators and interpreters of the world are considering our role. Not as imparters of knowledge, or as people who are supposed to be out there and finding the truth, but rather journalism’s become about virtue signalling, and to too many of my colleagues the primary purpose of their job, what they get up to do in the morning, is to advertise their own moral virtue. ” “Instead of telling us about the world as it really is, instead of telling us about what the problems are out there and the various different approaches to them might be, the function of the majority of journalism, particularly I have to say on the left, appears to be to advertise what nice   people we are and how much we hate sexism and racism and all that kind of thing,” he said. Discussing the topic of false rape reports on campus and how the media fails basic journalistic practices in looking properly into them, Yiannopoulos said: The net result is journalists who don’t really care about the truth but just want to advertise what good people they are, and in very many cases these are men especially the male editors who commission this stuff, the result of this is that fewer women are believed, because of course these stories fall apart. Because the journalist’s primary purpose in writing it wasn’t to tell the truth, wasn’t to find out what actually happened, wasn’t to unearth wrongdoing, wasn’t to punish miscreants, but was rather simply to paint a picture of how he thinks the world ought to look. It’s very dangerous for anyone who actually cares about the truth, It’s very dangerous to any academic enquiry, and it’s cancer to journalism. It seems to be a cancer that’s infected the majority of American journalism. It’s absolutely horrifying, and its apotheosis is the male feminists. The guy who will say anything, no matter how insane, knowingly lying to his readers, and this goes way beyond negligence and into outright mendacity. Shit all over his own gender, and skin colour, and sexuality. Brazenly lie about good decent people, as we saw in the GamerGate controversy which is the greatest professional failure I’ve ever seen in journalism, and for what? To advertise that he’s a nice guy. So when I say that it’s a disease, I don’t mean it lightly, it is the biggest problem in American journalism and I’m willing to bet it’s a significant component in the problems in American academia too.  Yiannopoulos packed the   auditorium on Wednesday and has since moved on to the next dates in his ‘Dangerous Faggot’ tour, having just returned from the Anarchapulco Conference in Mexico and with a talk at the University of Michigan scheduled for Tuesday. Charlie Nash is a regular contributor to Breitbart Tech and former editor of the Squid Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington.